Decentralised Moderation for Interoperable Social Networks:
A Conversation-based Approach for Pleroma and the Fediverse
Vibhor Agarwal1, Aravindh Raman2, Nishanth Sastry 1,
Ahmed M. Abdelmoniem 3, Gareth Tyson4, Ignacio Castro3
1University of Surrey, Guildford, United Kingdom
2Telefonica Research, Barcelona, Spain
3Queen Mary University of London, London, United Kingdom
4Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (GZ), China
{v.agarwal, n.sastry}@surrey.ac.uk, aravindh.raman@telefonica.com,
{ahmed.sayed, i.castro}@qmul.ac.uk, gtyson@ust.hk
Abstract
The recent development of decentralised and interoperable
social networks (such as the “fediverse”) creates new chal-
lenges for content moderators. This is because millions of
posts generated on one server can easily “spread” to another,
even if the recipient server has very different moderation
policies. An obvious solution would be to leverage moder-
ation tools to automatically tag (and filter) posts that contra-
vene moderation policies, e.g. related to toxic speech. Recent
work has exploited the conversational context of a post to im-
prove this automatic tagging, e.g. using the replies to a post
to help classify if it contains toxic speech. This has shown
particular potential in environments with large training sets
that contain complete conversations. This, however, creates
challenges in a decentralised context, as a single conversa-
tion may be fragmented across multiple servers. Thus, each
server only has a partial view of an entire conversation be-
cause conversations are often federated across servers in a
non-synchronized fashion. To address this, we propose a de-
centralised conversation-aware content moderation approach
suitable for the fediverse. Our approach employs a graph deep
learning model (GraphNLI) trained locally on each server.
The model exploits local data to train a model that combines
post and conversational information captured through ran-
dom walks to detect toxicity. We evaluate our approach with
data from Pleroma, a major decentralised and interoperable
micro-blogging network containing 2 million conversations.
Our model effectively detects toxicity on larger instances, ex-
clusively trained using their local post information ( 0.8837
macro-F1). Yet, we show that this approach does not perform
well on smaller instances that do not possess sufficient local
training data. Thus, in cases where a server contains insuf-
ficient data, we strategically retrieve information (posts or
model parameters) from other servers to reconstruct larger
conversations and improve results. With this, we show that
we can attain a macro-F1 of 0.8826. Our approach has con-
siderable scope to improve moderation in decentralised and
interoperable social networks such as Pleroma or Mastodon.
1 Introduction
Network effects and economies of scale favour concentra-
tion (Varian 2019). As a result, the Web has witnessed in-
Copyright © 2024, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
creasing concentration into a few key players (Doan et al.
2022). For social networks, interoperability has been pro-
posed as a remedy (Beck and Moore 2023) and the Digi-
tal Markets Act (DMA) will soon enforce it in the EU (EU
2023; Mahy 2023). We believe this opens new opportunities
and challenges, particularly with regards to content modera-
tion.
To understand these we look into the fediverse, an ecosys-
tem of decentralised, interoperable platforms powered by a
common underlying protocol, ActivityPub (W3C 2018). In
contrast to X (previously, Twitter), Reddit and other cen-
tralised social networks, in the fediverse anyone can cre-
ate an instance of a service by running open-source code
on a server. Users can then sign up with such instances and
use their services. Fediverse users can interact with each
other regardless of the instance they have signed up with
or even the service. For instance, users from an instance in
the micro-blogging Pleroma can interact with users from an-
other Pleroma instance, as well as with users from instances
across other services such as Mastodon (micro-blogging) or
Peertube (video streaming). The (coming) support for Activ-
ityPub by new services such as Threads, 1 may expand this
interoperable ecosystem even further.
Decentralisation and interoperability, however, pose new
challenges. Decentralisation limits the human and data re-
sources required for (semi) automating moderation. Interop-
erability limits the visibility and ability to affect content gen-
erated in a remote instance. In contrast to other volunteer-
moderated communities ( e.g., Reddit) (Birman 2018; Iqbal
et al. 2022), in the fediverse an administrator may need to
handle content originating from a different instance or even
service (e.g. Mastodon posts frequently appear in Pleroma
instances). With toxic content being common in the fedi-
verse (Hassan et al. 2021; Bin Zia et al. 2022), moderation
can be challenging for administrators (Anaobi et al. 2023).
We believe that this is a challenge that further interop-
erability ( e.g., due to Threads supporting ActivityPub or
thanks to DMA) will exacerbate. To study this problem and
identify solutions, we use a comprehensive dataset compris-
ing 713 instances and 16.5 million posts from a large micro-
1https://engineering.fb.com/2023/09/07/culture/threads-inside-
story-metas-newest-social-app/, last accessed 14 Sep 2023.
arXiv:2404.03048v2  [cs.CY]  16 Apr 2024

blogging fediverse service, Pleroma (Bin Zia et al. 2022).
Our main assumption is the usage of ActivityPub and, as
such, our solutions should be amenable to other fediverse
services ( e.g., Mastodon). Our goal is to validate the via-
bility of our approach rather than necessarily advocate for
Pleroma or other fediverse platform to adopt it.
To cope with the limitations in terms of the data that an
instance has available, we take a conversational approach 2.
We capture the conversational context of each post using
GraphNLI (Agarwal et al. 2022), a state-of-the-art graph
learning-based framework. This is in stark contrast to pre-
vious works (Bin Zia et al. 2022; Kurita, Belova, and Anas-
tasopoulos 2019; Risch and Krestel 2020) that look at each
post in isolation. Because of fediverse’s interoperability,
conversations are scattered across instances. We reconstruct
all the conversations in Pleroma and identify 2 million con-
versations with more than two posts. This proved to be a
complex endeavour: we discover that each instance partici-
pating in a conversation can have a different and partial view
of the complete conversation. Indeed, interoperability poses
an additional challenge: moderators may have different par-
tial views of the conversations and therefore, may develop
different perceptions about the content to be moderated. We
find that up to 14 instances participate in the same conver-
sation and that the level of fragmentation increases with the
number of instances. We believe this challenge is inherent to
interoperability.
Then we obtain toxicity scores of each of the posts
in Pleroma conversations from Perspective API. We train
GraphNLI model on our Pleroma conversations for predict-
ing these toxicity scores. We find that large ( >75th per-
centile by the number of posts) and medium instances (be-
tween 25th and 75th percentile by the number of posts) are
self-sufficient: each instance can develop a model trained
just on its own data and achieve a performance similar to
what would be obtained by a centralised platform with ac-
cess to data from all instances. This is a significant improve-
ment over earlier work, which did not exploit conversational
context (Bin Zia et al. 2022).
This strategy fails with smaller instances though ( i.e.,
<25th percentile). Smaller instances do not contain a suffi-
ciently large fragment of the conversation to effectively cap-
ture the surrounding conversational context. We overcome
this with two information-sharing strategies. We first eval-
uate a data-borrowing approach, where small instances ob-
tain all toots from all conversations with at least 5 toots from
the largest instance they federate with. This results in large
improvements with an overall macro-F1 of 0.8258 for small
instances. To limit the sharing of private information, we
also evaluate a model-borrowing approach, where small in-
stances adopt the model trained on large instances and fine-
tune the model parameters. We achieve a further increase in
performance (≈+3% macro-F1).
In summary, we analyse the moderation challenges result-
ing from decentralisation and interoperability. In doing so,
we perform the first-ever dissection of conversations in the
2The code is publicly available at https://github.com/vibhor98/
decentralised-moderation-pleroma, last accessed 23 Mar 2024.
fediverse using data collected from Pleroma, a large fedi-
verse micro-blogging platform. We observe that interoper-
ability results in heavily decentralised conversations and ex-
amine its implications on content moderation. We address
the following Research Questions (RQs):
• RQ1. What do Pleroma conversations look like? We re-
construct all conversations in 713 Pleroma instances in
Section 5 by linking posts and reposts of these posts
across instances. We find over 2 million conversations
that have more than two posts. Interestingly, users see
fragmented conversations because different instances
have different fragments of the same conversation. The
fragmentation of conversations and the likelihood of par-
tial federation increases with the number of instances in-
volved in a conversation. Unfortunately, we also find that
some of these larger conversations are also more likely to
contain toxic content. This leads us to develop strategies
to identify such content (RQ2 and RQ3).
• RQ2. Can instances locally detect toxic content by
exploiting conversational context? Using GraphNLI, a
state-of-the-art graph-based framework (Agarwal et al.
2022, 2023), we find in Section 6.2 that the model
trained on local content succeeds in identifying toxicity
in Medium and Large instances (macro-F1 of0.7675 and
0.8837, respectively). However, we find that this method
does not detect any toxic content at all for small in-
stances, resulting in an F1-score of 0.
• RQ3. Can large instances help small ones in detecting
toxic content? We propose and evaluate strategies where
small instances exchange information with larger ones in
Section 6.3. First, we explore modifications to the current
federation mechanism, to federate the full conversation.
Then we propose a strategy that uses toots or posts from
the largest instance that an instance federates with; we
call this approach toot exchange. Finally, we develop a
more advanced approach wherein a small instance adapts
the model trained by the largest instance it federates with;
we call thismodel exchange. While full conversation fed-
eration does not help the small instances, we find that
both toot and model exchange are extremely effective,
with model exchange improving the macro F1-score on
small instances by up to 28.26%.
2 Background & Related Work
2.1 Pleroma Background
Pleroma is an open-source decentralised and interoperable
micro-blogging server platform where users create their own
social communities hosted on independent servers, aka in-
stances. Each Pleroma instance works similarly to Twitter,
allowing users to register new accounts and share statuses
(aka toots) with their followers — equivalent to a tweet on
Twitter. Users can alsorepeat others’ statuses — equivalent
to retweeting on Twitter.
In contrast to a user on Twitter, a Pleroma user on one
instance can follow users from other instances as well, and
Pleroma federates content from other instances as required

(federation is described further below). This allows decen-
tralised operation and administration — each instance can
function independently of other instances.
Interoperability. Decentralisation ( e.g., fediverse,
IPFS (Trautwein et al. 2022)) has emerged as a way
to reduce the growing concentration in the Internet (Doan
et al. 2022). To further increase competition and reduce con-
centration (Doan et al. 2022; Varian 2019), interoperability
has been proposed (Beck and Moore 2023) and will soon
be mandatory for large (“gateway”) social networks in the
EU thanks to the DMA (EU 2023). While work is underway
to implement interoperability for these large players (Mahy
2023), the W3C’s ActivityPub subscription protocol (W3C
2018) already supports interoperability.
Fediverse. The fediverse refers to the growing group of
ActivityPub compatible, and therefore interconnected, plat-
forms. Pleroma is thus interoperable with other services that
support ActivityPub, including micro-blogging implementa-
tions such as Mastodon (He et al. 2023).
Federation. Fediverse instances are interoperable and can
federate: users registered on one Pleroma instance can fol-
low users registered on another instance from Pleroma (or
any other ActivityPub supporting service). This results in
the instance subscribing to posts performed on the remote
instance, such that they can be pushed across and presented
to local users. We refer to users registered on the same in-
stance as local, and users registered on different instances as
remote. Note that a user registered on their local instance
does not need to register with the remote instance to follow
the remote user. Instead, a user just creates a single account
with their local instance; when the user wants to follow a
user on a remote instance, the user’s local instance performs
the subscription on the user’s behalf.
2.2 Related Work
Decentralised Social Networks. Powered by the Activity-
Pub subscription protocol (W3C 2018), multiple social net-
works have recently emerged and gained popularity, thanks,
in part to the recent acquisition of Twitter by Elon Musk (He
et al. 2023). Decentralisation is challenging and earlier
work has found that strong re-centralisation forces exist in
Mastodon (Raman et al. 2019). Recent work found that,
paradoxically, while most users join the larger instances,
smaller instances attract more active users (He et al. 2023).
The general characterisation of fediverse services has fo-
cused on the content of the posts and found that user be-
haviour does vary across instances (La Cava, Greco, and
Tagarelli 2022b,a). In contrast, we focus on conversations
rather than posts: we reconstruct Pleroma’s conversations
and characterise them. We find that instances frequently
have a different and fragmented view of a conversation due
to the partial federation of the toots that compose it.
Toxicity Detection. Many studies have examined toxic ac-
tivities in social networks, including for Twitter (Ribeiro
et al. 2018; Burnap and Williams 2015; Waseem and Hovy
2016), Reddit (Chandrasekharan et al. 2017; Mohan et al.
2017; Almerekhi, Jansen, and Kwak 2020; Wu et al. 2022;
Yin et al. 2023), and 4Chan (Bernstein et al. 2011; Pa-
pasavva et al. 2020). Deep learning has been commonly
used to classify toxic posts (Badjatiya et al. 2017; Cao, Lee,
and Hoang 2020). We also use a deep learning approach,
however, we explicitly include conversational context. We
use GraphNLI (Agarwal et al. 2022), a recent graph-based
deep learning model. GraphNLI was originally used to in-
fer polarities in the debating platform, Kialo. We repurpose
GraphNLI for toxicity detection in a decentralised environ-
ment.
Moderation in the Fediverse. Several works have recently
addressed the challenges of decentralised moderation. Zig-
nani et al. (2019) explored content warnings from Mastodon,
Hassan et al. (2021) analysed policies in Pleroma, and
Anaobi et al. (2023) measured the heavy moderation load of
instance administrators. Similar to fediverse services, cen-
tralised platforms such as Reddit also rely on volunteer mod-
eration (Waseem and Hovy 2016). Differently from the fe-
diverse, these centralised platforms have no interoperability
with other platforms.
Closest to our work is Bin Zia et al. (2022), which mea-
sured the presence of toxicity in Pleroma and proposed a
model exchange mechanism between instances to improve
local moderation capabilities. Bin Zia et al. (2022) focuses
exclusively on the 30 largest instances and individual posts.
As a result, local models perform poorly (macro-F1 score
less than or equal to 0.6 for the great majority of instances)
and all instances need to exchange models. Our conversa-
tional approach improves those results for all 713 instances,
rather than just the largest 30. The additional conversa-
tional context allows large and medium instances to be self-
sufficient with similar performance to a global model. We
also look into smaller instances. While smaller instances
typically have, by nature, a smaller moderation load (Gehl
and Zulli 2022), we believe that supporting semi-automated
moderation for any player – large or small is useful. Semi-
automated moderation can have potential benefits in the con-
text of Pleroma and the fediverse: 1) federated conversa-
tions might become viral and overwhelm the administrator;
2) some administrators might be time-constrained, e.g., be-
cause they admin multiple instances (Hassan et al. 2021), or
because this is simply a side activity for them; 3) it might
enable new use-cases or allow more people to become ad-
ministrators thanks to the reduced moderation load.
3 Problem Statement
Interoperability and decentralisation of platforms such as
Pleroma give communities the independence to exchange
ideas and content without having to rely on the whims and
gatekeeping of centralized platforms like Twitter. However,
the interoperable nature of fediverse platforms leads to new
questions about the means by which content can be moder-
ated in a decentralised way, without the scale of platforms
like Twitter, or when the full conversation is fragmented
across instances.
Decentralised Moderation. The administration of fediverse
instances is strictly decentralised, i.e. the administrator of an
instance is responsible for formulating and implementing its

Instance A
Remote Follow
Instance B Instance C
Figure 1: Example scenario of a fragmented conversation in
the fediverse due to partial federation: Instance C has full
visibility on the conversation (3 toots) but instances A and B
can only see a fragment of the conversation (2 toots)
own moderation policy. However, administrators have only
limited control of the content of the instance they adminis-
ter, as content generated on one instance can easily spread
to another one thanks to the content federation enabled by
the ActivityPub protocol. With instance administrators typi-
cally operating in a pro bono voluntary fashion, moderation
and other administrative aspects of running an instance can
be rather challenging. While machine learning could in prin-
ciple help to semi-automate this task, the limited amount of
data on each instance constrains this possibility.
Fragmented Conversations. Toots are usually part of a
longer conversation involving other toots from multiple
users. This context is frequently necessary to understand the
meaning and moderate content adequately. However, the in-
teroperable nature of the fediverse can result in a partial fed-
eration where a conversation is fragmented across instances.
Conversations can be fragmented partially due to modera-
tion and blocking by other instances (Hassan et al. 2021).
However, conversations can also be fragmented due to how
federation works (even when no instance is blocked).
For example, suppose a user in instance A posts a toot. If a
user in instance B follows instance A’s user, they will see this
post federated to instance B’s. Now if this user takes part in
a conversation, another user in instance C will see their con-
versation since the user in instance C follows instance B’s
user (cf. Figure 1). However, if the user in instance A does
not follow the user in instance C, the toot of instance C’s user
will not be federated to instance A even though instance A’s
user originated the conversation.
Such partial federation can result in fragmented conver-
sations where different administrators see different parts of
a conversation and therefore different contexts of the con-
tent they have to moderate. For instance, in the above exam-
ple, the administrator of instance A (or a machine learning
model running on their behalf) might need the context from
instance C in order to determine the toxicity of a post and
whether a particular post is hate speech. Further interoper-
ability is likely to reproduce this challenge.
4 Dataset and Methodology
In this section, we approach the problem of reconstruct-
ing a global, centralised view of conversations in the decen-
tralised fediverse, and use the task of determining the tox-
icity of a post to investigate the impact of the fragmented
conversation views on overall conversational understanding.
Here, we give details of the dataset we use, and how we pro-
cess it to construct conversation trees and to attach toxicity
scores.
4.1 Pleroma Dataset
We use the Pleroma data crawled by Bin Zia et al. (2022) 3.
The dataset consists of 713 Pleroma instances with all the
publicly available toots before January 22, 2021. In total,
the dataset contains 16.5 million toots from Pleroma, one
of the largest platforms in the fediverse, by both content and
user counts in the fediverse (Bin Zia et al. 2022). The dataset
represents a complete collection of all available instances at
the time of data collection. Each toot in the dataset includes
information about the author, text content, associated media,
timestamp, number of likes, number of reblogs, and any self-
tagged content warnings.
We enhance this raw dataset in two ways: First, we re-
construct the global conversations, by tracing the threads of
posts and replies across instances. Second, using Google’s
Perspective API (Jigsaw 2023), we assign toxicity scores to
each post in over 2 million conversations.
4.2 Constructing Conversation Trees
A conversation tree is a tree-structure where nodes repre-
sent the toots in conversations and a directed edge from a
child to its parent node denotes that a child node replies to
the parent node (Agarwal et al. 2022). A comment can have
multiple replies, but it can reply to exactly one comment in
Pleroma. Therefore, every node in a conversation can have
only one outgoing edge (replied to) but several incoming
edges (replies), thus forming a tree.
Constructing complete conversations in the fediverse is
challenging as conversations can be federated across multi-
ple instances when users from different instances participate
in the same conversation. Partial federation can easily occur,
as some toots are not federated across all the instances where
a particular conversation is present. This leads tofragmented
conversations. We regard a “complete conversation” as the
conversation tree that includes all toots that span as replies
from the first toot in the tree. An instance has a fragmented
conversation whenever such instance can see less than100%
of the complete conversation.
An obvious question is how such conversations can be re-
constructed. Unfortunately, we find that toot IDs, parent IDs
and conversation IDs are unsuitable for reconstructing con-
versations as these IDs are local to the instance where we
observe them. Thus, we use the toot URL as a unique identi-
fier for toots in the dataset as it is unique across instances. By
mapping local toot IDs and parent IDs with toot URLs, we
construct complete conversation trees which contain toots
from different instances. For each node (i.e., toot), we also
store the information of which instances a toot is federated
3https://github.com/harisbinzia/mastodoner, last accessed 1
Apr 2024.

(a) Histogram of the number of toots in
Pleroma instances.
(b) Histogram of number of conversations per
instance.
(c) Histogram of the number of toots per con-
versation.
Figure 2: Histograms for Pleroma instances.
to in order to study the federation of conversations. Overall,
we identify 7.2 million conversation trees in our dataset.
4.3 Toxicity Labels
To study toxicity and moderation in Pleroma, we use toxicity
scores from Google Jigsaw’s Perspective API (Jigsaw 2023)
as ground truth toxicity scores, following similar studies for
Pleroma (Bin Zia et al. 2022), Mastodon (He et al. 2023),
4chan (Papasavva et al. 2020) and V oat (Papasavva et al.
2021). We set “doNotStore” option to true so that the Per-
spective API does not store the data after scoring them for
toxicity. By extending the original dataset of Bin Zia et al.
(2022) which used toxicity scores for the top 30 instances,
we obtain toxicity scores for all posts in all conversations
across all instances.
The Perspective API provides a toxicity score between
0 and 1, where 1 means the highest toxicity level. Follow-
ing Bin Zia et al. (2022); Papasavva et al. (2020, 2021), we
consider a toot to be toxic if its toxicity score is greater than
0.5 (moderately toxic) to capture a broad range of toxic con-
tent. For completeness, we also experimented with a stricter
toxicity threshold of 0.8 and observed similar proportions
of toxic toots in different Pleroma instances. To ensure the
generality of our approach, we use the actual toxicity scores
as the ground truth and train our models with them for the
regression task of toxicity prediction. This ensures that our
findings apply regardless of the actual threshold that an ad-
ministrator might choose. More generally, we believe that
Perspective labels are just one example and the approach
proposed could be implemented with alternative human-
based labels. Unfortunately, due to the cost-intensive nature
of labelling, we do not have such an alternative.
5 Characterising Conversations (RQ1)
Having constructed a global view of all Pleroma conversa-
tions, we next proceed to characterize them. We first perform
a basic characterization to understand the distribution and
size of the conversations, then investigate the presence of
toxic content, and finally develop an understanding of how
individual instances or users within a conversation see the
conversation, finding that conversation can be fragmented
due to the nature of federation across instances.
5.1 Basic Characterisation
Overall, we identify 7.2 million conversations in 713
Pleroma instances. Figure 2b shows the histogram of the
number of conversations per instance. On average, the num-
ber of conversations per instance is 10, 380.65, while the in-
stance with the largest number of conversations has267, 717
conversations. The average number of users per instance
who have at least one toot either posted or federated is
1609.60, while the maximum number of users per instance
is 9, 824. Next, we look at the number of toots per conversa-
tion. Figure 2c shows the histogram of the number of toots
per conversation. We find that only29% of the conversations
have 2 or more toots. Note that even a single toot is itself a
conversation, consisting of just the root of the conversation
tree. The average (median) number of toots per conversa-
tion is 2.11 (1). If we only consider conversations with more
than two toots, the average (median) conversation has 6.83
(4) toots, whereas the maximum is 1, 952 toots.
5.2 Toxicity in Pleroma Conversations
Presence of toxic content. Figure 3 shows the top 20
Pleroma instances with the number of toxic toots, sorted
in descending order, indicating that a few instances are re-
sponsible for a large proportion of toxic content. For exam-
ple, my.dirtyhobby.xyzcontributes about 23.33% of the toxic
toots. Similarly, plero.antopie.org and social.feathers.link
have 4.7% and 3.3% of the toxic content respectively. Unfor-
tunately, due to the nature of the federation of content, such
content is not constrained solely to a few instances but in-
stead can potentially spread more widely to other instances
whose users may take part in the toxic conversations. Fig-
ure 5a shows the Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF)
of the number of toxic toots per conversation. On average,
the number of toxic toots per conversation is 0.004, while
the maximum number of toxic toots in a conversation can
be as high as 77, which suggests that we should be taking a
conversation-centric view of toxic toots. This motivates our

Figure 3: Top 20 instances with the number of toxic toots,
sorted in descending order.
study in the next section, which focuses on the whole con-
versation context to predict toxic content.
Popularity of toxic content. We next examine the relative
popularity of toxic versus non-toxic content from differ-
ent angles. First, Figure 4a shows that toxic toots have a
higher likelihood of “going viral” across multiple instances:
Whereas most toots (both toxic and non-toxic) are federated
to a handful of instances, the maximum number of instances
a toxic toot is federated to is 13, while the maximum is 8 for
non-toxic toots.
Next, we compare the engagement metrics of toxic versus
non-toxic toots. Figure 4b shows the CDF of toot reblogs
(reshares) for toxic and non-toxic toots. On average, the
number of reblogs that toxic toots receive is 0.556, whereas
non-toxic toots receive 0.271 reblogs. This suggests that
toxic toots are reblogged (re-shared) 2x more than the non-
toxic toots in Pleroma conversations. Figure 4c also shows
the CDF of the number of direct replies to toxic versus non-
toxic toots in Pleroma conversations. The average number of
replies to toxic toots is 1.482, while the average number of
replies to non-toxic toots is 1.354. Thus, toxic toots receive
a higher number of replies than non-toxic toots.
Collectively the above results clearly show that toxic toots
receive higher levels of engagement (reblogs and replies) in
Pleroma. Toxic content may spread faster (i.e., have more
views overall) because they receive a higher number of re-
blogs (2x) than the non-toxic toots.
Where can we find toxic content? Finally, we examine
which kind of conversations are more likely to contain toxic
content, and within such conversations, where are the toxic
toots located.
Figure 5b shows a bar plot of the percentage of conversa-
tions with at least1 toxic toot versus the conversation length.
As the conversation length increases, the likelihood of hav-
ing toxic toots also increases. Thus, the longer a conversa-
tion, the more likely it is to have some toxic statements.
We look deeper and ask where, within those toxic con-
versations, are toxic toots to be found. Figure 5c shows the
bar plot of the number of toxic toots per toot level in a con-
versation tree. We define the “level” of a toot as follows:
The root node in a conversation tree is at level 0; its im-
mediate children are at level 1. We proceed in this fashion
with increasing levels until we reach the leaf nodes. From
the figure, we see that it is more likely to have toxic toots
at the beginning of the conversation near the root node and
other ancestor nodes. This suggests that further down in a
conversation (closer to the leaves), the immediate context or
content of a toot may be insufficient to detect toxicity and
it may require context from further up the conversation tree.
This motivates our adoption in Section 6 of a graph-walk
based approach (Agarwal et al. 2022) that can gather con-
text from farther up the conversation tree to classify toxicity.
5.3 Federation and Fragmented Conversations
Content federation is at the very essence of the fediverse and
allows users to interact with each other regardless of the in-
stance they are signed up with. On average, a Pleroma in-
stance federates with 17.73 instances, while the maximum
number of instances an instance federates with is 118. Fig-
ure 6a shows the CDF of the number of local and feder-
ated toots per conversation in Pleroma instances. Note, local
toots within an instance are the toots which originated in
that instance, while federated toots are the ones which are
federated from other instances. The average number of local
toots per conversation is 0.018, while the average number of
federated toots per conversation is 2.091. Therefore, on av-
erage 99% of the toots in a conversation are federated and
the majority of the toots in a Pleroma instance are federated
as well. Next, we look at how many instances a conversation
is federated to, irrespective of where the conversation has
originated. On average, the number of instances to which
a conversation is federated is 1.009, whereas the maximum
number of instances in a conversation goes up to 14.
Since conversations are composed of toots from different
instances, partial federation is likely to result in fragmented
conversations, as discussed in Section 3. Figure 6b shows
how partial federation impacts the visibility of an instance
on conversations depending on the number of instances in-
volved in such conversation. The boxplot represents the vari-
ation in the percentage of federated toots per conversation
for the instances involved in conversations in Pleroma. The
x-axis shows the number of instances involved in a conver-
sation, and the y-axis is the percentage of toots out of the
complete conversation (100% toots) that are federated to a
given instance. A conversation is fragmented whenever par-
tial federation takes place, i.e., when the number of toots in a
conversation is below 100%. It can be partially due to mod-
eration and blocking of other instances. However, conversa-
tions can also be fragmented due to how federation works.
It can occur when users from different instances take part in

(a) Number of instances toxic and non-toxic
toots are federated to.
(b) Number of toot reblogs for toxic and non-
toxic toots.
(c) Number of direct replies to toxic and non-
toxic toots.
Figure 4: Cumulative Distribution Functions (CDFs) for toxic toots in Pleroma instances.
(a) Number of toxic toots per conversation.
(b) Percentage of conversations with at least
one toxic toot versus the conversation length.
(c) Number of toxic toots per toot level in a
discussion tree. Y-axis is on log-scale.
Figure 5: Characterisation of Toxic Toots in Pleroma conversations.
(a) Number of local and federated toots in
Pleroma instances (log-scale on X-axis).
(b) Box plot with the variation in the percent-
age of federated toots per conversation for the
instances involved in Pleroma conversations.
(c) Bar plot with F1-scores for different types
of Pleroma instances and GraphNLI models.
Figure 6: Conversations in Pleroma and F1-scores for toxicity detection.
a fediverse conversation, as discussed in Section 3. We ob-
serve from Figure 6b that the fragmentation of conversations
and its likelihood increases with the increase in the number
of instances involved in a conversation.
Such partial views of a conversation are likely to hamper
the ability of an individual instance to discover toxic content,
especially since, as detailed above, context from farther up
in a conversation tree is important.

6 Decentralised Toxicity Detection
In Section 5, we have shown that toxicity is common in
Pleroma and that it spreads faster and has more engage-
ment (in terms of reblogs and replies) than non-toxic con-
tent. It is a challenging task to not only monitor a given
instance’s toots but also the federated toots coming from
other instances. In this section, we explore the feasibility of
individual instances being able to protect themselves from
toxic content using automated machine learning-based ap-
proaches. Importantly, Section 5 also showed that context
from farther up in a conversation can potentially be relevant
when labelling a post as toxic or not.
6.1 Does Global Conversational Context Help in
Detecting Toxic Content?
The characterisation in Section 5 suggests that, to infer the
toxicity of a toot, understanding its conversational context
is beneficial. To test whether this holds true in practice, we
adapt GraphNLI (Agarwal et al. 2022), which uses graph
walks to capture the conversational context.
GraphNLI (Agarwal et al. 2022) is a graph-based deep
learning model which uses graph walks to capture the con-
versational context. In contrast to its original purpose to
measure polarity, we adapt the model for regression tasks
to infer toxicity scores. Using our constructed conversation
trees, we first employ biased root-seeking random walks for
each of the nodes in a tree to capture the relevant conver-
sational context. A root-seeking random walk is a random
walk which is biased towards the root as it selects the parent
and other ancestor nodes with a higher probability than the
sibling and child nodes in a conversation tree (Agarwal et al.
2022). As shown earlier, context from farther up in the con-
versation tree may be important for labelling toxic posts. We
input the toots along with the conversational context into the
GraphNLI model for predicting toxicity scores. The model
is trained for 3 epochs with an Adam optimiser.
We compare GraphNLI with the popular transformer-
based BERT (Devlin et al. 2018) that has no conversational
context, i.e., the BERT model exclusively relies on the spe-
cific toot text for which it is inferring the toxicity. To assess
which model performs better, we train both models with the
complete Pleroma dataset. For generality, we model toxicity
detection as a regression task that predicts the toxicity score
that would be assigned by the perspective API for that post.
Then, we convert the predicted scores into a classification
(hate speech or not), based on whether the predicted toxicity
score is greater than or less than the threshold of 0.5, as pre-
viously used in various studies and described in Section 4.3.
In all the models both here and subsequently in this paper,
we split our data into 80:20 ratios for training and testing.
We use a single 24 GB Nvidia Titan RTX GPU for train-
ing and each epoch took about an hour to train GraphNLI
on the entire training set. We use macro-F1 scores (due to
dataset imbalance) along with accuracy to measure the per-
formance of the classification models, and the mean-squared
error (MSE) to assess the regression task. Note that the lower
the MSE loss, the better the performance, whereas in the
case of accuracy and macro-F1, the higher the better.
Model MSE Accuracy macro-F1
BERT 0.0686 0.8487 0.4591
GraphNLI 0.0056 0.9744 0.9846
Table 1: Performance of machine learning models for toxic-
ity detection trained on the complete Pleroma dataset.
Table 1 shows the performance of both models. Our
model with conversational context, GraphNLI, clearly out-
performs the BERT baseline, with an overall MSE of 0.0056
and 0.9846 macro-F1 score.
6.2 Global versus Local Moderation (RQ2)
We term the above model, which uses a centralized global
view of the entire data, as our global model. While the per-
formance here is very robust, it is also infeasible in practice
as individual instances will not have such a global view of
data.
The decentralised moderation that characterises the fedi-
verse implies that any form of administrative task or automa-
tion can only rely on local data. The partial federation and
fragmented conversations discovered in the previous section
may therefore present a barrier to effective automated mod-
els. To test the limitations posed by decentralization, we de-
velop models that can worklocally in each Pleroma instance
using the data available just on that instance, and compare
the results with our global model.
As we expect model performance to vary depending on
the amount of training data available, we divide the training
data of the Pleroma instances depending on the instance size
(i.e., according to the number of toots). We classify instances
as Small, Medium, and Large, depending on whether they
are in the 25th quantile, between 25th and 75th quantile,
or greater than 75th quantile, respectively. Figure 2a shows
the histogram of the number of toots in Pleroma instances.
In the distribution of toots, the 25th quantile is 1, 290 toots,
the 50th quantile is 7, 020 toots, and the 75th quantile is
26, 960 toots; thus large instances are an order of magnitude
larger than the small instances.
Table 2 shows the toxicity detection performance of
GraphNLI for Global and Local models for Pleroma in-
stances of different sizes. We report average results for each
instance type based on the size and find an overall standard
deviation of 0.89. Global-Global means that the model is
trained globally in a centralised manner and inferred glob-
ally as well; thus creating a situation akin to today’s cen-
tralised platforms such as Twitter, which have all the data in
one location, allowing them to train large and accurate mod-
els. In the decentralised version, however, we can have other
combinations: Global-Local refers to global training and lo-
cal inference (i.e., the random walks of GraphNLI have ac-
cess to conversation context from all instances during train-
ing, but during inference, the walks can only use the local
instance, and thus have access to only the local context).
This is more realistic than global training and global infer-
ence, as data exchange across instances only needs to hap-
pen once during training; rather than during inference, which

GraphNLI Small Medium Large
Training-Inference MSE Accuracy macro-F1 MSE Accuracy macro-F1 MSE Accuracy macro-F1
Global-Global 0.0056 0.9744 0.9846 0.0056 0.9744 0.9846 0.0056 0.9744 0.9846
Global-Local 0.0506 0.8726 0.60 0.0461 0.9093 0.5513 0.0502 0.8637 0.6162
Local-Global 0.2781 0.3230 0.0 0.1758 0.4358 0.4081 0.0781 0.6565 0.6557
Local-Local 0.0091 0.9743 0.0 0.0076 0.9729 0.7675 0.0038 0.9731 0.8837
Table 2: Toxicity detection performance of GraphNLI for Global v/s Local models at Pleroma instances of different sizes.
happens for every toot. Similarly, the local-global model in-
volves training using the local instance data and using the
global data (i.e., the conversation across all instances in-
volved) for inference. The local-global model needs global
data for every inference made (i.e., for every new post/toot),
and so is less feasible than the global-local model which uses
global data only during training. However, this mechanism
is shown for completeness. Finally, the local-local model is
the most realistic, as it uses only the local instance for both
training and inference.
Figure 6c shows the F1-scores obtained for all combina-
tions. The global training-global inference model is a single
model representing a centralised equivalent of the decen-
tralised fediverse, only shown here as a benchmark. When
there is local training or local inference, there is per-instance
variation in performance. We show this as separate bar plots
for instances of different sizes – small ( <25th percentile
in number of toots), medium ( >25th percentile and <75th
percentile) and large ( >75th percentile). For the small in-
stances, local training does not work at all; and we are unable
to detect any hate speech (i.e., a toot with toxicity> 0.5). On
the other hand, for medium and large instances, local train-
ing and local inference appear to perform better than variants
involving either global training or global inference; suggest-
ing that local context, when sufficiently rich, is preferable
to global context from farther away on a different instance.
Global training Local inference seems to be the only choice
with macro-F1 of 0.60 for moderating Small instances. But
the performance of the model on Small instances is not good
enough and most importantly, Global training violates the
principles of the decentralised web, which is based on each
instance being as independent as possible. Hence, we fur-
ther investigate how we can improve the local moderation of
Small instances.
6.3 Federation Strategies to Improve Local
Moderation (RQ3)
We demonstrated in the previous section that local moder-
ation is effective for large and medium-sized instances. Un-
fortunately, this strategy fails for Small instances due to the
limited amount of data (and in particular toxic data). While
the focus is usually on the larger instances, ensuring that
smaller ones are viable can be critical to reducing the bar-
rier of entry for new players and promoting the long-term
sustainability of the ecosystem.
We now devise strategies to solve this problem. We ex-
periment with three federation strategies to improve the lo-
cal moderation: (i) Full Conversations: we federates toots
from other instances to complete the fragmented conver-
sations (due to partial federation), thereby increasing the
training data and conversational context for our GraphNLI
model; (ii) Toot Federation: we select the largest instance
that federates with the target instance and then federates all
of the toots in conversations with a length of more than 5.
(iii) Model Sharing: we share the trained toxicity detection
GraphNLI model from the largest federating instance with
the target instance. The target instance then fine-tunes on top
of the already trained model using its local conversations.
Table 3 shows the performance of the GraphNLI model
with Local training and Local inference with different fed-
eration strategies for local content moderation. We observe
that even with full conversations, macro-F1 is still 0 for
Small instances since no toxic toots are predicted correctly
because of small datasets available locally. Toot federation
with the largest federating instance works well with an over-
all accuracy of 0.9678 and 0.8258 macro-F1 score for Small
instances. The model sharing strategy performs the best with
an accuracy of 0.9786 and 0.8826 macro-F1 score. This
represents an improvement of 28.26% in macro-F1 score
over our previous best-performing variant (Global-Local)
for Small instances. Model sharing improves the local mod-
eration of Small instances in a privacy-preserving way since
no actual toots content needs to be shared. However, it re-
quires a communication channel with high bandwidth to
share the weights of deep learning models between Pleroma
instances.
In contrast, the toot federation strategy is feasible through
existing channels between instances, since these instances
continuously federate content among themselves. For in-
stance, an administrator could simply choose to follow a
specific account from a remote instance it is already fed-
erating with to ensure additional toot federation. We also
experiment with these federation strategies on Medium and
Large instances as shown in Table 3. For Medium instances,
the macro-F1 score goes up to 0.8169 for the model-sharing
strategy, which is an improvement of about5%. We find that
there is only a slight improvement for Large instances be-
cause they already gain good performance on toxicity de-
tection through local training only due to the large train-
ing dataset. Therefore, Medium and Large instances may
not have strong incentives for federated moderation and may
choose to deal with moderating toxic content locally. How-
ever, toot federation or model sharing is very beneficial for
small instances. Since the model-sharing strategy performs
the best for small instances, and only requires sharing the
model weights (no text or toots), model-sharing can be the
preferred strategy with better privacy-preserving properties.

Local-Local Small Medium Large
Federation Strategy MSE Accuracy macro-F1 MSE Accuracy macro-F1 MSE Accuracy macro-F1
Full Conversations 0.0230 0.9481 0.0 0.0073 0.9654 0.7696 0.0041 0.9711 0.8826
Toot Federation 0.0063 0.9678 0.8258 0.0067 0.9747 0.8077 0.0040 0.9813 0.8841
Model Sharing 0.0075 0.9786 0.8826 0.0061 0.9773 0.8169 0.0038 0.9839 0.8872
Table 3: Performance of GraphNLI model with different federation strategies for local content moderation of instances of
different sizes.
6.4 Limitations and Ethical Considerations
The data includes user information and public posts. In col-
lecting it, we took an “algorithmic thinking in the public in-
terest” approach (Luscombe, Dick, and Walby 2022). We be-
lieve that our study has large societal benefits that outweigh
potential risks: content moderation remains a challenge. We
believe that research into novel moderation scenarios and
approaches has the potential for large societal benefits that
expand from Pleroma and the fediverse to other platforms,
particularly if they are interoperable. The benefits include:
(i) scrutiny into current moderation practices; ( ii) identifi-
cation of problems; ( iii) potential solutions to help address
them; and (iv) timeliness, as this is a young ecosystem with
very different moderation and interaction mechanisms that
are currently understudied but have a large potential to be-
come mainstream.
We exclusively use publicly accessible information, ad-
hering to well-established ethical protocols for collecting so-
cial data. We obtained Ethics approval from both the home
institution of one of the authors, and independently from
REPHRAIN, UK’s National Research Center for Online
Harms. The authors also declare that they do not have any
competing interests.
We also strive to minimise potential harm (Fiesler et al.
2016) and anticipate minimal risk: ( i) we were careful to
not overload the servers; ( ii) the data collected is publicly
available; ( iii) the data is collected through public APIs;
(iv) we anonymise the data upon collection; ( v) we do not
plan to make data publicly available; ( vi) we ensure that no
data is stored on the Perspective API servers (we choose the
“doNotStore” option4).
7 Conclusions
This paper proposed and evaluated novel moderation so-
lutions for decentralised, interoperable social networks. We
believe this is particularly needed because interoperabil-
ity is likely to increase thanks to regulation (DMA (EU
2023)) and the growing support for ActivityPub. We lever-
age the conversational context of each post with GraphNLI,
a graph-based deep learning framework that makes random
walks on the posts of the conversation. We evaluated our
approaches using a comprehensive dataset of Pleroma (con-
sisting of 713 instances and 16.5 million posts), a large de-
centralised micro-blogging service of the fediverse. We first
4https://support.perspectiveapi.com/s/about-the-api-
faqs?language=en US), last accessed 14 Sep 2023.
reconstructed the 2 million conversations with more than
two posts that exist in our data. We found this to be more
complex than expected as instances participating in the same
conversation might only have a partial view of the entire
conversation. Our conversation-based approach, succeeded
in detecting toxicity in large instances ( 0.8837 macro-F1)
but failed for small ones. We solve this problem via federa-
tion: we evaluate different strategies for sharing information
across instances (toots or models) and achieve the highest
macro-F1 of 0.8826 for model sharing strategy in small in-
stances.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported by AP4L (EP/W032473/1), EU
Horizon Framework grant agreement 101093006 (TaRDIS)
and REPHRAIN’s “DSNMod” and “Fediobservatory”
(EP/V011189/1).
References
Agarwal, V .; Joglekar, S.; Young, A. P.; and Sastry, N.
2022. GraphNLI: A Graph-based Natural Language Infer-
ence Model for Polarity Prediction in Online Debates. In
Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2022, 2729–2737.
Agarwal, V .; Young, A. P.; Joglekar, S.; and Sastry, N. 2023.
A graph-based context-aware model to understand online
conversations. ACM Transactions on the Web, 18(1): 1–27.
Almerekhi, H.; Jansen, B. J.; and Kwak, H. 2020. Investigat-
ing toxicity across multiple Reddit communities, users, and
moderators. In Companion proceedings of the web confer-
ence 2020, 294–298.
Anaobi, I. H.; Raman, A.; Castro, I.; Zia, H. B.; Ibosiola,
D.; and Tyson, G. 2023. Will Admins Cope? Decentralized
Moderation in the Fediverse. In Proceedings of the ACM
Web Conference 2023, 3109–3120.
Badjatiya, P.; Gupta, S.; Gupta, M.; and Varma, V . 2017.
Deep Learning for Hate Speech Detection in Tweets.
In Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on
World Wide Web Companion , WWW ’17 Companion,
759–760. Republic and Canton of Geneva, CHE: Interna-
tional World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee.
ISBN 9781450349147.
Beck, M. D.; and Moore, T. R. 2023. Breaking Up a Digital
Monopoly. Communications of the ACM, 66(6): 38–41.
Bernstein, M.; Monroy-Hern´andez, A.; Harry, D.; Andr´e, P.;
Panovich, K.; and Vargas, G. 2011. 4chan and/b: An Analy-
sis of Anonymity and Ephemerality in a Large Online Com-
munity. In Proceedings of the International AAAI Confer-
ence on Web and Social Media, volume 5.

Bin Zia, H.; Raman, A.; Castro, I.; Hassan Anaobi, I.;
De Cristofaro, E.; Sastry, N.; and Tyson, G. 2022. Toxicity
in the decentralized web and the potential for model shar-
ing. Proceedings of the ACM on Measurement and Analysis
of Computing Systems, 6(2): 1–25.
Birman, I. 2018. Moderation in different communities on
Reddit–A qualitative analysis study.
Burnap, P.; and Williams, M. L. 2015. Cyber hate speech
on twitter: An application of machine classification and sta-
tistical modeling for policy and decision making. Policy &
internet, 7(2): 223–242.
Cao, R.; Lee, R. K.-W.; and Hoang, T.-A. 2020. DeepHate:
Hate Speech Detection via Multi-Faceted Text Representa-
tions. In 12th ACM Conference on Web Science , WebSci
’20, 11–20. New York, NY , USA: Association for Comput-
ing Machinery. ISBN 9781450379892.
Chandrasekharan, E.; Pavalanathan, U.; Srinivasan, A.;
Glynn, A.; Eisenstein, J.; and Gilbert, E. 2017. You can’t
stay here: The efficacy of reddit’s 2015 ban examined
through hate speech. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-
Computer Interaction, 1(CSCW): 1–22.
Devlin, J.; Chang, M.-W.; Lee, K.; and Toutanova, K. 2018.
Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for lan-
guage understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805.
Doan, T. V .; van Rijswijk-Deij, R.; Hohlfeld, O.; and Bajpai,
V . 2022. An empirical view on consolidation of the web.
ACM Transactions on Internet Technology (TOIT), 22(3): 1–
30.
EU. 2023. Q&A: DMA: Ensuring fair and open digital mar-
kets.
Fiesler, C.; Wisniewski, P.; Pater, J.; and Andalibi, N. 2016.
Exploring ethics and obligations for studying digital com-
munities. In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM International
Conference on Supporting Group Work, 457–460.
Gehl, R. W.; and Zulli, D. 2022. The digital covenant: non-
centralized platform governance on the mastodon social net-
work. Information, Communication & Society, 1–17.
Hassan, A. I.; Raman, A.; Castro, I.; Zia, H. B.; De Cristo-
faro, E.; Sastry, N.; and Tyson, G. 2021. Exploring content
moderation in the decentralised web: The pleroma case. In
Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on emerg-
ing Networking EXperiments and Technologies, 328–335.
He, J.; Zia, H. B.; Castro, I.; Raman, A.; Sastry, N.; and
Tyson, G. 2023. Flocking to mastodon: Tracking the great
twitter migration. In Proceedings of the 2023 ACM on In-
ternet Measurement Conference, 111–123.
Iqbal, W.; Arshad, M. H.; Tyson, G.; and Castro, I. 2022.
Exploring crowdsourced content moderation through lens of
reddit during covid-19. In Proceedings of the 17th Asian
Internet Engineering Conference, 26–35.
Jigsaw, G. 2023. Perspective API. https://www.
perspectiveapi.com/. Accessed: 2024-04-08.
Kurita, K.; Belova, A.; and Anastasopoulos, A. 2019. To-
wards robust toxic content classification. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1912.06872.
La Cava, L.; Greco, S.; and Tagarelli, A. 2022a. Information
consumption and boundary spanning in decentralized online
social networks: the case of mastodon users. Online Social
Networks and Media, 30: 100220.
La Cava, L.; Greco, S.; and Tagarelli, A. 2022b. Net-
work analysis of the information consumption-production
dichotomy in mastodon user behaviors. In Proceedings of
the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Me-
dia, volume 16, 1378–1382.
Luscombe, A.; Dick, K.; and Walby, K. 2022. Algorithmic
thinking in the public interest: navigating technical, legal,
and ethical hurdles to web scraping in the social sciences.
Quality & Quantity, 56(3): 1023–1044.
Mahy, R. 2023. More Instant Messaging Interoperability
(MIMI) message content. Internet-Draft draft-ietf-mimi-
content-00, Internet Engineering Task Force. Work in
Progress.
Mohan, S.; Guha, A.; Harris, M.; Popowich, F.; Schuster,
A.; and Priebe, C. 2017. The impact of toxic language on
the health of reddit communities. In Canadian Conference
on Artificial Intelligence, 51–56. Springer.
Papasavva, A.; Blackburn, J.; Stringhini, G.; Zannettou, S.;
and Cristofaro, E. D. 2021. “Is it a qoincidence?”: An ex-
ploratory study of QAnon on V oat. In Proceedings of the
Web Conference 2021, 460–471.
Papasavva, A.; Zannettou, S.; De Cristofaro, E.; Stringhini,
G.; and Blackburn, J. 2020. Raiders of the lost kek: 3.5
years of augmented 4chan posts from the politically incor-
rect board. In Proceedings of the International AAAI Con-
ference on Web and Social Media, volume 14, 885–894.
Raman, A.; Joglekar, S.; Cristofaro, E. D.; Sastry, N.; and
Tyson, G. 2019. Challenges in the decentralised web: The
mastodon case. In Proceedings of the internet measurement
conference, 217–229.
Ribeiro, M. H.; Calais, P. H.; Santos, Y . A.; Almeida, V . A.;
and Meira Jr, W. 2018. Characterizing and detecting hateful
users on twitter. In Twelfth international AAAI conference
on web and social media.
Risch, J.; and Krestel, R. 2020. Toxic comment detection
in online discussions. Deep learning-based approaches for
sentiment analysis, 85–109.
Trautwein, D.; Raman, A.; Tyson, G.; Castro, I.; Scott, W.;
Schubotz, M.; Gipp, B.; and Psaras, Y . 2022. Design and
evaluation of IPFS: a storage layer for the decentralized web.
In Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM 2022 Conference ,
SIGCOMM ’22, 739–752. New York, NY , USA: Associa-
tion for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781450394208.
Varian, H. R. 2019. Recent Trends in Concentration, Com-
petition, and Entry. Antitrust Law Journal, 82(3): 807–834.
W3C. 2018. ActivityPub W3C Recommendation. https:
//www.w3.org/TR/activitypub/. Accessed: 2024-04-08.
Waseem, Z.; and Hovy, D. 2016. Hateful symbols or hate-
ful people? predictive features for hate speech detection on
twitter. In Proceedings of the NAACL student research work-
shop, 88–93.

Wu, Q.; Williams, L. K.; Simpson, E.; and Semaan, B.
2022. Conversations About Crime: Re-Enforcing and Fight-
ing Against Platformed Racism on Reddit. Proceedings of
the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction , 6(CSCW1): 1–
38.
Yin, W.; Agarwal, V .; Jiang, A.; Zubiaga, A.; and Sastry, N.
2023. AnnoBERT: effectively representing multiple anno-
tators’ label choices to improve hate speech detection. In
Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web
and Social Media, volume 17, 902–913.
Zignani, M.; Quadri, C.; Galdeman, A.; Gaito, S.; and Rossi,
G. P. 2019. Mastodon content warnings: Inappropriate con-
tents in a microblogging platform. In Proceedings of the
International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media ,
volume 13, 639–645.
8 Paper Checklist
1. For most authors...
(a) Would answering this research question advance sci-
ence without violating social contracts, such as violat-
ing privacy norms, perpetuating unfair profiling, exac-
erbating the socio-economic divide, or implying disre-
spect to societies or cultures? Yes, we have discussed
about the ethical considerations in Sections 4 and 6.
(b) Do your main claims in the abstract and introduction
accurately reflect the paper’s contributions and scope?
Yes, we have described the main findings and contri-
butions of this paper in the abstract and introduction.
(c) Do you clarify how the proposed methodological ap-
proach is appropriate for the claims made? Yes, we
have discussed it in in Section 4.
(d) Do you clarify what are possible artifacts in the data
used, given population-specific distributions? Yes, we
have discussed it in Section 4.
(e) Did you describe the limitations of your work? Yes,
we have described in Sections 6.3 and 7.
(f) Did you discuss any potential negative societal im-
pacts of your work? Yes, we have discussed in Section
6.
(g) Did you discuss any potential misuse of your work?
Yes, please check Section 6.
(h) Did you describe steps taken to prevent or mitigate po-
tential negative outcomes of the research, such as data
and model documentation, data anonymisation, re-
sponsible release, access control, and the reproducibil-
ity of findings? Yes, we have discussed in Section 4 for
data and others in Section 6.
(i) Have you read the ethics review guidelines and en-
sured that your paper conforms to them? Yes
2. Additionally, if your study involves hypotheses testing...
(a) Did you clearly state the assumptions underlying all
theoretical results? NA
(b) Have you provided justifications for all theoretical re-
sults? NA
(c) Did you discuss competing hypotheses or theories that
might challenge or complement your theoretical re-
sults? NA
(d) Have you considered alternative mechanisms or expla-
nations that might account for the same outcomes ob-
served in your study? NA
(e) Did you address potential biases or limitations in your
theoretical framework? NA
(f) Have you related your theoretical results to the existing
literature in social science? NA
(g) Did you discuss the implications of your theoretical
results for policy, practice, or further research in the
social science domain? NA
3. Additionally, if you are including theoretical proofs...
(a) Did you state the full set of assumptions of all theoret-
ical results? NA
(b) Did you include complete proofs of all theoretical re-
sults? NA
4. Additionally, if you ran machine learning experiments...
(a) Did you include the code, data, and instructions
needed to reproduce the main experimental results (ei-
ther in the supplemental material or as a URL)? Yes,
we have added all the relevant details for reproducibil-
ity or further research. We will make our code publicly
available upon the paper’s acceptance. We do not in-
tend to make the data available due to privacy reasons.
(b) Did you specify all the training details (e.g., data splits,
hyperparameters, how they were chosen)? Yes, in Sec-
tion 6.
(c) Did you report error bars (e.g., with respect to the ran-
dom seed after running experiments multiple times)?
Yes, we report the average results and standard devia-
tion in Section 6.2.
(d) Did you include the total amount of compute and the
type of resources used (e.g., type of GPUs, internal
cluster, or cloud provider)? Yes in Section 6.1.
(e) Do you justify how the proposed evaluation is suffi-
cient and appropriate to the claims made? Yes, we have
discussed this in Section 4.
(f) Do you discuss what is “the cost“ of misclassification
and fault (in)tolerance? Yes, we have discussed this in
results in Section 6.
5. Additionally, if you are using existing assets (e.g., code,
data, models) or curating/releasing new assets...
(a) If your work uses existing assets, did you cite the
creators? Yes, we have cited the paper proposing the
dataset.
(b) Did you mention the license of the assets? NA
(c) Did you include any new assets in the supplemental
material or as a URL? NA
(d) Did you discuss whether and how consent was ob-
tained from people whose data you’re using/curating?
Yes, we have discussed it in Section 6.

(e) Did you discuss whether the data you are using/curat-
ing contains personally identifiable information or of-
fensive content? Yes, we have discussed it in Section
4.
(f) If you are curating or releasing new datasets, did you
discuss how you intend to make your datasets FAIR
(see ?)? NA
(g) If you are curating or releasing new datasets, did you
create a Datasheet for the Dataset (see ?)? NA
6. Additionally, if you used crowdsourcing or conducted re-
search with human subjects...
(a) Did you include the full text of instructions given to
participants and screenshots? NA
(b) Did you describe any potential participant risks, with
mentions of Institutional Review Board (IRB) ap-
provals? NA
(c) Did you include the estimated hourly wage paid to
participants and the total amount spent on participant
compensation? NA
(d) Did you discuss how data is stored, shared, and dei-
dentified? NA