Mesh Messaging in Large-scale Protests:
Breaking Bridgefy
Martin R. Albrecht, Jorge Blasco, Rikke Bjerg Jensen, and Lenka Marekov´ a
Royal Holloway, University of London
{martin.albrecht,jorge.blascoalis,rikke.jensen,lenka.marekova}@rhul.ac.uk
Abstract. Mesh messaging applications allow users in relative proximity
to communicate without the Internet. The most viable oﬀering in this
space, Bridgefy, has recently seen increased uptake in areas experiencing
large-scale protests (Hong Kong, India, Iran, US, Zimbabwe, Belarus),
suggesting its use in these protests. It is also being promoted as a com-
munication tool for use in such situations by its developers and others. In
this work, we report on a security analysis of Bridgefy. Our results show
that Bridgefy, as analysed, permitted its users to be tracked, oﬀered no
authenticity, no eﬀective conﬁdentiality protections and lacked resilience
against adversarially crafted messages. We veriﬁed these vulnerabilities by
demonstrating a series of practical attacks on Bridgefy. Thus, if protesters
relied on Bridgefy, an adversary could produce social graphs about them,
read their messages, impersonate anyone to anyone and shut down the
entire network with a single maliciously crafted message.
Keywords: Mesh messaging · Bridgefy · Security analysis.
1 Introduction
Mesh messaging applications rely on wireless technologies such as Bluetooth Low
Energy (BLE) to create communication networks that do not require Internet
connectivity. These can be useful in scenarios where the cellular network may
simply be overloaded, e.g. during mass gatherings, or when governments impose
restrictions on Internet usage, up to a full blackout, to suppress civil unrest.
While the functionality requirements of such networks may be the same in both
of these scenarios – delivering messages from A to B – the security requirements
for their users change dramatically.
In September 2019, Forbes reported “Hong Kong Protestors Using Mesh
Messaging App China Can’t Block: Usage Up 3685%” [ 46] in reference to an
increase in downloads of a mesh messaging application, Bridgefy [ 1], in Hong
Kong. Bridgefy is both an application and a platform for developers to create
their own mesh network applications. 1 It uses BLE or Bluetooth Classic and is
designed for use cases such as “music festivals, sports stadiums, rural commu-
nities, natural disasters, traveling abroad”, as given by its Google Play store
1 As we discuss in Section 2.4, alternatives to Bridgefy are scarce, making it the
predominant example of such an application/framework.

description [20]. Other use cases mentioned on its webpage are ad distribution
(including “before/during/after natural disasters” to “capitalize on those markets
before anybody else” [ 1]) and turn-based games. The Bridgefy application has
crossed 1.7 million downloads as of August 2020 [58].
Though it was advertised as “safe” [ 20] and “private” [ 18] and its creators
claimed it was secured by end-to-end encryption [ 46,52,68], none of the aforemen-
tioned use cases can be considered as taking place in adversarial environments,
such as situations of civil unrest where attempts to subvert the application’s
security are not merely possible, but to be expected, and where such attacks
can have harsh consequences for its users. Despite this, the Bridgefy developers
advertised the application for such scenarios [ 46,72,74,75] and media reports
suggest the application is indeed relied upon.
Hong Kong International news reports of Bridgefy being used in anti-extradition
law protests in Hong Kong began around September 2019 [ 60,82,46,17], reporting
a spike in downloads that was attributed to slow mobile Internet speeds caused
by mass gatherings of protesters [ 22]. Around the same time, Bridgefy’s CEO
reported more than 60,000 installations of the application in a period of seven
days, mostly from Hong Kong [ 60]. However, a Hong Kong based report avail-
able in English [ 15] gave a mixed evaluation of these claims: in the midst of a
demonstration, not many protesters appeared to be using Bridgefy. The same
report also attributes the spike in Bridgefy downloads to a DDoS attack against
other popular communication means used in these protests: Telegram and the
Reddit-like forum LIHKG.
India The next reports to appear centred on the Citizenship Amendment Act
protests in India [10] that occurred in December 2019. Here the rise in downloads
was attributed to an Internet shutdown occurring during the same period [ 48,64].
It appears that the media narrative about Bridgefy’s use in Hong Kong might
have had an eﬀect: “So, Mascarenhas and 15 organisers of the street protest
decided to take a leaf out of the Hong Kong protesters’ book and downloaded
the Bridgefy app” [ 55]. The Bridgefy developers reported continued adoption in
summer 2020 [76].
Iran While press reports from Iran remain scarce, there is evidence to suggest
that some people are trying to use Bridgefy during Internet shutdowns and
restrictions: the rise of customer support queries coming from Iran and a claim
by the Bridgefy CEO that it is being distributed via USB devices [49].
Lebanon Bridgefy now appears among recommended applications to use during
an Internet shutdown, e.g. in the list compiled by a Lebanese NGO during the
October 2019 Lebanon protests [63]. A media report suggests adoption [68].
US The Bridgefy developers reported uptake of Bridgefy during the Black Lives
Matter protests across the US [ 77,75]. It is promoted for use in these protests by
the developers and others on social media [69,75,70].
Zimbabwe Media and social media reports advertised Bridgefy as a tool to counter
a government-mandated Internet shutdown [50,47] in summer 2020. The Bridgefy
developers reported an uptick in adoption [78].
Belarus Social media posts and the Bridgefy developers suggest adoption in light
of a government-mandated Internet shutdown [79].

Thailand Social media posts encouraged student protesters to install the Bridgefy
application during August 2020 [71].
1.1 Contributions
We reverse engineered Bridgefy’s messaging platform, giving an overview in
Section 3, and in Section 4 report several vulnerabilities voiding both the security
claims made by the Bridgefy developers and the security goals arising from its use
in large-scale protests. In particular, we describe various avenues for tracking users
of the Bridgefy application and for building social graphs of their interactions both
in real time and after the fact. We then use the fact that Bridgefy implemented
no eﬀective authentication mechanism between users (nor a state machine)
to impersonate arbitrary users. This attack is easily extended to an attacker-
in-the-middle (MITM) attack for subverting public-key encryption. We also
present variants of Bleichenbacher’s attack [12] which break conﬁdentiality using
≈ 217 chosen ciphertexts. Our variants exploit the composition of PKCS#1 v1.5
encryption and Gzip compression in Bridgefy. Moreover, we utilise compression to
undermine the advertised resilience of Bridgefy: using a single message “zip bomb”
we could completely disable the mesh network, since clients would forward any
payload before parsing it which then caused them to hang until a reinstallation
of the application.
Overall, we conclude that using Bridgefy, as available prior to our work,
represented a signiﬁcant risk to participants of protests. In October 2020 and
in response to this work, the Bridgefy developers published a revision of their
framework and application adopting the Signal protocol. We discuss our ﬁndings
and report on the disclosure process in Section 5.
2 Preliminaries
We denote concatenation of strings or bytes by ||. Strings of byte values are
written in hexadecimal and preﬁxed with 0x, in big-endian order.
We analysed the Bridgefy apk version 2.1.28 dated January 2020 and available
in the Google Play store. It includes the Bridgefy SDK version 1.0.6. In what
follows, when we write “Bridgefy” we mean this apk and SDK versions, unless
explicitly stated otherwise. As stated above, the Bridgefy developers released an
update of both their apk and their SDK in response to a preliminary version
of this work and our analysis does not apply as is to these updated versions
(cf. Section 5).
2.1 Reverse engineering
Since the Bridgefy source code was not available, we decompiled the apk to
(obfuscated) Java classes using Jadx [ 62]. The initial deobfuscation was done
automatically by Jadx, with the remaining classes and methods being done by
hand using artefacts left in the code and by inspecting the application’s execution.

This inspection was performed using Frida, a dynamic instrumentation
toolkit [28], which allows for scripts to be injected into running processes, essen-
tially treating them as black boxes but enabling a variety of operations on them.
In the context of Android applications written in Java, these include tracing class
instances and hooking speciﬁc functions to monitor their inputs/outputs or to
modify their behaviour during runtime.
2.2 Primitives used
Message encoding To encapsulate Bluetooth messages and their metadata,
Bridgefy uses MessagePack [29], a binary serialisation format that is more compact
than and advertised as an alternative to JSON.
It is then compressed using Gzip [40], which utilises the widely-used DEFLATE
compressed data format [ 39]. The standard implementation found in the java.
util.zip library is used in the application. A Gzip ﬁle begins with a 10-byte
header, which consists of a ﬁxed preﬁx 0x1f8b08 followed by a ﬂags byte and six
additional bytes which are usually set to 0. Depending on which ﬂags are set,
optional ﬁelds such as a comment ﬁeld are placed between the header and the
actual DEFLATE payload. A trailer at the end of the Gzip ﬁle consists of two
4-byte ﬁelds: a CRC32 and the length, both over the uncompressed data.
RSA PKCS#1 v1.5 Bridgefy uses the (now deprecated) PKCS#1 v1.5 [ 41]
standard. This standard deﬁnes a method of using RSA encryption, in particular
specifying how the plaintext should be padded before being encrypted. The
format of the padded data that will be encrypted is 0x0002|| <random non-zero
bytes>|| 0x00|| <message>. If the size of the RSA modulus and hence the size
of the encryption block is k bytes, then the maximum length of the message is
k− 11 bytes to allow for at least 8 bytes of padding.
This padding format enables a well-known attack by Bleichenbacher [ 12] (for
variants/improvements of Bleichenbacher’s attack see e.g. [45,7,6,14]). The attack
requires a padding oracle, i.e. the ability to obtain an answer to whether a given
ciphertext decrypts to something that conforms to the padding format. Sending
some number of ciphertexts, each chosen based on previous oracle responses,
leads to full plaintext recovery. For RSA with k = 128, the number of chosen
ciphertexts required has been shown to be between 2 12 and 216 [16].
In more detail, let c be the target ciphertext, n the public modulus, and ( e, d)
the public and private exponents, respectively. We have pad(m) = cd mod n
for the target message m. The chosen ciphertexts will be of the form c∗ = se· c
mod n for some s. If c∗ has correct padding, we know the ﬁrst two bytes of
s· pad(m), and hence a range for its possible values. The attack thus ﬁrst ﬁnds
small values of s which result in a positive answer from the oracle and for each
of them computes a set of ranges for the value of pad(m). Once there is only one
possible range, larger values of s are tried in order to narrow this range down to
only one value, which is the original message.

2.3 Related work
Secure messaging Message layer security has received renewed attention
in the last decade, with an eﬀort to standardise a protocol – simply dubbed
Messaging Layer Security (MLS) – now underway by the IETF [ 67], with several
academic works proposing solutions or analysing security [ 23,5,4]. The use of
secure messaging by “high-risk users” is considered in [ 26,34]. In particular,
those works analyse interviews with human rights activists and secure messaging
application developers to establish common and diverging concerns.
Compression in security The ﬁrst compression side channels in the context of
encryption were described by [44], based on the observation that the compression
rate can reveal information about the plaintext. Since then, there have been
practical attacks exploiting the compression rate “leakage” in TLS and HTTP,
dubbed CRIME [25] and BREACH [32], which enabled the recovery of HTTP
cookies and contents, respectively. Similarly, [31] uses Gzip as a format oracle in a
CCA attack. Beyond cryptography, compression has also been utilised for denial
of service attacks in the form of so-called “zip bombs” [ 27], where an attacker
prepares a compressed payload that decompresses to a massive message.
Mesh networking security Wireless mesh networks have a long history, but
until recently they have been developed mainly in the context of improving
or expanding Wi-Fi connectivity via various ad hoc routing protocols, where
the mesh usually does not include client devices. Flood-based networks using
Bluetooth started gaining traction with the introduction of BLE, which optimises
for low power and low cost, and which has been part of the core speciﬁcation [ 13]
since Bluetooth 4.0. BLE hardware is integrated in all current major smartphone
brands, and the speciﬁcation has native support in all common operating systems.
Previous work on the security analysis of Bluetooth focused on ﬁnding vulner-
abilities in the pairing process or showing the inadequacy of its security modes,
some of which have been ﬁxed in later versions of the speciﬁcation (see [ 24,35]
for surveys of attacks focusing on the classic version of Bluetooth). As a more
recent addition, BLE has not received as much comprehensive analysis, but
general as well as IoT-focused attacks exist [ 57,42,81,61]. Research on BLE-based
tracking has looked into the usage of unique identiﬁers by applications and IoT
devices [ 83,9]. The literature on security in the context of BLE-based mesh
networks is scarce, though the Bluetooth Mesh Proﬁle [ 59] developed by the
Bluetooth SIG is now beginning to be studied [2,3].
2.4 Alternative mesh applications
We list various alternative chat applications that target scenarios where Internet
connectivity is lacking, in particular paying attention to their potential use in a
protest setting.

FireChat FireChat [ 53] was a mobile application for secure wireless mesh
networking meant for communication without an Internet connection. Though it
was not built for protests, it became the tool of choice in various demonstrations
since 2014, e.g. in Iraq, Hong Kong and Taiwan [ 8,11,43], and since then was
also promoted as such by the creators of the application. However, it had not
received any updates in 2019 and as of April 2020, it is no longer available on
the Google Play store and its webpage has been removed, so it appears that its
development has been discontinued.
BLE Mesh Networking Bluetooth itself provides a speciﬁcation for building
mesh networks based on Bluetooth Low Energy that is referred to as the Bluetooth
Mesh Proﬁle [59]. While it deﬁnes a robust model for implementing a ﬂood-based
network for up to 32,000 participating nodes, its focus is not on messaging but
rather connectivity of low-power IoT devices within smart homes or smart cities.
As a result, it is more suitable for networks that are managed centrally and
whose topology is stable over time, which is the opposite of the unpredictable and
always-changing ﬂow of a crowd during a mass protest. Further, it makes heavy
use of the advertising bearer (a feature not widely available in smartphones),
which imposes constraints on the bandwidth of the network – messages can have
a maximum size of 384 bytes, and nodes are advised to not transmit more than
100 messages in any 10 second window. The proﬁle makes use of cryptography for
securing the network from outside observers as well as from outside interference,
but it does expect participating nodes to be benign, which cannot be assumed in
the messaging setting. From within the network, a malicious node can not only
observe but also impersonate other nodes and deny them service.
HypeLabs The Hype SDK oﬀered by HypeLabs [ 38] sets out a similar goal
as Bridgefy, which is to oﬀer secure mesh networks for a variety of purposes
when there is no Internet connection. Besides Bluetooth, it also utilises Wi-
Fi, and supports a variety of platforms. Among its use cases, the Hype SDK
whitepaper [37] lists connectivity between IoT devices, social networking and
messaging, distributed storage as well as connectivity during catastrophes and
emergency broadcasting. While an example chat application is available on Google
Play (with only 100+ downloads), HypeLabs does not oﬀer the end-user solutions
for those use cases themselves, merely oﬀering the SDK as a paid product for
developers. There is no information available on what applications are using the
SDK, if any.
Briar Briar [56] describes itself as “secure messaging, anywhere” [ 56] and is
referenced in online discussions on the use of mesh networking applications
in protests [ 51]. However, Briar does not realise a mesh network. Instead it
opens point-to-point sockets over a Bluetooth Classic (as opposed to Low Energy)
channel to nearby nodes. Its reach is thus limited to one hop unless users manually
forward messages.

Serval Serval Mesh [30] is an Android application implementing a mesh network
using Wi-Fi that sets its goal as enabling communication in places which lack
infrastructure. Originally developed for natural disasters, the project includes
special hardware Mesh Extenders that are supposed to enhance coverage. While
the application is available for download, it cannot be accessed from Google Play
because it targets an old version of Android to allow it to run on older devices
such as the ones primarily used in rural communities. Work on the project is still
ongoing, as it is not ready for deployment at scale. Hence its utility in large-scale
protests where access to technology itself is not a barrier is currently limited.
Subnodes The use of additional hardware devices enables a diﬀerent approach to
maintaining connectivity, which is taken by the open source project Subnodes [66].
It allows local area wireless networks to be set up on a Raspberry Pi, which then
acts as a web server that can provide e.g. a chat room. Multiple devices can be
connected in a mesh using the BATMAN routing protocol [ 54], which is meant
for dynamic and unreliable networks. However, setting up and operating such a
network requires technical knowledge. In the setting of a protest, even carrying
the hardware device for one of the network’s access points could put the operator
at risk.
3 Bridgefy architecture
In this section, we give an overview of the Bridgefy messaging architecture.
The key feature of Bridgefy is that it exchanges data using Bluetooth when an
Internet connection is not available. The application can send the following kinds
of messages:
– one-to-one messages between two parties
• sent over the Internet if both parties are online,
• sent directly via Bluetooth if the parties are in physical range, or
• sent over the Bluetooth mesh network, and
– Bluetooth broadcast messages that anyone can read in a special “Broadcast
mode” room.
Note that the Bluetooth messages are handled separately from the ones ex-
changed over the Internet using the Bridgefy server, i.e. there is no support for
communication between one user who is on the Internet and one who is on the
mesh network.
3.1 Bluetooth messages
Bridgefy supports connections over both BLE and Bluetooth Classic, but the
latter is a legacy option for devices without BLE support, so we focus on BLE.
How the Generic Attribute Proﬁle (GATT) protocol is conﬁgured is not relevant
for our analysis, so we only consider message processing starting from and up to

characteristic read and write requests. BLE packet data is received as an array
of bytes, which is parsed according to the MessagePack format and processed
further based on message type. At the topmost level, all messages are represented
as a BleEntity which has a given entity type et. Table 1 matches the entity type
to the type of its content ct and the class that implements it. Details of all classes
representing messages can be found in Figures 6, 8, 7 and 9 in Appendix A.
Table 1: Entity types.
BleEntity types
et content class for ct
0 handshake BleHandshake
1 direct message BleEntityContent
3 mesh message ForwardTransaction
AppEntity types
et content extending class
0 encrypted handshake AppEntityHandShake
1 any message AppEntityMessage
4 receipt AppEntitySignal
Encryption scheme One-to-one Bluetooth (mesh and direct) messages in Bridgefy,
represented as MessagePacks, are ﬁrst compressed using Gzip and then encrypted
using RSA with PKCS#1 v1.5 padding. The key size is 2048 bits and the input is
split into blocks of size up to 245 bytes and encrypted one-by-one in an ECB-like
fashion using Java SE’s “RSA/ECB/PKCS1Padding”, producing output blocks
of size 256 bytes. Decryption errors do not produce a user or network visible
direct error message.
Direct messages Messages sent to a user who is in direct Bluetooth range have
et = 1 and hence the content ct is of type BleEntityContent. Upon reception, its
payload is decrypted, decompressed and then used to construct the content of a
Message object. Note that the receiver does not parse the sender ID from the
message itself. Instead, it sets the sender to be the user ID which corresponds to
the device from which it received the message. This link between user IDs and
Bluetooth devices is determined during the initial handshake that we describe in
Section 3.2.
The content of the Message object is parsed into an AppEntity, which also
contains an entity type et that determines the ﬁnal class of the message. A
direct message has et = 1 here as well, so it is parsed as an AppEntityMessage.
Afterwards, a delivery receipt for the message that was received is sent and the
message is displayed to the user. Receipts take the format of AppEntitySignal: one
is sent when a message is delivered as described above, and another one when
the user views the chat containing the message.

Mesh messages Bridgefy implements a managed ﬂood-based mesh network,
preventing inﬁnite loops using a time-to-live counter that is decremented whenever
a packet is forwarded; when it reaches zero the packet is discarded. Messages
that are transmitted using the mesh network, whether it is one-to-one messages
encrypted to a user that is not in direct range, or unencrypted broadcast messages
that anyone can read, have et = 3. Such a BleEntity may hold multiple mesh
messages of either kind. We note that these contain the sender and the receiver
of one-to-one messages in plaintext.
The received one-to-one mesh messages are processed depending on the
receiver ID – if it matches the client’s user ID, they will try to decrypt the
message, triggering the same processing as in the case of direct messages, and
also send a special “mesh reach” message that signals that the encrypted message
has found its recipient over the mesh. If the receiver ID does not match, the
packet is added to the set of packets that will be forwarded to the mesh.
The received broadcast messages are ﬁrst sent to the mesh. Then the client
constructs AppEntityMessages and processes them the same as one-to-one messages
before displaying them.
3.2 Handshake protocol
Clients establish a session by running a handshake protocol, whose messages
follow the BleEntity form with et = 0. The content of the entity is parsed as a
BleHandshake which contains a request type rq and response rp. The handshake
protocol is best understood as an exchange of requests and responses such that
each message consists of a response to the previous request bundled with the
next request. There are three types of requests:
– rq = null: no request,
– rq = 0: general request for user’s information,
– rq = 1: request for user’s public key.
The ﬁrst handshake message that is sent when a new BLE device is detected,
regardless of whether they have communicated before, has rq = 0 and also
contains the user’s ID, supported versions of the SDK and the CRC32 of the
user’s public key. The processing of received handshake messages depends on
whether the two users know each other’s public keys (either because they have
connected before, or because they are contacts and the server supplied the keys
when they were connected to the Internet).
Key exchange In the case when the parties do not have each other’s public
keys, this exchange is illustrated in Figure 1: Ivan is already online and scanning
for other users when Ursula comes into range and initiates the handshake. The
protocol can be understood to consist of two main parts, ﬁrst the key exchange
that occurs in plaintext, and second an encrypted “application handshake” which
exchanges information such as usernames and phone numbers. Before the second

part begins, the devices may also exchange recent mesh messages that the device
that was oﬄine may have missed. 2
Fig. 1: Handshake protocol including key exchange between Ivan and Ursula.
I U
et=0, BleHS(rq=0, Rp(type=0, uidU, crc(pkU)))
←−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−
et=0, BleHS(rq=1, Rp(type=0, uidI, crc(pkI)))
−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−→
et=0, BleHS(rq=1, Rp(type=1, uidU, crc(pkU), pkU))
←−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−
et=0, BleHS(rq=null, Rp(type=1, uidI, crc(pkI), pkI))
−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−→
et=1, AppHS(ARq(tp=0), null)
←−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−
et=1, AppHS(ARq(tp=0), ARp(tp=0, uidI, unI, vrf=1))
−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−→
et=1, AppHS(null, ARp(tp=0, uidU, unU, vrf=1))
←−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−
et=1, AppHS(null, ARp(tp=2, uidU))
−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−→
We abbreviate HandShake with HS. Here uidI, uidU are user IDs, pkI, pkU are the
public keys and unI, unU are usernames of Ivan and Ursula, and crc(pkU) > crc(pkI).
Messages in italics are encrypted.
In Figure 1 some ﬁelds of the objects are omitted for clarity. Rp represents
a response object ( ResponseJson) while ARq and ARp are application requests
and responses ( AppRequestJson and AppResponseJson). The AppHandShake(rq,
rp) object is wrapped in an AppEntityHandShake which forms the content of the
Message that is actually compressed and encrypted. Note that the order of who
initialises the BleHandshake depends on which user came online later, while the
ﬁrst AppHandShake is sent by the party whose CRC32 of their public key has a
larger value. We are also only displaying the case when a user has not veriﬁed
their phone number (which is the default behaviour in the application), i.e. vrf=1.
If they have, AppHandShake additionally includes a request and a response for
the phone number.
2 This is facilitated by the dump ﬂag in ForwardTransaction, but we omit this exchange
in the ﬁgure as it is not relevant to the actual handshake protocol.

Known keys In the case when both parties already know each other’s public
keys, there are only two BleHandshake messages exchanged, and both follow the
format of the ﬁrst message shown in Figure 1, where rq = 0. The exchange of
encrypted AppHandShake messages then continues unchanged.
Conditions When two devices come into range, the handshake protocol is executed
automatically and direct messages can only be sent after the handshake is
complete. Only clients in physical range can execute the BleHandShake part of the
protocol. Devices that are communicating via the mesh network do not perform
the handshake at all, so they can only exchange messages if they already know
each other’s keys from the Bridgefy server or because they have been in range
once before.
3.3 Routing via the Bridgefy server
An Internet connection is required when a user ﬁrst installs the application, which
registers them with the Bridgefy server. All requests are done via HTTPS, the
APIs for which are in the package me.bridgefy.backend.v3.
The BgfyUser class that models the information that is sent to the server
during registration contains the user’s chosen name, user ID, the list of users
blocked by this user, and if they are “veriﬁed” then also their phone number.
Afterwards, a contacts request is done every time an Internet connection is
available (regardless of whether a user is veriﬁed or not) and the user refreshes
the application. The phone numbers of the user’s contacts are uploaded to the
server to obtain a list of contacts that are also Bridgefy users. BgfyKeyApi then
provides methods to store and retrieve the users’ public keys from the server.
Messages sent between online users are of a simpler form than the Bluetooth
messages: an instance of BgfyMessage contains the sender and receiver IDs,
the RSA encryption of the text of the message and some metadata, such as a
timestamp and the delivered/read status of the message in plaintext. The server
will queue messages sent to users who are not currently online until they connect
to the Internet again.
4 Attacks
In this section, we show that Bridgefy does not provide conﬁdentiality of messages
and also that it does not satisfy the additional security needs arising in a protest
setting: privacy, authenticity and reliability in adversarial settings.
4.1 Privacy
Here, we discuss vulnerabilities in Bridgefy pertaining to user privacy in contrast
to conﬁdentiality of messages. We note that Bridgefy initially made no claim about
anonymity in its marketing but disabled mandating phone number veriﬁcation
to address anonymity needs in 2019 [73].

Local user tracking To prevent tracking, Bluetooth-enabled devices may use
“random” addresses which change over time (for details on the addressing scheme
see [13, Section 10.8]). However, when a Bridgefy client sends BLE ADV IND
packets (something that is done continuously while the application is running), it
transmits an identiﬁer in the service data that is the CRC32 value of its user ID,
encoded in 10 bytes as decimal digits. The user ID does not change unless the
user reinstalls the application, so passive observation of the network is enough to
enable tracking all users.
In addition, the automatic handshake protocol composed with public-key
caching provides a mechanism to perform historical contact tracing. If the devices
of two users have been in range before, they will not request each other’s public
keys, but they will do so automatically if that has not been the case.
Participant discovery Until December 2019 [73], Bridgefy required users to
register with a phone number. Users still have the option to do so, but it is
no longer the default. If the user gives the permission to the application to
access the contacts stored on their phone, the application will check which of
those contacts are already Bridgefy users based on phone numbers and display
those contacts to the user. When Bridgefy is predominantly installed on phones
of protesters, this allows the identiﬁcation of participants by running contact
discovery against all local phone numbers. While an adversary with signiﬁcant
control over the network, such as a state actor, might have alternative means
to collect such information, this approach is also available to e.g. employers or
activists supporting the other side.
Social graph All one-to-one messages sent over the mesh network contain
the sender and receiver IDs in plaintext, so a passive adversary with physical
presence can build a social graph of what IDs are communicating with whom. The
adversary can further use the server’s API to learn the usernames corresponding
to those IDs (via the getUserById request in BgfyUserApi). In addition, since three
receipts are sent when a message is received – “mesh reach” in clear, encrypted
“delivery” receipt, encrypted “viewed” receipt – a passive attacker can also build
an approximate, dynamic topology of the network, since users that are further
away from each other will have a larger delay between a message and its receipts.
4.2 Authenticity
Bridgefy does not utilise cryptographic authentication mechanisms. As a result,
an adversary can impersonate any user.
The initial handshake through which parties exchange their public keys or
identify each other after coming in range relies on two pieces of information to
establish the identities: a user ID and the lower-level Bluetooth device address.
Neither of these is an actual authentication mechanism: the user ID is public
information which can be learned from observing the network, while [ 57] shows
that it is possible to broadcast with any BLE device address.

However, an attacker does not need to go to such lengths. Spooﬁng can be
done by sending a handshake message which triggers the other side to overwrite
the information it currently has associated with a given user. Suppose there are
two users who have communicated with each other before, Ursula and Ivan, and
the attacker wishes to impersonate Ivan to Ursula. When the attacker comes
into range of Ursula, she will initiate the handshake. The attacker will send a
response of type 1, simply replacing its own user ID, public key and the CRC of
its public key with Ivan’s, and also copies Ivan’s username, as shown in Figure 2.
This works because the processing of handshakes in Bridgefy is not stateful
and parts of the handshake such as the request value rq and type of rp act as
control messages. This handshake is enough for Ursula’s application to merge the
attacker and Ivan into one user, and therefore show messages from the attacker
as if they came from Ivan. If the real Ivan comes in range at the time the attacker
is connected to Ursula, he will be able to communicate with her and receive
responses from her that the attacker will not be able to decrypt. However, he
will not be able to see the attacker’s presence. We implemented this attack and
veriﬁed that it works, see Section 4.3.
The messages exchanged over the mesh network (when users are not in direct
range) merely contain the user ID of the sender, so they can be spoofed with
ease. We also note that although the handshake protocol is meant for parties in
range, the second part of the handshake (i.e. AppHandshake) can also be sent
over the mesh network. This means that users can be convinced to change the
usernames and phone numbers associated with their Bridgefy contacts via the
mesh network.
Fig. 2: Impersonation attack, with attacker modiﬁcations in bold.
A U
BleHS(rq=0, Rp(type=0, uidU, crc(pkU)))
←−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−
BleHS(rq=1, Rp(type=1, uidI, crc(pkI), pkI) )
−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−→
BleHS(rq=null, Rp(type=1, uidU, crc(pkU), pkU))
←−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−
4.3 Conﬁdentiality
Conﬁdentiality of message contents is both a security goal mentioned in Bridgefy’s
marketing material and relied upon by participants in protests. In this section,
we show that the implemented protections are not suﬃcient to satisfy this goal.

IND-CPA Bridgefy’s encryption scheme only oﬀers a security level of 2 64 in a
standard IND-CPA security game, i.e. a passive adversary can decide whether
a message m0 or m1 of its choosing was encrypted as c. The adversary picks
messages of length 245 bytes and tries all 255 8 possible values for PKCS#1 v1.5
padding until it ﬁnds a match for the challenge ciphertext c.
Plaintext ﬁle sharing Bridgefy allows its users to send direct messages com-
posed of either just text or containing a location they want to share. The latter
is processed as a special text message containing coordinates, and so these two
types are encrypted, but the same is not true for any additional data such as
image ﬁles. Only the payload of the BleEntityContent is encrypted, which does
not include the byte array BleEntity.data that is used to transmit ﬁles. While
the application itself does not currently oﬀer the functionality to share images
or other ﬁles, it is part of the SDK and receiving media ﬁles does work in the
application. The fact that ﬁles are transmitted in plaintext is not stated in the
documentation, so for developers using the SDK it would be easy to assume that
ﬁles are shared privately when using this functionality.
MITM This attack is an extension of the impersonation attack described in
Section 4.2 where we convince the client to change the public key for any user
ID it has already communicated with. Suppose that Ivan is out of range, and the
attacker initiates a handshake with Ursula where rq = null, rp is of type 0 and
contains the CRC of the attacker’s key as well as Ivan’s user ID as the sender
ID (the user ID being replaced in all following handshake messages as well). The
logic of the handshake processing in Ursula’s client dictates that since the CRC
does not match the CRC of Ivan’s key that it has saved, it has to make a request
of type 1, i.e. a request for an updated public key. Then the attacker only needs
to supply its own key, which will get associated with Ivan’s user ID, as shown
in Figure 3. Afterwards, whenever Ursula sends a Bluetooth message to Ivan, it
will be encrypted under the attacker’s key. Further, Ursula’s client will display
messages from the attacker as if they came from Ivan, so this attack also provides
impersonation. If at this stage Ivan comes back in range, he will not be able to
connect to Ursula. The attack is not persistent, though – if the attacker goes
out of range, Ivan (when in range) can run a legitimate handshake and restore
communication.
We veriﬁed this and the previous impersonation attack in a setup with
four Android devices, where the attacker had two devices running Frida scripts
that modiﬁed the relevant handshake messages. Two attacker devices were
used to instantiate a full attacker in the middle attack, which is an artefact
of us hotpatching the Bridgefy application using Frida scripts: one device to
communicate with Ursula on behalf of Ivan and another with Ivan on behalf of
Ursula.
We also note that since the Bridgefy server serves as a trusted database of
users’ public keys, if compromised, it would be trivial to mount an attacker in the
middle attack on the communication of any two users. This would also impact

Fig. 3: One side of the MITM attack, with attacker modiﬁcations in bold.
A U
BleHS(rq=null, Rp(type=0, uidI, crc(pkA)))
−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−→
BleHS(rq=1, null)
←−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−
BleHS(rq=null, Rp(type=1, uidI, crc(pkA), pkA))
−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−→
users who are planning to only use the application oﬄine since the server would
only need to supply them the wrong keys during registration.
Padding oracle attack The following chosen ciphertext attack is enabled by the
fact that all one-to-one messages use public-key encryption but no authentication,
so we can construct valid ciphertexts as if coming from any sender. We can also
track BLE packets and replay them at will, reordering or substituting ciphertext
blocks.
We instantiate a variant of Bleichenbacher’s attack [12] on RSA with PKCS#1
v1.5 padding using Bridgefy’s delivery receipts. This attack relies on distinguishing
whether a ciphertext was processed successfully or not. The receiver of a message
sends a message status update when a message has been received and processed,
i.e. decrypted, decompressed and parsed. If there was an error on the receiver’s
side, no message is sent. No other indication of successful delivery or (type of)
error is sent. Since the sender of a Bridgefy message cannot distinguish between
decryption errors or decompression errors merely from the information it gets
from the receiver, we construct a padding oracle that circumvents this issue.
Suppose that Ivan sends a ciphertext c encrypting the message m to Ursula
that we intercept. In the classical Bleichenbacher’s attack, we would form a new
ciphertext c∗ = se· c mod n for some s where n is the modulus and e is the
exponent of Ursula’s public key. Now suppose that c∗ has a correct padding. Since
messages are processed in blocks, we can prepend and append valid ciphertexts.
These are guaranteed to pass the padding checks as they are honestly generated
ciphertexts (we recall that there is no authentication). We will construct these
blocks in such a way that decompression of the joint contents will succeed with
non-negligible probability, and therefore enable us to get a delivery receipt which
will instantiate our padding oracle.
The Gzip ﬁle format [ 40] speciﬁes a number of optional ﬂags. If the ﬂag
FLG.FCOMMENT is set, the header is followed by a number of “comment” bytes,
terminated with a zero byte, that are essentially ignored. In particular, these
bytes are not covered by the CRC32 checksum contained in the Gzip trailer.
Thus, we let c0 be the encryption of a 10-byte Gzip header with this ﬂag set
followed by up to 245 non-zero bytes, and let c1 be the encryption of a zero byte

followed by a valid compressed MessagePack payload (i.e. of a message from the
attacker to Ursula) and Gzip trailer.
When put together, c0||c∗||c1 encrypts a correctly compressed message as
long as unpad(s· pad(m)) (which is part of the comment ﬁeld) does not contain
a zero byte, and therefore Ursula will send a delivery receipt for the attacker’s
message. The probability that the comment does not contain a zero byte for
random s is≥ (1− 1
256)
245
≈ 0.383.
To study the number of adaptively chosen ciphertexts required, we adapted
the simulation code from [ 16] for the Bleichenbacher-style oracle encountered in
this attack: a payload will pass the test if it has valid padding for messages of any
valid length (“FFT” in [ 7] parlance) and if it does not contain a zero byte in the
“message” part after splitting oﬀ the padding. We then ran a Bleichenbacher-style
attack 4, 096 times (on 80 cores, taking about 12h in total) and recorded how
often the oracle was called in each attack. We give a histogram of our data
in Figure 4. The median is 2 16.75, the mean 2 17.36. Our SageMath [ 65] script,
based on Python code in [ 16], and the raw data for Figure 4 are attached to the
electronic version of this document.
Fig. 4: Density distribution for number of ciphertexts required to mount a padding-
oracle attack via Gzip comments.
1 2 3 4 5
·105
200
400
600
Number of oracle queries
Frequency
We have veriﬁed the applicability of this attack in Bridgefy using ciphertexts
c∗ constructed to be PKCS#1 v1.5-conforming (i.e. where we set s = pad(m)−1·
pad(r) mod n where r is 245 random bytes). We used Frida to run a script on
the attacker’s device that would send c0||c∗||c1 to the target Bridgefy user via
Bluetooth, and record whether it gets a delivery receipt for the message contained
in c1 or not. The observed frequency of the receipts matched the probability

given earlier. This oracle suﬃces to instantiate Bleichenbacher’s original attack.
In our preliminary experiments we were able to send a ciphertext every 450ms,
suggesting 50% of attacks complete in less than 14 hours. We note, however, that
our timings are based on us hotpatching Bridgefy to send the messages and that
a higher throughput might be achievable.
Padding oracles from a timing side-channel Our decompression oracle
depends on the Bridgefy SDK processing three blocks as a joint ciphertext. While
we veriﬁed that this behaviour is also exhibited by the Bridgefy application, the
application itself never sends ciphertexts that span more than two blocks as it
imposes a limit of 256 bytes on the size of the text of each message. Thus, a
stopgap mitigation of our previous attack could be to disable the processing of
more than two blocks of ciphertext jointly together.
We sketch an alternative attack that only requires two blocks of ciphertext
per message. It is enabled by the fact that when a receiver processes an incorrect
message, there is a diﬀerence in the time it takes to process it depending on what
kind of error was encountered. This diﬀerence is clearly observable for ciphertexts
that consist of at least two blocks, where the error occurs in the ﬁrst block.
We note that padding errors occurring in the second block can be observed by
swapping the blocks, as they are decrypted individually.
Figure 5 (raw data is attached to the electronic version of this document) shows
the diﬀerences for experiments run on the target device, measured using Frida.
A script was injected into the Bridgefy application that would call the method
responsible for extracting a message from a received BLE packet (including
decryption and decompression) on given valid or invalid data. The execution
time of this method was measured directly on the device using Java.
If multiple messages are received, they are processed sequentially, which
enables the propagation of these timing diﬀerences to the network level. That
is, the attacker sends two messages, one consisting of c∗||c′ where c∗ = se· c
mod n is the modiﬁed target ciphertext and c′ is an arbitrary ciphertext block,
and one consisting of some unrelated message, either as direct messages one
after another or a mesh transaction containing both messages among its packets.
The side-channel being considered is then simply the time it takes to receive the
delivery receipt on the second valid message.
We leave exploring whether this could be instantiated in practice to future
work, since our previous attacks do not require this timing channel. We note,
though, that an adversary would likely need more precise control over the timing
of when packets are released than that oﬀered by stock Android devices in order
to capture the correct diﬀerence in a BLE environment.
4.4 Denial of service
Bridgefy’s appeal to protesters to enable messaging in light of an Internet
shutdown makes resilience to denial of service attacks a key concern. While
a ﬂood-based network can be resilient as a consequence of its simplicity, some
particularities of the Bridgefy setup make it vulnerable.

Fig. 5: Execution time of ChunkUtils.stitchChunksToEntity for 2 ciphertext blocks
in milliseconds. In the table, N is the number of samples in each experiment.
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
0
100
200
300
400
500
Time (ms)
Frequency
padding error
gzip error
error type N µ σ σ/
√
N
bad padding 1360 33.882956 3.137260 0.085071
gzip error 1508 42.557275 4.273194 0.110040
Broad DoS Due to the use of compression, Bridgefy is vulnerable to “zip
bomb” attacks. In particular, compressing a message of size 10MB containing
a repeated single character results in a payload of size 10KB, which can be
easily transmitted over the BLE mesh network. Then, when the client attempts
to display this message, the application becomes unresponsive to the point of
requiring reinstallation to make it usable again. Sending such a message to the
broadcast chat provides a trivial way of disabling many clients at the same
time, since clients will ﬁrst forward the message further and only then start
the processing to display it which causes them to hang. As a consequence, a
single adversarially generated message can take down the entire network. We
implemented this attack and tested it in practice on a number of Android devices.
Targeted DoS A consequence of the MITM attack from Section 4.3 is that it
provides a way to prevent given two users from connecting, even if they are in
Bluetooth range, since the attacker’s key becomes attached to one of the user ids.
5 Discussion
While our attacks reveal severe deﬁciencies in the security of both the Bridgefy
application (v2.1.28) and the SDK (v1.0.6), it is natural to ask whether they are
valid and what lessons can be drawn from them for cryptographic research.

Given that most of our attacks are variants of attacks known in the literature,
it is worth asking why Bridgefy did not mitigate against them. A simple answer
to this question might be that the application was not designed for adversarial
settings and that therefore our attacks are out of scope, externally imposing
security goals. However, such an account would fail to note that Bridgefy’s
security falls short also in settings where attacks are not expected to be the
norm, i.e. Bridgefy does not satisfy standard privacy guarantees expected of
any modern messaging application. In particular, prior to our work, Bridgefy
developers advertised the app/SDK as “private” and as featuring end-to-end
encryption; our attacks thus broke Bridgefy’s own security claims.
More importantly, however, Bridgefy is used in highly adversarial settings
where its security ought to stand up to powerful nation-state adversaries and the
Bridgefy developers advertise their application for these contexts [ 46,72,74,75].
Technologies need to be evaluated under the conditions they are used in. Here, our
attacks highlight the value of secure by design approaches to development. While
designers might envision certain use cases, users, in the absence of alternatives,
may reach for whatever solution is available.
Our work thus draws attention to this problem space. While it is diﬃcult to
assess the actual reliance of protesters on mesh communication, theidea of resilient
communication in the face of a government-mandated Internet shutdown is
present throughout protests across the globe [ 8,11,43,74,77,46,10,74,75,47,79,71].
Yet, these users are not well served by the existing solutions they rely on. Thus,
it is a pressing topic for future work to design communication protocols and tools
that cater to these needs. We note, though, that this requires understanding
“these needs” to avoid a disconnect between what designers design for and what
users in these settings require [26,34].
5.1 Responsible disclosure
We disclosed the vulnerabilities described in this work to the Bridgefy developers
on 27 April 2020 and they acknowledged receipt on the same day. We agreed on a
public disclosure date of 24 August 2020. Starting from 1 June 2020, the Bridgefy
team began informing their users that they should not expect conﬁdentiality
guarantees from the current version of the application [ 80]. On 8 July 2020,
the developers informed us that they were implementing a switch to the Signal
protocol to provide cryptographic assurances in their SDK. On 24 August 2020,
we published an abridged 3 version of this paper in conjunction with a media
article [33]. The Bridgefy team published a statement on the same day [ 19]. On
30 October 2020, an update ﬁnalising the switch to Signal was released [ 21]. If
implemented correctly, it would rule out many of the attacks described in this
work. Note, however, that we have not reviewed these changes and we recommend
an independent security audit to verify they have been implemented correctly.
3 We had omitted details of the Bridgefy architecture, as the attacks had not been
mitigated at that point in time.

Acknowledgements
Part of this work was done while Albrecht was visiting the Simons Institute
for the Theory of Computing. The research of Marekov´ a was supported by the
EPSRC and the UK Government as part of the Centre for Doctoral Training in
Cyber Security at Royal Holloway, University of London (EP/P009301/1). We
thank Kenny Paterson and Eamonn Postlethwaite for comments on an earlier
version of this paper.
References
1. Bridgefy. https://web.archive.org/web/20200411143157/https://www.bridgefy.me/
(Apr 2020)
2. Adomnicai, A., Fournier, J.J.A., Masson, L.: Hardware security threats against
Bluetooth Mesh networks. In: 2018 IEEE Conference on Communications and
Network Security, CNS 2018, Beijing, China, May 30 - June 1, 2018. pp. 1–9. IEEE
(2018), https://doi.org/10.1109/CNS.2018.8433184
3. ´Alvarez, F., Almon, L., Hahn, A., Hollick, M.: Toxic friends in your network:
Breaking the Bluetooth Mesh friendship concept. In: Mehrnezhad, M., van der
Merwe, T., Hao, F. (eds.) Proceedings of the 5th ACM Workshop on Security
Standardisation Research Workshop, London, UK, November 11, 2019. pp. 1–12.
ACM (2019), https://doi.org/10.1145/3338500.3360334
4. Alwen, J., Capretto, M., Cueto, M., Kamath, C., Klein, K., Pascual-Perez, G.,
Pietrzak, K., Walter, M.: Keep the dirt: Tainted treekem, an eﬃcient and provably
secure continuous group key agreement protocol. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2019/1489 (2019), https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/1489
5. Alwen, J., Coretti, S., Dodis, Y., Tselekounis, Y.: Security analysis and improve-
ments for the IETF MLS standard for group messaging. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2019/1189 (2019), https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/1189
6. Aviram, N., Schinzel, S., Somorovsky, J., Heninger, N., Dankel, M., Steube, J.,
Valenta, L., Adrian, D., Halderman, J.A., Dukhovni, V., K¨ asper, E., Cohney, S.,
Engels, S., Paar, C., Shavitt, Y.: DROWN: Breaking TLS using SSLv2. In: Holz
and Savage [36], pp. 689–706
7. Bardou, R., Focardi, R., Kawamoto, Y., Simionato, L., Steel, G., Tsay, J.K.: Eﬃcient
padding oracle attacks on cryptographic hardware. In: Safavi-Naini, R., Canetti, R.
(eds.) CRYPTO 2012. LNCS, vol. 7417, pp. 608–625. Springer, Heidelberg (Aug
2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-5 36
8. BBC News: Iraqis use Firechat messaging app to overcome net block. http:
//web.archive.org/web/20190325080943/https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-
27994309k (Jun 2014)
9. Becker, J.K., Li, D., Starobinski, D.: Tracking anonymized Bluetooth devices.
Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies 2019(3), 50–65 (2019)
10. Bhavani, D.K.: Internet shutdown? why Bridgefy app that enables oﬄine
messaging is trending in India. http://web.archive.org/web/20200105053448/https:
//www.thehindu.com/sci-tech/technology/internet-shutdown-why-bridgefy-app-
that-enables-oﬄine-messaging-is-trending-in-india/article30336067.ece (Dec 2019)
11. Bland, A.: FireChat – the messaging app that’s powering the Hong Kong
protests. http://web.archive.org/web/20200328142327/https://www.theguardian.
com/world/2014/sep/29/ﬁrechat-messaging-app-powering-hong-kong-protests (Sep
2014)

12. Bleichenbacher, D.: Chosen ciphertext attacks against protocols based
on the RSA encryption standard PKCS #1. In: Krawczyk, H. (ed.)
CRYPTO’98. LNCS, vol. 1462, pp. 1–12. Springer, Heidelberg (Aug 1998).
https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0055716
13. Bluetooth SIG: Core speciﬁcation 5.1. https://www.bluetooth.com/speciﬁcations/
bluetooth-core-speciﬁcation/ (Jan 2019)
14. B¨ ock, H., Somorovsky, J., Young, C.: Return of bleichenbacher’s oracle threat
(ROBOT). In: Enck, W., Felt, A.P. (eds.) USENIX Security 2018. pp. 817–849.
USENIX Association (Aug 2018)
15. Borak, M.: We tested a messaging app used by Hong Kong protesters that works
without an internet connection. http://web.archive.org/web/20191206182048/https:
//www.abacusnews.com/digital-life/we-tested-messaging-app-used-hong-kong-
protesters-works-without-internet-connection/article/3025661 (Sep 2019)
16. Boyle, G.: 20 years of Bleichenbacher attacks. Tech. Rep. RHUL–ISG–2019–1,
Information Security Group, Royal Holloway University of London (2019)
17. Brewster, T.: Hong Kong protesters are using this ‘mesh’ messaging app—but
should they trust it? http://web.archive.org/web/20191219071731/https:
//www.forbes.com/sites/thomasbrewster/2019/09/04/hong-kong-protesters-are-
using-this-mesh-messaging-app--but-should-they-trust-it/ (Sep 2019)
18. Bridgefy: Developers. https://blog.bridgefy.me/developers.html, https://archive.
vn/yjg9f
19. Bridgefy: Bridgefy’s commitment to privacy and security. http://web.archive.org/
web/20200826183604/https://bridgefy.me/bridgefys-commitment-to-privacy-and-
security/ (Aug 2020)
20. Bridgefy: Oﬄine messaging. https://web.archive.org/20200411143133/https://play.
google.com/store/apps/details?id=me.bridgefy.main (Apr 2020)
21. Bridgefy: Technical article on our security updates. http://web.archive.org/web/
20201102093540/https://bridgefy.me/technical-article-on-our-security-updates/
(Nov 2020)
22. Cort´ es, V.: Bridgefy sees massive spike in downloads during Hong Kong protests.
http://web.archive.org/web/20191013072633/http://www.contxto.com/en/
mexico/mexican-bridgefy-sees-massive-spike-in-downloads-during-hong-kong-
protests/ (Aug 2019)
23. Cremers, C., Hale, B., Kohbrok, K.: Eﬃcient post-compromise security beyond one
group. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/477 (2019), https://eprint.iacr.org/
2019/477
24. Dunning, J.P.: Taming the blue beast: A survey of bluetooth based threats. IEEE
Secur. Priv. 8(2), 20–27 (2010), https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2010.3
25. Duong, T., Rizzo, J.: The CRIME attack. Presentation at ekoparty Security Con-
ference (2012)
26. Ermoshina, K., Halpin, H., Musiani, F.: Can johnny build a protocol? co-ordinating
developer and user intentions for privacy-enhanced secure messaging protocols. In:
European Workshop on Usable Security (2017)
27. Fiﬁeld, D.: A better zip bomb. In: 13th USENIX Workshop on Oﬀensive Technologies
(WOOT 19). USENIX Association, Santa Clara, CA (Aug 2019)
28. Frida: A dynamic instrumentation framework, v12.8.9. https://frida.re/ (Feb 2020)
29. Furuhashi, S.: MessagePack. https://msgpack.org/ (2008)
30. Gardner-Stephen, P.: The Serval project. http://www.servalproject.org/ (2017)
31. Garman, C., Green, M., Kaptchuk, G., Miers, I., Rushanan, M.: Dancing on the lip
of the volcano: Chosen ciphertext attacks on apple iMessage. In: Holz and Savage
[36], pp. 655–672

32. Gluck, Y., Harris, N., Prado, A.: BREACH: reviving the CRIME attack. Black Hat
USA (2013)
33. Goodin, D.: Bridgefy, the messenger promoted for mass protests, is a privacy
disaster. https://arstechnica.com/features/2020/08/bridgefy-the-app-promoted-
for-mass-protests-is-a-privacy-disaster/ (Aug 2020)
34. Halpin, H., Ermoshina, K., Musiani, F.: Co-ordinating developers and high-risk
users of privacy-enhanced secure messaging protocols. In: Cremers, C., Lehmann,
A. (eds.) Security Standardisation Research - 4th International Conference, SSR
2018. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 11322, pp. 56–75. Springer (2018),
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-04762-7 4
35. Hassan, S.S., Bibon, S.D., Hossain, M.S., Atiquzzaman, M.: Security threats in
Bluetooth technology. Comput. Secur. 74, 308–322 (2018), https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.cose.2017.03.008
36. Holz, T., Savage, S. (eds.): USENIX Security 2016. USENIX Association (Aug
2016)
37. HypeLabs: The Hype SDK: A technical overview. https://hypelabs.io/documents/
Hype-SDK.pdf (2019)
38. HypeLabs: https://hypelabs.io (2020)
39. IETF: DEFLATE compressed data format speciﬁcation version 1.3. https://tools.
ietf.org/html/rfc1951 (May 1996)
40. IETF: GZIP ﬁle format speciﬁcation version 4.3. https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1952
(May 1996)
41. IETF: PKCS #1: RSA encryption version 1.5. https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2313
(March 1998)
42. Jasek, S.: GATTacking Bluetooth smart devices. https://github.com/securing/docs/
raw/master/whitepaper.pdf (2016)
43. Josh Horwitz, T.i.A.: Unblockable? unstoppable? FireChat messaging app unites
China and Taiwan in free speech. . . and it’s not pretty. http://web.archive.org/web/
20141027180653/https://www.techinasia.com/unblockable-unstoppable-ﬁrechat-
messaging-app-unites-china-and-taiwan-in-free-speech-and-its-not-pretty/ (Mar
2014)
44. Kelsey, J.: Compression and information leakage of plaintext. In: Daemen, J.,
Rijmen, V. (eds.) FSE 2002. LNCS, vol. 2365, pp. 263–276. Springer, Heidelberg
(Feb 2002). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45661-9 21
45. Kl´ ıma, V., Pokorn´ y, O., Rosa, T.: Attacking RSA-based sessions in SSL/TLS. In:
Walter, C.D., Ko¸ c,C ¸etin Kaya., Paar, C. (eds.) CHES 2003. LNCS, vol. 2779, pp.
426–440. Springer, Heidelberg (Sep 2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-45238-
6 33
46. Koetsier, J.: Hong Kong protestors using mesh messaging app china can’t
block: Usage up 3685%. https://web.archive.org/web/20200411154603/https:
//www.forbes.com/sites/johnkoetsier/2019/09/02/hong-kong-protestors-using-
mesh-messaging-app-china-cant-block-usage-up-3685/ (Sep 2019)
47. Magaisa, A.T.: https://twitter.com/wamagaisa/status/1288817111796797440 (Jul
2020), http://archive.today/DVRZf
48. Mihindukulasuriya, R.: Firechat, Bridgefy see massive rise in downloads amid inter-
net shutdowns during caa protests. http://web.archive.org/web/20200109212954/
https://theprint.in/india/ﬁrechat-bridgefy-see-massive-rise-in-downloads-amid-
internet-shutdowns-during-caa-protests/340058/ (Dec 2019)
49. Mohan, P.: How the internet shutdown in Kashmir is splintering India’s democracy.
http://web.archive.org/web/20200408111230/https://www.fastcompany.com/

90470779/how-the-internet-shutdown-in-kashmir-is-splintering-indias-democracy
(Mar 2020)
50. Mudzingwa, F.: This oﬄine messenger that might keep you connected if the govt
decides to shut down the internet. https://web.archive.org/web/20200816101930/
https://www.techzim.co.zw/2020/07/bridgefy-is-an-oﬄine-messenger-that-
might-keep-you-connected-if-the-govt-decides-to-shut-down-the-internet/ (Aug
2020)
51. News, H.: Hong Kong protestors using Bridgefy’s Bluetooth-based mesh net-
work messaging app. https://web.archive.org/web/20191016114954/https://news.
ycombinator.com/item?id=20861948 (Aug 2019)
52. Ng, B.: Bridgefy: A startup that enables messaging without internet. http:
//archive.today/2020.06.07-120425/https://www.ejinsight.com/eji/article/id/
2230121/20190826-bridgefy-a-startup-that-enables-messaging-without-internet
(Aug 2019)
53. Open Garden: FireChat. http://web.archive.org/web/20200111174316/https://
www.opengarden.com/ﬁrechat/ (Oct 2019)
54. Open Mesh: B.A.T.M.A.N. Advanced. https://www.open-mesh.org/projects/
batman-adv/wiki (2020)
55. Purohit, K.: Whatsapp to Bridgefy, what Hong Kong taught India’s
leaderless protesters. http://web.archive.org/web/20200406103939/https:
//www.scmp.com/week-asia/politics/article/3042633/whatsapp-bridgefy-what-
hong-kong-taught-indias-leaderless (Dec 2019)
56. Rogers, M., Saitta, E., Grote, T., Dehm, J., Wieder, B.: Briar. https://web.archive.
org/web/20191016114519/https://briarproject.org/ (Mar 2018)
57. Ryan, M.: Bluetooth: With low energy comes low security. In: Proceedings of the
7th USENIX Conference on Oﬀensive Technologies. p. 4. WOOT’13, USENIX
Association, USA (2013)
58. Schwartz, L.: The world’s protest app of choice. https://restofworld.org/2020/the-
worlds-protest-app-of-choice/ (Aug 2020), http://archive.today/5kOhr
59. SIG, B.: Mesh proﬁle speciﬁcation 1.0.1. https://www.bluetooth.com/speciﬁcations/
mesh-speciﬁcations/ (Jan 2019)
60. Silva, M.D.: Hong Kong protestors are once again using mesh networks to preempt
an internet shutdown. http://archive.today/2019.09.20-220517/https://qz.com/
1701045/hong-kong-protestors-use-bridgefy-to-preempt-internet-shutdown/ (Sep
2019)
61. Sivakumaran, P., Blasco, J.: A study of the feasibility of co-located app attacks
against BLE and a large-scale analysis of the current application-layer security
landscape. In: Heninger, N., Traynor, P. (eds.) USENIX Security 2019. pp. 1–18.
USENIX Association (Aug 2019)
62. Skylot: Jadx - Dex to Java decompiler, v1.1.0. https://github.com/skylot/jadx
(Dec 2019)
63. SMEX: Lebanon protests: How to communicate securely in case of a network
disruption. https://smex.org/lebanon-protests-how-to-communicate-securely-in-
case-of-a-network-disruption-2/ (Oct 2019), http://archive.today/hx1lp
64. Software Freedom Law Centre, India: Internet shutdown tracker. https://
internetshutdowns.in/ (2020)
65. Stein, W., et al.: Sage Mathematics Software Version 9.0. The Sage Development
Team (2019), http://www.sagemath.org
66. Subnodes: Subnodes. http://subnodes.org/ (2018)
67. Sullivan, N., Turner, S., Kaduk, B., Cohn-Gordon, K., et al.: Messaging Layer
Security (MLS). https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/mls/about/ (Nov 2018)

68. Teknologiia Lebanon: Lebanese Protesters are using this ‘Bridgefy’ Messaging App
— What is it? https://medium.com/@teknologiialb/lebanese-protesters-are-using-
this-bridgefy-messaging-app-what-is-it-74614e169197 (Jan 2020), https://archive.
vn/udqly
69. The Stranger: How to message people at protests even without internet ac-
cess. https://www.thestranger.com/slog/2020/06/03/43829749/how-to-message-
people-at-protests-even-without-internet-access (Jun 2020), http://archive.is/
8UrWQ
70. Twitter: Bridgefy search. https://twitter.com/search?q=bridgefy (Jun 2020), http:
//archive.today/hwklY
71. Twitter – B1O15J: https://twitter.com/B1O15J/status/1294603355277336576 (Aug
2020), https://archive.vn/dkPqD
72. Twitter – Bridgefy: https://twitter.com/bridgefy/status/1197191632665415686
(Nov 2019), http://archive.today/aNKQy
73. Twitter – Bridgefy: https://twitter.com/bridgefy/status/1209924773486170113
(Dec 2019), http://archive.today/aQZDL
74. Twitter – Bridgefy: https://twitter.com/bridgefy/status/1216473058753597453
(Jan 2020), http://archive.today/x1gG4
75. Twitter – Bridgefy: https://twitter.com/bridgefy/status/1268905414248153089
(Jun 2020), http://archive.today/odSbW
76. Twitter – Bridgefy: https://twitter.com/bridgefy/status/1287768436244983808 (Jul
2020), https://archive.vn/WQfZm
77. Twitter – Bridgefy: https://twitter.com/bridgefy/status/1268015807252004864
(Jun 2020), http://archive.today/uKNRm
78. Twitter – Bridgefy: https://twitter.com/bridgefy/status/1289576487004168197
(Aug 2020), https://archive.vn/zbxgR
79. Twitter – Bridgefy: https://twitter.com/bridgefy/status/1292880821725036545
(Aug 2020), https://archive.vn/tKr0t
80. Twitter – Bridgefy: https://twitter.com/bridgefy/status/1267469099266965506
(Jun 2020), http://archive.today/40pzC
81. Uher, J., Mennecke, R.G., Farroha, B.S.: Denial of sleep attacks in Bluetooth
Low Energy wireless sensor networks. In: Brand, J., Valenti, M.C., Akinpelu, A.,
Doshi, B.T., Gorsic, B.L. (eds.) 2016 IEEE Military Communications Conference,
MILCOM 2016, Baltimore, MD, USA, November 1-3, 2016. pp. 1231–1236. IEEE
(2016), https://doi.org/10.1109/MILCOM.2016.7795499
82. Wakeﬁeld, J.: Hong Kong protesters using Bluetooth Bridgefy app.
http://web.archive.org/web/20200305062625/https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/
technology-49565587 (Sep 2019)
83. Zuo, C., Wen, H., Lin, Z., Zhang, Y.: Automatic ﬁngerprinting of vulnerable BLE
IoT devices with static UUIDs from mobile apps. In: Proceedings of the 2019 ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security. pp. 1469–1483.
ACM (2019)
A Bridgefy message classes
These classes can be found in three packages:
– me.bridgefy.entities,
– com.bridgefy.sdk.framework.entities and

– com.bridgefy.sdk.client (the class Message).
In the ﬁgures, data types are Java SE data types. In particular an int is a 32-bit
integer, a long is a 64-bit integer and Integer and Long are their object forms.
Fig. 6: Classes of me.bridgefy.entities.
Message :
String conversation , messageId , o f f l i n e I d
String receiver , sender , o t h e r U s e r n a m e
String dateSent , s e r v e r D a t e
int m e s s a g e T y p e
String text // text of the actual message
String f ile Na me
byte [] f i l e C o n t e n t
int status // sent / d e l i v e r e d / read
A p p H a n d s h a k e :
A p p R e q u e s t J s o n rq
A p p R e s p o n s e J s o n rp
A p p R e q u e s t J s o n :
int tp // type
String dt // device type ( Android )
A p p R e s p o n s e J s o n :
int tp // type : general , phone or fi ni she d
String uid // user ID
String ph // phone number
String un // use rn ame
boolean dn // no phone
int vrf // ver if ie d user
Fig. 7: Class com.bridgefy.sdk.client.Message.
Message :
HashMap content // payload
String receiverId , senderId , uuid
long da te Sen t
byte [] data // media file content
boolean isMesh
int hop , hops // time to live counter

Fig. 8: Classes of com.bridgefy.sdk.framework.entities.
B l e E n t i t y :
String id
int et // entity type
T ct // content
byte [] b i n a r y P a r t // e n c r y p t e d mesh m es sag es
byte [] data // media file content
B l e H a n d s h a k e :
Integer rq // request type
R e s p o n s e J s o n rp // re sp ons e
R e s p o n s e J s o n :
int type // general or key
String uuid // user ID
String v , lcv // SDK version
long crcKey // CRC of public key
int dt
String key // public key
B l e E n t i t y C o n t e n t :
String id
HashMap < String , Object > pld // payload
F o r w a r d T r a n s a c t i o n :
String sender
String m e s h _ r e a c h // mesh de liv er y receipt
boolean dump
List < ForwardPacket > mesh
F o r w a r d P a c k e t :
String id , sender , r ec eiv er
int r e c e i v e r _ t y p e // user or b r o a d c a s t
int e n c _ p a y l o a d // index into b i n a r y P a r t
HashMap < String , Object > payload
long creation , e x p i r a t i o n
int hops , profile , p r o p a g a t i o n
ArrayList < Long > track
byte [] f o r w a r d e d P a y l o a d
Fig. 9: Classes of me.bridgefy.entities.transport.
A p p E n t i t y :
String ct , mi // content , message id
long ds // date sent
int et // entity type
A p p E n t i t y M e s s a g e extends A p p E n t i t y :
int mt // message type
int ku // unused
String nm // use rn ame of the sender
A p p E n t i t y S i g n a l extends A p p E n t i t y :
int ms // signal type
A p p E n t i t y H a n d S h a k e extends A p p E n t i t y :
A p p H a n d S h a k e hi