Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types
PAULO SÉRGIO ALMEIDA, INESC TEC & University of Minho, Portugal
Conflict-free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs) allow optimistic replication in a principled way. Different
replicas can proceed independently, being available even under network partitions, and always converging
deterministically: replicas that have received the same updates will have equivalent state, even if received in
different orders. After a historical tour of the evolution from sequential data types to CRDTs, we present in
detail the two main approaches to CRDTs, operation-based and state-based, including two important variations,
the pure operation-based and the delta-state based. Intended for prospective CRDT researchers and designers,
this paper provides solid coverage of the essential concepts, clarifying some misconceptions which frequently
occur, but also presents some novel insights gained from considerable experience in designing both specific
CRDTs and approaches to CRDTs.
CCS Concepts: • Computing methodologies→ Distributed computing methodologies ; • Theory of compu-
tation→ Distributed algorithms; • Computer systems organization→ A vailability; • Software and its
engineering→ Data types and structures ; • Information systems→ Data replication tools.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Eventual Consistency, Replicated Data Types, CRDT
1 INTRODUCTION
Classic distributed systems aim for strong consistency (e.g., linearizability [40]), through the state-
machine replication approach, proposed by Lamport [52]. But while they can achieve performance
(throughput), achieving strong consistency in systems with large spatial spans comes at the cost of
high response time and the loss of availability under network partitions, as expressed by the CAP
theorem [17, 34].
The importance of always-on availability for real businesses motivated relaxing consistency. A
seminal work, which popularized the NoSQL movement, was Amazon’s Dynamo [27], which stresses
the importance of availability: “even the slightest outage has significant financial consequences and
impacts customer trust”. But programming NoSQL data stores is difficult and error prone, given a
low level read-write based API, and the need for ad hoc reconciliation of concurrent updates.
Since their appearance [78], Conflict-free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs), soon became very
popular. The essential concept is 1) providing a higher level API, as in classic data types, but for
distributed, replicated objects, while 2) achieving availability through relaxing consistency and
allowing immediate local replica updates and queries, with asynchronous communication to make
replicas converge, 3) with data type specific concurrency semantics and synchronization specified
as built-in, freeing programmers from writing ad hoc reconciliation code.
CRDTs are difficult to design, prone to subtle bugs, but allow the majority of distributed appli-
cation programmers to use them, from some library, with little effort, while only a minority of
expert CRDT designers need to go through the intricate process of creating new CRDTs over time.
This paper is mostly aimed at prospective CRDT researchers or designers, but every CRDT user
gains from having some knowledge about how they work. It describes the two main approaches
to CRDTs, based on propagating operations or on propagating state, while also presenting two
variants. The most important, delta-state CRDTs [3], aim to achieve, in a way, “the best of both
worlds”. Pure operation-based CRDTs [7, 8] are a relevant point in the design space that makes clear
the role of specifications over a partially ordered set of operations (a partially ordered log) in the
definition of the CRDT and of causal stability in achieving a small state, not achievable otherwise.
This paper clarifies misconceptions regarding CRDTs, which frequently occur, in papers or
presentations, and shows novel depictions, e.g., to provide intuition about joining causal state-based
Author’s address: Paulo Sérgio Almeida, psa@di.uminho.pt, INESC TEC & University of Minho, Portugal.
arXiv:2310.18220v2  [cs.DC]  9 Sep 2024

2 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
CRDTs. One common misconception is regarding commutativity: “CRDTs are types with commuta-
tive operations”, which is not true. Indeed, the more significant improvement over classic optimistic
replication, like Lazy Replication [50] is the support for data types with non-commutative opera-
tions. We clarify the role of commutativity, by presenting a better (than the usual) diagram showing
the execution model of operation-based CRDTs. Another example is regarding monotonicity in
state-based CRDTs: “mutators must be monotonic functions”, when in fact they must be inflations,
to result in the monotonic evolution of state. The paper discusses the role of commutativity, idempo-
tence and inflations in the ability to reuse sequential data types for both operation- and state-based
CRDT designs. The classic requirement of prepare in operation-based CRDTs to be side-effect free
is also addressed. We point out that if we distinguish the abstract state used in queries from the full
CRDT concrete state, then the requirement can be relaxed, leading to better designs, and present a
novel observed-remove set which is better than any prior design.
After a historical tour showing the evolution from sequential data types to CRDTs, the subsequent
sections present: operation-based CRDTs, pure operation-based CRDTs, state-based CRDTs, and
delta-state based CRDTs. This is followed by a comparison of the approaches, a discussion of
identity management towards scalability, and a presentation of practical applications. Along the
paper we use classic examples (counters, registers, sets), which are relatively simple to explain and
understand, while having enough subtlety to allow comparing approaches, avoiding more complex
data types, such as lists (e.g., Treedoc [70], RGA [74]), which need considerably more involved
algorithms. Collaborative Editing, and the List data type are discussed in Section 9, Practical
Applications.
2 FROM SEQUENTIAL DATA TYPES TO CRDTS
2.1 From sequential to concurrent data abstractions
Data abstractions. Abstraction is essential to tame complexity and scale. Two main types are
functional and data abstraction. Functional abstractions (functions and procedures) were introduced
first, roughly at the same time (1958) in Fortran, Lisp and Algol. Data abstractions involved a longer
evolution over time, with the two main variants being abstract data types and objects.
The ingredients to obtain data types are normally thought of as: procedures; the concept of
record, introduced in the AED-1 language [75] (then named plexes) and adopted for Algol by Wirth
and Hoare [87]; the combination of procedures and records. What actually happened [63] was the
generalization of Algol blocks to lifetime not restricted to stack allocation in Simula [26] processes
(and later classes). The final ingredient was hiding the representation from client code, in CLU [56],
leading to abstract data types (ADTs). (Simula had some information hiding capability, through
inner blocks, which was not adequate.)
Sequential data types. In imperative languages, sequential data types became the most common
abstraction in libraries. The availability of types such as Set and Map, serving as “Swiss Army
knifes” in solving many problems diminished the number of times programmers had to “reinvent
the wheel” and end up with slow and buggy implementations. The research effort in efficient
imperative implementations of such data types has been immensely useful for the “real world”.
For sequential data types proving correctness is relatively easy (when no aliasing is involved),
made possible with the introduction of axiomatic reasoning by Hoare [42], involving the notions of
preconditions, postconditions and invariants, and its adaptation to data types [44]. The pervading
occurrence of aliasing poses a problem; languages like Rust, aim to avoiding mutable state sharing.
Concurrent data types. It was only natural to extend sequential data types to shared memory
concurrency, to obtain objects usable by concurrent threads. Inspired by Simula, Hansen [38]

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 3
P1
P2
time
w(1)
r():2
w(0)
r():?
0 OK
2 Invalid
w(2)
Fig. 1. A register object with read and write operations. To be linearizable, last read must return 0.
introduced monitors, with the construct of shared classes , and Hoare [43] introduced a slight
variant. Monitors enforce mutual-exclusion during operation execution, allowing the concept of
atomic objects, which are easy to reason about using the same concepts of pre-/post-conditions and
invariants, as no concurrency occurs during operation execution. Monitors also allow blocking mid-
operation, via the await primitive (Hansen), or condition variables (Hoare). This is something useful
and essential for inter-process synchronization, to achieve cooperation through shared abstractions,
the most well known being the bounded-buffer. Unfortunately, it complicates reasoning. Blocking
abstractions, common in shared-memory concurrency, are less common in distributed systems (an
example being a distributed lock), and do not suit CRDTs which aim to be always available locally.
Lock-free and wait-free data structures. Towards achieving performance and fault tolerance in
shared-memory multiprocessors, lock-free data structures were proposed. These do no use locks
but resort directly to low level atomic operations, such ascompare-and-swap, provided by hardware.
This allows several data type operations in progress concurrently, not in mutual exclusion (as
in monitors). Moreover, if wait-free [39], it guarantees that an operation completes in a finite
number of steps, regardless of what other processes do. Their emphasis is on multiprocessors, not
distributed systems, not being of further concern here, except for one question they arise: how to
express correctness criteria when several actions are happening concurrently. This issue is relevant
for distributed systems.
2.2 Strongly consistent replication
Linearizability. Linearizability [40] is the more widely used correctness criteria when aiming
for implementations that, even allowing concurrent execution of operations, mimic the behavior
exposed by a sequential data type. An execution is linearizable, roughly, if 1) it is equivalent to
some sequential execution; 2) it respects “real time” for non-overlapping operations.
Consider a register object (Figure 1) being accessed by two processes. The read from𝑃2 must
return 0 if the register provides linearizability, even though w(2) was the last operation to return,
before the read. The reason is that because the read from 𝑃1 returned 2, the write from𝑃2 must
have taken effect before it, in the interval shaded in blue, being ordered before r():2 and w(0) from
𝑃1.
Replicated state machines. Obtaining distributed implementations of data types that comply with
linearizability can be done through the state-machine replication approach. This was proposed by
Lamport [52] and consists essentially of:
(1) Replicate state on several nodes;
(2) Same deterministic state machine at each node, 𝑆′ = 𝐹(𝑆,𝐼), where the next state is a
function of the current one and the input;
(3) Agree on a global total order of inputs from all nodes;
(4) Apply totally ordered inputs at each node.

4 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
The result is that the replicated system behaves as if it were a single machine. The most difficult
part, specially to be fault tolerant, is the agreement [68]. The extreme case of tolerating byzantine
faults is applied in the now popular blockchains, many of which use some variant of the PBFT
algorithm [23]. Using a sequential data type for the state machine results in a replicated data type.
One could think then that the problem of obtaining distributed implementations of data types is
solved and there is nothing more that needs to be done.
2.3 The CAP theorem and consistency models
The CAP theorem. In a keynote at the PODC 2000 conference, Brewer [17] stated a conjecture that
in a distributed system we can only achieve, simultaneously, at most two of the three guarantees:
strong Consistency, Availability, Partition tolerance. This conjecture was proved [34], more con-
cretely, interpreting strong consistency as linearizability, and became known as the CAP theorem.
This is commonly expressed as a trilemma, in which we can only pick two out of the three properties.
But because network partitions may always occur, and cannot be avoided, we can design either AP
or CP systems: achieve either availability or strong consistency (linearizability).
CP vs AP. The CAP theorem implies an important design choice for distributed systems. Whether
to achieve linearizability (CP) or availability (AP). But even when there are no network partitions,
the design choice has also implication on response times. As a rough summary, CP systems:
• aim for linearizability;
• may become unavailable under network partitions;
• have high response times in wide area.
In AP systems:
• operations can remain available, even when there are partitions;
• response times can be low even in wide area.
Forgoing linearizability, an important question is: what consistency model to aim for?
Consistency models. The definition of consistency models has been an important and complex
research topic going over many decades. It typically involves tradeoffs regarding consequences
to relevant actors (e.g., hardware, compiler, programmers), in matters such as efficient use of “the
machine”, ease of implementability, ease of reasoning, or useful guarantees. Viotti and Vukolic [82]
present over 40 models. Of these, causal consistency [1] is of special importance, being (broadly)
the strongest achievable while not losing availability [57].
Causal Consistency. Causal Consistency (CC) allows processes to see different orders, as long
as they are consistent with a global happens-before partial order. Happens-before (hb) contains
the session order so, which relates operations from each process, and the visibility order vis [19]
(operation𝑎 is visible to𝑏, written𝑎 vis𝑏, if the effect of𝑎 is visible to the process performing𝑏),
being the transitive closure of their union:
hb
.
=(so∪ vis)+
and causal consistency essentially means that:
vis = hb,
i.e., all operations from the causal past are visible, with no missing updates. Processes may possibly
arbitrate operations in different total orders, each compatible with the global visibility partial order,
not necessarily converging (causal consistency itself does not ensure convergence).

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 5
Convergence. The strongest guarantees that AP systems aim for are causal consistency together
with what has become known as strong eventual consistency (SEC) [78], which guarantees that all
updates will eventually become visible everywhere (eventual visibility/delivery) and that processes
that see the same set of updates have equivalent state, regardless of the order in which they become
visible (strong convergence).
We remark that the term SEC was an unfortunate choice of terminology, and the source of some
confusion, due to the use of the word strong, usually associated with strong consistency models,
such as sequential consistency and linearizability. Moreover,Eventual Consistency (EC), as originally
introduced by Terry et al. [80] already includes the SEC guarantees. As described in that paper, EC
systems should include mechanisms to ensure two properties, on which EC relies:
• total propagation: each update is eventually propagated everywhere, by some anti-entropy
mechanism (i.e., eventual delivery),
• consistent ordering: non-commutative updates are applied in the same order everywhere,
which implies the strong convergence property of SEC.
These two properties mean, as described by Terry et al. [81], also addressing EC, that “all servers
eventually receive all Writes via the pair-wise anti-entropy process and that two servers holding
the same set of Writes will have the same data contents”. So, originally EC meant SEC, and a
similar definition of EC was also used by Roh et al. [74]. The informal meaning of EC “eventual
convergence when updates stop being issued”, since it became popular due to Vogels [83], is just
a consequence of the above properties which EC systems ensure. As originally introduced, what
is “eventual” in EC is operation visibility (delivery); replicas that have delivered the same set of
updates have converged.
Spatial scalability. More than just being available (AP), EC systems aiming for CC and conver-
gence, can be performant, and usable at large spatial scales (very wide area), with low operation
response time. This is an essential property for interactive systems, sometimes forgotten when
thinking only of global throughput as a measure of success, often done when evaluating CP systems.
Causal consistency can be achieved while being as fast as possible in terms of physical limits
(speed of light). We can say that these systems exhibit “mechanical sympathy” regarding our
universe, i.e., the model suits the “machine”, even at large spatial scales. (The term mechanical
sympathy was introduced in software by Martin Thomsom, to refer to software being built with
the understanding of how hardware works, so that it can suit the hardware, and run efficiently in
the underlying machine.)
On the contrary, linearizability can be said to be contra naturam. There is a wide mismatch be-
tween model (what it aims to guarantee) and “machine” (our universe). It would suit an Aristotelian
universe, with infinite light speed. In our universe, we must slow things down (delay responses)
to achieve it. The response time degrades with spatial span, becoming impractical for very wide
distances; e.g., linearizability would be completely unsuitable for a system encompassing Earth
and a future Mars colony. Large spatial spans require specialized techniques or protocols, which
motivated research on DTNs (delay-tolerant networks) and OppNets (opportunistic networks),
for which CRDTs can be suitable. Guidec et al. [37] investigate the implementation of CRDTs for
OppNets.
2.4 Optimistic replication and CRDTs
Optimistic replication. Well before the CAP theorem was introduced, systems relaxing coordina-
tion and providing availability were developed. This was the optimistic replication [76] approach.
The main ingredients were:
• replicas are locally available for queries and updates;

6 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
• updates are propagated asynchronously, in the background, opportunistically.
Thus, a total order of operations was not attempted: updates could become known in different
orders by different replicas. This approach achieves both availability and low latency, but it poses a
problem: replicas may diverge, possibly forever. This problem was addressed using two approaches,
in two relevant early works:
• In Lazy replication [50], relax ordering, but only for commutative operations.
• In Bayou [81], have conflict detection, client-provided merge procedures, tentative writes
for availability, but the same order at all replicas for committed writes (possibly undoing
and reapplying if necessary) for eventual consistency.
Conflict-free Replicated Data Types. The introduction of Conflict-free Replicated Data Types
(CRDTs) [78] was an important step over previous approaches to optimistic replication. A CRDT
is exposed as a standard data type, providing operations. Each data type object is replicated and
accessed locally by two kinds of operations:
• mutator operations update state;
• query operations look at the state and return a result.
Operations are always available, not depending on synchronization. A CRDT object is highly avail-
able, even under partitions, with essentially zero operation response time (only local computation).
As previous optimistic replication approaches, information is propagated asynchronously. The
main novelty is that conflicts are dealt with semantically, making a replication-aware concurrent
specification part of the data type definition. This specification expresses how conflicts are solved
and, contrary to previous approaches, is not limited to commutative operations. Conflict resolution
is encapsulated by the data type, freeing programmers from having to write application-specific ad
hoc conflict resolution code. (The effort becomes choosing the appropriate CRDTs.)
ADTs vs objects. Evolution of object-oriented languages involved many concepts, like abstract
data type, parametric polymorphism, object, class, inheritance and subtyping, as described in
the classic by Cardelli and Wegner [22], with tools such as existential and bounded universal
quantification. As well summarized by Cook [25], there are two main kinds of data abstractions:
ADTs and objects.
ADTs can be modeled as existential types, can access multiples instances, have efficient binary
operations, and different implementations cannot mix. Objects can be modeled with recursive
higher order functions, access only the self state, binary operations are “slow” or even impossible,
and multiple implementations can be used together.
Most of the above is irrelevant to this paper, except for one aspect: ADT implementations can
have access to multiple instances (e.g., binary operations, like multiply), while objects can only
access the self state, with other objects being only accessible through their interfaces.
For distributed systems, this means that only with full replication would replicated ADTs be
viable. In general, with only a subset of objects being replicated in each node, we cannot rely on
being able to access several specific objects together. This is why CRDTs do not provide binary
operations involving two (or more) instances, but only operations on the “self” object. Therefore,
CRDTs normally are really “Conflict-free Replicated Objects”, which would have been a more
suitable name.
Operation-based vs state-based approaches. Concerning CRDT implementation (both the data
type itself and the propagation mechanism), there are two main approaches: operation-based and
state-based.

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 7
P1
P2
s
f()
g()
m1 = p(f, s)
e(m1, s)
s
e(m1, e(m2, s))
e(m2, e(m1, s))
m2 = p(g, s)
e(m2, s)
prepare
effect
e(m2, e(m1, s)) = e(m1, e(m2, s))
Fig. 2. Execution model for op-based CRDTs, stressing the commutativity of effect for concurrently invoked
operations.
Operation-based approaches propagate information about operations to other replicas, using a
reliable messaging algorithm for propagation. This normally needs some ordering guarantees, but
weaker than a total order. Normally causal delivery is chosen, to achieve the goal of having causal
consistency. A special case is the pure operation-based approach.
State-based approaches propagate replica states, as opposed to propagating operations. A merge
function is defined to be able to reconcile replica states. State propagation is opportunistic, by
“background” communication, typically much less frequent than per-operation, to amortize the
cost of propagating full states. An important variant, to make the propagation more incremental, is
the delta-state based approach, partially combining the advantages of both approaches.
3 OPERATION-BASED CRDTS
The core concept of op-based (for short) CRDTs is to send operations, not state, to other replicas,
towards replica convergence. So, when an update operation is invoked, in addition to being applied
to the replica where it was invoked, it is sent to all other replicas, asynchronously, upon which
they are applied at those replicas, when they arrive. Query operations (that do not cause state
changes) can make use of the local state and be responded to immediately, causing no inter-replica
messaging.
Because operations are not, in general, idempotent, it is essential that an exactly-once messaging
mechanism is used. For some CRDTs no ordering guarantees at all would be needed for convergence.
But towards ensuring, in addition to convergence, causal consistency – the strongest possible
consistency model while remaining available under partitions – a causal broadcast [14] mechanism
is normally adopted, making causally dependent operations become visible in the correct order.
The essential improvement over previous attempts at optimistic replication is the treatment of
non-commutative operations. Two concurrently invoked non-commutative operations could arrive
and be applied in different orders in different replicas, which would lead to divergence. This is dealt
with by sending more than just the operation when “broadcasting operations” to other replicas.
3.1 Execution model and concurrency semantics
Standard execution model of operation-based CRDTs. To achieve convergence even for data types
containing non-commutative operations, the execution model for op-based CRDTs, presented in
Figure 2, divides the execution of an update operation in two phases: prepare and effect.
(1) When an update operation is invoked, prepare is performed locally:
• it looks at the state and the operation;
• it must have no side effects (on the abstract state);
• the result from prepare is disseminated with reliable causal broadcast.
(2) Upon message delivery at each replica, effect is applied:

8 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
GCounter
CRDT state:
𝑛 : N = 0
query value() : N
return𝑛
update inc()
prepare
return inc
effect inc
𝑛←𝑛+ 1
PNCounter
CRDT state:
𝑣 : Z = 0
query value() : Z
return𝑣
update inc()
prepare
return inc
effect inc
𝑣←𝑣+ 1
update dec()
prepare
return dec
effect dec
𝑣←𝑣− 1
Grow-only set (GSet⟨𝐸⟩)
CRDT state:
𝑠 :P(𝐸) =∅
query elements() :𝐸
return𝑠
query contains(𝑒 :𝐸) : B
return𝑒∈𝑠
update add(𝑒 :𝐸)
prepare
return(add,𝑒)
effect(add,𝑒)
𝑠←𝑠∪{𝑒}
Fig. 3. Simple CRDTs with only commutative operations: GCounter, PNCounter and GSet. State and effect
the same as for a sequential data type.
• takes message (result from prepare) and state, and produces new state;
• it is designed to be commutative for concurrently invoked operations;
• it assumes immediate self-delivery on sender replica.
Immediate self-delivery is important to ensure “Read Your Writes” [80], making the state-change
immediately reflected locally and visible to subsequent query operations that follow the update.
Reusing sequential data types with commutative operations. Data types that only have commutative
operations can be implemented as op-based CRDTs trivially: the state is the same as for the
sequential data type; prepare returns the operation identifier and arguments; effect invokes the
corresponding sequential data type operation. These data types respect the Principle of Permutation
Equivalence [11]: if all sequential permutations of updates lead to the same state, then concurrent
execution of those operations should converge to that same state. For such data types, not even
FIFO order is needed for convergence, just exactly-once delivery. Causal delivery is normally used
to achieve causal consistency. Three examples are illustrated in Figure 3: GCounter, with only an
increment update operation; a PNCounter, which may be negative, having both increment and
decrement; GSet, a grow-only set having just an add update operation.
CRDTs with non-commutative operations. Where the CRDT approach becomes more interesting
is for data types with non-commutative operations. An example is a set data type, having add and
remove operations. These are not commutative, as:
add(𝑣, rmv(𝑣,𝑠)) ≠ rmv(𝑣, add(𝑣,𝑠)).
If the state were the same as for the sequential data type, and effect defined as simply applying
the corresponding operation, the possibility of different delivery orders for concurrently invoked
add and remove of the same element would lead to divergence.
Therefore, the state must be more involved, and effect must be defined such that it is commutative
for concurrently invoked operations. But not only convergence is relevant. How can we define
what is supposed to happen given two concurrently invoked add and remove? I.e., how can we
define the data type semantics for such CRDTs?

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 9
Defining concurrent semantics. A first design criteria for CRDT semantics is preserving the
sequential semantics of the original data type. I.e., under a sequential execution the CRDT should
produce the same outcome as the corresponding sequential data type. Then, we must define how
to handle conflicts for concurrently invoked operations. In the set example, given concurrent add
and remove of the same element, we want to define which will “win”. We have several possibilities:
• add wins;
• remove wins;
• last-writer-wins (LWW), using a totally ordered arbitration.
For CRDTs, in general, the outcome may not be equivalent to some sequential execution. Data
type semantics are usually defined resorting to the causal past, i.e., the result from a query depends
on the set of update operations that are visible to it, and their partial order under happens-before.
3.2 Observed-cancel CRDTs
Observed-cancel semantics. We may define different CRDTs, with different semantics, for each
sequential data type (e.g., for a set). A particularly interesting concept, for choosing in which way
a conflict between two operations is handled, is what can be called observed-cancel semantics.
Essentially, “cancel observed (visible) operations, as if they were never issued”.
Using causal delivery, as usual for op-based CRDTs, this means that an operation which cancels
another will cancel the operations in its causal past, but not the ones concurrently issued. This
is the most appealing choice because it makes an operation act upon a closed, well defined set of
other operations which have already taken effect on the state. It will not “blindly discard” updates
not yet seen, and that could not have been accounted for yet. (Such updates will eventually become
visible and can always be canceled subsequently.) This prevents undesired “lost updates” which
CRDTs aim to avoid. Two examples are the observed-remove set [10]:
• has add and remove operations;
• remove only cancels the adds visible to it;
• concurrent adds will not be canceled and will “win”;
and the observed-reset counter [84]:
• has increment and reset;
• a reset cancels the observed increments.
The appeal of observed-cancel semantics can be seen in the observed-reset counter: it allows
a sample-and-reset pattern, where a process periodically samples the counter value and resets
it. This allows grouping increments in a sequence, without losing any increment, even the ones
concurrently issued, which will be accounted for in the next sample-and-reset. An alternative
semantics where reset cancels concurrent increments would not allow accurate accounting to be
achieved.
Observed-remove set. A well known example is precisely the observed-remove set, also called
add-wins set, because adds win over concurrent removes. Several different implementations were
presented in the literature, from very naive, to “optimized” [10]. An even more optimized version,
not previously published, is presented in Figure 5.
Many CRDTs start indeed from a naive version, being further optimized along time. The observed-
remove set is a good example of possible improvements. A vanilla, naive, version is shown in Figure 4.
In this CRDT, the state is a set of pairs and an element𝑒 is considered to belong to the set if there is
a pair(𝑒,𝑢), for some unique identifier𝑢, in the set of pairs. This version has some open issues and
several possible improvements.

10 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
CRDT state:
𝑠 :P(𝐸× . . .) =∅
query elements() :𝐸
return{𝑒|( 𝑒, _)∈ 𝑠}
query contains(𝑒 :𝐸) : B
return∃𝑥·(𝑒,𝑥)∈ 𝑠
update add(𝑒 :𝐸)
prepare
let𝑢 =[some unique id]
return(add,𝑒,𝑢)
effect(add,𝑒,𝑢)
𝑠←𝑠∪{( 𝑒,𝑢)}
update remove(𝑒 :𝐸)
prepare
let𝑟 ={(𝑥,𝑢)∈ 𝑠|𝑥 =𝑒}
return(remove,𝑟)
effect(remove,𝑟)
𝑠←𝑠\𝑟
Fig. 4. Op-based observed-remove set, ORSet⟨𝐸⟩, naive implementation.
types:
I, set of replica identifiers
parameters:
𝑖∈ I, replica identifier
CRDT state:
𝑚 :𝐸 ⇀P( I× N) =∅
𝑐 : N = 0, auxiliary state
query elements() :𝐸
return dom𝑚
query contains(𝑒 :𝐸) : B
return𝑚[𝑒] ≠∅
update add(𝑒 :𝐸)
prepare
𝑐←𝑐+ 1
return(add,𝑒,(𝑖,𝑐),𝑚[𝑒])
effect(add,𝑒,𝑑,𝑟 )
𝑚[𝑒]← 𝑚[𝑒]\ 𝑟∪{𝑑}
update remove(𝑒 :𝐸)
prepare
return(remove,𝑒,𝑚[𝑒])
effect(remove,𝑒,𝑟)
𝑚[𝑒]← 𝑚[𝑒]\ 𝑟
Fig. 5. Op-based observed-remove set ORSet⟨𝐸⟩, optimized implementation. Algorithm for replica𝑖.
The first issue is that it assumes the generation of unique ids, but does not specify how to do so.
This is a frequent need, and can be achieved by using unique replica ids and a counter per replica,
incremented at each operation. Unique ids are obtained as pairs (replica id, counter); this is what
we call a “dot” (from Dotted Version Vectors [69]). The second issue is that, being the state a set of
pairs, most operations need set traversal, which is inefficient. The solution is to use a map from
elements to sets of ids. A third issue is that adds keep accumulating state, adding a new pair to
the ones from previous adds of the same element. An improvement is to replace the current pairs,
for the given element, with a single pair for the new unique id. A fourth issue is that prepare for
remove sends the element being removed repeated in each pair. The improvement is to collect the
set of ids separately.
The optimized implementation, in Figure 5, contains all the above improvements. It assumes
a unique replica identifier𝑖 in the set I of possible replica identifiers, and assumes the standard
op-based execution model, using causal delivery. Each replica has a counter, incremented per add,
which allows, together with the replica id, to generate unique ids. It must be noticed that this
counter is auxiliary state, not part of the CRDT state used in queries or effect. This auxiliary state
does not converge and it can be updated in prepare. This allows not respecting the classic rule that
prepare must be free from side-effects, and obtaining a better CRDT implementation. Currently
published versions which do not make this distinction are less elegant.

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 11
The state is a map from elements in the set to sets of operation identifiers. Here we assume that
the map stores only non-empty sets, implicitly returning∅ for unmapped keys. Prepare returns a
tuple with operation, argument, unique id in the case of an add, and the set of ids which the map
holds, for the given element. When effect is applied for remove, it subtracts the set of ids sent from
the ones in the map, for the corresponding element. This has the desired outcome of removing
the adds that have been observed at the replica where the remove was invoked, at the time it was
invoked. Concurrently issued adds will “survive”. For add, effect adds the newly generated id and
subtracts the set of ids present when the add was issued (similar to remove), as the new id makes
the others redundant.
This CRDT is more optimized than the one previously published [10]: it avoids computation cost
by organizing entries in a map; avoids sending the element repeatedly in a remove; and removes
all observed identifiers for the element in an add, while the previously published only discards
entries of previous adds from the same source. This exemplifies how, even for a relatively simple
CRDT, many different versions with subtle variations may exist. This example also shows the role
of commutativity: not only the operations themselves (add/remove) are not commutative, but the
effect of add/remove is also not commutative: only the effect of concurrently issued add/remove is
so.
3.3 Beyond sequential semantics and API
Lack of equivalence to sequential executions. CRDTs aim to preserve the sequential semantics
for sequential executions, but what concerns concurrent invocations not always is it possible to
achieve such equivalence. In some cases the CRDT:
• has behavior not possible by any sequential execution;
• the interface itself is different from the sequential data type.
The observed-remove set allows executions which are not equivalent to any sequential execution,
considering the corresponding sequential data type semantics (of a set). This is easily seen by a run
with two replicas, involving two elements𝑎 and𝑏, where concurrently each replica adds an element
and removes the other, i.e., add(𝑎); remove(𝑏)∥ add(𝑏); remove(𝑎). By the observed-remove set
semantics, upon convergence both elements will be in the set, which is impossible in a sequential
execution, as some remove will be the last operation.
Moreover, there are CRDTs for which even the interface itself was changed from the correspond-
ing sequential data type. The most well known example with a modified interface is the multi-value
register, made popular by the Dynamo [27] key-value store from Amazon.
Multi-value register. The multi-value register keeps the set of the most recent concurrent writes.
A read returns that set of values, and a write overwrites that set, in the current replica into a
singleton. A multi-value register implementation, using the same technique of generating unique
ids as for the observed-remove set is presented in Figure 6.
The state is a set of pairs, each with the written value and corresponding unique id. Prepare
returns a tuple with: the operation, a pair with value and unique id, and the set of ids in the state.
When effect is applied, it keeps the pairs in the state with id not present in the set of ids in the
message, and adds the new pair. This has the desired outcome of removing writes made obsolete,
only preserving the most recent concurrent writes. At the replica where the write is invoked only
a singleton will remain.

12 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
types:
I, set of replica identifiers
parameters:
𝑖∈ I, replica identifier
CRDT state:
𝑠 :P(𝐸×( I× N)) =∅
𝑐 : N = 0, auxiliary state
query read() :P(𝐸)
return{𝑒|( 𝑒, _)∈ 𝑠}
update write(𝑒 :𝐸)
prepare
𝑐←𝑐+ 1
let𝑟 ={𝑑|( _,𝑑)∈ 𝑠}
return(write,(𝑒,(𝑖,𝑐)),𝑟)
effect(write,𝑣,𝑟)
𝑠←{( 𝑒,𝑑)∈ 𝑠|𝑑 ∉𝑟} ∪{𝑣}
Fig. 6. Op-based multi-value register, MVReg⟨𝐸⟩. Algorithm for replica𝑖.
4 PURE OPERATION-BASED CRDTS
Pure op-based CRDTs. Pure op-based CRDTs [7] are a subset of general op-based CRDTs, restricted
to the essence of “send only operations”. Pure op-based CRDTs use the same prepare-effect execution
model. What defines them is the restriction that:
• Prepare simply returns the operation (including arguments), ignoring current state.
Given operation𝑜 and state𝑠:
prepare(𝑜,𝑠) =𝑜.
This is unlike the general op-based approach, which can depart too much from the op-based
spirit, allowing implementations that are, for all practical purposes, state-based: We can pick any
state-based CRDT, define prepare as applying the operation and returning the resulting state, and
define effect as merging states. However, pure op-based CRDTs may be less efficient than the
general op-based approach. The pure-op based approach is relevant as an important point in the
design space.
Pure implementations of commutative data types. For data types with only commutative operations,
where for any operations𝑓 and𝑔, and state𝑠:
𝑓(𝑔(𝑠)) =𝑔(𝑓(𝑠)),
operations can be applied in any order, producing the same result. As discussed in the general
op-based model, the CRDT specification can be based on the sequential specification, with a trivial
implementation, defining effect as simply applying the operation:
effect(𝑜,𝑠) =𝑜(𝑠).
This applies to CRDTs such as GCounter, PNCounter, and GSet, described before, which fit the
pure-op model. Again, the challenge lies on non-commutative operations: how can we obtain pure
op-based implementations for non-commutative data types? The solution is to use an augmented
form of causal broadcast, called tagged causal broadcast, which provides knowledge about happens-
before and about causal stability, which we describe below.
4.1 Tagged Causal Broadcast and Causal Stability
Tagged Causal Broadcast (TCB). Causal broadcast middleware already manages causality infor-
mation, but normal APIs do not expose it to clients. Tagged Causal Broadcast [7] provides:
• a partial order on messages, in terms of an end-to-end happens-before;
• information about causal stability of messages, as we define below.

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 13
Table 1. Some usages of “stability” and their meaning.
Term Provenance Meaning
Self stabilization Dijkstra [29] returns to valid state
Stable storage Lampson and Sturgis [53] durable storage, survives crashes
Multicast stability Birman et al. [15] message was received by all nodes
Write stability Terry et al. [81] a tentative write commits
Causal stability Baquero et al. [7] concurrent messages were delivered
The TCB API defines delivery as providing, together with the message itself, a timestamp corre-
sponding to a partially ordered logical clock value which reflectshappens-before. This timestamp can
be used in the implementation of the CRDT to distinguish between causally related and concurrently
invoked operations, and implement the desired semantics.
Causal Stability. We define causal stability as: message with timestamp 𝑡 is causally stable at
node𝑖 when all messages subsequently delivered at 𝑖 will have timestamp 𝑡′≥ 𝑡. So, a message is
causally stable when no more concurrent messages will be delivered. This is different from classic
multicast/message stability [15].
A multicast is stable when it has been received by all nodes. Multicast stability is used internally
by the messaging middleware, being useful for garbage collection when ensuring fault tolerance:
once a message has been delivered at some node and becomes stable, that node can discard it.
While classic multicast stability regards messages being received, being an implementation
aspect, causal stability is a property involving delivery, visible to TCB clients. Also, while multicast
stability is a global property, causal stability is a per-node property: some message may be causally
stable in some node but not in others. Causal stability is stronger: a message only becomes causally
stable in some node when it has become stable.
The many faces of stability. “Stability” has been a much overloaded expression in distributed
systems. Table 1 shows some terms where the word stability is used, and their rough meaning.
Causal stability has not been properly recognized, being sometimes confused with message stability.
Although the concept itself was not new when pure op-based CRDTs were introduced, coining
the term “causal stability” will help avoid some confusion, specially in contexts where both may
coexist, such as when describing a system involving pure op-based CRDTs, which rely on causal
stability, making use of a TCB middleware, whose implementation may resort to multicast/message
stability.
Distributed algorithm for pure op-based CRDTs. The distributed algorithm for pure op-based
CRDTs becomes simply reacting to the TCB middleware callbacks and invoking either prepare,
effect, or a stable function to make use of causal stability information, as shown in Figure 7.
4.2 Resorting to a partially ordered Log
Naive PO-Log based implementations. A starting point for implementing pure op-based CRDTs is
making the state a PO-Log: partially ordered log of operations. The PO-Log can be implemented
as a map from timestamps to operations. Effect simply adds an entry(𝑡,𝑜) delivered by TCB to
the PO-Log. This makes both prepare and effect to have a universal definition. Only queries are
data type dependent, being defined over the PO-Log. This approach is shown in Figure 8. It is very
naive, but a starting point for subsequent optimization.

14 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
state:
𝑠∈𝑆
on operation(𝑜):
tcbcast(prepare(𝑜,𝑠))
on tcdeliver(𝑚,𝑡):
𝑠← effect(𝑚,𝑡,𝑠)
on tcstable(𝑡):
𝑠← stable(𝑡,𝑠)
Fig. 7. Distributed algorithm for pure op-based CRDTs, making use of a TCB middleware.
𝑆 =𝑇 ⇀𝑂 𝑠 0 ={}
prepare(𝑜,𝑠) = 𝑜
effect(𝑜,𝑡,𝑠) = 𝑠∪{( 𝑡,𝑜)}
eval(𝑞,𝑠) = [data type specific query function over PO-Log ]
Fig. 8. PO-Log based implementation for pure op-based CRDTs.
𝑆 =𝑇 ⇀𝑂 𝑠 0 ={}
prepare(𝑜,𝑠) = 𝑜 (𝑜 either[add,𝑣] or[rmv,𝑣])
effect(𝑜,𝑡,𝑠) = 𝑠∪{( 𝑡,𝑜)}
eval(elements,𝑠) = {𝑣|( 𝑡,[add,𝑣])∈ 𝑠 ∧(𝑡′,[rmv,𝑣])∈ 𝑠·𝑡 <𝑡′}
Fig. 9. PO-Log based observed-remove (add-wins) set CRDT.
PO-Log based observed-remove (add-wins) set. An example of a PO-Log based CRDT, an observed-
remove set is shown in Figure 9. Prepare and effect have the universal definition shown before. Only
query is data type specific. The query mimics the specification over the partial order of operations:
an element is considered to be in the set if there exists an add for that element not canceled by a
remove in its causal future. Essentially, this implementation is a naive runnable specification. But it
shows the role of partial-order based concurrent specifications in the design of CRDTs [20, 21], and
how it fits directly the pure op-based model, as opposed to the totally ordered history of operations
used for sequential specifications.
Semantically based PO-Log compaction. PO-Log based CRDTs as described would be very ineffi-
cient, and need optimizations to be actually usable. The idea is to avoid PO-Log growth, making it
compact, by keeping the smallest number of items that produce equivalent results when queries
are performed. The compaction is data type specific, according to the specification, and makes use
of the causality related data provided by the TCB middleware:
• Causality: to prune the PO-Log after effect is performed, i.e., after operation delivery;
• Causal stability: to discard timestamps for operations that become causally stable and in
some cases to remove operations that become redundant after causal stability.

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 15
Causality information can be exploited to achieve PO-Log compaction by redefining effect to
use a data type specific obsolete relation between timestamps:
effect(𝑜,𝑡,𝑠)
.
={𝑥∈𝑠|¬ obsolete(𝑥,(𝑡,𝑜))}∪{( 𝑡,𝑜)| 𝑥∈𝑠⇒¬ obsolete((𝑡,𝑜),𝑥)}.
When a new pair (𝑡,𝑜) is delivered, effect discards from the PO-Log all elements 𝑥 such that
obsolete(𝑥,(𝑡,𝑜)) holds. Moreover, the delivered pair(𝑡,𝑜) is only inserted into the PO-Log if it is
not itself redundant, i.e., if obsolete((𝑡,𝑜),𝑥) is false for any𝑥 in the PO-Log. The obsolete relation
is not restricted to being a partial-order to allow, e.g., a newly arrived operation to discard others
in the PO-Log without necessarily being itself added.
Regarding exploiting causal stability, the basic improvement is to replace timestamps by⊥, when
they becomes causally stable, as they will be compared as in the past of new operations that will
arrive, saving space. For some data types we can also remove some causally stable operations
themselves, if they become redundant considering the data type semantics. We thus define stable
as:
stable(𝑡,𝑠)
.
= stabilize(𝑡,𝑠)[(⊥,𝑜)/(𝑡,𝑜)],
where stabilize is a data type specific function which discards operations from the PO-Log that
become redundant upon causal stability.
Commonly, stabilize is the identity function, but it can be quite involved. A detailed description
of how causal stability can be exploited is beyond the scope of this paper. Details can be found
in Baquero et al. [7, 8]. Just to give an example, in a remove-wins set, a remove wins over a
concurrent add of the same element and must be kept in the PO-Log for some time, in case a
concurrent add shows up. But once the remove becomes causally stable it can be discarded in some
cases.
PO-Log based observed-remove set with PO-Log compaction. To exemplify how causality informa-
tion can be used to perform PO-Log compaction, for an ORSet it is true that:
• a subsequent add obsoletes a previous add of the same value;
• a subsequent remove obsoletes a previous add of the same value;
• a remove is made obsolete by any other timestamped operation: after having made other
operations obsolete, the remove itself becomes redundant.
So, the obsolete relation for the ORSet can be defined as:
obsolete((𝑡,[add,𝑣]),(𝑡′,[add,𝑣′])) = 𝑡 <𝑡′∧𝑣 =𝑣′
obsolete((𝑡,[add,𝑣]),(𝑡′,[remove,𝑣′])) = 𝑡 <𝑡′∧𝑣 =𝑣′
obsolete((𝑡,[remove,𝑣]),𝑥) = True
The compacted PO-Log not also saves space but also allows a substantially simpler eval:
eval(elements,𝑠) = {𝑣|( 𝑡,[add,𝑣])∈ 𝑠}
On partition tolerance. A possible criticism that can be made regarding the use of causal stability
is that operations stop becoming stable under partitions. We observe that, while for strongly
consistent (CP) systems a partition causes unavailability, in pure op-based CRDTs a partition only
impacts state size, which may grow while partitioned, but does not impact availability itself. If the
partition does not take long, it may not cause much harm and the system will recover. We also
note that long partitions will be a problem in general for op-based (not only pure op-based) CRDTs,
due to the need for buffering messages by the reliable messaging middleware. If long partitions or
disconnected operation is the norm, state-based CRDTs are preferable.

16 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
5 STATE-BASED CRDTS
State-based propagation and conflict resolution. The state-based approach propagates replica states
to other replicas. If the self state and a received state conflict, they must be merged (reconciled) into
a new state reflecting the conflict resolution. In classic optimistic replication this was performed in
some ad hoc way, through a user-defined merge procedure.
Contrary to the operation-based approach, where each operation is immediately propagated,
propagating states, which can be large, is performed much less frequently. Also, as opposed to
the usual causal broadcast to a well known group of replicas in the operation-based approach,
state-based propagation can have many forms, e.g., through an epidemic propagation [28] to an
unknown set of participants. Given that states can be propagated in many different ways and arrive
at a replica in different orders, conflict resolution (merge) should be:
• deterministic: result as a function of inputs (current and received state);
• obviously a commutative function;
• associative: to give the same result when merging in different orders;
• idempotent: merging equal states produces that state;
• merging with an older state produces the current state;
• monotonic: merging with a “newer” state produces a “newer” state.
The solution is to adopt for the replica state the mathematical concept of join-semilattices [12].
We now present a very brief introduction to the concepts of order and lattices relevant for CRDTs.
5.1 Lattices and Order
Partially ordered sets (posets). A partially ordered set (poset), has a binary relation⊑ which is:
• (reflexive)𝑝⊑𝑝;
• (transitive)𝑜⊑𝑝∧𝑝⊑𝑞⇒𝑜⊑𝑞;
• (anti-symmetric)𝑝⊑𝑞∧𝑞⊑𝑝⇒𝑝 =𝑞.
Two unordered elements are called concurrent:
• (concurrent)𝑝∥𝑞⇔¬( 𝑝⊑𝑞∨𝑞⊑𝑝).
Some posets have a bottom (⊥), an element smaller than any other:
∀𝑝∈𝑃·⊥⊑ 𝑝.
Join-semilattices. An upper bound of some subset𝑆 of some poset𝑃 is some𝑢 in𝑃 greater or
equal than any element in𝑆:
∀𝑠∈𝑆·𝑠⊑𝑢.
If the least upper bound of𝑆 exists (an upper bound smaller than any other), it is called the join of𝑆,
denoted ˆ𝑆. For two elements, ˆ{𝑝,𝑞} is denoted by𝑝⊔𝑞. A poset𝑃 is a join-semilattice if𝑝⊔𝑞
is defined for any two elements𝑝 and𝑞 in𝑃. The join operator has the following properties:
• (idempotent)𝑝⊔𝑝 =𝑝;
• (commutative)𝑝⊔𝑞 =𝑞⊔𝑝;
• (associative)𝑜⊔(𝑝⊔𝑞) =(𝑜⊔𝑝)⊔ 𝑞.
Examples and non-examples of join-semilattices. Some examples of join-semilattices are:
• natural numbers N:⊑ =≤;⊔ = max;⊥ = 0;
• booleans B: False < True;⊔ =∨;⊥ = False;
• any totally ordered set (called a chain).
Some posets which are not join-semilattices are:
• unordered posets (called antichains), where all elements are incomparable;

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 17
Cartesian product𝐴×𝐵
(𝑎1,𝑏 1)⊑( 𝑎2,𝑏 2) =𝑎1⊑𝑎2∧𝑏1⊑𝑏2
(𝑎1,𝑏 1)⊔( 𝑎2,𝑏 2) =(𝑎1⊔𝑎2,𝑏 1⊔𝑏2)
(join-semilattices𝐴 and𝐵)
Lexicographic product𝐴 ⊠𝐵
(𝑎1,𝑏 1)⊑( 𝑎2,𝑏 2) =𝑎1 <𝑎2∨(𝑎1 =𝑎2∧𝑏1⊑𝑏2)
(𝑎1,𝑏 1)⊔( 𝑎2,𝑏 2) =
 

(𝑎1,𝑏 1) if𝑎2 <𝑎1
(𝑎2,𝑏 2) if𝑎1 <𝑎2
(𝑎1,𝑏 1⊔𝑏2) if𝑎1 =𝑎2
(𝑎1⊔𝑎2,⊥) if𝑎1∥𝑎2
(when𝐵 has a bottom or𝐴 is a chain)
PowersetP(𝑆)
⊑ =⊆
⊔ =∪
(set𝑆)
Function space𝐴→𝐵
𝑓⊑𝑔 =∀𝑥∈𝐴·𝑓(𝑥)⊑ 𝑔(𝑥)
(𝑓⊔𝑔)(𝑥) = 𝑓(𝑥)⊔ 𝑔(𝑥)
(set𝐴 to join-semilattice𝐵)
(map𝐾 ⇀𝑉 ,𝑉 with bottom, where missing keys
yield bottom is specially useful)
Fig. 10. Some classic lattice compositions.
• strings under prefix ordering (e.g., 𝑠𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑙 ⊑ 𝑠𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑒𝑠𝑡 ∥ 𝑠𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑒𝑟 ), where all concurrent
elements are not joinable.
Lattice compositions. An advantage of adopting (join-semi)lattices for the replica state is that
we can use standard lattice composition constructs for obtaining complex states from simpler
states. Some examples are given in Figure 10: the (Cartesian) product of two lattices, where join is
performed component-wise; the lexicographic product of𝐴 and𝐵, when elements are lexicographic
pairs, compared first by the left-side component and only by the right-side one to break ties, being
defined when𝐵 has a bottom or 𝐴 is a chain; the powerset of any set, being join the set union;
and the function space from any set𝐴 to lattice𝐵, where both comparison and join are performed
pointwise. Maps, where missing keys implicitly yield bottom can be considered a special case of
functions, being specially useful. These and other examples are presented by Baquero et al. [6].
5.2 Basics of State-based CRDTs
State-based CRDTs. Like for op-based CRDTs, in state-based CRDTs update operations are applied
locally, and queries can be answered from the local state. The essential difference is how knowledge
about operations is propagated. The propagation is indirect, through states: an operation updates
the local state; from time to time replicas send their full state to other replicas.
For this strategy to work, the essential aspect of state-based CRDTs is making the state to be
a join-semilattice. Replicas merge the received state using the join operator⊔. The properties of
join give state-based CRDTs very good fault tolerance in terms of messaging faults: they work in
unreliable networks subject to message loss, duplication, and reordering. Also, sending the full
state ensures causal consistency, as it ensures a transitive propagation of the causal past.
Update operations and state mutators. In the state-based model, update operations invoke a state
mutator, which returns the new state. A state mutator must be an inflation:
• (inflation)𝑥⊑ 𝑓(𝑥);

18 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
Inﬂations
f
g
identity
Fig. 11. Inflations vs monotonic functions.
• (strict inflation)𝑥 < 𝑓(𝑥).
This, together with join being used for merging states, gives the essential property that replica
states are always “going up” in the partial order, i.e., state evolves monotonically:
• when updates are locally invoked;
• when a remote state is received and merged through join.
Monotonic evolution of state is essential, and what gives nice fault tolerance properties: a newer
state always subsumes an older state; if a message is lost, a newer one will subsume it; an old
message can arrive as a duplicate causing no harm.
Inflations vs monotonic functions. Sometimes there is some confusion about monotonicity. Er-
roneously, many places say mutators need to be monotonic, when in fact mutators need to be
inflations. Being monotonic is not necessary nor sufficient, as illustrated in Figure 11: 𝑓 is an
inflation but not monotonic and𝑔 is monotonic but not an inflation. Decrement (𝑓(𝑥) =𝑥− 1) is
monotonic but not an inflation. What is monotonic is state evolution over time, as result of applying
mutators or join.
Reusing sequential data types. As for op-based CRDTs, for some data types we can have trivial
state-based CRDTs, with state and operations being the same as the corresponding sequential data
type. But for state-based CRDTs this is considerably more difficult. It is necessary that:
• the state is already a join-semilattice (can be ordered, if not already, to be one)
• update operations are inflations.
• update operations are idempotent;
One may think that another condition for reuse would be that that the sequential data type should
only have commutative operations, as for op-based CRDTs. This is not true. A counter-example is
a sequential data type, presented in Figure 12, whose state is a map from some unspecified set of
keys to integer values; with a single operation advance(𝑘), which makes the corresponding key
have a value at least one more than any other key, by increasing the value by the minimum needed
(possibly 0); and with a single query ahead(𝑘), which returns the set of keys with the maximum
value (an empty set for the initial state or a singleton afterwards, for sequential executions).
The update operation is not commutative as, starting from the initial state (empty map):
advance(𝑎); advance(𝑏) leads to {𝑎↦→ 1,𝑏↦→ 2},
and
advance(𝑏); advance(𝑎) leads to {𝑎↦→ 2,𝑏↦→ 1}.

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 19
Advancer⟨𝐸⟩ = 𝐸 ⇀ N
𝑠0 = {}
advance(𝑒,𝑠) = 𝑠{𝑒↦→ max{𝑠[𝑒], 1+ max{𝑣|( 𝑘,𝑣)∈ 𝑠∧𝑘 ≠𝑒}}}
ahead(𝑠) = {𝑘|( 𝑘,𝑣)∈ 𝑠∧𝑣 = max{𝑥|( _,𝑥)∈ 𝑠}}
Fig. 12. Sequential “advancer” data type, reusable as state-based CRDT.
But the original state (a map from some set to integers) is already a lattice, with join as the
pointwise maximum, and the update operation is an inflation and idempotent. We can simply reuse
the sequential data type state and operations and the original lattice join for merge. Concurrent
execution of the operations above would be:
advance(𝑎)|| advance(𝑏) leads to {𝑎↦→ 1,𝑏↦→ 1}.
This example is interesting as it shows that for this data type concurrent executions can lead
to states unreachable by any sequential execution. But this CRDT reuses the sequential data type
and preserves its sequential semantics, while converging and leading to reasonable outcomes
for concurrent executions: concurrent invocations of advance may lead to ties, unlike sequential
executions, which is a reasonable generalization of the sequential behavior.
In this example reuse was possible because the update operation, even though not commutative,
was an inflation and idempotent. All updates being inflations is obviously necessary for reuse.
Having to be idempotent is also easy to show, given the desire for permutation equivalence. Given
a non-idempotent inflation𝑜, the desired outcome for𝑜(𝑠)|| 𝑜(𝑠) is𝑜(𝑜(𝑠)), but
𝑜(𝑠)|| 𝑜(𝑠) converges to 𝑜(𝑠)⊔ 𝑜(𝑠) =𝑜(𝑠) <𝑜(𝑜(𝑠)).
So, the reuse of a non-idempotent operation from the sequential data type would violate permu-
tation equivalence. The simplest example of the impossibility of reusing non-idempotent operations
is the counter data type: while a sequential counter could be trivially reused as an op-based CRDT,
given commutativity, it cannot be reused for a state-based CRDT, given that increment is not
idempotent.
Grow only set. The classic example of a trivial state-based CRDT is the grow-only set (GSet),
shown in Figure 13: a set having only the add update, where all operations, whether mutator (add)
or queries (elements and contains) correspond to the original sequential data type operations, and
the state is simply a set, as for the sequential data type. Merging replica states is simply the set
union. This is possible because a set is a lattice and the only update operation (add) is an idempotent
inflation. This is an example of an anonymous CRDT, where there is no need for node identifiers in
the state.
Single-writer principle and named CRDTs. State-based CRDTs are less prone to have trivial
implementations, namely under the presence of non-idempotent operations. This precludes even
seemingly trivial data types, such as counters, from having correspondingly trivial state-based
CRDTs.
A powerful strategy in concurrent programming is the single writer principle. It amounts to each
variable being only updated by a single process, has long been used to obtain elegant designs, such
as the Bakery algorithm [51], and is specially relevant to the design of state-based CRDTs [31]:
• the state is partitioned in several parts;
• each replica updates a part dedicated exclusively to itself;

20 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
GSet⟨𝐸⟩ = P(𝐸)
⊥ = {}
add𝑖(𝑒,𝑠) = 𝑠∪{𝑒}
elements(𝑠) = 𝑠
contains(𝑒,𝑠) = 𝑒∈𝑠
𝑠⊔𝑠′ = 𝑠∪𝑠′
Fig. 13. State-based grow only set GSet⟨𝐸⟩
GCounter = I ⇀ N
⊥ = {}
inc𝑖(𝑚) = 𝑚{𝑖↦→𝑚[𝑖]+ 1}
value(𝑚) =
∑︁
𝑗∈I
𝑚[𝑗]
𝑚⊔𝑚′ = {𝑗↦→ max(𝑚[𝑗],𝑚′[𝑗])| 𝑗∈ dom𝑚∪ dom𝑚′}
Fig. 14. State-based GCounter
PNCounter = GCounter× GCounter
⊥ = (⊥,⊥)
inc𝑖((𝑝,𝑛)) = (inc𝑖(𝑝),𝑛)
dec𝑖((𝑝,𝑛)) = (𝑝, inc𝑖(𝑛))
value((𝑝,𝑛)) = value(𝑝)− value(𝑛)
(𝑝,𝑛)⊔( 𝑝′,𝑛′) = (𝑝⊔𝑝′,𝑛⊔𝑛′)
Fig. 15. State-based PNCounter
• the state is joined by joining respective parts.
Unique replica identifiers can be used to partition the state, which becomes a map from ids to
parts. CRDTs that use replica ids in the state can be called named CRDTs.
State-based GCounter. Contrary to op-based counters, state-based counters cannot use the trivial
sequential implementation, due to the non-idempotency of the increment operation. The state-based
GCounter, shown in Figure 14, makes use of the single writer principle. The state maps replica
identifiers to integers, the inc mutator for replica𝑖 increments the self entry (𝑖), and join is the
pointwise max. The counter is thus similar in structure to a version vector [67]..
State-based PNCounter. A positive-negative counter (PNCounter), having both increment and
decrement operations cannot have the same state as the GCounter, because decrement is not
an inflation. This is solved through a pair of GCounters (product composition): increments and
decrements are tracked separately. The counter value is obtained as the difference. This CRDT is
presented in Figure 15. (In practice, implementations use a single map to pairs.)

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 21
Survive
Removed
⊔
=
Fig. 16. Joining causal CRDTs.
5.3 Causal CRDTs
The problem of forgetting information. Many times we want to remove things. An example is
a set with add and remove operations. But as we must use inflations for state mutators, in this
set example, we cannot use a single set for the state and remove elements from it in the remove
mutator. So, while a grow-only set is trivial, this more general set is not.
A common approach to solve this limitation is to use tombstones to mark removal, but it has
the significant drawback of making the state grow forever. An example of such approach is the
2P-Set [77] (two-phase set) CRDT: it allows add and remove, but once removed, an element cannot
be re-added. The implementation uses a pair of sets, to track adds and removes, each set only
growing, making the state always growing and eventually large after some time, even when the
number of elements considered to be in the set is small.
Causal CRDTs. A general approach to allow removing information while avoiding tombstones is
used in Causal CRDTs [3], drawing inspiration from Dotted Version Vectors [69]. The state has two
components: a dot store and a causal context. The dot store (DS) is a container for data type specific
information; each information item is tagged with a unique event identifier, a dot, which is a pair
(replica-identifier× counter). The causal context (CC) represents the causal history: the ids of all
visible updates, normally encoded by a version vector.
Remark: a dot is not merely a unique identifier. Being unique would be enough for the op-based
ORSet CRDT, and could have different forms, such as a pair (Lamport-timestamp× replica-identifier),
or a UUID. A dot is a specific form of unique identifier, appropriate to be tested as belonging to a
compressed causal history in the form of a version vector.
Causal CRDTs have a pair of components for state but they are not independent, as in a Cartesian
product. The two components are related, conveying the knowledge that an information item with
identifier covered by the causal context and not present in the dot store has already been removed.
Joining causal CRDTs. To merge the information represented by two replica states, the join cannot
be the standard one for product composition, i.e., we do not have the lattice resulting from the
Cartesian product of the DS and CC components, but a more interesting one. The join is illustrated
in Figure 16. The dot store that results from a join of𝑥 and𝑦:
• has dots from𝑥’s DS not covered by𝑦’s CC;
• has dots from𝑦’s DS not covered by𝑥’s CC;
• has the dots present in both DSs.
The causal context upon a join is the join of the causal contexts.
Some dot stores. Being a dot store a container, we can have different types of such containers.
Three important dot stores are: DotSet – a set of dots; DotFun⟨𝑉⟩ – a map from dots to values in
some lattice𝑉 ; and DotMap⟨𝐾,𝑉⟩ – a map from keys in some arbitrary set𝐾 to a dot store𝑉 :

22 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
Causal⟨𝑇 : DS⟩ = 𝑇× CausalContext
⊔ : Causal⟨𝑇⟩× Causal⟨𝑇⟩→ Causal⟨𝑇⟩
when 𝑇 : DotSet
(𝑠,𝑐)⊔( 𝑠′,𝑐′) =((𝑠∩𝑠′)∪( 𝑠\𝑐′)∪( 𝑠′\𝑐),𝑐∪𝑐′)
when 𝑇 : DotFun⟨_⟩
(𝑚,𝑐)⊔( 𝑚′,𝑐′) =({𝑑↦→𝑚[𝑑]⊔ 𝑚′[𝑑]| 𝑑∈ dom𝑚∩ dom𝑚′}∪
{(𝑑,𝑣)∈ 𝑚|𝑑 ∉𝑐′}∪{( 𝑑,𝑣)∈ 𝑚′|𝑑 ∉𝑐},𝑐∪𝑐′)
when 𝑇 : DotMap⟨_, _⟩
(𝑚,𝑐)⊔( 𝑚′,𝑐′) =({𝑘↦→ v(𝑘)| 𝑘∈ dom𝑚∪ dom𝑚′∧ v(𝑘) ≠⊥},𝑐∪𝑐′)
where v(𝑘) = fst((𝑚[𝑘],𝑐)⊔( 𝑚′[𝑘],𝑐′))
Fig. 17. Join operator for causal CRDTs, considering each kind of dot store.
DotSet : DS = P( I× N)
DotFun⟨𝑉 : Lattice⟩ : DS = I× N ⇀𝑉
DotMap⟨𝐾, 𝑉 : DS⟩ : DS = 𝐾 ⇀𝑉
DotMaps are particularly powerful, as they allow map CRDTs which embed CRDTs as values:
DotMap⟨𝐾1, DotMap⟨𝐾2, DotFun⟨P(𝐸)⟩⟩⟩
Joining causal CRDTs – for different dot stores. We can now define the join operator for causal
CRDTs, considering the three kinds of dot stores above. The join, shown in Figure 17, simply returns
the dot store containing the appropriate surviving items, as illustrated in Figure 16, paired with the
join of the causal contexts.
Observed-remove set ORSet⟨𝐸⟩. To illustrate the power of causal CRDTs, we give the example
of a state-based observed-remove set, shown in Figure 18, where the state uses a DotMap from
elements to DotSets. The add mutator replaces, for the key corresponding to the element being
added, any set of dots by a new singleton. Remove simply removes the key from the map (domain
subtraction), with no need for the introduction of a new event in the causal context. The causal
context is in the form of a version vector. The join, not shown, is the previously defined for the
DotMap (and DotSet) case:
• it keeps concurrently added elements;
• it removes elements removed elsewhere if no dot survives.
Remark: although not needed (and not done here), it would be advantageous to generate a new
event, and advance the causal context, in a remove operation, even if there is no new dot being
stored. The cost would be minuscule, for a version vector representation of the causal context, and

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 23
ORSet⟨𝐸⟩ = Causal⟨DotMap⟨𝐸, DotSet⟩⟩
add𝑖(𝑒,(𝑚,𝑐)) = (𝑚{𝑒↦→{( 𝑖,𝑐[𝑖]+ 1)}},𝑐{𝑖↦→𝑐[𝑖]+ 1})
remove𝑖(𝑒,(𝑚,𝑐)) = ({𝑒} −𝑚,𝑐)
elements((𝑚,𝑐)) = dom𝑚
Fig. 18. State-based observed-remove set ORSet⟨𝐸⟩.
State-based
𝑋𝑖←𝑚(𝑋𝑖)
𝑋𝑖←𝑋𝑖⊔𝑋 𝑗
Delta-state based
𝑋𝑖←𝑋𝑖⊔𝑚𝛿(𝑋𝑖)
𝑋𝑖←𝑋𝑖⊔𝑑
Fig. 19. Normal state-based vs delta-state based approaches
it would allow trivially comparing replica versions by only comparing the causal context, without
the need to traverse the dot store, as in this implementation.
6 DELTA STATE CRDTS
Operation- vs State-based approaches. Operation-based approaches have small messages, but have
strong requirements from the underlying messaging layer: it does not work if messages are lost or
duplicated. On the other hand, state-based approaches work under weak messaging assumptions,
but send full states, which may have considerable sizes, causing a large messaging cost. Can we
have the best of both worlds?
Delta State CRDTs. In delta state CRDTs [3] the state is, like in normal state-based CRDTs, a
join-semilattice, but messages are built from delta-states, which are states, typically small, which
will make messages themselves hopefully small.
The essential difference is that a delta CRDT has delta-mutators, which return delta-states, to be:
1) joined with the current state; 2) joined with other delta-states, forming delta-groups𝑑, to send in
messages. For each mutator𝑚 of a state-based CRDT we can define a delta-mutator𝑚𝛿 such that:
𝑚(𝑋) =𝑋⊔𝑚𝛿(𝑋)
Figure 19 summarizes the approaches. While for normal state-based CRDTs mutators return
the next state (and need to be defined as inflations), for delta-state CRDTs delta-mutators return a
value (delta) to be joined to the current state (causing an inflation). Also, state-based CRDTs join
full states received as messages, while delta-state CRDTs join delta-groups (join of several deltas).
State vs delta-state – examples. For each given state-based CRDT we can define one (or more)
corresponding delta-state based CRDT. The state remains the same join-semilattice, and we only
need to define corresponding delta-mutators. Figure 20 shows two examples: a GCounter and
an ORSet. The corresponding delta-mutators returns, for the GCounter, a map with just the self-
entry for the replica, instead of the full map. For the ORSet, it returns a pair where the dot store
is a singleton or empty map, for add and remove, respectively, and the causal context has dots
representing just the element being added/removed, plus a new dot for add.
This means that delta-states will be typically very small, with either singletons or very small
sets. It also means that, unless an anti-entropy mechanism ensuring causal-consistency is used,

24 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
State-based GCounter
inc𝑖(𝑚) =𝑚{𝑖↦→𝑚[𝑖]+ 1}
Delta-state based GCounter
inc𝛿
𝑖(𝑚) ={𝑖↦→𝑚[𝑖]+ 1}
State-based ORSet⟨𝐸⟩
add𝑖(𝑒,(𝑚,𝑐)) =(𝑚{𝑒↦→𝑑},𝑐∪𝑑)
where𝑑 ={(𝑖, max𝑖(𝑐)+ 1)}
remove𝑖(𝑒,(𝑚,𝑐)) =({𝑒} −𝑚,𝑐)
Delta-state based ORSet⟨𝐸⟩
add𝛿
𝑖(𝑒,(𝑚,𝑐)) =({𝑒↦→𝑑},𝑑∪𝑚[𝑒])
where𝑑 ={(𝑖, max𝑖(𝑐)+ 1)}
remove𝛿
𝑖(𝑒,(𝑚,𝑐)) =({},𝑚[𝑒])
Fig. 20. State- vs delta-state examples: GCounter and ORSet.
durable state:
𝑋𝑖∈𝑆, CRDT state; initially𝑋𝑖 =⊥
volatile state:
𝐷𝑖∈𝑆, delta-buffer; initially𝐷𝑖 =⊥
on operation𝑖(𝑚𝛿)
let𝑑 =𝑚𝛿(𝑋𝑖)
𝑋𝑖←𝑋𝑖⊔𝑑
𝐷𝑖←𝐷𝑖⊔𝑑
on receive𝑗,𝑖(𝑑)
𝑋𝑖←𝑋𝑖⊔𝑑
𝐷𝑖←𝐷𝑖⊔𝑑
periodically
let𝑚 = choose𝑖(𝑋𝑖,𝐷 𝑖)
for 𝑗 in neighbors𝑖 do
send𝑖,𝑗(𝑚)
𝐷𝑖←⊥
Fig. 21. Naive propagation algorithm for delta CRDTs, for replica 𝑖.
causal contexts in replica states will not be downward closed and, therefore, not representable
by a version vector. (In this example causal contexts are a set of dots.) They can, nevertheless, be
represented in a compact way by a version vector plus some extra dots.
Naive delta propagation algorithm. As the standard state-based approach, delta-state CRDTs aim
for allowing arbitrary topologies. Therefore, a basic propagation mechanism aims for transitive
propagation of information. Such an algorithm is presented in Figure 21. It simply keeps a single
delta-buffer to broadcast to neighbors; upon some update joins the delta produced by the delta-
mutator to both CRDT state and delta-buffer; a delta-group received in a message is joined to both
CRDT state and delta-buffer; periodically, it broadcasts the delta-buffer to neighbors and resets it
to bottom. This algorithm would even ensure causal consistency under reliable FIFO messaging,
but it fails to ensure it under the weaker messaging guarantees desired for state-based CRDTs.
Unfortunately, this algorithm is too naive: the delta-buffer, even being periodically reset, easily
tends to grow and become the full state.
Problems with naive delta propagation. Unfortunately, the naive transitive propagation causes
much redundancy, which makes messages and buffers converge to the full state. Resetting the
buffer does not help if messages become large and get joined subsequently.
There are two main problems [32]: 1) deltas are re-propagated back to where they came from; 2)
a delta-group received is wholly joined to the local delta-buffer, even if it is already mostly reflected
in the state. The solution is a more sophisticated algorithm which: 1) avoids back-propagation

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 25
Join-irreducible
𝑥 = ˆ𝐹⇒𝑥∈𝐹
Join decomposition
𝐷⊆J( 𝐿)∧ ˆ𝐷 =𝑥
Irredundant join decomposition (IJD)
𝐷′⊂𝐷⇒ ˆ𝐷′ < ˆ𝐷
Unique IJD for distributive lattices
⇓𝑥 = max{𝑟∈J( 𝐿)| 𝑟⊑𝑥}
Difference
Δ(𝑎,𝑏) = ˆ{𝑦∈⇓𝑎|𝑦̸⊑𝑏}
Optimal delta-mutator
m𝛿(𝑥) = Δ(m(𝑥),𝑥)
Fig. 22. Join decompositions and optimal deltas.
of delta-groups, by tagging the origin of each message; 2) removes redundant state in received
delta-groups (already reflected in the local state). But how can this redundant state be identified?
Optimal deltas and smart propagation through join decompositions. The solution to the problem of
how to extract “new information” from a received delta-group and also to the fundamental problem
of how to define optimal delta-mutators (that produce the smallest delta possible) can be found in
results in lattice theory developed by Birkhoff [13], namely the concept of join decompositions.
The main concepts and results are summarized in Figure 22. An element is said to be join-
irreducible if it cannot result from the join of a finite number of elements not containing itself. A
join decomposition of some element𝑥 is a set of join-irreducible elements whose join produces𝑥.
An irredundant join decomposition (IJD) is when no element is redundant (removing any element
produces a smaller result when joined).
Birkhoff’s representation theorem establishes a correspondence between an element of a finite
distributive lattice and the downward closed set of the join irreducibles below it. This down set
is isomorphic to the set of its maximals, which is the unique irreducible join decomposition. (A
distributive lattice is a poset with not only the join but also its dual meet, and where one distributes
over the other.)
For most CRDTs, the state is not merely a join-semilattice, but a distributive lattice. Even if the
state normally belongs to infinite lattices, we can apply the result to CRDTs [32] applying it to
finite quotient sublattices. This allows obtaining the unique IJD of𝑥, as the maximals of the set of
irreducibles below𝑥.
Having unique IJDs, we can define the difference between two states𝑎 and𝑏: it is the join of the
elements in the unique IJD of𝑎 not below𝑏. (As an example, the difference becomes simply set
difference when the lattice is a powerset.) The difference to the current state can be used to extract
“new” information from a received delta-group, and the optimal delta-mutator can be defined as the
difference between what the original mutator produces,𝑚(𝑥), and the current state𝑥.
Inter-datacenter delta propagation in geo-replicated deployments. Delta propagation algorithms
for the general case of a network of nodes require considerable care to be efficient. But practical
deployments of CRDTs may be in specific more restricted scenarios, that can be exploited to simplify
communication. One such case is having just a few replicas, one in each of a small number of nodes
(e.g., datacenters) connected in a full mesh.
In this case, the system can run, by default, without transitive propagation: each replica will
only send its own deltas to all others. A few simple ingredients will allow an efficient causal
delta-propagation algorithm: merging only the self-issued deltas in delta-groups; starting a new

26 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
delta-group after applying a received remote one; keeping track (with a version vector) of the
logical time when each delta-group starts, to send it together with the delta-group; and delay
applying received delta-groups until causal dependencies are met. This avoids the need to perform
join-decompositions to achieve efficiency, as in a more general delta-propagation algorithm. It
amounts to performing a kind of causal broadcast, where the unit of propagation is a delta-group,
with the advantage of 1) allowing compression due to delta-merging; 2) the possibility of, given a
long network partition, discarding the delta-groups and falling back to sending the full-state when
the partition heals.
7 COMPARISON OF THE APPROACHES
A comparison of the approaches is now made, regarding issues such as open vs closed systems,
partition tolerance, state size (including the issue of amortizing metadata overhead over several
objects). A summary of these aspects (as well as other already discussed) is presented in Table 2.
We start by a taxonomy, discussing the dual nature of some CRDTs.
Taxonomy of CRDTs. Some CRDT cannot be state-based, as the state is not a join-semilattice,
not supporting merging states, or effect is not an inflation. On the other hand, any state-based
CRDT could be considered, vacuously, op-based, by defining prepare as the state mutator and
effect as the join operation. But this is not useful for taxonomy purposes and would make no sense
in practice. Therefore, we should classify as op-based CRDTs only those in which prepare does
not return the full state. Interestingly, delta-state CRDT implementations can be repurposed to
the op-based model, fitting this restriction, and can be considered to have a dual nature as both
state- and op-based. Given operation𝑜, corresponding delta mutator𝑚𝛿
𝑜 , and current state𝑠 we can
define prepare(𝑜,𝑠)
.
=𝑚𝛿
𝑜(𝑠) and effect
.
=⊔. This means that we can use op-based propagation for
delta-state CRDTs. It would be, however, typically worse, as no delta-merging before propagation
could be exploited, and delta-CRDTs do not need the stronger delivery guarantees used for op-based
propagation.
Conversely, for some op-based CRDTs the state happens to be a join-semilattice,prepare returns
an element of that lattice, and effect is the same for all operations and amounts to the lattice join.
Such CRDTs, even if originally defined under the op-based model, can switch to use a delta-based
propagation model (possibly requiring causal delta-propagation, depending on the case), gaining
flexibility and possibly higher efficiency, defining𝑚𝛿
𝑜(𝑠)
.
= prepare(𝑜,𝑠) and⊔
.
= effect. Going in
this direction is practically useful, not just a taxonomic curiosity. Some List CRDTs, discussed in
Section 9.2, have this dual nature and can choose either model.
Pure op-based CRDTs are a special case. In the naive form, without PO-Log compaction, have a
lattice for state (set of causally tagged operations) and the result of prepare, tagged with causality
information, can be considered a delta. We can define𝑚𝛿
𝑜(𝑠)
.
={(𝑡,𝑜)} and⊔
.
=∪, where𝑡 is the
causal timestamp assigned to operation𝑜. For this we need to expose the causal context present in
the TCB middleware to the CRDT, to generate timestamps at the source. This means that naive
pure-op based CRDTs can use a more flexible delta-state based propagation. They would typically
need causal delta propagation, for semantic reasons and also to make causal tagging simple. PO-Log
compaction can also be achieved in this model, but requires some care. Namely, we cannot simply
use the set of tagged operations for lattice as compaction would cause a deflation. This would cause
removed operations to reappear, incorrectly, upon a merge. But we can make the set of tagged
operations a Dot Store and, together with the exposed causal context obtain a causal CRDT, where
compactions become inflations, and merge works correctly.
Given these observations, we obtain the taxonomy of CRDTs presented in Figure 23.

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 27
pure op-based
delta-state based
state-based
operation-based
Fig. 23. Taxonomy of CRDTs, showing the dual nature of some CRDTs as both op-based and delta-state
based, including pure op-based CRDTs.
Table 2. Comparison between CRDT approaches.
operation-based state-based
general pure-operation standard delta-state
reuse sequential ADTs commutative ops idempotent inflations
open vs closed systems fixed set of participants dynamic independent groups
partition tolerance unsuitable for long partitions good
state size independent of replicas component linear with replicas
metadata amortization transparent (middleware) explicit (container)
message size normally small small large possibly small
messaging (usual) causal broadcast epidemic at-least-once
causal consistency from messaging for free needs care
causal stability useful important not available in general
Open vs closed systems. Operation-based CRDTs, using causal broadcast, assume a known set
of participants. Dynamic joining or retiring of replicas can possibly be done but it is a complex
operation, needing some care. But two independent groups of replicas that have evolved indepen-
dently cannot merge. (For realistic implementations, not considering naive implementations that
keep all history of operations, or without becoming effectively state-based CRDTs.) On the other
hand, state-based CRDTs suit an unknown set of participants, and allow trivial dynamic joining,
leaving or merging of independent groups of replicas. The only requisite, for named CRDTs, is to
have globally unique replica identifiers, a reasonable assumption.
Partition tolerance. Both kinds of CRDTs are network partition tolerant in terms of operations
being always available, locally, but a partition has significantly different consequences for each
case. In operation-based CRDTs there is a transient cost which is linear with the partition duration,
having to do with the need to store operations not yet delivered to all. Thus, they may be unsuitable
for large weakly connected systems prone to long partitions, which will cause unbounded memory
consumption. State-based CRDTs are better in this regard, as each replica is completely autonomous,
with no need to track individual operations. Each operation is immediately incorporated in the
state, and the approach works well even under long network partitions. State-based CRDTs are
thus more suitable for autonomous operation over unstructured networks with poor connectivity.
State size. Operation-based CRDTs can frequently have smaller states, independent of the number
of replicas, even having non-idempotent operations (e.g., a counter). This comes from the power
from delegating to a reliable message delivery mechanism. Even though the size can be in theory,
in the worse case, linear with the number of replicas, in practice that is not an issue. E.g., an ORSet
with replicas issuing concurrent adds on the same elements could have size temporarily linear

28 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
with the degree of replication, but in practice that would be unlikely to happen for a substantial
proportion of elements in the set at the same time; moreover, subsequent operations would reduce
state size, bringing it to an effectively constant small size per element.
State-based CRDTs assume the worst case of unreliable messaging. This leads normally to some
state component that grows linearly with the number of replicas. That may be very relevant, e.g.,
for a counter, where having a map from replica ids to integers is much more space than a single
integer; or less relevant, e.g., for a large set, implemented as a causal CRDT with a DotMap, where
the cost of the causal context pales in comparison with the large number of elements in the set and
where the meta-data cost per set element (a set of dots, frequently a singleton) is small. In general,
we can say that for small data types (scalar-like, e.g., counters, or small container-like, e.g., sets),
state-based CRDTs have significant overhead (linear with the number of replicas) while for large
container-like data types (sets, maps, lists) the overhead for state-based CRDTs becomes less of a
problem.
Amortizing metadata overhead over many objects. As several objects of a data type are frequently
used together, another question is whether the overhead in meta-data can be amortized over several
objects. In this respect there is some difference in the approaches. In operation-based CRDTs, the
cost (e.g., a version vector in some implementations of causal broadcast) is independent of the
number of CRDT objects and is amortized by all objects (even of different CRDT types) that use the
middleware. This cost can be almost none for operation-based CRDTs that do not require knowledge
about happens-before (like for counters, or that extract relevant information from the CRDT state
itself in prepare), e.g., using a causal broadcast based on a tree topology with FIFO channels [16],
that requires negligible metadata even for a large number of participants. Pure op-based CRDTs
cannot use this strategy, as they need knowledge about happens-before to be provided by the causal
broadcast middleware (prepare is unable to extract information from the CRDT state). State-based
CRDTs not only have non-amortizable metadata cost per object in some cases (like counters), but
cannot have a transparent amortization as op-based CRDTs can. For causal CRDTs (like an ORSet),
it is possible to amortize metadata cost over many objects, but only by explicitly putting those
objects inside a container. E.g., if we have many ORSets, it is possible to place them inside a map
CRDT, thereby sharing a single causal context over those many objects. But this is not transparent,
needs a refactoring effort, being undesirable from the software engineering perspective.
8 IDENTITY MANAGEMENT TOWARDS SCALABILITY
Apart from simple, anonymous CRDTs such as GSets, most CRDTs make use of unique replica
identifiers, with each replica using its own identifier to generate unique ids, in the form of dots, and
updating part of the state that “belongs to it”. Causal CRDTs use a causal context in the form of a
version vector, whose size is linear with the number of replicas. State-based counters have a similar
state. This makes the growth of maps where the keys are replica identifiers the main obstacle to
scaling CRDTs to a large number of participants. We discuss here some techniques that can be used
to address it.
8.1 CRDT-based Identity management
Identity containment and handoff. For CRDTs such as small ORSets or for counters, the size of the
set of ids determines the number of map entries and, therefore, the state size. Scaling a state-based
counter CRDT to many participants is a difficult problem. It was addressed in Handoff Counters [2]
by using a hierarchical structure, in which only the entries of the small number of replicas at tier 0
(e.g., datacenters) are propagated to all replicas. Any other state generated using the id of replicas
from other tiers is just temporary, being propagated under peer-to-peer interactions but remaining

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 29
contained, not propagated to the whole system, and being eventually garbage collected through
local interactions. The more intricate aspect is the handoff, which migrates accounted values
towards lower tiers, making all increments eventually be accounted in the entries for tier 0 ids.
This approach is more generally applicable to other data types with associative and commutative
operations.
Identity borrowing. Handoff Counters are considerably complex, and the generality of allowing
many tiers may not be needed. Borrow Counter [33] is a simpler proposal, being a Causal CRDT that
only distinguishes permanent replicas (typically servers) and transient replicas. A transient replica
𝑖 may ask a permanent replica 𝑗 to create a dot, based on the permanent replica id 𝑗, for𝑖 to use as
key in a map where to store increments within values. The transient replica may retire by flagging
borrowed dots as inactive, upon which they are able to be acquired by𝑗 and garbage collected. The
permanent state, namely the causal context, grows only with the number of permanent replicas.
Renaming operation unique identifiers. While the two previous approaches exploit the fungibility
of increments, causal CRDTs such as ORSets identify individual operations using dots. For these,
a possibility towards scaling, assuming a simple classification of replicas as clients or servers, is
to: 1) rename dots based on client ids to become based on server ids; 2) only propagate globally
the server-based dots. The causal context will only depend on the number of servers, achieving
scalability to many clients. This approach is still under research; Marubayashi and Baquero [58]
provide an example of a preliminary development.
8.2 Server-based identity management
Identity reuse and collapsing identities. Another possibility is to exploit system assumptions,
externally to CRDTs themselves. An example: clients obtain replicas from a central server/service to
use in a session involving peer-to-peer interactions; a client uses the replica during the session and
then relinquishes the right to use it, handing it back to the server. A strongly consistent service can
control replica use by clients, assign ids to clients, keep track of ids in use and the ones that became
inactive (when clients end sessions), and only assign new ids when no previously generated id is
inactive. This allows the size of the id set to grow only with the number of clients that concurrently
interact, and not the number of clients that have ever used the CRDT. This keeps the benefits of
CRDTs, namely allowing local peer-to-peer interactions. Partitions may only delay the possibility
of reusing an identity, which in the worst case will cause a new identity to be generated. Moreover,
if no session is active, for most state-based CRDTs that we discussed up to now, the server could
collapse all identities and dots into a single one. This would require an extra collapse operation to
be provided in the CRDTs which, e.g., for a counter would sum all the entries and return a map
with a single entry. We are not aware of these techniques having been described or if they have
been used.
9 PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS
CRDTs started being used in the industry for scenarios involving large scale or partition tolerance
in a distributed setting. Early examples were in the League of Legends [41] game by Riot Games,
using Riak CRDTs and implementing an Ejabberd CRDT library, and in SoundCloud’s Roshi [79], a
time-series event storage via a LWW-element-set CRDT. CRDTs also became supported in libraries
or frameworks. Akka is a popular framework for building distributed applications, with emphasis
on supporting the actor model, having added support [55] for state based CRDTs, both standard and
delta-state. An area that motivated much research and resulted in successful products was NoSQL
databases. Pre-CRDT NoSQL data stores, such as Amazon’s Dynamo, were difficult to use due to

30 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
the need for ad hoc reconciliation of concurrent writes. Another area of application where CRDTs
were successful has been collaborative editing. We now present examples in these two areas.
9.1 Databases
Following Amazon’s Dynamo, Riak [49] was one of the first successful data stores which added
support for CRDTs through Riak DT, which introduced several CRDTs, such as the Riak DT Map [18],
possibly the first map where values themselves could be state-based CRDTs. It also provided the
ORSet. Other applications were designed on top of Riak Core, such as Riak PG [59], a process
group registry for Erlang using ORSets. Riak DT ORSets were used successfully by bet365 [66], an
online gambling site, to scale their application. Redis is a very popular in-memory database with
an emphasis in being a data structure store. It added support for active-active geo-distribution and
CRDT-enabled databases [72]. AntidoteDB [4] is a database which served as reference platform
and applies research from two European Projects, SyncFree and LightKone. It provides highly-
available transactions and geo-replication together with CRDTs. A related database, SwiftCloud [71],
also supports transactions over CRDTs, while supporting client-side partial replication and local
execution. These systems allow transactions that read from causally consistent snapshots and apply
updates atomically, exploiting CRDTs to allow merging updates from different transactions. This
allows committing transactions that would have to abort under strong consistency requirements.
9.2 Collaborative editing – the List data type
Collaborative editing is possibly one of the best examples of a topic involving a non-trivial data
structure (List), where CRDTs achieved considerable success. The long line of research before
CRDTs faced many difficulties and failed to overcome problems for the non-centralized scenario in
a satisfactory way. It is well worth contrasting pre-CRDT and CRDT solutions for the List [5] data
type. A possible API contains two update operations: ins(𝑒,𝑘) inserts an element𝑒 at position𝑘
(index, starting from 0), and del(𝑘) deletes element at position𝑘.
Before CRDTs – Position Transformation. For the List data type, given two operations concurrently
issued at different replicas, applying them in different serial orders in different replicas does not lead
to convergence nor the intended result. The first approach to address this problem was to transform
an operation before applying it remotely, so as to obtain convergence and also the intended effect as
when it was issued at the originating replica. This approach became known as the OT (Operational
Transformation) approach, from the Distributed Operational Transformation (dOPT) [30] algorithm.
Transformations modify positions (indexes) of operations; e.g., an ins(𝑥, 5) issued at some replica𝑖
could be transformed to, say, ins(𝑥, 7) before being applied at another replica 𝑗, to maintain the
intended effect, given concurrent modifications at 𝑗 that inserted two elements before position 5.
Unfortunately, transforming operation positions appropriately turned out to be much more
difficult, complex and error-prone than expected. While it is relatively manageable under centralized
coordination [61], e.g., in Google Docs, it becomes dauntingly complex in the general case of non-
centralized peer-to-peer replica synchronization, which is important for local-first applications [48].
Problems with the original dOPT algorithm were identified by Ressel et al. [73]. They proposed a
framework involving two transformation properties (𝑇𝑃 1 and𝑇𝑃 2), to be satisfied by transformation
functions so as to ensure correctness. 𝑇𝑃 2 turned out very difficult to satisfy and Imine et al.
[45] showed that all initially proposed transformation functions did not satisfy it, and proposed
different transformation functions. Unfortunately, these were found to violate𝑇𝑃 2 and intention
preservation [54]. Another proposal [64] enforces both𝑇𝑃 1 and𝑇𝑃 2, by relying on maintaining a
tombstone when an element is deleted, defining Tombstone Transformation Functions.

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 31
CRDTs approaches – use immutable globally unique element identifiers. To avoid the complexity
and fragility of transforming positions, CRDT approaches assign globally unique identifiers to
elements, and use them in operations, instead of the position. These ids can be sent in messages
and used in other replicas to refer to elements, even if their position has changed. These ids can be
an explicit part of the API (“insert after element with id𝑥”), or they can be encapsulated in the data
type representation and retrieved before being sent in messages. In a position-based API an “insert
at position𝑘” can be implemented as “insert after id of element at position𝑘− 1”, or “before id of
element at position𝑘”, or “between the ids of elements at positions𝑘− 1 and𝑘”.
CRDT approaches to Lists use basically a growing set of operations involving unique ids for state
(even if in practice performance optimizations are done, such as having hash-tables and linked-lists).
They can be seen as both state-based CRDTs (state is a set) or operation-based CRDTs (propagate
operations and apply effect). As adding an operation to a set is idempotent, the operations can
also be seen as deltas, and exactly-once delivery is not needed. But as operations may refer to
ids in other operations in their causal past, practical implementations may need causal delivery.
Nevertheless, this dual state- and op-based nature allows these CRDTs to be used with either
kind of propagation; e.g., normally op-based propagation to have low latency of visibility, but also
allowing long partitions and offline editing, by updating local state and doing a state merge when
the partition heals.
Collaborative editing based on CRDTs has achieved notable success and is being used in popular
libraries, such as Automerge [24], based on RGA [74], and Yjs [46], based on a modified version of
YATA [62], with a list of over 40 applications using it. The two main variants of these approaches
use either some pre-existing dense total order or build a total order as operations are issued.
CRDTs with a dense total order of globally unique identifiers. A particular approach generates
ids from a totally ordered set. An insert becomes essentially generating an id between the ids of
the “before” and “after” elements. To make an insert always possible, this approach uses adense
total order, where for any two identifiers 𝑥 <𝑦, there exists a𝑧 such that𝑥 < 𝑧 <𝑦. A way to
have a dense domain is using lists for ids, representing paths in a tree. To ensure globally unique id
generation, element ids also contain replica ids, to tie-break when two replicas insert concurrently
at the same position. Some CRDTs which use this approach are Treedoc [70], Logoot [86], and
LSEQ [60]. A problem with these approaches is that the size of generated ids keeps growing over
time.
CRDTs that explicitly order unique identifiers. To avoid ever-growing element ids, some approaches
do not assign ids from a pre-existing dense total order, but: 1) use simple small globally unique ids,
such as pairs (replica id, counter), what we call a dot; 2) explicitly add ordering constraints (rules),
such as “(𝑖, 4) is before(𝑗, 6)”. Ordering constrains are only added but not changed or removed. A
delete operation does not remove the element or constraints but creates a tombstone. This allows
small sizes and simple convergence, considering the state as an ever growing set of operations and
immutable constraints. Some CRDTs that follow this approach are Woot [65], Causal Trees [36],
RGA [74]), and YATA [62]. A problem with these approaches is the accumulation of tombstones
in the state. Tombstone removal can be achieved resorting to causal stability. This is in fact done
algorithmically in RGA, without the authors using a term for it, while citing Golding [35] as already
introducing a safe condition for removal. In fact, that thesis discusses log pruning using classic
message stability (message received everywhere) and not causal stability (no more concurrent
messages delivered). This is another example of the confusion between these concepts.
Interleaving anomalies. The List data type also illustrates that achieving convergence maybe
the easiest part of a CRDT. Achieving, and even defining, the intended outcome given concurrent

32 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
updates can be far more problematic. Different List CRDTs can produce strange unintended out-
comes given concurrent updates. An example from Kleppmann et al. [47] is concurrent insertions
at the same positions: given an initial list “Hello!”, a user inserts “ Alice” before “!” (6 inserts)
and another user concurrently inserts “ Charlie” (7 inserts), also before “!”. Many CRDTs can
produce an outcome, after converging, such as “Hello Al Ciharcliee! ”, exhibiting aninterleaving
anomaly, when a more desirable outcome would be “ Hello Alice Charlie! ”. Moreover, this
anomaly is allowed by the specification in Attiya et al. [5], which Kleppmann et al. [47] argue being
too weak for collaborative editing, and propose a stronger specification. The anomaly manifests in
Logoot, LSEQ, Treedoc and Woot; a lesser anomaly occurs in RGA, if typing backwards. Weidner
and Kleppmann [85] present a detailed study of the interleaving problem as well as a CRDT (Fugue)
that solves it.
10 FINAL REMARKS
We came a long way from ad hoc optimistic replication. CRDTs offer a principled approach to
optimistic replication, achieving semantically meaningful convergence and causal consistency, two
main goals for partition tolerant systems. They avoid “losing concurrent updates” without requiring
concurrency control or transactions, and allow some desirable outcomes not possible if restricting
to sequential histories. Like sequential data types, they provide general useful abstractions, but
their usage may be more difficult, as they may embrace concurrency in their specification and
force programmers to think in terms of concurrency. Nevertheless, CRDTs have been successfully
applied in the industry, allowing systems with low response times even for large spatial spans.
The operation-based and state-based are substantially different approaches. The former is more
suitable to a known group of participants under good connectivity, and the latter is good for long
partitions, disconnected operation and independent groups of participants that eventually meet. The
op-based approach allows small messages, better reuse of sequential data types (with commutative
operations), and tends to have smaller state. The state-based approach results in typically larger
states and messages, leading to less frequent propagation, and less “fresh” data. This is partially
solved by the delta-state approach which, if using smart delta propagation, can potentially result in
smaller messages, allowing more “freshness”. The pure-op approach is a special point in the design
space of op-based CRDTs, demanding causality information from the middleware. It is limited
compared with the general op-based approach, as it cannot extract information from the state when
operations are invoked. Causal stability is an important ingredient in pure-op CRDTs, to optimize
state size, but nothing prevents it from being used in the general op-based approach, where it may
be useful, e.g., to discard tombstones, as it provides semantically useful information.
One frequent criticism is that it is difficult to obtain correct and efficient implementations. The
answer to such criticism is that, like for sequential data types, they need only to be implemented
by a few experts, while many practitioners can reap the benefits. This is the reason why, 70 years
after being invented, research still goes on in Hash Tables [9]. If CRDTs keep revealing themselves
useful, the need for research and implementation effort will not be the problem.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their comments which helped improve the paper.
This work is financed by National Funds through the Portuguese funding agency, FCT - Fundação
para a Ciência e a Tecnologia, within project UIDB/50014/2020. DOI: 10.54499/UIDB/50014/2020
REFERENCES
[1] M. Ahamad, G. Neiger, J. E. Burns, P. Kohli, and P. W. Hutto. “Causal Memory: Definitions, Implementation, and
Programming”. In: Distributed Comput. 9.1 (1995), pp. 37–49. doi: 10.1007/BF01784241.

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 33
[2] P. S. Almeida and C. Baquero. “Scalable eventually consistent counters over unreliable networks”. In: Distributed
Comput. 32.1 (2019), pp. 69–89. doi: 10.1007/s00446-017-0322-2.
[3] P. S. Almeida, A. Shoker, and C. Baquero. “Delta state replicated data types”. In: J. Parallel Distributed Comput. 111
(2018), pp. 162–173. doi: 10.1016/j.jpdc.2017.08.003.
[4] AntidoteDB. url: https://github.com/AntidoteDB/antidote.
[5] H. Attiya, S. Burckhardt, A. Gotsman, A. Morrison, H. Yang, and M. Zawirski. “Specification and Complexity of
Collaborative Text Editing”. In:Proceedings of the 2016 ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing, PODC
2016, Chicago, IL, USA, July 25-28, 2016 . Ed. by G. Giakkoupis. ACM, 2016, pp. 259–268.doi: 10.1145/2933057.2933090.
[6] C. Baquero, P. S. Almeida, A. Cunha, and C. Ferreira. “Composition in State-based Replicated Data Types”. In: Bull.
EATCS 123 (2017).
[7] C. Baquero, P. S. Almeida, and A. Shoker. “Making Operation-Based CRDTs Operation-Based”. In: Distributed
Applications and Interoperable Systems - 14th IFIP WG 6.1 International Conference, DAIS 2014 . Ed. by K. Magoutis
and P. R. Pietzuch. Vol. 8460. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer, 2014, pp. 126–140. doi: 10.1007/978-3-
662-43352-2_11.
[8] C. Baquero, P. S. Almeida, and A. Shoker. “Pure Operation-Based Replicated Data Types”. In: CoRR abs/1710.04469
(2017). arXiv: 1710.04469.
[9] M. A. Bender, A. Conway, M. Farach-Colton, W. Kuszmaul, and G. Tagliavini. “Iceberg Hashing: Optimizing Many
Hash-Table Criteria at Once”. In: J. ACM (Oct. 2023). issn: 0004-5411. doi: 10.1145/3625817.
[10] A. Bieniusa, M. Zawirski, N. M. Preguiça, M. Shapiro, C. Baquero, V. Balegas, and S. Duarte. “An optimized
conflict-free replicated set”. In: CoRR abs/1210.3368 (2012). arXiv: 1210.3368.
[11] A. Bieniusa, M. Zawirski, N. M. Preguiça, M. Shapiro, C. Baquero, V. Balegas, and S. Duarte. “Brief Announcement:
Semantics of Eventually Consistent Replicated Sets”. In:Distributed Computing - 26th International Symposium, DISC
2012, Salvador, Brazil, October 16-18, 2012. Proceedings . Ed. by M. K. Aguilera. Vol. 7611. Lecture Notes in Computer
Science. Springer, 2012, pp. 441–442. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-33651-5_48.
[12] G. Birkhoff. Lattice Theory. Colloquium publications. American Mathematical Society, 1940.
[13] G. Birkhoff. “Rings of sets”. In: Duke Mathematical Journal. 1937.
[14] K. P. Birman and T. A. Joseph. “Reliable Communication in the Presence of Failures”. In: ACM Trans. Comput. Syst.
5.1 (1987), pp. 47–76. doi: 10.1145/7351.7478.
[15] K. P. Birman, A. Schiper, and P. Stephenson. “Lightweigt Causal and Atomic Group Multicast”. In: ACM Trans.
Comput. Syst. 9.3 (1991), pp. 272–314. doi: 10.1145/128738.128742.
[16] M. Bravo, L. E. T. Rodrigues, and P. V. Roy. “Saturn: a Distributed Metadata Service for Causal Consistency”. In:
Proceedings of the Twelfth European Conference on Computer Systems, EuroSys 2017, Belgrade, Serbia, April 23-26,
2017. Ed. by G. Alonso, R. Bianchini, and M. Vukolic. ACM, 2017, pp. 111–126. doi: 10.1145/3064176.3064210.
[17] E. A. Brewer. “Towards robust distributed systems (abstract)”. In: Proceedings of the Nineteenth Annual ACM
Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing, July 16-19, 2000, Portland, Oregon, USA . Ed. by G. Neiger. ACM,
2000, p. 7. doi: 10.1145/343477.343502.
[18] R. Brown, S. Cribbs, C. Meiklejohn, and S. Elliott. “Riak DT map: a composable, convergent replicated dictionary”.
In: Proceedings of the First Workshop on the Principles and Practice of Eventual Consistency, PaPEC@EuroSys 2014,
April 13, 2014, Amsterdam, The Netherlands . Ed. by M. Shapiro. ACM, 2014, 1:1. doi: 10.1145/2596631.2596633.
[19] S. Burckhardt. “Principles of Eventual Consistency”. In: Found. Trends Program. Lang. 1.1-2 (2014), pp. 1–150. doi:
10.1561/2500000011.
[20] S. Burckhardt, A. Gotsman, and H. Yang. Understanding Eventual Consistency. Tech. rep. MSR-TR-2013-39. 2013.
[21] S. Burckhardt, A. Gotsman, H. Yang, and M. Zawirski. “Replicated data types: specification, verification, optimality”.
In: The 41st Annual ACM SIGPLAN-SIGACT Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages, POPL ’14, San
Diego, CA, USA, January 20-21, 2014 . Ed. by S. Jagannathan and P. Sewell. ACM, 2014, pp. 271–284. doi: 10.1145/
2535838.2535848.
[22] L. Cardelli and P. Wegner. “On Understanding Types, Data Abstraction, and Polymorphism”. In: ACM Comput. Surv.
17.4 (1985), pp. 471–522. doi: 10.1145/6041.6042.
[23] M. Castro and B. Liskov. “Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance”. In: Proceedings of the Third USENIX Symposium on
Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI), New Orleans, Louisiana, USA, February 22-25, 1999 . Ed. by
M. I. Seltzer and P. J. Leach. USENIX Association, 1999, pp. 173–186.
[24] A. contributors. Automerge. url: https://github.com/automerge/automerge.
[25] W. R. Cook. “On understanding data abstraction, revisited”. In: Proceedings of the 24th Annual ACM SIGPLAN
Conference on Object-Oriented Programming, Systems, Languages, and Applications, OOPSLA 2009, October 25-29, 2009,
Orlando, Florida, USA. Ed. by S. Arora and G. T. Leavens. ACM, 2009, pp. 557–572. doi: 10.1145/1640089.1640133.
[26] O. Dahl and K. Nygaard. “SIMULA - an ALGOL-based simulation language”. In: Commun. ACM 9.9 (1966), pp. 671–
678. doi: 10.1145/365813.365819.

34 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
[27] G. DeCandia, D. Hastorun, M. Jampani, G. Kakulapati, A. Lakshman, A. Pilchin, S. Sivasubramanian, P. Vosshall,
and W. Vogels. “Dynamo: amazon’s highly available key-value store”. In:Proceedings of the 21st ACM Symposium on
Operating Systems Principles 2007, SOSP 2007, Stevenson, Washington, USA, October 14-17, 2007 . Ed. by T. C. Bressoud
and M. F. Kaashoek. ACM, 2007, pp. 205–220. doi: 10.1145/1294261.1294281.
[28] A. J. Demers, D. H. Greene, C. Hauser, W. Irish, J. Larson, S. Shenker, H. E. Sturgis, D. C. Swinehart, and D. B. Terry.
“Epidemic Algorithms for Replicated Database Maintenance”. In:Proceedings of the Sixth Annual ACM Symposium on
Principles of Distributed Computing, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, August 10-12, 1987 . Ed. by F. B. Schneider.
ACM, 1987, pp. 1–12. doi: 10.1145/41840.41841.
[29] E. W. Dijkstra. “Self-stabilizing Systems in Spite of Distributed Control”. In:Commun. ACM 17.11 (1974), pp. 643–644.
doi: 10.1145/361179.361202.
[30] C. A. Ellis and S. J. Gibbs. “Concurrency Control in Groupware Systems”. In: Proceedings of the 1989 ACM SIGMOD
International Conference on Management of Data, Portland, Oregon, USA, May 31 - June 2, 1989 . Ed. by J. Clifford,
B. G. Lindsay, and D. Maier. ACM Press, 1989, pp. 399–407. doi: 10.1145/67544.66963.
[31] V. Enes, P. S. Almeida, and C. Baquero. “The Single-Writer Principle in CRDT Composition”. In:Proceedings of the
Workshop on Programming Models and Languages for Distributed Computing, Barcelona, Spain, June 20, 2017 . Ed. by
C. Meiklejohn and H. Miller. ACM, 2017, 4:1–4:3. doi: 10.1145/3166089.3168733.
[32] V. Enes, P. S. Almeida, C. Baquero, and J. Leitão. “Efficient Synchronization of State-Based CRDTs”. In:35th IEEE
International Conference on Data Engineering, ICDE 2019, Macao, China, April 8-11, 2019 . IEEE, 2019, pp. 148–159.
doi: 10.1109/ICDE.2019.00022.
[33] V. Enes, C. Baquero, P. S. Almeida, and J. Leitão. “Borrowing an Identity for a Distributed Counter: Work in progress
report”. In: Proceedings of the 3rd International Workshop on Principles and Practice of Consistency for Distributed
Data, PaPoC@EuroSys 2017, Belgrade, Serbia, April 23 - 26, 2017 . Ed. by A. Bieniusa and A. Gotsman. ACM, 2017,
4:1–4:3. doi: 10.1145/3064889.3064894.
[34] S. Gilbert and N. A. Lynch. “Brewer’s conjecture and the feasibility of consistent, available, partition-tolerant web
services”. In: SIGACT News 33.2 (2002), pp. 51–59. doi: 10.1145/564585.564601.
[35] R. A. Golding. “Weak-consistency group communication and membership”. PhD thesis. University of California
Santa Cruz, 1992.
[36] V. S. Grishchenko. “Deep hypertext with embedded revision control implemented in regular expressions”. In:
Proceedings of the 6th International Symposium on Wikis and Open Collaboration, 2010, Gdansk, Poland, July 7-9, 2010 .
Ed. by P. Ayers and F. Ortega. ACM, 2010.doi: 10.1145/1832772.1832777.
[37] F. Guidec, Y. Mahéo, and C. Noûs. “Supporting conflict-free replicated data types in opportunistic networks”. In:
Peer-to-Peer Netw. Appl. 16.1 (2023), pp. 395–419. doi: 10.1007/S12083-022-01404-6.
[38] P. B. Hansen. Operating System Principles. USA: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1973. isbn: 0136378439.
[39] M. Herlihy. “Wait-Free Synchronization”. In: ACM Trans. Program. Lang. Syst. 13.1 (1991), pp. 124–149. doi: 10.1145/
114005.102808.
[40] M. Herlihy and J. M. Wing. “Linearizability: A Correctness Condition for Concurrent Objects”. In: ACM Trans.
Program. Lang. Syst. 12.3 (1990), pp. 463–492. doi: 10.1145/78969.78972.
[41] High Scalability. How League of Legends Scaled Chat to 70 million Players . 2014. url: https://highscalability.com/how-
league-of-legends-scaled-chat-to-70-million-players-it-t.
[42] C. A. R. Hoare. “An Axiomatic Basis for Computer Programming”. In: Commun. ACM 12.10 (1969), pp. 576–580. doi:
10.1145/363235.363259.
[43] C. A. R. Hoare. “Monitors: An Operating System Structuring Concept”. In: Commun. ACM 17.10 (1974), pp. 549–557.
doi: 10.1145/355620.361161.
[44] C. A. R. Hoare. “Proof of Correctness of Data Representations”. In: Acta Informatica 1 (1972), pp. 271–281. doi:
10.1007/BF00289507.
[45] A. Imine, P. Molli, G. Oster, and M. Rusinowitch. “Proving Correctness of Transformation Functions in Real-Time
Groupware”. In: Proceedings of the Eighth European Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, 14-18
September 2003, Helsinki, Finland. Ed. by K. Kuutti, E. H. Karsten, G. Fitzpatrick, P. Dourish, and K. Schmidt. Springer,
2003, pp. 277–293. doi: 10.1007/978-94-010-0068-0_15.
[46] K. Jahns. Yjs. url: https://github.com/yjs/yjs.
[47] M. Kleppmann, V. B. F. Gomes, D. P. Mulligan, and A. R. Beresford. “Interleaving anomalies in collaborative
text editors”. In: Proceedings of the 6th Workshop on Principles and Practice of Consistency for Distributed Data,
PaPoC@EuroSys 2019, Dresden, Germany, March 25-28, 2019 . ACM, 2019, 6:1–6:7. doi: 10.1145/3301419.3323972.
[48] M. Kleppmann, A. Wiggins, P. van Hardenberg, and M. McGranaghan. “Local-first software: you own your data, in
spite of the cloud”. In: Proceedings of the 2019 ACM SIGPLAN International Symposium on New Ideas, New Paradigms,
and Reflections on Programming and Software, Onward! 2019, Athens, Greece, October 23-24, 2019 . Ed. by H. Masuhara
and T. Petricek. ACM, 2019, pp. 154–178. doi: 10.1145/3359591.3359737.

Approaches to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types 35
[49] R. Klophaus. “Riak Core: building distributed applications without shared state”. In: ACM SIGPLAN Commercial
Users of Functional Programming . CUFP ’10. Baltimore, Maryland: Association for Computing Machinery, 2010.
isbn: 9781450305167. doi: 10.1145/1900160.1900176.
[50] R. Ladin, B. Liskov, L. Shrira, and S. Ghemawat. “Providing High Availability Using Lazy Replication”. In: ACM
Trans. Comput. Syst. 10.4 (1992), pp. 360–391. doi: 10.1145/138873.138877.
[51] L. Lamport. “A New Solution of Dijkstra’s Concurrent Programming Problem”. In: Commun. ACM 17.8 (1974),
pp. 453–455. doi: 10.1145/361082.361093.
[52] L. Lamport. “Time, Clocks, and the Ordering of Events in a Distributed System”. In: Commun. ACM 21.7 (1978),
pp. 558–565. doi: 10.1145/359545.359563.
[53] B. W. Lampson and H. E. Sturgis. Crash recovery in a distributed data storage system . Tech. rep. Xerox Palo Alto
Research Center, 1979.
[54] D. Li and R. Li. “Preserving operation effects relation in group editors”. In:Proceedings of the 2004 ACM Conference on
Computer Supported Cooperative Work, CSCW 2004, Chicago, Illinois, USA, November 6-10, 2004 . Ed. by J. D. Herbsleb
and G. M. Olson. ACM, 2004, pp. 457–466. doi: 10.1145/1031607.1031683.
[55] Lightbend. Akka Documentation – Replicated data types . url: https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/typed/
distributed-data.html#replicated-data-types.
[56] B. H. Liskov and S. N. Zilles. “Programming with Abstract Data Types”. In: Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN
Symposium on Very High Level Languages, Santa Monica, California, USA, March 28-29, 1974. Ed. by B. M. Leavenworth.
ACM, 1974, pp. 50–59. doi: 10.1145/800233.807045.
[57] P. Mahajan, L. Alvisi, and M. Dahlin. Consistency, A vailability, and Convergence. Tech. rep. UTCS TR-11-22. Depart-
ment of Computer Science, The University of Texas at Austin, 2011.
[58] J. Marubayashi and C. Baquero. Making Causal Based CRDTs Scalable . INForum. 2023. url: https://inforum2023-
ylfd.vercel.app/Atas/paper_366/366-CM.pdf.
[59] C. Meiklejohn. “Riak PG: distributed process groups on dynamo-style distributed storage”. In: Proceedings of the
Twelfth ACM SIGPLAN Erlang Workshop, Boston, Massachusetts, USA, September 28, 2013 . Ed. by S. Vinoski and
L. M. Castro. ACM, 2013, pp. 27–32. doi: 10.1145/2505305.2505309.
[60] B. Nédelec, P. Molli, A. Mostéfaoui, and E. Desmontils. “LSEQ: an adaptive structure for sequences in distributed
collaborative editing”. In: ACM Symposium on Document Engineering 2013, DocEng ’13, Florence, Italy, September
10-13, 2013. Ed. by S. Marinai and K. Marriott. ACM, 2013, pp. 37–46. doi: 10.1145/2494266.2494278.
[61] D. A. Nichols, P. Curtis, M. Dixon, and J. Lamping. “High-Latency, Low-Bandwidth Windowing in the Jupiter
Collaboration System”. In: Proceedings of the 8th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology,
UIST 1995, Pittsburgh, PA, USA, November 14-17, 1995 . Ed. by G. G. Robertson. ACM, 1995, pp. 111–120. doi:
10.1145/215585.215706.
[62] P. Nicolaescu, K. Jahns, M. Derntl, and R. Klamma. “Near Real-Time Peer-to-Peer Shared Editing on Extensible
Data Types”. In: Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Supporting Group Work, Sanibel Island, FL, USA,
November 13 - 16, 2016 . Ed. by S. G. Lukosch, A. Sarcevic, M. Lewkowicz, and M. J. Muller. ACM, 2016, pp. 39–49.
doi: 10.1145/2957276.2957310.
[63] K. Nygaard and O. Dahl. “The development of the SIMULA languages”. In: ACM SIGPLAN Notices 13.8 (1978),
pp. 245–272. doi: 10.1145/960118.808391.
[64] G. Oster, P. Molli, P. Urso, and A. Imine. “Tombstone Transformation Functions for Ensuring Consistency in
Collaborative Editing Systems”. In: 2nd International ICST Conference on Collaborative Computing: Networking,
Applications and Worksharing, CollaborateCom 2006, Atlanta, GA, USA, November 17-20, 2006 . Ed. by E. Blanzieri and
T. Zhang. IEEE Computer Society / ICST, 2006. doi: 10.1109/COLCOM.2006.361867.
[65] G. Oster, P. Urso, P. Molli, and A. Imine. “Data consistency for P2P collaborative editing”. In: Proceedings of the 2006
ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, CSCW 2006, Banff, Alberta, Canada, November 4-8, 2006 .
Ed. by P. J. Hinds and D. Martin. ACM, 2006, pp. 259–268. doi: 10.1145/1180875.1180916.
[66] M. Owen. Using Erlang, Riak and the ORSWOT CRDT at bet365 for Scalability and Performance. Erlang User Conference.
2015. url: https://www.erlang-factory.com/euc2015/michael-owen.
[67] D. S. Parker Jr. et al. “Detection of Mutual Inconsistency in Distributed Systems”. In: IEEE Trans. Software Eng. 9.3
(1983), pp. 240–247. doi: 10.1109/TSE.1983.236733.
[68] M. C. Pease, R. E. Shostak, and L. Lamport. “Reaching Agreement in the Presence of Faults”. In: J. ACM 27.2 (1980),
pp. 228–234. doi: 10.1145/322186.322188.
[69] N. M. Preguiça, C. Baquero, P. S. Almeida, V. Fonte, and R. Gonçalves. “Dotted Version Vectors: Logical Clocks for
Optimistic Replication”. In: CoRR abs/1011.5808 (2010). arXiv: 1011.5808.
[70] N. M. Preguiça, J. M. Marquès, M. Shapiro, and M. Letia. “A Commutative Replicated Data Type for Cooperative
Editing”. In: 29th IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS 2009), 22-26 June 2009,
Montreal, Québec, Canada. IEEE Computer Society, 2009, pp. 395–403. doi: 10.1109/ICDCS.2009.20.

36 Paulo Sérgio Almeida
[71] N. M. Preguiça, M. Zawirski, A. Bieniusa, S. Duarte, V. Balegas, C. Baquero, and M. Shapiro. “SwiftCloud: Fault-
Tolerant Geo-Replication Integrated all the Way to the Client Machine”. In: 33rd IEEE International Symposium
on Reliable Distributed Systems Workshops, SRDS Workshops 2014, Nara, Japan, October 6-9, 2014 . IEEE Computer
Society, 2014, pp. 30–33. doi: 10.1109/SRDSW.2014.33.
[72] Redis. Diving into Conflict-Free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs) . url: https://redis.io/blog/diving-into-crdts.
[73] M. Ressel, D. Nitsche-Ruhland, and R. Gunzenhäuser. “An Integrating, Transformation-Oriented Approach to
Concurrency Control and Undo in Group Editors”. In: CSCW ’96, Proceedings of the ACM 1996 Conference on
Computer Supported Cooperative Work, Boston, MA, USA, November 16-20, 1996 . Ed. by M. S. Ackerman, G. M. Olson,
and J. S. Olson. ACM, 1996, pp. 288–297. doi: 10.1145/240080.240305.
[74] H. Roh, M. Jeon, J. Kim, and J. Lee. “Replicated abstract data types: Building blocks for collaborative applications”.
In: J. Parallel Distributed Comput. 71.3 (2011), pp. 354–368. doi: 10.1016/j.jpdc.2010.12.006.
[75] D. T. Ross and C. G. Feldmann. “Verbal and graphical language for the AED system: A progress report”. In:Proceedings
of the SHARE design automation workshop, DAC ’64, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA, May 6-7, 1964 . ACM, 1964. doi:
10.1145/800265.810743.
[76] Y. Saito and M. Shapiro. “Optimistic replication”. In:ACM Comput. Surv. 37.1 (2005), pp. 42–81. doi: 10.1145/1057977.
1057980.
[77] M. Shapiro, N. Preguiça, C. Baquero, and M. Zawirski. A comprehensive study of Convergent and Commutative
Replicated Data Types. Research Report RR-7506. Inria – Centre Paris-Rocquencourt ; INRIA, Jan. 2011, p. 50.
[78] M. Shapiro, N. M. Preguiça, C. Baquero, and M. Zawirski. “Conflict-Free Replicated Data Types”. In: Stabilization,
Safety, and Security of Distributed Systems - 13th International Symposium, SSS 2011, Grenoble, France, October 10-12,
2011. Proceedings. Ed. by X. Défago, F. Petit, and V. Villain. Vol. 6976. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer,
2011, pp. 386–400. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-24550-3_29.
[79] SoundCloud. Roshi. url: https://github.com/soundcloud/roshi.
[80] D. B. Terry, A. J. Demers, K. Petersen, M. Spreitzer, M. Theimer, and B. B. Welch. “Session Guarantees for Weakly
Consistent Replicated Data”. In: Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Infor-
mation Systems (PDIS 94), Austin, Texas, USA, September 28-30, 1994 . IEEE Computer Society, 1994, pp. 140–149. doi:
10.1109/PDIS.1994.331722.
[81] D. B. Terry, M. Theimer, K. Petersen, A. J. Demers, M. Spreitzer, and C. Hauser. “Managing Update Conflicts in Bayou,
a Weakly Connected Replicated Storage System”. In: Proceedings of the Fifteenth ACM Symposium on Operating
System Principles, SOSP 1995, Copper Mountain Resort, Colorado, USA, December 3-6, 1995 . Ed. by M. B. Jones. ACM,
1995, pp. 172–183. doi: 10.1145/224056.224070.
[82] P. Viotti and M. Vukolic. “Consistency in Non-Transactional Distributed Storage Systems”. In: ACM Comput. Surv.
49.1 (2016), 19:1–19:34. doi: 10.1145/2926965.
[83] W. Vogels. “Eventually consistent”. In: Commun. ACM 52.1 (2009), pp. 40–44. doi: 10.1145/1435417.1435432.
[84] M. Weidner and P. S. Almeida. “An oblivious observed-reset embeddable replicated counter”. In: PaPoC@EuroSys
2022: Proceedings of the 9th Workshop on Principles and Practice of Consistency for Distributed Data, Rennes, France,
April 5 - 8, 2022. Ed. by A. Szekeres and K. C. Sivaramakrishnan. ACM, 2022, pp. 47–52.doi: 10.1145/3517209.3524084.
[85] M. Weidner and M. Kleppmann. “The Art of the Fugue: Minimizing Interleaving in Collaborative Text Editing”. In:
CoRR abs/2305.00583 (2023). doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2305.00583. arXiv: 2305.00583.
[86] S. Weiss, P. Urso, and P. Molli. “Logoot: A Scalable Optimistic Replication Algorithm for Collaborative Editing on
P2P Networks”. In: 29th IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS 2009), 22-26 June
2009, Montreal, Québec, Canada . IEEE Computer Society, 2009, pp. 404–412. doi: 10.1109/ICDCS.2009.75.
[87] N. Wirth and C. A. R. Hoare. “A contribution to the development of ALGOL”. In: Commun. ACM 9.6 (1966), pp. 413–
432. doi: 10.1145/365696.365702.