PIR with compressed queries and amortized query processing
Sebastian Angel⋆†, Hao Chen‡, Kim Laine‡, and Srinath Setty‡
⋆The University of Texas at Austin †New York University ‡Microsoft Research
Abstract
Private information retrieval (PIR) is a key building block in
many privacy-preserving systems. Unfortunately, existing con-
structions remain very expensive. This paper introduces two
techniques that make the computational variant of PIR (CPIR)
more efficient in practice. The first technique targets a recent
class of CPU-efficient CPIR protocols where the query sent by
the client contains a number of ciphertexts proportional to the
size of the database. We show how to compresses this query,
achieving size reductions of up to 274×.
The second technique is a new data encoding called proba-
bilistic batch codes (PBCs). We use PBCs to build a multi-query
PIR scheme that allows the server to amortize its computational
cost when processing a batch of requests from the same client.
This technique achieves up to 40× speedup over processing
queries one at a time, and is significantly more efficient than
related encodings. We apply our techniques to the Pung private
communication system, which relies on a custom multi-query
CPIR protocol for its privacy guarantees. By porting our tech-
niques to Pung, we find that we can simultaneously reduce
network costs by 36× and increase throughput by 3×.
1 Introduction
A key cryptographic building block in recent privacy-preserving
systems is private information retrieval (PIR) [ 33]. Exam-
ples include anonymous and metadata-private communica-
tion [11, 58, 63], privacy-preserving media streaming [8, 49],
ad delivery [47], friend discovery [18], and subscriptions [31].
PIR allows a client to download an element (e.g., movie,
friend record) from a database held by an untrusted server (e.g.,
streaming service, social network) without revealing to the
server which element was downloaded. While powerful, PIR is
very expensive—and unfortunately this expense is fundamental:
PIR schemes force the server to operate on all elements in the
database to answer a single query [33]. After all, if the server
could omit an element when answering a query it would learn
that the omitted element is of no interest to the client.
We are interested in the computational variant of PIR
(CPIR) [57], which is desirable since it relies only on cryp-
tographic hardness assumptions and can be used even when the
database is operated by a single organization (we discuss alter-
natives in Section 2.1). Unfortunately, the costs of existing CPIR
constructions [8, 21, 24, 39, 56, 57, 60, 72] are so significant
that existing CPIR-backed systems must settle with supporting
small databases with fewer than 100K entries [8, 11, 47, 49].
In this paper we discuss two orthogonal but complemen-
tary contributions that make CPIR more efficient in practice.
The first is the introduction of SealPIR, a new CPIR library
that extends the most computationally-efficient CPIR protocol,
XPIR [8], with a new query compression technique that reduces
network costs (§3). Specifically, a query in XPIR (and its base
protocol [72]), consists of a vector of n ciphertexts, where n
is the number of elements in the server’s database. Stern [72]
showed that it is possible to reduce the number of ciphertexts to
d d√n for any positive integer d, thereby making network costs
sublinear in the size of the database. The downside of Stern’s
approach is that it comes at an exponential increase in the size
of the response (§3.4). As we show in our evaluation, values
of d> 3 in XPIR lead to responses that are so large that they
outweigh any reduction in query size (§7.1).
SealPIR adopts a fundamentally different approach. Instead
of creating a query vector, SealPIR has the client send a single
ciphertext containing an encoding of the index of the desired
element. The server then executes a new oblivious expansion
procedure that extracts the corresponding n-ciphertext vector
from the single ciphertext, without leaking any information
about the client’s index, and without increasing the size of the
response (§3.3). The server can then proceed with the XPIR
protocol on the extracted vector as before.
In terms of concrete savings over XPIR, SealPIR results in
queries that are 274× smaller and are 16.4× less expensive for
the client to construct. However, SealPIR introduces between
11% and 24% CPU overhead to the server (over XPIR) to obliv-
iously expand queries. We think this is an excellent trade-off
since XPIR’s protocol is embarrassingly parallel and one can
regain the lost throughput by employing additional servers. Fur-
thermore, reducing communication overhead makes PIR usable
in settings where clients have limited bandwidth, such as mobile
devices or wired connections with data limits [7].
Our second contribution is a new technique to amortize the
server’s CPU cost when processing multiple queries from the
same client. This technique is a relaxation of batch codes [52],
a data encoding that was originally proposed for this purpose.
In practice, most batch code constructions target a different
domain—providing load balancing and availability guarantees
to distributed storage [67, 69] and network switches [77]; using
these constructions to amortize the processing of a batch of PIR
queries is not worthwhile since they introduce high network
costs while yielding only modest CPU speedups (§4.1).
Our encoding, called probabilistic batch codes (PBC), ad-
dresses this issue at the expense of introducing a small prob-
ability of failure (§4.2). In the context of multi-query PIR, a
failure simply means that a client only gets some (not all) of her
queries answered in a single interaction. While the implications
of a failure depend on the application, we argue that in many
cases this is not an issue (§5). Moreover, the failure probability
of our constructions is low—about 1 in a trillion multi-queries
would be affected.
The key idea behind our PBC construction is a simple new
technique called reverse hashing (§4.3). This technique flips
1

the way that hashing (e.g., multi-choice [ 64], cuckoo [66]) is
typically used in distributed systems to achieve load balancing:
instead of executing the hashing algorithm during data place-
ment, it is executed during data retrieval . Like batch codes,
PBCs amortize CPU costs when processing a batch of queries.
Unlike batch codes, PBCs are more network-efficient: they in-
troduce orders of magnitude less network overhead (§7.3).
We demonstrate the benefits of our techniques through an ex-
perimental evaluation of several deployments that include well-
provisioned, bandwidth-limited, and geo-distributed clients
on databases of up to four million entries. We also integrate
SealPIR and PBCs into a recent private communication sys-
tem [11] that uses multi-query CPIR for its privacy guarantees.
In summary, the contributions of this work are:
• SealPIR, a CPIR library that reduces network costs through
a new oblivious query expansion procedure (§3).
• The design of PBCs, a new probabilistic data encoding use-
ful for building multi-query PIR protocols that amortize
computational costs (§4).
• The implementation and evaluation of SealPIR and PBC on
a variety of settings (§7), including porting these techniques
to the Pung communication system (§7.4).
Despite these advances, there remains a large performance
gap between CPIR implementations and widespread adoption.
Nevertheless, we hope that this work can usher a way forward.
2 Background and related work
We begin by giving some background on PIR and existing multi-
query proposals that relate to our work.
2.1 Private information retrieval (PIR)
Chor et al. [33] introduce private information retrieval (PIR) to
answer the following questions: can a client retrieve an element
from a database managed by an untrusted server (or set of
servers) without the server learningwhich element was retrieved
by the client? And can this be done more efficiently than simply
having the client download the entire database? Chor et al.’s
affirmative response inspired two lines of work: information
theoretic PIR (IT-PIR) and computational PIR (CPIR).1
In IT-PIR schemes [ 15, 33, 36, 37, 46] the database is
replicated across several non-colluding servers. The client is-
sues a query to each server and combines the responses from
all of the servers locally. IT-PIR schemes have two benefits.
First, the servers’ computation is relatively inexpensive (an
XOR for each entry in the database). Second, the privacy
guarantees are information-theoretic, meaning that they hold
against computationally-unbounded adversaries and avoid cryp-
tographic hardness assumptions. However, basing systems on
IT-PIR poses a significant deployment challenge since it can be
difficult to enforce the non-collusion assumption in practice.
On the other hand, CPIR protocols [ 8, 21, 24, 27, 39, 45,
56, 57, 59, 60, 78] can be used with a database controlled by
a single administrative domain (e.g., a company), under cryp-
tographic hardness assumptions. The drawback is that they
are more expensive than IT-PIR protocols as they require the
1Also known as multi-database PIR (IT-PIR) and single-database PIR (CPIR).
database operator to perform costly cryptographic operations
on each database element. Fortunately, there is a long line of
work to improve the resource overheads of CPIR (see [8, 56]
for the state-of-the-art), and recent work [ 8] proposes a con-
struction that achieves, for the first time, plausible (although
still high) computational costs. Unfortunately, this construction
has high network costs that scale unfavorably with the size of
the database. We discuss this protocol in Section 3.
Regardless of which PIR variant a system implements, the
concrete costs remain high. As a result, it is hard for systems to
support large databases or handle many requests. While support-
ing large databases remains out of reach—although Section 3
makes progress on this—supporting a batch of queries is the
focus of existing proposals. We discuss them next.
2.2 Existing multi-query PIR schemes
Given PIR’s high costs, it is desirable to amortize the servicing
of many requests. Such scenarios include databases that process
a batch of requests from the same user (e.g., Email, group chat,
bulletin boards). The most general approach to achieve this goal
is to use a batch code [52, 67, 69]. In a batch code, the database
is encoded such that the server (or servers) can respond to any k
requests (from the same user) more cheaply (computationally)
than running k parallel instances of PIR. The trade-off is that
batch codes require more network resources (than the k parallel
instances). In practice, this network overhead is onerous; we
discuss this further in Section 4.1.
Other existing proposals tailor the amortization to particular
PIR protocols or particular applications, as we discuss next.
Amortization for particular protocols. Beimel et al. [16] de-
scribe two query amortization techniques. The first is based
on the observation that queries in many PIR schemes consist
of a vector of entries, and answering these queries is equiva-
lent to computing a matrix-vector product (where the product
could be over ciphertexts instead of plaintexts, or it could be
an XOR operation). By aggregating multiple queries—even
from different users—the server’s work can be expressed as a
product of two matrices. As a result, subcubic matrix multi-
plication algorithms (e.g., [34, 73]) provide amortization over
multiple matrix-vector multiplication instances. This approach
is further studied by Lueks and Goldberg [62] in the context of
Goldberg’s IT-PIR scheme [46].
The second proposal described by Beimel et al. [ 16] is
to preprocess the database in certain IT-PIR schemes to re-
duce the cost of future queries. Since this works well, re-
cent projects [19, 26] employ an analogous approach in CPIR
schemes. However, making the preprocessed database acces-
sible by more than one client under these schemes requires
cryptographic primitives that are currently too inefficient to be
implemented (virtual black-box obfuscation [14] heuristically
instantiated from indistinguishability obfuscation [43]).
Several works [36, 48, 50, 51] extend specific PIR schemes to
achieve CPU or network amortization. Related to CPIR, Groth
et al. [48] extend Gentry and Ramzan’s [45] scheme to retrieve
k elements at lower amortized network cost by having the client
compute k discrete logarithms (with tractable but expensive
parameters) on the server’s answer. This results in low network
2

1: function SETUP (DB)
2: Represent DB in an amenable format (see [8, §3.2])
3:
4: function QUERY(pk, idx, n)
5: for i = 0 to n− 1 do
6: ci← Enc(pk, i == idx? 1 : 0)
7: return q←{ c0,... , cn−1}
8:
9: function ANSWER (q ={c0,... , cn−1}, DB)
10: for i = 0 to n− 1 do
11: ai← DBi· ci // plaintext-ciphertext multiplication
12: return a← Σn−1
i=0 ai // homomorphic addition
13:
14: function EXTRACT (sk, a)
15: return Dec(sk, a)
FIGURE 1—CPIR protocol from Stern [72] and XPIR [8] on a database
DB of n elements. This protocol requires an additively homomorphic
cryptosystem with algorithms (KeyGen, Enc, Dec), where (pk, sk) is
the public and secret key pair generated using KeyGen. We omit the
details of all optimizations. The client runs the QUERY and EXTRACT
procedures, and the server runs the SETUP and ANSWER procedures.
Each element in DB is assumed to fit inside a single ciphertext. Oth-
erwise, each element can be split intoℓ smaller chunks, and Lines 11
and 12 can be performed on each chunk individually; in this case
ANSWER would returnℓ ciphertexts instead of one.
costs, but Gentry and Ramzan’s scheme is computationally
expensive (tens of minutes to process a single PIR query, based
on our estimates); Groth et al.’s extension compounds this issue.
Amortization for particular apps. Popcorn [49] pipelines the
processing of queries in IT-PIR to amortize disk I/O, which is
a bottleneck for databases with very large files such as movies.
Pung [11] hybridizes an existing batch code due to Ishai et
al. [52] with a probabilistic protocol that exploits the setting of
online communication where users can coordinate a priori (e.g.,
chat, e-mail). This enables Pung to amortize CPU costs with
less network expense than traditional batch codes.
In contrast with the above, our multi-query scheme is ag-
nostic to the particular PIR protocol or application being used.
Compared to batch codes [52], our technique has weaker prop-
erties (sufficient for many applications) but is significantly more
efficient. Compared to Pung’s technique, our approach is more
efficient and application-independent (§4.2).
3 SealPIR: An efficient CPIR library
Our starting point for SealPIR is XPIR [8], a recent construction
that improves on Stern’s CPIR scheme [72]. We give a rough
sketch of the protocol in Figure 1. The key idea in XPIR is
to perform the encryption and homomorphic operations using
a lattice-based cryptosystem (the authors use BV [ 22]), and
preprocess the database in a way that reduces the cost of the op-
erations in Lines 11 and 12 in Figure 1. To our knowledge, this
makes XPIR the only CPIR scheme that is usable in practice.
A major drawback of XPIR is network costs. In particular,
the query sent by the client is large: in the basic scheme, it
contains one ciphertext (encrypting 0 or 1) for each entry in an
n-element database. Furthermore, lattice-based cryptosystems
operation CPU cost (ms) noise growth
addition 0.002 additive
plaintext multiplication 0.141 multiplicative ⋆
multiplication 1.514 multiplicative
substitution 0.279 additive
FIGURE 2—Cost of operations in SEAL [4]. The parameters used are
given in Section 7. Every operation increases the noise in a ciphertext.
Once the noise passes a threshold, the ciphertext cannot be decrypted.
For a given computation, parameters must be chosen to accommodate
the expected noise. ⋆While plaintext multiplication yields a multiplica-
tive increase in the noise, the factor is always 1 (i.e., no noise growth)
in EXPAND because it is based on the number of non-zero coefficients
in the plaintext [28, §6.2].
have a high expansion factor, F, which is the size ratio between
a ciphertext and the largest plaintext that can be encrypted; for
recommended security parameters, F≥ 6.4 [10, 28].
To improve network costs, Stern [ 72] describes a way to
represent the query using d d√n ciphertexts (instead of n) for any
positive integerd. Unfortunately, this increases the response size
exponentially from 1 to Fd−1 ciphertexts (Section 3.4 explains
this). If the goal is to minimize network costs, a value of d = 2
or 3 is optimal in XPIR for the databases that we evaluate (§7.1).
As a result, even with this technique, the query vector is made
up of hundreds or thousands of ciphertexts.
3.1 Compressing queries
At a high level, our goal is to realize the following picture:
the client sends one ciphertext containing an encryption of its
desired index i to the server, and the server inexpensively eval-
uates a function EXPAND that outputs n ciphertexts containing
an encryption of 0 or 1 (where the ith ciphertext encrypts 1 and
others encrypt 0). The server can then use these n ciphertexts as
a query and execute the protocol as before (Figure 1, Line 9).
A straw man approach to construct EXPAND is to create a
Boolean circuit that computes the following function: “if the
index encrypted by the client is i return 1, else return 0”. The
server then evaluates this circuit on the client’s ciphertext using
a fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) scheme (e.g., BV [22],
BGV [20], FV [40]) passing in values of i∈ [0, n− 1] to obtain
the n ciphertexts. Unfortunately, this approach is impractical.
First, the client must send log(n) ciphertexts as the query (one
for each bit of its index since the server evaluates a Boolean
circuit). Second, the Boolean circuit is concretely large (thou-
sands of gates) and expensive to evaluate. Finally, the server
must evaluate this circuit for each of the n possible indices.
Instead, we propose a new algorithm to implement EXPAND .
It relies on FHE, but perhaps surprisingly, it does not require
encrypting each bit of the index individually, working with
Boolean gates, or performing any homomorphic multiplications.
This last point is critical for performance, since homomorphic
multiplications are expensive and require using larger secu-
rity parameters (Figure 2). We note that the cryptosystem used
by XPIR (BV [ 22]) is an FHE scheme, so we could imple-
ment EXPAND using that. However, we choose to implement all
of SealPIR using the SEAL homomorphic library [4]—based
on the Fan-Vercauteren (FV) [40] cryptosystem—instead. We
3

make this choice for pragmatic reasons: EXPAND requires the
implementation of a new homomorphic operation, and SEAL al-
ready implements many of the necessary building blocks. Below
we give some background on FV.
Fan-Vercauteren FHE cryptosystem (FV). In FV , plaintexts
are polynomials of degree at most N with integer coefficients
modulo t. Specifically, the polynomials are from the quotient
ring Rt = Zt[x]/(xN + 1), where N is a power of 2, and t is the
plaintext modulus that determines how much data can be packed
into a single FV plaintext. In Section 6 we discuss how regular
binary data, for example a movie, is encoded in an FV plaintext,
and what these polynomials actually look like in practice.
Ciphertexts in FV consist of two polynomials, each of which
is in Rq = Zq[x]/(xN + 1). Here q is the coefficient modulus
that affects how much noise a ciphertext can contain, and the
security of the cryptosystem. When a plaintext is encrypted, the
corresponding ciphertext contains noise. As operations such
as addition or multiplication are performed, the noise of the
output ciphertext grows based on the noise of the operands and
the operation being performed (Figure 2 gives the noise growth
of several operations). Once the noise passes a threshold, the
ciphertext cannot be decrypted. The noise growth of operations
depends heavily on t, so t should be kept small. However, lower
t means that more FV plaintexts are needed to represent the
binary data (movie, etc.). Larger q supports more noise, but
results in lower security [ 28]. The expansion factor is F =
2 log(q)/ log(t). We discuss concrete parameters in Section 7.
In addition to the standard operations of a cryptosystem (key
generation, encryption, decryption), FV also supports homo-
morphic addition, multiplication, and relinearization (which is
performed after multiplications to keep the number of polyno-
mials in the ciphertext at two); for our purposes we care about
the following operations.
• Addition: Given ciphertexts c1 and c2, which encrypt FV
plaintexts p1(x), p2(x), the operation c1 + c2 results in a
ciphertext that encrypts their sum, p1(x) + p2(x).
• Plaintext multiplication: Given a ciphertext c that encrypts
p1(x), and given a plaintext p2(x), the operation p2(x)· c
results in a ciphertext that encrypts p1(x)· p2(x).
• Substitution: Given a ciphertext c that encrypts plaintext
p(x) and an odd integer k, the operation Sub(c, k) returns
an encryption of p(xk). For instance if c encrypts p(x) =
7+ x2 + 2x3, then Sub(c, 3) returns an encryption of p(x3) =
7 + (x3)
2
+ 2(x3)
3
= 7 + x6 + 2x9.
Our implementation of the substitution operation is based on
the plaintext slot permutation technique discussed by Gentry et
al. [44, §4.2]. Fortunately, substitution requires only a subset of
the operations needed by the arbitrary permutations that Gentry
et al. consider, so we can implement it very efficiently, as shown
in the last row of Figure 2. We give a detailed description of
substitution in Appendix A.1.
3.2 Encoding the index
A client who wishes to retrieve the ith element from the server’s
database using SealPIR generates an FV plaintext that encodes
this index. The client does so by representing i∈ [0, n− 1] as
the monomial xi∈ Rt. The client then encrypts this plaintext
to obtain query = Enc(xi), which is then sent to the server. We
later discuss how to handle larger databases for which the index
cannot be represented by a single FV plaintext (§3.5).
3.3 Expanding queries obliviously
To explain how the server expands query = Enc(xi) into a
vector of n ciphertexts where the ith ciphertext is Enc(1) and all
other are Enc(0), we first give a description for n = 2.
As discussed in the previous section, the server receives
query = Enc(xi), with i∈{ 0, 1} in this case (since n = 2) as
the client’s desired index. The server first expands query into
two ciphertexts c0 = query and c1 = query· x−1:
c0 =
(
Enc(1) if i = 0
Enc(x) if i = 1
c1 =
(
Enc(xi· x−1) = Enc(x−1) if i = 0
Enc(xi· x−1) = Enc(1) if i = 1
The server computes c′
j = cj + Sub(cj, N + 1) for j∈{ 0, 1}.
Since operations in Rt are defined modulo xN + 1, a substitution
with N + 1 transforms the plaintext encrypted by c0 and c1 from
p(x) to p(−x).2 Specifically, we have:
c′
0 =
(
Enc(1) + Enc(1) = Enc(2) if i = 0
Enc(x) + Enc(−x) = Enc(0) if i = 1
c′
1 =
(
Enc(x−1) + Enc(−x−1) = Enc(0) if i = 0
Enc(1) + Enc(1) = Enc(2) if i = 1
Finally, assuming t is odd, we can compute the multiplicative
inverse of 2 in Zt, say α, encode it as the monomial α∈ Rt,
and compute oj =α· c′
j. It is the case that o0 and o1 contain the
desired output of EXPAND : oi encrypts 1, and o1−i encrypts 0.
We can generalize this approach to any power of 2 as long
as n≤ N. In cases where n is not a power of 2, we can run the
algorithm for the next power of 2, and take the first n output
ciphertexts as the client’s query. Figure 3 gives the generalized
algorithm, and Figure 4 depicts an example for a database of 4
elements. We prove the correctness ofEXPAND in Appendix A.2,
and bound its noise growth in Appendix A.3.
3.4 Reducing the cost of expansion
One issue with EXPAND is that despite each operation being
inexpensive (Figure 2),O(n) operations are needed to extract the
n-entry query vector. This is undesirable, since EXPAND could
end up being almost as expensive to the server as computing
the answer to a query (see Figure 1, Line 9). We show how to
reduce this cost by having the client send multiple ciphertexts.
Stern [72] proposes the following modification to the protocol
in Figure 1. Instead of structuring the database DB as an n-entry
vector (where each entry is an element), the server structures
the database as a √n×√n matrix M: each cell in M is a
different element in DB. The client sends 2 query vectors, vrow
2Observe that xN + 1≡ 0 (mod xN + 1) and xN+1≡− x (mod xN + 1).
4

1: function EXPAND (query = Enc(xi))
2: find smallest m = 2ℓ such that m≥ n
3: ciphertexts← [ query ]
4: // each outer loop iteration doubles the number of ciphertexts,
5: // and only one ciphertext ever encrypts a non-zero polynomial
6: for j = 0 toℓ− 1 do
7: for k = 0 to 2j− 1 do
8: c0← ciphertexts[k]
9: c1← c0· x−2j
10: c′
k← c0 + Sub(c0, N/2j + 1)
11: c′
k+2j← c1 + Sub(c1, N/2j + 1)
12: ciphtertexts← [c′
0,... , c′
2j+1−1]
13: // ciphertext at position j encrypts m and all others encrypt 0
14: inverse← m−1 (mod t)
15: for j = 0 to n− 1 do
16: oj← ciphertexts[j]· inverse
17: return output← [o0,... , on−1]
FIGURE 3—Procedure that expands a single ciphertext query that
encodes an index i into a vector of n ciphertexts, where the ith entry
is an encryption of 1, and all other entries are encryptions of 0. We
introduce a new group operation Sub (see text for details). Plaintexts
are in the polynomial quotient ring Zt[x]/(XN + 1). N≥ n is a power
of 2, and n is the number of elements in the server’s database.
and vcol, each of size√n . The vector vrow has the encryption of
1 at position r, while vcol has the encryption of 1 at position c
(where M[r, c] is the client’s desired element). The server, upon
receiving vrow and vcol, computes the following matrix-vector
product: Ac = M· vcol, where each multiplication is between
a plaintext and ciphertexts, and additions are on ciphertexts.
Observe that Ac is a vector containing the encryptions of the
entries in column c of M.
The server then performs a similar step using Ac and vrow.
There is, however, one technical challenge: each entry in Ac
is a ciphertext, so it is too big to fit inside another ciphertext
(recall that the largest plaintext that can fit in a ciphertext has
size|ciphertext|/F). To address this, the server splits elements
in Ac into F chunks, so Ac can be thought of as a √n by F
matrix. The server can now repeat the process as before on the
transpose of this matrix: it computes AT
c· vrow, to yield a vector
of F ciphertexts, which it sends to the client. The client then
decrypts all F ciphertexts and combines the result to obtain
Enc(M[r, c]). The client can then decrypt Enc(M[r, c]) to obtain
M[r, c]—the desired element in DB. This scheme generalizes
by structuring the database as a d-dimensional hypercube and
having the client send d query vectors of size d√n. The server
then returns Fd−1 ciphertexts as the response.
We use the above scheme to reduce the computational cost of
EXPAND (in contrast, Stern and XPIR use the above technique to
reduce network costs by reducing the size of the query vector).
Instead of encoding one index, the client encodes d indices (on
different ciphertexts), one for each dimension of the database.
The server then calls EXPAND on each of the d ciphertexts, and
extracts a d√n-entry vector from each. The server uses the above
scheme with the extracted d vectors, which results in the CPU
costs of EXPAND being O(d d√n). Of course, this approach has
the downside that the PIR response gets larger because of the
Initial plaintext (encodes index 2): x2
x0 x1 x2 x3
Expand (j = 0)
Expand (j = 1)
Inverse
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 1 0
FIGURE 4—Example of EXPAND ’s effect on the FV plaintexts during
each iteration of the outer loop. Each array represents the coefficients
of the corresponding polynomial. Note that the server only sees the
ciphertexts (not depicted). This example assumes a database with 4
elements, and a query retrieving the third item.
cryptosystem’s expansion factor (F). Specifically, the network
cost is d ciphertexts to encode the indices, and Fd−1 ciphertexts
to encode the response. The good news is that for small values
of d (2 or 3), this results in major computational savings while
still reducing network costs by orders of magnitude over XPIR.
3.5 Handling larger databases
As we discuss in Section 3.3, the size of the query vector that
EXPAND can generate is bounded by N. Based on recommended
security parameters [10, 28], N is typically 2048 or 4096 (larger
N improves security but reduces performance). So how can one
index into databases with more than N elements?
We propose two solutions. First, the client sends multiple
ciphertexts and the server expands them and concatenates the
results. For instance, if N is 2048, the database has 4000 ele-
ments, and the client wishes to get the element at index 2050,
the client sends 2 ciphertexts: the first encrypts 0 and the second
encrypts x2. The server expands both ciphertexts into 2048-entry
vectors and concatenates them to get a 4096-entry vector where
the entry at index 2050 encrypts 1, and all others encrypt 0. The
server then uses the first 4000 entries as the query vector.
A more efficient solution is to represent the database as a
d-dimensional hypercube as we discuss in Section 3.4. This
allows the client to send d ciphertexts to index a database of
size Nd. For d = 2 and N = 4096, two ciphertexts are sufficient
to index 16.7 million entries. One can also use a combination of
these solutions. For example, given a database with 230 entries,
SealPIR uses d = 2 (so the database is a 215× 215 matrix), and
represents the index for each dimension using 215/4096 = 8
ciphertexts. The server expands these 8 ciphertexts and con-
catenates them to obtain a vector of 215 entries. In total, this
approach requires the client to send 16 ciphertexts as the query
(8 per dimension), and receive F≈ 7 ciphertexts as the re-
sponse (d = 3 would lead to 3 ciphertexts as the query, butF2
ciphertexts as the response).
In short, the query communication complexity goes from
O(Nd d√n) in XPIR to O(Nd⌈ d√n/N⌉) in SealPIR.
4 Amortizing computational costs in PIR
Answering a PIR query requires computation that is linear in
the size of the database, so a promising way to save computa-
5

tional resources is for the server to amortize costs by processing
a batch of queries. Batch codes [52] are a data encoding that,
among other applications, can be used to achieve this goal. In
particular, the server can use a batch code to encode its database
in a way that it can answer a batch of queries more cheaply
(computationally) than answering each query individually. Un-
fortunately, despite a large body of work on batch codes, we
find that most constructions do not focus on PIR amortiza-
tion. Instead, they target load balancing in distributed storage
systems [61, 67, 69] and network switches [ 77], which have
different requirements. Using these codes to amortize PIR query
processing would incur prohibitive network costs.
Our key observation is that certain guarantees of batch codes
are not necessary for many PIR-backed systems. Relaxing those
guarantees leads to constructions that are not only asymptoti-
cally better, but also concretely efficient—without compromis-
ing the functionality of our target system. Below we give a
description of batch codes, highlight the sources of overhead,
and then introduce our construction.
4.1 Batch codes and their cost
A (n, m, k, b)-batch codeB takes as input a collection DB of n
elements, and produces a set of m codewords, C, distributed
among b buckets.3 Formally,B : DB→ (C0,... , Cb−1), where
|Ci| is the number of codewords in bucket i, and the sum of
codewords across all buckets is m = Σb−1
i=0|Ci|≥ n. The goal of
these codes is two-fold. First, they ensure that any k elements
from DB can be retrieved from theb buckets by fetching at most
one codeword from each bucket. Second, they keep the number
of total codewords, m, lower than k· n.
Example. We describe a (4, 6, 2, 3)-batch code, specifically
the subcube batch code [52]. Let DB ={x1, x2, x3, x4}. For
the encoding, DB is split in half to produce 2 buckets, and
a third bucket is produced by XORing the entries in the first
two buckets:B(DB) = ({x1, x2},{x3, x4},{x1⊕ x3, x2⊕ x4}).
Observe that one can obtain any 2 elements in DB by querying
each bucket at most once. For example, to obtain x1 and x2, one
can get x1 from the first bucket, x4 from the second bucket, and
x2⊕ x4 from the third bucket; x2 = x4⊕ (x2⊕ x4).
This encoding is helpful for PIR because a client wishing
to retrieve 2 elements from DB can, instead of querying DB
twice, issue one query to each bucket. The server is in effect
computing over 3 “databases” with 2 elements each, which
results in 25% fewer operations.
Costs of PIR with batch codes. Figure 5 depicts the relation-
ship between the number of codewords (m) and the number of
buckets b, as a function of the database size (n) and the batch
size (k) for several constructions. In multi-query PIR, the client
issues one query to each of the b buckets, and therefore receives
b responses (§5). To answer these b queries, the server com-
putes over all m codewords exactly once; lower values of m
lead to less computation, and lower values of b lead to lower
network costs. Since m< k· n, the total computation done by
the server is lower than running k parallel instances of PIR. The
3We use different variable names (e.g., m and b) from the batch code literature
to avoid overloading variable names introduced in Section 3.
drawback is that existing batch codes produce many buckets
(see the third column in Figure 5). As a result, they introduce
significant network overhead over not using a batch code at all.
This makes batch codes unappealing in practice.
4.2 Probabilistic batch codes (PBC)
Batch codes have exciting properties, but existing constructions
offer an unattractive trade-off: they reduce computation but add
network overhead. We make this trade-off more appealing by
relaxing batch codes’ guarantees.
A probabilistic batch code (PBC) differs from a traditional
batch code in that it fails to becomplete with probability p. That
is, there might be no way to recover a specific set of k elements
from a collection encoded with a PBC by retrieving exactly one
codeword from each bucket. The probability of encountering
one such set (when elements are uniformly chosen) is p. In the
example of Section 4.1, this would mean that under a PBC, a
client may be unable to retrieve both x1 and x2 by querying
buckets at most once (whereas a traditional batch code guar-
antees that this is always possible). In practice, this is seldom
an issue: our construction has parameters that result in roughly
1 in a trillion queries failing, which we think is a sufficiently
rare occurrence. Furthermore, as we discuss in Section 5, this
is an easy failure case to address in multi-query PIR since a
client learns whether or not it can get all of the elements before
issuing any queries.
Definition 1 (PBC). A (n, m, k, b, p)-PBC is given by three
polynomial-time algorithms (Encode, GenSchedule, Decode):
• (C0,... , Cb−1)← Encode(DB): Given an n-element col-
lection DB, output a b-tuple of buckets, where b≥ k, each
bucket contains zero or more codewords, and the total num-
ber of codewords across all buckets is m = Σb−1
i=0|Ci|≥ n.
•{σ,⊥}← GenSchedule(I): Given a set of k indices I cor-
responding to the positions of elements in DB, output a
scheduleσ : I→{{ 0,... , b− 1}+}
k
. The scheduleσ gives,
for each position i∈ I, the index of one or more buckets
from which to retrieve a codeword that can be used to re-
construct element DB[i]. GenSchedule outputs⊥ if it cannot
produce a schedule where each i∈ I is associated with at
least one bucket, and where no buckets is used more than
once. This failure event occurs with probability p.
• element← Decode(W): Given a set of codewords W, out-
put the corresponding element∈ DB.
In the subsections ahead we describe an efficient PBC
construction. Our key idea is as follows. Batch codes
spread out elements such that retrieval requests are load bal-
anced among different buckets. Relatedly, many data struc-
tures and networking applications use different variants of
hashing—consistent [ 53], asymmetric [ 75], weighted [ 74],
multi-choice [13, 64], cuckoo [12, 66], and others [ 23, 38]—
to achieve a similar goal. While there is no obvious way to use
these hashing schemes to implement multi-query PIR directly,
we can do it indirectly: we first build a PBC from a simple
technique, which we call reverse hashing, and then use the PBC
to implement multi-query PIR (§5).
6

batch code codewords ( m) buckets ( b) probability of failure ( p)
subcube (ℓ≥ 2) [52, §3.2] n· ((ℓ + 1)/ℓ)log2(k) (ℓ + 1)log2(k) 0
combinatorial (
  r
k−1

≤ n/(k− 1)) [67, §2.2] kn− (k− 1)·
  r
k−1

r 0
Balbuena graphs [69, §IV .A] 2 (k3− k·⌈ n/(k3− k)⌉) 2(k3− k) 0
Pung hybrid⋆ [11, §4.4] 4.5 n 9k ≈ 2−20
3-way reverse cuckoo hashing (this work, §4.5) 3 n 1.5k ≈ 2−40
FIGURE 5—Cost of existing batch codes and the probabilistic batch code (PBC) construction given in Section 4.5. n indicates the number of
elements in the database DB. k gives the number of elements that can be retrieved fromDB by querying each bucket inβ(DB) at most once, where
β is the batch code. Building a multi-query PIR scheme from any of the above constructions leads to computational costs to the server linear in m,
and network communication linear in b. We list batch codes that have explicit constructions and can amortize CPU costs for multi-query PIR.
Other batch codes have been proposed (e.g., [61, 70, 71, 76]) but they either have no known constructions, or they seek additional properties
(e.g., tolerate data erasures, optimize for the case where n = b, support multisets) that introduce structure or costs that makes them a poor fit for
multi-query PIR. ⋆The scheme in Pung is neither a batch code nor a PBC since it relies on clients replicating the data to buckets (rather than the
server). It is, however, straightforward to port Pung’s allocation logic to construct a PBC.
〈1, A〉
h1(1)
h2(1)
〈2, B〉
h1(2)
h2(2)
〈3, C〉
h2(3)
h1(3)
1
A
1
A
2
B
1
A
2
B
3
C
FIGURE 6—Logic for two-choice hashing [13] when allocating three
key-value tuples to buckets:⟨1, A⟩,⟨2, B⟩,⟨3, C⟩. Tuples are inserted
into the bucket least full. Arrows represent the choices for each tuple
based on different hashes of the tuple’s key (here we depict an opti-
mistic scenario). The red solid arrow indicates the chosen mapping.
4.3 Randomized load balancing
A common use case for (non-cryptographic) hash functions is to
build efficient data structures such as hash tables or dictionaries.
In a hash table, the insert procedure consists of computing one
or more hash functions on the key of the item being inserted.
Each application of a hash function returns an index into an
array of buckets in the hash table. The item is then placed into
one of these buckets following an allocation algorithm. For
example, in multi-choice hashing [13, 64], the item is placed in
the bucket least full among several candidate buckets. In Cuckoo
hashing [66], items may move around following the Cuckoo
hashing algorithm (we explain this algorithm in Section 4.5).
An ideal allocation results in items being assigned to buckets
such that all buckets have roughly the same number of items
(since this lowers the cost of lookup). In practice, there is load
imbalance where some buckets end up having more elements
than others; the extent of the imbalance depends on the alloca-
tion algorithm and the random choices that it makes. To look
up an item by its key, one computes the different hash functions
on the key to obtain the list of buckets in which the item could
have been placed. One then scans each of those buckets for the
desired item. An example of the insertion process for hashing
with two choices is given in Figure 6.
Abstract problem: balls and bins. In the above example,
hashing is used to solve an instance of the classic n balls and
b bins problem, which arises during insertion. The items to be
inserted into a hash table are the n balls, and the buckets in the
hash table are the b bins; using w hash functions to hash a key to
w candidate buckets approximates an independent and uniform
random assignment of a ball tow bins. The number of collisions
in a bucket is the load of a bin, and the highest load across all
bins is the max load. In the worst case, the max load is n/w (all
balls map to the same w candidate buckets), but there are much
smaller bounds that hold with high probability [13].
Interestingly, if we examine other scenarios abstracted by the
balls and bins problem, a pattern becomes clear: the allocation
algorithm is typically executed during data placement. In the
hash table example, the allocation algorithm determines where
to insert an element. In the context of a transport protocol [54],
the allocation algorithm dictates on which path to send a packet.
In the context of a job scheduler [65], the allocation algorithm
selects the server on which to run a task. The result is that the
load balancing effect is achieved at the time of “data placement”.
However, to build a PBC, we must do it at the time of “data
retrieval”. Reverse hashing achieves this.4
4.4 Reverse hashing
We start by introducing two principals: the producer and the
consumer. The producer holds a collection of n items where
each item is a key-value tuple. It is in charge of data placement:
taking each of the n elements and placing them into buckets
based on their keys following some allocation algorithm. The
consumer holds a set of k keys (k≤ n), and is in charge of
data retrieval: it fetches items by their key from the buckets that
were populated by the producer. The goal is for the consumer to
get all k items by probing each bucket as few times as possible.
That is, the consumer has an instance of a k balls and b bins
problem, and its goal is to reduce the instance’s max load.
Note that the consumer is not inserting elements into buckets
(that is the job of the producer). Instead, the consumer is placing
“retrieval requests” into the buckets. The challenge is that any
clever allocation chosen by the consumer must be compatible
with the actions of the producer (who populates the buckets).
That is, if the consumer, after running its allocation algorithm
(e.g., multi-choice hashing) decides to retrieve items x1, x2,
and x3, from buckets 2, 3, and 7, it better be the case that
4Pung [11, §4.3] makes a similar observation but in a less general setting.
7

〈2,  〉
h1(2)
h2(2)
〈3,  〉
h2(3)
h1(3)
〈1, A〉
h1(1)
h2(1)
〈2, B〉
h1(2)
h2(2)
〈3, C〉
h2(3)
h1(3)
(a) consumer s simulation
(b) producer s allocation
2
 
2
 
3
 
1
A
1
A
1
A
2
B
2
B
1
A
1
A
2
B
3
C
2
B
1
A
3
C
FIGURE 7—Example of two-choice reverse hashing. (a) shows the
consumer’s simulation when inserting two tuples⟨2,⋆⟩,⟨3,⋆⟩. The⋆
indicates that the value is not known, so an arbitrary value is used. (b)
shows a modification to two-choice hashing where the producer stores
the tuple in all possible choices. This ensures that the final allocation
is always compatible with the consumer’s simulation.
the producer previously placed those elements in those exact
buckets. We describe how we guarantee compatibility below.
Protocol. The consumer starts by imagining that it is a pro-
ducer with a collection of k elements. In particular, the con-
sumer converts its k keys into k key-value tuples by assigning a
dummy value to each key (since it does not know actual values).
In this simulation, the consumer follows a specific allocation
algorithm (e.g., 2-choice hashing, cuckoo hashing) and popu-
lates the b buckets accordingly. The result is an allocation that
balances the load of the k elements among the b buckets (as we
discuss in Section 4.3). The consumer then ends its simulation
and uses the resulting allocation to fetch the k elements from
the buckets that were populated by the real producer.
Guaranteeing that the consumer’s allocation is compatible
with the producer’s actions is challenging. One reason is that
the consumer’s simulation is acting on k items whereas the
real producer is acting on n items. If the allocation algorithm
being used (by the consumer and the producer) is randomized
or depends on prior choices (this is the case with multi-choice
hashing schemes), the allocations will be different. For example,
observe that if a producer generates the allocation in Figure 6
it would not be compatible with the consumer’s simulation in
Figure 7(a) despite both entities using the same algorithm (since
the producer places the item under key “2” in the middle bucket,
but the consumer’s simulation maps it to the top bucket).
To guarantee compatibility we employ a simple solution:
the producer follows the same allocation algorithm as the con-
sumer’s simulation (e.g., 2-choice hashing) on itsn elements but
stores the elements in all candidate buckets. That is, whenever
the algorithm chooses one among w candidate buckets to store
an element, the producer stores the element in all w buckets.
This ensures that regardless of which k elements are part of the
consumer’s simulation or which non-deterministic choices the
algorithm makes, the allocations are always compatible (Fig-
ure 7(b)). Of course this means that the producer is replicating
elements, which defeats the point of load balancing. However,
PBCs only need load balancing during data retrieval.
4.5 A PBC from reverse cuckoo hashing
We give a construction that uses Cuckoo hashing [66] to allocate
balls to bins. However, the same method can be used with other
algorithms (e.g., multi-choice Greedy [13], LocalSearch [55])
to obtain different parameters. We give a brief summary of
Cuckoo hashing’s allocation algorithm below.
Cuckoo hashing algorithm. Given n balls, b buckets, and w
independent hash functions h0,... , hw−1 that map a ball to a
random bucket, compute w candidate buckets for each ball by
applying the w hash functions. For each ball x, place x in any
empty candidate bucket. If none of the w candidate buckets
are empty, select one at random, remove the ball currently in
that bucket (xold), place x in the bucket, and re-insert xold. If
re-inserting xold causes another ball to be removed, this process
continues recursively for a maximum number of iterations.
Construction. Let H be an instance (producer, consumer) of
reverse hashing where the allocation algorithm is Cuckoo hash-
ing with w independent hash functions and b bins (we discuss
concrete values for w and b later in this section). We construct
a (n, m, k, b, p)-PBC as follows.
Encode(DB). Given a collectionDB of n elements, follow H’s
producer algorithm to allocate the n elements to the b buckets
using the indices in DB as keys and the elements as values. This
results in m = wn total elements distributed (not necessarily
evenly) across the b buckets. Return the buckets.
GenSchedule(I). Given a set of indices I, follow H’s con-
sumer algorithm to allocate thek indices to theb buckets. Return
the mapping of indices to buckets. If more than one index maps
to the same bucket (i.e., if there are collisions), return⊥ instead.
Decode(W). Since Encode performs only replication, all
codewords are elements in DB and require no decoding. Fur-
thermore,σ, which is returned by GenSchedule, has only one
entry for each index. As a result,W contains only one codeword.
Decode returns that codeword.
Concrete parameters. Analyzing the exact failure probabil-
ity of Cuckoo hashing, and determining the constant factors,
remains an open problem (see [42] for recent progress). How-
ever, several works [ 29, 68] have estimated this probability
empirically for different parameter configurations. Following
the analysis in [29, §4.2], we choose w = 3 and b = 1.5k. In
this setting, the failure probability is estimated to be p≈ 2−40
for k> 200 (for smaller k it is closer to 2−20). This means that,
assuming the mapping from indices to buckets is random, the
probability that GenSchedule(I) returns⊥ for a set of indices
I chosen independently from the hash functions is p. Figure 5
compares this result with existing batch code constructions and
the scheme proposed in Pung [11, §4.4].
8

1: function SETUP (DB)
2: (C0,... , Cb−1)← Encode(DB)
3: for j = 0 to b− 1 do
4: SETUP (Cj) // See Fig. 1, Line 1
5:
6: function MULTIQUERY(pk, I,{|C0|,... ,|Cb−1|})
7: σ← GenSchedule(I)
8: ifσ̸=⊥ then
9: // get an element for each bucket
10: // pick a random index if the bucket is not used inσ
11: for j = 0 to b− 1 do
12: idxj← index for bucket j (based onσ andO)
13: qj← QUERY(pk, idxj,|Cj|) // see Fig. 1, Line 4
14: return q← (q0,... , qb−1)
15: else Deal with failure (see §5)
16:
17: function MULTIANSWER (q, (C0,... , Cb−1))
18: for j = 0 to b− 1 do
19: aj← ANSWER (qj, Cj) // see Fig. 1, Line 9
20: return a← (a0,... , ab−1)
21:
22: function MULTIEXTRACT (sk, a, I,σ)
23: // extract the codewords from the provided PIR answers into cw
24: for j = 0 to b− 1 do
25: cwj← EXTRACT (sk, aj) // see Fig. 1, Line 14
26: // select codewords from cw that are relevant to each index in I
27: for i = 0 in k− 1 do
28: W← codewords from cw (based onσ[Ii])
29: ei← Decode(W)
30: return (e0,... , ek−1)
FIGURE 8—Multi-query CPIR protocol based on a CPIR protocol and
a PBC (Encode, GenSchedule, Decode). I is the set of k desired
indices and|Ci| is the size of bucket i. This protocol assumes a CPIR
scheme with the API given in Figure 1.
5 Multi-query PIR from PBCs
We give the pseudocode for a PBC-based multi-query PIR
scheme in Figure 8. At a high level, the server encodes its
database by calling the PBC’sEncode procedure. This produces
a set of buckets, each of which can be treated as an independent
database on which clients can perform PIR. A client who wishes
to retrieve elements at indices I ={i0,... , ik−1} can then lo-
cally call GenSchedule(I) to obtain a scheduleσ. This schedule
states, for each index, the bucket from which to retrieve an el-
ement using PIR. Because of the semantics of GenSchedule
it is guaranteed that no bucket is queried more than once (or
σ =⊥). As a result, the client can run one instance of PIR on
each bucket. However, a challenge is determiningwhich index
to retrieve from each bucket: by assumption (of PIR) the client
knows the index in DB, but this has no relation to the index of
that same element in each bucket. To address this, we introduce
an oracleO that provides this information (we discuss it below).
If the client has nothing to retrieve from a given bucket, the
client simply queries a random index for that bucket.
Constructing the oracleO. There are several ways that the
client can constructO. The simplest solution is to obtain the
mapping from each index in DB to the corresponding indices
in each bucket. While this might sound unreasonable, observe
that PIR has an implicit assumption that the client knows the
index in DB of the desired element. The client could use the
same technique to obtain the corresponding w indices inB(DB).
For example, in the Pung communication system [11], clients
obtain this mapping in a succinct Bloom filter [17].
Another option is for the client to fetch elements in PIR not
by index but by a label using PIR-by-keywords [32]. Examples
of labels include the name or UUID of a movie, the index in the
original DB (in this case elements would need to be stored as
key-value tuples, where the key is the label). One last option is
for the clients to constructO directly. This requires the server
to share with clients its source of randomness (e.g., a PRF seed).
Clients can then simulate the server’s encoding procedure on a
database of n dummy elements (replicating each element into w
candidate buckets), which yieldsO. Furthermore, this process
is incremental for many hashing schemes: if a client hasO for
an n-element database, it can constructO for a database with
n + 1 elements by simulating the insertion of the last element.
Malicious placement of elements. In cases where the server
is malicious—rather than semi-honest (or honest but curious)—
the server has full control over where to place elements. As a
result, the server could place specific elements at indices that
can never be retrieved together (i.e., at sets of indices whereGen-
Schedule returns⊥). This opens the door to attacks where the
server selectively makes certain combinations of elements not
retrievable in hopes of observing a client’s reaction and breaking
the privacy guarantees. Note that a similar attack already exists
in the single-query PIR case: the server can selectively place
an incorrect element (or garbage) at a particular index and can
wait to see if a client complains or not (thereby learning that the
index that the client requested was one that contained garbage
or not). To address this style of “selective failure” attacks, addi-
tional mechanisms are needed. A common solution is to ensure
that a client’s reaction remains independent of whether or not
queries succeed. This guarantees that the attack does not violate
privacy. Instead, it violates availability, which a malicious server
could violate anyway by not answering queries.
Dealing with failures in the schedule. If the PBC being used
has p> 0, then it is possible that for a client’s choice of indices,
σ =⊥. In this case, the client is unable to fetch all k elements
that it wishes to retrieve privately. However, notice that the
client learns of this fact before issuing any PIR query (see
Figure 8, Line 8). As a result, the client has a few options. First,
the client can adjust its set of indices (i.e., choose different
elements to retrieve). This is possible in applications where the
client needs to retrieve more than a batch of k items. Second,
the client can retrieve a subset of the elements. In a messaging
application, this would mean that the client would not retrieve
all unread messages. In many cases, this is acceptable since
messages may not be ephemeral so the client can try again at
a later time (presumably with a new set of indices). Lastly, the
client can fail silently. Which of these strategies is taken by a
client depends on the application. In any case, it is imperative
that the application’s failure-handling logic is designed to not
reveal information about a client’s indices.
9

6 Implementation
SealPIR implements XPIR’s protocol [8] atop the SEAL homo-
morphic encryption library [4] (version 2.3.0-4). This is around
2,000 lines of C++ and Rust. The most intricate component is
EXPAND (Figure 3) which requires the substitution homomor-
phic operation (§3.1). We implement this operation in SEAL
by porting the Galois group actions algorithm from Gentry et
al. [44, §4.2]. We discuss this in detail in Appendix A.1.
SealPIR exposes the API in Figure 1. A difference with XPIR
is that substitution requires auxiliary cryptographic material
to be generated by the client and be sent to the server (see
Appendix A.1). However, a client can reuse this material across
all of its requests and it is relatively small (2.9 MB per client).
Encoding elements as FV plaintexts. In SealPIR, an FV
plaintext is represented as an array of 64-bit integers, where
each integer is mod t. Each element in the array represents
a coefficient of the corresponding polynomial. We encode an
element e∈ DB into an FV plaintexts p(x) by storing log(t)
bits of e into each coefficient of p(x). If elements are small, we
store many elements into a single FV plaintext (for example,
the first element is stored in the first 20 coefficients, etc.). This
reduces the total number of FV plaintexts in the database, and
consequently the computational costs of PIR.
Optimization to EXPAND . In FV , an encryption of 2ℓ
(mod 2y), for y ≥ ℓ, is equivalent to an encryption of 1
(mod 2y−ℓ). Observe that in Lines 14–16 of Figure 3, EXPAND
multiplies the n ciphertexts by the inverse of m where m = 2ℓ
(the goal of this multiplication is to ensure that all ciphertexts
encrypt either 0 or 1). Instead, we change the plaintext modulus
of the n ciphertexts from t = 2y to t′ = 2y−ℓ, which allows
us to avoid the plaintext multiplications and the inversion, and
reduces the noise growth of EXPAND . The result is n− 1 ci-
phertexts encrypting 0, and one ciphertext encrypting 1, as we
expect. This optimization requires t to be divisible by m rather
than being an odd integer. One drawback is that the server must
represent the database using FV plaintexts defined with the
plaintext modulus t′ (rather than t). As a result, we can pack
fewer database elements into a single FV plaintext.
To set t′, we find the largest integer value oflog(t′) for which
the following inequality holds:
log(t′) +⌈log(⌈ d
√nfv⌉)⌉≤ log(t) (1)
nfv =⌈n/α⌉
α =⌊N log(t′)/β⌋
Here α is the number of elements of size β bits that can be
packed into a single FV plaintext, and nfv is the number of FV
plaintexts needed to represent n elements of sizeβ.
Implementation of PBCs. We also implement mPIR, a multi-
query PIR library based on PBCs. mPIR implements 5 different
PBC constructions based on reverse hashing (§4.4) with dif-
ferent allocation algorithms (e.g., two-choice hashing, Cuckoo
hashing, the Hybrid allocation scheme in Pung [ 11]). This li-
brary works transparently on top of both XPIR and SealPIR,
and is written in 1,700 lines of Rust. It uses SHA-256 with
varying counters to implement the different hash functions.
7 Evaluation
Our evaluation answers four questions:
1. What are the concrete resource costs of SealPIR, and how
do they compare to XPIR?
2. What is the throughput and latency achieved by SealPIR
under different deployment scenarios?
3. What are the concrete benefits provided by PBCs, and how
do they compare to existing batch codes?
4. What is the impact of using SealPIR and mPIR on a repre-
sentative system?
Experimental setup. We run our experiments using Mi-
crosoft’s Azure instances in three data centers: West US, South
India, and West Europe. We run the PIR servers on H16 in-
stances (16-core 3.6 GHz Intel Xeon E5-2667 and 112 GB
RAM), and clients on F16s instances (16-core, 2.4 GHz Intel
Xeon E5-2673 and 32 GB RAM), all running Ubuntu 16.04. We
compile all our code with Rust’s nightly version 1.25. For XPIR,
we use the publicly available source code [ 9] and integrate it
into our testing framework using Rust wrappers. We report all
network costs measured at the application layer. We run each
experiment 10 times and report averages from those 10 trials.
Standard deviations are less than 10% of the reported means.
Parameters. We choose security parameters for FHE follow-
ing XPIR’s latest estimates [5], which are based on the analysis
and tools by Albrecht et al. [10]. We set the degree of cipher-
texts’ polynomials to 2048, and the size of the coefficients to
60 bits (N and q in Section 3). Specifically, SEAL uses a value
of q = 260− 218 + 1, whereas XPIR uses q = 261− i· 214 + 1,
for various values of i [6].
Each database element is 288 bytes. We choose this size since
the Pung communication system uses 288-byte messages (§7.4).
Unless otherwise stated, SealPIR uses a plaintext modulus
t=223. A larger t leads to lower network and computational
costs, but might cause noise to grow too much, preventing ci-
phertexts from decrypting successfully (we lower t in some
experiments to ensure that we can always decrypt the result).
For XPIR, we useα = 14, meaning that we packα elements
into a single XPIR plaintext, thereby reducing the number of
elements stored in the database by a factor ofα. For 288-byte el-
ements and our security parameters, settingα = 14 has roughly
the same effect as setting t = 223 in SealPIR (although our opti-
mization to EXPAND , which we discuss in Section 6, means that
SealPIR ultimately packs fewer elements together than XPIR).
7.1 Cost and performance of SealPIR
To evaluate SealPIR, we run a series of microbenchmarks to
measure: (i) the time to generate, expand, and answer a query;
(ii) the time to extract the response; and (iii) the time to prepro-
cess the database. We study several database sizes and repeat
the same experiment for XPIR using two different dimension
parameters d (§3.4). Figure 9 tabulates our results.
CPU costs. We find that the computational costs of query
generation are an order of magnitude lower under SealPIR
than under XPIR. This is because the client in SealPIR gener-
ates d ciphertexts as a query rather than d d√n ciphertexts as in
10

XPIR (d = 2) XPIR ( d = 3) SealPIR ( d = 2)
database size (n) 65,536 262,144 1,048,576 65,536 262,144 1,048,576 65,536 262,144 1,048,576
client CPU costs (ms)
QUERY 13.83 27.57 55.14 4.98 8.03 12.74 3.37 3.37 3.37
EXTRACT 0.34 0.29 0.30 2.47 2.49 2.57 1.37 1.39 1.69
server CPU costs (sec)
SETUP 0.15 0.57 2.27 0.15 0.58 2.32 0.23 1.04 4.26
EXPAND N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.05 0.11 0.23
ANSWER 0.21 0.63 2.12 0.27 0.78 2.52 0.13 0.5 2.01
network costs (KB)
query 4,384 8,768 17,536 1,632 2,560 4,064 64 64 64
answer 256 256 256 1,824 1,952 1,952 256 256 256
FIGURE 9—Microbenchmarks of CPU and network costs for XPIR and SealPIR under varying database sizes (n). Elements are of size 288 bytes.
XPIR (§3.4). When it comes to the server, SealPIR’s EXPAND
procedure introduces CPU overheads of 11% to 38% (over an-
swering a query vector directly). While this is high, it results in
significant network savings (which we discuss below). Further-
more, even with the overhead of EXPAND , the cost of answering
a query in SealPIR is comparable to XPIR.
We note that larger values of d lead to more computation
for the server for two reasons. First, structuring the database
as a d-dimensional hyperrectangle often requires padding the
database with dummy plaintexts to fit all dimensions. Second,
as we discuss in Section 3.4, the ciphertext expansion factor ef-
fectively increases the size of the elements by a factor ofF after
processing each dimension, necessitating more computation.
Network costs. For network costs, SealPIR enjoys a signifi-
cant reduction owing to its query encoding and EXPAND proce-
dure (§3.3). For larger databases, the query size reductions over
XPIR are 274× when d = 2, and 63× when d = 3.
7.2 SealPIR’s response time and throughput
While microbenchmarks are useful for understanding how
SealPIR compares to XPIR, another important axis is under-
standing how these costs affect response time and throughput.
7.2.1 Response times
To measure response time, we run experiments where we de-
ploy a PIR server in Azure’s US West data center, and place a
PIR client under four deployment scenarios. We then measure
the time to retrieve a 288-byte element using SealPIR, XPIR,
and scp (i.e., secure copy command line tool). We use scp to
represent a client downloading the entire database (naive PIR).
Deployment scenarios
intra-DC: the client and the server are both in the US West data
center. The bandwidth between the two VMs is approximately
3.4 Gbps (measured using the iperf measurement tool). This
scenario is mostly pedagogical since it makes little sense to
use PIR inside two VMs in the same data center controlled by
the same operator. It gives an idea of the performance that PIR
schemes could achieve if network bandwidth were plentiful.
inter-DC: the client is placed in the South India data cen-
ter. The bandwidth between the two VMs is approximately
800 Mbps. This scenario represents clients who deploy their
applications in a data center (or well-provisioned proxy) that
they trust, and access content from an untrusted data center.
home network: the client is placed in the South India data
center. However, we use thetc traffic control utility to configure
the Linux kernel packet scheduler in both VMs to maintain a
20 Mbps send rate. We choose this number as it is slightly over
the mean download speed in the U.S. (18.7 Mbps) according
to Akamai’s latest connectivity report [1, §4]. This scenario is
optimistic to XPIR since it ignores the asymmetry present in
home networks where the uplink bandwidth is typically much
lower (meanwhile in XPIR, the queries are large). Nevertheless
it gives a rough estimate of a common PIR use case in which a
client accesses an element from their home machine.
mobile network: the client is placed in the South India data
center. We usetc to configure VMs to maintain a 10 Mbps send
rate. We choose this number as it approximates the average data
speed achieved by users across all U.S. carriers according to
OpenSignal’s 2017 State of Mobile Networks report [ 2] and
Akamai [1, §8]. As with the home network, this scenario is
optimistic (for XPIR) as it ignores the discrepancy between
download and upload speeds. It represents the use of PIR from
a mobile or data-limited device, which is a common deployment
for applications such as private communication (§7.4).
Results. Figure 10 depicts the results. At very high speeds
(intra-DC), naive PIR (scp) is currently the best option, which is
not surprising given the computational costs introduced by PIR.
In this regime, SealPIR is competitive with both instances of
XPIR, although our implementation falls behind on the largest
database size. The primary issue is that, for a database with
n = 222 elements, our optimization of EXPAND makes the plain-
text modulus very small (t′ = 212, see Equation 1 in Section 6).
This causes SealPIR to use many more plaintexts than XPIR.
For even larger databases, since we must use a higher dimen-
sion anyway (§3.5), the difference in the number of plaintexts
between XPIR and SealPIR (for the same d) becomes less
prominent until n is large enough that the second operand in
Equation 1 approaches log(t) again.
When it comes to lower network speeds, XPIR and SealPIR
significantly outperform scp. As bandwidth decreases (home,
mobile), SealPIR’s lower network consumption and competitive
CPU costs yield up to a 42% reduction in response time.
11

 0
 3
 6
 9
 12
216 218 220 222
intra-DC (3.4 Gbps)
response time (sec)
# elements
 0
 4
 8
 12
 16
216 218 220 222
inter-DC (800 Mbps)
response time (sec)
# elements
 0
 6
 12
 18
 24
216 218 220 222
home (20 Mbps)
response time (sec)
# elements
 0
 16
 32
 48
 64
216 218 220 222
mobile (10 Mbps)
response time (sec)
# elements
SealPIR
XPIR (d=2)
XPIR (d=3)
scp
FIGURE 10— Mean response time experienced by a client under different deployments (see text for a description of network conditions) with
different PIR schemes. When the network bandwidth is plentiful (intra-DC), downloading the entire database (scp) achieves the lowest response
time. However, when the network bandwidth is limited (home, mobile), SealPIR achieves the lowest response time.
 0
 30
 60
 90
 120
 0  100  200  300  400  500  600
mean response time (sec)
throughput (queries/min)
SealPIR
XPIR (d=2)
XPIR (d=3)
scp
FIGURE 11— Comparing throughput vs. mean response time under
SealPIR and XPIR (with d = 2 and d = 3) when using a database with
220 elements where each element is 288 bytes long. We find that XPIR
with d = 2 saturates at 9 requests/second whereas SealPIR saturates at
7 requests/second (a 23% reduction in throughput). When XPIR uses
d = 3, SealPIR achieves about 50% higher throughput.
7.2.2 Throughput
We deploy the PIR server in Azure’s US West data center, but
access it with an increasing number of concurrent PIR clients
deployed across the South India and EU West data centers.
We then measure the number of requests serviced per minute
at the server, and the request completion times at the clients.
Figure 11 depicts the results of running from 4 to 256 clients
each requesting one 288-byte element from a database with 220
entries. In our experiments, we ensure that the bottleneck is the
server’s CPU or W AN network connection, and not the clients
or some link between specific data centers.
We find that SealPIR achieves a 50% higher throughput than
XPIR with d = 3, but a 23% lower throughput than XPIR with
d = 2. Most of the difference can be attributed to EXPAND , but
we believe that with further engineering we can close this gap
(since SealPIR is comparable to XPIR according to microbench-
marks). Compared to naive PIR via scp, SealPIR and XPIR
achieve over 20× higher throughput since the primary bottle-
neck in naive PIR is network bandwidth and not CPU (which is
the bottleneck for both SealPIR and XPIR).
7.3 Benefits of PBCs
To understand how PBCs can improve throughput and what type
of network overhead they add, we repeat the microbenchmark
experiments of Section 7.1, but this time we use mPIR (with
Cuckoo hashing, see Section 4.5). To put the benefits and costs
in context, we also evaluate the multi-query PIR scheme of
Pung [ 11]. Pung’s protocol, like PBCs, is probabilistic and
improves over existing batch codes in terms of costs. In this
experiment we use SealPIR with t = 220 as the underlying PIR
library and change only the multi-query scheme being used.
Figure 12 gives the results. We find that mPIR does a better
job than Pung’s scheme at amortizing CPU costs across all
batch sizes. This is a direct effect of the Cuckoo PBC producing
fewer total codewords (see Figure 5), since computational costs
are proportional to the number of elements after encoding (m).
At k = 256 and 288-byte elements, mPIR achieves a 2.6×
reduction in CPU cost for the server when answering queries
over Pung’s scheme. Over running k parallel instances of PIR,
the per-request CPU cost of mPIR is 40.5× lower.
The difference in network costs between Pung’s scheme and
mPIR is more pronounced. This owes to Pung’s scheme build-
ing on the subcube batch code of Ishai et al. [52] which creates
a large number of buckets (see Figure 5); to preserve privacy,
clients must issue a PIR query to each bucket. In terms of con-
crete savings, mPIR is 6× more network efficient (upload and
download) than Pung’s scheme. Considering that mPIR also has
a lower failure probability (around 2−40, compared to Pung’s
2−20), this suggests that mPIR is an attractive replacement to
Pung’s multi-query protocol, offering improvements on all axes.
Observe that atk = 256, mPIR’s download costs are the same
as running k-parallel instances of PIR. This is counterintuitive
since mPIR results in 50% more answers (the extra answers are
dummies that hide which buckets are of interest to the client;
see Section 5). However, each answer in mPIR contains fewer
ciphertexts because of the interaction between SealPIR and
mPIR. In particular, mPIR encodes the 220-entry databases into
1.5k = 384 buckets, and replicates elements 3 times. Buckets
therefore have on average 213 elements. Recall from Section 3
that if d> 1, the number of ciphertexts in an answer depends on
the expansion factor F = 2 log(q)/ log(t′). Furthermore, Equa-
tion 1 (Section 6) shows that t′ is larger for smaller databases.
Indeed, for the original 220-entry database, t′ = 210 (F = 12),
whereas t′ = 215 for the average bucket (F = 8). Consequently,
for our choice of parameters, the total download communication
ends up being the same: 256· 12 = 384· 8 ciphertexts.5
5Similar benefits apply to Pung’s scheme when used with SealPIR: observe in
Figure 12 that as k goes from 16 to 64, the amortized answer size goes down.
12

single-query Pung’s multi-retrieval mPIR (Cuckoo hashing)
batch size (k) 1 16 64 256 16 64 256
client CPU costs (ms)
MultiQuery 3.07 29.03 28.50 28.58 6.45 5.26 4.92
MultiExtract 2.51 20.00 16.27 16.36 3.26 3.25 2.70
server CPU costs (sec)
MultiSetup 6.1 2.02 0.64 0.30 1.50 0.38 0.12
MultiAnswer 3.24 1.37 0.49 0.21 0.69 0.23 0.08
network costs (KB)
query 64 577 577 577 96 96 96
answer 384 2,885 2,308 2,308 480 480 384
FIGURE 12— Per-request (amortized) CPU and network costs of two multi-query PIR schemes on a database consisting of 220 elements, with
varying batch sizes. The schemes are Pung’s multi-retrieval protocol and mPIR, which is based on PBCs (Cuckoo variant). The second column
gives the cost of retrieving a single element (no amortization). The underlying PIR library is SealPIR with t = 220 and elements are 288 bytes.
Note that this parity in download cost is not true in general;
it is a result of the particular parameters used in this case. In
fact, because of Equation 1 (§6), we can even achieve lower
amortized download costs. Without EXPAND ’s optimization,
this would not be the case: in some sense, the optimization
introduces communication overhead to fetching elements from
databases with many entries and mPIR amortizes that overhead.
As an aside, Equation 1 does not affect upload costs; these costs
increase by 50% since the client is sending 50% more queries.
7.4 Case study: Pung with SealPIR and mPIR
To evaluate the end-to-end benefits that SealPIR and mPIR
provide to actual applications, we modify the available imple-
mentation of Pung [3]. Pung is a messaging service that allows
users to exchange messages in rounds without leaking any meta-
data (who they are talking to, how often, or when). We choose
Pung because it uses XPIR to achieve its privacy guarantees,
and because it also relies on multi-query PIR to allow clients
to receive multiple messages simultaneously. Consequently, we
can switch Pung’s PIR engine from XPIR to SealPIR, and we
can replace Pung’s custom multi-query PIR scheme with mPIR.
Experiment. We have clients send one message and retrievek
messages (this models clients engaging in group conversations).
We run the system in a close-loop and advance rounds as soon as
all clients have sent and retrieved the messages. To experiment
with many clients we employ the same simulation technique
used in Pung: we have 32 real clients accessing the server,
and simulate additional clients by pre-populating the server’s
database with random messages.
Figure 13 shows the throughput in messages per minute
that Pung achieves with mPIR and SealPIR (“Pung+MS”).
Pung+MS yields better performance than the existing Pung
code base for all batch sizes greater than 1. There are three rea-
sons for this. First, Pung’s multi-retrieval produces50% more
codewords than mPIR, and therefore has to do more processing.
Second, Pung’s multi-retrieval produces 7× more buckets than
mPIR. This forces Pung to run XPIR on many small databases
that contain an average of 500 to 8,000 elements (depending on
the batch size), which exacerbates XPIR’s fixed costs.
Last, even though SealPIR incurs additional CPU costs than
0
10 K
20 K
30 K
40 K
1 16 64 256
throughput (messages/min)message batch size (k)
Pung
Pung+S
Pung+M
Pung+MS
FIGURE 13— Throughput of Pung on one server with 256K users,
each retrieving k 288 byte messages per round. The label “Pung” in-
dicates the implementation as given in [3], with updated parameters
(§7). “Pung+S” is a version of Pung that uses SealPIR with t = 220;
“Pung+M” is a version of Pung that uses mPIR; and “Pung+MS” is a
version of Pung that uses both mPIR and SealPIR.
0
 500
 1000
 1500
1 16 64 256
total network cost (MB)
message batch size (k)
Pung
Pung+S
Pung+M
Pung+MS
FIGURE 14— Per-user total network cost (upload and download) of
a Pung deployment with 256K users. Each user retrieves k 288-byte
messages. See Figure 13 for an explanation of the legend.
XPIR (d = 2) on large databases as we show in Section 7.1 (this
is also why Pung has higher throughput than Pung-MS when
the batch size is 1), SealPIR is slightly faster when the database
is small (see the column with 65,536 elements in Figure 9).
Ultimately, we find that if clients retrieve k = 64 messages, the
throughput of Pung+MS is 3.1× higher than that of Pung.
When it comes to network costs, the benefits of SealPIR and
mPIR are considerable. Figure 14 depicts the total network cost
incurred by a single client for one round of the Pung protocol.
We find that the compressed queries and fewer buckets result in
savings of over36×. In particular, the per-client communication
costs are cut down to 7.7 MB per round for k = 16 (versus
279 MB in the original Pung implementation).
13

8 Discussion
SealPIR significantly reduces the network cost of XPIR, while
introducing modest computational overheads. However, there
are several opportunities to reduce CPU costs further. Observe
that in EXPAND and Stern’s protocol, when the database dimen-
sion (d) is greater than 1 (see Section 3.4) the computation
consists of several matrix-vector products. We can therefore
implement the optimization described by Beimel et al. [ 16]
where multiple queries (from potentially different users) are
aggregated to form a matrix; the server can then use a subcubic
matrix multiplication algorithm to compute the result (§2.2).
Another area of potential improvement is in the design of
PBCs. As we show in our evaluation, PBCs built from reverse
hashing reduce costs over existing methods, but so far we have
only studied allocation strategies that are typically used for on-
line load balancing (i.e., balls arrive one at a time). We could
also consider strategies that optimize for the offline setting in
which all balls are available at the same time (which is the case
in PBCs). In this setting, the allocation process can be phrased
in terms of orienting the edges of undirected graphs in order
to obtain directed graphs with minimum in-degree [25]. Opti-
mal solutions for this problem can be computed in polynomial
time [30], and linear time approximations also exist [25, 35, 41].
Changes made on November 16, 2020
We have fixed a typo in Figure 4. In the prior version, the array
with the plaintext coefficients after Expand ( j = 0) had the
coefficient 2 in the second entry (representing 2x) instead of the
third entry (representing 2x2). The latter is the correct one.
Acknowledgments
We thank Esha Ghosh, Trinabh Gupta, Jay Lorch, Michael
Walfish, and Sergey Yekhanin for their helpful feedback. We
thank Peter Rindal for sharing his estimates of Cuckoo hashing’s
failure probability. Sebastian Angel was supported by NSF grant
CNS-1514422 and AFOSR grant FA9550-15-1-0302.
References
[1] Akamai state of the internet connectivity report.
https://www.akamai.com/fr/fr/multimedia/
documents/state-of-the-internet/q1-2017-state-
of-the-internet-connectivity-report.pdf , May 2017.
[2] Opensignal state of mobile networks: Usa.
https://opensignal.com/reports-
data/national/data-2017-08-usa/report.pdf , Aug.
2017.
[3] Pung: Unobservable communication over fully untrusted
infrastructure. https://github.com/pung-project/pung,
Sept. 2017.
[4] Simple encrypted arithmetic library — SEAL.
https://sealcrypto.org, 2017.
[5] XPIR: NFLLWE security estimator.
https://github.com/XPIR-team/XPIR/blob/master/
crypto/NFLLWESecurityEstimator/
NFLLWESecurityEstimator-README, June 2017.
[6] XPIR NFLParams. https://github.com/XPIR-
team/XPIR/blob/master/crypto/NFLParams.cpp, June
2017.
[7] Internet providers with data caps.
https://broadbandnow.com/internet-providers-
with-data-caps, Jan. 2018.
[8] C. Aguilar-Melchor, J. Barrier, L. Fousse, and M.-O. Killijian.
XPIR: Private information retrieval for everyone. In Proceedings
of the Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium (PETS), July
2016.
[9] C. Aguilar-Melchor, J. Barrier, L. Fousse, and M.-O. Killijian.
XPIR: Private information retrieval for everyone.
https://github.com/xpir-team/xpir/, 2016.
[10] M. R. Albrecht, R. Player, and S. Scott. On the concrete
hardness of learning with errors. Journal of Mathematical
Cryptology, 9(3), Oct. 2015.
[11] S. Angel and S. Setty. Unobservable communication over fully
untrusted infrastructure. In Proceedings of the USENIX
Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation
(OSDI), Nov. 2016.
[12] Y . Arbitman, M. Naor, and G. Segev. Backyard cuckoo hashing:
Constant worst-case operations with a succinct representation.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Foundations of
Computer Science (FOCS), Oct. 2010.
[13] Y . Azar, A. Z. Broder, A. R. Karlin, and E. Upfal. Balanced
allocations. In Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Theory of
Computing (STOC), May 1994.
[14] B. Barak, O. Goldreich, R. Impagliazzo, S. Rudich, A. Sahai,
S. P. Vadhan, and K. Yang. On the (im)possibility of obfuscating
programs. Journal of the ACM, 59(2), 2012.
[15] A. Beimel, Y . Ishai, E. Kushilevitz, and J.-F. Raymond. Breaking
the O(n1/(2k−1)) barrier for information-theoretic private
information retrieval. In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on
Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS), Nov. 2002.
[16] A. Beimel, Y . Ishai, and T. Malkin. Reducing the servers
computation in private information retrieval: PIR with
preprocessing. In Proceedings of the International Cryptology
Conference (CRYPTO), Aug. 2000.
[17] B. H. Bloom. Space/time trade-offs in hash coding with
allowable errors. Communications of the ACM, 13(7), July 1970.
[18] N. Borisov, G. Danezis, and I. Goldberg. DP5: A private
presence service. In Proceedings of the Privacy Enhancing
Technologies Symposium (PETS), June 2015.
[19] E. Boyle, Y . Ishai, R. Pass, and M. Wootters. Can we access a
database both locally and privately? In Proceedings of the
Theory of Cryptography Conference (TCC), Nov. 2017.
[20] Z. Brakerski, C. Gentry, and V . Vaikuntanathan. (Leveled) fully
homomorphic encryption without bootstrapping. In Proceedings
of the Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science (ITCS)
Conference, Jan. 2012.
[21] Z. Brakerski and V . Vaikuntanathan. Efficient fully
homomorphic encryption from (standard) LWE. In Proceedings
of the IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science
(FOCS), Oct. 2011.
[22] Z. Brakerski and V . Vaikuntanathan. Fully homomorphic
encryption from Ring-LWE and security for key dependent
messages. In Proceedings of the International Cryptology
Conference (CRYPTO), Aug. 2011.
[23] A. D. Breslow, D. P. Zhang, J. L. Greathouse, N. Jayasena, and
D. M. Tullsen. Horton tables: Fast hash tables for in-memory
data-intensive computing. In Proceedings of the USENIX
Annual Technical Conference (ATC), June 2016.
[24] C. Cachin, S. Micali, and M. Stadler. Computationally private
information retrieval with polylogarithmic communication. In
Proceedings of the International Conference on the Theory and
14

Applications of Cryptographic Techniques (EUROCRYPT), May
1999.
[25] J. A. Cain, P. Sanders, and N. Wormald. The random graph
threshold for k-orientability and a fast algorithm for optimal
multiple-choice allocation. In Proceedings of the ACM-SIAM
Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA), Jan. 2007.
[26] R. Canetti, J. Holmgren, and S. Richelson. Towards doubly
efficient private information retrieval. In Proceedings of the
Theory of Cryptography Conference (TCC), Nov. 2017.
[27] Y .-C. Chang. Single database private information retrieval with
logarithmic communication. In Proceedings of the Australasian
Conference on Information Security and Privacy, July 2004.
[28] H. Chen, K. Han, Z. Huang, A. Jalali, and K. Laine. Simple
encrypted arithmetic library v2.3.0.
https://https://www.microsoft.com/en-
us/research/publication/simple-encrypted-
arithmetic-library-v2-3-0/ , Dec. 2017.
[29] H. Chen, K. Laine, and P. Rindal. Fast private set intersection
from homomorphic encryption. In Proceedings of the ACM
Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS),
Oct. 2017.
[30] L. T. Chen and D. Rotem. Optimal reponse time retrieval of
replicated data. In Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on
Principles of Database Systems (PODS), May 1994.
[31] R. Cheng, W. Scott, B. Parno, I. Zhang, A. Krishnamurthy, and
T. Anderson. Talek: a private publish-subscribe protocol.
Technical Report UW-CSE-16-11-01, University of Washington
Computer Science and Engineering, Nov. 2016.
[32] B. Chor, N. Gilboa, and M. Naor. Private information retrieval
by keywords. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 1998/003, Feb.
1998. https://eprint.iacr.org/1998/003.
[33] B. Chor, O. Goldreich, E. Kushilevitz, and M. Sudan. Private
information retrieval. In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on
Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS), Oct. 1995.
[34] D. Coppersmith and S. Winograd. Matrix multiplication via
arithmetic progressions. In Proceedings of the ACM Symposium
on Theory of Computing (STOC), May 1987.
[35] A. Czumaj and V . Stemann. Randomized allocation processes.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Foundations of
Computer Science (FOCS), Oct. 1997.
[36] D. Demmler, A. Herzberg, and T. Schneider. RAID-PIR:
Practical multi-server PIR. In Proceedings of the ACM Cloud
Computing Security Workshop (CCSW), Nov. 2014.
[37] C. Devet, I. Goldberg, and N. Heninger. Optimally robust
private information retrieval. In Proceedings of the USENIX
Security Symposium, Aug. 2012.
[38] M. Dietzfelbinger and F. Meyer auf der Heide. A new universal
class of hash functions and dynamic hashing in real time. In
Proceedings of the International Colloquium on Automata,
Languages and Programming (ICALP), July 1990.
[39] C. Dong and L. Chen. A fast single server private information
retrieval protocol with low communication cost. In Proceedings
of the European Symposium on Research in Computer Security
(ESORICS), Sept. 2014.
[40] J. Fan and F. Vercauteren. Somewhat practical fully
homomorphic encryption. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2012/144, Mar. 2012.
https://eprint.iacr.org/2012/144.pdf.
[41] D. Fernholz and V . Ramachandran. The k-orientability
thresholds for Gn,p. In Proceedings of the ACM-SIAM
Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA), Jan. 2007.
[42] A. Frieze, P. Melsted, and M. Mitzenmacher. An analysis of
random-walk cuckoo hashing. SIAM Journal on Computing,
40(2), Mar. 2011.
[43] S. Garg, E. Miles, P. Mukherjee, A. Sahai, A. Srinivasan, and
M. Zhandry. Secure obfuscation in a weak multilinear map
model. In Proceedings of the Theory of Cryptography
Conference (TCC), Oct. 2016.
[44] C. Gentry, S. Halevi, and N. P. Smart. Fully homomorphic
encryption with polylog overhead. In Proceedings of the
International Conference on the Theory and Applications of
Cryptographic Techniques (EUROCRYPT), Apr. 2012.
[45] C. Gentry and Z. Ramzan. Single-database private information
retrieval with constant communication rate. In Proceedings of
the International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and
Programming (ICALP), July 2005.
[46] I. Goldberg. Improving the robustness of private information
retrieval. In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy (S&P), May 2007.
[47] M. Green, W. Ladd, and I. Miers. A protocol for privately
reporting ad impressions at scale. In Proceedings of the ACM
Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS),
Oct. 2016.
[48] J. Groth, A. Kiayias, and H. Lipmaa. Multi-query
computationally-private information retrieval with constant
communication rate. In Proceedings of the International
Conference on Practice and Theory in Public Key Cryptography
(PKC), May 2010.
[49] T. Gupta, N. Crooks, W. Mulhern, S. Setty, L. Alvisi, and
M. Walfish. Scalable and private media consumption with
Popcorn. In Proceedings of the USENIX Symposium on
Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI), Mar.
2016.
[50] R. Henry. Polynomial batch codes for efficient IT-PIR. In
Proceedings of the Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium
(PETS), July 2016.
[51] R. Henry, Y . Huang, and I. Goldberg. One (block) size fits all:
PIR and SPIR with variable-length records via multi-block
queries. In Proceedings of the Network and Distributed System
Security Symposium (NDSS), Feb. 2013.
[52] Y . Ishai, E. Kushilevitz, R. Ostrovsky, and A. Sahai. Batch codes
and their applications. In Proceedings of the ACM Symposium
on Theory of Computing (STOC), June 2004.
[53] D. Karger, E. Lehman, T. Leighton, R. Panigrahy, M. Levine,
and D. Lewin. Consistent hashing and random trees: distributed
caching protocols for relieving hot spots on the world wide web.
In Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing
(STOC), May 1997.
[54] P. Key, L. Massoulié, and D. Towsley. Path selection and
multipath congestion control. In Proceedings of the IEEE
International Conference on Computer Communications
(INFOCOM), May 2007.
[55] M. Khosla. Balls into bins made faster. In Proceedings of the
European Symposium on Algorithms (ESA), Sept. 2013.
[56] A. Kiayias, N. Leonardos, H. Lipmaa, K. Pavlyk, and Q. Tang.
Optimal rate private information retrieval from homomorphic
encryption. In Proceedings of the Privacy Enhancing
Technologies Symposium (PETS), July 2015.
[57] E. Kushilevitz and R. Ostrovsky. Replication is not needed:
Single database, computationally-private information retrieval.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Foundations of
Computer Science (FOCS), Oct. 1997.
[58] A. Kwon, D. Lazar, S. Devadas, and B. Ford. Riffle: An efficient
communication system with strong anonymity. In Proceedings
15

of the Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium (PETS), July
2016.
[59] H. Lipmaa. First CPIR protocol with data-dependent
computation. In Proceedings of the International Conference on
Information, Security and Cryptology (ICISC), Dec. 2009.
[60] H. Lipmaa and K. Pavlyk. A simpler rate-optimal CPIR protocol.
In Proceedings of the International Financial Cryptography
Conference, Apr. 2017.
[61] H. Lipmaa and V . Skachek. Linear batch codes. InProceedings
of the International Castle Meeting on Coding Theory and
Applications, Sept. 2014.
[62] W. Lueks and I. Goldberg. Sublinear scaling for multi-client
private information retrieval. In Proceedings of the International
Financial Cryptography and Data Security Conference, Jan.
2015.
[63] P. Mittal, F. Olumofin, C. Troncoso, N. Borisov, and I. Goldberg.
PIR-Tor: Scalable anonymous communication using private
information retrieval. In Proceedings of the USENIX Security
Symposium, Aug. 2011.
[64] M. Mitzenmacher. The power of two choices in randomized load
balancing. IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed
Systems, 12(10), Oct. 2001.
[65] K. Ousterhout, P. Wendell, M. Zaharia, and I. Stoica. Sparrow:
Distributed, low latency scheduling. In Proceedings of the ACM
Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP), Nov. 2013.
[66] R. Pagh and F. F. Rodler. Cuckoo hashing. In Proceedings of the
European Symposium on Algorithms (ESA), Aug. 2001.
[67] M. B. Paterson, D. R. Stinson, and R. Wei. Combinatorial batch
codes. Advances in Mathematics of Communications (AMC),
3(1), Feb. 2009.
[68] B. Pinkas, T. Schneider, and M. Zohner. Scalable private set
intersection based on OT extension. ACM Transactions on
Privacy and Security, 21(2), Jan. 2018.
[69] A. S. Rawat, Z. Song, A. G. Dimakis, and A. Gál. Batch codes
through dense graphs without short cycles. IEEE Transactions
on Information Theory, 62(4), Apr. 2016.
[70] N. Silberstein. Fractional repetition and erasure batch codes. In
Proceedings of the International Castle Meeting on Coding
Theory and Applications, Sept. 2014.
[71] N. Silberstein and T. Etzion. Optimal fractional repetittion codes
and fractional repetition batch codes. In Proceedings of the
IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT),
June 2015.
[72] J. P. Stern. A new and efficient all-or-nothing disclosure of
secrets protocol. In International Conference on the Theory and
Application of Cryptology and Information Security
(ASIACRYPT), Oct. 1998.
[73] V . Strassen. Gaussian elimination is not optimal. Numerische
Mathematik, 13(4), Aug. 1969.
[74] K. Talwar and U. Wieder. Balanced allocations: the weighted
case. In Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Theory of
Computing (STOC), June 2007.
[75] B. Vöcking. How asymmetry helps load balancing. Journal of
the ACM, 50(4), 2003.
[76] Z. Wang, H. M. Kiah, and Y . Cassuto. Optimal binary switch
codes with small query size. In Proceedings of the IEEE
International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT), June
2015.
[77] Z. Wang, O. Shaked, Y . Cassuto, and J. Bruck. Codes for
network switches. In Proceedings of the IEEE International
Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT), July 2013.
[78] X. Yi, M. G. Kaosar, R. Paulet, and E. Bertino. Single-database
private information retrieval from fully homomorphic encryption.
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 25(5),
May 2013.
Appendix
A Query expansion
A.1 Substitution operator
We now give details on how the substitution operator is implemented.
Let Φi be the i-th cyclotomic polynomial.6 As we discuss in Section 3.1,
we pick Φi = xN + 1, where N is a power of two (hence i = 2N).
Recall from that same section that FV plaintexts are polynomials in
the ring Rt = Zt[x]/Φi(x), and ciphertexts are two polynomials, each
in the ring Rq = Zq[x]/Φi(x). The secret key sk is a randomly sampled
polynomial in R2.
Let p(x) be the plaintext encrypted by ciphertext c = (c0, c1). Our
goal is to substitute in p(x) every instance of x with xk for some integer
k, by operating directly on c. Gentry et al. [ 44, §4.2] show that if
k∈ Z∗
i (i.e., k is odd so that it is coprime with i), performing the
substitution directly on the ciphertext polynomials ( c0, c1) and the
secret key achieves this goal.
Specifically, let c(k) be the result of replacing every instance of x in
the ciphertext polynomials c0 and c1 with xk. Similarly, let sk(k) be the
result of replacing every instance of x in the secret key sk with xk. The
result of decrypting c(k) with sk(k) is therefore p(xk)—which is exactly
what we want.
One issue with the above is that EXPAND (Figure 3) uses the output
ciphertext after substitution, c(k), and adds it to the input ciphertext
c in each iteration of the inner loop (see Lines 10 and 11). This oper-
ation is not well defined since both ciphertexts are encrypted under
different keys (substitution essentially changes the key under which
the ciphertext is encrypted). To address this, we perform an operation
called key switching [20], which allows us to transform an encryption
of c(k) under some public key associated with sk(k), to an encryption of
c(k) under some public key associated with the original key sk (which
is the key under which c is also defined).
Note that the server needs some auxiliary information in order to
perform key switching. In particular, the server needs a key-switching
matrix showing how to go from sk(k) to sk (see [44, Appendix D] for
details), which the client must generate. Since in EXPAND substitution
is called for different values of k (notice that in Line 10 and 11 in
Figure 3 the value of k depends on j), the client must provide a key-
switching matrix for each of them. However, this only needs to be done
once and it depends only on the size of the database.
The above allows the server to compute EXPAND : the server first
does the substitution followed by the appropriate key switch, and finally
performs the addition in the inner loop.
A.2 Correctness of query expansion
Below we prove that EXPAND (Figure 3) correctly expands one ci-
phertext into a vector of n ciphertexts with the desired contents. The
following theorem makes this formal.
Theorem 1. Let N be a power of 2, N≥ n, and query = Enc(xi) be
the client’s encoding of index i. The n output ciphertexts o0,... , on−1
of EXPAND (query) satisfy, for all 0≤ k≤ n− 1:
ok =
(
Enc(1) if i = k
Enc(0) otherwise
6The i-th cyclotomic polynomial is the unique irreducible polynomial with
integer coefficients that is a factor of xi− 1 but not of xj− 1 for any j < i.
16

Proof. It suffices to prove the case for n = 2ℓ. For j ={0, 1,... ,ℓ−
1}, we claim that after the jth iteration of the outer loop, we have
ciphertexts = [c′
0,... , c′
2j+1−1] such that
ciphertexts[k] =
(
Enc(2j+1xi−k) if i≡ k (mod 2 j+1)
Enc(0) otherwise
We prove the claim by induction on j. The base case j = 0 is explained
in the main text of Section 3.3. Suppose the claim is true for some
j≥ 0. Then in the next iteration, we compute an array ciphertexts′.
For the first half of the array, i.e., 0 ≤ k < 2j+1, we have
ciphertexts′[k] = ciphertexts[k] + Sub(ciphertexts[k], N/2j+1 + 1).
If i ̸= k (mod 2j+1), then ciphertexts′[k] is an encryption of 0;
otherwise, there is an integer r such that i− k = 2j+1· r, and
Sub(ciphertexts[k], N/2j+1 + 1) = Enc(2j+1x(N/2j+1+1)(2j+1r)) =
Enc(2j+1(−1)rxi−k). Hence, if r is odd, then ciphertexts′[k] is an en-
cryption of 0; otherwise, ciphertexts′[k] is an encryption of 2j+2xi−k.
So the claim follows because r is even if and only if i≡ k (mod 2j+2).
We now prove the claim for the second half of the arrayciphertexts′.
The only interesting case is i≡ k− 2j+1 (mod 2j+1). In this case, we
see that ciphertexts′[k] is again Enc(2j+1(−1)(i−k)/2j+1
xi−k). So the
same argument applies.
Finally, with the above claim we show that after the outer loop in
EXPAND , we have an array of 2ℓ ciphertexts such that:
ciphertexts[k] =
(
Enc(2ℓxi−k) if i≡ k (mod 2 ℓ)
Enc(0) otherwise
However, note that i< n = 2ℓ, so i≡ k (mod 2ℓ) implies i = k.
Hence ciphertexts[k] is either an encryption of 0 or an encryption of
2ℓ. To obtain an encryption of 0 or 1, we multiply ciphertexts[k] by the
inverse of 2ℓ modulo t in the last step (Figure 3, Line 14).
A.3 Noise growth of query expansion
One advantage of our query expansion technique over the straw man
FHE solution given in Section 3.1 (besides the one mentioned in that
section) is that our approach has much smaller noise growth. We bound
the noise growth of EXPAND (Figure 3) in the theorem below. Before
stating the theorem, we give some background on noise. See the SEAL
manual [28] for a more detailed explanation. We have that the noise
of the addition of two ciphertexts is the sum of their individual noises.
Plain multiplication by a monomial xj (for some j) with coefficient 1
does not change the noise, and plain multiplication by a constant α
multiplies the noise byα. Substitution adds a constant additive term
Bsub to the noise, which depends on the FV parameters.
Theorem 2. Let vout be the output noise of EXPAND , and vin be the
input noise. Let t denote the plaintext modulus in EXPAND , and let
k =⌈log(n)⌉. We have that
vout≤ t· (2k(vin + 2Bsub))
Proof. Let vi be the noise after the ith iteration in EXPAND (setting
v0 = vin). Then vi = 2(vi−1 + Bsub). Carrying out the sum, we get
vk = 2kv0 + 2(2k− 1)Bsub < 2k(v0 + 2Bsub)
Since inverse≤ t, the final plain multiplication results in vout≤ tvk.
This completes the proof.
PBC scheme Encode GenSchedule Decode
k-way replication 22.5 ms 5.8 µs 0.1 µs
sharding 52.1 ms 112.8 µs 0.3 µs
2-choice hashing 103.6 ms 212.9 µs 0.2 µs
Pung Hybrid 101.8 ms 42.3 µs 1.2 µs
Cuckoo hashing 154.1 ms 319.2 µs 0.15 µs
FIGURE 15—Cost of operations for five PBCs implemented as part of
mPIR. The collection size (n) is 524,288 and the batch size (k) is 64.
Each element in the collection is 288 bytes. k-way replication simply
replicates the n balls into k-bins during the producer’s allocation, and
picks a different bin for the k balls during the consumer’s simulation.
Sharding maps balls to a single bin during the producer’s allocation,
and the consumer uses a hash function during simulation (this variant
has a high failure rate which we improve by replicating buckets).
B Cost of PBC variants
We have implemented five PBCs with different allocation algorithms
using reverse hashing. Our goal is to show that all of them admit effi-
cient encoding and decoding procedures. For the purpose of building a
multi-query PIR scheme, we wish to select a PBC variant that reduces
the number of codewords (m) and buckets (b). Our hypothesis is that
PBCs that produce low values of m and b result in more expensive
encoding and schedule generation procedures.
To test this hypothesis we create a collection with 131K elements,
each of which is 1 KB, and encode the collection with the different
PBCs for a batch size of k = 64. We then measure the time to encode,
decode, and generate a schedule. We also experiment with other ele-
ment and collections sizes and find that while the absolute costs vary,
they are still small (considering Encode is a one-time operation), and
the relative costs are consistent.
Figure 15 lists the CPU time taken by various operations for all
the variants we have implemented. Our hypothesis holds to an extent:
all the variants that are based on replication (for the producer) and
hashing (for the consumer) follow our prediction. The source of costs
for schedule generation corresponds to the time taken to find a solution
to a k balls, b bins, and w choices problem. The different allocation
strategies approximate the optimal solution, and among them, Cuckoo
hashing yields the best approximation by recursively relocating ele-
ments when there are collisions (§4.5). Encoding performance, on the
other hand, is based on the number and the cost of the memory copies,
since encoding is a simple repetition code.
Our hypothesis does not hold for the PBC variant that corresponds
to a port of Pung’s Hybrid multi-retrieval protocol. The reason is that
this variant is partially based on the subcube batch code of Ishai et
al. [52], for which the final position of each input element is statically
determined and does not require computing a hash function (unlike
our hashing variants). This allows computing a schedule by consulting
a lookup table.
Finally, as mentioned above, our goal with this experiment was to
confirm that all PBCs have reasonably efficient encoding, decoding,
and schedule generation procedures. As such, our evaluation (§7)
focuses only on the Cuckoo variant since it yields the most efficient
parameters, and the second lowest failure probability (k-way replication
never fails, but has a very high value of m).
17