Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale
HILAL ASI,Apple Inc., USA
FABIAN BOEMER,Apple Inc., USA
NICHOLAS GENISE,Apple Inc., USA
MUHAMMAD HARIS MUGHEES∗,Apple Inc., USA
TABITHA OGILVIE†,Royal Holloway, University of London, United Kingdom
REHAN RISHI,Apple Inc., USA
GUY N. ROTHBLUM,Apple Inc., USA
KUNAL TALWAR,Apple Inc., USA
KARL TARBE,Apple Inc., USA
AKSHAY WADIA,Apple Inc., USA
RUIYU ZHU,Apple Inc., USA
MARCO ZULIANI,Apple Inc., USA
We present Wally, a batched private nearest-neighbor search protocol that uses differential privacy to break
the linear computation barrier of fully-oblivious schemes. In prior systems like Tiptoe, the server must process
the entire database per query to hide the access pattern, resulting in low throughput (909 QPS) and high
communication (17.4 MB) on a 3.2-million-entry database. Sublinear alternatives like Pacmann avoid full scans
but require 614 MB of client storage and an offline phase where clients stream the entire database.
Wally’s key insight is that fully-oblivious schemes are prohibitively expensive at scale, but the same scale
that makes them expensive also provides an opportunity. Large-scale systems naturally have many concurrent
clients. Wally batches queries from these non-coordinating clients and has each client independently add a few
fake queries to hide which clusters it accesses. The fake query counts follow a negative binomial distribution,
which is both non-negative (valid as a query count) and infinitely divisible (allowing each client to sample
independently without coordination). Each client sends its queries at random times through an existing
anonymization service, avoiding the need for a centralized shuffler and eliminating any single point of failure.
The server sees only an anonymized, noisy stream of cluster accesses that is provably (𝜖,𝛿) -differentially
private, enabling it to compute over only the relevant clusters rather than the entire database. To further
reduce communication, the client encrypts its query embedding under somewhat homomorphic encryption
(SHE) so that the server returns only encrypted similarity scores rather than full cluster contents. On a
3.2-million-entry database with batches of 500,000 queries, Wally achieves7 -29× higher throughput and
6.7-31× lower communication than Tiptoe, and15,000× lower client storage than Pacmann, while providing
strong(𝜖=0.1,𝛿=2 −26)-differential privacy and comparable or better accuracy.
For metadata retrieval, the client uses keyword private information retrieval (PIR) to privately fetch data
associated with the nearest result. We propose optimizations to both SHE and keyword PIR that yield2 -3×
improvements in PIR and20 -25% in BFV operations, and release a production-quality open-source BFV
homomorphic encryption library in Swift.
CCS Concepts:•Security and privacy → Management and querying of encrypted data;Privacy-
preserving protocols;Privacy protections.
∗Corresponding author.
†This work was done while interning at Apple.
Authors’ Contact Information: Hilal Asi, Apple Inc., USA, hasi@apple.com; Fabian Boemer, Apple Inc., USA, fboemer@
apple.com; Nicholas Genise, Apple Inc., USA, ngenise@apple.com; Muhammad Haris Mughees, Apple Inc., USA, mughees@
apple.com; Tabitha Ogilvie, Royal Holloway, University of London, United Kingdom, tabitha.l.ogilvie@gmail.com; Rehan
Rishi, Apple Inc., USA, rrishi@apple.com; Guy N. Rothblum, Apple Inc., USA, gn_rothblum@apple.com; Kunal Talwar,
Apple Inc., USA, ktalwar@apple.com; Karl Tarbe, Apple Inc., USA, ktarbe@apple.com; Akshay Wadia, Apple Inc., USA,
awadia@apple.com; Ruiyu Zhu, Apple Inc., USA, rzhu@apple.com; Marco Zuliani, Apple Inc., USA, mzuliani@apple.com.
arXiv:2406.06761v7  [cs.CR]  10 Jul 2026

2 Asi et al.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Private information retrieval, homomorphic encryption, differential
privacy, nearest neighbor search
1 Introduction
Nearest neighbor search is a key building block in many applications. Search engines use it to find
relevant documents [22, 85]. Recommendation systems use it to suggest products [2]. Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG) systems use it to retrieve relevant context that augments language
models’ responses to user prompts [ 74, 75]. In this scenario, a server maintains a database of
semantically significant vectors, while a client sends a query vector. The server then identifies
the vectors in its database that are most similar to the client’s query. However, this setup raises
privacy concerns, as the server learns the client’s query, potentially exposing sensitive personal
information. For example, if the client query is an embedding extracted from a personal photo, the
server can potentially invert this embedding and infer sensitive information about the client [58].
The potential privacy issues surrounding nearest-neighbor search have motivated numerous
private nearest-neighbor (PNN) protocols. Legacy PNN protocols provide privacy by periodically
injecting fake queries that resemble real queries [60, 62, 67, 81, 82] or by obfuscating clients’ original
queries using fake terms [10, 63, 70, 83]. Although these approaches are efficient, they lack standard
privacy guarantees and often rely on assumptions about limited adversarial capabilities. For example,
many of these works assume that adversaries have limited knowledge, such as being unaware
of the obfuscation algorithm, lacking background data, or employing fixed inference strategies.
Consequently, when removing these assumptions or considering a more capable adversary, their
privacy guarantee breaks [3, 15, 39, 64].
Although recent PNN protocols offer strong privacy guarantees, they rely on restrictive assump-
tions or incur prohibitive costs. For example, PRECO [77] and SANNS [25] achieve efficiency by
assuming the existence of two non-colluding servers. This requires two independent organizations
to jointly run expensive computation, and if the servers collude, all privacy guarantees are lost
with no graceful degradation. In practice, finding and maintaining two independent, trusted, and
computationally capable parties is a significant deployment barrier.
In contrast, Tiptoe [46], a state-of-the-art single-server protocol which uses somewhat homomor-
phic encryption (SHE), requires approximately 17 MB of communication per query and achieves
only 909 QPS on 10,000 cores for a database with 3.2 million entries. This overhead arises because
the server needs to scan the entire dataset, and the client must send cryptographic material for
each entry. More recent sublinear computation approaches, such as Pacmann [87], eliminate full
database scans at query time but require clients to stream the entire database as a pre-computation,
resulting in 61 MB of amortized communication per query for the same database. Such overheads
are prohibitive in production deployments, which are critical for recent AI applications where
systems must serve thousands of concurrent clients over a vector index spanning millions of vectors.
As a result, current PNN protocols face an undesirable trade-off between privacy and performance.
On one hand, efficient approaches lack a standard privacy guarantee, rendering them vulnerable.
On the other hand, schemes that do offer a standard privacy guarantee impose extremely high
computational or communication requirements, making them impractical for systems that have
high query volume.
Our System.To bridge this gap, we present Wally, a batched private nearest-neighbor protocol
that turns high query volume into a performance advantage. The key insight is that differential
privacy enables the server to compute over only the queried clusters rather than the entire database,
breaking the linear computation barrier of fully-oblivious schemes like Tiptoe. Unlike prior sublinear
schemes such as Pacmann, which require clients to stream the entire database offline (614 MB of

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 3
client storage) and perform many sequential round trips, Wally requires no offline phase, no large
client-side storage, and no interactive rounds.
Wally batches queries from non-coordinating clients and processes them in fixed-duration epochs.
Each client adds fake queries drawn from a negative binomial distribution. This distribution is
a natural fit because fake query counts must be non-negative integers, ruling out continuous
distributions like the Gaussian. Moreover, the negative binomial is infinitely divisible, which allows
non-coordinating clients to independently generate noise whose aggregate provably provides(𝜖,𝛿) -
DP, without any client-to-client communication. All queries (real and fake) are routed through an
existing anonymization service that strips identifying information. Unlike traditional shuffle-DP
protocols that require a dedicated shuffler to collect and permute all messages before forwarding,
each client in Wally independently sends queries at uniformly random time slots within the epoch.
The anonymization network simply forwards queries as they arrive, and the shuffling emerges
implicitly from the random timing and anonymization. This is significantly more practical than
a centralized shuffler, which introduces a single point of trust and failure. If the shuffler goes
down, the entire service halts. In Wally, individual clients can join or leave without affecting
other participants, and the protocol leverages widely deployed anonymization services rather than
requiring purpose-built infrastructure. As a result, the server observes only a noisy histogram of
cluster accesses that is statistically independent of any single client’s queries. Wally further utilizes
SHE to compute similarity scores between encrypted query embeddings and cluster embeddings,
reducing the response to only the scores rather than the full cluster contents. Once a client identifies
its nearest neighbor, it privately fetches the associated metadata using keyword private information
retrieval (keyword PIR). We propose novel optimizations to both SHE and keyword PIR that yield
2-3×improvements.
Wally achieves7 -29× higher QPS and6.7-31× lower communication than Tiptoe, and15,000×
lower client storage than Pacmann. The protocol provides a tunable accuracy-performance trade-
off at fixed differential privacy, allowing system designers to improve accuracy with graceful
performance degradation.
Wally trades full obliviousness for (𝜖,𝛿) -differential privacy, a weaker but widely accepted
privacy standard. While fully-oblivious schemes like Tiptoe and Pacmann reveal nothing about the
queried cluster, this guarantee comes at the cost of linear computation or massive client storage. In
contrast, Wally’s DP guarantee bounds the server’s ability to infer any single client’s queries to a
multiplicative factor of𝑒𝜖, except with probability𝛿. We set𝜖= 0.1and 𝛿= 2−26, which represent
a strong privacy guarantee. This relaxation is precisely what enables sublinear server cost, and we
argue it is a favorable tradeoff for high-throughput applications where the performance cost of full
obliviousness is prohibitive.
Motivational example.Our PNN is suitable for a wide range of applications. Here, we provide
a concrete example from AI-based photo systems. Clients want to privately annotate their photos
with relevant context retrieved from a knowledge database stored on a server. By utilizing the
enhanced photo context, on-device models can generate better search results and recommendations.
At scale, these systems have millions of users. These retrievals can occur in the background since
the enhanced search experience doesn’t need to be immediately available. In other words, high
throughput is a must, while low latency can be relaxed. Therefore, batch processing is natural.
Clients submit their photo embeddings to a batch, which is processed during scheduled epochs.
Once the relevant context is retrieved and integrated, the enhanced systems provide more accurate
photo search and personalized recommendations.
The protocol’s privacy guarantee necessitates that the anonymization service and the server
remain independent. We contend that our approach is more practical than a generic 2PC-based
solution [77]. This is because numerous independent applications rely on anonymization services,

4 Asi et al.
and their security models depend on the trustworthiness of these services. Consequently, the
anonymization network has a significant economic incentive to avoid colluding with any single
partner, including our server.
Our contributions.We make the following contributions:
(1) We propose Wally, a batched private nearest-neighbor protocol with sublinear server com-
putation, no offline phase, no large client-side storage, and no interactive rounds. Prior
sublinear schemes such as Pacmann require clients to stream the entire database offline and
perform many sequential round trips. Wally instead uses differential privacy to hide which
clusters were accessed, enabling the server to compute over only the queried clusters. To
our knowledge, this is the first system where differential privacy directly enables efficient
private search.
(2) We introduce a distributed noise mechanism based on infinitely divisible distributions
(negative binomial) that allows non-coordinating clients to independently generate fake
queries whose aggregate provably provides (𝜖,𝛿) -DP. This requires no client-to-client
communication or synchronization beyond a shared epoch structure. We provide a formal
security proof demonstrating the privacy of the protocol against semi-honest adversaries.
(3) We propose several optimizations to keyword PIR and SHE computation that are of in-
dependent interest. For keyword PIR, we introduce two-table cuckoo hashing, optimized
database layouts using uneven dimensions, and evaluation key reduction, yielding a2 -3×
improvement in server computation and communication. For SHE, we develop lazy mod-
ular reduction in the NTT and ciphertext operations, improving BFV runtime by20 -25%,
and a plaintext RNS technique that enables high-precision similarity computation without
increasing request size.
(4) We implemented the BFV SHE scheme in Swift and released it as a standalone open-source
library. This is, to our knowledge, the first production-quality homomorphic encryption
library in Swift, and it incorporates all of the above optimizations. The library is highly
versatile and can be integrated into other privacy-preserving applications.
(5) We evaluate Wally against state-of-the-art private search systems and demonstrate that
Wally achieves7 -29× higher QPS and6 .7-31× lower communication than Tiptoe, and
15,000× lower client storage than Pacmann, while maintaining strong(𝜖=0.1,𝛿= 2−26)-DP
and comparable or better accuracy.
1.1 Overview
At a high level, Wally uses a clustering-based approximate nearest-neighbor scheme. This is the
same search procedure implemented in modern vector search libraries and RAG retrieval stacks
(e.g., FAISS IVF-Flat/IVF-PQ, Milvus IVF, Google ScaNN).
Index construction (server side).The server hosts 𝑁 assets and encodes each asset 𝑥 into
an embedding𝑓(𝑥)∈R 𝑑 using an embedding model𝑓 . The embedding function is semantic: the
inner product between vectors of similar assets is large (equivalently, these vectors have high
cosine similarity after normalization). The server then partitions the𝑁 embeddings into𝐾 clusters
(e.g., via𝑘-means clustering) and shares the 𝐾 centroids{𝑐1,...,𝑐 𝐾} of these clusters with the
participating clients.
Nearest-neighbor querying.A non-private search operates as follows. Given a query𝑞,
(1) The client computes its embedding𝑓(𝑞)and selects theΔnearest centroids to𝑓(𝑞).
(2) The client sends thoseΔcluster identifiers to the server.
(3) The server returns the candidate set consisting of the embeddings (and their IDs) in the
selected clusters.

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 5
(4) The client re-ranks the candidates locally using exact similarity to obtain the true nearest
neighbor.
This protocol lacks privacy; by monitoring the cluster IDs of clients’ query, the server gains
insight into their inquiries. Since single-query PNN systems are inefficient, we consider PNN at the
batch level.
Wally: batched private nearest neighbor search.Let 𝑈 represent the number of clients
participating in a batch, each contributing a maximum of Δ cluster queries. Our protocol ensures
the server’s batch-level observation is a noisy histogram of cluster counts with per-client sensitivity
ofΔ, yielding(𝜀,𝛿)-DP. The next paragraphs detail the construction.
In the first step of the construction, all queries are routed through an anonymization service.
This strips queries of all identifiable information, such as IP addresses, before forwarding them
to the Wally server. We assume that the anonymity network combines queries that arrive within
one-second slots and forwards them together.
Although the queries are anonymized, this does not guarantee privacy. The server can infer
information about the client’s query by analyzing the access pattern (e.g., whether a particular
cluster is accessed). Therefore, in addition, each participating client also issues fake queries to
obscure access patterns. The number of fake queries per client is distributed according to a negative
binomial distribution. The expected number of fake queries is very small. To generate a single
fake query, the client selects a uniform random cluster and queries it. Importantly, the client does
not need to coordinate this query with the server or with other clients. As shown in section 8,
the overhead of fake queries is modest (on average one to two fake queries per real query). We
emphasize that fake queries do not affect the accuracy or correctness seen by any client, as the
client can discard these responses.
The protocol operates in fixed-durationepochs, each of which defines a batch of queries from 𝑈
clients. Within an epoch, each client schedules queries at uniformly random time slots, preventing
the server from linking queries to clients via timing. The per-client overhead of fake queries scales
inversely with𝑈, so high query volume directly reduces overhead.
We show that anonymizing queries, sampling fake queries from a negative binomial distribution,
and randomizing the query schedule within an epoch are equivalent to sharing with the server a
noised histogramof queries from all clients. We then prove that this noisy histogram guarantees
(𝜖,𝛿)-DP.
For fixed𝑈 and Δ, the expected number of fake queries increases linearly with the number of
clusters𝐾. Therefore, to reduce the overhead of fake queries, we set𝐾 to a lower value. But doing
so will increase cluster sizes, which in turn would lead to high response overhead, as the server
returns embeddings for the entire cluster for each query. To reduce response overhead, we utilize
somewhat homomorphic encryption (SHE). Specifically, for each real query, the client encrypts the
query embedding using SHE and sends it, along with the corresponding cluster identifier, to the
server. For a fake query, the client encrypts an arbitrary embedding and picks a cluster identifier
uniformly at random.
The server computes the similarity by performing a dot product between the encrypted query em-
beddings and cluster embeddings under SHE. Conceptually, this requires multiplying an encrypted
client vector with the server plaintext embedding matrix; therefore, we adopt the diagonal matrix
encoding of [44]. For similarity computations, this encoding eliminates unnecessary (typically ex-
pensive) SHE operations, such as rotations and ciphertext-ciphertext multiplications. Furthermore,
this requires only a single level of ciphertext-plaintext multiplication to compute similarity scores.
We extend this encoding with efficient plaintext packing, enabling the packing of thousands of
scores into a single SHE ciphertext.

6 Asi et al.
Private metadata fetch.In many applications, once the client has identified a nearest neighbor,
it wants to fetch metadata for that asset. As mentioned, we rely on keyword private information
retrieval (keyword PIR) for metadata fetch. At a high level, once all clients have identified the
entries nearest to their embeddings, they participate in a batch keyword PIR protocol to retrieve
metadata. Our batch keyword PIR follows the same blueprint as our batch PNN search protocol.
The server divides the metadata into clusters. The client queries real and fake clusters at random
instances. For each real query, the client generates a keyword PIR query for the identifier of the
nearest neighbors as input. Similarly, for each fake query, the client can use any fake keyword
to generate a keyword PIR query. The server then evaluates the keyword PIR queries against the
desired clusters and returns encrypted responses containing the desired metadata to the client.
Our keyword PIR scheme uses cuckoo hashing to map keywords to buckets and then uses
SHE-based index PIR scheme MulPIR to fetch particular buckets [ 6]. We propose several novel
optimizations that improve the computation and reduce the communication overhead by2 -3×. We
believe that these optimizations are of independent interest.
Implementation.We implemented similarity computation and keyword PIR using the BFV
SHE scheme in Swift. To optimize the implementation, we employed various techniques. For
instance, in BFV SHE operations, integer modulus operations are bottlenecks. To mitigate this, we
evaluate operations in large integer buffers and perform the modulus operation only when the
buffer overflows. Additionally, when we evaluate the same operation multiple times in a sequence,
we utilize hoisting (moving invariant computations outside loops) to avoid redundant steps. We
have released all these optimizations along with our implementation of BFV as a standalone Swift
library.
We discuss related works in section 9.
2 Background
Let[𝑛] :={ 1,...,𝑛} . Matrices are in bold capitals (e.g.,M) and vectors in bold lowercase (e.g.,
v). All logarithms are natural unless stated. Sampling𝑎 from a distribution𝐷 is written𝑎←𝐷 ;
for finite set 𝑆,𝑎←𝑆 denotes uniform sampling. We write Z for integers and Z𝑄 for integers
modulo𝑄. For parameters𝑟,𝑝 ,NB(𝑟,𝑝) is the negative binomial distribution with pmf Pr[𝑋=
𝑘]=  𝑘+𝑟−1
𝑘
(1−𝑝) 𝑘𝑝𝑟 ,𝑘≥0, which is infinitely divisible (Def. 2.1).
Definition 2.1.A distribution D is infinitely divisible if for all𝑛∈N , it can be expressed as the
sum of𝑛i.i.d. variables. I.e., there exists aD ′ such thatX 1+···+X 𝑛∼DandX 𝑖∼D′.
Differential privacyIntuitively, a protocol between many clients and a server is differentially
private if it is hard to tell whether or not a specific client is present in the protocol. We use
the standard notion of differential privacy (DP) [ 32, 33]: a randomized mechanism 𝑀 is(𝜖,𝛿) -
differentially private for𝜖≥ 0and 𝛿∈[ 0, 1], if for any two datasets𝑋,𝑋′ differing on one element,
and for any subset𝑆 of possible transcripts output by𝑀, Pr[𝑀(𝑋)∈𝑆]≤𝑒 𝜖·Pr[𝑀(𝑋 ′)∈𝑆]+𝛿
where the probability is over the randomness of𝑀. We use basic composition in DP [80, Lem. 2.3].
Lemma 2.2.If 𝑀1(𝑋),...,𝑀 𝑘(𝑋) are each(𝜖,𝛿) -DP with independent randomness, then(𝑀𝑖(𝑋))𝑘
𝑖=1
is(𝑘𝜖,𝑘𝛿)-DP.
Anonymous networksAnonymous networks (ANs), also known as anonymization networks or
anonymous communication protocols, provide user anonymity through cryptographic techniques
such as onion routing [42] and mixnets [23]. These protocols route messages through multiple
intermediaries, calledmixesorhops. Throughout this paper, we assume that ANs (1) remove all
identifying information from client queries and (2) batch queries within one-second intervals before
forwarding them to the next hop.

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 7
2.1 Somewhat Homomorphic Encryption (SHE)
We focus on SHE schemes based on the ring learning with errors (RLWE) problem. Concretely,
Wally can be implemented using any SHE scheme such as BFV [ 37] or BGV [ 20]. A plaintext
𝑚 is a polynomial in a ring 𝑅𝑡 =Z 𝑡[𝑋]/(𝑋 𝑛+ 1) (with degree at most 𝑛− 1). The secret key
𝑠 is a polynomial of degree 𝑛− 1with small coefficients, in {0,± 1}. A ciphertext is a pair of
polynomials ct=(𝑐 0,𝑐 1)=(𝑎,𝑎𝑠+⌊𝑄/𝑡⌋𝑚+𝑒) ∈𝑅 2
𝑄 where 𝑄 is ciphertext modulus and
𝑅𝑄 :=Z 𝑄[𝑋]/(𝑋 𝑛+ 1). Here𝑎 is picked uniformly at random and 𝑒 is a noise polynomial with
coefficients sampled from a centered binomial distribution. A scheme satisfies its decryption formula:
𝑐0+𝑐 1𝑠mod𝑄=⌊𝑄/𝑡⌋𝑚+𝑒 . This noise polynomial’s coefficients grow as we compute more
homomorphic operations on the ciphertext, and we can only decrypt correctly if∥𝑒∥ ∞ <𝑄/2𝑡.
Vectorized SHE.When a plaintext modulus 𝑡 is a prime satisfying𝑡= 1 mod 2𝑛, BGV and BFV
support operations on plaintext vectors of degree𝑛 encoded as polynomials. Here, each ciphertext
encrypts a plaintext vectorv ∈Z 𝑛
𝑡 , and the homomorphic operations are vector-wise. Vectorized
SHE is crucial for homomorphic linear algebra.
SHE operations and costs.The SHE schemes we consider support the following operations
(in vector and polynomial arithmetric). Let Enc(v) denote a valid encryption ofv ∈Z 𝑛
𝑡 . Given
ct=Enc(v),ct ′ =Enc(v′),
•CtCtAdd(ct,ct ′)returnsct + =Enc(v+v ′).
•PtCtMult(ct,v ′)returnsct × =Enc(v⊙v ′).
•CtCtMult(ct,ct ′,𝑒𝑘)returnsct × =Enc(v⊙v ′).
•CtRotate(ct,𝑟,𝑒𝑘) for 𝑟∈ [ 0,𝑛/ 2) returns a ciphertext encrypting (Rot( v),Rot( ¯v)) ∈
Z𝑛/2
𝑡 ×Z𝑛/2
𝑡 where Rot(v) (Rot( ¯v)) isv( ¯v) cyclically shifted to the left by𝑟 positions, if ct
originally encryptedv′ =(v, ¯v). We can also homomorphically swap(v, ¯v).
CtCtAdd and PtCtMult are efficient, with the latter incurring noise growth proportional to𝑡.
CtCtMult is costlier, causing large noise growth from polynomial multiplication and reduction
modulo𝑄. CtRotate add little noise but are slow due to key-switching. Thus, minimizingCtCtMult
andCtRotateis key for scalability.
Evaluation keys. CtCtMult and CtRotate require evaluation keys that depend on the client’s
secret key. Typically, the server could store the evaluation keys once in typical SHE applications
and reuse them across various client requests. However, the server learns the requests belonging to
the same client. Looking ahead, this will break the privacy guarantee in Wally; therefore, the client
must send fresh evaluation keys with each request. These keys contribute to the client’s request
size.
2.2 Threat Model
Wally has three kinds of entities: clients, an anonymization service, and the server. Client queries
must remain private from all other parties under the following threat assumptions.
The server is semi-honest: it follows the protocol but attempts to infer queries from observed
traffic. Malicious clients may deviate by withholding fake queries (described in section 3), which
can weaken privacy guarantees for others.
We assume the server and anonymization service do not collude. This is practical since widely de-
ployed anonymization systems (e.g., Tor, mix networks) already support privacy-critical applications
and have strong disincentives to collude with individual servers.
Under these assumptions, Wally ensures differential privacy for honest clients’ queries: the
server’s view is statistically indistinguishable regardless of whether a particular honest client
participates.

8 Asi et al.
Mitigating malicious clients.To address clients who withhold fake queries, honest clients can
over-provision by generating more fake queries than the minimum needed. This increases each
honest client’s fake queries by a factor of1/(1−𝛼) , where𝛼 is an upper bound on the fraction of
malicious clients, and preserves the stated privacy guarantee. For example, tolerating 10% malicious
clients requires only 11% more fake queries per honest client. See section 6 for details.
3 Baseline Private Protocol with High Communication
We will present our protocol in stages. First, in this section, we present a protocol which provides
the required privacy but incurs high communication overhead. This protocol explains sampling of
fake queries, and the scheduling of fake and real queries, which help us prove client privacy. Then
in Section 5, we build on this protocol and reduce communication by using SHE. Lastly, Section 6
contains the proof of security for our final protocol.
We begin by discussing the main ingredients of approximate nearest neighbors search - embed-
dings and clustering.
Embeddings.Similar to state-of-the-art vector databases and prior PNN protocols, Wally uses
embeddings to represent unstructured data as𝑑-dimensional vectors. These vectors preserve seman-
tic similarity, allowing nearest-neighbor search over text, images, or videos. Wally is compatible
with modern embedding models such as BERT [28].
Clustering-based nearest neighbors search.The server stores 𝑁 entries, each containing
a document (e.g., text or image) and associated metadata. In the offline phase, the server maps
each document to its embedding. During a query, the client embeds its input and seeks the nearest
server embedding and corresponding metadata. Similar to previous PNN protocols, Wally employs
a clustering-based approximate nearest-neighbor search to retrieve relevant results efficiently. The
protocol has the following flow:
• Initialization.At initialization, the server divides the document embeddings into𝐾 clusters
using𝐾-means clustering, a heuristic-based technique that partitions data into𝐾 disjoint
clusters{𝐶𝑖}𝐾
𝑖=1, and outputs these clusters and their centroid embeddings {𝑐𝑖}𝐾
𝑖=1. The
server also divides the document metadata into the same clusters. The server sends the
centroid embeddings to the client.
• Query.To make a query, the client first locally finds Δ clusters nearest to the query
embedding,𝐶′
1,···,𝐶 ′
Δ. For this, the client locally computes the cosine similarity between
the query and each of the centroid embeddings and picks clusters whose centroid has the
highest similarity. The client then sends the nearest clusters𝐶′
1,···,𝐶 ′
Δ to the server.
• Response.The server responds by sending all the embeddings and their metadata in clusters
𝐶′
1,···,𝐶 ′
Δ to the client.
• Local client computation.The client locally computes cosine similarity between the
query embedding and each embedding in clusters𝐶′
1,···,𝐶 ′
Δ, sorts the scores to find the
closest embedding, and retrieves the corresponding metadata.
Clustering trades accuracy for performance: more clusters reduce computation and response
size, but increase the chance of missing the true nearest neighbor. Hence, choosing an appropriate
number of clusters is crucial for system usability.
This protocol is not private: to protect the client’s query, the protocol must hide the nearest
clusters from the server. Revealing the closest clusters could expose information about the query
since the cluster centroids reveal semantic information.

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 9
3.1 Hiding Near Clusters using Differential Privacy
Hiding the nearest clusters from the server is a key performance bottleneck in previous SHE-based
schemes, such as Tiptoe. Tiptoe does not support querying only the clusters the client is interested
in. This is because skipping a cluster will indicate to the server that the client’s query is not in
those clusters. Thus, to hide the query clusters, the client must send encrypted material foreach
cluster. Similarly, the server performs expensive SHE operations against all the clusters. Computing
over the entire database hides the nearest cluster completely, but this results in prohibitively poor
performance.
To overcome this issue, we propose an approach based on differential privacy. The key advan-
tage is thatthe protocol no longer requires touching all the clusters, which results in a significant
performance improvement. While differential privacy offers a different privacy guarantee than the
full obliviousness provided by Tiptoe, it remains a widely accepted privacy notion. Our approach
provides(𝜖,𝛿) -DP. Intuitively, this guarantees that the maximum privacy loss due to the client’s
queries is essentially bounded by𝑒 𝜖 with probability at least1−𝛿.
We observe that in large-scale applications, many clients make queries concurrently. In other
words, these applications naturally fit a batch processing model, where the server processes a batch
of client queries at a time. For such applications, we design a protocol that works on a batch of
queries from non-coordinating clients. Our protocol hides a particular client query within a batch
of queries from all participating clients.
Our protocol considers𝑈users and a batch of size𝑈·Δ. We require the following steps.
Anonymized queries.All queries in a batch are anonymized. To achieve this, each client
routes their queries through an existing anonymization service. We assume, as is standard, that
the anonymization service does not collude with the server. Since many such services already
exist and are widely trusted, clients can choose their preferred provider. This makes our protocol
more practical than standard multiparty computation, which typically requires dedicated, trusted
infrastructure.
Even with anonymized queries, the server may still infer information by analyzing traffic patterns.
For instance, if the server knows that only a specific client is interested in a particular cluster,
observing access to that cluster could reveal the client’s identity. To address this, our protocol
ensures that queries are deniable.
To achieve such deniability, we make the following changes:
Fake queries.Each client makes a few fake queries. Specifically, for each cluster, the client
samples𝑍←D fake queries. We choose a distributionD such that the server’s overall view after
seeing all queries is differentially private. In expectation, the client makes E[D] fake queries per
cluster, for a total of𝐾·E[D].
Epochs.The protocol operates in fixed-durationepochs, each defining a batch of queries from
𝑈 clients. The protocol guarantees that the server processes all queries by the end of the epoch.
Each client receives results by the end of the epoch. Note that even in non-private systems, fixed
infrastructure imposes variable query latency; some queries inevitably complete later than others,
so epoch-based processing aligns naturally with the resource constraints of large-scale deployments.
The per-client overhead of fake queries scales inversely with 𝑈 , so high query volume directly
reduces overhead. Epochs do not require synchronization across clients; however, participating
clients must stay online throughout an epoch. Each client sends cluster IDs as independent queries
rather than together.
Timing channel protection.Even with epochs, the server can exploit arrival times to link
queries to specific clients. For example, if a client is known to have a poor network, its queries will
tend to arrive towards the end. To suppress this leakage, each epoch is divided into one-second

10 Asi et al.
slots. For each query (real or fake), the client independently picks a random slot. This ensures that
the server cannot link query timing to a specific client, as the random scheduling and fixed epoch
duration decouple query arrival times from client identity.
In section 6, we prove that sampling the number of fake queries from a negative binomial
distribution with parameters𝑝=𝑒 −0.2𝜖/Δ and𝑟= 3(1+log( 1/𝛿))/𝑈 , along with a random query
schedule, guarantees(2𝜖,2Δ𝛿)-differential privacy.
Drawback.Even though the protocol conceals the closest clusters, it incurs high communication
costs. Concretely, the server transmits embeddings and metadata for all the nearest clusters to the
client, resulting in substantial communication overhead.
Metadata Fetch.After determining the index of the nearest entry, the client retrieves the
metadata associated with it. When the metadata per entry is small, the server returns the metadata
for the entire cluster with each query. Note that this does not leak any additional information since
the server already knows the query cluster. The client then selects the metadata associated with the
most relevant entry locally. However, if the metadata is large (in kilobytes), it becomes infeasible to
download the entire cluster.
4 Optimizing Communication using SHE
Fig. 1. An example dot-product computation for a single cluster with three slices (𝑑= 3,𝑛= 9). Plaintext
vector 𝑗 packs the 𝑗-th wrap-around diagonal of every slice. The server aligns the query only once for all
slices; the output is a single ciphertext whose slots are the dot products of the query with each embedding in
the cluster.
We use SHE to reduce the communication of this protocol by computing encrypted similarity
scores server-side. In this section, we discuss the details of our efficient SHE-based instantiation as
well as describe our novel optimizations to MulPIR [6], used in metadata fetch for large metadata
entries.
4.1 Reducing Communication in Nearest Neighbor Search
At a high level, instead of sending only the closest centroids, each client query (real or fake) includes
the query embedding. An immediate problem with this approach is that these embeddings preserve
the semantic meaning of the original data while also containing sensitive information about it.
Recent work has shown that embeddings can reveal up to 92%of the original data [ 58]. Therefore,
the client cannot send the embedding to the server in plaintext. Instead, the client first encrypts
this embedding using SHE. To maintain anonymity, for each real query, the client generates a new

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 11
SHE encryption of the query embedding. Similarly, for each fake query, the client generates a new
encryption using a fake value.
We rely on vectorized, RLWE-based SHE described in section 2 to hide a query embedding. At
a high level, the client sends an SHE encryption of its embedding to the server, and the server
homomorphically computes similarity scores between the query embedding and all the embeddings
in the nearest cluster. The server then returns encrypted scores to the client.
Looking ahead, the server will need to compute many encrypted cosine similarity scores via
SHE dot-products. We apply thediagonal encodingof Halevi and Shoup [ 44] in order to efficiently
compute these dot-products under SHE: we organize each cluster into square matrices (slices), then
encode these matrices as plaintext vectors according to their diagonals (Figure 1).
Server database.Recall that the server database is divided into 𝐾 clusters. Each cluster consists
of at most 𝑁′ embeddings. For simplicity, we assume that for a given cluster 𝐶𝑖, the dataset is
represented as a cube𝐷𝐶𝑖 of dimensions⌈𝑁′/𝑑⌉×𝑑×𝑑 , where𝑑 is the embedding dimension. Each
cube consists of⌈𝑁′/𝑑⌉ slices, each of which is a matrix of dimensions 𝑑×𝑑 , and each column
within a slice is an embedding. Denote elements of 𝑗-th embedding as 𝑒𝑗 =[𝑒 0
𝑗,···,𝑒 𝑑−1
𝑗 ]. For
now, we assume that the plaintext dimension𝑛=𝑑 and each diagonal within a slice is a separate
plaintext. That is, each slice contains𝑑plaintext vectors, and the𝑗-th vector consists of entries
𝑝𝑗 =[𝑒 𝑗mod𝑑
0 ,𝑒(𝑗+1)mod𝑑
1 ,···,𝑒 (𝑗+𝑑−1)mod𝑑
𝑑−1 ].
Equivalently,𝑝𝑗 walks diagonally through the slice: it picks one entry from each embedding,
stepping the row index by 1 (with wrap-around). The client encrypts the query embedding ˆ𝑞=
[𝑞0,𝑞 1,···,𝑞 𝑑−1]in a single SHE ciphertext.
Secure dot-product computation.Recall from section 2 that the server needs to compute a
dot-product to calculate the cosine similarity between two normalized embeddings. To achieve that,
the server must align the query so that each element-wise multiplication pair corresponds to the
elements of the query and plaintext vectors, i.e., every multiplication is of the form𝑒𝑖mod𝑑
𝑗 ·𝑞𝑖. The
server uses homomorphic rotation to align the elements of the encrypted query vector. Specifically,
for a given slice, starting with the first plaintext vector 𝑗= 0, the server performsvectorized
ciphertext-plaintextmultiplication between the query ciphertext and the first plaintext vector.
This results in encrypted𝑝0· ˆ𝑞=[𝑒 0
0·𝑞 0,𝑒 1
1·𝑞 1,𝑒 2
2·𝑞 2,···,𝑒 𝑑−1
𝑑−1·𝑞𝑑−1]. The first multiplication
requires no rotation because the query is already aligned with the first vector. The elements
of the second plaintext vector 𝑗= 1are 𝑝1 =[𝑒 1
0,𝑒 2
1,𝑒 3
2,···,𝑒 0
𝑑−1]. Hence, the server cannot
multiply it directly by the query vector. The server first homomorphically rotates the query vector
one slot to the left, resulting in query vector ˆ𝑞1 =[𝑞 1,𝑞 2,···,𝑞 0], then multiplies the result:
𝑝1· ˆ𝑞1 =[𝑒 1
0·𝑞 1,𝑒 2
1·𝑞 2,𝑒 3
2·𝑞 3,···,𝑒 0
𝑑−1·𝑞 0]. The server then repeats this for all the remaining
plaintext vectors in a slice: rotating the query vector in increments of one and multiplying it by the
plaintext vector. By the end, the server has𝑝0· ˆ𝑞,𝑝 1· ˆ𝑞1,···,𝑝 𝑑−1· ˆ𝑞𝑑−1 encrypted products. The
server then sums all of these vectors together, resulting in a single encrypted vector in which each
slot is a dot product between the client query vector and one of the embeddings in the slice.
Database and query packing.The above description assumes that the plaintext dimension 𝑛
equals the embedding dimension𝑑. However,𝑛 is often significantly larger than𝑑. In this setting,
each plaintext vector could hold multiple diagonals. We assume that 𝑛 is divisible by 𝑑. When
that is not the case, we pad the embeddings to the next integer that divides𝑛. We can pack𝑛/𝑑
diagonals across the slices in a single plaintext vector. From here on, we denote a set of𝑑 plaintexts
as a chunk, and after encoding, each cluster has𝑁′/𝑛 chunks of plaintexts. Concretely, the𝑗-th
plaintext vector of the first chunk holds the𝑗-th diagonal of the first𝑛/𝑑slices.
The client query encrypts a plaintext vector of 𝑛/𝑑 repetitions of the query embedding. The
server still aligns the query embedding by homomorphically rotating it left by increments of 1.

12 Asi et al.
This step remains the same as in the previous case. The server then performs ciphertext-plaintext
multiplications and sums plaintexts chunk-wise (summing the first𝑑 plaintexts, and so on). The
number of ciphertext-plaintext multiplications is now⌈𝑁′/𝑛⌉·𝑑 while the response consists of
⌈𝑁′/𝑛⌉ ciphertexts. In Figure 1, we show an example of packing and multiplication for𝑛= 9and
𝑑=3.
Recall from section 2 that homomorphic rotation is costly. In the above explanation, the server
performs𝑑 rotations even after packing to align the query. In Wally we use the standard baby-step
giant-step (BSGS) optimization [44] to minimize the number of rotations: for𝑑-dimensional inner
products, BSGS requires only
√
𝑑 rotations for step sizes of1(baby step) and
√
𝑑 (giant step). See
Algorithm 1 in [44].
4.2 Reducing Communication in Metadata Fetch
When metadata is large (in kilobytes), instead of downloading metadata for the entire cluster, the
client obliviously retrieves metadata for only the most relevant entry within a single cluster. To
achieve that, we employ keyword PIR.
Our construction is based on cuckoo hashing and SHE-based PIR. Concretely, after receiving
encrypted scores, the client finds the most relevant embedding and its cluster locally. The client
then uses the identity of this entry to generate a keyword PIR query against that cluster. The
metadata query is then the index of the cluster containing this entry, as well as the PIR keyword
query.
Protecting privacy in metadata fetch.Note that we must still protect the query to the cluster.
Therefore, to fetch metadata, clients participate in an additional epoch with Δ= 1. As in previous
epochs, we also require anonymized queries; clients generate fake queries and execute them at
random slots within an epoch.
Details of keyword PIR.The server partitions the metadata entries into 𝐾 clusters. The server
encodes each entry as a keyword-value pair, where the keyword is the entry ID and the value is the
metadata. For ease of explanation, we assume that each cluster consists of at most𝑁′ entries. The
server uses cuckoo hashing to map the𝑁′ entries into a table of size(1+𝑢)𝑁 ′ using two random
hash functionsℎ1 andℎ2, where typically𝑢≈ 0.5. The guarantee is that if akeywordis present
in the database, it must be located at index ℎ1(keyword) orℎ2(keyword) in the table. The client
uses index PIR to privately fetch entries at these two indices and locally find the index containing
the entry and associated data. Wally uses MulPIR [ 6] as the underlying index PIR, an efficient
single-server PIR scheme based on SHE. We emphasize that even though we instantiate Wally with
MulPIR, it is compatible with any modern efficient PIR scheme.
Overview of MulPIR.The server arranges the database entries in a 𝑑1×𝑑 2 matrix, where
𝑑1·𝑑 2 =𝑁 ′. For this explanation, we assume that each metadata entry has the same size as the SHE
plaintext. If entries are larger than a plaintext, then we split each entry across multiple plaintexts.
If entries are smaller, then we pack multiple entries into a single plaintext when applicable. A client
query in MulPIR is a single ciphertext ˆ𝑞 encoding the target entry’s indices along both dimensions.
Given a query, the server does the following.
(1) Expand ˆ𝑞 into two indicator vectors of lengths𝑑1 and𝑑2. The server uses the oblivious ex-
pansion algorithm given in [6], whose cost is dominated by(𝑑1+𝑑 2) substitution operations
(Galois automorphisms followed by key-switching).
(2) Process the first dimension using𝑑1·𝑑 2 plaintext-ciphertext multiplications and additions,
producing a𝑑 2-length ciphertext vector.
(3) Process the second dimension using𝑑2 ciphertext-ciphertext multiplications and additions,
producing a single ciphertext that is the response.

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 13
PIR Optimizations.We present several optimizations to MulPIR that yield a2 -3× improvement
in server computation and communication.
Splitting cuckoo hash tables.As described above, keyword PIR requires the client to fetch entries
at bothℎ1(keyword) andℎ2(keyword) in the cuckoo hash table. The cuckoo hash table has(1+𝑢)𝑁′
slots for𝑁′ entries, so each lookup requires a separate index PIR query on the full table, costing
≈ 2(1+𝑢)𝑁 ′ plaintext-ciphertext multiplications total. We optimize this by splitting the database
entries into two separate tables, one forℎ1 and one forℎ2. Each table contains≈𝑁 ′/2entries, and
we run a single index PIR query on each, skipping empty slots. This reduces the total cost to≈𝑁 ′
plaintext-ciphertext multiplications, a3×improvement for𝑢=0.5.
Uneven dimensions.For a database with 𝑁′ =𝑑 1·𝑑 2 entries, the server’s computation in MulPIR
consists of three types of operations:
• Step 1 (expansion):(𝑑1+𝑑 2) substitution operations to expand the query ciphertext into
indicator vectors.
•Step 2 (first dimension):𝑑 1·𝑑 2 plaintext-ciphertext multiplications and additions.
•Step 3 (second dimension):𝑑 2 ciphertext-ciphertext multiplications and additions.
As shown in Table 1, plaintext-ciphertext multiplications are inexpensive (0.02ms), while substi-
tution operations cost𝑡𝑠 = 0.5ms and ciphertext-ciphertext multiplications cost 𝑡𝑚 = 2.5ms, so
𝛾=𝑡 𝑚/𝑡𝑠 = 5. The database size fixes the plaintext-ciphertext operations in step 2 and cannot be
reduced. However, we observe a trade-off between the substitution operations in step 1 and the
ciphertext-ciphertext multiplications in step 3: by choosing uneven dimensions with𝑑1 >𝑑 2, we
increase the cheaper substitution operations while reducing the expensive ciphertext-ciphertext
multiplications.
Concretely, the server’s cost for expansion (step 1) and the second dimension (step 3) is(𝑑1+
𝑑2)𝑡𝑠+𝑑 2𝑡𝑚. Dividing by𝑡𝑠 and substituting𝛾=𝑡 𝑚/𝑡𝑠, the total cost in substitution operations is
𝑑1+(𝛾+1)𝑑 2.
Since𝑑 1·𝑑 2 =𝑁 ′, we substitute𝑑 1 =𝑁 ′/𝑑2 to express the cost as a function of𝑑 2 alone:
𝑁′
𝑑2
+(𝛾+1)𝑑 2.
Minimizing over𝑑 2 gives𝑑 2 =
√︃
1
𝛾+1
√
𝑁′≈0.41
√
𝑁′ for𝛾=5.
This optimization improves MulPIR run times by30-40%.
Linearizing parts of query expansion.MulPIR uses an optimized query expansion technique
originated by Angel et al. [8]. In short, the scheme encodes a query index in a plaintext polynomial,
then expands it into𝑘 ciphertexts using𝑘 ciphertext rotation operations (substitutions followed by
key-switching). We noticed that some of these expansions can be substituted with linear operations:
call ct±ct ′ where ct′ is ct rotated. In general, we observe a10 -25% improvement in MulPIR’s
expansion from our optimization.
Reducing evaluation key size.To expand a MulPIR query, the server performs repeated substitution
operations on the client’s query ciphertext using Galois automorphisms𝜎𝑘 :𝑥↦→𝑥 𝑘 in the ring
𝑅𝑄 =Z𝑄[𝑋]/(𝑋 𝑛+1). Each substitution requires its own evaluation key sent by the client. Typically,
the client sends these keys once, and the server reuses them across queries. However, in Wally,
reusing keys would allow the server to link queries to the same client, violating our privacy
requirement. Therefore, the client must send fresh evaluation keys with each query, and these
keys dominate the request size. Note that composing two substitutions yields𝜎𝑘◦𝜎 𝑗 =𝜎𝑘·𝑗mod 2𝑛 .

14 Asi et al.
Therefore, a single key for 𝜎𝑘 suffices to compute 𝜎𝑘 2 mod 2𝑛 on any ciphertext by applying the
substitution twice.
The expansion algorithm requires substitution keys for Galois elements 𝑔𝑎 =𝑛/ 2𝑎+ 1for
𝑎= 0, 1,...,𝑐− 1, where𝑐=⌈log 2𝑑⌉ and𝑑 is the expansion dimension. For 𝑛= 4096, these are
𝑔0 = 4097,𝑔 1 = 2049,𝑔 2 = 1025,𝑔 3 = 513,𝑔 4 = 257,𝑔 5 = 129. Note that𝑔2
𝑎 mod 2𝑛=𝑔 𝑎−1 when
𝑎≤ ⌊(ℓ− 1)/2⌋ (where𝑛= 2ℓ). For 𝑛= 4096, this holds for 𝑎≤ 5, e.g.,129 2 = 16641≡ 257
(mod 8192), but fails for𝑎>5.
We therefore use a hybrid approach in which the client sends a single key for𝑔5, and the server
derives𝑔0,...,𝑔 4 from𝑔5 by repeated squaring. For the remaining higher levels (𝑔6,𝑔 7,... ), the
client sends explicit keys with each request. For example, an expansion of dimension2 12 normally
requires12keys; with our optimization, the client sends7instead, reducing communication by
approximately40%.
This incurs a small computational overhead. To derive 𝑔5−𝑘 from𝑔5, the server applies the
substitution2 𝑘 times instead of once. However, the derived keys are used at early levels of the
expansion tree where few ciphertexts exist (levels0through3have1 , 2, 4, 8ciphertexts respectively),
so the total overhead is small. Concretely, for expanding to2 12 ciphertexts, the optimization adds
129extra substitutions over the normal4095, an overhead of approximately3%.
Table 1. Experimental computation cost and noise growth of each BFV homomorphic operation, measured
on an Intel Xeon w3-2423 (single threaded).
Operation Time (ms) Noise added (bits)
CtCtAdd0.004 0.5
PtCtMult0.02 20
CtCtMult2.5 26
CtSub1 0.5 0.5
5 Wally Protocol
In this section, we describe the complete Wally protocol for a single epoch. We assume that 𝑈
honest clients are present to query within that epoch.
Server initialization.Overview of server initialization is shown in Figure 6. The server database
consists of𝑁 precomputed embeddings and their metadata. The server uses the algorithm in Figure 2
to encode the database with𝑁 embeddings into an index. Specifically, the algorithm divides the
input embeddings into 𝐾 clusters using K-means clustering. The algorithm then iterates over
each cluster separately. The𝑖𝑡ℎ cluster𝐶[𝑖] consists of⌈|𝐶[𝑖]|/𝑑⌉ slices. The algorithm then packs
diagonals from𝑛/𝑑 slices into𝑑 plaintexts. Once plaintext chunks are generated, the algorithm
iterates over each chunk in a group of𝑔=
√
𝑑 plaintexts, rotating each group in increasing multiples
of−𝑔. These rotations are done for the baby-step giant-step (BSGS) optimization [44] that reduces
rotations at query time to
√
𝑑. Note that these rotations are performed on plaintexts, so their cost is
negligible. We only perform these rotations when the number of chunks is less than
√
𝑑.
Query generation.Each client uses the algorithm in Figure 3 to generate queries and their
schedule at the start of an epoch. The high level overview is shown in the Figure 7 The client locally
has a set of cluster centroids𝑐 that the server generates during initialization. The algorithm first
generates independent queries for at most Δ real query embeddings. To generate a𝑗’th real query,
the algorithm picks a centroid id𝑙 nearest to 𝑗’th query embedding. Then, the algorithm copies the
1Same operation asCtRotate; we useCtSubfor substitution operations in PIR query expansion.

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 15
Input:Semantic search databaseD={(e 𝑖,meta𝑖)}𝑖∈[𝑁] , number of clusters𝐾
Output:Plaintext databaseD ptxt, cluster centroidsc
Notation:Let𝑔=
√
𝑑,ℎ=
√
𝑑. LetE[𝑗][𝑘][𝑙]denote the embedding cube, where:
•𝑗∈
hl
|E|
𝑑
mi
indexes the slices,
•𝑘∈[𝑑]indexes the embedding within a slice,
•𝑙∈[𝑑]indexes the slot within an embedding.
1:(c,C)←KMeansClustering(D,𝐾)
2:for𝑖∈[𝐾]do⊲Iterate over each cluster
3:𝐸←C[𝑖]⊲Embeddings cube
4:𝑠← ⌈|𝐸|/𝑑⌉ ⊲Number of slices
5:P←[]
6:for𝑗∈[𝑠]do⊲Iterate over slices
7:if𝑗mod𝑠=0then
8:for𝑘∈[𝑑]do
9:D ptxt[𝑖][⌊𝑗/𝑠⌋]←EncodePtVec(P[𝑘])
10:end for
11:P←[]
12:end if
13:for𝑙∈[𝑑]do⊲Iterate over embeddings
14:for𝑘∈[𝑑]do
15:P[𝑗·𝑑+𝑙][𝑘]←E[𝑗][𝑘][(𝑘+𝑙)mod𝑑]⊲The𝑙 th diagonal
16:end for
17:end for
18:end for
19:for𝑘∈[𝑠]do
20:for𝑎∈[ℎ]do⊲BSGS giant-step index
21:for𝑏∈[𝑔]do⊲BSGS baby-step index
22:D ptxt[𝑎][𝑘][𝑏]←PtRotate(D ptxt[𝑎][𝑘][𝑏],−𝑔·𝑎)
23:end for
24:end for
25:end for
26:end for
27:returnD ptxt,c
Fig. 2. Server Initialization Algorithm
embedding𝑛/𝑑 times into a plaintext vectorvof size 𝑛. This is to take advantage of SHE packing.
The algorithm then generates a fresh SHE secret key sk and evaluation keys evk, and encryptsv
usingsk.
Next, the algorithm generates fake queries. Here, the algorithm iterates over each cluster, sampling
a number of fake queries from the negative binomial distributionNB(𝑟/𝑈,𝑝) . To generate a single
fake query, the algorithm generates a fresh SHE secret keysk and evaluation keys evk, and encrypts
0using sk. Note that the client must generate a fresh evaluation key to keep each query anonymous.
Also, each evaluation key must include keys for rotation steps1and 𝑔, as server computation
rotates by these steps.

16 Asi et al.
Input:Client query𝑞, cluster centroids𝑐={c 𝑙}𝑙∈[𝐾] , number of clients𝑈
Output:ScheduleS
1:v←[]
2:for𝑙∈[⌈𝑛/𝑑⌉]do⊲Repeat𝑞
3:v←v||q
4:end for
5:for𝑙∈[Δ]do⊲Generate real queries
6:(sk 𝑙,evk𝑙)←KeyGen(1 𝜆)
7:ct 𝑙←EncSemPt(sk 𝑙,v)
8:Pick𝑙-th nearest clusterid 𝑙 ofqfrom𝑐
9:𝑄←𝑄||(ct 𝑙,evk𝑙,id𝑙)
10:end for
11:for𝑖∈[𝐾]do
12:𝐹 𝑖←NB(𝑟/𝑈,𝑝)⊲Number of fake queries
13:for𝑗∈[𝐹 𝑖]do⊲Generate fake queries
14:(sk ′
𝑗,evk′
𝑗)←KeyGen(1 𝜆)
15:ct ′
𝑗←EncSemPt(sk′
𝑗,0)
16:Pick random clusterid 𝑗 from𝑐
17:𝑄←𝑄||(ct ′
𝑗,evk′
𝑗,id𝑗)
18:end for
19:end for
20:S←RandScheduleGen(𝑄)⊲Generate schedule
21:returnS
Fig. 3. Client Query Generation Algorithm
The algorithm then permutes the real and fake queries listQand generates a random schedule
for the queries. To generate the scheduleS, for each query 𝑖∈𝑄 , the algorithm picks a random slot
𝑡 independently and appends𝑖 to𝑆[𝑡] . In other words, the scheduleSmaps slot indices to the query
indices. At a particular time slot𝑡 within an epoch, the client will make queries (independently)
indicated by𝑆[𝑡].
Server computation.The server uses the algorithm in Figure 5 to generate a response for every
query received. The algorithm first aligns the query ciphertext ct. That is, first it copies the query
ciphertext𝑔 times and then rotates each copy left in increments of one, in total𝑔 rotations. Then,
the algorithm performs a dot-product between rotated query ciphertexts and the plaintext vectors
for cluster id. Recall that we ensure each cluster is encoded into𝑑 plaintexts. The algorithm iterates
in groups of𝑔 plaintexts; within each group, multiply the𝑖-th plaintext with the𝑖-th copy of the
rotated query and sum the resulting ciphertexts. These iterations yieldℎ=
√
𝑑 ciphertexts. After
that, the algorithm iterates over theℎ resulting ciphertexts, rotating each right in increments of𝑔
and summing all of them into a single ciphertext𝑅. This step requires a total ofℎ rotations. The
algorithm returns𝑅and the clusterid’s metadata.
6 Security
In this section, we prove that if clients follow Figure 3 to generate queries, then the overall system
achieves(2𝜖, 2Δ𝛿)-differential privacy in each epoch. Note from Figure 3 that each query consists of
the nearest centroid and the embedding. We only focus on proving the privacy of centroids because

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 17
Input:ListQof real and fake queries, epoch length𝑇
Output:ScheduleS
1:Initialize a scheduleSas𝑇empty lists
2:for𝑗∈[|Q|]do
3:𝑖←UniformRandom([𝑇])⊲Sample random slot
4:S[𝑖]←S[𝑖]||𝑗
5:end for
6:returnS
Fig. 4. Random Schedule Generation Algorithm
Input:Query(ct,evk,id)
Output:Encrypted scores and data𝑟
1:for𝑗∈[𝑔]do⊲Align query
2:ct ′[𝑗]←CtRotate(ct,𝑗,evk)
3:end for
4:D←D ptxt[id]
5:R←[]
6:for𝑘∈[𝑚]do⊲Iterate over chunks
7:𝑆←0⊲Initialize accumulator
8:for𝑖∈[ℎ]do⊲Giant step
9:for𝑗∈[𝑔]do⊲Baby step summation
10:𝑆←𝑆+CtRotate(D[𝑘]·ct ′[𝑗],𝑔·𝑖,evk)
11:end for
12:end for
13:R←R||𝑆
14:end for
15:data←data id
16:return𝑟:=(R,data)
Fig. 5. Server Computation Algorithm
Fig. 6. Overview of server initialization. First, the server converts documents into embeddings, then clusters
these embeddings, and then encodes them into an index consisting of SHE plaintexts.
the IND-CPA security of SHE protects query embeddings. Therefore in this section, we model each
query as a nearest centroid without an embedding. During each epoch, the server receives multiple
queries for each cluster. Towards the end of the epoch, the server’s view can be considered as a
noisy histogram over all clusters. We consider this as an output of the DP mechanism.

18 Asi et al.
Fig. 7. Overview of query generation at client for a single epoch. The client first converts query into embedding.
Then it finds nearest Δ clusters and creates Δ real queries. It then adds fake queries, encrypts them using SHE,
and generates a random schedule for them. The client then executes each query independently at random
instances within an epoch.
We prove this argument in two steps: First, we show that a noisy histogram output by a curator,
which gets users’ queries as input and uses negative binomial NB mechanism to sample fake
queries, is(2𝜖, 2Δ𝛿)-DP in the central model. Second, we show the view of the server in an epoch
can be simulated from the curator’s output.
Privacy due to malicious clients.We assume all the clients participating in a batch will
follow the protocol. However, a fraction𝛼 of malicious clients could negatively affect privacy by
not submitting fake queries. In the distributed setting, each honest client samples fake queries
fromNB(𝑟/𝑈,𝑝) per cluster, and the sum over 𝑈 honest clients yieldsNB(𝑟,𝑝) . If𝛼𝑈 clients
are malicious and contribute no fakes, the total fake noise per cluster reduces toNB(( 1−𝛼)𝑟,𝑝) ,
degrading the privacy guarantee. To compensate, honest clients can over-provision by sampling
fromNB(𝑟/(𝑈( 1−𝛼)),𝑝) instead ofNB(𝑟/𝑈,𝑝) . The sum from(1−𝛼)𝑈 honest clients then
recoversNB(𝑟,𝑝) , preserving the original(2𝜖, 2Δ𝛿)-DP guarantee. The cost is a1/(1−𝛼) factor
increase in fake queries per honest client. For example, tolerating𝛼= 0.1(10% malicious clients)
requires only 11% more fake queries per honest client.
6.1 DP Security in the Central Model
We define the central model as follows:
Central model.The curator performs the following:
(1) Collects the real queries from all the clients, {𝑅𝑢}𝑢∈[𝑈] , where𝑈 is the total number of
clients, and𝑅𝑢 is each client’s set of queries and will be at most Δ. Let𝑅 denote the list of
all real queries.
(2) For each cluster𝑏, samples the number of fake queries𝐹𝑗←NB(𝑟,𝑝) . Add it to the fake
queries list𝐹.
(3) Given the list of real and fake queries, randomly permute them:list←permute(𝑅,𝐹).
(4) Sendlistto the server.
Another way to view it is that the curator sends a noisy histogram of queries to each cluster to the
server. Recall that each client can contribute at mostΔqueries.
Differential privacy in the central model is stated in the following theorem.
Theorem 6.1.For any query database of size 𝑁 , number of clusters 𝐾, differential privacy parame-
ters𝜖,𝛿∈( 0, 1), and Δ∈N , let𝑝=𝑒 −0.2𝜖/Δ and𝑟= 3(1+log( 1/𝛿)) . Then, the negative binomial
mechanismNB(𝑟,𝑝)is(2𝜖,2Δ𝛿)-DP forΔ-histogram.

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 19
Proof. We define the curator as Algorithm𝑀 that takes input from a database𝑋 of requests
from𝑁 clients and outputs a noisy histogram. We prove the theorem by investigating the affected
buckets when we change the input𝑋by replacing one client with another.
For a particular cluster𝑏 in the histogram, we define𝑀𝑏(·) :=𝑅𝑏+NB(𝑟,𝑝) , where𝑅𝑏 is the
total real queries for the cluster𝑏 in the database. Note that this is the curator’s exact output for
each cluster. We break down the proof into two edge cases: 1) the simpler case where𝑋 and𝑋′
differ by a client which sends all its messages to a single cluster and 2) they differ by a client which
sendsΔmessages toΔdifferent clusters.
Simple case.Consider two neighboring databases 𝑋 and𝑋′ which differ in queries contributed by
a single client. Concretely, in𝑋 the client contributes Δ queries to a cluster𝑏 and in𝑋′ it contributes
to another cluster𝑏′ ≠𝑏 . When𝑗∉{𝑏,𝑏 ′} then𝑀𝑗(𝑅) and𝑀𝑗(𝑅′) are identically distributed. Thus,
the privacy provided by𝑀 𝑗 is 0-DP for all𝑗∉{𝑏,𝑏 ′}.
Now consider the cluster𝑏; the two databases differ by Δ real queries for this cluster. By the
following, lemma𝑀𝑏 provides(𝜖,𝛿)privacy on cluster𝑏.
Lemma 6.2 (Theorem 13 [ 41]).For any 𝜖,𝛿∈ ( 0, 1) and Δ∈N , let 𝑝=𝑒 −0.2𝜖/Δ and 𝑟=
3(1+log( 1/𝛿)) . Then, theNB(𝑟,𝑝) -Mechanism is(𝜖,𝛿) -DP in the central model for Δ-summation2.
We can make a similar argument for a cluster𝑏′. Therefore, by basic composition, Lemma 2.2,
the total privacy provided by𝑀for these neighboring databases is(2𝜖,2𝛿)-DP.
General case.Now, we consider a general case where two neighboring databases that differ in
queries from a single client. In database 𝑋 the client contributes queries 𝛾𝑗 for cluster 𝑗 and in
database𝑋′ the client contributes queries 𝛾′
𝑗 for the cluster 𝑗. Define Δ𝑗 :=|𝛾 𝑗−𝛾′
𝑗|. The total
difference between two neighboring databases is given by ˝𝐵
𝑗 Δ𝑗≤2Δ.
Let𝜖𝑗 := 𝜖Δ 𝑗
Δ ≤𝜖 . Further, we only consider the clusters where Δ𝑗 > 0since the clusters where
Δ𝑗 = 0are already0-DP. (Equivalently, 𝜖𝑗 = 0for these 𝑗.) Then, Lemma 6.2 implies cluster 𝑗 is
(𝜖𝑗,𝛿)-DP forΔ 𝑗-summation for the same mechanism since
𝜖
Δ = 𝜖
Δ· Δ𝑗
Δ𝑗
= 𝜖𝑗
Δ𝑗
.
Simple composition over all the clusters yields
∑︁
𝑗
𝜖𝑗 = 𝜖
Δ
∑︁
𝑗
Δ𝑗≤2𝜖.
Basic composition also yields that the composed protocol has𝛿′ := 2Δ𝛿 since at most2 Δ clusters
differ. □
We emphasize that the theorem is stated for a particular epoch𝑆. If clients participate in many
epochs, say𝑙, then basic composition yields(2𝑙𝜖, 2𝑙·Δ𝛿) -DP. Tighter accounting via advanced
composition [34] or Rényi DP [56] would improve the𝜖 dependence from𝑙 to𝑂(
√
𝑙) , which is a
direct improvement for clients who participate in many epochs. We leave this analysis to future
work.
2Δ-summation is the counting problem in which each client can send at most Δ queries. We extend it to histograms,
Δ-histograms, or the counting problem adopted by allowing each client to make at max Δ queries per epoch across all
buckets.

20 Asi et al.
6.2 Generating View of the Server
We show how the curator’s output is sufficient to simulate the server’s view generated by distributed
DP algorithm defined in Figure 3 together with an anonymization network (AN). We also require
pseudorandom ciphertexts and evaluation keys, a common assumption for RLWE-based SHE
schemes. This is also why we cannot reuse evaluation keys. This statement is stated in the following
theorem.
Theorem 6.3.Let AN be an anonymous network that 1) removes all identifying information from
messages it receives and 2) randomly permutes all the messages it receives over a second-long slot. Let
each honest client run the distributed mechanism in Figure 3 with messages sent to the server via AN .
Then, the view of the server in an epoch can be simulated using the curator noisy histogram output
described above in the central model.
Proof. We use infinite divisibility of NB distribution to produce a standard cryptography
hybrid argument.
Hybrid 0:Every client is the same as the real client given in Algorithm 3 except it does not
include encrypted embeddings with each request (real or fake). Hybrid 0 is equivalent to the real
client finding the nearest centroid for each real query and a fake random centroid for each fake
query. The client then picks a random slot for each query and send associated queries at each slot.
Hybrid 1:In this hybrid, we replace all the clients with a single simulator. The input of a
simulator is a list 𝑅={𝑅 𝑢}𝑢, where𝑅𝑢 are the real queries for 𝑢-th client. The simulator then
simulates each client𝑢with input𝑅 𝑢 as in Hybrid 0.
As the simulator internally runs each client𝑢 as in Hybrid 0 with input𝑅𝑢, from the adversary’s
point of view, the distribution of requests is the same as Hybrid 0.
Hybrid 2:In this Hybrid, the simulator’s input is the same as in the previous Hybrid 1. The
simulator is defined as follows.
(1) Collects the real queries from all the clients,{𝑅 𝑢}𝑢∈[𝑈] . Call it a list of real queries𝑅.
(2) For each cluster𝑏, samples the number of fake queries𝐹𝑗←NB(𝑟,𝑝) . Add it to the fake
queries list𝐹.
(3) Given the list of real queries 𝑅 and fake queries 𝐹, randomly permutes them: list←
permute(𝑅,𝐹).
(4) Initialize schedule list𝑆 of size𝑧 (where z is the total number of slots in an epoch). For each
query𝑞∈list, pick a random slot𝑝←𝑧and set𝑆[𝑝]=𝑆[𝑝]∪𝑞.
(5) For each slot𝑝∈𝑆send queries in𝑆[𝑝]to the server.
There are two differences between Hybrid 2 and Hybrid 1:
(1) In Hybrid 1, each simulated client samples fake queries for each cluster from a distribution
NB(𝑟/𝑈,𝑝) . While in Hybrid 2 (Line 2) the simulator samples fake queries per cluster from
NB(𝑟,𝑝).
(2) In Hybrid 1, each simulated client generates a schedule for its queries independently, while
in Hybrid 2, the simulator generates a schedule for queries.
To show that Hybrid 2 and 1 are indistinguishable, we use the definition of infinitely divisible
distribution, Definition 2.1.
Note that negative binomial distribution is infinite divisible becauseNB(𝑟,𝑝)= ˝𝑈
𝑖=1NB(𝑟/𝑈,𝑝) .
Thus, the distribution of per cluster fake queries per cluster in Hybrid 2 (Line 2) is the same as
in Hybrid 1. Observe that a random slot is picked for each query independently in both Hybrids.
Therefore, the query schedule generated in both Hybrids is indistinguishable.

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 21
To complete the proof, observe that in Line 3 of Hybrid 2, the simulator generateslist in a manner
similar to the curator in the central model. The key difference is the scheduling: the simulator
assigns each query to a uniformly random slot (Line 4), while the curator sendslistall at once.
We argue that the server’s per-slot view can be simulated from the global histogram. Let
𝐻=(𝐻 1,...,𝐻 𝐾) denote the global histogram of cluster counts in list. In Line 4, each query
is assigned to one of𝑧 slots independently and uniformly at random. Therefore, for each cluster
𝑏, the𝐻𝑏 queries to cluster𝑏 are distributed across slots according to a multinomial distribution
Multinomial(𝐻𝑏; 1/𝑧,..., 1/𝑧). This distribution depends only on 𝐻𝑏 and𝑧, both of which are
determined by the global histogram and public parameters. Within each slot, the AN randomly
permutes all queries. Since the per-slot assignment is a public-randomness function of the global
histogram, and the within-slot ordering is uniformly random, the server’s complete per-slot view
(counts and ordering) can be simulated given only the global histogram𝐻 and public randomness.
No additional per-client signal remains.
□
7 Implementation
We discuss implementation details for Wally’s components.
7.1 Open Source SHE Library
Components of Wally outlined in section 4 are instantiated using the BFV encryption scheme [37].
We have released the SHE components of Wally as Swift Homomorphic Encryption [9], an open-
source library available at https://github.com/apple/swift-homomorphic-encryption. Swift Homo-
morphic Encryption implements the BFV scheme, a secure dot-product for similarity compute, and
keyword PIR for metadata fetch. The library API is simple and flexible, and can be used for other
applications. We also provide an easy-to-follow tutorial and examples to use the API.
We discuss key optimizations and implementation decisions:
• Residue Number System (RNS) variant of BFV. The vanilla BFV scheme requires
manipulating elements modulo the ciphertext modulus 𝑄, which is an integer, possibly
with hundreds of bits. Implementing this scheme requires slow multi-precision modulo
arithmetic. To address this, we instead implemented the RNS variant of BFV [14]. We also
implemented the hybrid RNS variant of key-switching [51] and fast base conversion [13]
methods required for ciphertext-ciphertext multiplication and rotation operations.
• Reducing the computation of BFV operations. The number theoretic transformation
(NTT) speeds up polynomial multiplications required in most BFV operations. We im-
plemented the NTT using Harvey’s butterfly [ 45] and optimized it using lazy modular
reduction. This optimization improves forward and inverse NTT runtime by20-25%. For the
many sequential ciphertext-plaintext multiplications required in similarity computation and
MulPIR, we apply the same lazy reduction strategy to avoid expensive modular operations.
In the second dimension of MulPIR, we perform many ciphertext-ciphertext multiplications.
We compute the tensor product and addition in a large basis, then scale back to modulus
𝑄. When performing BFV multiplications in sequence, we skip the scaling step after each
multiplication and perform it only once at the end [52]. This results in10 -20% improvement
in MulPIR [6] runtime.
• Reducing the response size. To reduce the response ciphertext size, the server uses the
modulus switching technique to mod switch the ciphertext down to a single RNS limb.
Furthermore, as the plaintext is encoded in higher order bits, the server only serializes the
bits needed for decryption. Following the calculation in [ 49], we set𝑧= 8and drop 𝑙0 =

22 Asi et al.
log2(𝑞𝑙/𝑡)− 2from the first ciphertext polynomial and𝑙1≤⌊log 2(𝑞𝑙/𝑡)− 2−log 2(𝑧
√︁
2𝑛/9)⌋
from the second polynomial. This parameter selection gives a decryption error of2−37.5.
• Reducing the request size. As discussed in section 4, evaluation keys dominate the request
size. To minimize key size in similarity compute, the client transmits only two keys: one for
the giant step and another for the baby step (the server repeatedly uses the same keys for
all rotations).
7.2 Embedding and Clustering
We map each document in the server database into dense embeddings that retain semantic informa-
tion. For this, we use the sentence embedding modelmsmarco-distilbert-base-tas-bwith 66 million
parameters, optimized for semantic search [48]. In particular, we use the implementation provided
by the ‘sentence-transformers’ Python library[ 73]. The model outputs dense 768-dimensional
floating point vectors. We then use PCA to reduce the dimensionality of each vector to 192.
The next step is clustering these vectors. To do so, we first find𝐾 cluster centroids by running
k-means clustering. Then we assign each embedding to the cluster with the closest centroid. Finally,
all points and their assigned cluster are compiled into an index.
We implemented this pipeline using the open-source library FAISS [ 31]. FAISS provides fast
algorithms for k-means clustering and indexing. FAISS exposes a flexible clustering API that allows
us to experiment with various clustering parameters, such as the number of data points sampled,
the number of iterations of the basic k-means algorithm. For indexing, we utilize one of the Flat
indexes provided by FAISS to perform fast intra-cluster nearest neighbor search.
7.3 Parameters Selection
SHE parameters.Performance of Wally directly depends on our choice of BFV parameters. We
evaluated multiple parameter sets and selected the one that yielded optimal performance. For
search and metadata fetch, we use: polynomial degree𝑛= 4096, ciphertext modulus of log2𝑄= 83
bits, with CRT limbs of27, 28and28bits. We sample error from a centered binomial distribution
with standard deviation3.2and secret key from a ternary distribution. This achieves 128 bits of
post-quantum security [7].
For search, we set plaintext modulus of log2𝑡= 16bits. Recall that the embedding model outputs
floating-point vectors of dimension 𝑑; however BFV operates over integer vectors. We convert
each float into a fixed-point integer by multiplying it by the appropriate scaling factor 𝑝 and
then rounding to the nearest integer. We select𝑝 to ensure the dot products do not wrap around
modulo𝑡. We say that precision is equal to log2(𝑝) bits. To avoid wrap-around, it is important that
𝑝<
√︁
(𝑡−1)/2−
√
𝑑/2, which implies that log2(𝑝)< 1/2 log2𝑡≈ 7. Therefore, we obtain at least 7
bits of precision. To increase the precision, we use the plaintext CRT decomposition. For this, we
pick two plaintext CRT limbs of plaintext modulus of log2𝑡0 = 16 andlog 2𝑡1 = 17bits. This yields
a total of 31 plaintext bits, i.e., 15 bits of precision, without increasing evaluation key size, since the
BFV evaluation key doesn’t depend on the plaintext modulus𝑡.
As mentioned in subsection 7.1, we reduce the size of the response ciphertext by first mod
switching down to the last CRT limb of 27 bits and then further dropping the least significant bits.
To avoid decryption error due to dropping bits, we set𝑙0 = 9and 𝑙1 = 0. This drops the size of the
single response ciphertext from 55 KB to 23.5 KB. For MulPIR to handle larger noise growth, we use
a plaintext modulus of log2𝑡= 5bits. Having a smaller plaintext modulus allows us to set 𝑙0 = 19
and𝑙 1 =13, reducing each response ciphertext to 12 KB.
Number of users and epochs.Our protocol batches queries from 𝑈 users. A larger𝑈 reduces
the number of fake queries required per user, which in turn improves the performance. We set

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 23
𝑈 to 100K and 500K in our experiments. Another parameter is epoch length. Recall that each
participating client sends queries at random time slots within an epoch, so some clients may wait
until the end of the epoch. Therefore, a long epoch length will negatively affect client experience.
We assume the server provisions 10,000 cores, consistent with large-scale search deployments.
The epoch length is determined by the total number of queries (real and fake) divided by the
server’s aggregate throughput. For our parameter settings, this ranges from tens of seconds to a
few minutes.
Differential privacy parameters.For a fixed failure probability 𝛿, a smaller𝜖 means stronger
privacy but worse performance since each client must now execute more fake queries. We set the
mechanism parameters to𝜖0 = 0.05and 𝛿0 = 2−30. By Theorem 6.1, the per-epoch guarantee is
(2𝜖0,2Δ𝛿 0)=(0.1,2Δ·2 −30)-DP. ForΔ≤5this gives𝛿≤2 −26; forΔ≤10,𝛿≤2 −25.
For each cluster, a client samples fake queries fromNB(𝑟/𝑈,𝑝) . This means in expectation the
number of fake queries is
E[Fake queries per client]= 𝑟𝑝𝐾
(1−𝑝)𝑈 = 3(1+log 2(1/2−30))𝑒−0.0005/Δ𝐾
(1−𝑒−0.0005/Δ)𝑈
Recall𝐾 is the total number of clusters,𝑈 is the number of participating honest clients, and Δ is
the number of clusters each client probes. A straightforward calculation shows that the expected
number of fake queries per client is at most0 .006Δ𝐾 for𝑈= 500,000, a modest estimate for
large-scale applications [76]. For example, with𝐾= 256clusters and Δ= 1, each client generates
fewer than2fake queries on average. Table 3 reports exact values for varying configurations.
Search parameters and metric.
The product of clusters 𝐾 and the number of clusters probed Δ determine the performance
and accuracy of Wally. A smaller𝐾 and a smaller Δ both enhance performance by reducing the
overhead of fake queries. Further notice that very small𝐾 will result in large response size. Similarly,
reducing Δ may lead to a substantial drop in accuracy due to the increased probability of missing
the true nearest neighbor.
Our objective is to minimize the fake queries overhead, which is proportional to the product𝐾Δ,
while balancing search quality and response size. We experimented with different parameters and
selected those that provide the best accuracy while keeping𝐾 moderately small and minimizing Δ
as much as possible. For each probe, the client generates a new query with a large evaluation key.
Consequently, a largeΔwill result in large total request size.
Dataset.We use the MS MARCO document ranking dataset [ 12]. The dataset contains approxi-
mately 3.2 million passages, where each passage comprises a document identifier, document URL,
document title, and document body. The embedding is generated from the document title and body.
Table 2. Comparison of Wally Tiptoe and Pacmann for MS MARCO [ 12] database. Communication and
QPS for Wally includes overhead due to fake queries. Worst value in each metric is marked in red. For Wally
calculation we assume𝑈= 500, 000. Epoch size ranges from 20 seconds to two minutes for varying values of
Δ.
Client Storage (MB) Communication (MB) Queries Per Second (QPS) MRR@100
Tiptoe [46] 0.61 17.4 909 0.11
Pacmann [87] 614 61.6 34,482 0.26
Wally (𝐾=256,Δ=1) 0.04 0.56 25,974 0.12
Wally (𝐾=256,Δ=3) 0.04 1.7 9,881 0.16
Wally (𝐾=256,Δ=5) 0.04 2.6 6,667 0.18

24 Asi et al.
8 Evaluation
We demonstrate Wally’s concrete performance and compare it with baselines. We ran server-side
computations on a 6-core Intel Xeon w3-2423 with 32GB of RAM.
We measure performance via the following metrics. All metrics account for the overhead of fake
queries: we amortize the expected number of fake queries over each real query. For example, if a
client makes 1 real query and 2 fake queries, all three contribute to the reported communication
and server computation per query.
• Queries per second (QPS): We measure latency for a single query on a single core and
compute QPS as 10,000 divided by that latency, assuming a server with 10,000 cores. This
extrapolation is valid because each query is processed independently with no inter-query
synchronization. Since QPS scales linearly with core count for all schemes, relative compar-
isons are independent of this choice. Any shared-resource effects such as memory bandwidth
contention apply equally across schemes.
• Bandwidth: We calculate the size of the client query and the server response for each query.
• Accuracy: To evaluate the accuracy of our search results, we used the Mean Reciprocal Rank
(MRR@100) metric, a standard measure for assessing the quality of search results. Given a
query𝑞 and a ground truth index𝑖 such that𝐷𝐵[𝑖] is the most relevant entry, we merge all
scores (along with entry indices) obtained from probing Δ clusters, sort them, and retain
the first 100 scores. If the list contains𝑖 at the𝑗-th rank (where𝑗≤ 100), the reciprocal rank
score is calculated as1/𝑗. In the absence of𝑖in the list, MRR@100 is set to 0.
Baselines.We compared Wally with the following baselines. Both baselines offer full oblivious-
ness but have high performance overhead:
Tiptoe (simulated)[ 46], which is a state-of-the-art private search system based on linear
homomorphic encryption from the learning with errors problem [ 72]. Similar to Wally, Tiptoe
uses a clustering approach to find the nearest candidate. However for each query it only probes a
single cluster. Running the complete Tiptoe system requires substantial infrastructure. We simulate
Tiptoe using favorable estimates that give it an advantage in our comparison.
• Latency: We estimate the minimum time the server will take to process a single query. We
exclude network cost and the per-query offline phase, both of which further favor Tiptoe.
For each query, the computation is dominated by dot-products between vectors. To privately
fetch and rank candidates from a particular cluster, the server performs 𝑁 dot-products
between vectors of dimension𝑑 (ranking). We assume that each component of a vector is
32 bits.
• Accuracy: We divide the database into
√
𝑁 clusters, probe the nearest cluster and calculate
MRR@100 of these candidates.
• Communication: We calculate the minimum number of 32-bit elements the client and server
have to transfer per query. To generate a token, the client sends at least𝑛= 2048RLWE
ciphertexts or𝑛2 elements. For ranking, the client sends a query consisting of𝑑
√
𝑁 elements.
For tokens, the server response consists of16RLWE ciphertexts (each at least 2048 elements)
and for ranking the response consists of
√
𝑁elements.
Pacmann[ 87], which is concurrent work. Like Wally, this scheme employs sublinear server
computation, but it offers full obliviousness. Pacmann’s approach differs from Wally in two key
aspects. First, to locate the nearest neighbor, Pacmann utilizes a graph-based search algorithm.
Second, Pacmann employs sublinear Offline/Online PIR to retrieve graph nodes and traverse the
graph. For each query, the scheme requires multiple round trips and per-query maintenance. We

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 25
Table 3. Performance of Wally across varying database sizes. Each client will probe a single cluster Δ= 1.
Each setting provides(𝜖=0.1,𝛿=2 −26)-DP guarantee.
Entries in database N 1 Million 16 Million 100 Million
Number of users𝑈100,000 500,000 100,000 500,000 100,000 500,000
Number of clusters (𝐾) 128 256 256 512 512 1,024
Expected fake queries 1.7 0.3 3.3 1.7 6.7 2.6
Request size (MB) 0.76 0.36 1.18 0.76 2.17 1.01
Response size (MB) 0.17 0.04 2.3 1.5 13.9 3.03
Queries per second (in thousand) 22 66 1.4 3.2 0.47 1.39
Epoch size 10 sec 10 sec 2 min 3 min 4 min 6 min
Table 4. Performance of Wally for different values of 𝐾 with𝑈= 100,000, Δ= 3, and one million database
entries. Epoch sizes range from 10 to 20 seconds. Each setting provides(𝜖=0.1,𝛿=2 −26)-DP guarantee.
Number of clusters (𝐾) 64 128 256 512
Request size (MB) 0.45 0.45 0.9 1.35
Response size (MB) 0.10 0.10 0.2 0.3
QPS (in thousand) 31 31 22 15
Table 5. Performance of Wally for different values of Δ with𝑈= 100,000,𝐾= 128, and one million database
entries. Epoch sizes range from a few seconds to about a minute. Each setting provides(𝜖= 0.1,𝛿≤ 2−25)-DP
guarantee.
Clusters probed (Δ) 1 3 5 10
Request size (MB) 0.36 0.45 0.59 0.65
Response size (MB) 0.08 0.10 0.11 0.14
QPS (in thousand) 37 31 27 21
compare our results with the ones provided in the Pacmann paper [87], which is sufficient since
we conducted our own experiments in a comparable environment.
Metadata Fetch.To fetch metadata, Tiptoe relies on an offline/online PIR scheme called Sim-
plePIR (referred to as the URL step in their paper). We run the SimplePIR open-source implementa-
tion to estimate performance for this step. Pacmann has not implemented metadata fetch step. The
comparison for metadata fetch is given in section 8.
Comparison with Tiptoe.The results are presented in Table 2. Wally significantly outperforms
Tiptoe across all metrics. Notably, Wally’s QPS is7 -29× higher. This is because in Tiptoe, the
server must perform at least one expensive operation per entry in the database. Similarly, the
communication per query is6.7-31× smaller than Tiptoe’s, for varying numbers of clusters probed.
Tiptoe can only probe a single cluster per query, and to probe more clusters, a new query must
be initiated. For Δ= 1, a single probe case, Wally’s MRR@100 score is only slightly better than
Tiptoe’s score of 0.11. However, as we increase to Δ= 5, Wally’s MRR@100 score improves to 0.18,
which is considerably better than Tiptoe’s score.
Comparison with Pacmann.Table 2 shows that Pacmann has higher QPS and MRR@100
than Wally. Specifically, the higher QPS is because Pacmann is based on offline/online sublinear
PIR and their higher MRR@100 is due to the use of a graph-based search data structure, which
is superior to the clustering technique. However, this scheme requires large client storage and
communication per query. Specifically, for a database with 3.2 million entries, the client must store a
hint of 614 MB and per-query communication is 61.6 MB, which is prohibitively high, especially for

26 Asi et al.
cellular networks. Another downside is that hint-based protocols cannot directly handle database
updates. Finally, to gain better MRR@100 the scheme requires multiple round trips, which add to
the network delay. We did not consider network delay in Pacmann’s QPS calculation. Specifically,
due to its use of offline/online PIR, QPS is1.3-5.6× higher than Wally but communication is23-123×
higher, depending onΔ.
Benchmarking Wally.In Table 3, we evaluate the performance of Wally across various database
sizes ranging from one million entries to one hundred million entries and cluster counts ranging
from 128 to 1,024. For all these experiments, we assume that the client probes the nearest cluster
Δ= 1. We consider𝑈= 100,000and 𝑈= 500,000honest users, with epoch sizes ranging from 10
seconds to 6 minutes.
First, we notice that increasing the number of honest users 𝑈 leads to improved overall per-
formance across all database sizes. Specifically, the QPS increases by2 -3×, while the request and
response sizes improve by1.5-2.4×. This demonstrates that Wally is an ideal choice for applications
with moderate to extended delays.
Second, we observe that the expected number of fake queries is nearly proportional to the
product of the number of honest users (𝑈 ) and inverse of the number of clusters (𝐾). For each
database, as𝑈 increases from 100,000 to 500,000, we increase the number of users by5× (which
reduces fake queries) but also increase the number of clusters by2× (which increases fake queries).
Consequently, we see that fake queries decrease by a factor of almost5/2 = 2.5, indicating a linear
dependency. Alternatively, we can consider that reducing the number of clusters 𝐾 for a fixed
database will lead to a decrease in fake queries.
Third, we note that as the database size varies, the request and response sizes linearly increase.
However, the QPS decreases. This is because for larger databases, each cluster size becomes
substantial, resulting in increased server operations per query. Table 4 shows the effect of varying
𝐾 with Δ= 3for a one-million-entry database. For small 𝐾 (64 and 128), the overhead of fake
queries is negligible and performance remains constant. As 𝐾 grows, communication and QPS
degrade gradually. For instance, quadrupling𝐾 from 128 to 512 increases request size by3× and
reduces QPS by2×. Even at𝐾= 512, the system still achieves 15,000 QPS with 1.35 MB request
size, demonstrating that Wally scales gracefully with the number of clusters.
Table 5 shows the effect of varying Δ with𝐾= 128. Increasing Δ from 1 to 10 increases request
size by only1 .8× and decreases QPS by1 .8×, a sub-linear cost relative to the10 × increase in
probes. Meanwhile, accuracy improves significantly. From Table 2, MRR@100 increases from 0.12
(Δ= 1) to 0.18 ( Δ= 5), closing the gap with Pacmann’s MRR@100 of 0.26, which requires 614
MB of client storage and 61.6 MB of communication per query. This demonstrates a practical
throughput-accuracy tradeoff that system designers can tune based on application requirements.
Table 6. Comparison of Wally and SimplePIR for fetching metadata of size 1KB from a database with 3.2
million entries divided into𝐾= 256clusters. Communication and QPS for Wally include overhead due to
fake queries.
Communication (MB) Queries Per Second (QPS)
SimplePIR [46] 40.1 85,327
Wally (Δ=1) 1.8 35,211
Metadata retrieval performance.Recall that when metadata size is large, clients participate in
an additional epoch with Δ= 1. That is, the client will only access the cluster in which the most
relevant entry falls. They will still have to make additional fake queries and follow a random
schedule. Within each query cluster (real or fake), the server performs keyword PIR computation

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 27
using SHE. In Tiptoe, the server has to perform SimplePIR computation over the entire database to
fetch metadata. Table 6 shows the comparison of Wally and SimplePIR for metadata fetch for a
database with 3.2 million entries, where each metadata is 1KB. Note that while SimplePIR has a
2.4× higher QPS, its communication overhead is 22× higher than Wally. We emphasize that for
SimplePIR, we excluded the offline hint download cost.
9 Related Work
Homomorphic encryption.HE alone is a popular technique used in private search systems [ 1, 19,
35, 46]. These systems achieve full obliviousness but require encrypted computation over the entire
database, resulting in high bandwidth and server cost that scales linearly with database size. In
contrast, Wally computes on only a few clusters per query, achieving sublinear server cost with
DP to hide the requested cluster index from the server. section 1 provides an in-depth comparison
with Tiptoe [46]. A related system is [63] which sends embellished text queries in the clear but
uses additively HE [17] to compute an encrypted similarity score.
Two-server and MPC-based systems.Two-server protocols such as Preco [ 77] achieve full cryp-
tographic obliviousness via distributed point functions and probabilistic batch codes, but require
10 MB of communication and 10 seconds of latency for a database with 10M entries, with linearly-
sized computation per server. SANNS [ 25] uses garbled circuits and HE but sends GBs of data
per query for databases of 1M entries or more. Both systems require two non-colluding servers
that jointly perform the computation. Wally replaces this with a single computation server and a
lightweight anonymization network, which is easier to deploy since widely trusted anonymiza-
tion services already exist. The tradeoff is that Wally provides differential privacy rather than
exact obliviousness; in return, Wally achieves7 -29× higher QPS and orders-of-magnitude lower
communication than these systems.
Concurrent works.Pacmann [ 87] efficiently reduces graph-based private nearest neighbors search
to many PIR queries on a graph. They use offline-online PIR and each PIR computation is sublinear
by way of a sublinear PIR [86]. Pacmann is a cryptographic, fully-oblivious private search system and
offers good accuracy via graph-based nearest neighbors search, which results in higher MRR@100
than clustering-based approaches. However, Pacmann’s graph traversal requires many sequential
round trips, each involving a PIR query, which adds significant network latency. Additionally,
Pacmann requires 614 MB of client storage and 61.6 MB of communication per query, which is
prohibitively high for mobile clients and cellular networks. Clients must also stream the entire
database offline and the hints must be refreshed on database updates. In contrast, Wally requires
only 0.04 MB of client storage,0.56-2.6MB of communication, and no offline phase.
Panther [53] uses a clustering-based approach similar to SANNS but replaces expensive DORAM
with batch PIR based on SealPIR [8], and combines secret sharing, garbled circuits, and HE. Panther
is a cryptographic, fully-oblivious single-server private search system that also provides server
database privacy, ensuring the client learns only the final top-𝑘 results. However, Panther is an
interactive protocol requiring multiple rounds of secret sharing and garbled circuit evaluation,
and its latency degrades significantly under WAN conditions (e.g.,9 -18seconds for 1M–10M
entries). Additionally, Panther requires 93–284 MB of communication per query for 1M–10M entries.
In contrast, Wally is non-interactive and achieves orders-of-magnitude lower communication
(0.56-2.6MB) with thousands of QPS.
Hint-based and recent single-server PIR.Recent single-server PIR schemes achieve high throughput
through preprocessing. SimplePIR [47] and Piano [86] require clients to download large offline hints
(121 MB to 724 MB for 1–32 GB databases in SimplePIR) that must be refreshed when the database

28 Asi et al.
changes. YPIR [55] eliminates the offline hint download but has large query upload sizes (846 KB to
2.5 MB for 1–32 GB databases) that grow with the database size. In Wally, metadata PIR operates
within a single cluster of size𝑁′≪𝑁 , so MulPIR’s linear-in-𝑁′ computation is already efficient
without requiring any offline phase, client-side storage, or large uploads. For these reasons, Wally
uses MulPIR for metadata retrieval, though it is compatible with any single-server PIR scheme.
DP and the shuffle model.Wally’s DP construction is closely related to the shuffle model of
differential privacy [27, 36], where clients send messages through a shuffler that permutes them
before the server observes them. The encode-shuffle-analyze paradigm, exemplified by Prochlo [18],
follows this pattern for analytics tasks. Wally instantiates a similar structure for private search:
clients send real and fake queries through an anonymization network that acts as the shuffler.
However, in Wally clients locally add noise (fake queries) rather than relying on the shuffler to
inject noise. A key difference from typical shuffle-DP systems is that a dedicated shuffler aggregates
all messages before forwarding, adding latency equal to the entire collection period. Wally instead
relies on existing lightweight anonymization services that forward messages continuously within
one-second batches, allowing the server to process queries as they arrive rather than waiting for
the full epoch.
DP information-theoretic PIR schemes [5, 78] achieve similar privacy goals but rely on multiple
non-colluding servers. PIR in the shuffle model [38, 50] is closer to Wally in that it requires one
PIR server, replacing DP with statistical indistinguishability. However, [50] is a theoretical work,
while [38] relies on non-standard cryptographic assumptions and requires many sub-queries per
query, incurring a large response size.
Further related works are discussed in subsection 9.1.
9.1 Further Details
Early private search systems.Early private search systems heuristically add fake queries or alter
queries client-side [11, 16, 30, 61, 63, 68, 71, 79, 84]. They are broken by a semi-honest server, i.e., the
server can de-anonymize queries [4, 40, 65, 66] since queries are sent in the clear. or they have strict
distribution requirements on queries, e.g., i.i.d. queries [71]. In contrast, Wally has a differential
privacy guarantee: the server’s view between histograms over clusters with and without a client’s
queries is differentially private. Also, client queries in Wally are encrypted preventing the attack
in [78].
Anonymization networks.Anonymization networks and mix-nets [ 23, 29] anonymize the client
but send the query in the clear. Only applying ANs to search systems reveals clients’ information
to a semi-honest server [68].
Trusted hardware.Trusted hardware is another tool used in private search systems [ 54, 57, 69].
However, these search systems are only as strong as their underlying hardware [21, 24, 26, 43, 59].
10 Conclusion
Wally is the first protocol to demonstrate batch private nearest-neighbor search at large scale. By
combining somewhat homomorphic encryption with differential privacy, it protects client queries
and releases only a differentially private histogram of aggregate traffic. Wally achieves over 25K
QPS with low communication overhead and accuracy on par with state-of-the-art systems.
References
[1] Ishtiyaque Ahmad, Laboni Sarker, Divyakant Agrawal, Amr El Abbadi, and Trinabh Gupta. 2021. Coeus: A System for
Oblivious Document Ranking and Retrieval. InSOSP. ACM, 672–690.

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 29
[2] Rishabh Ahuja, Arun Solanki, and Anand Nayyar. 2019. Movie recommender system using k-means clustering and
k-nearest neighbor. In2019 9th International Conference on Cloud Computing, Data Science & Engineering (Confluence).
IEEE, 263–268.
[3] Rami Al-Rfou, William Jannen, and Nikhil Patwardhan. 2012. Trackmenot-so-good-after-all.arXiv preprint
arXiv:1211.0320(2012).
[4] Rami Al-Rfou’, William Jannen, and Nikhil Patwardhan. 2012. TrackMeNot-so-good-after-all.CoRRabs/1211.0320
(2012).
[5] Kinan Dak Albab, Rawane Issa, Mayank Varia, and Kalman Graffi. 2022. Batched Differentially Private Information
Retrieval. InUSENIX Security Symposium. USENIX Association, 3327–3344.
[6] Asra Ali, Tancrède Lepoint, Sarvar Patel, Mariana Raykova, Phillipp Schoppmann, Karn Seth, and Kevin Yeo. 2021.
Communication-Computation Trade-offs in PIR. InUSENIX Security Symposium. USENIX Association, 1811–1828.
[7] Erdem Alkim, Léo Ducas, Thomas Pöppelmann, and Peter Schwabe. 2016. Post-quantum Key Exchange - A New Hope.
InUSENIX Security Symposium. USENIX Association, 327–343.
[8] Sebastian Angel, Hao Chen, Kim Laine, and Srinath T. V. Setty. 2018. PIR with Compressed Queries and Amortized
Query Processing. InIEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. IEEE Computer Society, 962–979.
[9] Apple Inc. and Swift Homomorphic Encryption project authors. [n. d.]. Swift Homomorphic Encryption. https:
//github.com/apple/swift-homomorphic-encryption
[10] Avi Arampatzis, George Drosatos, and Pavlos S Efraimidis. 2015. Versatile query scrambling for private web search.
Information Retrieval Journal18 (2015), 331–358.
[11] Avi Arampatzis, George Drosatos, and Pavlos S. Efraimidis. 2015. Versatile Query Scrambling for Private Web Search.
Inf. Retr. J.18, 4 (2015), 331–358.
[12] Payal Bajaj, Daniel Campos, Nick Craswell, Li Deng, Jianfeng Gao, Xiaodong Liu, Rangan Majumder, Andrew McNa-
mara, Bhaskar Mitra, Tri Nguyen, et al. 2016. Ms marco: A human generated machine reading comprehension dataset.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.09268(2016).
[13] Jean-Claude Bajard, Julien Eynard, M. Anwar Hasan, and Vincent Zucca. 2016. A Full RNS Variant of FV Like Somewhat
Homomorphic Encryption Schemes. InSAC (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 10532). Springer, 423–442.
[14] Jean-Claude Bajard, Julien Eynard, M Anwar Hasan, and Vincent Zucca. 2016. A full RNS variant of FV like somewhat
homomorphic encryption schemes. InInternational Conference on Selected Areas in Cryptography. Springer, 423–442.
[15] Ero Balsa, Carmela Troncoso, and Claudia Diaz. 2012. OB-PWS: Obfuscation-based private web search. In2012 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy. IEEE, 491–505.
[16] Ero Balsa, Carmela Troncoso, and Claudia Díaz. 2012. OB-PWS: Obfuscation-Based Private Web Search. InIEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy. IEEE Computer Society, 491–505.
[17] Josh Benaloh. 1994. Dense probabilistic encryption. InProceedings of the workshop on selected areas of cryptography.
120–128.
[18] Andrea Bittau, Úlfar Erlingsson, Petros Maniatis, Ilya Mironov, Ananth Raghunathan, David Lie, Mitch Rudominer,
Ushasree Kode, Julien Tinnés, and Bernhard Seefeld. 2017. Prochlo: Strong Privacy for Analytics in the Crowd. In
SOSP. ACM, 441–459.
[19] Vishnu Naresh Boddeti. 2018. Secure Face Matching Using Fully Homomorphic Encryption. InBTAS. IEEE, 1–10.
[20] Zvika Brakerski, Craig Gentry, and Vinod Vaikuntanathan. 2014. (Leveled) Fully Homomorphic Encryption without
Bootstrapping.ACM Trans. Comput. Theory6, 3 (2014), 13:1–13:36.
[21] Jo Van Bulck, Marina Minkin, Ofir Weisse, Daniel Genkin, Baris Kasikci, Frank Piessens, Mark Silberstein, Thomas F.
Wenisch, Yuval Yarom, and Raoul Strackx. 2018. Foreshadow: Extracting the Keys to the Intel SGX Kingdom with
Transient Out-of-Order Execution. InUSENIX Security Symposium. USENIX Association, 991–1008.
[22] Fabio Carrara, Lucia Vadicamo, Claudio Gennaro, and Giuseppe Amato. 2022. Approximate nearest neighbor search
on standard search engines. InInternational Conference on Similarity Search and Applications. Springer, 214–221.
[23] David Chaum. 1981. Untraceable Electronic Mail, Return Addresses, and Digital Pseudonyms.Commun. ACM24, 2
(1981), 84–88.
[24] Guoxing Chen, Sanchuan Chen, Yuan Xiao, Yinqian Zhang, Zhiqiang Lin, and Ten-Hwang Lai. 2020. SgxPectre:
Stealing Intel Secrets From SGX Enclaves via Speculative Execution.IEEE Secur. Priv.18, 3 (2020), 28–37.
[25] Hao Chen, Ilaria Chillotti, Yihe Dong, Oxana Poburinnaya, Ilya P. Razenshteyn, and M. Sadegh Riazi. 2020. SANNS:
Scaling Up Secure Approximate k-Nearest Neighbors Search. InUSENIX Security Symposium. USENIX Association,
2111–2128.
[26] Zitai Chen, Georgios Vasilakis, Kit Murdock, Edward Dean, David F. Oswald, and Flavio D. Garcia. 2021. VoltPillager:
Hardware-based fault injection attacks against Intel SGX Enclaves using the SVID voltage scaling interface. InUSENIX
Security Symposium. USENIX Association, 699–716.
[27] Albert Cheu, Adam D. Smith, Jonathan R. Ullman, David Zeber, and Maxim Zhilyaev. 2019. Distributed Differential
Privacy via Shuffling. InEUROCRYPT (1) (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 11476). Springer, 375–403.

30 Asi et al.
[28] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional
Transformers for Language Understanding. InNAACL-HLT (1). Association for Computational Linguistics, 4171–4186.
[29] Roger Dingledine, Nick Mathewson, and Paul F. Syverson. 2004. Tor: The Second-Generation Onion Router. InUSENIX
Security Symposium. USENIX, 303–320.
[30] Josep Domingo-Ferrer, Agusti Solanas, and Jordi Castellà-Roca. 2009. h(k)-private information retrieval from
privacy-uncooperative queryable databases. ">h(k)-private information retrieval from privacy-uncooperative queryable
databases.Online Inf. Rev.33, 4 (2009), 720–744.
[31] Matthijs Douze, Alexandr Guzhva, Chengqi Deng, Jeff Johnson, Gergely Szilvasy, Pierre-Emmanuel Mazaré, Maria
Lomeli, Lucas Hosseini, and Hervé Jégou. 2025. The Faiss library. arXiv:2401.08281 [cs.LG] https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.
08281
[32] Cynthia Dwork, Krishnaram Kenthapadi, Frank McSherry, Ilya Mironov, and Moni Naor. 2006. Our Data, Ourselves:
Privacy Via Distributed Noise Generation. InEUROCRYPT (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 4004). Springer,
486–503.
[33] Cynthia Dwork, Frank McSherry, Kobbi Nissim, and Adam D. Smith. 2006. Calibrating Noise to Sensitivity in Private
Data Analysis. InTCC (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 3876). Springer, 265–284.
[34] Cynthia Dwork, Guy N. Rothblum, and Salil P. Vadhan. 2010. Boosting and Differential Privacy. InFOCS. IEEE, 51–60.
[35] Joshua J. Engelsma, Anil K. Jain, and Vishnu Naresh Boddeti. 2022. HERS: Homomorphically Encrypted Representation
Search.IEEE Trans. Biom. Behav. Identity Sci.4, 3 (2022), 349–360.
[36] Úlfar Erlingsson, Vitaly Feldman, Ilya Mironov, Ananth Raghunathan, Shuang Song, Kunal Talwar, and Abhradeep
Thakurta. 2020. Encode, Shuffle, Analyze Privacy Revisited: Formalizations and Empirical Evaluation.CoRR
abs/2001.03618 (2020).
[37] Junfeng Fan and Frederik Vercauteren. 2012. Somewhat Practical Fully Homomorphic Encryption.IACR Cryptol.
ePrint Arch.(2012), 144.
[38] Adrià Gascón, Yuval Ishai, Mahimna Kelkar, Baiyu Li, Yiping Ma, and Mariana Raykova. 2024. Computationally Secure
Aggregation and Private Information Retrieval in the Shuffle Model. InCCS. ACM, 4122–4136.
[39] Arthur Gervais, Reza Shokri, Adish Singla, Srdjan Capkun, and Vincent Lenders. 2014. Quantifying web-search privacy.
InProceedings of the 2014 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security. 966–977.
[40] Arthur Gervais, Reza Shokri, Adish Singla, Srdjan Capkun, and Vincent Lenders. 2014. Quantifying Web-Search
Privacy. InCCS. ACM, 966–977.
[41] Badih Ghazi, Ravi Kumar, Pasin Manurangsi, and Rasmus Pagh. 2020. Private Counting from Anonymous Messages:
Near-Optimal Accuracy with Vanishing Communication Overhead. InICML (Proceedings of Machine Learning Research,
Vol. 119). PMLR, 3505–3514.
[42] David M. Goldschlag, Michael G. Reed, and Paul F. Syverson. 1999. Onion Routing.Commun. ACM42, 2 (1999), 39–41.
[43] Daniel Gruss, Moritz Lipp, Michael Schwarz, Daniel Genkin, Jonas Juffinger, Sioli O’Connell, Wolfgang Schoechl, and
Yuval Yarom. 2018. Another Flip in the Wall of Rowhammer Defenses. InIEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy.
IEEE Computer Society, 245–261.
[44] Shai Halevi and Victor Shoup. 2018. Faster Homomorphic Linear Transformations in HElib. InCRYPTO (1) (Lecture
Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 10991). Springer, 93–120.
[45] David Harvey. 2014. Faster arithmetic for number-theoretic transforms.Journal of Symbolic Computation60 (2014),
113–119.
[46] Alexandra Henzinger, Emma Dauterman, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, and Nickolai Zeldovich. 2023. Private Web Search
with Tiptoe. InSOSP. ACM, 396–416.
[47] Alexandra Henzinger, Matthew M. Hong, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Sarah Meiklejohn, and Vinod Vaikuntanathan. 2023.
One Server for the Price of Two: Simple and Fast Single-Server Private Information Retrieval. InUSENIX Security
Symposium. USENIX Association, 3889–3905.
[48] Sebastian Hofstätter, Sheng-Chieh Lin, Jheng-Hong Yang, Jimmy Lin, and Allan Hanbury. 2021. Ef-
ficiently Teaching an Effective Dense Retriever with Balanced Topic Aware Sampling. InProc. of SI-
GIR. https://huggingface.co/sebastian-hofstaetter/distilbert-dot-tas_b-b256-msmarco,https://huggingface.co/
sentence-transformers/msmarco-distilbert-base-tas-b
[49] Zhicong Huang, Wen-jie Lu, Cheng Hong, and Jiansheng Ding. 2022. Cheetah: Lean and Fast Secure Two-Party Deep
Neural Network Inference. InUSENIX Security Symposium. USENIX Association, 809–826.
[50] Yuval Ishai, Mahimna Kelkar, Daniel Lee, and Yiping Ma. 2024. Information-Theoretic Single-Server PIR in the Shuffle
Model. InITC (LIPIcs, Vol. 304). Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum für Informatik, 6:1–6:23.
[51] Andrey Kim, Yuriy Polyakov, and Vincent Zucca. 2021. Revisiting homomorphic encryption schemes for finite fields.
InAdvances in Cryptology–ASIACRYPT 2021: 27th International Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology
and Information Security, Singapore, December 6–10, 2021, Proceedings, Part III 27. Springer, 608–639.

Wally: Batched Private Nearest Neighbor Search at Scale 31
[52] Andrey Kim, Yuriy Polyakov, and Vincent Zucca. 2021. Revisiting Homomorphic Encryption Schemes for Finite Fields.
InASIACRYPT (3) (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 13092). Springer, 608–639.
[53] Jingyu Li, Zhicong Huang, Min Zhang, Cheng Hong, Jian Liu, Tao Wei, and Wenguang Chen. 2025. Panther: Private
Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search in the Single Server Setting. InCCS. ACM, 1–15.
[54] Mingyu Li, Jinhao Zhu, Tianxu Zhang, Cheng Tan, Yubin Xia, Sebastian Angel, and Haibo Chen. 2021. Bringing
Decentralized Search to Decentralized Services. InOSDI. USENIX Association, 331–347.
[55] Samir Jordan Menon and David J. Wu. 2024. YPIR: High-Throughput Single-Server PIR with Silent Preprocessing. In
USENIX Security Symposium. USENIX Association.
[56] Ilya Mironov. 2017. Rényi Differential Privacy. InCSF. IEEE, 263–275.
[57] Sonia Ben Mokhtar, Antoine Boutet, Pascal Felber, Marcelo Pasin, Rafael Pires, and Valerio Schiavoni. 2017. X-search:
revisiting private web search using intel SGX. InMiddleware. ACM, 198–208.
[58] John X. Morris, Volodymyr Kuleshov, Vitaly Shmatikov, and Alexander M. Rush. 2023. Text Embeddings Reveal
(Almost) As Much As Text. InEMNLP. Association for Computational Linguistics, 12448–12460.
[59] Kit Murdock, David F. Oswald, Flavio D. Garcia, Jo Van Bulck, Frank Piessens, and Daniel Gruss. 2020. Plundervolt:
How a Little Bit of Undervolting Can Create a Lot of Trouble.IEEE Secur. Priv.18, 5 (2020), 28–37.
[60] Mummoorthy Murugesan and Chris Clifton. 2009. Providing privacy through plausibly deniable search. InProceedings
of the 2009 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining. SIAM, 768–779.
[61] Mummoorthy Murugesan and Chris Clifton. 2009. Providing Privacy through Plausibly Deniable Search. InSDM.
SIAM, 768–779.
[62] Helen Nissenbaum and Howe Daniel. 2009. TrackMeNot: Resisting surveillance in web search. (2009).
[63] HweeHwa Pang, Xuhua Ding, and Xiaokui Xiao. 2010. Embellishing Text Search Queries To Protect User Privacy.
Proc. VLDB Endow.3, 1 (2010), 598–607.
[64] Sai Teja Peddinti and Nitesh Saxena. 2010. On the privacy of web search based on query obfuscation: A case study of
trackmenot. InPrivacy Enhancing Technologies: 10th International Symposium, PETS 2010, Berlin, Germany, July 21-23,
2010. Proceedings 10. Springer, 19–37.
[65] Sai Teja Peddinti and Nitesh Saxena. 2014. Web search query privacy: Evaluating query obfuscation and anonymizing
networks.J. Comput. Secur.22, 1 (2014), 155–199.
[66] Albin Petit, Thomas Cerqueus, Antoine Boutet, Sonia Ben Mokhtar, David Coquil, Lionel Brunie, and Harald Kosch.
2016. SimAttack: private web search under fire.J. Internet Serv. Appl.7, 1 (2016), 2:1–2:17.
[67] Albin Petit, Thomas Cerqueus, Sonia Ben Mokhtar, Lionel Brunie, and Harald Kosch. 2015. PEAS: Private, efficient
and accurate web search. In2015 IEEE Trustcom/BigDataSE/ISPA, Vol. 1. IEEE, 571–580.
[68] Albin Petit, Thomas Cerqueus, Sonia Ben Mokhtar, Lionel Brunie, and Harald Kosch. 2015. PEAS: Private, Efficient
and Accurate Web Search. InTrustCom/BigDataSE/ISPA (1). IEEE, 571–580.
[69] Rafael Pires, David Goltzsche, Sonia Ben Mokhtar, Sara Bouchenak, Antoine Boutet, Pascal Felber, Rüdiger Kapitza,
Marcelo Pasin, and Valerio Schiavoni. 2018. CYCLOSA: Decentralizing Private Web Search through SGX-Based
Browser Extensions. InICDCS. IEEE Computer Society, 467–477.
[70] David Rebollo-Monedero and Jordi Forné. 2010. Optimized query forgery for private information retrieval.IEEE
Transactions on Information Theory56, 9 (2010), 4631–4642.
[71] David Rebollo-Monedero and Jordi Forné. 2010. Optimized query forgery for private information retrieval.IEEE Trans.
Inf. Theory56, 9 (2010), 4631–4642.
[72] Oded Regev. 2009. On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryptography.J. ACM56, 6 (2009),
34:1–34:40.
[73] Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-Networks. In
Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Association for Computational
Linguistics. https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.10084,https://www.sbert.net
[74] Tolga Şakar and Hakan Emekci. 2025. Maximizing RAG efficiency: A comparative analysis of RAG methods.Natural
Language Processing31, 1 (2025), 1–25.
[75] Kunal Sawarkar, Abhilasha Mangal, and Shivam Raj Solanki. 2024. Blended rag: Improving rag (retriever-augmented
generation) accuracy with semantic search and hybrid query-based retrievers. In2024 IEEE 7th international conference
on multimedia information processing and retrieval (MIPR). IEEE, 155–161.
[76] Semrush. 2025. Google Search Statistics. https://www.semrush.com/blog/google-search-statistics/ Accessed: 2025-02-
17.
[77] Sacha Servan-Schreiber, Simon Langowski, and Srinivas Devadas. 2022. Private Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search
with Sublinear Communication. InSP. IEEE, 911–929.
[78] Raphael R. Toledo, George Danezis, and Ian Goldberg. 2016. Lower-Cost∈-Private Information Retrieval.Proc. Priv.
Enhancing Technol.2016, 4 (2016), 184–201.

32 Asi et al.
[79] Vincent Toubiana, Lakshminarayanan Subramanian, and Helen Nissenbaum. 2011. TrackMeNot: Enhancing the
privacy of Web Search.CoRRabs/1109.4677 (2011).
[80] Salil Vadhan. 2017. The complexity of differential privacy.Tutorials on the Foundations of Cryptography: Dedicated to
Oded Goldreich(2017), 347–450.
[81] Zekun Xu, Abhinav Aggarwal, Oluwaseyi Feyisetan, and Nathanael Teissier. 2021. On a utilitarian approach to privacy
preserving text generation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.11838(2021).
[82] Peilin Yang, Hui Fang, and Jimmy Lin. 2017. Anserini: Enabling the use of lucene for information retrieval research.
InProceedings of the 40th international ACM SIGIR conference on research and development in information retrieval.
1253–1256.
[83] Shaozhi Ye, Felix Wu, Raju Pandey, and Hao Chen. 2009. Noise injection for search privacy protection. In2009
International Conference on Computational Science and Engineering, Vol. 3. IEEE, 1–8.
[84] Shaozhi Ye, Shyhtsun Felix Wu, Raju Pandey, and Hao Chen. 2009. Noise Injection for Search Privacy Protection. In
CSE (3). IEEE Computer Society, 1–8.
[85] Minjia Zhang and Yuxiong He. 2019. Grip: Multi-store capacity-optimized high-performance nearest neighbor search
for vector search engine. InProceedings of the 28th ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge
Management. 1673–1682.
[86] Mingxun Zhou, Andrew Park, Wenting Zheng, and Elaine Shi. 2024. Piano: Extremely Simple, Single-Server PIR with
Sublinear Server Computation. InSP. IEEE, 4296–4314.
[87] Mingxun Zhou, Elaine Shi, and Giulia Fanti. 2024. Pacmann: Efficient Private Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search.
IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch.(2024), 1600.