On the Feasibility of Unstructured Peer-to-Peer
Information Retrieval
H. Asthana, Ruoxun Fu and Ingemar J. Cox
h.asthana,r.fu,ingemar@cs.ucl.ac.uk
Department of Computer Science, University College London, Gower St., London
WC1E 6BT, UK
Abstract. We consider the feasibility of web-scale search in an unstruc-
tured peer-to-peer network. Since the network is unstructured, any such
search is probabilistic in nature. We therefore adopt a probably approx-
imately correct (PAC) search framework. The accuracy of such a search
is deﬁned by the overlap between the set of documents retrieved by a
PAC search and the set of documents retrieved by an exhaustive (deter-
ministic) search of the network. For an accuracy of 90%, we theoretically
determine the number of nodes each query must be sent to for three dis-
tributions of documents in the network, namely uniform, proportional
and square root. We assume that the query distribution follows a power
law and investigate how performance is aﬀected by the scale factor. For
various conﬁgurations, we estimate the global and local network traﬃc
induced by the search. For a network of 1 million nodes, a query rate of
1000 queries per second, and assuming each node is capable of indexing
0.1% of the collection, our analysis indicates that the network traﬃc is
less that 0.07% of global internet traﬃc.
1 Introduction
P2P networks can be generally categorized into two classes, namely structured
and unstructured networks. Structured networks, typically based on distributed
hash tables (DHTs), bind data to designated locations within the network. The
advantage of a structured architecture is that the query latency, proportional
to the number of nodes a query must visit, is O(log n) where n is the number
of nodes in the network. However, multi-term queries can consume considerable
bandwidth as nodes need to exchange information regarding the sets of docu-
ments containing each term [1]. Additional bandwidth is needed to maintain the
binding, and can grow very quickly in the face of dynamic membership (churn),
which can in turn saturate the network. Further concerns have been raised in [2].
In particular, distributed hash tables are particularly susceptible to adversarial
attack [3].
Unstructured networks exhibit no such binding between data and nodes. As
such, they are much less aﬀected by churn, and are generally more resistant
to adversarial attack. However, since a particular document being sought by
a user can be anywhere in the network, the only way to guarantee searching
the entire collection is to exhaustively query all nodes in the network. This is, of
course, impractical. To be practical, any search must only query a relatively small
subset of nodes in the network. Thus, search in an unstructured P2P network is
necessarily probabilistic.
One of the earliest attempts to estimate the feasibility of web search in peer-
to-peer networks was undertaken by Li et al. [1] which examined the practicality
of web search based on a structured P2P network indexing 3 billion documents
Published in the proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on the
Theory of Information Retrieval (ICTIR), 2011

and concluded that the bandwidth required was still an order of magnitude
greater than was practical at the time. Even after applying various optimization
techniques, the estimated query size (i.e. the total traﬃc generated in issuing and
answering a query) was still found to be 6 MB per query. Whilst this (relatively
high) communication cost would now be feasible, as we discuss later, the analysis
in [1] does not account for expected churn rates in observed peer-to-peer systems
which can signiﬁcantly increase the required bandwidth in structured networks
for keeping the DHT up-to-date. Zhong et al. [4] investigated the eﬀectiveness
of various indexing strategies in structured peer-to-peer networks using 3.7 mil-
lion queries. However, the authors did not investigate unstructured peer-to-peer
networks and did not address the concerns, previously mentioned, regarding
structured peer-to-peer networks. Yang et al. [5] compared the performance of
keyword search in structured, super-peer, and unstructured peer-to-peer network
by downloading the documents from 1,000 web sites and allocating each peer to
“host” one web site. The conclusion of the study is that the performance of the
three network types is similar. However, since the documents are only present at
one node, there is no replication of documents - a key concept which we explore
in the next section.
To our knowledge, there have been no studies into whether it is possible
to perform web search in unstructured peer-to-peer networks which takes into
account document replication with high probabilities of ﬁnding the relevant doc-
ument(s).
The main contributions of this paper are
 a theoretical analysis that predicts the number of nodes that must be queried
in order to guarantee an expected accuracy of 90% for three diﬀerent docu-
ment replication policies
 estimation of the corresponding communication bandwidth required, con-
cluding that probabilistic search in an unstructured peer-to-peer network
where nodes issue queries in volume comparable to commercial search en-
gines will consume no more than 0.07% of the global internet traﬃc.
In this paper, the feasibility of web scale search in unstructured peer-to-
peer networks is based on communication cost. However, we acknowledge that
other factors are also of concern, e.g. latency and security. Latency is directly
proportional to the number of nodes queried. Although it is part of our future
research, we do not address latency in this paper, and refer the reader to [6, 7],
which discusses the optimal network topology to reduce latency. The security of
an unstructured peer-to-peer network is outside the scope of the paper. However,
initial investigations, not reported here, suggest that security is better than that
for structured architectures based on distributed hash tables.
In Section 2 we review prior work on probabilistic search in an unstructured
P2P network. In Section 3 we extend the probably approximately correct search
architecture, which is a recently proposed unstructured P2P search framework,
to incorporate non-uniform replication strategies. In Section 4 we calculate the
communication cost of web search in unstructured P2P networks based on the
theoretical results of Sections 2 and 3. We conclude in Section 5.
2 Probabilistic Search
Probabilistic storage and search in an unstructured P2P network can be modeled
as follows. Given a set of n nodes in the network, we assume that the object of
interest is stored on a random subset of r nodes. A query is issued to a random
subset of z nodes. We are interested in the probability that the two subsets have
Published in the proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on the
Theory of Information Retrieval (ICTIR), 2011

a non-empty intersection, as this implies a successful search for that object.
This theoretical foundation is directly adopted in prior work which focuses on
retrieval of ﬁles stored in the network based on queries that contain terms that
only appear in the ﬁle names. Information retrieval is broader than this, as the
index, and associated queries, contain terms present not just in the ﬁle name, but
also terms present within the ﬁle (document) itself. As such, matching of queries
to documents is more ambiguous, and it is therefore necessary to provide a set of
documents, usually ranked by relevance. Nevertheless, this model is appropriate
for the class of information retrieval problems referred to as known-item search.
And, the probabilistic model can be extended to encompass other information
retrieval requirements, as discussed in Section 2.3.
2.1 F erreira et al’s Model
Early work on probabilistic search in unstructured P2P networks has its origins
in the study of probabilistic quorum systems [8] to improve the availability and
eﬃciency of replicated systems. Ferreira et al. [9] proposed the use the proba-
bilistic quorum model to describe search in an unstructured P2P network. Given
n nodes in the network, an object is replicated pn times onto a random subset
of nodes. A query is also sent to a random subset of pn nodes. It can then be
shown that the probability of ﬁnding the desired object of the query is at least
1   e−2
. Clearly as  increases, the object is replicated over more nodes and
the probability of ﬁnding the object therefore increases.
2.2 Cohen and Shenkers’ Model
The previous analysis assumed that an object/document is uniformly randomly
replicated across nodes in the network. Other replication strategies are also pos-
sible. Cohen and Shenker [10] provided both a theoretical and empirical analysis
of such. Here it is assumed that the n nodes in the P2P network each have ca-
pacity , i.e.  is the number of ﬁles each node can store. Let R = n denote
the total capacity of the system. It is further assumed that there are m unique
ﬁles stored in the P2P system and that each ﬁle i is replicated on ri random
nodes. Obviously, ∑
i ri = R, and mr = R if ri  r is a constant. Let pi = ri
R be
the fraction of the total system capacity allocated to ﬁle i. Finally, let qi be the
normalized query popularity for the ith ﬁle. Thus
m∑
i=1
qi = 1
The search size, z i, of ﬁle i, is deﬁned as the number of nodes searched in
response to a query qi to ﬁnd ﬁle i. Of course, the search size will depend very
much on the search strategy used. In [10] a random probing model is assumed,
i.e. each of many probes randomly selects a node in the network. Thus, each
probe has a probability ri
n of ﬁnding the requested ﬁle i, and a probability 1   ri
n
of not ﬁnding the ﬁle. The search size z i is simply a random variable drawn from
a geometric distribution
P (zi) = (1   ri
n )zi−1 ri
n
The average search size for ﬁle i is
z(i) = n
ri
and the expected search size, z, of all m ﬁles is
z =
∑
i
qi  z(i) = n
∑
i
qi
ri
= n
∑
i
qi
Rpi
= n
R
∑
i
qi
pi
(1)
Published in the proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on the
Theory of Information Retrieval (ICTIR), 2011

For a uniform replication strategy, ri  r is a constant and mr = R. Thus,
the expected search size with uniform replication, u
z , is
u
z = n
∑
i
qi
r = n
r
∑
i
qi = m
 (2)
Two alternatives to a uniform replication strategy are also considered. A
proportional replication strategy replicates content based on its popularity, i.e.
proportional to the number of queries requesting it. Perhaps surprisingly, such
a replication strategy results in the same expected search size as the uniform
replication. For proportional replication strategy, ri = Rqi and the expected
search size p
z is
p
z = n
∑
i
qi
Rqi
= nm
R = m

In eﬀect, while popular documents will be found by querying fewer nodes than
for a uniform replication strategy, this is balanced by the need to visit far more
nodes in order to ﬁnd unpopular documents.
To minimize the expected search size, we would like to minimize ∑
i
qi
pi
in
Equation (1). Solving this optimization problem [10], we have pi
pm
= ri
rm
=
√qi√qm
.
Thus, ri = pqi = R∑
i
√qi
pqi. This is the square root replication strategy which
produces the optimal expected search size given by
s
z = n
∑
i
qi
pqi
= 1
 (
∑
i
pqi)2 (3)
Typically, the query distribution follows a power law [11], i.e. qi = 1
c i−
where c is the normalization constant. In this case, Equation (3) becomes
s
z = 1
c (
∑
i
1
i=2 )2 (4)
Analysis of publicly available logs from AOL, as well as logs of a commercial
search engine made available to us, indicate that the value of  ranges from 0.8
to 1.0.
2.3 Probably Approximately Correct Search
The previous work on randomized search looked at the expected search length
necessary to ﬁnd a speciﬁc document. Assuming a query is sent to a constant
number of nodes, z, we can also ask what the probability of ﬁnding a document
is. This, and related questions, are addressed in recent papers on probably ap-
proximately correct (PAC) search [12, 13]. The PAC architecture considers both
an acquisition and a search stage. In this paper we only consider the search
stage.
During the search stage, a query is sent to z machines, and the results re-
turned by the diﬀerent machines are consolidated and then displayed to the
user. If we are searching for a single, speciﬁc document di, then the probability
of retrieving this document is given by
P (di) = 1   (1   
m )z (5)
In information retrieval, it is more common to be interested in the top- k retrieved
documents. In this case, the correctness of a PAC search is measured by retrieval
Published in the proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on the
Theory of Information Retrieval (ICTIR), 2011

accuracy. If D denotes the set of top- k documents retrieved when searching the
full index, i.e. an exhaustive search, and D′ the set of top- k documents retrieved
when querying z nodes, then the retrieval accuracy, a, is deﬁned as
a = jD \ D ′j
jDj = k′
k
where k ′ denotes the size of the overlap of the two sets, i.e. jD \ D ′j.
The size of the overlap in the result sets, k ′ is a random variable drawn from
a binomial distribution, and is given by
P (k ′) = ( k
k′ )P (di)k′
(1   P (di))k−k′
(6)
Since Equation (6) is a binomial distribution, the expected value of k′ is E(k′) =
kP (di) and the expected retrieval accuracy e is
e = k′
k = k  P (di)
k = 1  
(
1   
m
)z
; (7)
If we assume that a document is, on average, replicated r times onto diﬀerent
nodes in the network, then the total storage of the network, R, satisﬁes R = mr.
And the Equation (7) can be transformed into
e = 1  
(
1   
m
)z
= 1  
(
1   r
n
)z
(8)
3 Non-uniform replication in PAC
The original work on PAC, described above, assumed a uniform replication strat-
egy for documents. Here, we extend the probabilistic analysis to the cases where
the documents are replicated (i) in proportion to their popularity, and (ii) in
proportion to the square root of their popularity, as discussed in [10].
In general, given a query distribution, we are interested in what replication
strategy can yield the highest expected retrieval accuracy for all queries. Let Q
denote the set of all queries, and let qj denote the query rate for query j, such
that ∑ qj = 1. The replication rate for document i is ri. From Equations (5)
and (8), we can get the probability of retrieving document i as
P (di) = 1  
(
1   ri
n
)z
(9)
Let Dk(j) denote the set of top- k documents retrieved for a query qj. Thus,
the expected retrieval accuracy for the top- k documents, Ak, averaged over all
queries is given by
Ak =
∑
qj
∑
di∈Dk(j)(1   (1   ri
n )z)
k (10)
Now consider the case where we are only interested in the top document, i.e.
top-1 ( k = 1), as in [10]. Thus, from Equation (10) we have
A1 =
∑
qj(1   (1   rj
n )z) (11)
For a proportional replication strategy, where rj = Rqj, the expected accu-
racy Ap
1 is then given by
Ap
1 =
∑
qj(1   (1   qj)z) (12)
Published in the proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on the
Theory of Information Retrieval (ICTIR), 2011

0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1.4 1.6
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
α
Expected Accuracy
 
 
Uniform Replication
Proportional Replication
Square Root Replication
Fig. 1: Expected accuracy for retrieving the top-1 document, A1, as a function of
the power law exponent, , for diﬀerent replication strategies, when the number
of nodes queried, z = 1000.
and for square root replication strategy, where rj = R
√qj∑ √qj
, the expected accu-
racy As
1 is given by
As
1 =
∑
qj(1   (1   
pqj∑ pqj
)z) (13)
To examine the eﬀect of the diﬀerent replication strategies, we considered a
PAC conﬁguration in which it is assumed that there are 1 million documents in
the collection ( m = 10 6), and 10,000 nodes in the network ( n = 10 4). Each node
is able to index 1000 documents (  = 1000).
Figure 1 shows the expected accuracy, A1, when retrieving the top-1 docu-
ment as a function of the power law exponent for diﬀerent replication strategies.
Here, we have assumed that the query distribution follows a power law, and
have ﬁxed the search size to 1000 nodes, ( z = 1000). The square root replication
strategy performs better than the proportional replication strategy, and grows
more rapidly as  increases.
Figures 2a and 2b show the expected accuracy, A1, when retrieving the top-1
document, as a function of the search size, z, for diﬀerent replication strategies,
and for  = 0:8 and  = 1 respectively. We observe that square root replication is
inferior to proportional replication, when the search size is small. Note however,
that as the search size increases, proportional replication improves more slowly,
and square root replication performs better.
We can extend our analysis to the case where we are interested in the top-
k retrieved documents, rather than only the top-1. Theoretically, an inﬁnite
number of queries can be issued by users, and many queries can retrieve the same
documents. However, to simply our analysis of expected accuracy we assume a
ﬁnite number of queries, jQj, which is certainly true for a ﬁnite period of time.
The top-k documents retrieved by each query, Dk(j), are likely to be non-disjoint,
i.e. two queries might retrieve some documents in common. Thus, replication
should be based on the distribution of retrieval frequency of the documents,
rather than the query distribution directly.
Published in the proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on the
Theory of Information Retrieval (ICTIR), 2011

0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
z
The Expected Accuracy
 
 
Uniform Replication
Proportional Replication
Square Root Replication
(a)  = 0:8
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
z
The Expected Accuracy
 
 
Uniform Replication
Proportional Replication
Square Root Replication (b)  = 1:0
Fig. 2: Expected accuracy for retrieving the top-1 document, A1, as a function
of the search size, z, for diﬀerent replication strategies
To solve top-k retrieval problem, let us deﬁne a document retrieval frequency
set Q′ which holds the distribution of retrieval frequency of the documents in
the collection. Thus, for each q′
i 2 Q ′, we have
q′
i =
|Q|∑
j=1
qj(j; i)
where
(j; i) =
{ 1 if document i is in query j’s top- k result list.
0 otherwise.
We can then transform Equation (10) to
Ak =
∑
q′
i(1   (1   ri
n )z) (14)
where the replication rate for document i, ri, is computed based on the corre-
sponding q′
i. Since the expected accuracy is essentially a weighted mean, we can
exploit the overlap of retrieved documents of queries and are able to simplify
the top- k retrieval into an equation which is akin to the top-1 retrieval.
4 Communication Cost
In this Section we consider the communication cost associated with P2P search.
We assume a probabilistic search architecture based on the PAC model. We
make the following assumptions with regard to the system:
 a network size of n = 1; 000; 000 nodes.
Several P2P services already exceed this number, e.g. Gnutella and BitTor-
rent, and the commercial P2P information retrieval system Faroo 1 currently
claims 1 million users.
 a query rate of 1,000 queries a second.
The estimated query rate of Google is 38,000 queries per second. 2 However,
Google’s query rate is based on a user community of about 150M unique
users.3 A query rate of 38,000 queries per second is equivalent to each of
1 http://www.faroo.com/hp/p2p/p2p.html
2 http://searchengineland.com/by-the-numbers-twitter-vs-facebook-vs-googlebuzz-
36709
3 http://siteanalytics.compete.com/google.com+facebook.com+yahoo.com/
Published in the proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on the
Theory of Information Retrieval (ICTIR), 2011

1 million nodes issuing over 2 queries a minute! A rate of 1000 queries per
second corresponds to each node issuing almost 4 queries an hour, 24 hours
per day, which would seem like an upper bound on any realistic query rate.
 a collection size of 10 billion documents to be indexed.
Currently, it is estimated that Google indexes approximately 20 billion doc-
uments, while Bing and Yahoo index approximately 12 billion documents. 4
 a required expected retrieval accuracy of 90%.
If we are only interested in a single document, then the accuracy is given by
Equation (9). Thus, we must choose a combination of the number of nodes
the query is sent to, z, and the local storage capacity, . Let  = 
m , denote
the fraction of the global collection indexed at a node.
 a minimum storage of 5 GB, available at each node and a maximum of 10
GB.
This allows a node to index  = 1
1000 of the global document collection as
discussed shortly.
For uniform replication, Figure 3a illustrates the expected accuracy as a
function of the number of nodes queried when each node randomly samples
 = 1
1000 of the global document collection. For 90% accuracy we need to query
approximately 2,300 nodes. Figure 3b shows the number of nodes that need to
be queried to obtain 90% accuracy as function of .
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
µa
z
(a) Expected accuracy as a function of
the number of nodes queried when
 = 0:001
0 0.005 0.01 0.015 0.02
10
2
10
3
10
4
κ
z
(b) The number of nodes queried for 90%
accuracy as a function of . Note that this
is a log-linear plot.
Fig. 3: Relationship between number of nodes queried ( z), the fraction of the
global collection indexed at a node ( ), and the expected accuracy ( e) for
uniform replication
In order to estimate the communications load we further assume:
 an average of 2 bytes per character.
This is based on UTF-8 encoding, where each character takes between 1 - 4
bytes depending on the language used. 5
 a query message size of 300 bytes.
Analysis of query logs [11] has shown that the average query size is 2.5 terms
or 30 characters. This corresponds to about 60 bytes per query message.
4 http://www.worldwidewebsize.com
5 http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3629
Published in the proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on the
Theory of Information Retrieval (ICTIR), 2011

However, we must also assume some overhead associated with the underlying
TCP/IPv6 protocol. We therefore conservatively assume a query message
size of 300 bytes. Therefore if this message must be sent to z = 1; 000 peers,
the communication cost associated with sending a query is 300 KB.
Finally, in order to estimate the communication bandwidth needed to respond
to a query, we assume the following:
 we are only interested in the top-10 documents.
Analysis of commercial search engine query logs show that users rarely look
beyond the top-10 documents. Thus, when a user issues a query, each node
only needs to return its top-10 URLs. If, however, the user requests to see
results 11-20, we could ask the same nodes to return their top 11-20, which
would again be merged and re-ranked at the node originating the query.
 a query response size of 1KB.
We estimate that each result (result name, hyper-link, snippet, minimal sur-
rounding XML etc) requires no more than 400 characters or 800 bytes. Since
the query result is entirely alphanumeric, it can usually be compressed to
10% of its original size. This is common practice with modern web servers. 6
Thus the total bandwidth required to answer a query is simply 800 bytes
per result, multiplied by 10 results per query, times 0.1 compression factor,
i.e. 800 bytes. We round this to 1 KB to account for TCP/IPv6 overheads.
4.1 Communications load for uniform replication
Based on the previous assumptions, we ﬁrst consider the uniform replication
strategy. From Equation (8), the expected accuracy of 90% can be obtained by
sending the query to 2,300 nodes, assuming each node indexes 0.1% of the global
collection.
We are now in a position to calculate the total communication load of such a
system. For broadcasting the query and receiving the response from 2,300 peers,
the total cost per query is approximately 3 MB. For 1,000 queries per second,
the total traﬃc generated is 3 GB/s.
Note that this traﬃc is spread throughout the internet. The total internet
traﬃc in 2009 was approximately 4,630 GB/s [14, 15] and is forecast to grow by
50% each year, primarily due to video traﬃc. Using the 2009 ﬁgures, the traﬃc
generated by a PAC web IR service would only constitute 0.065% of the global
internet traﬃc. Thus, web search using an unstructured P2P network will not
impose a signiﬁcant global communication cost.
As well as the global communication cost, it is useful to consider the require-
ments placed on each node, both in terms of storage and bandwidth.
We now estimate the resource requirements on each peer participating in
the search. We have assumed that each node randomly samples 1/1000 of the 10
billion documents which need to indexed. This implies that each peer must index
10 million documents, which must ﬁrst be crawled. The Akamai internet report 7
states that the global average internet connection speed is approximately 200
KB/s. In the developed nations it is considerably higher, but we do not account
for this here. If we assume that 25% of this bandwidth can be utilized (say,
during the peer’s idle time), it will take approximately 58 days to complete the
crawl, assuming that the average size of a document on the Web is 25KB 8.
6 http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/mod/mod deﬂate.html
7 ”Akamai report: The state of the internet, 3rd quarter, 2010”,
http://www.akamai.com/stateoftheinternet/
8 http://www.optimizationweek.com/reviews/average-web-page/
Published in the proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on the
Theory of Information Retrieval (ICTIR), 2011

The crawled documents, representing 250GB of data, can be indexed using
approximately 10 GB of disk space which would record term frequencies and
positions as well as other statistical measures. This is typical of popular infor-
mation retrieval packages such as Lucene 9. We are aware that some machines
may not have 10GB of disk storage available for this service. However, lossless
compression [16] can reduce the size of the index by utilizing eﬃcient data struc-
tures, and lossy index compression techniques [17] have been shown to reduce
the size of the index by 50 to 70% with minimal loss in precision.
Using eﬃcient Trie structures, only small percentages of the index need to
be read and loaded into memory, and the system can answer queries using no
more than 500 MB of the peer’s memory, as has been demonstrated by systems
such as Lucene.
For a PAC web IR system of 1 million nodes answering 1,000 queries per
second, each peer on average would have to answer 2.3 queries per second. The
corresponding bandwidth needed is 0.69 KB/s in the download direction and 2.3
KB/s in the upload.
To summarize, each peer would need to contribute 5-10 GB of disk space,
500 MB of memory, and approximately 0.69 KB/s download as well as 2.3 KB/s
upload from the peer’s bandwidth for query answering as well as 50KB/s during
idle time for crawling. Both the local communication, and disk and memory
requirements appear reasonable.
Table 1: The number of nodes queried and the corresponding communication
cost, for uniform, proportional and square root replication strategies, for  = 0:8
and 1 to obtain an expected accuracy of 90%.
 = 0:8  = 1:0
Nodes Queried Cost/Query Nodes Queried Cost/Query
(MB) (MB)
Uniform Replication 2300 3.000 2300 3.000
Proportional Replication 2750 3.575 1180 1.534
Square Root Replication 1650 1.534 780 1.014
4.2 Communication load for non-uniform replications
As mentioned previously, the value of  ranges from 0.8 to 1.0. We can use
Equations (12) and (13) to calculate the communication costs for an expected
accuracy of 90% for non-uniform replications. The results are summarized in
Table 1. We observe that for both values of , the square root replication strategy
needs to query fewer nodes than for the uniform distribution. For  = 0 :8 this
reduces the communication bandwidth by about 50%, while for  = 1, the
bandwidth is reduced by about two thirds. It is interesting to note that for
 = 0:8, proportional replication performs worse than a uniform replication.
For a system servicing 1,000 queries per second, the communication costs
correspond to between 0.03% and 0.07% of the global internet traﬃc.
9 http://lucene.apache.org/
Published in the proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on the
Theory of Information Retrieval (ICTIR), 2011

5 Conclusion
This paper investigated the feasibility, with respect to communication band-
width, of performing web-scale search on an unstructured, distributed peer-to-
peer network. The unstructured nature of the network necessitates that the
search is probabilistic in nature. While this has been previously recognized,
prior work has not considered the accuracy of the search, nor the probability
of attaining said accuracy.
Communication cost is often cited as the limiting factor in the deployment
and scalability of P2P search. For a uniform replication policy, that ignores
the query distribution and the popularity of documents, it was shown that the
communication load produced by the P2P system was only 0.07% of global
internet traﬃc, in order to guarantee an expected accuracy of 90%. In addition,
the local communication load placed on each peer is approximately 2.3KB/s
in the upload direction and 0.69KB/s for download. Thus, the communication
overhead is well below any level that would preclude P2P search.
The communication cost can be reduced by replicating documents based on
their popularity. Two popular replication policies are proportional and square
root, and we extended the theoretical analysis of expected accuracy for PAC
search to these two non-uniform replication policies. For  = 0 :8, the propor-
tional policy is actually worse than uniform, but is better than uniform when
 = 1. The square root policy is superior to uniform for both values of .
However, we note that the square root policy is not optimum for maximizing
accuracy. An optimum replication policy is left for future work.
In Section 4.1 we found that a node would take approximately 58 days to
complete each iteration of a web crawl. This could degrade the freshness of results
and decrease the relevance of documents. A solution to this issue, could be the
use of cloud computing resources such as Amazon EC2. These servers, ﬁnanced
perhaps with small individual donations made to a non-proﬁt organization, can
be scaled up or down based on available funding, and can be used to continuously
crawl and index the web. The nodes in the P2P network could then refresh their
index in fragments continuously using BitTorrent from these cloud computing
based index servers. Apart from drastically reducing the number of days required
for a crawl, this would have an added advantage of reducing the peer’s workload
of crawling and indexing.
Of course, communication cost is not the only factor that might prevent
wide scale P2P web search. Latency, i.e. the time to respond to a query, is also a
factor. Latency is usually considered to be proportional to the number of nodes
queried. However, we note that for an unstructured P2P search architecture, we
do not have to wait for all peers to respond before displaying a partial result
list. The heterogeneity of peers in any P2P network makes this an inevitability.
The analysis, modelling, and minimization of latency in web search within an
unstructured P2P architecture is part of our future research.
Acknowledgment
We are thankful for the comments and suggestions provided by the referees,
which has considerably helped in improving this paper. Ruoxun Fu gratefully
acknowledges the support of BT.
References
1. J. Li, B. T. Loo, J. Hellerstein, F. Kaashoek, D. R. Karger, and R. Morris, “On
the Feasibility of Peer-to-Peer Web Indexing and Search,” in Proceedings of the
2nd International Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems (IPTPS ’03) , 2003.
Published in the proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on the
Theory of Information Retrieval (ICTIR), 2011

2. Y. Chawathe, S. Ratnasamy, L. Breslau, N. Lanham, and S. Shenker, “Making
gnutella-like p2p systems scalable,” in Proceedings of the 2003 conference on Ap-
plications, technologies, architectures, and protocols for computer communications .
ACM, 2003, pp. 407–418.
3. E. Sit and R. Morris, “Security considerations for peer-to-peer distributed hash
tables,” Peer-to-Peer Systems, pp. 261–269, 2002.
4. M. Zhong, J. Moore, K. Shen, and A. L. Murphy, “An evaluation and compari-
son of current peer-to-peer full-text keyword search techniques,” in Proc. of the
International Workshop on the Web Databases (WEBDB) , 2005.
5. Y. Yang, R. Dunlap, M. Rexroad, and B. F. Cooper, “Performance of Full Text
Search in Structured and Unstructured Peer-to-Peer Systems,” in Proceedings
of the 25th IEEE Internation Conference on Computer Communications, 2006,
Barcelona, Spain. IEEE, 2006.
6. B. F. Cooper, “An optimal overlay topology for routing peer-to-peer searches,” in
Proceedings of the 6th International ACM/IFIP/USENIX Middleware Conference,
2005, Grenoble, France , 2005.
7. W. W. Terpstra, J. Kangasharju, C. Leng, and A. P. Buchmann, “Bubblestorm:
resilient, probabilistic, and exhaustive peer-to-peer search,” in SIGCOMM, 2007,
pp. 49–60.
8. D. Malkhi, M. Reiter, and R. Wright, “Probabilistic quorum systems,” in Proceed-
ings of the sixteenth annual ACM symposium on Principles of distributed comput-
ing. ACM, 1997, p. 273.
9. R. Ferreira, M. Ramanathan, A. Awan, A. Grama, and S. Jagannathan, “Search
with probabilistic guarantees in unstructured peer-to-peer networks,” 2005.
10. E. Cohen and S. Shenker, “Replication strategies in unstructured peer-to-peer
networks,” in Proceedings of the 2002 conference on Applications, technologies,
architectures, and protocols for computer communications . ACM, 2002, pp. 177–
190.
11. R. Baeza-Yates, A. Gionis, F. Junqueira, V. Murdock, and F. Silvestri, “The impact
of caching on search engines,” in Proceedings of the 30th annual international ACM
SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval, July 23-
27, 2007, Amsterdam, The Netherlands . ACM, 2007.
12. I. J. Cox, R. Fu, and L. K. Hansen, “Probably approximately correct search,” in
Proc. of the International Conference on Theoretical Information Retrieval (IC-
TIR), 2009.
13. I. J. Cox, J. Zhu, R. Fu, and L. K. Hansen, “Improving query correctness using
centralized probably approximately correct (pac) search,” in ECIR, 2010, pp. 265–
280.
14. C. Labovitz, S. Iekel-Johnson, D. McPherson, J. Oberheide, and F. Jahanian, “In-
ternet inter-domain traﬃc,” in Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM 2010 confer-
ence on SIGCOMM, August 30-September 03, 2010, New Delhi, India . ACM,
2010.
15. “http://dtc.umn.edu/mints/.”
16. I. J. Witten, A. Moﬀat, and T. C. Bell, Managing Gigabvtes: Compressing and
Indexing Documents and Images , 2nd ed. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann
Publishers Inc., 1999.
17. E. S. de Moura, C. F. dos Santos, D. R. Fernandes, A. S. Silva, P. Calado, and
M. A. Nascimento, “Improving Web search eﬃciency via a locality based static
pruning method,” in Proceedings of the 14th international conference on World
Wide Web, May 10-14, 2005, Chiba, Japan , 2005.
Published in the proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on the
Theory of Information Retrieval (ICTIR), 2011