Provable Data Possession at Untrusted Stores ∗
Giuseppe Ateniese † Randal Burns † Reza Curtmola †
Joseph Herring † Lea Kissner ‡ Zachary Peterson † Dawn Song §
Abstract
We introduce a model for provable data possession (PDP) that allows a client that has stored
data at an untrusted server to verify that the server possess es the original data without retrieving
it. The model generates probabilistic proofs of possession by sampling random sets of blocks
from the server, which drastically reduces I/O costs. The cl ient maintains a constant amount
of metadata to verify the proof. The challenge/response pro tocol transmits a small, constant
amount of data, which minimizes network communication. Thu s, the PDP model for remote
data checking supports large data sets in widely-distribut ed storage systems.
We present two provably-secure PDP schemes that are more eﬃc ient than previous solutions,
even when compared with schemes that achieve weaker guarant ees. In particular, the overhead
at the server is low (or even constant), as opposed to linear i n the size of the data. Experiments
using our implementation verify the practicality of PDP and reveal that the performance of
PDP is bounded by disk I/O and not by cryptographic computati on.
1 Introduction
Verifying the authenticity of data has emerged as a critical issue in storing data on untrusted
servers. It arises in peer-to-peer storage systems [29, 35] , network ﬁle systems [30, 26], long-term
archives [32], web-service object stores [48], and databas e systems [31]. Such systems prevent
storage servers from misrepresenting or modifying data by p roviding authenticity checks when
accessing data.
However, archival storage requires guarantees about the au thenticity of data on storage, namely
that storage servers possess data. It is insuﬃcient to detec t that data have been modiﬁed or deleted
when accessing the data, because it may be too late to recover lost or damaged data. Archival
storage servers retain tremendous amounts of data, little o f which are accessed. They also hold
data for long periods of time during which there may be exposu re to data loss from administration
errors as the physical implementation of storage evolves, e.g., backup and restore, data migration
to new systems, and changing memberships in peer-to-peer sy stems.
Archival network storage presents unique performance dema nds. Given that ﬁle data are large
and are stored at remote sites, accessing an entire ﬁle is exp ensive in I/O costs to the storage
server and in transmitting the ﬁle across a network. Reading an entire archive, even periodically,
∗This is the full version of the paper that appears in Proceedi ngs of the 14th ACM Conference on Computer and
Communications Security(CCS 2007) [3].
†Department of Computer Science, Johns Hopkins University – {ateniese, randal, crix }@cs.jhu.edu,
jrh@jhu.edu, zachary@cs.jhu.edu
‡Google, Inc. – leak@cs.cmu.edu
§University of California Berkeley/Carnegie Mellon Univer sity – dawnsong@cs.berkeley.edu

greatly limits the scalability of network stores. (The grow th in storage capacity has far outstripped
the growth in storage access times and bandwidth [44]). Furt hermore, I/O incurred to establish
data possession interferes with on-demand bandwidth to sto re and retrieve data. We conclude that
clients need to be able to verify that a server has retained ﬁl e data without retrieving the data from
the server and without having the server access the entire ﬁle .
Previous solutions do not meet these requirements for provi ng data possession. Some schemes
[20] provide a weaker guarantee by enforcing storage complexity: The server has to store an amount
of data at least as large as the client’s data, but not necessa rily the same exact data. Moreover, all
previous techniques require the server to access the entire ﬁle, which is not feasible when dealing
with large amounts of data.
We deﬁne a model for provable data possession (PDP) that prov ides probabilistic proof that a
third party stores a ﬁle. The model is unique in that it allows the server to access small portions of
the ﬁle in generating the proof; all other techniques must ac cess the entire ﬁle. Within this model,
we give the ﬁrst provably-secure scheme for remote data chec king. The client stores a small O(1)
amount of metadata to verify the server’s proof. Also, the sc heme uses O(1) bandwidth 1. The
challenge and the response are each slightly more than 1 Kilo bit. We also present a more eﬃcient
version of this scheme that proves data possession using a si ngle modular exponentiation at the
server, even though it provides a weaker guarantee.
Both schemes use homomorphic veriﬁable tags . Because of the homomorphic property, tags
computed for multiple ﬁle blocks can be combined into a singl e value. The client pre-computes
tags for each block of a ﬁle and then stores the ﬁle and its tags with a server. At a later time,
the client can verify that the server possesses the ﬁle by gen erating a random challenge against a
randomly selected set of ﬁle blocks. Using the queried block s and their corresponding tags, the
server generates a proof of possession. The client is thus co nvinced of data possession, without
actually having to retrieve ﬁle blocks.
The eﬃcient PDP scheme is the fundamental construct underly ing an archival introspection
system that we are developing for the long-term preservatio n of Astronomy data. We are taking
possession of multi-terabyte Astronomy databases at a Univ ersity library in order to preserve the
information long after the research projects and instrumen ts used to collect the data are gone. The
database will be replicated at multiple sites. Sites includ e resource-sharing partners that exchange
storage capacity to achieve reliability and scale. As such, the system is subject to freeloading in
which partners attempt to use storage resources and contrib ute none of their own [20]. The location
and physical implementation of these replicas are managed i ndependently by each partner and will
evolve over time. Partners may even outsource storage to thi rd-party storage server providers [23].
Eﬃcient PDP schemes will ensure that the computational requ irements of remote data checking
do not unduly burden the remote storage sites.
We implemented our more eﬃcient scheme ( E-PDP) and two other remote data checking proto-
cols and evaluated their performance. Experiments show tha t probabilistic possession guarantees
make it practical to verify possession of large data sets. Wi th sampling, E-PDP veriﬁes a 64MB
ﬁle in about 0.4 seconds as compared to 1.8 seconds without sa mpling. Further, I/O bounds the
performance of E-PDP; it generates proofs as quickly as the disk produces data. Fi nally, E-PDP is
185 times faster than the previous secure protocol on 768 KB ﬁ les.
1Storage overhead and network overhead are constant in the si ze of the ﬁle, but depend on the chosen security
parameter.
2

F client F'
m
client generates 
metadata (m ) and 
modifed ﬁle (F')
client store server store
m F'
input ﬁle
no server 
processing
(a) Pre-process and store
client
m
(1) client generates a 
random challenge R
client store server store
m F'
(3) client veriﬁes 
server's proof
server
(2) server computes 
proof of possession P
F'
R
P0/1
(b) Verify server possession
Figure 1: Protocol for provable data possession.
Contributions. In this paper we:
formally deﬁne protocols for provable data possession (PDP ) that provide probabilistic proof
that a third party stores a ﬁle.
introduce the ﬁrst provably-secure and practical PDP schem es that guarantee data possession.
implement one of our PDP schemes and show experimentally tha t probabilistic possession
guarantees make it practical to verify possession of large d ata sets.
Our PDP schemes provide data format independence , which is a relevant feature in practical
deployments (more details on this in the remarks of Section 4 .3), and put no restriction on the
number of times the client can challenge the server to prove d ata possession. Also, a variant of our
main PDP scheme oﬀers public veriﬁability (described in Section 4.3).
Note. A preliminary version of this paper that appears in the proce edings of CCS 2007 [3] contained
an error in the security proof: We erroneously made an assump tion that does not hold when the
parameter e is public 2. As a result, we have simpliﬁed the scheme and e is now part of the secret
key. Keeping e secret aﬀects only the public veriﬁability feature, which is no longer provided by
our main PDP scheme. This feature allows anyone, not just the data owner, to challenge the server
for data possession. However, we show how to achieve public v eriﬁability by simply restricting the
size of ﬁle blocks (see the end of Section 4.3).
Paper Organization. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we describe a
framework for provable data possession, emphasizing the fe atures and parameters that are relevant
for PDP. Section 3 overviews related work. In Section 4, we in troduce homomorphic veriﬁable tags,
followed by deﬁnitions for PDP schemes and then we give our co nstructions ( S-PDP and E-PDP).
We support our theoretical claims with experiments that sho w the practicality of our schemes in
Section 5 and conclude in Section 6.
2 Provable Data Possession (PDP)
We describe a framework for provable data possession. This p rovides background for related
work and for the speciﬁc description of our schemes. A PDP pro tocol (Fig. 1) checks that an
outsourced storage site retains a ﬁle, which consists of a co llection of n blocks. The client C (data
owner) pre-processes the ﬁle, generating a piece of metadat a that is stored locally, transmits the ﬁle
2We assumed that gcd( e, |M ∗ − M |) = 1 with overwhelming probability. However, this turned ou t to be false
when e is public.
3

[20] [20]-Wagner [17, 19] [41] [40] S-PDP E-PDP
(MHT-SC) (B-PDP)
Data possession No No Yes Yes Yes∗ Yes Yes
Supports sampling No No No No No† Yes Yes
Type of guarantee deterministic probabilistic / probabilisticdeterministic
Server block access O(n) O(logn) O(n) O(n) O(n) O(1) O(1)
Server computation O(n) O(1) O(n) O(1) O(n) O(1) O(1)
Client computation O(1) O(1) O(1) O(1) O(1) O(1) O(1)
Communication O(1) O(logn) O(1) O(1) O(n) O(1) O(1)
Client storage O(1) O(1) O(1) O(n) O(1) O(1) O(1)
Table 1: Features and parameters (per challenge) of various PDP schemes when the server misbehaves by
deleting a fraction of an n-block ﬁle ( e.g., 1% of n). The server and client computation is expressed as the
total cost of performing modular exponentiation operation s. For simplicity, the security parameter is not
included as a factor for the relevant costs.
∗ No security proof is given for this scheme, so assurance of da ta possession is not conﬁrmed.
† The client can ask proof for select symbols inside a block, bu t cannot sample across blocks.
to the server S, and may delete its local copy. The server stores the ﬁle and r esponds to challenges
issued by the client. Storage at the server is in Ω( n) and storage at the client is in O(1), conforming
to our notion of an outsourced storage relationship.
As part of pre-processing, the client may alter the ﬁle to be s tored at the server. The client
may expand the ﬁle or include additional metadata to be store d at the server. Before deleting its
local copy of the ﬁle, the client may execute a data possessio n challenge to make sure the server
has successfully stored the ﬁle. Clients may encrypt a ﬁle pr ior to out-sourcing the storage. For
our purposes, encryption is an orthogonal issue; the “ﬁle” m ay consist of encrypted data and our
metadata does not include encryption keys.
At a later time, the client issues a challenge to the server to establish that the server has retained
the ﬁle. The client requests that the server compute a functi on of the stored ﬁle, which it sends
back to the client. Using its local metadata, the client veri ﬁes the response.
Threat model. The server S must answer challenges from the client C; failure to do so represents
a data loss. However, the server is not trusted: Even though t he ﬁle is totally or partially missing,
the server may try to convince the client that it possesses th e ﬁle. The server’s motivation for
misbehavior can be diverse and includes reclaiming storage by discarding data that has not been
or is rarely accessed (for monetary reasons), or hiding a dat a loss incident (due to management
errors, hardware failure, compromise by outside or inside a ttacks etc). The goal of a PDP scheme
that achieves probabilistic proof of data possession is to d etect server misbehavior when the server
has deleted a fraction of the ﬁle.
Requirements and Parameters. The important performance parameters of a PDP scheme
include:
Computation complexity: The computational cost to pre-process a ﬁle (at C), to generate a
proof of possession (at S) and to verify such a proof (at C);
Block access complexity: The number of ﬁle blocks accessed to generate a proof of posse ssion
4

(at S);
Communication complexity: The amount of data transferred (between C and S).
For a scalable solution, the amount of computation and block accesses at the server should be
minimized, because the server may be involved in concurrent interactions with many clients. We
stress that in order to minimize bandwidth, an eﬃcient PDPscheme cannot consist of retrieving
entire ﬁle blocks. While relevant, the computation complexity at the client is of less importance,
even though our schemes minimize that as well.
To meet these performance goals, our PDP schemes sample the s erver’s storage, accessing
a random subset of blocks. In doing so, the PDP schemes provid e a probabilistic guarantee of
possession; a deterministic guarantee cannot be provided w ithout accessing all blocks. In fact, as
a special case of our PDP scheme, the client may ask proof for a ll the ﬁle blocks, making the data
possession guarantee deterministic. Sampling proves data possession with high probability based on
accessing few blocks in the ﬁle, which radically alters the p erformance of proving data possession.
Interestingly, when the server deletes a fraction of the ﬁle , the client can detect server misbehavior
with high probability by asking proof for a constant amount o f blocks, independently of the total
number of ﬁle blocks. As an example, for a ﬁle with n = 10, 000 blocks, if S has deleted 1% of the
blocks, then C can detect server misbehavior with probability greater tha n 99% by asking proof
of possession for only 460 randomly selected blocks (repres enting 4.6% of n). For more details see
Section 5.1.
We list the features of our PDP schemes ( S-PDP and E-PDP) in Table 1. We also include a
comparison of related techniques [20], [17, 19]( B-PDP), [41] and [40]. The scheme [20]-Wagner
(MHT-SC) refers to the variant suggested by David Wagner [20], based on Merkle hash trees. Both
schemes in [20] do not provide a data possession guarantee, b ut only enforce storage complexity.
Indeed, as noted by Golle et al. [20], the server could pass the veriﬁcation procedure by usi ng (and
storing) a diﬀerent ﬁle, which is at least as big as the origin al one. We emphasize that PDP schemes
that oﬀer an inherently deterministic guarantee by accessi ng all the blocks of the ﬁle ([20, 17, 19])
cannot oﬀer both sampling across blocks and constant storage on the client; f undamental changes
would be required in these schemes in order to avoid storing O(n) metadata on the client. The
scheme in [40] allows the client to request proof of possessi on of segments from each ﬁle block.
However, the server’s response includes one “signature” pe r each block, which makes its size linear
with respect to the number of blocks.
A “strawman” solution. We notice that if one is willing to allow the server to send ent ire ﬁle
blocks back to the client as proof of possession, then a simpl e solution is possible. Initially, the
client computes a message authentication code (MAC) for eac h ﬁle block and stores the MACs at
the server. Later, to obtain a probabilistic proof of data po ssession, the client retrieves a number
of randomly selected ﬁle blocks and their corresponding MAC s. However, this solution requires
an arbitrarily large amount of bandwidth, which is linear wi th respect to the number of queried
blocks. In contrast, our solutions have constant network co mmunication.
3 Related Work
Deswarte et al. [17] and Filho et al. [19] provide techniques to verify that a remote server
stores a ﬁle using RSA-based hash functions. Unlike other ha sh-based approaches, it allows a client
to perform multiple challenges using the same metadata. In t his protocol, communication and
client storage complexity are both O(1). The limitation of the algorithm lies in the computation al
5

complexity at the server, which must exponentiate the entir e ﬁle, accessing all of the ﬁle’s blocks.
Further, RSA over the entire ﬁle is extremely slow — 20 second s per Megabyte for 1024-bit keys
on a 3.0 GHz processor [19]. In fact, these limitations led us to study algorithms that allowed for
sub-ﬁle access (sampling). We implement this protocol for c omparison with our PDP scheme and
refer to it as B-PDP (basic PDP). A description of B-PDP is provided in Appendix B. Shah et al.
[42] use a similar technique for third-party auditing of dat a stored at online service providers and
put forth some of the challenges associated with auditing on line storage services.
Schwarz and Miller [40] propose a scheme that allows a client to verify the storage of m/n
erasure-coded data across multiple sites even if sites coll ude. The data possession guarantee is
achieved using a special construct, called an “algebraic si gnature”: A function that ﬁngerprints a
block and has the property that the signature of the parity bl ock equals the parity of the signatures
of the data blocks. The parameters of the scheme limit its app licability: The ﬁle access and
computation complexity at the server and the communication complexity are all linear in the
number of ﬁle blocks ( n) per challenge. Additionally, the security of the scheme is not proven and
remains in question.
Sebe et al. [41] give a protocol for remote ﬁle integrity checking, base d on the Diﬃe-Hellman
problem in ZN . The client has to store N bits per block, where N is the size of an RSA modulus,
so the total storage on the client is O(n) (which does not conform to our notion of an outsourced
storage relationship). Indeed, the authors state that this solution only makes sense if the size of a
block is much larger than N . Moreover, the protocol requires the server to access the en tire ﬁle.
Similar techniques were proposed by Yamamoto et al. [47], in the context of checking data integrity
through batch veriﬁcation of homomorphic hash functions.
Homomorphic hash functions have been used in source authentication, e.g., to verify data trans-
fer in a pay-for-bandwidth content distribution network. K rohn et al. [28] provide the best example
and give a good review of other applications of homomorphic h ashing. They use homomorphism
to compose multiple blocks inputs into a single value. Howev er, this protocol can only compose
speciﬁc subsets of blocks, based on erasure coding. Source a uthentication techniques do not apply
to provable data possession.
Related to provable data possession is the enforcement of st orage complexity, which shows that
a server retains an amount of information at least as large as the ﬁle received from the client; the
server does not necessarily retain the original ﬁle. To the b est of our knowledge, Golle et al. [20]
were the ﬁrst to propose a scheme that enforces storage compl exity, based on a new assumption
(n-Power Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman). Their scheme considers a diﬀerent setting that involves three
parties and provides two additional features (binding and c oncealing) that resemble commitment
schemes. Golle et al. also brieﬂy mention a scheme suggested by David Wagner, base d on Merkle
hash trees, which lowers the computational requirements fo r the server at the expense of increased
communication. We implement Wagner’s suggestion for compa rison with our PDP scheme and
refer to it as MHT-SC. A description of MHT-SC is provided in Appendix B.
Oprea et al. [39] propose a scheme based on tweakable block ciphers that a llows a client to detect
the modiﬁcation of data blocks by an untrusted server. The sc heme does not require additional
storage at the server and if the client’s data has low entropy then the client only needs to keep a
relatively low amount of state. However, veriﬁcation requi res the entire ﬁle to be retrieved, which
means that the server ﬁle access and communication complexi ty are both linear with the ﬁle size per
challenge. The scheme is targeted for data retrieval. It is i mpractical for verifying data possession.
Memory checking protocols [12, 37] verify that all reads and writes to a remote memory behave
6

identically to reads and writes to a local memory. PDP is a res tricted form of memory checking in
that memory checking veriﬁes every read and write generated from a program at any granularity.
Due to this restriction, memory checking is much more diﬃcul t and expensive than proving data
possession. Related to PDP, Naor and Rothblum introduced th e problem of sub-linear authentica-
tion [37], verifying that a ﬁle stored on a remote server has not be en signiﬁcantly corrupted. They
show that the existence of one-way functions is an essential condition for eﬃcient online checking.
Similar to PDP, Juels and Kaliski introduce the notion of proof of retrievability (POR) [25],
which allows a server to convince a client that it can retriev e a ﬁle that was previously stored at the
server. The main POR scheme uses disguised blocks (called se ntinels) hidden among regular ﬁle
blocks in order to detect data modiﬁcation by the server. Alt hough comparable in scope with PDP,
their POR scheme can only be applied to encrypted ﬁles and can handle only a limited number
of queries, which has to be ﬁxed a priori. In contrast, our PDP schemes can be applied to (large)
public databases ( e.g., digital libraries, astronomy/medical/legal repositori es, archives, etc.) other
than encrypted ones and put no restriction on the number of ch allenges that can be executed.
An alternative to checking remote storage is to make data res istant to undetectable deletion
through entanglement [45, 2], which encodes data to create d ependencies among unrelated data
throughout the storage system. Thus, deleting any data reve als itself as it deletes other unrelated
data throughout the system.
Our homomorphic veriﬁable tags are related with the concept of homomorphic signatures in-
troduced by Johnson et al. [24]. As pointed out by the same authors, fully-additive hom omorphic
signature schemes cannot be secure; our homomorphic veriﬁa ble tags are able to achieve a form
of message homomorphism under addition because of their spe cial structure that uses one-time
indices.
The PDP solutions that we present are the ﬁrst schemes that se curely prove the possession of
data on an untrusted server and are computationally eﬃcient , i.e., require a constant number of
modular exponentiations and have constant I/O complexity. This makes our PDP solutions the
ﬁrst schemes suitable for implementation in large data syst ems.
4 Provable Data Possession Schemes
4.1 Preliminaries
The client C wants to store on the server S a ﬁle F which is a ﬁnite ordered collection of n
blocks: F = (m1,...,m n).
We denote the output x of an algorithm A byx←A . We denote by |x| the absolute value of x.
Homomorphic V eriﬁable T ags (HVTs). We introduce the concept of a homomorphic veriﬁable
tag that will be used as a building block for our PDP schemes.
Given a message m (corresponding to a ﬁle block), we denote by Tm its homomorphic veriﬁable
tag. The tags will be stored on the server together with the ﬁl e F. Homomorphic veriﬁable tags
act as veriﬁcation metadata for the ﬁle blocks and, besides b eing unforgeable, they also have the
following properties:
Blockless veriﬁcation : Using HVTs the server can construct a proof that allows the c lient to verify
if the server possesses certain ﬁle blocks, even when the cli ent does not have access to the actual
ﬁle blocks.
Homomorphic tags : Given two values Tmi and Tmj , anyone can combine them into a value Tmi+mj
corresponding to the sum of the messages mi +mj.
7

In our construction, an HVT is a pair of values ( Ti,m, Wi), where Wi is a random value obtained
from an index i and Ti,m is stored at the server. The index i can be seen as a one-time index
because it is never reused for computing tags (a simple way to ensure that every tag uses a diﬀerent
index i is to use a global counter for i). The random value Wi is generated by concatenating the
index i to a secret value, which ensures that Wi is diﬀerent and unpredictable each time a tag is
computed. HVTs and their corresponding proofs have a ﬁxed co nstant size and are (much) smaller
than the actual ﬁle blocks.
We emphasize that techniques based on aggregate signatures [13], multi-signatures [33, 38],
batch RSA [18], batch veriﬁcation of RSA [22, 4], condensed R SA [36], etc. would all fail to provide
blockless veriﬁcation , which is needed by our PDP scheme. Indeed, the client has to h ave the ability
to verify the tags on speciﬁc ﬁle blocks even though he does not possess any of those blocks.
4.2 Deﬁnitions
We start with the precise deﬁnition of a provable data posses sion scheme, followed by a security
deﬁnition that captures the data possession property.
Deﬁnition 4.1 (Provable Data Possession Scheme (PDP)) A PDP scheme is a collection
of four polynomial-time algorithms (KeyGen, TagBlock, GenProof, CheckProof) such that:
KeyGen(1k)→ (pk, sk) is a probabilistic key generation algorithm that is run by th e client to setup
the scheme. It takes a security parameter k as input, and returns a pair of matching public and
secret keys (pk, sk).
TagBlock(pk, sk,m )→ Tm is a (possibly probabilistic) algorithm run by the client to generate the
veriﬁcation metadata. It takes as inputs a public key pk, a secret key sk and a ﬁle block m,
and returns the veriﬁcation metadata Tm.
GenProof(pk, F, chal, Σ) →V is run by the server in order to generate a proof of possession . It
takes as inputs a public key pk, an ordered collection F of blocks, a challenge chal and an
ordered collection Σ which is the veriﬁcation metadata corresponding to the bloc ks in F. It
returns a proof of possession V for the blocks in F that are determined by the challenge chal.
CheckProof(pk, sk, chal,V)→{ “success”, “failure ”} is run by the client in order to validate a proof
of possession. It takes as inputs a public key pk, a secret key sk, a challenge chal and a proof
of possessionV. It returns whether V is a correct proof of possession for the blocks determined
by chal.
A PDP system can be constructed from a PDP scheme in two phases , Setup and Challenge:
Setup: The client C is in possession of the ﬁle F and runs (pk , sk) ← KeyGen(1k), followed by
Tmi← TagBlock(pk, sk,m i) for all 1 ≤ i≤ n. C stores the pair (sk , pk). C then sends pk , F
and Σ = ( Tm1,..., Tmn) to S for storage and deletes F and Σ from its local storage.
Challenge:C generates a challenge chal that, among other things, indicates the speciﬁc blocks
for which C wants a proof of possession. C then sends chal to S. S runs V ←
GenProof(pk, F, chal, Σ) and sends to C the proof of possession V. Finally, C can check the
validity of the proof V by running CheckProof(pk, sk, chal,V).
In the Setup phase, C computes tags for each ﬁle block and stores them together wit h the ﬁle
at S. In the Challenge phase, C requests proof of possession for a subset of the blocks in F. This
phase can be executed an unlimited number of times in order to ascertain whether S still possesses
the selected blocks.
8

We state the security for a PDP system using a game that captur es the data possession property.
Intuitively, the Data Possession Game captures that an adve rsary cannot successfully construct a
valid proof without possessing all the blocks correspondin g to a given challenge, unless it guesses
all the missing blocks.
Data Possession Game :
Setup: The challenger runs (pk , sk)← KeyGen(1k), sends pk to the adversary and keeps sk
secret.
Query: The adversary makes tagging queries adaptively: It select s a block m1 and sends it to
the challenger. The challenger computes the veriﬁcation me tadata Tm1← TagBlock(pk, sk,m 1)
and sends it back to the adversary. The adversary continues t o query the challenger for the
veriﬁcation metadata Tm2,..., Tmn on the blocks of its choice m2,...,m n. As a general rule,
the challenger generates Tmj for some 1 ≤ j≤ n, by computing Tmj← TagBlock(pk, sk,m j).
The adversary then stores all the blocks as an ordered collec tion F = (m1,...,m n), together
with the corresponding veriﬁcation metadata Tm1,..., Tmn.
Challenge: The challenger generates a challenge chal and requests the adversary to provide a
proof of possession for the blocks mi1,...,m ic determined by chal, where 1 ≤ ij≤ n, 1≤j≤
c, 1≤c≤n.
F orge: The adversary computes a proof of possession V for the blocks indicated by chal and
returnsV.
If CheckProof(pk, sk, chal,V) = “success”, then the adversary has won the Data Possession Game.
Deﬁnition 4.2 A PDP system (Setup, Challenge) built on a PDP scheme (KeyGen, TagBlock,
GenProof, CheckProof) guarantees data possession if for any (probabilistic polyn omial-time) ad-
versaryA the probability thatA wins the Data Possession Game on a set of ﬁle blocks is negligi bly
close to the probability that the challenger can extract tho se ﬁle blocks by means of a knowledge
extractorE.
In our security deﬁnition, the notion of a knowledge extract or is similar with the standard one
introduced in the context of proofs of knowledge [5]. If the a dversary is able to win the Data
Possession Game, thenE can execute GenProof repeatedly until it extracts the selected blocks. On
the other hand, if E cannot extract the blocks, then the adversary cannot win the game with more
than negligible probability. We refer the reader to [25] for a more generic and extraction-based
security deﬁnition for POR and to [37] for the security deﬁni tion of sub-linear authenticators.
4.3 Eﬃcient and Secure PDP Schemes
In this section we present our PDP constructions: The ﬁrst ( S-PDP) provides a strong data
possession guarantee, while the second ( E-PDP) achieves better eﬃciency at the cost of weakening
the data possession guarantee.
We start by introducing some additional notation used by the constructions. Let p = 2p′ + 1
and q = 2q′ + 1 be safe primes and let N = pq be an RSA modulus. Let g be a generator of
QRN , the unique cyclic subgroup of Z∗
N of order p′q′ (i.e., QRN is the set of quadratic residues
modulo N ). We can obtain g as g = a2, where a R← Z∗
N such that gcd( a± 1,N ) = 1. All
exponentiations are performed modulo N , and for simplicity we sometimes omit writing it explicitly .
9

Let h :{0, 1}∗ → QRN be a secure deterministic hash-and-encode function 3 that maps strings
uniformly to QRN .
The schemes are based on the KEA1 assumption which was introd uced by Damgard in 1991 [14]
and subsequently used by several others, most notably in [21 , 6, 7, 27, 15]. In particular, Bellare
and Palacio [6] provided a formulation of KEA1, that we follo w and adapt to work in the RSA ring:
KEA1-r (Knowledge of Exponent Assumption): For any adversary A that takes input ( N,g,g s)
and returns group elements ( C,Y ) such that Y =C s, there exists an “extractor” ¯A which, given
the same inputs as A, returns x such that C =gx.
Recently, KEA1 has been shown to hold in generic groups ( i.e., it is secure in the generic
group model) by A. Dent [16] and independently by Abe and Fehr [1]. In private communication,
Yamamoto has informed us that Yamamoto, Fujisaki, and Abe in troduced the KEA1 assumption
in the RSA setting in [46]. Their assumption, named NKEA1, is the same as ours, KEA1-r, except
that we restrict g to be a generator of the group of quadratic residues of order p′q′. As noted in
their paper [46], if the order is not known then the extractor returns an x such that C =±gx.
Later in this section, we also show an alternative strategy w hich does not rely on the KEA1-r
assumption, at the cost of increased network communication .
S-PDP overview. We ﬁrst give an overview of our provable data possession sche me that supports
sampling. In the Setup phase, the client computes a homomorphic veriﬁable tag ( Ti,mi, Wi) for each
block mi of the ﬁle. In order to maintain constant storage, the client generates the random values
Wi by concatenating the index i to a secret value v; thus, TagBlock has an extra parameter, i. Each
value Ti,mi includes information about the index i of the block mi, in the form of a value h(Wi) This
binds the tag on a block to that speciﬁc block, and prevents us ing the tag to obtain a proof for a
diﬀerent block. These tags are stored on the server together with the ﬁle F. The extra storage at
the server is the price to pay for allowing thin clients that o nly store a small, constant amount of
data, regardless of the ﬁle size.
In the Challenge phase, the client asks the server for proof of possession of c ﬁle blocks whose
indices are randomly chosen using a pseudo-random permutat ion keyed with a fresh randomly-
chosen key for each challenge. This prevents the server from anticipating which blocks will be
queried in each challenge. C also generates a fresh (random) challenge gs = gs to ensure that S
does not reuse any values from a previous Challenge phase. The server returns a proof of possession
that consists of two values: T and ρ. T is obtained by combining into a single value the individual
tags Ti,mi corresponding to each of the requested blocks. ρ is obtained by raising the challenge gs
to a function of the requested blocks. The value T contains information about the indices of the
blocks requested by the client (in the form of the h(Wi) values). C can remove all the h(Wi) values
from T because it has both the key for the pseudo-random permutatio n (used to determine the
indices of the requested blocks) and the secret value v (used to generate the values Wi). C can then
verify the validity of the server’s proof by checking if a cer tain relation holds between T and ρ.
S-PDP in detail. Let κ,ℓ,λ be security parameters ( λ is a positive integer) and let H be a
cryptographic hash function. In addition, we make use of a ps eudo-random function (PRF) f and
a pseudo-random permutation (PRP) π with the following parameters:
3h is computed by squaring the output of the full-domain hash fu nction for the provably secure FDH signature
scheme [8, 9] based on RSA. We refer the reader to [8] for ways t o construct an FDH function out of regular hash
functions, such as SHA-1. Alternatively, h can be the deterministic encoding function used in RSA-PSS [ 10].
10

As previously deﬁned, let f be a pseudo-random function, let π be a pseudo-random permutation
and let H be a cryptographic hash function.
KeyGen(1k): Generate pk = ( N,g ) and sk = (e,d,v ), such that ed≡ 1( modp′q′),e is a large secret
prime such that e>λ and d>λ ,g is a generator of QRN and v
R
←{ 0, 1}κ . Output (pk , sk).
TagBlock(pk, sk,m,i ):
1. Let ( N,g ) = pk and ( d,v ) = sk. Generate Wi =v||i. Compute Ti,m = (h(Wi)·gm)d modN .
2. Output ( Ti,m, Wi).
GenProof(pk, F = (m1,...,m n), chal, Σ = ( T1,m 1,..., Tn,m n )):
1. Let ( N,g ) = pk and ( c,k 1,k 2,g s) = chal.
For 1≤j≤c:
• compute the indices of the blocks for which the proof is gener ated: ij =πk1 (j)
• compute coeﬃcients: aj =fk2(j).
2. Compute T = Ta1
i1,m i1
·... ·Tac
ic,m ic
= (h(Wi1 )a1·... ·h(Wic )ac·ga1mi1 +... +acmic )d modN .
(note that Tij ,m ij is the ij-th value in Σ).
3. Compute ρ =H(g
a1mi1 +... +acmic
s modN ).
4. Output V = (T,ρ ).
CheckProof(pk, sk, chal,V):
1. Let ( N,g ) = pk, (e,v ) = sk, (c,k 1,k 2,s ) = chal and ( T,ρ ) =V.
2. Let τ = Te. For 1 ≤j≤c:
• compute ij =πk1 (j), Wij =v||ij, aj =fk2 (j), and τ = τ
h(Wij )aj
modN
(As a result, one should get τ =ga1mi1 +... +acmic modN )
3. If H(τ s modN ) = ρ, then output “success”. Otherwise output “failure”.
We construct a PDP system from a PDP scheme in two phases, Setup and Challenge:
Setup: The client C runs (pk, sk)← KeyGen(1k), stores (sk, pk) and sets (N,g ) = pk, (e,d,v ) = sk.
C then runs ( Ti,m i, Wi)← TagBlock(pk, (d,v ),m i,i ) for all 1 ≤ i≤ n and sends pk , F and Σ =
(T1,m 1,..., Tn,m n ) to S for storage. C may now delete F and Σ from its local storage.
Challenge: C requests proof of possession for c distinct blocks of the ﬁle F (with 1≤c≤n):
1. C generates the challenge chal = (c,k 1,k 2,g s), where k1
R
← {0, 1}κ , k2
R
← {0, 1}κ , gs =
gs modN and s
R
← Z∗
N . C sends chal to S.
2. S runsV← GenProof(pk, F, chal, Σ = ( T1,m 1,..., Tn,m n )) and sends to C the proof of posses-
sionV.
3. C sets chal = ( c,k 1,k 2,s ) and checks the validity of the proof V by running
CheckProof(pk, (e,v ), chal,V).
Figure 2: S-PDP: a PDP scheme with strong data possession guarantee
f :{0, 1}κ×{ 0, 1}log2(n)→{ 0, 1}ℓ;
π :{0, 1}κ×{ 0, 1}log2(n)→{ 0, 1}log2(n)
We write fk(x) to denote f keyed with key k applied on input x. Our S-PDP scheme is described
11

in Fig. 2. The purpose of including the the aj coeﬃcients in the values for ρ and T computed by S
is to ensure that S possesses each one of the requested blocks. These coeﬃcient s are determined by
a PRF keyed with a fresh randomly-chosen key for each challen ge, which prevents S from storing
combinations (e.g., sums) of the original blocks instead of the original ﬁle blo cks themselves. Also,
we are able to maintain constant communication cost because tags on blocks can be combined into
a single value.
In Appendix A, we prove:
Theorem 4.3 Under the RSA and KEA1-r assumptions, S-PDP guarantees data possession in the
random oracle model.
Regarding eﬃciency, we remark that each challenge requires a small, constant amount of com-
munication betweenC andS (the challenge and the response are each slightly more than 1 Kilobit).
In terms of server block access, the demands are c accesses for S, while in terms of computation
we have c exponentiations for both C and S. When S deletes a fraction of the ﬁle blocks, c is a
relatively small, constant value, which gives the O(1) parameters in Table 1 (for more details, see
Section 5.1). Since the size of the ﬁle is O(n), accommodating the additional tags does not change
(asymptotically) the storage requirements for the server.
In our analysis we assume w.l.o.g. that the indices for the bl ocks picked by the client in a
challenge are diﬀerent. One way to achieve this is to impleme nt π using the techniques proposed
by Black and Rogaway [11]. In a practical deployment, our pro tocol can tolerate collisions of these
indices. Moreover, notice that the client can dynamically a ppend new blocks to the stored ﬁle after
the Setup phase, without re-tagging the entire ﬁle.
Notice that the server may store the client’s ﬁle F however it sees ﬁt, as long as it is able to
recover the ﬁle when answering a challenge. For example, it i s allowed to compress F (e.g., if all
the blocks of F are identical, then the server may only store one full block a nd the information
that all the blocks are equal). Alternatively, w.l.o.g., on e could assume that F has been optimally
compressed by the client and the size of F is equal to F’s information entropy function.
A concrete example of using S-PDP. For a concrete example of using S-PDP, we consider a
1024-bit modulus N and a 4 GB ﬁle F which has n = 1, 000, 000 4KB blocks. During Setup, C
stores the ﬁle and the tags at S. The tags require additional storage of 128 MB. The client st ores
about 3 Kbytes ( N,e,d each have 1024 bits and v has 128 bits). During the Challenge phase, C
and S use AES for π (used to select the random block indices i), HMAC for f (used to determine
the random coeﬃcients a) and SHA1 for H. In a challenge, C sends to S four values which total
168 bytes ( c has 4 bytes, k1 has 16 bytes, k2 has 20 bytes, gs has 1024 bits). Assuming that S
deletes at least 1% of F, then C can detect server misbehavior with probability over 99% by a sking
proof for c = 460 randomly selected blocks. The server’s response conta ins two values which total
148 bytes ( T has 1024 bits, ρ has 20 bytes). We emphasize that the server’s response to a ch allenge
consists of a small, constant value; in particular, the serv er does not send back to the client any of
the ﬁle blocks and not even their sum.
A more eﬃcient scheme, with weaker guarantees ( E-PDP). Our S-PDP scheme provides the
guarantee that S possesses each one of the c blocks for which C requested proof of possession in a
challenge. We now describe a more eﬃcient variant of S-PDP, which we call E-PDP, that achieves
better performance at the cost of oﬀering weaker guarantees . E-PDP diﬀers from S-PDP only in
that all the coeﬃcients aj are equal to 1:
12

In GenProof (steps 2 and 3) the server computes T = Ti1,m1 ·... ·Tic,mc and ρ =
H(g
mi1 +...+mic
s modN ).
In CheckProof (step 2) the client computes τ = Te
h(Wi1)·... ·h(Wic) modN .
The E-PDP scheme reduces the computation on both the server and the the client to one
exponentiation, as described in Table 1 (see Server Computa tion details in Section 5.2, the server
computesρ as one exponentiation to a value whose size in bits is slightl y larger than |mi|). E-PDP
only guarantees possession of the sum of the blocks mi1 +... +mic and not necessarily possession
of each one of the blocks for which the client requests proof o f possession. However, we argue next
that this is not a practical concern.
If the server pre-computes and stores the sums of all possibl e combinations of c blocks out of the
n blocks (
( n
c
)
values), then the server could successfully pass any challe nge. When using E-PDP,
the client needs to choose the parameters of the scheme such t hat it is infeasible for the server to
misbehave by pre-computing and storing all these sums. For e xample, if n = 1000 and c = 101, the
server needs to pre-compute and store ≈ 10140 values and might be better oﬀ trying to factor N .
The client can also reduce the server’s ability to misbehave by choosing c as a prime integer and
by using a diﬀerent c value for each challenge.
An alternative strategy (No KEA1-r Assumption). Instead of the value ρ, the server S
could send the sum of the queried blocks as an integer ( S does not know the order of QRN ) and
letC verify the proof of possession using this value. Thus, we wil l not have to rely on the KEA1-r
assumption. However, network communication will increase by a signiﬁcant amount.
In addition, notice that any solution based on proofs of know ledge of the sum would require
even more bandwidth than just sending the sum itself. This is , again, because S does not know
the order of QRN and would have to work with large integers.
Public veriﬁability . The variant of the protocol described above that does not rel y on KEA1-r
can be further modiﬁed in order to oﬀer the public veriﬁability property, which allows anyone, not
just the data owner, to challenge the server for data possess ion. The advantages of having public
veriﬁability are akin to those of public-key over symmetric -key cryptography.
The size of the each ﬁle block and the coeﬃcients ai’s (the outputs of the pseudo-random
function f ) is now limited so that the sum of any c blocks will be less than λ/2 (remember that
e>λ ). The following changes should be applied to the S-PDP protocol (described in Fig. 2):
• the client (data owner) makes e public (along with N andg).
• the values Wi are generated as Wi = wv(i), where w is a PRF such that w : {0, 1}κ×
{0, 1}log2(n)→{ 0, 1}ℓ and v R←{ 0, 1}κ.
• after the initial Setup phase, the client (data owner) publishes v (the key for the PRF w).
• in GenProof and in CheckProof, the challenge chal does not contain the values gs and s
anymore (also, in the Challenge phase these values are not used anymore).
• in GenProof the server computes M =a1mi1 +... +acmic instead ofρ and returnsV = (T,M ).
13

• in CheckProof, step 3, the client now checks whether gM = τ and, in addition, the client
checks whether|M|<λ/ 2. (This test ensures that, in the proof in Appendix A, the con dition
gcd(e, 2(M ∗−M )) = 1 is veriﬁed.)
The communication cost of this variant is now slightly large r than the size of a ﬁle block. We
leave as an open problem devising publicly-veriﬁable PDP sc hemes where the size of challenges and
responses is less than the size of a single ﬁle block.
In Appendix A, we prove:
Theorem 4.4 Under the RSA assumption, the scheme above guarantees data p ossession in the
random oracle model.
Remark 1 (Data F ormat Independence). Our PDP schemes put no restriction on the format
of the data, in particular ﬁles stored at the server do not hav e to be encrypted. This feature is very
relevant since we anticipate that PDP schemes will have the b iggest impact when used with large
public repositories ( e.g., digital libraries, astronomy/medical/legal repositori es, archives etc.).
Remark 2 (Prime-order Group V ariant). Alternatively, our PDP schemes can potentially
be modiﬁed to work within a group of a publicly-known prime or der q. In this case, however, ﬁle
blocks (seen as integers) must be less than q, otherwise the server could simply store them reduced
modulo q. In a prime-order setting, network communication is furthe r reduced (particularly in the
elliptic curve setting), but pre-processing becomes more e xpensive given the small size of the ﬁle
blocks. In contrast, the RSA setting allows us to work with ar bitrarily large ﬁle blocks.
Remark 3 (Multiple Files). We have described PDP schemes for the case when a client store s
a single ﬁle F on the server. In the TagBlock algorithm, for each block mi the client computes a
tag over the tuple ( Wi,m i). We emphasize that the values Wi cannot be reused. Since Wi is obtained
by concatenating a secret value v with i, this implies that the indices i must be diﬀerent across
all tags. In other words, the client should not use the same in dex twice for computing tags. This
condition holds because in our scheme an index i is simply the position of the block mi in the ﬁle.
In order to store multiple ﬁles on the server, the client must ensure that indices used to compute
tags are distinct not only across the tags corresponding to t he blocks of each ﬁle, but also across
the tags corresponding to the blocks of all ﬁles. One simple m ethod to achieve this is to pre-
pend the ﬁle’s identiﬁer to the index. For example, if the ide ntiﬁer of a ﬁle F = (m1,...,m n)
is given by id(F), then for each block mi, 1 ≤ i≤ n, C computes the tag ( Tid(F)||i,mi, Wid(F)||i)←
TagBlock(pk, sk,m i, id(F)||i). The uniqueness of indices is ensured under the assumption that each
ﬁle has a unique identiﬁer. Another simple way to ensure that indices are only used once is to use a
global counter for the index, which is incremented by the cli ent each time after a tag is computed.
5 System Implementation and Performance Evaluation
5.1 Probabilistic F ramework
Our PDP schemes allow the server to prove possession of selec t blocks of F. This “sampling”
ability greatly reduces the workload on the server, while st ill achieving detection of server misbe-
havior with high probability. We now analyze the probabilis tic guarantees oﬀered by a scheme that
supports block sampling.
Assume S deletes t blocks out of the n-block ﬁle F. Let c be the number of diﬀerent blocks for
which C asks proof in a challenge. Let X be a discrete random variable that is deﬁned to be the
14

c (number of queried blocks) (as a percentage of n)
n (number of file blocks)
0.99
0.9
0.80.70.6
0.5
 0  5  10  15  20
 0
 2000
 4000
 6000
 8000
 10000
(a) t = 1% of n
c (number of queried blocks) (as a percentage of n)
n (number of file blocks)
0.99
0.90.80.70.6
0.5
 0  1  2  3  4  5
 0
 2000
 4000
 6000
 8000
 10000
(b) t = 5% of n
Figure 3: PX , the probability of server misbehavior detection. We show PX as a function of n (the number
of ﬁle blocks) and c (the number of blocks queried by the client, shown as a percen tage of n) for two values
of t (the number of blocks deleted by the server). Note that each g raph has a diﬀerent scale.
number of blocks chosen by C that match the blocks deleted by S. We compute PX , the probability
that at least one of the blocks picked by C matches one of the blocks deleted by S. We have:
PX =P{X≥ 1} = 1−P{X = 0} = 1− n−t
n ·n− 1−t
n− 1 ·n− 2−t
n− 2 ·... ·n−c + 1−t
n−c + 1 .
Since n−i−t
n−i ≥ n−i− 1−t
n−i− 1 , it follows that:
1−
( n−t
n
) c
≤PX≤ 1−
( n−c + 1−t
n−c + 1
) c
.
PX indicates the probability that, if S deletes t blocks of the ﬁle, then C will detect server
misbehavior after a challenge in which it asks proof for c blocks. Fig. 3 plots PX for diﬀerent values
of n, t, c. Interestingly, when t is a fraction of the ﬁle, C can detect server misbehavior with
a certain probability by asking proof for a constant amount o f blocks, independently of the total
number of ﬁle blocks: e.g., if t = 1% of n, then C asks for 460 blocks and 300 blocks in order to
achievePX of at least 99% and 95%, respectively.
5.2 Implementation and Experimental Results
We measure the performance of E-PDP and the beneﬁts of sampling based on our implemen-
tation of E-PDP in Linux. As a basis for comparison, we have also implemented the scheme of
Deswarte et al. [17] and Filho et al. [19] ( B-PDP), and the more eﬃcient scheme in [20] ( MHT-SC)
suggested by David Wagner (these schemes are described in Ap pendix B).
All experiments were conducted on an Intel 2.8 GHz Pentium IV system with a 512 KB cache,
an 800 MHz EPCI bus, and 1024 MB of RAM. The system runs Red Hat L inux 9, kernel version
2.4.22. Algorithms use the crypto library of OpenSSL versio n 0.9.8b with a modulus N of size 1024
bits and ﬁles have 4KB blocks. Experiments that measure disk I/O performance do so by storing
15

0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2
0 10000 20000 30000 40000 50000 60000
File Size (KB)
Time (seconds)
All Blocks
99%
95%
(a) Server (in cache)
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2
0 10000 20000 30000 40000 50000 60000
File Size (KB)
Time (seconds)
All Blocks
99%
95%
(b) Server (on disk)
Figure 4: Performance of sampling at multiple conﬁdence lev els.
ﬁles on an ext3 ﬁle system on a Seagate Barracuda 7200.7 (ST38 0011A) 80GB Ultra ATA/100
drive. All experimental results represent the mean of 20 tri als. Because results varied little across
trials, we do not present conﬁdence intervals.
Sampling. To quantify the performance beneﬁts of sampling for E-PDP, we compare the client
and server performance for detecting 1% missing or faulty da ta at 95% and 99% conﬁdence (Fig.
4). These results are compared with using E-PDP over all blocks of the ﬁle at large ﬁle sizes, up to
64 MB. We measure both the computation time only (in memory) a s well as the overall time (on
disk), which includes I/O costs.
Examining all blocks uses time linear in the ﬁle size for ﬁles larger than 4MB. This is the
point at which the computation becomes bound from either mem ory or disk throughput. Larger
inputs amortize the cost of the single exponentiation requi red by E-PDP. This is also the point at
which the performance of sampling diverges. The number of bl ocks needed to achieve the target
conﬁdence level governs performance.
For larger ﬁles, E-PDP generates data as fast as it can be accessed from memory and su mmed,
because it only computes a single exponentiation. In E-PDP, the server generates ∑ c
i=1mi, which
it exponentiates. The maximum size of this quantity in bits i s|mi| + log2(c); its maximum value
is c·2|mi|. Thus, the cryptographic costs grows logarithmically in th e ﬁle size. The linear cost of
accessing all data blocks and computing the sum dominate thi s logarithmic growth.
Comparing results when data are on disk versus in cache shows that disk throughput bounds
E-PDP’s performance when accessing all blocks. With the exceptio n of the ﬁrst blocks of a ﬁle,
I/O and the challenge computation occur in parallel. Thus, E-PDP generates proofs faster than
the disk can deliver data: 1.0 second versus 1.8 seconds for a 64 MB ﬁle. Because I/O bounds
performance, no protocol can outperform E-PDP by more than the startup costs. While faster,
multiple-disk storage may remove the I/O bound today. Over t ime increases in processor speeds
will exceed those of disk bandwidth and the I/O bound will hol d.
Sampling breaks the linear scaling relationship between ti me to generate a proof of data posses-
sion and the size of the ﬁle. At 99% conﬁdence, E-PDP can build a proof of possession for any ﬁle,
up to 64 MB in size in about 0.4 seconds. Disk I/O incurs about 0 .04 seconds of additional runtime
for larger ﬁle sizes over the in-memory results. Sampling pe rformance characterizes the beneﬁts
of E-PDP. Probabilistic guarantees make it practical to use public- key cryptography constructs to
verify possession of very large data sets.
16

0.001
0.01
0.1
1
10
100
1000
0 200 400 600
File Size (KB)
Time (seconds)
B-PDP
MHT-SE
E-PDP
(a) Challenge time compared
0.001
0.01
0.1
1
10
100
0 200 400 600
File Size (KB)
Time (seconds)
B-PDP
MHT-SE
E-PDP
(b) Pre-processing time compared
Figure 5: Computation performance.
Server Computation. The next experiments look at the worst-case performance of g enerating
a proof of possession, which is useful for planning purposes to allow the server to allocate enough
resources. For E-PDP, this means sampling every block in the ﬁle, while for MHT-SC this means
computing the entire hash tree. We compare the computation c omplexity of E-PDP with other
algorithms, which do not support sampling. All schemes perf orm an equivalent number of disk and
memory accesses.
In step 3 of the GenProof algorithm of S-PDP,S has two ways of computing ρ: Either sum the
valuesajmij (as integers) and then exponentiate gs to this sum or exponentiate gs to each value
ajmij and then multiply all values. We observed that the former cho ice takes considerable less
time, as it only involves one exponentiation to a ( |mi| +ℓ + log2(c))-bit number, as opposed to c
exponentiations to a (|mi| +ℓ)-bit number (typically, ℓ = 160).
Fig. 5(a) shows the computation time as a function of ﬁle size used at the server when computing
a proof for B-PDP, MHT-SC and E-PDP. Note the logarithmic scale. Computation time includes
the time to access the memory blocks that contain ﬁle data in c ache. We restrict this experiment
to ﬁles of 768 KB or less, because of the amount of time consume d by B-PDP.
E-PDP radically alters the complexity of data possession protoco ls and even outperforms pro-
tocols that provide weaker guarantees, speciﬁcally MHT-SC. For ﬁles of 768 KB, E-PDP is more
than 185 times faster than B-PDP and more than 4.5 times as fast as MHT-SC. These performance
ratios become arbitrarily large for larger ﬁle sizes. For B-PDP performance grows linearly with the
ﬁle size, because it exponentiates the entire ﬁle. For MHT-SC, performance also grows linearly, but
in disjoint clusters which represent the height of the Merkl e-tree needed to represent a ﬁle of that
size.
Pre-Processing. In preparing a ﬁle for outsourced storage, the client genera tes its local metadata.
In this experiment, we measure the processor time for metada ta generation only. This does not
include the I/O time to load data to the client or store metada ta to disk, nor does it include the
time to transfer the ﬁle to the server. Fig. 5(b) shows the pre -processing time as a function of ﬁle
size for B-PDP, MHT-SC and E-PDP.
E-PDP exhibits slower pre-processing performance. The costs gro w linearly with the ﬁle size at
162 KB/s. E-PDP performs an exponentiation on every block of the ﬁle in order to create the per-
block tags. For MHT-SC, preprocessing performance mirrors challenge performanc e, because both
17

0
20
40
60
80
100
120
1000 10000 100000 1000000
Block Size (bytes)
T ime (seconds)
Challenge
Pre-Process
Figure 6: E-PDP pre-processing vs. challenge trade-oﬀs with block size for a 1 MB ﬁle.
protocol steps perform the same computation. It generates d ata at about 433 KB/s on average.
The preprocessing performance of B-PDP diﬀers from the challenge phase even though both
steps compute the exact same signature. This is because the c lient has access to φ(N ) and can
reduce the ﬁle modulo φ(N ) before exponentiating. In contrast, the security of the pr otocol depends
onφ(N ) being a secret that is unavailable to the server. The prepro cessing costs comprise a single
exponentiation and computing a modulus against the entire ﬁ le.
E-PDP also exponentiates data that was reduced modulo φ(N ) but does not reap the same speed
up, because it must do so for every block. This creates a natur al trade-oﬀ between preprocessing
time and challenge time by varying the block size; e.g., the protocol devolves to B-PDP for ﬁles of
a single block. Fig. 6 shows this trade-oﬀ and indicates that the best balance occurs at natural ﬁle
system and memory blocks sizes of 4-64 KB (note that in this ex ample all ﬁle blocks are checked
in a challenge). We choose a block size of 4K in order to minimi ze the server’s eﬀort.
Given the eﬃciency of computing challenges, pre-processin g represents the limiting performance
factor for E-PDP. The rate at which clients can generate data to outsource bou nds the overall system
performance perceived by the client. However, there are sev eral mitigating factors. (1) Outsourcing
data is a one time task, as compared to challenging outsource d data, which will be done repeatedly.
(2) The process is completely parallelizable. Each ﬁle can b e processed independently at a diﬀerent
processor. A single ﬁle can be parallelized trivially if pro cessors share key material.
6 Conclusion
We focused on the problem of verifying if an untrusted server stores a client’s data. We in-
troduced a model for provable data possession, in which it is desirable to minimize the ﬁle block
accesses, the computation on the server, and the client-ser ver communication. Our solutions for
PDP ﬁt this model: They incur a low (or even constant) overhea d at the server and require a
small, constant amount of communication per challenge. Key components of our schemes are the
homomorphic veriﬁable tags. They allow to verify data posse ssion without having access to the
actual data ﬁle.
Experiments show that our schemes, which oﬀer a probabilist ic possession guarantee by sam-
pling the server’s storage, make it practical to verify poss ession of large data sets. Previous schemes
that do not allow sampling are not practical when PDP is used t o prove possession of large amounts
of data. Our experiments show that such schemes also impose a signiﬁcant I/O and computational
18

burden on the server.
7 Acknowledgments
This work was supported in part by NSF awards CCF-0238305 and IIS-0456027 and by the
IBM Corporation. We thank Gene Tsudik, Susan Hohenberger, R oberto Di Pietro, Luigi Mancini,
R˘ azvan Mus˘ aloiu-E., Seny Kamara, and Brent Waters for their insightful comments.
References
[1] M. Abe and S. Fehr. Perfect NIZK with adaptive soundness. In Proc. of Theory of Cryptography
Conference (TCC ’07) , 2007. Full version available on Cryptology ePrint Archive , Report
2006/423.
[2] J. Aspnes, J. Feigenbaum, A. Yampolskiy, and S. Zhong. To wards a theory of data entangle-
ment. In Proc. of Euro. Symp. on Research in Computer Security , 2004.
[3] G. Ateniese, R. Burns, R. Curtmola, J. Herring, L. Kissne r, Z. Peterson, and D. Song. Provable
data possession at untrusted stores. In Proc. of the 14th ACM Conference on Computer and
Communications Security (CCS ’07) . ACM Press, October 2007.
[4] M. Bellare, J. Garay, and T. Rabin. Fast batch veriﬁcatio n for modular exponentiation and
digital signatures. In Proc. of EUROCRYPT ’98 , LNCS, pages 236–250, 1998.
[5] M. Bellare and O. Goldreich. On deﬁning proofs of knowled ge. In Proc. of CRYPTO ’92 ,
volume 740 of LNCS, pages 390–420, 1992.
[6] M. Bellare and A. Palacio. The knowledge-of-exponent as sumptions and 3-round zero-
knowledge protocols. In Proc. of CRYPTO ’04 , Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages
273–289. Springer, 2004.
[7] M. Bellare and A. Palacio. Towards plaintext-aware publ ic-key encryption without random
oracles. In Proc. of ASIACRYPT ’04 , volume 3329 of LNCS, pages 48–62. Springer, 2004.
[8] M. Bellare and P. Rogaway. Random oracles are practical: A paradigm for designing eﬃcient
protocols. In First Conference on Computer and Communications Security , pages 62–73. ACM,
1993.
[9] M. Bellare and P. Rogaway. The exact security of digital s ignatures - How to sign with RSA
and Rabin. In EUROCRYPT, pages 399–416, 1996.
[10] M. Bellare and P. Rogaway. PSS: Provably secure encodin g method for digital signatures.
IEEE P1363a: Provably secure signatures, 1998. http://grouper.ieee.org/groups/1363/
P1363a/PSSigs.html.
[11] J. Black and P. Rogaway. Ciphers with arbitrary ﬁnite do mains. In Proc. of CT-RSA , volume
2271 of LNCS, pages 114–130. Springer-Verlag, 2002.
[12] M. Blum, W. Evans, P. Gemmell, S. Kannan, and M. Naor. Che cking the correctness of
memories. In Proc. of the FOCS ’95 , 1995.
19

[13] D. Boneh, C. Gentry, B. Lynn, and H. Shacham. Aggregate a nd veriﬁably encrypted signatures
from bilinear maps. In Proc. of EUROCRYPT ’03 , volume 2656 of LNCS, pages 416–432.
Springer, 2003.
[14] I. Damg ˚ ard. Towards practical public key systems secu re against chosen ciphertext attacks.
In J. Feigenbaum, editor, CRYPTO91, volume 576, pages 445–456. Springer, 1992.
[15] A. W. Dent. The Cramer-Shoup encryption scheme is plain text aware in the standard model.
In Proc. of EUROCRYPT ’06 , volume 4004 of LNCS, pages 289–307. Springer, 2006.
[16] A. W. Dent. The hardness of the DHK problem in the generic group model. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2006/156, 2006. http://eprint.iacr.org/2006/156.
[17] Y. Deswarte, J.-J. Quisquater, and A. Saidane. Remote i ntegrity checking. In Proc. of Con-
ference on Integrity and Internal Control in Information Sy stems (IICIS’03), November 2003.
[18] A. Fiat. Batch RSA. In G. Brassard, editor, Proc. CRYPTO 89 , pages 175–185. Springer-
Verlag, 1990. Lecture Notes in Computer Science No. 435.
[19] D. L. G. Filho and P. S. L. M. Baretto. Demonstrating data possession and uncheatable data
transfer. IACR ePrint archive, 2006. Report 2006/150, http://eprint.iacr.org/2006/150.
[20] P. Golle, S. Jarecki, and I. Mironov. Cryptographic pri mitives enforcing communication and
storage complexity. In Financial Cryptography, pages 120–135, 2002.
[21] S. Hada and T. Tanaka. On the existence of 3-round zero-k nowledge protocols. In Proc. of
CRYPTO ’98, volume 1462 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science , pages 408–423. Springer,
1998.
[22] L. Harn. Batch verifying multiple RSA digital signatur es. Electronics Letters, 34(12):1219–
1220, 1998.
[23] R. Hasan, W. Yurcik, and S. Myagmar. The evolution of sto rage server providers: Techniques
and challenges to outsourcing storage. In Proc. of the Workshop on Storage Security and
Survivability, 2005.
[24] R. Johnson, D. Molnar, D. Song, and D. Wagner. Homomorph ic signature schemes. In Proc.
of CT-RSA , volume 2271 of LNCS, pages 244–262. Springer, 2002.
[25] A. Juels and B. S. Kaliski. PORs: Proofs of retrievabili ty for large ﬁles. Cryptology ePrint
archive, June 2007. Report 2007/243.
[26] M. Kallahalla, E. Riedel, R. Swaminathan, Q. Wang, and K . Fu. Plutus: Scalable secure ﬁle
sharing on untrusted storage. In Proc. of F AST, 2003.
[27] H. Krawczyk. HMQV: A high-performance secure Diﬃe-Hel lman protocol. In Proc. of
CRYPTO ’05, volume 3621 of LNCS, pages 546–566. Springer, 2005.
[28] M. N. Krohn, M. J. Freedman, and D. Mazi` eres. On-the-ﬂy veriﬁcation of rateless erasure
codes for eﬃcient content distribution. In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy , 2004.
20

[29] J. Kubiatowicz, D. Bindel, Y. Chen, P. Eaton, D. Geels, R . Gummadi, S. Rhea, H. Weath-
erspoon, W. Weimer, C. Wells, and B. Zhao. Oceanstore: An arc hitecture for global-scale
persistent storage. In Proceedings of ACM ASPLOS ’00 . ACM, November 2000.
[30] J. Li, M. Krohn, D. Mazi` eres, and D. Shasha. Secure untr usted data repository (SUNDR). In
Proceedings of the Symposium on Operating Systems Design an d Implementation , 2004.
[31] U. Maheshwari, R. Vingralek, and W. Shapiro. How to buil d a trusted database system on
untrusted storage. In Proc. of OSDI , 2000.
[32] P. Maniatis, M. Roussopoulos, T. Giuli, D. Rosenthal, M . Baker, and Y. Muliadi. The LOCKSS
peer-to-peer digital preservation system. ACM Transactions on Computing Systems , 23(1):2–
50, 2005.
[33] S. Micali, K. Ohta, and L. Reyzin. Accountable-subgrou p multisignatures: extended abstract.
In Proc of ACM CCS ’01 , pages 245–254, 2001.
[34] G. L. Miller. Riemann’s hypothesis and tests for primal ity. JCSS, 13(3):300–317, 1976.
[35] A. A. Muthitacharoen, R. Morris., T. M. Gil, and B. Chen. Ivy: A read/write peer-to-peer ﬁle
system. In Proceedings of 5th Symposium on Operating Systems Design an d Implementation ,
2002.
[36] E. Mykletun, M. Narasimha, and G. Tsudik. Authenticati on and integrity in outsourced
databases. In Proceedings of NDSS. The Internet Society, 2004.
[37] M. Naor and G. N. Rothblum. The complexity of online memo ry checking. In Proc. of FOCS ,
2005. Full version appears as ePrint Archive Report 2006/09 1.
[38] T. Okamoto. A digital multisignature schema using bije ctive public-key cryptosystems. ACM
Transactions on Computer Systems , 6(4):432–441, 1988.
[39] A. Oprea, M. K. Reiter, and K. Yang. Space-eﬃcient block storage integrity. In Proc. of NDSS
’05, 2005.
[40] T. S. J. Schwarz and E. L. Miller. Store, forget, and chec k: Using algebraic signatures to check
remotely administered storage. In Proceedings of ICDCS ’06 . IEEE Computer Society, 2006.
[41] F. Sebe, A. Martinez-Balleste, Y. Deswarte, J. Domingo -Ferrer, and J.-J. Quisquater. Time-
bounded remote ﬁle integrity checking. Technical Report 04 429, LAAS, July 2004.
[42] M. Shah, M. Baker, J. C. Mogul, and R. Swaminathan. Audit ing to keep online storage services
honest. In Proc. of HotOS XI . Usenix, 2007.
[43] A. Shamir. On the generation of cryptographically stro ng pseudorandom sequences. ACM
Trans. Comput. Syst. , 1(1):38–44, 1983.
[44] D. Thompson and J. Best. The future of magnetic data stor age technology. IBM Journal
Research and Development , 44(3):311–319, May 2000.
[45] M. Waldman and D. Mazi` eres. Tangler: a censorship-res istant publishing system based on
document entanglements. In Proc. of CCS , 2001.
21

[46] G. Yamamoto, E. Fujisaki, and M. Abe. An eﬃciently-veri ﬁable zero-knowledge argument for
proofs of knowledge. Technical Report ISEC2005-48, IEICE, July 2005.
[47] G. Yamamoto, S. Oda, and K. Aoki. Fast integrity for larg e data. In Proc. of SPEED ’07 ,
2007.
[48] A. Y. Yumerefendi and J. Chase. Strong accountability f or network storage. In Proc. of F AST,
2007.
A Proof of Theorem 4.3
Under the KEA1-r assumption, we reduce the security of our S-PDP scheme to the security of
the RSA problem and the security of integer factoring. We mod el both hash functions h(·) and
H(·) as random oracles. However we do not use the ”full power” of t he random oracle model and
indeed a scheme that does not use any random oracles can be eas ily derived from ours but at the
cost of increased computational cost and bandwidth require ment.
We assume there exists an adversary B that wins the Data Possession Game on a challenge
picked byA and show that A will be able to extract the blocks determined by the challeng e. If
B can break the data possession guarantee of the S-PDP scheme, we show how to construct an
adversaryA that usesB in order to either break RSA or factor the product of two large primes.
For the RSA problem, A is given ( N,e,y ), with y R← Z∗
N , and needs to ﬁnd a value b ≡
y1/e modN . We assume w.l.o.g. that e is a large prime number. A will play the role of the
challenger in the Data Possession Game and will interact wit hB.
We ﬁrst look at the case when in GenProof and CheckProof all the coeﬃcients a1,...,a c are equal
to 1. This corresponds to the case where the server proves it p ossesses the sum of the requested
blocks. We then generalize the proof to the case where the coe ﬃcients are random and pairwise
distinct, which corresponds to the case where the server pro ves it possesses each individual block.
A simulates a PDP environment for B as follows:
Setup:A computesg =y2 modN , sets the public key pk = ( N,g ) and sends pk to B.A generates
the secret value v R←{ 0, 1}κ.
Query: B makes tagging queries adaptively: B selects a block m1 and is also allowed to select
an index i1. B sends m1 and i1 toA. A generates Ti1,m1 and sends it back to B. B continues to
queryA for the tags Ti2,m2,..., Tin,mn on the blocks m2,...,m n and indices i1,...,i n of its choice.
The only restriction is that B cannot make tagging queries for two diﬀerent blocks using th e same
index.
A answersB’s tagging oracle queries as follows:
whenA receives a tagging query for a block m and index i, with 1 ≤i≤n:
• if a previous tagging query has been made for the same m andi, thenA retrieves the recorded
tuple (m,i,r i, Wi) and returns Ti,m =ri.
• else,A picksri
R←QRN , computes Wi =v||i, records the tuple (m,i,r i, Wi) and returns Ti,m =ri.
whenA receives a hash query for a value x:
• if a previous hash query was made for a value x, then A retrieves the recorded tuple ( x,ω x)
and returns h(x) = ωx.
• elseA picksω R←QRN , records the tuple ( x,ω x) and returns h(x) = ωx.
22

A’s view of the hash values h(Wi), for 1 ≤i≤n, is: h(Wi) = re
i·g−mi modN . Clearly B could
query the random oracle on values Wi with only negligible probability. Notice that in the random
oracle model h(Wi) is simply a PRF under the secret v.
Challenge: A generates the challenge chal = (gs,i 1,...,i c), where gs = gs modN , s R← Z∗
N and
i1,...,i c are the indices of the blocks for which A requests proof of possession (with 1 ≤ ij≤ n,
1≤j≤c, 1≤c≤n).A sends chal toB.
F orge:B generates a proofV = (T,ρ ) about the blocks mi1,...,m ic determined byi1,...,i c, where
T = T{i1,...,ic},mi1 +...+mic . Note that V is a valid proof that passes CheckProof(pk, sk, chal,V). B
returnsV toA andA checks the validity of V. Let M =mi1 +... +mic.
AsH is a random oracle, with overwhelming probability we can ext ract the pre-image value ρp
thatB utilized to calculate ρ. (By the deﬁnition of a random oracle, B can guess a valid value of
ρ with only negligible probability.)
A has givenB both g,g s andB has implicitly returned τ = Te
∏ c
j=1h(Wij ),ρ p by returning T,ρ .
Because τ s = ρp, by KEA-1r, A can utilize the extractor ¯B to extract a value M ∗ such that
gM ∗
=τ (if−gM ∗
=τ thenA sets T =−T modN ).
If M ∗ =M , then A was able to successfully extract the correct message M . We analyze next
the case when M ∗⁄=M . Note that M ∗ is the “full-domain” value utilized by this calculation. (I f
the extractor ¯B is able to extract a value M ′⁄=M ∗ such that gM ′
=gM ∗
modN , this will allow to
compute a multiple of φ(N ), from which the factorization of N can be eﬃciently computed [34].)
Fromτ =gM ∗
we get Te = (∏ c
j=1h(Wij ))·gM ∗
, where clearly gM ∗
⁄=gM , and thus:
T =




c∏
j=1
h(Wij )

·gM ∗


d
=




c∏
j=1
(re
ij·g−mij )

·gM ∗


d
=


c∏
j=1
rij

·
(
gM ∗−M
) d
A computes:
z = T∏ c
j=1rij
=
(
gM ∗−M
) d
We have ze = gM ∗−M = y2(M ∗−M ). Notice that gcd( e, 2(M ∗−M )) = 1 with overwhelming
probability (this holds because e is a large prime number unknown to B). Applying Shamir’s
“trick” [43], A uses the extended Euclidian algorithm to eﬃciently compute integersu and v such
that u·e +v·2(M ∗−M ) = 1 and outputs y1/e =yuzv.
Note that the interactions of A withB are indistinguishable to B from interactions with an
honest challenger in the Data Possession Game, as A chooses all parameters according to our
protocol (and in particular note that B does not learn the value e by interacting with A).
23

The proof generalizes to the case where the coeﬃcients a1,...,a c are random and pairwise
distinct. Indeed, in this case it is enough to apply the same s imulation shown above and in addition
to notice that at the end of the simulation A will be able to extract ¯M =a1mi1 +... +acmic. We
now have to show that our protocol constitutes a proof of know ledge of the blocks mi1,...,m ic
when a1,...,a c are pairwise distinct. We show that a knowledge extractor E may extract the ﬁle
blocksmi1,...,m ic. Note that each time E runs the PDP protocol, he obtains a linear equation of
the form ¯M =a1mi1 +... +acmic. By choosing independent coeﬃcients a1,...,a c inc executions
of the protocol on the same blocks mi1,...,m ic,E obtains c independent linear equations in the
variablesmi1,...,m ic.E may then solve these equations to obtain the ﬁle blocks mi1,...,m ic.
Proof of Theorem 4.4 The proof of Theorem 4.4 follows directly from the proof of Th eorem 4.3.
The main diﬀerence is that we do not need to use the KEA1-r extr actor since the message is given
toA directly. In addition, we allow the adversary B to select only messages mi of a certain size and
to check the validity of tags after each tag query. When B makes a tagging query for a block mi
and index i, with 1 ≤i≤n, thenA picksri
R←QRN , computes Wi =wv(i) and returns ( Ti,m, Wi),
where Ti,m =ri.B may verify the tag by checking whether the relation ( Ti,mi)e =h(Wi)·gmi holds.
Indeed, whenB makes a hash query for a value Wi,A will return h(Wi) = re
i·g−mi modN .
Now, ifB releases a sum M ∗ that passes CheckProof such that M ∗⁄=M , then we can clearly
solve the RSA instance since gcd(e, 2(M ∗−M )) = 1 given that e is a prime bigger than |M ∗−M|
(both|M ∗| and|M| are smaller than λ/2 and e>λ ).
B Implemented PDP Schemes
As a basis of comparison, we have implemented the following t wo PDP schemes in addition to
our E-PDP scheme:
Basic RSA-based PDP Scheme ( B-PDP)[17, 19]. LetN be an RSA modulus and let g∈ Z∗
N .
Setup: C storesa =gF modN . C sends F to S.
Challenge:
1. C generates a random value r R← Z∗
n and sends gr to S.
2. S computes b = (gr)F modN and sends b to C.
3. C computes ar and checks if b =ar modN .
Merkle Hash T ree-based Storage Enforcing Scheme ( MHT-SC)[20]. Let ψ be a one-way
length-increasing transformation and let h be a cryptographic hash function. In a binary tree, we
denote by PATH (i) the set of nodes on the path between the root of the tree and th e i-th leaf.
Setup: C applies the transformation ψ on the ﬁle F and obtains the expanded ﬁle F′ = ψ(F). C
stores hroot as the root of the Merkle hash tree 4 which is computed using h on the blocks of
F′.
Challenge:
4Merkle hash trees compute a parent node by applying a hash fun ction on the concatenation of its children nodes.
24

1. C randomly picks the index i of a block F′
i of the expanded ﬁle F′ and sends i to S.
2. Let Hi be the set of hashes corresponding to the nodes that “hang” oﬀ PATH (i) in the
Merkle hash tree determined by F′. S sends Hi and F′
i back to C.
3. C uses Hi and F′
i to recompute the root of the tree and compares this value with the stored
value for hroot.
25