arXiv:2301.07045v2  [cs.CR]  24 Jan 2023
Analysis and Improvements of the Sender Keys
Protocol for Group Messaging
David Balbás
IMDEA Software Institute,
Universidad Politécnica de Madrid
Spain
david.balbas@imdea.org
Daniel Collins
EPFL
Switzerland
daniel.collins@epﬂ.ch
Phillip Gajland
Max Planck Institute for Security & Privacy,
Ruhr-University Bochum
Germany
phillip.gajland@mpi-sp.org
Abstract—Messaging between two parties and in the group
setting has enjoyed widespread attention both in practice, and,
more recently, from the cryptographic community. One of the
main challenges in the area is constructing secure (end-to-
end encrypted) and efﬁcient messaging protocols for group
conversations. The popular messaging applications WhatsA pp
and Signal utilise a protocol in which, instead of sharing a
single group key, members have individual sender keys, which are
shared with all other group members. The Sender Keys protoco l
is claimed to offer forward security guarantees. However , d espite
its broad adoption in practice, it has never been studied for mally
in the cryptographic literature.
In this paper we present the ﬁrst analysis of the Sender Keys
protocol along with some prospective improvements. To this end,
we introduce a new cryptographic primitive, develop a game-
based security model, present a security analysis in the pas sive
and active settings, and propose several improvements to th e
protocol.
Index Terms —Secure Messaging, Group Messaging, Signal,
WhatsApp, Sender Keys.
I. I NTRODUCTION
Messaging applications such as WhatsApp, Facebook Mes-
senger, Signal and Telegram have enjoyed widespread adop-
tion and form an integral part of communications for billion s
of people. All of the aforementioned applications rely, to a
varying degree, on cryptography to provide diverse forms of
authenticity and secrecy.
Among end-to-end encrypted messaging solutions (this ex-
cludes Telegram and Facebook Messenger by default, among
others), there exist diverse cryptographic solutions. For two-
party messaging, Signal’s Double Ratchet Protocol [ 1] is the
most popular choice in practice, and many solutions also exi st
in the cryptographic literature [ 2], [ 3], [ 4], [ 5], [ 6]. For group
messaging, the naive solution, as used by Signal Messenger
for small groups, of adopting Double Ratchet sessions among
every pair of group members does not scale well. Thus, recent
work such as the Messaging Layer Security (MLS) standard-
ization effort [ 7] aims to construct secure group messaging
protocols where the complexity of group operations (adding
and removing members, updating key material) is sublinear
in the group size [ 8], [ 9], [ 10], [ 11], [ 12].
Nevertheless, the popular messaging applications Whats-
App and Signal (for large groups) use a protocol for group
messaging [ 13], [ 14] that does not involve sharing a unique
group key that evolves over time. This differs from MLS, and
from the group key agreement abstraction followed there [ 9],
[10], [ 11]. This protocol, called Sender Keys, has not been
formally studied in the literature despite its widespread a dop-
tion.
A. Secure Group Messaging
Two standard security notions prevail in the literature bot h
for two-party and group messaging. The ﬁrst is forward
security (FS), which protects the conﬁdentiality of past mes-
sages in the event of a key exposure and can be achieved
using just symmetric cryptography (for example by iterativ ely
hashing symmetric keys). The second is post-compromise
security (PCS), which ensures that security can be restored
after a key exposure in certain adversarial settings [ 15],
typically when the adversary is passive for some period of
time. FS- and PCS-oriented key evolution mechanisms are
commonly known as ratcheting.
Both properties apply to the conﬁdentiality and authentici ty
of sent messages and can be captured formally in a security
game. There exist different formalisations of security in t he
literature, but most of them model an adversarial Delivery
Service (DS), the entity responsible for delivering messag es
between participants via the communication channel. The
adversary (modelling the DS) can act as an eavesdropper (wit h
extended yet limited capabilities) as in [ 9], as a semi-active
adversary which can schedule messages arbitrarily [ 10], or
as an active adversary that can inject messages [ 11], [ 16].
In many protocols, including Sender Keys and MLS, the DS
relies mainly on some centralized infrastructure (the central
server hereafter).
Some messaging protocols also require additional infra-
structure to deal with user authentication or security. Thi s
may include Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), or, in the
case of Sender Keys, secure two-party messaging channels
established between each pair of users. Achieving security in
multiple groups simultaneously is outside the scope of this
work, and requires additional precautions detailed in [ 17].
B. Sender Keys
In a Sender Keys group G, every user ID∈ G owns a
so-called sender key which is shared with all group members.
A sender key is a tuple send-k = ( spk, ck), where spk is a
public signature key (with a private counterpart ssk), and ck is
a symmetric chain key. Every time a user ID sends a message
m to the group, ID encrypts m using a message key mk
that is deterministically derived from its chain key ck. Upon
message reception, group members also derive mk to decrypt

the message. Messages are authenticated by appending the
sender’s signature.
Forward security is provided by using a fresh message key
for every message; every time a message is sent, the chain key
is hashed forward using a key derivation function. In other
words, chain keys are symmetrically ratcheted.
The protocol also requires that there exist conﬁdential
and authenticated two-party communication channels betwe en
every pair of users. These are used for sharing sender keys in
the event of parties being added or removed from the group.
C. Contributions
The main scientiﬁc contributions of our paper are the
following:
• We introduce a new cryptographic primitive, Group Mes-
senger ( GM), which is suitable for messaging protocols
like Sender Keys that are not necessarily based on group
key agreement.
• We formally describe Sender Keys, based on a code
analysis of Signal’s source code [ 14], and WhatsApp’s
security white paper [ 13].
• We present a security model for (single-group) Group
Messenger. We do so via a security game that considers
an active adversary who can interact with several oracles.
The game is parametrised by a cleanness predicate that
captures forward-secure group messaging.
• We carry out a security analysis for passive and active ad-
versaries and detail prospective ﬁxes and improvements
to the Sender Keys protocol.
We note that this is a preliminary and shortened version of
our work.
II. P RIMITIVE SYNTAX
Unless otherwise stated, all algorithms are probabilistic ,
and (x1, . . . ) $←A (y1, . . . ) is used to denote that A returns
(x1, . . . ) when run on input (y1, . . . ). Blank values are rep-
resented by⊥ . We denote the security parameter by λ and its
unary representation by 1λ . We also deﬁne the state γ of a user
ID as the data required by ID for protocol execution, including
message records, group-related variables, and cryptograp hic
material.
We introduce a cryptographic primitive that we call Group
Messenger GM := ( Init, Send, Recv, Exec, Proc), similar to
other group messaging abstractions such as Continuous Grou p
Key Agreement (CGKA) [ 9]. In contrast to CGKA, our
primitive does not model key agreement (as this does not
neatly capture the Sender Keys protocol), but rather sendin g
and receiving messages. The syntax is as follows.
• γ $← Init(1λ , ID): Given the security parameter 1λ and a
user identity ID, the probabilistic initialisation algorithm
returns an initial state γ.
• (C, γ′) $← Send(m, γ ): Given a message m, and a state
γ, the probabilistic sending algorithm returns a ciphertext
C and a new state γ′.
• (m, γ′) ← Recv(C, γ ): Given a ciphertext C, and a
state γ, the deterministic receiving algorithm returns a
message m and a new state γ′.
• (C, γ′) $← Exec(cmd, IDs , γ ): Given a command
cmd∈{ crt, add, rem}, a list of user identities IDs ,
and a state γ, the probabilistic execution algorithm
returns a ciphertext C and a new state γ′.
• γ′← Proc(C, γ ): Given a ciphertext C, and a state γ,
the deterministic processing algorithm returns a new state
γ′.
Note that there are separate algorithms for sending / re-
ceiving application messages and for executing / processin g
changes to the group. Furthermore, should two-party protoc ols
be required under the hood to implement the group primitive
(this is not the case for CGKAs such as TreeKEM [ 9]), then
these are outside the scope of this deﬁnition.
III. P ROTOCOL DESCRIPTION
In this section, we introduce a formal description of the
Sender Keys protocol in accordance with our Group Messen-
ger syntax.
A. Protocol Setup
1) Central server: The Delivery Service (DS) relies on a
central server which provides total ordering of messages an d
authenticates users initially (i.e. it acts as a PKI). In pra ctice,
the DS is also responsible for managing two-party channels.
2) Two-party channels: The protocol assumes that there
exist authenticated and secure two-party communication ch an-
nels (for example using Signal’s Double Ratchet protocol [ 1]
as done in WhatsApp [ 13]) between every pair of protocol
users. This assumption can be realized via the Delivery Ser-
vice and asynchronous, PKI-aided key-exchange mechanisms
such as X3DH [ 18].
3) Primitives: The protocol uses standardised [ 19], [ 20]
underlying cryptographic primitives:
• Two different Key Derivation Functions (KDF) H1, H 2 :
{0, 1}λ → {0, 1}λ . These are used to derive message
keys mk and chain keys ck, respectively.
• A symmetric encryption scheme (Enc, Dec).
• A digital signature scheme (Gen, Sig, Ver).
In Signal’s implementation of Sender Keys [ 14], the
KDFs are instantiated as H1(m) := HMAC(0x01, m ) and
H2(m) := HMAC(0x02, m ). We note that in Signal’s two-
party sessions signatures are not used. Instead, messages a re
authenticated by computing a MAC based on a function of
the message key.
In WhatsApp [ 13], the HMAC used for the KDF
is HMAC-SHA256, the symmetric encryption scheme is
AES-256 in CBC mode, and the signature scheme is ECDSA
with Curve25519.
B. State
The state γ of a user ID contains a sender key send-k :=
(spk, ck), where spk denotes the the signature public key and
ck the chain key, as well as a secret signature key ssk, each
belonging to ID. The state also maintains a list of current
group members G. Additionally, for each user ID ∈ G
the sender key send-kID, a list of skipped message keys
{mki
ID, . . . }, used for out-of-order delivery, and the counter i
are stored. If ID leaks its state, we say that it suffered a state
compromise.

C. Algorithms
We describe the Sender Keys protocol according to our
Group Messenger primitive deﬁned in Section II. The descrip-
tion follows Signal’s reference implementation [ 14] regarding
sender key ratcheting as well as message encryption and
decryption. The details of the Exec and Recv algorithms are in-
ferred from [ 13], but we cannot assert that our interpretation is
entirely faithful to WhatsApp’s implementation. A simpliﬁ ed
example of a 3-message conversation is shown in Figure 1.
1) State initialization: The Init algorithm initializes the
state variables of users; in practice this is done at install time.
2) Group creation: The creation of a group is carried out
via the Exec(crt, G, γ ) algorithm which takes a list of pro-
spective members G :={ID1, . . . , ID|G|} as input. All parties
are assumed to have pre-established two-party communicati on
sessions. The group creator γ. ME generates a chain key ck $←
{0, 1}λ and a signature key pair (γ. spk, γ. ssk) $← Gen(1λ ).
Then, it sends its sender key γ. send-k = ( γ. spk, ck) to each
ID∈ G individually via their secure two-party channel.
3) Message sending: To send the ith message mi, a user
γ. ME calls the Send(mi, γ ) algorithm which does the follow-
ing:
• Derive a new message key mk from the symmetric part of
its sender key (i.e. the chain key) as mki
ME← H1(cki
ME).
• Encrypt the message mi as ci
$← Enc(mki
ME, m i).
• Ratchet the chain key ck1 as cki+1
ME ← H2(cki
ME).
• Jointly sign the ciphertext ci, the message index i and
the sender’s identity ME as σi
$← Sig(ssk, (ci, i, ME))
• Send C := ( ci, i, ME, σ i) to all group members via the
DS.
If γ. send-k = ⊥ , then γ. ME must ﬁrst generate a fresh
sender key and distribute it as in the group creation. This
occurs every time a member sends their ﬁrst message after
entering the group or after a member removal. We emphasise
that ciphertexts are not sent over the preexisting two-part y
channels that are used to communicate sender keys, but rathe r
over the network (i.e., via the Delivery Service) itself.
4) Message reception: Upon reception of a message C =
(ci, i, ID, σ i), the receiver calls Recv(C, γ ). First, Recv veri-
ﬁes ID and the signature as Ver(send-k[ID]. spk, σ i, (ci, i, ID))
(note that if send-k[ID] = ⊥ , the receiver must wait until a
new sender key is sent by ID). If the check passes, then the
algorithm proceeds as follows:
• If send-k[ID]. ck is at iteration i:
derive mki← H1(send-k[ID. ck]),
decrypt ci as mi← Dec(mki, c i) and erase mki,
and refresh send-k[ID. ck]← H2(send-k[ID. ck]).
• If send-k[ID]. ck is at iteration j < i , refresh the chain
key i− j times as send-k[ID. ck]← H2(send-k[ID. ck])
while storing message keys mkj, . . . mki−1 (up to Nmax
keys). Then, obtain mki, decrypt ci, and erase mki.
• If send-k[ID]. ck is at iteration j > i , search for a
stored mkj, attempt to decrypt ci, and erase mkj. If
unsuccessful, output⊥ .
1Note that this practice is safer (better FS) than ﬁrst evolvi ng the chain key
and then deriving a message key, since it allows for the immed iate deletion
of the chain key used to derive the message key.
5) Membership changes: To add a new user ID to the
group, a member calls Exec(add,{ID}, γ ). This produces a
notiﬁcation message T sent to all group members including
ID. As mentioned earlier, ID only generates and sends its own
sender key when they send their ﬁrst message. ID will receive
the sender key of every other member ID′ when they speak
in the group for the ﬁrst time after ID joins. This is sent over
the two-party channel of ID and ID′.
To remove a user ID from the group, a member calls
Exec(rem,{ID}, γ ) and sends the notiﬁcation T to all mem-
bers.
6) Message processing: Group changes are processed via
Proc(T, γ ). If a user ID is added, γ. ME simply updates the
list of group members γ.G , and sends ID his own sender key
via the two-party channel when he speaks again in the group.
If ID is removed, γ. ME deletes all sender keys, including
his own. In this scenario, the group “starts over", namely al l
members must generate and send a new sender key (i.e. a new
signature key pair and symmetric key) to the members.
A : ( cki
A, sskA, spkA, B : ( ckj
B , sskB , spkB ,
ckj
B , spkB ) cki
A, spkA)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A sends mi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
mki
A← H1(cki
A)
ci $← Enc(mki
A, m i) (ci, i, A, σ i) assert Ver(spkA, σ i) = 1
cki+1
A ← H2(cki
A) mki
A← H1(cki
A)
σ i $← Sig(sskA, (ci, i, A )) mi← Dec(mki
A, c i)
cki+1
A ← H2(cki
A)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A sends mi+1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
mki+1
A ← H1(cki+1
A )
ci+1 $← Enc(mki+1
A , m i+1)
(ci+ 1, i +1,
A, σ i+ 1) assert Ver(spkA, σ i+ 1) = 1
cki+2
A ← H2(cki+1
A ) mki+1
A ← H1(ckA)
σ i+1 $← Sig(sskA,
(ci+1, i +1, A )) mi+1← Dec(mki+1
A , c i+1)
cki+2
A ← H2(cki+1
A )
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . B sends mj . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
mkj
B← H1(ckj
B )
assert Ver(spkB , σ j ) = 1 (cj, j, B, σ j ) cj $← Enc(mkj
B , m j )
mkj
B← H1(ckj
B ) ckj+1
B ← H2(ckj
B )
mj← Dec(mkj
B , c j ) σ j $← Sig(sskB , (cj, j, B ))
ckj+1
B ← H2(ckj
B )
Figure 1: Sending/receiving messages between two group mem bers for a three-message
(in-order) conversation. Ephemeral message keys mk are deleted immediately after use.
A ’s initial sender key is (cki
A, sskA) and B’s initial sender key is (ckj
B , sskB ).
IV. S ECURITY MODEL
We propose a model of security for our Group Messenger
primitive that captures the security suitable for an authen -
ticated and forward-secure group messaging scheme. We

introduce a game played between a probabilistic polynomial
time ( PPT) adversaryA and a challenger.
A. Game Description
At the beginning of the game, a bit b is uniformly sampled
which parametrises the game. To win, the adversary either
has to guess b or carry out a successful forgery in a clean
protocol run. The game is parameterised by a cleanness
predicate (sometimes safety [ 9] predicate) that captures the
exact security of the protocol, namely the authenticity and
conﬁdentiality of group messages.
In this work, we assume that the two-party communication
channels used for sending sender keys are perfectly secure;
i.e., always conﬁdential and authenticated. This assumpti on is
not easily met in practice, but allows us to capture the essen ce
of Sender Keys alone.
For simplicity, the game starts with a pre-established grou p
G where every member ID ∈ G already has everyone’s
honestly generated sender key. Then, A can interact with
several oracles:
• OChallenge(ID, m 0, m 1). The adversary receives a cipher-
text Cb corresponding to ID sending mb, i.e., the output
of Cb← Send(mb, γ ID).
• OSend(ID, m ). ID sends an application-level message m
using the Send algorithm, producing a ciphertext C.
• OReceive(ID, ID′, C ). ID calls Recv on an application-
level ciphertext C claimed to be from user ID′. If C has
not been generated honestly via the OSend(ID, m ) oracle
and receiving is successful, b is leaked to A.
• OAdd(ID, ID′). ID adds ID′ to the group via Exec, gener-
ating a control message T .
• ORemove(ID, ID′). ID removes ID′ from the group via
Exec, generating a control message T .
• ODeliver(ID, T ). A control message T is delivered to ID
who calls Proc.
• OExpose(ID). The current state γ of ID leaks toA.
• OExpMK(ID, i ). The i-th message key mk of ID leaks toA.
No message encrypted under this key can be challenged
(neither before nor after exposure).
After q oracle queries, the adversary outputs a guess b′
of b. Note that A can win the game either by guessing
a challenge correctly or by injecting a forged message via
OReceive successfully.
B. Cleanness
For the particular case of Sender Keys, we describe the
cleanness predicate which deﬁnes the following conditions
for a valid game:
• We deﬁne the event refresh(ID) that occurs when: 1)
some member has been removed from the group, and
2) member ID processes this change (note the lack of a
PCS update option).
• After exposing any user ID, all adversarial calls to
OChallenge on future messages are disallowed until
refresh(ID) occurs for every ID∈ G. This extends to
all challenges on skipped messages (out-of-order) that
ID has not received at exposure time.
• After exposing a speciﬁc user ID′,A cannot win the
game by impersonating ID′ viaOReceive(ID, ID′, C ) for a
forgery C until a new refresh(ID) event occurs.
We remark that our security notion is adaptive insofar as use rs
can adaptively expose users. Under our cleanness predicate ,
we consider limited injection queries, i.e., partially act ive
security. Our modelling further assumes that the underlyin g
two-party channels are perfectly secure, and thus we leave
it as important future work to examine security where, e.g.,
state exposures on the underlying channels are allowed and
the consequent security guarantees are captured.
V. S ECURITY
We claim that Sender Keys, as described in Section III,
is secure with respect to our security model. However, the
security captured by our cleanness predicate is sub-optima l,
in the sense that forward security can be strengthened for
authentication, as we introduce in Section V -C. Here we
introduce a security analysis, but leave a security proof an d
more accurate modelling for future work.
A. Passive adversaries
For a (semi-)passive adversary which does not attempt to
inject messages via OReceive (but can still schedule messages
arbitrarily), we claim that Sender Keys is secure with respe ct
to the cleanness predicate, given that the symmetric encryp tion
scheme is IND-CP A secure. Towards proving this:
• If the KDF is a one-way function, message keys mki
can be exposed independently; the compromise of a
message key never affects the conﬁdentiality of other
keys or messages. Hence, giving adversarial access to
OExpMK(ID, i ) does not impact the cleanness predicate.
• Also assuming one-wayness of the KDF, forward secrecy
holds trivially except for out-of-order messages.
• Assuming that the two-party channels are secure, all
users recover from state exposure via OExpose(ID) after a
removal is made effective. Note that, outside our model,
security of the two-party channels may also degrade after
a state exposure, leaving room for further attacks.
B. Single- vs multi-key
In a Sender Keys group, each user is associated with a
different symmetric key and thus the state comprises O(n)
secret material at all times. Since users encrypt and then ha sh
forward using their own key when sending each message,
users can safely send messages concurrently and with some
inter-member message reordering.
For large groups, however, this scaling behaviour may
represent a bottleneck. Consequently, one can envision tra de-
offs between the amount of concurrency supported and the
amount of secret material required to be stored at a given poi nt
a time. The other extreme of the spectrum would be when all
users maintain the same single symmetric chain. In situations
where users are not expected to concurrently send messages
this allows the secret state size to reduce to O(1) without
degrading security. To deal with concurrency in this settin g,
a central server which rejects all but the ﬁrst (for example)
message and requests re-transmission for other users could
then be employed.
In MLS, a new group secret (chosen by a single user) is
established each epoch, from which point all O(n) application
keys are derived for a given point in time; MLS additionally
supports out-of-order message delivery within a given epoc h.

In Sender Keys, each user chooses their own key; thus, the
security of ciphertexts in the presence of a passive adversa ry is
contingent upon users initially sampling their key with eno ugh
entropy.
C. Active attacks
In an active adversary scenario, the security of Sender
Keys is sub-optimal. In particular, we note two issues. Firs t,
consider a simple group G ={ID1, ID2} and the following
sequence of oracle queries:
• q1 =OSend(ID1, m ) which generates the i-th message C
encrypted under mk and signed under ssk1.
• q2 =OExpose(ID1), where A obtains ssk1, but not mk.
• q3 =OExpMK(ID1, i ), leaking mk.
• A crafts c′ = Enc(m′, mk), signs it under ssk1 and
forges a C′.
• q4 =ODeliver(ID2, C′), as the i-th message.
Note that q4 is a forbidden query by our cleanness predicate in
Section IV -B. q4 attempts to inject a message that corresponds
to key material utilized before the state exposure, hence one
can envision stronger forward security where queries like q4
are allowed. In this case, the Sender Keys adversary would
win the game. We describe how to achieve such stronger
security in Section V -Dby strengthening signatures.
Technically, the query q3 can be replaced by OExpose(IDk),
or even be omitted as the adversary can still create a valid
forgery by altering the metadata in C (such as the sender’s
identity) without crafting a new c′. This attack can occur
naturally if ID2 is ofﬂine when m is ﬁrst sent.
An attack of a similar nature can also occur if the same
signature key is re-used across groups, and they are refresh ed
at different times, as pointed out in [ 17].
The second issue we note is that the implementation
of the Exec algorithm can be problematic if messages are
not authenticated correctly. This led to attacks in the past
such as the burgle into the group or the acknowledgement
forgery attacks in [ 21]. Securing control messages and group
membership changes is possible as introduced in [ 16].
D. Proposed Modiﬁcations and Tweaks
1) Ratcheting signature keys: The attack shown in the
previous section can be mitigated if signature keys are also
ratcheted. A simple ﬁx is to introduce a chain of signature
keys, where an ephemeral signature key is created every time
a message or block of messages is sent.
Let (ssk, spk) be ID’s signature key pair, where spk is part
of its Sender Key. Then, before sending a new message m
to the group, ID can generate a new key pair (ssk′, spk′) $←
Gen(1λ ). Then, ID can do as follows:
• Encrypt the ith message m with the corresponding mk,
c $← Enc(mk, m ).
• Sign C← (c, i, ID, spk′) as σ $← Sig(ssk, C )
• Send the tuple (σ, C ) to the group.
• Replace ssk by ssk′.
Upon reception of a message, ID′ will:
• V erify the signature as Ver(spk, σ, C ) and decrypt the
ciphertext c.
• Replace spk by spk′ in ID’s sender key.
Note that this countermeasure involves a notable overhead
and entropy consumption (although only for the sender), so i t
may not be desirable in all scenarios, or for all sent message s.
Users could also replace their signature keys on-demand or
on a time schedule to trade more post-compromise security
for performance.
2) Randomness manipulation: We note that Sender Keys,
as described in Section III, is susceptible to randomness
exposure and randomness manipulation attacks. Namely, the
adversary does not need to leak a member’s state, but simply
control the randomness used by the device, inhibiting any
form of PCS. Protection against this family of attacks can
be attained at small cost if freshly generated keys are hashe d
with the state or with part of the state, as in [ 2] and the classic
NAXOS trick for authenticated key exchange [ 22].
3) Refresh option for PCS: Post compromise security
(PCS) is generally achieved when introducing fresh random-
ness by establishing new group secrets. In the case of Sender
Keys, it could be beneﬁcial to establish new sender keys
across the group at some intervals, for instance via an update
group operation, as noted in [ 17]. However, if only Alice
updates her sender key, a passive adversary would still be
able to eavesdrop on messages sent by any other group
member. Furthermore, as the sender key is group-speciﬁc, an y
messages sent by Alice in another group are also susceptible
to eavesdropping. We refer the reader to Appendix A of [ 17]
for a more detailed discussion and conclude that the sender
keys is not a suitable approach towards achieving a PCS-
secure group messenger.
VI. C ONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
The Sender Keys protocol is a convenient protocol for
group chats which is simple to implement, achieves a fair
degree of end-to-end forward security, and deals well with
concurrency. Nevertheless, we remark that no security is
gained by employing multiple sender keys with respect to a
single group key given randomness used to generate the keys
is honest (i.e., in our model). Furthermore, forward securi ty
is sub-optimal for message authentication, which can be ﬁxe d
by ratcheting signature keys.
Our results are under the assumption that two-party chan-
nels are secure, which is clearly not the case in practice. Th ere-
fore, more powerful attacks may arise under a more realistic
model where exposure of two-party channels is possible. We
also note that, in the real world, the security of messaging
apps can also be broken in different ways than attacking the
protocol. Additional features such as conversation transc ript
backups and multi-device support highly increase the attac k
surface and should be avoided in applications where securit y
is critical.
Our analysis leaves multiple directions for future work,
such as a rigorous formalization of the security model with
a ﬁne-grained analysis of the two-party channels and user
compromise, more precise cleanness predicates, and especi ally
concrete security reductions.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This work has received funding from the European Re-
search Council (ERC) under the European Union’s Horizon

2020 research and innovation program under project PICO-
CRYPT (grant agreement No. 101001283), and by a grant
from Nomadic Labs and the Tezos foundation. The last author
was supported by DFG under Germany’s Excellence Strategy
- EXC 2092 CASA - 390781972. We are grateful to the
reviewers of RECSI 2022 for their helpful comments on
earlier versions of this work.
REFERENCES
[1] M. Marlinspike and T. Perrin, “The double
ratchet algorithm,” 2016. [Online]. Available:
https://signal.org/docs/speciﬁcations/doubleratchet /doubleratchet.pdf 1,
2
[2] J. Jaeger and I. Stepanovs, “Optimal channel security ag ainst ﬁne-
grained state compromise: The safety of messaging,” in Advances in
Cryptology – CRYPTO 2018, Part I , ser. Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, H. Shacham and A. Boldyreva, Eds., vol. 10991. Sant a
Barbara, CA, USA: Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, Aug. 19–2 3, 2018,
pp. 33–62. 1, 5
[3] B. Poettering and P . Rösler, “Asynchronous ratcheted ke y
exchange,” Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2018/296, 20 18,
https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/296. 1
[4] F. B. Durak and S. V audenay, “Bidirectional asynchronou s ratcheted key
agreement with linear complexity,” in IWSEC 19: 14th International
W orkshop on Security, Advances in Information and Computer Security,
ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, N. Attrapadung and T . Y agi,
Eds., vol. 11689. Tokyo, Japan: Springer, Heidelberg, Germ any,
Aug. 28–30, 2019, pp. 343–362. 1
[5] J. Alwen, S. Coretti, and Y . Dodis, “The double ratchet: S ecurity notions,
proofs, and modularization for the Signal protocol,” in Advances in
Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2019, Part I , ser. Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, Y . Ishai and V . Rijmen, Eds., vol. 11476. Darmstadt, Germany:
Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, May 19–23, 2019, pp. 129–15 8. 1
[6] F. Balli, P . Rösler, and S. V audenay, “Determining the co re primitive
for optimally secure ratcheting,” in Advances in Cryptology – ASIAC-
RYPT 2020, Part III , ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, S. Moriai
and H. Wang, Eds., vol. 12493. Daejeon, South Korea: Springe r,
Heidelberg, Germany, Dec. 7–11, 2020, pp. 621–650. 1
[7] R. Barnes, B. Beurdouche, R. Robert, J. Millican, E. Omar a,
and K. Cohn-Gordon, “The Messaging Layer Security (MLS)
Protocol,” Internet Engineering Task Force, Internet-Dra ft draft-ietf-
mls-protocol-14, May 2022, work in Progress. [Online]. Ava ilable:
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-mls-protocol-14 1
[8] K. Bhargavan, R. Barnes, and E. Rescorla, “TreeKEM: Asyn chronous
Decentralized Key Management for Large Dynamic Groups A pro tocol
proposal for Messaging Layer Security (MLS),” Inria Paris, Research
Report, May 2018. [Online]. Available: https://hal.inria.fr/hal-02425247
1
[9] J. Alwen, S. Coretti, Y . Dodis, and Y . Tselekounis, “Secu rity analysis
and improvements for the IETF MLS standard for group messagi ng,” in
Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2020, Part I , ser. Lecture Notes in
Computer Science, D. Micciancio and T. Ristenpart, Eds., vo l. 12170.
Santa Barbara, CA, USA: Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, Aug . 17–21,
2020, pp. 248–277. 1, 2, 4
[10] K. Klein, G. Pascual-Perez, M. Walter, C. Kamath, M. Cap retto,
M. Cueto, I. Markov, M. Y eo, J. Alwen, and K. Pietrzak, “Keep t he dirt:
Tainted TreeKEM, adaptively and actively secure continuou s group key
agreement,” in 2021 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy . San
Francisco, CA, USA: IEEE Computer Society Press, May 24–27, 2021,
pp. 268–284. 1
[11] J. Alwen, S. Coretti, D. Jost, and M. Mularczyk, “Contin uous group
key agreement with active security,” in TCC 2020: 18th Theory of
Cryptography Conference, Part II , ser. Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, R. Pass and K. Pietrzak, Eds., vol. 12551. Durham, N C,
USA: Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, Nov. 16–19, 2020, pp. 2 61–290.
1
[12] J. Alwen, S. Coretti, Y . Dodis, and Y . Tselekounis, “Mod ular design
of secure group messaging protocols and the security of MLS, ” in
ACM CCS 2021: 28th Conference on Computer and Communication s
Security, G. Vigna and E. Shi, Eds. Virtual Event, Republic of Korea:
ACM Press, Nov. 15–19, 2021, pp. 1463–1483. 1
[13] WhatsApp, “WhatsApp Encryption Over-
view Technical white paper, v.3,” Oct. 2020,
https://www.whatsapp.com/security/WhatsApp-Security-Whitepaper.pdf.
1, 2, 3
[14] M. Marlinspike et al. , “Signal protocol.” [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/signalapp/libsignal-protocol-java/tree/master/java/src/main/java/org/whispersystems/libsignal
1, 2, 3
[15] K. Cohn-Gordon, C. J. F. Cremers, and L. Garratt, “On pos t-
compromise security,” in CSF 2016: IEEE 29st Computer Security
F oundations Symposium, M. Hicks and B. Köpf, Eds. Lisbon, Portugal:
IEEE Computer Society Press, jun 27-1 2016, pp. 164–178. 1
[16] D. Balbás, D. Collins, and S. V audenay, “Cryptographic Administrators
for Secure Group Messaging,” Cryptology ePrint Archive. 1, 5
[17] C. Cremers, B. Hale, and K. Kohbrok, “The complexities o f healing in
secure group messaging: Why cross-group effects matter,” i n USENIX
Security 2021: 30th USENIX Security Symposium , M. Bailey and
R. Greenstadt, Eds. USENIX Association, Aug. 11–13, 2021, p p.
1847–1864. 1, 5
[18] M. Marlinspike and T. Perrin, “The x3dh key agreement pr otocol,” 2016.
[Online]. Available: https://signal.org/docs/speciﬁcations/x3dh/x3dh.pdf
2
[19] H. Krawczyk, M. Bellare, and R. Canetti, “HMAC: Keyed-h ashing for
message authentication,” IETF Internet Request for Commen ts 2104,
Feb. 1997. 2
[20] H. Krawczyk and P . Eronen, “Hmac-based extract-and-ex pand key
derivation function (hkdf),” Internet Requests for Commen ts, RFC
Editor, RFC 5869, May 2010, http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5869.txt.
[Online]. Available: http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5869.txt 2
[21] P . Rösler, C. Mainka, and J. Schwenk, “More is less: On th e end-to-
end security of group chats in signal, whatsapp, and threema ,” in 2018
IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P) , 2018,
pp. 415–429. 5
[22] B. A. LaMacchia, K. Lauter, and A. Mityagin, “Stronger s ecurity
of authenticated key exchange,” in ProvSec 2007: 1st International
Conference on Provable Security , ser. Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, W. Susilo, J. K. Liu, and Y . Mu, Eds., vol. 4784. Woll ongong,
Australia: Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, Nov. 1–2, 2007, pp. 1–16. 5