Looking AT the Blue Skies of Bluesky
Leonhard Balduf
Technical University of Darmstadt
Darmstadt, Germany
leonhard.balduf@tu-darmstadt.de
Saidu Sokoto
City, University of London
London, United Kingdom
saidu.sokoto@city.ac.uk
Onur Ascigil
Lancaster University
Lancaster, United Kingdom
o.ascigil@lancaster.ac.uk
Gareth Tyson
Hong Kong University of Science and
Technology (GZ)
Guangzhou, China
gtyson@ust.hk
Björn Scheuermann
Technical University of Darmstadt
Darmstadt, Germany
scheuermann@kom.tu-darmstadt.de
Maciej Korczyński
University of Grenoble Alps
Grenoble, France
maciej.korczynski@univ-grenoble-
alpes.fr
Ignacio Castro
Queen Mary, University of London
London, United Kingdom
i.castro@qmul.ac.uk
Michał Król
City, University of London
London, United Kingdom
michal.krol@city.ac.uk
Abstract
The pitfalls of centralized social networks, such as Facebook and
Twitter/X, have led to concerns about control, transparency, and
accountability. Decentralized social networks have emerged as a
result with the goal of empowering users. These decentralized ap-
proaches come with their own trade-offs, and therefore multiple
architectures exist. In this paper, we conduct the first large-scale
analysis of Bluesky, a prominent decentralized microblogging plat-
form. In contrast to alternative approaches (e.g. Mastodon), Bluesky
decomposes and opens the key functions of the platform into sub-
components that can be provided by third party stakeholders. We
collect a comprehensive dataset covering all the key elements of
Bluesky, study user activity and assess the diversity of providers
for each sub-components.
CCS Concepts
• Networks→ Network measurement; Social media networks;
• Information systems→ Social networks.
Keywords
Bluesky, Decentralized Social Networks, Social Network Analysis
1 Introduction
Social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter have become
ubiquitous, attracting vast user bases and wielding significant in-
fluence [29]. However, their centralized structure raises concerns
about control, transparency, and accountability. These concerns
stem from the dominance of these platforms and their unchecked
discretion over user behavior and content moderation, which has
sparked regulatory interest and public debate [16, 31].
In response, decentralized social network (DSN) platforms have
emerged. Aiming to foster a more democratic and open online envi-
ronment, DSNs have pioneered diverse architectures with varying
degrees of decentralization. The “fediverse”, with its server-based
federated services like Mastodon, has attracted attention and users,
particularly after the change of ownership in Twitter [20]. These
platforms deconstruct their service into independent, user-creatable
server instances. This approach to decentralization shifts control to
instance administrators, who moderate content and users [30]. The
downside of this is that the failure of an individual server can result
in data and account loss [29]. Other approaches, such as Nostr [4],
overcome these problems by greater decentralized replication, but
consequently lack important server-centric features such as content
recommendations.
Bluesky [25] attempts to overcome these deficiencies. Deployed
in 2022, Bluesky operates as a microblogging service that resembles
Twitter/X where users can follow each other and share short posts
(including images and videos). Bluesky, however, proposes a radical
departure from Twitter/X or existing fediverse implementations.
Its key innovation is to decompose and open the key functions
of a social microblogging platform into sub-components that can
be provided by stakeholders other than Bluesky. In contrast to fe-
diverse applications, which embed all the functions into a single
server, Bluesky encourages multiple stakeholders to take on the re-
sponsibility of delivering particular sub-aspects of the social media
experience. This means that multiple actors can develop particular
components within the overall system. Subsequently, users can
then select between these competing providers of each component
to compose their own personalized social media experience.
To attain this, Bluesky defines five key system components:
(1) Decentralized User Identifiers (DIDs): To detach users from
any specific operator, each user can create their own distinct (cryp-
tographically verified) identifier, which they can use across differ-
ent providers. This identifier is linked to their user handle, a hu-
man-readable identifier with a domain of the user’s choice. (2) Per-
sonal Data Servers (PDSes): To detach users from relying on a
specific server to host their data, users can port their data (associ-
ated with their DID) to any data server and even create their own
PDS. (3) Relays: To minimize complexity and overheads, data from
multiple PDSes can be aggregated within a single Relay server that
offers high-performance delivery to end users. This is optional and
clients can still retrieve posts directly from the PDSes. (4) Feed
Generators: To allow a plurality of feed algorithms, anybody can
develop their own Feed Generators, which define the selection and
arXiv:2408.12449v2  [cs.NI]  29 Oct 2024

Leonhard Balduf et al.
order of posts seen on a user’s timeline. Importantly, users can
select between competing Feed Generators to configure how they
view content. (5) Labelers: To facilitate content moderation, any-
body can develop a Labeler which assigns labels (e.g. hate speech)
to objects, including posts and accounts. These can also be used
locally by clients to decide content that should be filtered.
Any competing operator can build the above components, and
users can freely select between them. For example, users can mi-
grate their data between competing PDSes or configure the use
of alternative Feed Generators. This plurality constitutes a radical
shift from the walled-garden approach espoused by existing major
players and proposes novel innovations with respect to other DSNs.
Bluesky produces a complex system of interconnected components,
operators, and users with a diversity of experiences. In this paper,
we examine the operation of these components, study whether
operators uptake the opportunity of providing them, whether this
results in competing offerings and how users choose among offer-
ings and operators. We particularly focus on how multiple operators
manage the critical components: PDSes, Feed Generators, and La-
belers. With this in mind, we gather the first large-scale Bluesky
dataset, covering 5,523,919 users, 225,461,969 posts, 40,398 Feed
Generators, and 62 Labelers.
We start by investigating the competing set of domains hosting
handles. We discover that, despite the supposed openness, the vast
majority of users’ handles are linked to bsky.social. We then in-
spect the availability and offerings of Labelers. Although Bluesky
operates the most popular, we do observe a growing ecosystem of
operators now issuing a majority of labels just two months after
opening this system component. We find that some community
operators deviate from the original Labeler goal of filtering content
and rather focus on content tagging. We then investigate the Feed
Generators. This is the most popular and competitive component of
the ecosystem, with tens of thousands of active Feed Generators in
operation. We discover a wide range of feeds, from spam accounts
to ones dedicated to explicit content. To the best of our knowl-
edge, this is the first large-scale study of the Bluesky component
ecosystem.
2 Bluesky Primer
Bluesky is a decentralized network where each system component
(e.g. data storage, moderation engine) is open-source and can be
replicated, operated, and modified by the community. Users have
control over their data, and can migrate between competing op-
erators freely. Bluesky attempts to be scalable and easy to use, by
avoiding redundant communication and providing a user experi-
ence similar to centralized social networks. We use Bluesky to refer
to the social network platform and Bluesky PBC when referring to
the company developing the platform. In this section, we provide
an overview of the key concepts of Bluesky.
The AT Protocol. The Authenticated Transfer Protocol (ATProto)
was developed as a general protocol to underpin social networks
and forms the basis of Bluesky. The protocol defines high-level
interactions between components of distributed social applications
(e.g. reading data from a user repository). ATProto is easily exten-
sible and does not define the exact exchanged data types. Those
types are defined in lexicons that can be created by the commu-
nity and are organized in namespaces identified by Domain Name
System (DNS)-like names. For example, the lexicon app.bsky de-
fines the type app.bsky.feed.post, which corresponds to a social
media post in the Bluesky application.
Decentralized Identities. Users in Bluesky are identi-
fied via a unique Decentralized Identifier ( DID) [ 32], e.g.,
did:plc:ewvi7nxzyoun6zhxrhs64oiz. A DID is immutable and
identifies a user uniquely in the network. This enables users
to migrate between different servers hosting their data while
maintaining their social graph.
Each DID points to its associated DID Document, a document
that stores service information about the user. This includes the
endpoint of the Personal Data Server (PDS) storing the user’s data
repository, the user’s handle, as well as public keys to verify sig-
natures on user content. There are currently two supported DID
schemata: PLC and WEB. They differ in how the DID Document
are retrieved: (1) for PLC DIDs, the associated document is down-
loaded from the plc.directory service, which is operated by
Bluesky PBC. (2) WEB DIDs consist of a Fully-Qualified Do-
main Name ( FQDN). The associated document must be located
at https://<fqdn>/.well-known/did.json .
User Handles. To provide human-friendly identification, users
are addressable via mutable handles. Handles are stored in the DID
document, linking mutable and immutable identifiers. Handles are
a FQDN and utilize DNS for proof of ownership.
There are two mechanisms to prove ownership
of a handle, e.g. @example.com: (1) via a DNS TXT
record located at _atproto.example.com, contain-
ing the DID of the user, or (2) via a file located at
https://example.com/.well-known/atproto-did . Both
mechanisms ensure the owner of the handle also has ownership of
the associated domain, enabling data ownership and user identity
verification. By default, Bluesky automatically manages user keys
and creates a handle in the form of @username.bsky.social,
hiding the complexity of decentralized identities.
User Data Repositories. Repositories, or repos, are the main
data structure that stores user data. The repos constitute a
key-value store of records and contain users’ posts, likes, fol-
lows, blocks, etc. All Bluesky-related records are encoded as
Concise Binary Object Representation ( CBOR), as defined by
the com.atproto and app.bsky lexicons. Updates to a user’s
repo are signed using one of the keys contained in their
DID Document, via repo commits. Entries in repositories can
be identified uniquely within the network via a Uniform Re-
source Identifiers ( URIs), of the form at://<did>/<key>, e.g.,
at://<did>/app.bsky.feed.post/3kdgeujwlq32y, where the
last component of the path marks a unique ID to distinguish repeat-
able records.
Personal Data Servers. Repos are hosted by PDSes. A PDS can
hold multiple repositories, but each repository is served by just one
PDS that the user can choose. Bluesky PBC operates the default
PDSes. However, it has recently become possible to self-host PDSes
and federate with the network.1 Thus, users can migrate to different
1https://docs.bsky.app/blog/self-host-federation

Looking AT the Blue Skies of Bluesky
PDSes while maintaining their social graph. This requires updating
the endpoint in the user’s DID Document. The PDSes also store
user preferences, which are only accessible by the authenticated
user.
The Relay. Checking for repo updates individually is resource-
intensive, as each client would need to contact many different
PDSes. To streamline the process, a centralized Relay aggregates
user interactions across PDSes. This is a central store that repli-
cates the repo data structures from all known PDSes. The relay
then provides the Firehose — a real-time feed of all activity in the
network that anyone can subscribe to. The Firehose has a retention
time of three days and includes user repo updates as well as infor-
mational and service-related events (e.g. updates to user handles).
Bluesky PBC runs the default Relay and Firehose at bsky.network.
However, other providers could offer a competing service if they
wish.
Feed Generators. A major challenge with existing social networks
is the use of (opaque) commercial algorithms to generate the feeds,
selecting which posts to display to which user. In contrast, Bluesky
implements an open ecosystem for content recommendation. Any
user can run their own Feed Generator that other users can sub-
scribe to. When creating a Feed Generator, its creators add a special
record in their repository, which points to the data dissemination
endpoint for the feed. The Feed Generator then consumes the Fire-
hose and produces a bespoke feed, consisting of URIs pointing to
chosen posts. Feed generators can be self-hosted, or created using
one of multiple feed-generator-as-a-service.
Labelers. To support feed generation and other content classifica-
tion activities (e.g. filtering hate speech), Bluesky introduces the
concept of Labelers. Labelers are services that attach labels to ob-
jects in the network. Users can then leverage these labels to filter
content. In practice, these labels are a simple short string (e.g. nsfw).
Some labels are predefined and have hardcoded behavior in other
components, such as !hide, which hides the content without an
option to click through. Others are custom labels, with custom be-
haviors. For example, a label might indicate that a warning message
should be placed over the content. Note, labels can also be rescinded
by a Labeler publishing the same label for the same target with the
addition of a negation mark.
Labelers operate as regular accounts with a repository for their
activity. Each Labeler publishes a service information record in its
repository, describing the values and default actions to be taken for
its labels, e.g. to display a warning. Functionally, a labeling service
implements an endpoint that publishes the labels. The endpoint is
listed in the DID Document of the hosting account and is publicly
accessible without authentication. Any entity can connect to this
endpoint to retrieve the stream of labels produced. Recently, the
ecosystem opened enabling anyone to run a Labeler.2
User Preferences. The goal of the moderation system is to give
each individual the flexibility to decide how they interpret and ac-
tion the labels. Bluesky allows users to determine their moderation
policy by describing their preferences, in terms of which labels
should trigger which actions. The preferences are a non-public
setting defining Labelers the user subscribes to and reactions to
2https://docs.bsky.app/docs/advanced-guides/moderation
labels produced by them. For each Labeler and label, the users can
choose to ignore it, show a warning, or have the content hidden
entirely.
The AppView. The AppView collates the data produced across
the network into a usable format, and makes it available to clients
via a public API. In practice, the AppView consumes the Firehose
and information from other system components, stores them in a
database, and provides the results in an easy way for a final app
to display. There is currently one Bluesky AppView, operated by
Bluesky PBC.
The Client. Client applications provide a usable frontend to the
network. They communicate with a user’s PDS and the AppView
to build the timeline displayed to users. Note, Bluesky does not
mandate a single client implementation.
3 Datasets
User Identifier Dataset. Each user in Bluesky is identified via
a unique DID. Utilizing the sync.listRepos call offered by the
Bluesky Relay, we obtain a list of all active Bluesky users and
their DIDs. This additionally returns each user’s latest respective
repo commit version. We query the endpoint weekly to learn of
changed repositories during March and April 2024, obtaining a total
of 5,591,824 identifiers.
DID Documents and FQDN Handles. We then download the
DID Documents (if available) for all user identifiers obtained in the
previous step. Recall that these documents list fully qualified do-
main name (FQDN) handles, endpoints for users’ PDSes, and other
service information. We obtain documents both from the central-
ized plc.directory service,3 operated by Bluesky PBC, used as
the default for account creations (the did:plc method), as well as
.well-known/did.json paths via HTTPs (the did:web method)
(see Section 2). We download the full snapshot over the course of one
week in March 2024. This yields a total of 5,077,159DID Documents
from the PLC server, with an additional six using the did:web
method. We extract FQDN handles from the DID Documents for
further analysis.
Repositories Dataset. We download a snapshot of all users’ repos-
itories on April 24th containing the public actions of users ( e.g.
posts, likes, blocks, etc.). We do this for the complete list of user
identities and corresponding repository versions from the User
Identifier Dataset. We utilize the sync.getRepo endpoint of the
Relay service to download a copy of each repository. Since the
Relay constantly crawls PDSes and caches repositories locally, we
are able to download all repositories, irrespective of whether they
are served by self-hosted PDSes. This is the recommended method
of obtaining repo data, and reduces load elsewhere in the network.
We gather 5,523,919 repositories over a period of 10 days during
April 2024.
Firehose Dataset. The Firehose, provided by Bluesky’s Relay, offers
a stream of users posts from across the network (akin to Twitter’s
Streaming API). We subscribe to the Firehose offered by the Relay
to obtain real-time updates from the network. This includes user
activity (e.g., posts, likes, or follows, both additions and deletions)
3https://plc.directory/

Leonhard Balduf et al.
as well as informational and service events published by the Fire-
hose. Since the Relay gathers all federated repositories, we receive
updates from the entire visible network. We have been continu-
ously subscribed to the firehose from 2024-03-06. Since then, until
April 30th, we have collected 279,289,739 events (Table 1). The vast
majority of events are repo commits, which mark an update to
the content of a user’s repository. Updates can be record creations,
deletions, or replacements. Apart from repo commits, the Firehose
publishes updates to a user’s handle, cache invalidation messages
for DID documents, and tombstones for deleted accounts.
Table 1: Overview of Firehose event types.
Event Type # Total Share (%)
Repo Commit 278,677,401 99 .78
Identity Update 531,295 0 .19
User Handle Update 44,456 0 .02
Repo Tombstone 36,587 0 .01
Feed Generators Dataset. Feed Generators form the basis of con-
tent curation and moderation in Bluesky (see Section 2). We com-
pile a complete list of all Feed Generators operating in the network.
Since they can be identified via records in the repositories, we uti-
lize the downloaded repositories as well as real-time updates from
the Firehose to obtain a list of all Feed Generator identifiers. For
each Feed Generator, we determine the DID of the service respon-
sible for hosting it, as well as the associated endpoint. In total, we
discover 43,063 Feed Generators. We download Feed Generator
metadata (e.g. descriptions and information about the creators) via
the getFeedGenerator method of the AppView.
Feed Post Dataset. We collect URIs of all Feed Generator posts
from the Appview getFeed endpoint bi-weekly. We then correlate
the URIs with the posts in the Repositories Dataset to obtain the
full content of each post. Although 100% of Feed Generators with
metadata were marked as both online and valid, we were only able
to get posts for 93% of them. While there is a way to delete Feed
Generator records from the repos, provided this record is still there,
there is no way to distinguish between permanent and temporary
unavailability. We thus exclude 4.3% of Feed Generators without
metadata from our analysis.
From 2024-04-16 to 2024-05-10, we collect 21,520,083 posts from
40,398 Feed Generators. A challenge for our data collection is that
Feed Generators have different policies regarding their retention of
historical posts. While some provide all the historical posts, others
impose limits based on duration (e.g. only posts no older than 10
days) or the number of posts ( e.g. only the last 100 posts). As a
result, we are not able to collect all the Feed Generator posts from
before our measurement period.
Labeling Services. To become a labeling service, an account cre-
ates a service information record in their repository and a service
endpoint entry in their DID Document. We utilize this to compile
a comprehensive list of Labelers using the repository data and
real-time updates from the Firehose.
As of 2024-05-01, we identify 62 unique labeling services. For
each, we subscribe to the public endpoint listed in theirDID Document
Figure 1: Daily operation and active user counts.
and receive a stream of labels produced by the Labeler. We collectall
labels produced, including ones emitted before our collection period,
by consuming the entire stream of labels produced by each Labeler.
If a Labeler’s endpoint is temporarily unavailable, we backfill any
missed updates as soon as the endpoint is functional again. This
includes rescinded labels, as indicated by a negation of a previously
emitted label.
We attempt to reconnect to the service endpoints on a daily basis,
but find only 46 labeling services functional, of which 36 issued at
least one label. Overall, as of May 2024, we collect 3,402,009 inter-
actions from labeling services, including 23,394 rescinded labels.
4 User Activity
First, we analyze the user activity on Bluesky. We study the growth
dynamics of the platform, the most popular accounts, and its current
size compared to other, established social networks. This allows us
to understand the platform’s current status and its user base. We
deliberately omit a deeper analysis of the social graph, as Bluesky
does not introduce novel solutions in this regard. Finally, we inves-
tigate whether the theoretically flexible ATProto infrastructure is
used to distribute content not related to the social network itself.
The repositories dataset reveals an accumulation of operations
(e.g. follows, likes) through which Bluesky users have interacted
since the creation of the platform in Nov 2022. We observe a total of
740M likes, 225M posts, 160.9M follows, 77.9M reposts, and 10.8M
user blocking operations. In this section, we analyze the platform’s
growth, its current status and language-specific communities.
Growth. We observe the initial activity in users’ repositories dating
back to November 2022, when Bluesky was launched (Figure 1).
This coincides with Elon Musk’s acquisition of Twitter and the
subsequent firing of half of the employees. The events following
the takeover spurred interest in decentralized social media plat-
forms [20]. Bluesky experienced a large growth in daily user activity
over the subsequent eight months following November 2022. The
number of active users increased from mere hundreds in December
2022 to hundreds of thousands by July 2023. Another significant
surge in daily user activity occurred in February 2024, when Bluesky
transitioned from an invite-only platform to a public one. While
Bluesky experienced initial growth, we also observe stagnation and
even a decrease in daily active users. The number of daily active
users decreased by≈ 60K between March and May 2024.

Looking AT the Blue Skies of Bluesky
Figure 2: Active user counts of individual language-specific
communities.
We further investigate the activity of≈ 2M Bluesky users, who
posted at least once, based on the self-assigned language tags at-
tached to their posts (Figure 2). We verify a small (≈ 0.1%) random
portion of these posts and find that they indeed correspond to
the language indicated in the tags. Language-specific communities
roughly follow the global trend of user activity but we also notice
some discrepancies. For instance, opening the platform to the pub-
lic in February 2024 significantly increased the number of active
Japanese-speaking users while the German-speaking community
remained largely unaffected. In April, the Portuguese-speaking
community experienced a sharp growth from≈ 3K to≈ 30K, most
likely caused by direct marketing actions and recent documentation
translation [5].
Current Status. As of April 2024, we observe a consistent pres-
ence of around 500K active users daily on the platform, contributing
approximately 3M likes, 800K posts, and 300K reposts daily (Fig-
ure 1). The network size is comparable to Mastodon but significantly
smaller than Twitter with 1M [3] and 245M [6] daily active users,
respectively. While English remains the platform’s main language
(≈ 800K users), more than 700K users use Japanese language tags,
suggesting a diverse user base. The platform has recognized the
importance of the community, for instance, by implementing a dedi-
cated kawaii mode.4 Additionally, Portuguese and German emerged
as the next popular languages among users.
Account popularity. We observe the account popularity based
on likes and block operations. The most popular account is the
Bluesky official account (775K followers as of April 2024), which
posts updates on the platform. The other popular accounts belong
to popular American newspapers and independent journalists, such
as the Washington Post and the NY Times, each with over 200K
followers. On the other hand, the most blocked accounts belong
to celebrity impersonators and propagandists. For example, the
most blocked account impersonates Jordan B. Peterson, while the
next most blocked account is an anti-vaccine propagandist. Both
accounts received≈ 15K blocks.
Non-Bluesky content. We find that the Firehose also distributes
content not covered by the Bluesky-related lexicons.These are
records in user repositories targeted for a different AppView, i.e.,
Bluesky cannot decode or display them. We find 1,855 events (out
4https://bsky.app?kawaii=true
of≈ 280M) relating to these records. Among the targeted applica-
tions, we find WhiteWind5 to be the most popular public applica-
tion. WhiteWind attempts to bring long-form blogging to ATProto.
Users can log in using their Bluesky account and write articles
using markdown. The articles are then saved in the user’s repo,
hosted on their PDS. The WhiteWind AppView and Frontend can
decode the entries and display them on the website.
These alternative applications require the Bluesky infrastructure
(e.g. the Firehose) to index and re-publish non-Bluesky content. The
ability to use already deployed infrastructure without additional
cost is beneficial to the growth of the ecosystem. Due to the current
limited size of those applications, they have a limited impact on the
infrastructure. However, it remains to be seen whether this remains
viable as those platforms grow.
Takeaways. Bluesky has experienced significant growth since its
launch in November 2022. However, the growth has been driven
mostly by specific events such as the public launch and stagnates
between those events. Bluesky is still significantly smaller than
its centralized counterpart and does not yet show signs of the
snowball effect or mass user migration. This is further confirmed
by the current lack of popular celebrity or institutional accounts.
At the same time, the good user experience and a rapidly increasing
number of features could enable Bluesky to attract specific country-
or interest-specific communities. This is exemplified by a recent
mass migration of Brazilian users after X/Twitter was banned in the
country [14].6 Finally, opening the platform infrastructure to third-
party applications could further boost the growth and diversity of
the ecosystem but for now, remain in their infancy.
Figure 3: Number of subdomain handles per registered do-
main name (effective second-level domain); for clarity, we
exclude subdomains of bsky.social, which account for 98.9%
of all observed FQDN handles.
5 (De)centralized Identity
Bluesky supports decentralized identities, allowing users to link
their accounts to their domain names and manage their own keys.
This frees the user from a dependence on a single identity provider.
However, to simplify the account creation process, the platform
also offers a custodial identity creation that automatically creates a
subdomain handle under the bsky.social domain. We investigate
user choices, adoption trends, and their possible implications for
security and trust.
5https://whtwnd.com/
6Unfortunately, the migration happened outside of our data collection period.

Leonhard Balduf et al.
Subdomain Handles Concentration.We analyze 5,077,159 FQDN
handles, sourced from DID documents, to investigate the concen-
tration of subdomain providers. Despite the theoretical openness
of handle creation, we observe a notable concentration of subdo-
main name handles with 98.9% of them under bsky.social. The
prevalence of such handles is expected, given their convenient man-
agement. Bluesky offers subdomain handles at no cost, making
them readily accessible during the Bluesky account creation pro-
cess. Moreover, users can employ these handles without having to
link them to a DID.
Next, we investigate the remaining 57,202 FQDN handles to
identify alternative operators and services (Figure 3). This helps
us study to what extent the openness of the Bluesky design trans-
lates into actual diversity. Interestingly, no operator exceeds a few
hundred FQDNs per registered name. For instance, we find 256
FQDNs under swifties.social, and 179 and 133 FQDNs under
tired.io and vibes.cool, respectively, both managed by Sky-
name.7 Those domains offer dedicated support for Bluesky and
facilitate the handle migration process. We also observe generic
subdomains. For instance, we identify 35 accounts that use their
github.io subdomain as Bluesky handles.
Using services like bsky.social and other dedicated subdomain
providers offers the benefit of easy integration into the Bluesky
ecosystem. However, this convenience may come at the cost of
giving control over data custody and management to the platform’s
operator.
Self-Managed Domain Names. Organizations and individuals
with existing domains can leverage them to confirm the legitimacy
of their Bluesky accounts. This approach offers more control over
data privacy but adds security and infrastructure management
responsibilities.
We extract 51,879 registered domains (i.e., effective second-level
domain names) from FQDNs using the Public Suffix List [27] to iden-
tify prominent brands within the ecosystem. We cross-reference
the registered domain names with the Tranco popularity list [26]
and identify only 1,436 (2.8%) entries within the top 1 million rank-
ing. These include domains associated with tech companies ( e.g.
amazonaws.com, microsoft.com, cloudflare.com), media outlets
(e.g. cnn .com , nytimes.com, washingtonpost.com), and univer-
sities (e.g. stanford.edu, columbia.edu). The limited represen-
tation of domains associated with major organizations suggests
limited engagement with the Bluesky platform.
Validating Handle Ownership. Bluesky services currently recog-
nize DIDs derived from eitherdid:web, defined by the W3C Creden-
tials Community Group [17], or did:plc, established by Bluesky
PBC for Atproto [21]. Interestingly, we identify only six did:web
identities. This observation could stem from the accessibility of the
mechanism supported by Bluesky PBC, along with the distinction
from domain name handles, particularly in the immutability of
the identifier. Unlike domain name handles, the did:web domains
associated with a DID cannot be changed [25].
With bsky.social (did:plc) domain handles, subdo-
mains are automatically linked to their DIDs by hosting
/.well-known/atproto-did files. We further explore the two
7https://skyna.me
Table 2: Domain name handles per registrar.
IANA ID Registrar Name # Total Share (%)
1068 NameCheap, Inc. 8,252 20.94%
1910 CloudFlare, Inc. 4,514 11.46%
895 Squarespace Domains 4,453 11.30%
146 GoDaddy.com, LLC 2,835 7.19%
1861 Porkbun, LLC 2,698 6.85%
69 Tucows Domains Inc. 2,337 5.93%
49 GMO Internet Group 1,796 4.56%
mechanisms employed by other FQDN handles to validate handle
ownership using active measurements. We gather 52,160 DIDs
corresponding to FQDN handles beyond the bsky.social domain.
The vast majority of 51,497 (98.7%) FQDN handles contain DID
entries ( e.g., did=did:plc:cpa2egh7gaaesf2hqc2vuosp) stored
in the DNS TXT records of the _atproto subdomains, while
only 663 (1.3%) are stored in the /.well-known/atproto-did
files. Several factors could influence the discrepancy. Multiple
online guidelines indicate step-by-step procedures for adding
TXT records via registrar platforms without requiring in-depth
knowledge of DNS. Furthermore, storing this information in DNS
avoids configuring and running a webserver just to prove domain
ownership.
Registrar Concentration. Next, we perform a WHOIS scan to
evaluate the concentration of registered domain names among
various registrars identified using IANA IDs. We collect WHOIS
data for 47,728 (92%) registered domain names and successfully
extract the IANA ID for 39,403 (76%) domain names. We cannot
retrieve the IANA ID for all registrars. While ICANN-accredited
registrars must display the IANA IDs for new and legacy generic
top-level domains (TLDs), public WHOIS records for country-code
TLD (ccTLD) operators might not always contain this information.
This could be because ccTLDs opt to provide limited data in WHOIS
or because registrars are locally accredited by ccTLDs, exempting
them from the requirement for ICANN-accredited registrars to have
an IANA ID [8].
We find a high degree of centralization of domain handles. While
we identify 39,403 registered domains spread across 249 registrars,
50% of the domains are registered in just four registrars. Namecheap,
an ICANN-accredited registrar, accounts for 21%. The collabora-
tion announced in May 2023 between Bluesky and Namecheap to
streamline the process of purchasing and linking domain names
to Bluesky explains the latter.8 We argue that dedicated support
from additional registrars will be necessary to avoid the risks of
excessive registrar centralization in the future.
User Handles Updates. Finally, we analyze recent changes in
user identities via the Firehose dataset. We observe 44,449 handle
changes by 31,494 unique DIDs. This indicates that some users
changed their handles more than once during our observation
period. In these changes, we register only 41,359 unique handles,
indicating that some users switch back and forth between handles.
While the source handle is unavailable in the update event, we
8https://bsky.social/about/blog/7-05-2023-namecheap

Looking AT the Blue Skies of Bluesky
investigate the final handles the users settled on with the updates.
We observe that 23, 817 (75.74 %) of the final handles are under
bsky.social, while the remaining 7, 630 (24.26 %) are under other
domains. This might suggest that as the ecosystem develops, users
are more likely to switch to custom domain names, possibly due
to the increasing support from alternative services. This perhaps
highlights the flexibility of the overall architecture.
Takeaways. Bluesky offers a variety of options for identity manage-
ment ranging from custodial subdomain handles to self-managed
domain names. Unsurprisingly, the vast majority of users opt for the
convenience of automatic subdomain handles under bsky.social
that resembles traditional social media authentication. This leaves
Bluesky in full control over user identities but also enables the
platform to avoid the trap of fully decentralized, complex iden-
tity management that could deter regular users. At the same time,
institutions or tech-savvy users have the option to manage their
keys and link their accounts to their domain names making their
identity largely independent of the Bluesky operators. We observe
that more decentralized options to identity management can attract
users when made more accessible. It remains to be seen whether
such a flexible approach to identity management will enable the
onboarding of a large number of users with the centralized ap-
proach while later allowing them to take more control over their
identity as the decentralized identity solutions mature and develop
user-friendly interfaces.
6 Content Moderation
Content moderation is a crucial aspect of any social media platform.
The traditional social media platforms have faced criticism for their
opaque and inconsistent moderation practices. Bluesky presents
a novel approach that relies on two main elements: (1) Labelers,
which produce short textual labels attached to objects, and (2) User
preferences indicating (a) which Labelers to subscribe to (i.e. use
labels from) and (b) how to react to a given label ( e.g. by hiding
the post). In this section, we focus on the Labelers producing the
labels, and later inspect the labels themselves and the process of
their issuance. We try to reveal how the moderation process is split
between the official Bluesky Labeler and community-run Labelers,
and whether there is a significant overlap between them. Note, the
user preferences are not publicly visible and we make no attempt
to reveal them due to ethical considerations.
6.1 Labelers
Growth. Figure 4 plots the number of Labelers over time. In April
2023, Bluesky launched its first official Labeler which remained the
only one for 11 months. On March 15th 2024, the platform opened
up to community-driven Labelers, leading to a rapid increase in
the number of Labelers. The new Labelers produce an increasing
number of labels and in April 2024 issued 1,082,207 (88.7 %) of all
the labels.
We make two observations. (1) In the federated architecture
of Bluesky, the centralized AppView component subscribes to all
known Labelers and needs to store all labels. This approach makes
it relatively easy to run a Labeler. The required bandwidth is low
and the required computing capacity depends on the implemented
algorithm. (2) Conversely, running an AppView becomes ever-more
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
0
15
30
45
60
Apr 2023 Jul 2023 Oct 2023 Jan 2024 Apr 2024
Date
# Labels (×10⁶)
# Community LabelersSource
Community
Bluesky
Figure 4: Number of labels produced by source per month
(left-hand axis), and number of community-run labeler ser-
vices over time (right-hand axis).
resource demanding, the more Labelers are active. It remains to be
seen whether this approach is scalable in the long term.
Current State. As of 2024-05-01, 62 unique accounts announced
themselves as Labelers. However, only 36 issued at least one label.
Table 3 lists the top 5 community-run Labelers by the number of
applied labels. Some are transparent and their authors are publicly
known. They generally post about their implementation, technical
details, and challenges. For instance, the 5th most active community
Labeler caters specifically to the Japanese community of Final Fan-
tasy 14 game players. This service is intended to prevent accidental
exposure to spoilers about new game content. In an accompany-
ing blog post,9 the author describes the implementation and notes
challenges with false positives. In other cases, the operators remain
anonymous and do not provide details about their service (e.g. the
“AI Imagery Labeler”, which is operated by multiple anonymous
individuals following a “Moderator Handbook”).10
We analyze the IP addresses of the Labelers. Most (40, or 65 %
of all) services run on cloud-based hosting infrastructure or are
reverse-proxied. However, we find that 6 (10 %) are operated from
ISP-assigned residential addresses. The remaining 16 (26 %) were
not functional and no endpoint could be determined.
6.2 Labels
Number of labeled objects. So far, Labelers have applied labels to
a total of 3,160,851 unique objects. Due to the dynamic development
of the Labeler ecosystem, 1,122,226 (36 %) of those objects were
labeled in April 2024 alone. For context, in April, the entire network
produced a total of 26,467,002 posts. Of those, 1,114,848 (4.21 %)
were labeled with at least one label. The most commonly labeled
objects are posts (99.63 %), followed by entire accounts (0.23 %), and
profile pictures/banners (0.14 %).
Labels cause different behavior depending on the object they
are applied to. For labeled posts, the post itself, or just the media
attached to it, is subject to action by the client. Posts can be hidden,
their media blurred, etc. Profiles usually receive labels for their
9https://blog.usounds.work/posts/bluesky-ff14-labeler
10https://trail-buckthorn-014.notion.site/Bluesky-AI-Imagery-Labeler-Moderator-
Handbook-65ef75d92a0e4faab0ad2925fc35c85c

Leonhard Balduf et al.
Table 3: Top 5 community labelers by number of labels applied.
Rank # Applied Name Likes Operator Description
1 1,360,224 Bad Accessibility / Alt Text Labeler 99 @baatl.bsky.social Labels posts for missing/invalid alt text.
2 76,599 XBlock Screenshot Labeler 301 @aendra.com Uses a machine-learning model to classify screen-
shots by origin.
3 73,875 No GIFS Please 88 Labels GIFs.
4 56,517 AI Imagery Labeler 546 Labels AI-related posts by hashtags.
5 10,024 @ff14labeler.bsky.social 15 @usounds.work Labels Final Fantasy 14 content spoilers.
profile picture or banner image. In these cases, the labels only have
minor effects: content is still shown, although the profile picture or
banner of the account is blurred or hidden. Finally, labels can also
be applied to entire accounts, as identified by their DID. Configured
label behavior applies to the entire account, e.g., hides all posts
from that account, if chosen by the user.
Label values. We identify a total of 222 distinct label values. After
cleaning the data (e.g. removing negations without previous appli-
cations), there are 196 distinct label values. We find that Labelers
mostly deal with disjoint parts of the network. Only 100,888 (3.2 %)
of the labeled objects have labels by multiple services applied on
them and 9 objects are labeled with the same label by different
Labelers.
Looking at Table 4, the most-applied label for posts isno-alt-text,
applied by the most popular community Labeler. This label marks
posts with attached media missing an alternative text description
for the media. The next most frequently applied labels (porn and
sexual) describe Not Safe For Work (NSFW) content and are almost
exclusively applied by the official Bluesky Labeler. The tenor-gif
label is applied by a community Labeler. It marks posts containing
a reaction GIF from the popular Tenor11 GIF keyboard.
Label values prefixed with an exclamation mark are reserved
and hold special meanings. They are valid only when issued by
the official Bluesky Labeler. All users are subscribed to the official
Bluesky Labeler and unsubscribing is not an option. Their behavior
is hardcoded in the client implementation and other system compo-
nents. As an example, the !takedown label causes labeled content
to be purged from the network. This label can be applied to posts,
but also to entire accounts via their DID. For the latter, it causes
the entire account to be removed from system components and re-
quests for its content to be discarded. The labels porn, sexual, and
graphic-media also have hardcoded behavior, but can be emitted
by any Labeler. Content labeled with them becomes inaccessible to
users under the age of 18.
Another challenge is that there is no official list of potential label
values to apply (apart from 7 labels, of which some are exclusive to
the official Bluesky Labeler as outlined earlier). As such, different
Labelers use different labels with similar meanings. While this can
pose issues regarding coherent labeling, it also offers flexibility to
developers. Note that Labelers have to provide descriptive meta-
data when declaring the list of label values they emit. Ultimately,
Labelers play just one part in the overall moderation infrastruc-
ture: users choose which Labelers to subscribe to, and how their
client should react to specific labels produced by these services.
11https://tenor.com/
Because users choose which Labelers to subscribe to, there is a
potential challenge in how to discover appropriate Labelers, and
make informed decisions about which labels to trust.
In general, we find that label values generally show little overlap
between the Bluesky Labeler and community Labelers, i.e., they
seem to deal with mostly disjoint topics: Only 56,856 (1.8 %) objects
are labeled by the Bluesky Labeler and any community Labeler. The
Bluesky Labeler mostly labels NSFW content and upholds some
community standards whereas the community Labelers seem to
operate in specific niches. This is enabled by the flexibility (or lack
of predefined) label values and user choice in how to react to labels.
6.3 Label issuance
Finally, we gather insights about the process of issuing labels. We
0.1s
1s
10s
1m
1h
1d
10¹ 10³ 10⁶
# Labels Produced
Reaction Time
Source
Community
Bluesky
Figure 5: Number of labels produced by source vs. reaction
time — median and quartiles shown.
first analyze how long it takes for a label to be issued. Figure 5 shows
the reaction time (median and 1st/3rd quartile) and the number
of labels produced per Labeler. To calculate the reaction time, we
exclusively look at new posts received from the Firehose since
2024-03-06. We do this to avoid other objects which retrieve labels
less frequently (e.g. accounts), and labels applied retroactively to
older posts. The more labels a Labeler produces, the faster they
are generally in reacting to new posts, suggesting a high degree of
automation. This is reinforced by the variability in reaction times.
Labelers producing fewer objects are generally more variable in
their reaction time, indicative of a manual process rather than an
automated one. Note that the Labeler with the most labels in total
is the one operated by Bluesky, which has been running for≈ 11
months more than the other ones.

Looking AT the Blue Skies of Bluesky
Table 4: Label targets with most-applied labels.
Object Type # Objects Share (%) Top Labels
Post 3,332,727 99 .63 no-alt-text (1,359,752), porn (1,256,305), sexual (375,620), ai-imagery (56,603), tenor-gif (54,968)
Account 7,601 0 .23 !takedown (2,643), spam (1,067), ai-imagery (582), impersonation (575), transphobia (311)
Banner/Avatar 4,706 0 .14 sexual (2,538), porn (1,742), nudity (208), gore (104), self-harm (35)
Other 121 < 0.01 porn (65), sexual (30), !takedown (12), nudity (5), gore (2)
In Figure 6 we investigate the number of objects labeled per label
value (e.g., porn) and the labeler’s reaction time. The figure shows
the median and 1st/3rd quartile and the color indicates the produc-
ing Labeler. On the lower right-hand side, we find the most-active
community Labelers, applying e.g. no-alt-text and ai-imagery,
as well as the screenshot-classifying Labeler. Reaction time for
these is generally very low (e.g. < 10 s), as the systems are likely
automated. The labels in the upper left-hand corner are applied
rarely and are mostly produced by community Labelers. We find
that some of these are simply experiments by early adopters, while
the majority are probably applied manually.
For the official Bluesky Labeler, we observe two groups of labels:
In the lower half of the plot, we find porn, nudity, corpse etc.,
which are applied within seconds, indicating automated systems.
On the other hand, labels such as,e.g., spam, sexual-figurative,
intolerant, and !takedown take longer to be applied, pointing to
manual processes. It seems that heavy-handed moderation decisions
such as removing data are deliberated instead of automated. This
is reassuring, especially for the !takedown label having significant
consequences for the affected users.
!takedown
!warn
ai-imagery
bluesky-screenshot
corpse
gore
graphic-media
icon-intolerant
intolerant
no-alt-text
nudity
porn
rude
self-harm
sexual
sexual-ﬁgurative
spam
tenor-giftenor-gif-no-text
threat
twitter-screenshot
!takedown
!warn
ai-imagery
bluesky-screenshot
corpse
gore
graphic-media
icon-intolerant
intolerant
no-alt-text
nudity
porn
rude
self-harm
sexual
sexual-ﬁgurative
spam
tenor-giftenor-gif-no-text
threat
twitter-screenshot
0.1s
1s
10s
1m
1h
1d
10¹ 10³ 10⁶
# Objects Labeled
Reaction Time
Labeler Community Bluesky
Figure 6: Number of labels produced by source vs. reaction
time — median and quartiles shown.
Takeaways. Bluesky combines mandatory12 platform-run modera-
tion with a plethora of custom, user-led Labelers.The open Labeler
ecosystem is still in its infancy and mostly issues specific labels (e.g.
GIFs from a specific platform) avoiding more controversial topics
(e.g. fake news or hate speech). Notably, the ease of running a La-
beler and the flexibility of the system already enable it to be used
not only for specific, niche topics, but also for downstream content
recommendation (cf. Section 7). While we observe a high degree
of automation in the label issuance process, some labels are still
likely applied manually. This is especially true for the more subtle
labels, such as threat or intolerant. We expect more labels to be
issued automatically in the future as the content rate increases and
technology matures.
As Bluesky grows, the platform might be also exposed to increas-
ing regulatory pressure to moderate content. 13 This creates the
risk of running forced, centralized moderation before the content
is distributed to the network and limiting the role of decentralized
Labelers. We note that it is already possible for Bluesky PBC to
perform “infrastructure takedowns”, instantly removing data from
their infrastructure in cases of clearly illegal content. While running
a Labeler is relatively easy, the incentives for their operators to scale
up their operations are unclear. In the long run, the decentralized
Labelers might thus cover the issuance of high-quality labels for
niche use cases, while the centralized moderation would handle the
bulk of the sensitive content (e.g. CSAM) and remove it from the
network.
7 Content Recommendation
Bluesky allows users to personalize the content displayed on their
timelines by subscribing to Feed Generators. Users can subscribe
to multiple feeds and switch between them seamlessly. We analyze
the Feed Generators’ ecosystem, their impact on the network and
the platforms used to run them.
7.1 Feed Generators
Growth. The Feed Generators were introduced in May 2023. Since
then, their number has been steadily increasing (Figure 7). We also
observe a significant increase in the number of likes on Feed Gener-
ators and followers of Feed Generator creators. As the Feed Gener-
ator subscriptions are not public, the number of likes they receive
sheds light on their popularity. Additionally, creators responsible
for Feed Generators seem to be attracting more followers. This
suggests that creating Feed Generators might be a way for users to
12We note that, theoretically, one could run an alternative AppView component that
would ignore labels issued by Bluesky PBC.
13cf. https://bsky.app/profile/aaron.bsky.team/post/3l3gerugkbt27 for a recent example
of increased need for moderation.

Leonhard Balduf et al.
reach a wider audience. Similar to other Bluesky components, we
observe a growth increase for all those metrics in February 2024,
when the platform was opened to public use.
# Follows on Feed Generator Creator Accounts
# Likes on Feed Generators
# Feed Generators
2023-01 2023-07 2024-01
0
10×10³
20×10³
30×10³
40×10³
0
0.1×10⁶
0.2×10⁶
0.3×10⁶
0
2×10⁶
4×10⁶
6×10⁶
Date
Figure 7: Cumulative sum of number of Feed Generators,
likes on Feed Generators, and followers of Feed Generator
creator accounts, over time.
Our investigation shows that most of the generators provide
historical data from 1 to 7 days back. As a result, we acquire a
complete list of posts only for the period between April and March
2024 when we performed our measurements. We thus do not present
historical data on the number of Feed Generator posts.
Current State. As of 2024-04-30, the network contains 40,398 reach-
able Feed Generators. However, 3,782 (9.4%) have never curated
any posts, while 8,792 (21.8%) did not curate posts in the last month
and seem inactive. Interestingly, 2,202 (0.01%) Feed Generator posts
have timestamps predating Bluesky’s launch. These include times-
tamps from years such as 1185, 1776 or 1923, well before even the
start of the Unix timestamp. This suggests an implementation error
that we reported to the Bluesky team.
Using langdetect [15] on the Feed Generator descriptions, we
detect a total of 46 languages. While English is the most common
language (45%), we also find a significant number of Feed Genera-
tors in Japanese (36%), German (4.1%), Korean (2.0%), and French
(1.9%). The distribution is roughly consistent with the overall lan-
guage distribution on Bluesky (Figure 2). However, we observe a
lower proportion of Portuguese Feed Generators compared to the
overall Portuguese-speaking user base. This might be caused by
the recent increase in Portuguese-speaking users, who might not
have had enough time to create Feed Generators.
We further extract the most common words present in the de-
scription (Figure 8). We observe that the art community is partic-
ularly active in utilizing Feed Generators ( e.g. “art”, “artists”). It
provides artists with a way to showcase and potentially promote
Figure 8: Word cloud showing the most common words found
in the description of Feed Generators.
their works within the network. This is further confirmed by links
to artist content-sharing platforms (e.g. tumblr, deviantart, pixiv)
found in the descriptions. Furthermore, some Labelers explicitly tag
their content in the descriptions by using “nsfw” or “sfw” keywords.
Figure 9: Top labels associated with posts curated by Feed
Generators.
We next delve deeper into the content of Feed Generators by
analyzing the labels associated by Labelers with the posts. Only
12.6% of Feed Generators have some of their content labeled. We
focus on the 0.53% of Feed Generators that have 10% or more of
their content labeled and report their most frequent label (Figure 9).
Most of these Feed Generators (0.096%) are dedicated to explicit
content (e.g. “porn”, “sexual”, “nudity”) or spam. The dominance of
such labels is caused by the Bluesky official Labeler that focuses
on filtering this kind of content and issues the majority of all the
labels. While some independent Labelers issue labels dedicated to
describing the content rather than filtering it out ( e.g. the Final
Fantasy Labeler), such use is not yet widespread. Importantly, the
flagged content is not removed from the platform. Rather, each user
can decide how to react to each specific label.
Figure 10 shows the number of curated posts and likes received
by each Feed Generator. We observe that the majority of Feed
Generators have a low number of posts and likes. However, a few
Feed Generators curate a large number of posts ( > 400, 000) or
receive a high number of likes (> 16, 000). Interestingly, the number
of likes received by Feed Generators is not directly proportional to
the number of posts curated by them.
To explore this, we manually investigate the Feed Generators on
both extremes. Highly-liked Feed Generators returning no posts are
personalized. For instance, “the-algorithm” tailors feeds based on
user likes, while “whats-hot” aggregates trending content from
a user’s personal network. They do not return any content to

Looking AT the Blue Skies of Bluesky
Figure 10: Scatter plot showing the number of posts in rela-
tion to the like count.
“empty” accounts that we use for our crawls. On the other extreme,
there are automatic and aggregating Feed Generators. For instance,
“4dff350a5a3e” is a Japanese language feed tracking hundreds of
thousands of posts related to the popular noodle dish “ramen”, while
“hebrew-feed” automatically reposts all the content in Hebrew. We
also find active and highly-liked Feed Generators that curate their
content, potentially manually. This includes content relevant to
specific communities such as “blacksky” or “furry-new”.
Figure 11: Degree distributions of users based on follow op-
erations, with Feed Generators highlighted in red.
Gaining Popularity. We also investigate additional factors im-
pacting the popularity of Feed Generators. Figure 11 presents the
in-degree (top) and out-degree (bottom) distributions of users based
on follow operations. A red shading in both plots indicates the den-
sity of accounts that created Feed Generators. The shade of red
intensifies as the in-degrees increase and the out-degrees decrease.
This indicates that the Feed Generator accounts correspond to users
with many followers. Intuitively, popular users are more likely to
create Feed Generators and Feed Generators increase the popularity
of their creators. We observe a reverse trend for the out-degree
though. Users creating Feed Generators follow a small number of
other accounts. We calculate the Pearson’s Coefficients for vari-
ous factors to estimate whether they are predictive of an account
attracting followers. We find that the number of Feed Generators
created does not correlate with the number of followers on the
creator account (𝑟 = 0.005). When calculating the sum of likes on
the Feed Generators created, however, we find correlation at 𝑟 =
0.533. This indicates that creating good Feed Generators is a way
for users to gain a larger followership.
Finally, we investigate the number of feeds created per account.
A majority of users (62.1%) manage only one Feed Generator, while
37% of users manage between 1 and 10. Interestingly, a small fraction
(0.02%) of accounts manage a large number of Feed Generators,
exceeding 100. An account creating the most (1799) feeds belongs
to aFeed Generator As a Serviceplatform that simplifies feed creation.
Feeds created via this platform remain associated with the platform
rather than the user account justifying the high feeds per account
ratio. It motivates us to investigate such platforms.
7.2 Feed Generator As a Service
We look into the Feed Generator As a Service ecosystem by analyz-
ing the servers hosting existing Feed Generators (Figure 12). The top
three services, Skyfeed, Bluefeed, and Goodfeeds, collectively host
95.8% of all the Feed Generators, with Skyfeed alone hosting 85.86%
of them. This may indicate another example of centralization.
The number of Feed Generators does not necessarily correlate
with the number of created posts. For instance, Skyfeed, hosting
85.86% Feed Generators, produces only 30.3% of the posts but ac-
counts for 61.2% of likes. On the other hand, Goodfeeds, despite
hosting only 4.36% of the Feed Generators, is responsible for 35.6%
of the posts but receives 1.2% of likes.
Figure 12: Percentage of providers hosting feed generators
(top) and simplified Pareto chart of feed providers (bottom).
To better understand these differences, we analyze the features
offered by each Feed Generator As a Service platform. We provide
a full comparison table in Table 5 in the Appendix. The services
allow their user to consume specific inputs (e.g. a specific user or a
feed) and filter them using labels, languages or regular expressions.
Skyfeed provides by far the most comprehensive list of features,
explaining its high market share. For instance, it is the only platform
that supports regular expressions. Additionally, while Skyfeed does
support personalized feeds, this feature requires manual setup from
the developers and is not automated. As a result, most personal-
ized Feed Generators are currently run by their creators. Although
consisting of only 0.09% of all Feed Generators, they are among the

Leonhard Balduf et al.
most popular ones in the network (Figure 10). Adding such features
to the Feed Generator As a Service platforms would require a high
amount of implementation effort and increases the platform costs.
However, their lack makes creating highly-quality, personalized
Feed Generators challenging.
Most of the platforms offer their services for free and are run
by platform enthusiasts. Only Blueskyfeedcreator provides paid
options for feeds with additional features. Our conversation with
Feed Generator As a Service operators suggests that they try to
cover their costs by donations (e.g. using patreon.com or ko-fi.com)
or consider running additional Bluesky-related services to generate
profit. The lack of clear economic incentives puts in question the
ability to scale the entire Feed Generator ecosystem.
Takeaways. In contrast to Labelers, Feed Generators already play
a prominent role in the Bluesky ecosystem. High quality feed gen-
erators are widely used by users, while automatic, spamming feed
generators are less popular. Running a popular Feed Generator is an
efficient way for users to gain new followers providing a potential
incentive for users to create them. The already dynamic ecosystem
of Feed Generator As a Service platforms and its simplicity of use
promises a rapid growth of user-led Feed Generators.
8 Related Work
Several recent works have explored alternative emerging federated
social networks. Perhaps closest to our work is an initial investiga-
tion highlighting the centralization tendencies within Mastodon
[29]. Since then, there have been several related studies of these so-
called “fediverse” applications. For instance, [11] study the growth
of Mastodon, and others have investigated how user behavior differs
across server instances [9, 12, 13]. Additionally, some very recent
works deal with Bluesky from a social network perspective, which
is not the focus of our work: Quelle and Bovet [28] investigate the
social and interaction graphs for Bluesky from a network-scientific
perspective. Jeong et al. [23] collect and investigate a dataset of user
interactions with timestamp annotations to find temporal patterns.
They also investigate migration patterns from and to Bluesky [24].
One of the main challenges Bluesky attempts to overcome is de-
centralized content moderation, via its labeling architecture. There
have been several studies looking at content moderation labeling in
alternative decentralized social networks. For instance, Hassan et al.
investigate issues with policy implementation in decentralized so-
cial networks [19], and Zia et al. [10] proposed a federated solution
to training moderation models in the fediverse. Bluesky offers an
interesting new point on the design space. To the best of our knowl-
edge, we are the first to study this new architecture. Beyond the
above federated networks, there have also been studies of various
P2P decentralized social networks, perhaps most notably Secure
Scuttlebutt (SSB). These offer a P2P event-sharing protocol and an
architecture for social applications [33]. There are also blockchain-
based social networks, such as including memo.cash [37], Steemit
[18], and Sapien [22]. Finally, some work focused on assessing the
centralization of decentralized platforms such as Interplanterary
Filesystem (IPFS) [7, 35].
Our work differs as we focus on an entirely different decentral-
ized architecture: Bluesky. In contrast to prior approaches, Bluesky
decomposes social platform functionality into a set of sub-components.
These are then opened to competing providers. To the best of our
knowledge, we are the first to offer a comprehensive measurement
study of Bluesky and its novel architecture.
9 Discussion and conclusion
We have presented the first comprehensive measurement study of
the Bluesky network. The platform implements a unique, hybrid
approach to federation, content moderation, and recommendation,
which presents its own set of opportunities and challenges.
Ease of use and decentralization. Fully decentralized platforms,
despite their benefits, tend to be more difficult to use than central-
ized ones. Manually handling cryptographic keys or server migra-
tions is too difficult for the majority of users [ 36]. The Bluesky
approach tries to strike the right balance. By default, the platform
automatically handles key management and DNS domain creation.
While giving full control to Bluesky PBC, this procedure looks ac-
ceptable for most users and enables easy uptake. At the same time,
tech-savvy users can opt for more control by managing their keys
and domains themselves. Currently, only a small fraction of users
(1.1%) have chosen this option, suggesting that few people wish
to exploit this opportunity, or the technical challenges remain too
difficult for most to overcome. However, the recent development
of alternative services with dedicated support facilitating Bluesky
identity management (e.g. NameCheap) might increase this number.
Openness and diversity. Openness translates into diversity when
the barrier to entry is low. Bluesky has opened a number of compo-
nents to the community, allowing anybody to implement competi-
tors. Most notably, the content moderation and recommendation
sub-components enjoy a diverse and growing ecosystem. There are
currently > 40k Feed Generators providing personalized feeds (e.g.
the-algorithm), focusing on niche communities (e.g. furry-art) or
serving explicit content (e.g. feed-me-porn). While Bluesky PBC
hides some of this content from the default view, users can still ac-
cess them by adjusting their settings. Our results show that the use
of content moderation is also growing. We find62 Labeler accounts
in total, of which 34 are active. Community-operated Labelers al-
ready issue the majority of labels in the network after only two
months of their introduction. The freedom to create custom labels
and to re-adapt existing ones provides a high level of flexibility. It
remains to be seen whether some standardization will be neces-
sary to avoid inconsistencies and misinterpretations as the system
grows.
Importantly, Bluesky PBC still controls the Firehose and the Ap-
pView, which are arguably the main choke points of the system.
This enables deleting user accounts, enforcing rules, and vetting
external services. However, it is not clear how a potential migra-
tion would work, and the network effect might prevent users from
switching to a new service.
Scalability. Maintaining centralized components by Bluesky PBC
ensures a good user experience and simplifies the development
of federated components. For instance, running an independent
Labeler requires only lightweight operations, while the Firehose
and AppView handle the heavy lifting of aggregating a global view
of the network. However, as the platform grows, these centralized

Looking AT the Blue Skies of Bluesky
components might become bottlenecks. Based on our measure-
ments, we estimate that the Firehose already outputs≈ 30GB of
data per day per subscribed client. In the long run, the platform
might need to decentralize these components to scale further.
Legal compliance. Bluesky PBC introduces an inclusive approach
to content moderation. While some content is hidden by default, it
is still processed and served by the platform. This approach might
be problematic if users introduce problematic content such as copy-
righted material or child sexual abuse material. Furthermore, the
platform uses a git-like structure for storing data. Content can be
marked as deleted, but can be still recovered from the reposito-
ries. This might be problematic from the perspective of privacy-
protecting laws such as GDPR.
Interoperability. Bluesky is built on top of the AT protocol [25],
which is extensible and designed to host multiple applications. Our
analysis of the repositories shows that non-Bluesky content is al-
ready present in the network, indicating that the ATProto fulfills
its role as an extendable base layer to build social applications upon.
However, the platform is currently not interoperable with exter-
nal social applications (e.g. Mastodon) that run on another open
protocol – ActivityPub [1]. Greater interoperability could be key in
increasing activity in Bluesky. Given the similar focus on openness
and user portability of applications supporting the ActivityPub
protocols would be a good candidate and existing bridges already
point to this possibility. We note that discussions on the integration
are already ongoing in the community.14
Economics. The Bluesky network is currently fueled by the Bluesky
PBC, enthusiasts, and early adopters. Our analysis of account and
Feed Generator descriptions suggests that multiple users raise
money via dedicated services (e.g. patreon.com, ko-fi.com) or point
to alternative services hosting the users’ and compensating cre-
ators (e.g. youtube.com, twitch.tv). Bluesky PBC does not currently
suggest introducing advertisements. However, our analysis of mul-
tiple forums and discussions around Bluesky suggests that multiple
creators consider introducing ads as posts included in their feed
or Feed Generators. In the long run, the ecosystem will require
economic incentives to become sustainable and compete with cen-
tralized platforms such as Twitter/X that recently started sharing
its revenue with content creators [2].
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank the anonymous referees for their
valuable comments and helpful suggestions. This work was sup-
ported by the German Research Foundation (DFG) within the Col-
laborative Research Center (CRC) SFB 1053: MAKI (https://gepris.
dfg.de/gepris/projekt/210487104).
References
[1] [n. d.]. ActivityPub Specification. https://www.w3.org/TR/activitypub/. Accessed
on 15 May, 2024.
[2] [n. d.]. Ads Revenue Sharing. https://help.twitter.com/en/using-x/creator-ads-
revenue-sharing. Accessed on 15 May, 2024.
[3] [n. d.]. Mastodon Statistics. https://mastodon-analytics.com/. Accessed on 15
May, 2024.
[4] [n. d.]. NOSTR: A decentralized social network with a chance of working. https:
//nostr.com/. Accessed on 29 April, 2024.
14https://github.com/bluesky-social/atproto/discussions/1716
[5] [n. d.]. Perguntas Frequentes do Usuário Bluesky (Português). https://bsky.social/
about/blog/04-10-2024-user-faq-br. Accessed on 15 May, 2024.
[6] [n. d.]. X (Twitter) Statistics: How Many People Use X? https://backlinko.com/
twitter-users. Accessed on 15 May, 2024.
[7] Leonhard Balduf, Maciej Korczyński, Onur Ascigil, Navin V Keizer, George
Pavlou, Björn Scheuermann, and Michał Król. 2023. The Cloud Strikes Back:
Investigating the Decentralization of IPFS. In Proceedings of the 2023 ACM on
Internet Measurement Conference. 391–405.
[8] J Bayer, Y Nosyk, O Hureau, S Fernandez, S Paulovics, A Duda, and M Korczynski.
2022. Study on Domain Name System (DNS) abuse – Technical report. Appendix 1 .
Publications Office of the European Union. https://doi.org/doi/10.2759/473317
[9] Haris Bin Zia, Jiahui He, Ignacio Castro, and Gareth Tyson. 2024. Fediverse
Migrations: A Study of User Account Portability on the Mastodon Social Network.
In Proc. of ACM Internet Measurement Conference (IMC) .
[10] Haris Bin Zia, Aravindh Raman, Ignacio Castro, Ishaku Hassan Anaobi, Emil-
iano De Cristofaro, Nishanth Sastry, and Gareth Tyson. 2022. Toxicity in the
decentralized web and the potential for model sharing. Proceedings of the ACM
on Measurement and Analysis of Computing Systems 6, 2 (2022), 1–25.
[11] Lucio La Cava, Sergio Greco, and Andrea Tagarelli. 2021. Understanding the
growth of the Fediverse through the lens of Mastodon. Applied Network Science
6 (2021), 1–35.
[12] Lucio La Cava, Sergio Greco, and Andrea Tagarelli. 2022. Information consump-
tion and boundary spanning in decentralized online social networks: the case of
mastodon users. Online Social Networks and Media 30 (2022), 100220.
[13] Lucio La Cava, Sergio Greco, and Andrea Tagarelli. 2022. Network analysis of the
information consumption-production dichotomy in mastodon user behaviors.
In Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media ,
Vol. 16. 1378–1382.
[14] CNBC. [n. d.]. Social media platform Bluesky attracts millions in Brazil after
judge bans Musk’s X . https://www.cnbc.com/2024/09/04/social-media-platform-
bluesky-attracts-millions-in-brazil-after-judge-bans-musks-x-.html. Accessed
on 11 Sep, 2024.
[15] Michal Danilak et al. 2021. langdetect. https://pypi.org/project/langdetect/.
[16] Sarah Frier, Naomi Nix, and Sarah Kopit. 2021. Why Free Speech on the Internet
Isn’t Free for All. International New York Times (2021), NA–NA.
[17] Christian Gribneau, Michael Prorock, Orie Steele, Oliver Terbu, Mike Xu, and
Dmitri Zagidulin. 2023. DID WEB Method (did:web). https://perma.cc/WB8M-
8ECW.
[18] Barbara Guidi, Andrea Michienzi, and Laura Ricci. 2020. A graph-based socioe-
conomic analysis of steemit. IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems
8, 2 (2020), 365–376.
[19] Anaobi Ishaku Hassan, Aravindh Raman, Ignacio Castro, Haris Bin Zia, Emiliano
De Cristofaro, Nishanth Sastry, and Gareth Tyson. 2021. Exploring content
moderation in the decentralised web: The pleroma case. InProceedings of the 17th
International Conference on emerging Networking EXperiments and Technologies .
328–335.
[20] Jiahui He, Haris Bin Zia, Ignacio Castro, Aravindh Raman, Nishanth Sastry, and
Gareth Tyson. 2023. Flocking to mastodon: Tracking the great twitter migration.
In Proceedings of the 2023 ACM on Internet Measurement Conference . 111–123.
[21] Daniel Holmgren, Bryan Newbold, Devin Ivy, and Jake Gold. 2023. DID PLC
Method (did:plc). https://github.com/did-method-plc/did-method-plc.
[22] Lars Andreassen Jaatun, Anders Ringen, and Martin Gilje Jaatun. 2022. Yet
Another Blockchain-based Privacy-friendly Social Network. In2022 IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Cloud Computing Technology and Science (CloudCom) . IEEE,
222–229.
[23] Ujun Jeong, Bohan Jiang, Zhen Tan, H. Russell Bernard, and Huan Liu. 2024.
BlueTempNet: A Temporal Multi-network Dataset of Social Interactions in
Bluesky Social. arXiv:2407.17451 [cs.SI] https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17451
[24] Ujun Jeong, Ayushi Nirmal, Kritshekhar Jha, Susan Xu Tang, H. Russell Bernard,
and Huan Liu. 2024. User Migration across Multiple Social Media Platforms.
arXiv:2309.12613 [cs.SI] https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.12613
[25] Martin Kleppmann, Paul Frazee, Jake Gold, Jay Graber, Daniel Holmgren, Devin
Ivy, Jeromy Johnson, Bryan Newbold, and Jaz Volpert. 2024. Bluesky and the
AT Protocol: Usable Decentralized Social Media. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03239
(2024).
[26] Victor Le Pochat, Tom Van Goethem, Samaneh Tajalizadehkhoob, Maciej Ko-
rczyński, and Wouter Joosen. 2019. Tranco: A Research-Oriented Top Sites
Ranking Hardened Against Manipulation. In NDSS.
[27] Stephen McQuistin, Peter Snyder, Colin Perkins, Hamed Haddadi, and Gareth
Tyson. 2023. A first look at the privacy harms of the public suffix list. In Proceed-
ings of the 2023 ACM on Internet Measurement Conference . 383–390.
[28] Dorian Quelle and Alexandre Bovet. 2024. Bluesky: Network Topology, Polariza-
tion, and Algorithmic Curation. arXiv:2405.17571 [cs.SI] https://arxiv.org/abs/
2405.17571
[29] Aravindh Raman, Sagar Joglekar, Emiliano De Cristofaro, Nishanth Sastry, and
Gareth Tyson. 2019. Challenges in the decentralised web: The mastodon case. In
Proceedings of the internet measurement conference . 217–229.
[30] Alan Z Rozenshtein. 2023. Moderating the fediverse: Content moderation on
distributed social media. J. Free Speech L. 3 (2023), 217.

Leonhard Balduf et al.
[31] Adam Satariano. 2021. Facebook Hearing Strengthens Calls for Regulation in
Europe. International New York Times (2021), NA–NA.
[32] Manu Sporny, Dave Longley, Markus Sabadello, Drummond Reed, Orie Steele,
and Christopher Allen. 2022. Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) v1.0. https://www.
w3.org/TR/did-core/.
[33] Dominic Tarr, Erick Lavoie, Aljoscha Meyer, and Christian Tschudin. 2019. Se-
cure Scuttlebutt: An Identity-Centric Protocol for Subjective and Decentralized
Applications (ICN ’19). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY,
USA, 1–11. https://doi.org/10.1145/3357150.3357396
[34] Leanne Townsend and Claire Wallace. 2017. The ethics of using social media
data in research: A new framework. In The ethics of online research . Emerald
Publishing Limited, 189–207.
[35] Yiluo Wei, Dennis Trautwein, Yiannis Psaras, Ignacio Castro, Will Scott, Aravindh
Raman, and Gareth Tyson. 2024. The Eternal Tussle: Exploring the Role of
Centralization in{IPFS}. In 21st USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems
Design and Implementation (NSDI 24) . 441–454.
[36] Alma Whitten and J Doug Tygar. 1999. Why Johnny Can’t Encrypt: A Usability
Evaluation of PGP 5.0.. In USENIX security symposium, Vol. 348. 169–184.
[37] Wenrui Zuo, Aravindh Raman, Raul J Mondragón, and Gareth Tyson. 2023.
Set in Stone: Analysis of an Immutable Web3 Social Media Platform (WWW
’23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1865–1874.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3543507.3583510
A Additional Data
We provide additional information on Feed Generator As a Service
platforms (Table 5) and the complete table of reaction times of
labelers to posts published via the Firehose (Table 6).
B Ethics
We believe that the benefits of our research significantly outweigh
potential harms. This work helps understand the implications of
opening and decentralizing social network platforms. We take mul-
tiple actions to minimize any potential harm. We exclusively collect
publicly available information and follow well established ethical
procedures for social data [34]. We make no attempt to link activi-
ties to other accounts or real-world identifies and the collected data
is stored securely within a university silo, and no external access is
given. Prior to initiating our scans, we contacted the Bluesky team
to agree upon a scanning rate that would not disrupt the normal
functioning of their service. Additionally, and to ensure a mini-
mal impact, we implement a solution that exclusively downloads
repositories if their content has changed since the last snapshot.
We identified issues preventing this originally and upstreamed fixes
to the Bluesky open-source projects.
When analyzing the public endpoints of community labeling
services we deduce their IP addresses while subscribing to them
for labels, which is intended behavior. Analyses of the IP addresses
themselves happened locally on university machines.

Looking AT the Blue Skies of Bluesky
Table 5: Comparing the top 5 feed generator builders/services.
Feature Skyfeed Bluefeed Blueskyfeeds goodfeeds Blueskyfeedcreator
Inputs
Whole network ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Tags ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Single user ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
List ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Feed ✓ ✓
Single post ✓ ✓ ✓
Labels ✓ ✓
Token ✓
Segment ✓
Filters
Item ✓ ✓
Labels ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Image count ✓
Link count ✓
Repost count ✓
Embed ✓
Duplicate ✓
List of users ✓ ✓ ✓
Language ✓ ✓ ✓
Regex
Text ✓
Image Alt ✓
Link ✓
Other Features
Number of Feeds 35,415 2,302 1,797 929 158
Paid or Free free free free free free & paid

Leonhard Balduf et al.
Table 6: Reaction time of Labelers to Posts Published via the Firehose.
Labels Applied Reaction Time [s]
Rank DID Top Values # Unique # Total Share (%) Median IQD
1 did:plc:wp7hxfjl5l4zlptn7y6774lk no-alt-text, non-alt-text, mis-alt-
text
4 1 ,360,224 72 .91 0 .58 0 .10
2 did:plc:ar7c4by46qjdydhdevvrndac porn, sexual, nudity 32 279 ,002 14 .95 1 .76 0 .70
3 did:plc:newitj5jo3uel7o4mnf3vj2o twitter-screenshot, bluesky-
screenshot, uncategorised-
screenshot
14 76 ,599 4 .11 3 .70 3 .81
4 did:plc:mjyeurqmqjeexbgigk3yytvb tenor-gif, tenor-gif-no-text 2 73 ,875 3 .96 0 .35 0 .20
5 did:plc:bpkpvmwpd3nr2ry4btt55ack ai-imagery 1 56 ,517 3 .03 0 .82 0 .21
6 did:plc:fcikraffwejtuqffifeykcml shadowbringers, endwalker, dawn-
trail
6 10 ,024 0 .54 2 .07 0 .82
7 did:plc:3eivfiql4memqxkryeu4tqnk ai-related-content, spoiler, test-
label
3 7 ,646 0 .41 1 .32 0 .78
8 did:plc:j67mwmangcbxch7knfm7jo2b trolling, transphobia, racial-
intolerance
13 876 0 .05 13 ,911.90 53 ,085.19
9 did:plc:vrjubqujt3v46z5poehh4qfg pup, fatfur, diaper 18 631 0 .03 34 ,408.43 65 ,282.36
10 did:plc:3ehw5dwwptcy3xuzugwq2u6t beans 1 49 < 0.01 90 .39 5 ,089.05
11 did:plc:skibpmllbhxvbvwgtjxl3uao simping, bad-selfies, cringe 5 32 < 0.01 70 ,413.53 121 ,503.24
12 did:plc:olmiw2wkm3qoxinal7w5fbnl lowquality, shorturl, unknown-
source
6 26 < 0.01 104 ,584.57 236 ,752.45
13 did:plc:e4elbtctnfqocyfcml6h2lf7 alf, sensual-alf, the-format 3 18 < 0.01 38 ,417.71 61 ,154.18
14 did:plc:exlb5xx2t4pgtjqzdm6ntsgh severity-alert-blurs-content,
severity-alert-blurs-media, severity-
alert-blurs-none
9 18 < 0.01 937 .55 584 .76
15 did:plc:4vf7tgwlg6edds2g2nixyjda spam-aff-ja, spam, porn 4 16 < 0.01 534 ,935.10 429 ,626.79
16 did:plc:gcbmhqcuvuoz7jgmlanabiuv so-true, epic, based 4 16 < 0.01 526 .03 3 ,413.47
17 did:plc:5o2g6wwchb3tgwrhl2atauzu !warn, threat, triggerwarning 10 14 < 0.01 109 ,931.10 373 ,967.40
18 did:plc:36inn6r2ttwfrt6tpywsjcmt coulro, arachno, lepidoptero 6 11 < 0.01 260 ,511.95 297 ,492.05
19 did:plc:cnn3jrtucivembf66xe6fdfs neutral-pro-discourse, anti-
discourse
2 10 < 0.01 2 ,120.64 47 ,340.94
20 did:plc:mcskx665cnmnkgqnunk6lkrk spoilers, !no-promote, !no-
unauthenticated
3 4 < 0.01 1 ,585,404.55 3 ,100,279.22
21 did:plc:z2i5ah5elywxdcr64i7xai3z nipps, no-church, non-handshake 3 4 < 0.01 154 ,416.53 95 ,557.08
22 did:plc:7fkqmr7dfu6vanyxvjtloos3 !warn, porn, spam 3 3 < 0.01 5 ,203.95 95 ,853.62
23 did:plc:j2zujaxuq33c7nbcqyvgvyvk amplifying-disinfo 1 3 < 0.01 5 ,445.06 9 ,348.35
24 did:plc:hxgctysbwhc3bap3a5c7gdu3 beanhate, feature-scold 2 2 < 0.01 5 ,900.41 4 ,489.93