The Cloud Strikes Back: Investigating the Decentralization of IPFS
Leonhard Balduf
Technical University of Darmstadt
Darmstadt, Germany
leonhard.balduf@tu-darmstadt.de
Maciej Korczyński
Univ. Grenoble Alpes
Grenoble, France
maciej.korczynski@univ-grenoble-
alpes.fr
Onur Ascigil
Lancaster University
Lancaster, United Kingdom
o.ascigil@lancaster.ac.uk
Navin V. Keizer
University College London
London, United Kingdom
navin.keizer.15@ucl.ac.uk
George Pavlou
University College London
London, United Kingdom
g.pavlou@ucl.ac.uk
Björn Scheuermann
Technical University of Darmstadt
Darmstadt, Germany
scheuermann@kom.tu-darmstadt.de
Michał Król
City, University of London
London, United Kingdom
michal.krol@city.ac.uk
ABSTRACT
Interplanetary Filesystem (IPFS) is one of the largest peer-to-peer
filesystems in operation. The network is the default storage layer
for Web3 and is being presented as a solution to the centralization
of the web. In this paper, we present a large-scale, multi-modal
measurement study of the IPFS network. We analyze the topology,
the traffic, the content providers and the entry points from the
classical Internet.
Our measurements show significant centralization in the IPFS
network and a high share of nodes hosted in the cloud. We also shed
light on the main stakeholders in the ecosystem. We discuss key
challenges that might disrupt continuing efforts to decentralize the
Web and highlight multiple properties that are creating pressures
toward centralization.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Networks→ Peer-to-peer networks; Network measurement;
Network structure; Peer-to-peer protocols.
KEYWORDS
ipfs, peer-to-peer networks, decentralization
1 INTRODUCTION
Interplanetary Filesystem (IPFS) [7] is one of the largest peer-to-
peer (P2P) filesystem currently in operation. The platform under-
pins various decentralized web applications [43], including social
networking and discussion [38, 41], data storage [45, 49, 58], con-
tent search [37, 53], messaging [76], content streaming [2, 3, 87]
gaming [26, 39], and e-commerce [15, 17]. IPFS is widely used as ex-
ternal storage for blockchain-based applications, including valuable
NFT platforms [4, 14].
The IPFS network currently contains a steady number of ≈
30, 000 [80] online nodes, spread across 2,700 Autonomous Sys-
tems and 152 countries, according to a recent study [78] that also
observed widespread usage by clients with 7.1 million content re-
trieval operations observed from a single vantage point and during
a single day. Support for accessing IPFS has further been integrated
into HTTP gateways ( e.g., Cloudflare) and mainstream browsers
such as Opera and Brave, allowing easy uptake.
IPFS is being presented as the default storage layer for Web3 with
a strong focus on decentralization [46]. Storage decentralization is
supposed to offer multiple benefits [30, 63]. Data is spread among
many replicas, making privacy-intrusive data mining more difficult.
Data ownership is more transparent, and the lack of centraliza-
tion makes the overall system more robust against technical, legal
or regulatory attacks. However, these properties may also bring
inherent challenges that are difficult to avoid, particularly when
considering the natural pressures towards centralization in both
social [82] and economic [72] systems.
Contributions. In this paper, we evaluate the current state of
the IPFS network with a focus on decentralization and make the
following contributions. We build tools for multidimensional ob-
servation of the IPFS network. In contrast to previous studies [78],
we not only discover the system participants but also the traffic
generated by the network. This includes the distributed hash ta-
ble (DHT) [51] and Bitswap [16], the two core IPFS protocols used
for data discovery and exchange. Furthermore, we observe multiple
entry points to the IPFS ecosystems (e.g., HTTP gateways, browser
extensions, Ethereum Name System (ENS)) using passive and ac-
tive DNS measurements. We then analyze our 9-month dataset to
provide insights into the state of the network, content exchange
patterns and peer behaviour. We assess the centralization of the
network and its reliance on cloud components. Finally, we discuss
the drivers behind centralization and explore techniques that could
reduce this propensity.
Findings. Overall, our main findings include (1) We observe that
almost 80% of the IPFS DHT servers are hosted in the cloud with
the top 3 cloud providers hosting 51.9% of the servers. Our results
paint a different picture of the IPFS network from the one presented
in a recent study [ 78] reporting less than 3% of the cloud-based
nodes. We explain the reason behind the differences and show
how small changes in the measurement methodology can lead to
different conclusions. (2) We found that the network experiences
arXiv:2309.16203v2  [cs.NI]  30 Sep 2023

Leonhard Balduf, Maciej Korczyński, Onur Ascigil, Navin V. Keizer, George Pavlou, Björn Scheuermann, and Michał Król
a high degree of traffic centralization. The top 5% of the nodes
are responsible for up to 95% of the traffic with the largest cloud
provider, Amazon-AWS, generating96% of all the content resolution
requests. We also found cloud-based storage platforms such as
nft-storage or web3-storage holding a major share of persistent
content in the network. (3) We show that content storage is heavily
reliant on the cloud infrastructure. Nearly 95% of the content is
provided by at least one cloud-based node. Furthermore, many
non-cloud providers use cloud nodes as proxies for NAT traversal.
(4) We show that major CDN players, such as Cloudflare, dominate
the IPFS HTTP gateway ecosystem. Furthermore, even IPFS content
referenced by the decentralized Ethereum Name System (ENS) is
mostly stored by a handful of major cloud providers.
2 BACKGROUND
In this section, we provide the necessary background information
to understand the systems involved, and the methodology used to
produce the measurements presented in this work. We start with a
description of IPFS in general, followed by detailed explanations
of its network protocols, content provision and retrieval mecha-
nisms, as well as DNSLink and Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
gateway functionality.
IPFS. IPFS is a content-centric network where nodes are iden-
tified via their peer ID, which is derived from the public key of a
unique key pair. By default, nodes maintain the same ID over time
but a new one can be generated on request. Each node advertises
a set of network endpoints describing their IP address, transport
protocol and port number. One peer ID can be associated with
multiple endpoints (e.g., multihoming), and one IP address can be
associated with multiple peer IDs (e.g., when hosting multiple nodes
on a single machine).
In IPFS, each piece of content is identified by a content identifier
(CID). A CID for item𝑑 is derived by hashing the content of𝑑, so
that CID(𝑑) =ℎ(𝑑) for some cryptographic hash functionℎ.1
CIDs do not contain information about the content location, are
immutable (changing the content generates a new CID), and are
not human-readable. This enables easy content deduplication, data
retrieval from the closest available location, and maintaining data
integrity. However, it also means that a downloader first needs to
resolve a CID to a list of providers, i.e., nodes storing the content,
before the actual content transfer. The resolution is done using
a Kademlia [51] DHT and the Bitswap protocol. Figure 1 shows
typical interactions between entities in the network, which we will
now explain in more detail.
Bitswap. Bitswap [16] is a simple protocol used to exchange
blocks of data. Typically, IPFS nodes maintain Bitswap connections
to a few hundred random peers.2 The protocol allows one to ask a
peer whether it has a target block or to directly request and transfer
the target content (cf. Figure 1 5 ).
DHT. IPFS uses a Kademlia [51] DHT implementing a key-value
store. A new participant node joins theIPFS network by contacting
one of the hardcoded bootstrap nodes. This bootstrap node provides
1In practice, the CIDs include some metadata and are encoded using a self-describing
format. We refer the readers to other studies [78] for a more detailed description.
2This number may differ depending on the configuration.
. . . . . .𝑑1 𝑑2 𝑑3
Resolvers, close to𝑐
DHT
𝑏1 𝑏2
Nodes contacted via Bitswap
Provider𝑝
has CID 𝑐 Downloader
Gateway
ipfs.io
HTTP Client
wants
example.com
DNS Resolver
example.com?
CID:𝑐
Gateway:ipfs.io
GET𝑐 Data
Provide
(𝑐,𝑝
)
Provider:
𝑝
FindProviders
(𝑐)
W ant(𝑐)
W ant(𝑐)
Data
1
2
3
4
56
7
8
9
10
Figure 1: Illustrations of IPFS Provide and Request Function-
alities.
the new node with some initial peers allowing it to join the DHT.
The new node uses this information to perform a walk through the
DHT towards its own peer ID to discover peers and fill its routing
table.
The main operation GetClosestPeers(key) traverses the DHT
and returns the𝑘 closest peers to the target key. In each step, the
querying node contacts the closest nodes tokey it knows of. Each of
these peers returns the𝑘 closest peers tokey in its own routing table
and the addresses of these peers. The querying node again sends
requests to the peers closest to key, among peers it just received.
This process repeats until the client does not find any more peers
closer to key.
Recent versions of the software differentiate betweenDHT servers
and DHT clients. The latter only use the DHT as a service for
resolution and routing, which is provided through DHT servers.
To become a DHT server, the software determines whether it is
connectable from the internet (as opposed to, e.g., NAT-ed). Only
connectable nodes become DHT servers unless the user explicitly
modifies their configuration. Generally, the set of DHT clients can
be understood as the user-operated fringe of the network, con-
sisting of nodes behind NAT, whereas the DHT servers form the
network’s core.
Content Advertisement. When a user adds content to the net-
work, it adds it to its local node and uses the DHT to advertise
itself as a provider for the CID representing the content. First, it
creates a provider record that contains𝑐 and its own network in-
formation. During a Provide(𝑐) operation, the provider first uses
GetClosestPeers(𝑐) to locate the𝑘 = 20 peers closest to𝑐, and
then sends them a PutProvider message including the provider
record. We call the peers that hold provider records for 𝑐 the re-
solvers for𝑐. (cf. Figure 1 1 )
By default, each IPFS client becomes a provider for each piece of
content it downloads and automatically registers itself as a provider

The Cloud Strikes Back: Investigating the Decentralization of IPFS
for the corresponding CID. As a result, the system provides an
auto-scaling feature with supply automatically rising with demand.
A provider without a public IP address ( e.g. DHT client) can-
not directly receive download requests for the content it provides,
unless it is already connected to the downloader via Bitswap. Gen-
erally, NAT-ed nodes first establish a connection to a random DHT
server supporting the relay protocol that will act as a reverse proxy
and NAT-punching introducer. The provider includes the IP address
of the proxy in the provider records it generates. As of v0.13, IPFS
includes a NAT hole-punching mechanism called direct connection
upgrade through a relay (DCUtR), which is functionally similar to
the one used in the SSU protocol of the I2P network [60, 77].
Content Retrieval. Downloading a data item 𝑑 with CID𝑐 is a
two-step process: (1) providers for 𝑐 are found (cf. Figure 1 5 ,
6 , 7 ), (2) connections to the providers are established and 𝑑 is
downloaded from them directly via Bitswap ( 8 , 9 ).
The search for providers begins with a local, 1-hop broadcast via
Bitswap ( 5 ) to all connected neighbours looking for the targetCID.
Searching via Bitswap is fast, but does not provide reliable content
resolution, in particular for less popular or new content. If this does
not yield any results, the downloader invokes FindProviders(𝑐)
using the DHT ( 6 ). This operation uses a DHT walk identical
to that of GetClosestPeers(𝑐) to find up to𝑘 resolvers but also
queries encountered nodes for a provider record for 𝑐. The pro-
cess terminates when either 20 providers have been found, or all
resolvers have been asked ( 7 ). The downloader concurrently initi-
ates Bitswap connections to the discovered providers and retrieves
the requested content ( 8 , 9 ).
Entry Points. Accessing content with IPFS can be considered
complex due to a few reasons. Downloading IPFS content requires
installing additional software, joining the P2P network and using
custom protocols. While CIDs ensure content integrity and prevent
tampering, they can be long and difficult for users to remember or
share compared to traditional URLs or domain names. Furthermore,
the identifier changes with every modification of the content. For
instance, modifying a website hosted on IPFS creates a completely
new CID that must be communicated to all the website viewers.
Another limitation is browser support: traditional web browsers
are designed to work with the HTTP/HTTPS protocols and may
not have native support for IPFS. To simplify content access, IPFS
implements multiple tools bridging the gap with the traditional
Web.
HTTP Gateways. Gateways translate HTTP GET requests to con-
tent retrievals in IPFS and enable IPFS-agnostic users to access the
content (cf. Figure 1 4 , 10 ).
When a gateway receives an HTTP GET for a CID, it (1) checks
its local cache (2) finds and downloads the content using IPFS,
and (3) returns the content to the client using HTTP. Protocol Labs
maintains a list of public gateways [40], some of which are operated
by large content delivery networks such as Cloudflare. Previous
studies showed extensive usage of gateways and their noticeable
share of traffic in the IPFS network [4, 5].
DNSLink. DNSLink [42] enables content publishers to associate
domain names with IPFS content. It integrates the traditional DNS
with IPFS, enabling users to access IPFS content using familiar
domain names instead of intricate CIDs (cf. Figure 1 2 , 3 ).
DNSLink leverages DNS records to establish a connection be-
tween a specified domain name, such as example.com, and an
IPFS address. It is achieved by storing a DNS TXT record within
a dedicated subdomain beginning with the _dnslink label (e.g.,
_dnslink.example.com). The structure of the TXT record follows
the guidelines outlined in RFC 1464 [65], which defines a formatted
representation as <key>=<value>. Within the DNS TXT record, one
can find either of the following entries: dnslink=/ipfs/<CID> or
dnslink=/ipns/<hash of public key> . The first one associates
the CID directly with the domain name, whereas the second one
associates the IPNS key’s hash value with the domain. The second
approach enables redirecting users, e.g., a website visitor, to the
most recent version of an object in IPFS, considering that modifying
an object alters its CID.
To ensure that content stored on IPFS can be accessed, do-
main name owners need to configure their root domain (e.g.,
example.com) or subdomain (e.g., subdomain.example.com) to
point to an IPFS gateway or proxy server. This configuration can be
done in two ways: (1) assigning the IP address of the IPFS gateway
or proxy server as the value of the A record for the domain, or
(2) setting a CNAME or ALIAS record that matches the domain of the
IPFS gateway or proxy server. By following either of these meth-
ods, domain name owners can establish the necessary connection
between their domain or subdomain and the IPFS gateway or proxy
server, enabling the retrieval of content stored on IPFS.
If the DNS provider supports ALIAS records, they are generally
recommended for pointing the root domain to an IPFS gateway
or proxy server. For instance, to configure the example.com do-
main, a domain name owner can add the following ALIAS record
in the zone file: example.com ALIAS gateway.ipfs.io , directing
example.com to a public gateway operated by Protocol Labs. Simi-
larly, a subdomain can be configured with a CNAME record such as
subdomain.example .com CNAME cloudflare-ipfs.com , direct-
ing it to a public gateway operated by Cloudflare.
Ethereum Name Service (ENS). The Ethereum Name Service (ENS)
[68] is an alternative name-registry service for Web3 which al-
lows users to register name-value pairs directly on the Ethereum
blockchain [84]. One of the prominent use cases of ENS is to provide
a mapping from human-readable domain names to cryptographic
hashes such as IPFS CIDs, without relying on the centralization in
the current DNS infrastructure in the form of Top-Level Domain
(TLD) ownership and reliance on ICANN.
Namespace management in ENS is governed by several smart
contracts. TheRegistry maintains a top-level mapping of all domains
and subdomains to their owner, resolver, and caching time-to-live.
Registrar contracts maintain ownership of individual domains (e.g.
.eth) and their subdomains. Finally, the resolver contract for a
(sub)domain points towards a value mapping set by the owner such
as an Ethereum address or IPFS CID and assists users in resolving
names in a decentralized manner.

Leonhard Balduf, Maciej Korczyński, Onur Ascigil, Navin V. Keizer, George Pavlou, Björn Scheuermann, and Michał Król
3 METHODOLOGY AND COLLECTED
DATASETS
In this section, we explain the methodology employed in this work,
and the datasets derived through it. An architectural overview,
showing how different functionalities of IPFS nodes are measured,
is shown in Figure 2. We make all code processing data available
at [6].
Topology graph. As explained in Section 2, IPFS builds on top
of a Kademlia DHT, with nodes being partitioned into clients
and servers. A node with address 𝑎𝑛 stores its outbound DHT-
connections in𝑘-buckets, which form a view of the network as a
binary trie. Buckets have a fixed capacity of𝑘 connections, which
generally leads to the first, furthest, buckets to be filled completely,
whereas buckets closer to𝑎𝑛 tend to contain fewer and fewer con-
nections. Only peers providing DHT server functionality are stored
in the buckets.
It is possible to enumerate allDHT connections of a node through
crafted FindNode messages, sweeping the address space towards
the target node’s own address 𝑎𝑡𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒𝑡 . This process is generally
known as DHT crawling [32, 57].
Using the DHT crawler presented in [32, 79], we can enumerate
all outgoing DHT connections of functional DHT server nodes.
This results in a snapshot of the DHT graph𝐺DHT, at the time of
crawling. In practice, not all nodes are connectable and cooperative,
which leads to un-crawlable leaf nodes in the graph. We crawl the
network at least twice per day from 2023-04-18 to 2023-05-26, for
a total of 101 snapshots. We discover an average of 25771.6 peers
per crawl, of which 17991.4 are connectable and crawlable. A crawl
takes 5.0m on average, of which the latter half is typically spent
waiting on unresponsive peers, with a connection timeout of 3m.
Short crawl durations are important to capture accurate snapshots
of the network due to churn [13, 22, 73, 74], and long connection
timeouts ensure completeness [74].
Counting Methodologies. We propose a methodology to derive
properties of a typical snapshot theIPFS DHT, which is dynamic by
default. Every node on the IPFS network is identified by a unique
peer ID. Nodes can announce multiple IP addresses for themselves,
which are stored in the DHT. An example of our dataset, with an
additional mapping from IP addresses to geolocation, is shown in
Table 1. From this example, we will try to derive the typical client
population and its geospatial distribution.
Table 1: Example Crawl Dataset
Crawl ID Peer ID IP Geolocation
1 𝑝1 𝑎1 DE
1 𝑝1 𝑎2 DE
1 𝑝2 𝑎3 US
2 𝑝2 𝑎2 DE
2 𝑝2 𝑎3 US
2 𝑝2 𝑎4 US
Nodes are typically announcing multiple IP addresses, which
may differ in geolocation. The easiest way to resolve this is by
counting unique IPs and their mappings, over the entire dataset.
This ignores the time-discrete nature of the network snapshots but
gives an estimate of the population of the network over the entire
data collection period. It overcounts peers announcing multiple
IPs, especially ones with frequently changing IPs, and includes
churning nodes in the count. For the example dataset, this results
in DE=2, US=2. We refer to this methodology as Global, Unique IP
(G-IP), which is conceptually similar to the one employed in [78].
To combat the problem of overcounting nodes with multiple
addresses, we propose to assign each peer a single value of the
derived property in question, in this case, geolocation. We can then
count peers, the participants of the overlay network, instead of
underlay addresses. We propose to use a majority vote to decide
on a property.
Still, counting peers over all crawls fails to estimate the value
of a property for a typical DHT graph. Specifically, it overcounts
nodes regenerating their peer ID and churning nodes. It can be
tackled by considering each crawl as a separate snapshot of the
network, for which a property is derived, and then average over all
crawls. It is not sufficient to examine a single crawl, as this misses
nodes that are offline during that point in time. As such, we propose
A verage over Crawls, Unique Nodes(A-N), which assigns each peer a
value per crawl and averages over all crawls, which, for the example
dataset, produces DE=0.5, US=1. This is intuitively correct: There
is one stable node, probably situated in the US, and one node with
50% uptime in Germany.
The single-crawl average number of nodes obtained through
is A-N 25771.6. the number of unique peer IDs in aggregate over
all 101 crawls is 53898. A peer advertised an average of 1.82 non-
local IP addresses across all crawls, which results in 86064 unique
non-local IP addresses (G-IP).
Bitswap logs. Content retrieval in IPFS always starts with a
provider discovery phase. This, currently, uses a local 1-hop broad-
cast via Bitswap to connected neighbours and subsequently searches
the DHT. Using the monitoring infrastructure described in [5], we
can monitor this discovery traffic of a large portion of the network
via monitors. These are modified Go IPFS implementations with
unbounded connection capacity, which log all incoming Bitswap
traffic to disk. We run one Bitswap monitoring node which continu-
ously collected data from August 2022 to May 2023. We refer to this
dataset as the raw, unmodified Bitswap traces. The traces are a sub-
set of all Bitswap traffic in the network, because the monitor, albeit
with unbounded connection capacity, is not connected to everyone
in the network. Additionally, as explained in Section 2, only the
initial provider discovery request is broadcast via Bitswap. Lastly,
we only see locally broadcast requests, not unicast responses.
In addition to the raw, unmodified Bitswap traces, we process
the data further to obtain a daily sample of requestedCIDs. For that,
we aggregate all request traffic for a day and extract all requested
CIDs. These are then deduplicated and a fixed amount of 200k is
randomly sampled. We refer to this dataset asdaily sampled Bitswap
CIDs.
Hydra-booster logs. We set up a modified version of Hydra-
booster [48] to collect the IPFS DHT traffic. The Hydra-boosters
acts as a DHT server with multiple, virtual peer IDs co-located on a
single virtual machine. We use Hydra-booster with 20 virtual peer

The Cloud Strikes Back: Investigating the Decentralization of IPFS
IPFS Node
Content Provider
Functionality
Content Requester
Functionality
(Public) Gateway
Functionality
DHT Buckets
IPFS Node
Content Provider
Functionality
Content Requester
Functionality
(Public) Gateway
Functionality
DHT Buckets
...
IPFS Node
Content Provider
Functionality
Content Requester
Functionality
Public Gateway
Functionality
DHT Buckets
Requests
Data
Caching
IPFS Network
Bitswap Mon-
itoring Node
Aggregate Daily Extract CIDs,
Deduplicate
Uniform SampleDaily Sampled
Bitswap CIDs
Raw Bitswap
Requests
Requests
via Bitswap
Bitswap Monitoring
Request
Generate Unique
Content Gateway Probe
Public Gate-
way IDs
HTTP
RequestsProvide via
Gateway Identification
Provider Record
Searcher Provider Records
Find
Providers
Provider Record Search
Hydra Booster
Hydra Logs
Requests
via DHT
Provider
Records
DHT Monitoring
DHT Crawler
Overlay Topology
Extract
DHT Crawling
Passive DNS
Measurements
HTTP Gate-
way Usage
Passive DNS
Figure 2: Data Collection Architecture, Overview.
IDs and modify it to write all the incoming DHT requests to disk.
We log the timestamp, the sender’s peer ID and IP address, the type
of the request, and the target key (peer ID or CID depending on the
message type). We also log the proxy DHT server if the original
sender uses NAT traversal mechanisms (Section 2). Apart from
collecting the traffic, our software acts as a regular DHT server
following the IPFS specification.
We collect traffic over two time periods: from August 2022 to
November 2022 and from February 2023 until April 2023 resulting in
290M messages. Based on our observation, an average DHT query
contacts 50 different nodes and the network contains 25,000 DHT
servers. We thus estimate that our Hydra node captures around 4%
of the entire IPFS DHT traffic.
Provider Records. A peer can initiate a FindProviders(𝑐) opera-
tion to retrieve provider records for CID𝑐. This operation collects
up to 20 providers for a given CID𝑐, terminating when either 20
providers of𝑐 have been found or all the resolvers (i.e. 20 closest
peers to𝑐) have been queried for provider records of𝑐.
We modified the FindProviders(𝑐) implementation to termi-
nate only when all the resolvers of𝑐 have been queried in order to
retrieve all the provider records for the CIDs. Using this modified
IPFS DHT implementation, we retrieved all the provider records
of the CIDs from the daily sampled Bitswap CIDs datasets start-
ing from 23 April 2023 until 20 May 2023 for a total of 28 days.
The resulting dataset contained 5.6 million CIDs and their provider
records. We retrieved the provider records of each daily set ofCIDs
on the same day they were collected.
Gateways. Public gateways translate between HTTP and IPFS.
While their HTTP endpoints are public, their overlay IDs are gen-
erally unknown. We can identify these gateways on the overlay
network through our Bitswap monitoring infrastructure in combi-
nation with specially crafted requests.
To identify a gateway, we generate a unique, random piece of
data, and store it on our monitoring nodes. We can be reasonably
certain that we are the only provider of this data in the network.
We then request this data through the HTTP-side of a public gate-
way. This will trigger the usual discovery and request mechanisms,
which, eventually, result in a request via Bitswap to our monitoring
node. From this request, we can learn the overlay ID and address
of the gateway.
Notably, many large gateway providers operate multiple IPFS
nodes to serve their traffic reverse proxied and served from a single
HTTP endpoint. While we can only identify one of these nodes per
request, repeating these probes over time results in the discovery
of multiple overlay IDs. Eventually, we can be relatively certain to
have identified all operational gateway nodes.
Of the 83 HTTP endpoints listed in the public gateway list, we
find 22 gateways that functioned at least once, and 119 unique
overlay IDs associated with these. These numbers are in line with
the ones reported via the public gateway checker tool [40].
Active and Passive DNS. To estimate the number of domain
names utilizing IPFS for content delivery through the DNSLink
mechanism, we employ active and passive DNS data sources.
Our active scanning input list comprises domain names collected
in April 2023 from the following sources: (1) centralized Zone Data
Service [33] for both legacy and new generic TLDs (e.g., .org or
.xyz) (2) publicly available zone files of three country-code TLDs:
.se, .nu [25], .ch [75] (3) Google Certificate Transparency logs [9]
(4) Tranco top popularity domain name ranking [56], and (5) passive
DNS data kindly provided by SIE Europe [69].

Leonhard Balduf, Maciej Korczyński, Onur Ascigil, Navin V. Keizer, George Pavlou, Björn Scheuermann, and Michał Król
We filter the domain names using Mozilla’s Public Suffix list [24]
and retain only the root domain names ( e.g., example.com or
example.com.uk). Next, using the zdns [34] scanner and Cloud-
flare Public DNS, we send DNS SOA (Start of Authority) requests to
determine registered domain names while excluding those resulting
in an NXDOMAIN response code, indicating non-existing domains.
Our resulting list consists of 286M root domain names.
Administrators need to configure a DNS TXT record on a dedi-
cated subdomain starting with the _dnslink label to indicate the
CID or the IPNS key’s hash value associated with the domain.
Hence, for each domain name, we append the _dnslink label (e.g.,
_dnslink.example.com or _dnslink.example.com.uk) and per-
form an active scan to retrieve the TXT records, verifying if they
contain properly formatted DNSLink entries. We actively scan for
DNS A resource records on domains with valid DNSLink entries
to ascertain whether the owner has configured a public IPFS gate-
way or another proxy server. Note that our measurements do not
include the identification of subdomains using IPFS for content de-
livery. The _dnslink prefix can be added to any subdomain, such
as _dnslink.subdomain.example.com.
Finally, our objective is to compare the list of IP addresses of
domain names using IPFS for content storage with the IP addresses
of public gateways. One approach is to perform active scans by
querying DNS A resource records for the domain names of public
gateways [40]. However, this approach has a limitation because
DNS servers may provide different responses based on the geo-
graphic location of the querying client. To address this limitation,
we leverage one month of passive DNS data provided by SIE Europe
from March 2023. From this data, we extract all the observed IP
addresses associated with the domain names of public gateways.
It is important to note that if a gateway operator utilizes Anycast
DNS [52], where the same IP address is advertised on multiple
nodes, measurements from a single location would not impact the
results.
Ethereum Name Service. We examine ENS records pointing to
IPFS CIDs. To collect our ENS dataset, we employ a similar method-
ology as used in [ 85]. Resolver contracts maintain information
regarding name mappings. Therefore, we start by compiling an
exhaustive set of 16 resolver smart contracts from prior work and
Etherscan [21], and extract and traverse through the full history of
event logs using the Etherscan API.
We filter for the setContenthash() function call, as defined in
EIP-1577 [20], which allows for a content hash to be set as the value
of the record. From these, we specifically filter for records pointing
to ipfs_ns records, finding a total of 20.6k records. We attempt to
resolve the CID for each record to fetch providers of the content,
finding 16.8k provider records, out of which there were 9k unique
IPs.
4 THE NETWORK
We examine the IPFS overlay through the DHT crawl dataset. We
discover an average of 25771.6 peer IDs per crawl, of which 17991.4
are crawlable. Over the entire dataset we observe 53898 peer IDs
and 86064 unique IP addresses.
Cloud Nodes. First, we investigate the ratio of nodes hosted on
major cloud providers in contrast to the number of non-cloud nodes.
Similar to a previous study by Trautwein et al. [78], we employ the
Udger IP database [81], which maps IP addresses to known cloud
providers. If there are no entries for a given address in the database,
we mark it as non-cloud. For peers announcing multiple cloud IP
addresses, we assign the majority provider. If a peer announces
both cloud and non-cloud IP addresses, we assign it a BOTH label.
Figure 3 shows the ratio of cloud nodes found in the DHT. Sur-
prisingly, we discover a strong reliance on the cloud infrastructure.
An average of 20300 (79.6%) of the nodes are hosted in data centers,
with only 4737 (18.6%) non-cloud nodes. Crawls of the IPFS DHT
only enumerate DHT servers, which require a public IP address.
The move towards cloud nodes can thus be explained by IPFS users
having their regular machines hidden behind NAT. However, such
strong reliance on the cloud threatens the decentralization property
of the system as the DHT forms the core of the platform.
Our results contrast with a previous study from 2022 [78] show-
ing less than 3% of cloud nodes in the DHT. We discovered that
the inconsistency is due to a difference in aggregation and count-
ing methodology (cf. Section 3) and a difference in the frequency,
and thus number, of crawls. The previous study creates a set of
all unique IP addresses found across a large number of crawls (re-
gardless of their relationship with the peer IDs) and then performs
cloud provider attribution. This results in 34375 (39.9%) addresses
on cloud providers, and 51689 (60.1%) non-cloud addresses. We
argue that this approach does not reflect the actual, typical state
of the network. As we show later, non-cloud IPFS nodes tend to
be short-lived and frequently change their IP addresses, artificially
inflating their share in the network.
We further showcase this phenomenon in Figure 4 showing the
ratio of cloud to non-cloud nodes as a function of the number of
aggregated crawls using both methodologies. Using the approach
from Trautwein et al. [78] makes the ratio of non-cloud nodes
increase with the number of aggregated crawls. This is because
non-cloud nodes frequently rotating their IPs and churning nodes
are counted multiple times. On the other hand, aggregating the
ratio of cloud to non-cloud nodes using our approach result in
steady ratio values. For the remainder of this section, we show
results using both approaches to showcase how different views of
the network can be obtained.
Figure 3: Participants of the IPFS DHT by Cloud Status, Com-
parison Between Counting Methodologies.
Cloud Providers. In Figure 5, we take a closer look at the cloud
providers hosting IPFS nodes. We find that the majority (7492, 29.3%)

The Cloud Strikes Back: Investigating the Decentralization of IPFS
Figure 4: The ratio of Cloud to Non-Cloud Nodes as a Function
Over Cumulative Successive Crawls, comparison between
counting methodologies.
of nodes are hosted on choopa and the three main providers host
13259 (51.9%) of nodes. This is a much stronger dependency on a
single cloud provider than for other decentralized networks such
as Mastodon, where only 6% of the nodes are hosted on Amazon
AWS [64]. Interestingly, using the alternative methodology [ 78]
reduces choopa’s share to 13.8%. Furthermore, some providers such
as digital ocean have a relatively lower share using this methodology.
This might suggest that nodes hosted on these providers rotate their
IP addresses less frequently.
Figure 5: Nodes of the IPFS DHT Graph by Cloud Provider.
Geolocation. Next, we investigate the geospatial distribution of
nodes in the overlay (Figure 6). For this, we geolocate each node’s
addresses using the MaxMind GeoLite2 [50] database. The majority
of nodes are situated in the United States (47.4%), Germany (13.7%),
and Korea (5.2%) while only 13.3% are located outside the top 10
countries. Note that this is independent of our vantage point, be-
cause we crawl the entire DHT. This is in contrast to the results
obtained via [78], where the majority of peers reside in the United
States (33.0%), China (11.1%), and Germany (8.0%), with non-top-
ten countries accounting for 22.9%. This is caused by short-lived
IPs located in less represented countries that change frequently
between crawls.
Node degree. Using our DHT crawl dataset, we recreate the topol-
ogy of the overlay network. Out of 25771.6 DHT servers, 17991.4
responded to our crawl requests, on average. For those nodes, we
learn their complete𝑘-buckets, i.e., all outgoing DHT connections,
Figure 6: Nodes of the IPFS DHT Graph by Origin Country.
which correspond to the edges in our graph. The incoming connec-
tions are not directly available in the𝑘-buckets, we thus estimate
every node’s in-degree by their presence in other peers’ buckets.
This undercounts the true in-degree, as we cannot crawl all nodes.
The results of these investigations on a single graph from May 12th
2023 are shown in Figure 7.
The out-degree of nodes generally lies within a small band, which
is ultimately dictated by the parameter𝑘. Even though IPFS holds a
large number of potentially unstructured connections, only a subset
of those, accounting for the structured Kademlia overlay, is stored
in fixed-size buckets [32].
The in-degree, on the other hand, is not dictated by Kademlia’s
𝑘-buckets. These are a subset of all connections of a node, which are
limited through a connection manager, attempting to keep between
600 and 900 open connections. 3 Nodes may increase this value
to improve the chances of discovering content providers through
Bitswap (cf. Section 2).
We observe a few high in-degree nodes, pointing to those nodes
having a high number of connections in general. These nodes are
contacted more often for DHT walks and perform central func-
tionalities for the network. This creates points of centralization,
as outages within highly connected nodes will have a dispropor-
tionate impact on the overall graph structure [1]. Out of the top 10
in-degree nodes, two are running a modified client by Filebase [23],
a pinning service, the others are seemingly regular go-ipfs v0.11
nodes, out of which 8 are hosted on Amazon AWS. In general,
though, most nodes have an in-degree of less than≈ 200, with the
90th percentile being below≈ 500.
Resistance to node removals. Finally, we investigate the impact of
node removals to analyze the tolerance to attacks and failures [1,
31, 35, 64, 86]. We select a random crawl from May 12th 2023 with
24414 total and 16676 crawlable nodes, which we interpret as an
undirected graph. This allows all observable connections of a node
(DHT inbound and outbound) to be used for communication, in-
cluding Bitswap.
We apply two different strategies of node removals to the graph:
(1) Random, which picks a node at random, and (2) targeted, which
picks the node with the highest degree. After each removal, we
compute the connected components of the graph and count what
portion of the remaining nodes is part of the largest [31]. We repeat
3These are preconfigured values, which were changed between IPFS releases.

Leonhard Balduf, Maciej Korczyński, Onur Ascigil, Navin V. Keizer, George Pavlou, Björn Scheuermann, and Michał Król
Figure 7: Degree Distribution of Nodes of the IPFS DHT
Graph, Cumulative Density Function.
the random removal 10 times to be able to show a 95% confidence
interval around the mean. The results of this are shown in Figure 8.
Figure 8: Resilience of the undirected IPFS DHT Graph to
Random and Targeted Node Removals. Note the truncated
vertical axis.
The network is very robust to random removals. The largest
component spans 96% of remaining nodes even after randomly
removing 90% of nodes. This has been attributed to networks being
scale-free [1], i.e., having a skewed distribution of node degrees.
This is commonly found in structured P2P networks [66]. These
results compare favourably to an earlier study done on IPFS in
2019 [31], which finds that only≈ 50% of nodes remain connected
at this point.
Targeted removal is more effective in disconnecting nodes from
the system. The network ends up completely partitioned into com-
ponents of size 1 after≈ 60% of nodes were removed. This, still,
points towards good resistance to node removals: A recent study
on the resilience of the Mastodon social graph to targeted removal
of users [64] found that removing even≈ 10% of central user ac-
counts leaves the majority of users outside the largest connected
component. For the Twitter graph, this occurs at≈ 30%. Our results
compare favourably even to the earlier experiment on the IPFS
DHT, which finds complete partitioning after≈ 40% of nodes were
removed.
It thus seems that the IPFS overlay, being very robust to ran-
dom failures and only somewhat susceptible to targeted attacks,
possesses properties both of structured [66] and unstructured [73]
networks. This is in line with prior considerations on the robust-
ness of the network [ 5, 32]. The network has even improved in
robustness since the study performed in 2019 [ 31], which found
that unconnectable leaf nodes can be removed easily with targeted
attacks. These leaf nodes have been largely eliminated from the
DHT in recent versions due to the differentiation between DHT
servers and clients. Note, however, that we simplified the graph to
be undirected, which allows Bitswap to be used on all edges, but
ignores that Bitswap broadcasts only travel one hop. As such, even
though the network stays mostly connected, it is not guaranteed
that content stays available equally. A more nuanced analysis is
left for future work.
5 THE TRAFFIC
In this section, we investigate the traffic generated by the IPFS
network. We use and compare our Bitswap and Hydra-booster
datasets. We classify the DHT traffic into content-relateddownloads
(e.g. requesting providers for a specific CID) and advertisements
(e.g. announcing a new provider for a specific CID). We ignore all
the other types of messages (e.g. nodes joining the network). We
observe 290M messages where download-related traffic represents
57%, advertisement-related traffic 40% and other types of messages
3%. Importantly, our traffic traces include the NAT-ed peers ( i.e.
DHT clients) that were not visible in the previous section. Although
Hydra-boosters receive traffic from DHT clients, their traffic is not
distinguishable from the traffic by DHT servers. In Section 6, we
present a better picture of how NAT-ed DHT clients impact content
hosting in IPFS.
General metrics. First, we explore the temporal properties of the
IPs, peerIDs and CIDs found in our Hydra-booster logs (Figure 9).4
We define frequency as the number of different days where we
observe the item. The vast majority of the CIDs are downloaded or
advertised only for 1-3 days. This suggests that IPFS is mostly used
for direct content transfer rather than persistent storage.
The majority of IPs and peerIDs are also short-lived. The re-
sult for the IPs suggests IP rotation and further explains result
differences for two methodologies in Section 4. We observe a large
portion of cloud nodes in general but their share increases for IPs
seen over many days. The short-lived nature of the peerIDs is also
surprising. By default, IPFS clients keep their peerIDs across multi-
ple restarts. This suggests that many users use the network for a
single interaction.
ID centralization. We then investigate the centralization of the
traffic through the lens of the peerIDs (Figure 10) and distinguish
between gateway and non-gateway nodes based on our gateway
dataset. For both Bitswap and DHT, we observe high centralization
of the traffic far beyond the Pareto 20%-80% principle. 5% of the
most active peerIDs are responsible for almost97% of the traffic. The
gateway ratio differs significantly for both protocols (≈ 1% for DHT,
≈ 18% for bitswap). We suspect that this is caused by a large number
of Bitswap connections maintained by each gateway and fixed links
to the industrial content providers such as pinata or nft.storage.
4We exclude Bitswap logs from this analysis due to the sheer volume of data. Analyzing
a random sample of the logs would not preserve the temporal properties.

The Cloud Strikes Back: Investigating the Decentralization of IPFS
(a) CID
 (b) IP
 (c) PeerID
Figure 9: Request frequency per identifier (in days seen). Note the y-axis log scale.
The gateways thus satisfy a vast majority of content requests via
Bitswap and do not rely on the DHT for content resolution.
Figure 10: DHT/Bitswap peerID simplified Pareto chart.
IP centralization. We repeat the centralization experiments this
time looking at IPs and distinguishing between cloud and non-
cloud nodes (Figure 11). We observe a similar, high centralization
of the traffic with 5% of the most active IP addresses responsible
for almost 94% of messages. For the DHT, cloud nodes are the
most active ones in the network generating a staggering ≈ 85%
of the traffic. The non-cloud nodes, while similar in number, are
much less active and are responsible for only≈ 15% of the traffic.
The distribution is similar for both download- and advertisement-
related traffic (omitted on the graph). The Bitswap logs show a
much smaller but still significant share of cloud nodes (≈ 42%). We
explain this phenomenon in the paragraphs below.
Cloud providers. In Figure 12 (top graph), we analyze all IPs
present in our logs distinguishing between traffic related to content
downloading and advertising and indicating the most popular cloud
providers. 35% overall ratio of cloud-based nodes. This is a smaller
ratio than found during the network crawls (79% in Section 4). This
is understandable, as the network crawls do not include the nodes
behind NAT. We observe a similar division across cloud providers
with choopa, vultr and contabo being the most popular ones, but
an increased share of nodes hosted at Amazon AWS. Surprisingly,
the cloud-based nodes are more present in the traffic related to
downloading files (≈ 45%) than in the advertising traffic (≈ 34%).
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
DHT
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Bitswap
all
cloud
non-cloud
% of IPs
% of the traffic
Figure 11: DHT/Bitswap IP simplified Pareto chart.
Figure 12: Cloud per traffic type
We repeat the analysis but this time we take into account the
traffic generated by each IP address (Figure 12 bottom graph). Again,
we observe that the cloud-based nodes are much more active and
are responsible for≈ 93% of the traffic. The ratio goes up to≈ 98%
for download-related traffic. The share of Amazon AWS raises to a
staggering 68% followed by packet host being jointly responsible
for 82% of the traffic.
IPFS-based platforms. To complete the picture of the IPFS traffic,
we analyze the applications/platforms responsible for the traffic.

Leonhard Balduf, Maciej Korczyński, Onur Ascigil, Navin V. Keizer, George Pavlou, Björn Scheuermann, and Michał Król
First, we obtain a set of peerIDs of Hydra-booster nodes operated
by Protocol Labs and hosted on Amazon AWS. Those nodes were
deployed in the network to speed up the DHT lookups. For all the
non-Hydra IPs, we perform reverse DNS lookups (Figure 13).
Figure 13: Platforms generating traffic based on reverse DNS
lookups.
The Hydra-booster nodes are responsible for 35% of all the DHT
traffic and 50% of the download traffic. However, it is not visible
in the content advertising traffic. When a Hydra-booster receives
a DHT content resolution request, it acts as a regular DHT node.
First, it checks its cache for the relevant provider records. If those
are unavailable, the Hydra-booster returns a list of peers closer
to the target CID. However, the Hydra-booster also initiates its
own lookups for all the requested CIDs that are not found in the
cache, trying to proactively fill the cache for future requests. This
behaviour exposes an easy Denial of Service vector. Asking a Hydra-
booster for non-existing content generates significant amounts of
traffic in the network. We are unable to confirm whether such
intentional attacks happened during our measurement period or
whether Hydra-booster nodes simply amplify regular requests for,
potentially non-existing, content. This explains the higher share
of cloud-based nodes in the DHT compared to the Bitswap traffic
in Figure 11 and a higher share of Amazon AWS download-related
traffic (Figure 12).
On the other hand, a few storage platforms using IPFS ( web3-
storage and nft3-storage) dominate the DHT advertise-related traffic.
Those platforms offer practical persistent storage over IPFS using
cloud infrastructure and thus periodically advertise all their CIDs
in the network and explain the high cloud usage in the advertise-
related DHT traffic (Figure 11, Figure 12). The Bitswap traffic is
dominated by ipfs-bank which is an HTTP gateway platform. Unfor-
tunately, we were not able to discover the purpose of the remaining
traffic originating from Amazon AWS. While convenient for the
end users and increasing accessibility, those platforms significantly
contribute to the centralization of the network.
6 THE CONTENT PROVIDERS
In this section, we focus on the providers of content on IPFS. A
provider record is a mapping of CID to multiaddresses — a self-
describing address format, e.g., /ip4/1.10.20.30/tcp/29087/ipfs/<peer
ID>, that embeds provider’s connectivity information and peer ID.
We collect all the provider records of 5.6 million CIDs over 28 days.
As provider records may be stale, i.e. a provider may have gone
offline, we verified the reachability of the providers at the time of
retrieving the provider record and ignored the unreachable ones.
Figure 14: Classification of providers.
In IPFS, NAT-ed peers (i.e. DHT clients) can still provide content.
This is done through a circuit relay protocol [59] where the NAT-ed
peers keep a connection with arelay (i.e. a DHT server with a public
IP) that reverse proxies the connection requests to make the NAT-ed
peers reachable. When a NAT-ed peer advertises content, it provides
a keyword circuit and the relay’s IP address in its multiaddress.
Peer analysis. We categorize each unique provider peer ID based
on its IP address(es) as one of: NAT-ed, cloud-based, non-cloud-
based, and hybrid (Figure 14). The NAT-ed peers account for a
significant portion (35.57%) of the providers. The cloud-based peers
are the majority of the providers (45%), while 18% of the peers are
non-cloud peers with public IPs. On the other hand, a very small
percentage of the providers (i.e. 0.58%) had a mix of cloud and non-
cloud IP addresses (hybrid in Figure 14). Those peers either have
two instances in both cloud and non-cloud nodes or have moved
during the provider record collection as we take a snapshot of a
content’s providers only once.
Figure 15: A simplified Pareto chart of peer IDs.
In the bottom plot of Figure 14, we present the distribution of
relay nodes used by the NAT-ed peers. We observe that around
80% of the NAT-ed peers use a cloud-based peer as a relay node.
This means that a large portion of NAT-ed peers makes use of
cloud-based nodes to provide content.
Provider popularity. We look into the popularity of each provider
in terms of the number of times each appears in the collected
provider records (Figure 15). A small percentage of peers appear
in a large percentage of provider records. Around 1% of the peers

The Cloud Strikes Back: Investigating the Decentralization of IPFS
appear as one of the providers in approximately 90% of the records.
A large portion (i.e. 70%) of these popular providers are cloud-based,
while NAT-ed peers appear in less than 8% of the records. On the
other hand, the non-cloud providers (with public IP addresses)
appear in around 22% of the provider records.
Figure 16: CIDs classified based on their providers.
Content-level analysis. A single CID can be hosted by multiple
providers. We explore the properties of the content in terms of its
reliance on cloud-based peers. For each content, we calculate the
percentage of its cloud-based providers among all of its providers
(shown as “% Cloud” in Figure 16). In this calculation, we classified
NAT-ed providers as non-cloud peers. Nearly 95% of the content
is provided by at least one cloud-based provider. At the same time,
for 91% of the content, at least half of the providers are cloud-based
and 23% of the content is provided only by cloud-based peers. On
the other hand, an alternate interpretation posits that around 77%
of the CIDs have at least one non-cloud provider.
To sum it up, content hosting in IPFS is heavily reliant on cloud-
based infrastructure. Cloud nodes are not only dominant in content
hosting, but they also serve as relays for a large portion of NAT-ed
content providers.
7 THE ENTRY POINTS
In this section, we investigate entry points to IPFS. Namely, HTTP
Gateways and two systems mapping human-readable domain names
to IPFS CIDs.5
DNSLink. DNSLink allows resolving domain names to CIDs us-
ing the DNS. However, each correct record must contain an HTTP
gateway through which the CID can be fetched (Section 2). Fig-
ure 17 presents the distribution of these IP addresses across cloud
providers. Similarly to our previous measurements, only 20% of the
gateways are non-cloud nodes. This is understandable, as gateways
require a public IP and high availability to operate efficiently. How-
ever, we observe different popularity of specific cloud providers.
50% of the IP addresses are hosted by Cloudflare alone. Cloudflare
actively supports IPFS, for instance, by operating one of the most
popular public HTTP gateways that can be easily used for DNSLink.
Surprisingly, we observe only 21% of the IPs belonging to public
gateway domains [40].
5IPFS also provides IPNS - one more way of mapping human-readable names to CIDs.
We skip this mechanism as it is internal for IPFS and is equivalent to regular CID
fetching already covered in Section 5.
0% 15% 30% 45% 60% 75%
cloudflare_inc
non-cloud
amazon_aws
other
datacamp
google_cloud
google
Provider
(a) Cloud providers
0% 15% 30% 45% 60% 75%
non-gateway
cloudflare-ipfs.com.
via0.com.
ipfs.io.
ipfs-gateway.cloud.
other
telos.miami.
Gateway
(b) Gateways
Figure 17: DNSLink statistics for records pointing to IPFS
content providers
Gateways. We investigate IPFS gateways themselves using the
gateway ID and passive DNS datasets. We collect the domain names
of public gateways and those referenced by DNSLink records. We
distinguish between HTTP-facing (i.e. accepting HTTP requests)
and overlay-facing (i.e. issuing requests to the IPFS network) IP
addresses.
Figure 18: Unique IP Addresses of Gateway Frontends and
Overlay Nodes by Cloud Provider.
Figure 19: Unique IP Addresses of Gateway Frontends and
Overlay Nodes by Geolocation.
Similar to the DNSLink data, we find heavy reliance on Cloud-
flare (Figure 18). This is unsurprising for the HTTP frontends, as
Cloudflare is commonly employed as a reverse proxy and protection
service, a practice equally often criticized for creating central points

Leonhard Balduf, Maciej Korczyński, Onur Ascigil, Navin V. Keizer, George Pavlou, Björn Scheuermann, and Michał Król
of failure [10]. Conversely, some of these gateways may actually
be located in other autonomous systems, or hosted on different
providers. However, we also find a large number of IPs provided by
Cloudflare on the overlay side. It appears that these IPs are internal
to Cloudflare, utilized to reverse proxy the overlay connections of
their Gateways.6 A notable number of gateways are running on
non-cloud systems. This is commendable and potentially due to the
open nature of the gateway ecosystem: In principle, anyone can op-
erate a gateway and add themselves to the public register [40]. Note
that, with the exception of Cloudflare, gateway providers generally
do not operate their own AS.
Geolocating both the HTTP frontend IP addresses as well as the
overlay addresses using the MaxMind GeoLite2 [50] database, we
find that the majority of nodes are situated in the United States
and Germany (Figure 19), similar to the overall trends observed in
the DHT (cf. Section 4). The large number of frontend IP addresses
situated in the Netherlands could be a result of our vantage point
in Germany. The geolocation of overlay addresses is unaffected by
our vantage point.
Ethereum Name Service. Combining IPFS with ENS is a popular
approach to scale content delivery in Web3. ENS records point to
CIDs that can be later downloaded from IPFS. We extract a list
of IPFS providers for each CID referenced by ENS and analyze
them in the context of cloud providers (Figure 20.a). The results are
consistent with the previous measurements: 82% of the content is
hosted on cloud nodes with the main providers being choopa, vultr
and contabo.
We then investigate the geolocation of the providers (Figure 20.b)
and observe that the majority of content (60%) is concentrated in
the US and Germany alone. Even with the ENS records being held
on a blockchain, the actual retrieval of the referenced content is
centralized and heavily dependent on a few cloud providers.
0% 10% 20% 30% 40%
other
choopa
non-cloud
vultr
contabo_gmbh
amazon_aws
digitalocean
Provider
(a) Cloud providers
0% 10% 20% 30% 40%
US
other
DE
GB
KR
SG
FR
Country
(b) Geolocation
Figure 20: Content provider statistics for IPFS content on
ENS records (taking unique IPs)
6We are currently confirming this with Cloudflare.
8 RELATED WORK
DHT Measurements. Numerous studies investigated the state
and performance of various DHTs implementation such as KAD
[66, 70, 71] or BitTorrent DHT [11, 22, 36, 83]. In contrast, we focus
on the multimodal analysis of multiple protocols used in IPFS.
IPFS. We add to a growing body of research on IPFS [7]. Hen-
ningsen et al. [31, 32] develop a crawler for theIPFS network we use
for this work. Their DHT analysis from December 2019 finds lower
overall robustness to node removal than our study. We attribute this
to improvements in the DHT since 2019, most notably the removal
of unconnectable leaf nodes. Balduf et al. [5] investigate privacy
issues relating to unstructured Bitswap broadcasts. [13] focuses on
network participants and their churn. Daniel et al. [12] provide a
comprehensive overview of the IPFS ecosystem and its components
but without performing any measurements. Trautwein et al. [78]
gives an overview of the functionality of IPFS and measures its
client population over an extended period of time. Other studies
describe security vulnerabilities leading to eclipse [61] or censor-
ship [28] attacks or investigate how IPFS can be used to spread
malware [55].
Assessing Decentralization. Networks, both in nature and commu-
nications, have been analyzed for their properties and robustness be-
fore. In their seminal work, Albert et al. showcased how many com-
plex networks, including the internet and social networks, are resis-
tant to random failures due to being scale-free [1]. More recently,
such analyses have been applied to Diaspora [8], and Mastodon [64]
as well as the Bitcoin and Ethereum blockchains [27, 29]. Sadly, and
similar to our study, those papers usually report a higher level of
centralization than expected for their respective platforms. To the
best of our knowledge, we are the first to analyze and assess the
decentralization of IPFS in a comprehensive way.
9 DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION
We find evidence of a heavy IPFS reliance on cloud infrastructure
that is visible in the network topology, generated traffic, content
provider records and its entry points. This dependency threatens
the core design goals of the IPFS such as censorship resistance,
robustness and openness.
One of the main challenges of IPFS remains the inability of
NAT-protected nodes to fully participate in the network. It limits
the number of full DHT participants, putting more pressure on
the public-IP nodes. Furthermore, hosting content using proxies
increases centralization and reliance on cloud nodes. IPFS supports
a NAT-traversal protocol that requires assistance from a public-IP
node only during the connection setup [60, 67], but NAT-punching
clients still function as DHT clients only. However, in the long run,
the wider deployment of IPv6, and thus the removal of IPv4 NAT,
seems like a more sustainable solution.
The Hydra-booster nodes deployed by Protocol Labs were sup-
posed to speed up the content resolution by acting as a large
provider records cache and DHT query speed amplifier. They are
thus cloud-based and operated by a single entity. On the other hand,
the presence of Hydra-boosters is not an entirely bad thing as the
DHT can still function properly, should the Hydra-booster nodes
disappear.

The Cloud Strikes Back: Investigating the Decentralization of IPFS
A more concerning idea is the recent introduction of network
indexers that are entirely hosted in the cloud [ 44]. The indexers
gather information about all the content stored on IPFS and can
resolve it much faster than the current DHT lookups. Content
resolution is a core functionality of the platform and its control by
a single entity gives its operator the power to block content ( e.g.
when pressured by the government).
In general, cloud-based resolution is always faster than decen-
tralised lookup. Its deployment may be thus important for multiple
latency-sensitive applications. At the same time, we strongly advise
keeping the DHT as a fallback resolution mechanism to maintain
the decentralization of the network. More research on more effi-
cient DHTs (or similar resolution networks) is also needed to close
the performance gap between the two solution classes.
Protocol Labs introduced multiple commendable solutions (e.g.
Brave integration, HTTP Gateways, DNSLink) making the network
easy to use for non-tech-savvy users and boosting its adoption.
However, if done incorrectly, they can also introduce centralization.
For instance, Brave users can currently choose between a self-
hosted IPFS node and a default, cloud-based gateway. Changing
the default gateway to a random one supported by a dynamic,
permissionless discovery system could maintain simplicity while
avoiding reliance on cloud infrastructure.
Currently, the IPFS network is used as a file transfer system
rather than decentralized storage, based on the short lifetime of
data items. At the same time, storage persistence is provided by a
handful of centralized, cloud-based providers. Mechanisms such
as Filecoin [62] could help to solve this problem by providing in-
centives for storing content. However, it is unclear whether decen-
tralized storage nodes can compete with the service quality and
prices of dedicated cloud providers. Furthermore, a decentralized
swarm of peers cannot provide reliable storage guarantees without
a reliable replication mechanism allowing some nodes to go offline
while guaranteeing that the data is always available.
Overall, the IPFS design creates a solid foundation for a sustain-
able, efficient and decentralized storage network. We hope that by
highlighting the current challenges, we can help to address them
in future releases of the protocol.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors would like to thank the anonymous referees for their
valuable comments and helpful suggestions. The authors express
their gratitude to the contributors of passive DNS data to the Eu-
ropean Data Sharing Collective — SIE Europe. This work was sup-
ported by Protocol Labs under Grant No. PL-RGP1-2021-054. This
work was also supported by the German Research Foundation
(DFG) within the Collaborative Research Center (CRC) SFB 1053:
MAKI (https://gepris.dfg.de/gepris/projekt/210487104). This work
has been partially supported by the Cisco grant number 2020-216508
Hybrid-ICN Interoperability with IPFS.
REFERENCES
[1] Réka Albert, Hawoong Jeong, and Albert-László Barabási. 2000. Error and attack
tolerance of complex networks. nature 406, 6794 (2000), 378–382.
[2] Inc. Audius. 2022. Audius. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://audius.org
[3] The DTube Authors. 2018. DTube. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://d.tube
[4] Leonhard Balduf, Martin Florian, and Björn Scheuermann. 2022. Dude, Where’s
My NFT: Distributed Infrastructures for Digital Art. In Proceedings of the 3rd In-
ternational Workshop on Distributed Infrastructure for the Common Good (Quebec,
Quebec City, Canada) (DICG ’22). Association for Computing Machinery, New
York, NY, USA, 1–6. https://doi.org/10.1145/3565383.3566106
[5] Leonhard Balduf, Sebastian Henningsen, Martin Florian, Sebastian Rust, and
Björn Scheuermann. 2022. Monitoring Data Requests in Decentralized Data
Storage Systems: A Case Study of IPFS. In2022 IEEE 42nd International Conference
on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS) . 658–668. https://doi.org/10.1109/
ICDCS54860.2022.00069
[6] Balduf, Leonhard and Ascigil, Onur and Keizer, Navin V. and Pavlou, George
and Scheuermann, Björn and Korczyński, Maciej. 2023. Code for the IMC23
paper The Cloud Strikes Back: Investigating the Decentralization of IPFS . https:
//github.com/mrd0ll4r/imc23-tcsb
[7] Juan Benet. 2014. Ipfs-content addressed, versioned, p2p file system. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1407.3561 (2014).
[8] Ames Bielenberg, Lara Helm, Anthony Gentilucci, Dan Stefanescu, and Hong-
gang Zhang. 2012. The growth of diaspora-a decentralized online social network
in the wild. In 2012 proceedings IEEE INFOCOM workshops . IEEE, 13–18.
[9] Cali Dog Security. 2022. Certstream. https://calidog.io
[10] Devin Coldeway. 2020. Cloudflare DNS goes down, taking a large piece of the
internet with it. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://techcrunch.com/2020/07/
17/cloudflare-dns-goes-down-taking-a-large-piece-of-the-internet-with-it/
[11] Scott A Crosby and Dan S Wallach. 2007.An analysis of bittorrent’s two kademlia-
based dhts. Technical Report.
[12] Erik Daniel and Florian Tschorsch. 2022. Ipfs and friends: A qualitative com-
parison of next generation peer-to-peer data networks. IEEE Communications
Surveys & Tutorials 24, 1 (2022), 31–52.
[13] Erik Daniel and Florian Tschorsch. 2022. Passively Measuring IPFS Churn
and Network Size. In 2022 IEEE 42nd International Conference on Distributed
Computing Systems Workshops (ICDCSW). IEEE, 60–65.
[14] Dipanjan Das, Priyanka Bose, Nicola Ruaro, Christopher Kruegel, and Giovanni
Vigna. 2022. Understanding Security Issues in the NFT Ecosystem. InProceedings
of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security
(Los Angeles, CA, USA) (CCS ’22). Association for Computing Machinery, New
York, NY, USA, 667–681. https://doi.org/10.1145/3548606.3559342
[15] dClimate Inc. 2021. dClimate. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://www.dclimate.
net
[16] Alfonso De la Rocha, David Dias, and Yiannis Psaras. 2021. Accelerating Content
Routing with Bitswap: A multi-path file transfer protocol in IPFS and Filecoin.
[17] district0x. 2018. Ethlance. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://github.com/
district0x/ethlance
[18] D Dittrich and E Kenneally. 2012. The Menlo Report: Ethical Principles Guiding
Information and Communication Technology Research . https://catalog.caida.org/
paper/2012_menlo_report_actual_formatted
[19] Zakir Durumeric, Eric Wustrow, and J. Alex Halderman. 2013. ZMap: Fast
Internet-Wide Scanning and Its Security Applications. In USENIX Security .
USENIX Association, 605–620.
[20] Dean Eigenmann and Nick Johnson. 2018. ERC-1577: contenthash field for ENS .
https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1577
[21] EtherScan. 2023. Ethereum Blockchain Explorer. https://etherscan.io
[22] Jarret Falkner, Michael Piatek, John P John, Arvind Krishnamurthy, and Thomas
Anderson. 2007. Profiling a million user DHT. In Proceedings of the 7th ACM
SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement . 129–134.
[23] Filebase Inc. 2023. Filebase - IPFS Made Easy . Retrieved Sep 14, 2023 from
https://filebase.com/
[24] Mozilla Foundation. 2007. Public Suffix List . Retrieved May 26, 2023 from
https://publicsuffix.org
[25] The Swedish Internet Foundation. 2019. Zone Data of .se and .nu TLDs. Retrieved
May 26, 2023 from https://internetstiftelsen.se/en/zone-data/
[26] Gala Games. 2020. Gala Games. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://app.gala.
games/games
[27] Adem Efe Gencer, Soumya Basu, Ittay Eyal, Robbert Van Renesse, and Emin Gün
Sirer. 2018. Decentralization in bitcoin and ethereum networks. In Financial
Cryptography and Data Security: 22nd International Conference, FC 2018, Nieuw-
poort, Curaçao, February 26–March 2, 2018, Revised Selected Papers 22 . Springer,
439–457.
[28] François Genon, Sébastien Pierre, Etienne Riviere, and Michał Król. [n. d.]. An
Eclipse attack on content availability in IPFS: a large-scale decentralized storage
service. ([n. d.]).
[29] Arthur Gervais, Ghassan O Karame, Vedran Capkun, and Srdjan Capkun. 2014.
Is bitcoin a decentralized currency? IEEE security & privacy 12, 3 (2014), 54–60.
[30] Ragib Hasan, Zahid Anwar, William Yurcik, Larry Brumbaugh, and Roy Campbell.
2005. A survey of peer-to-peer storage techniques for distributed file systems.
In International Conference on Information Technology: Coding and Computing
(ITCC’05)-Volume II, Vol. 2. IEEE, 205–213.
[31] Sebastian Henningsen. 2022. Empirical and Analytical Perspectives on the
Robustness of Blockchain-related Peer-to-Peer Networks . Ph. D. Dissertation.

Leonhard Balduf, Maciej Korczyński, Onur Ascigil, Navin V. Keizer, George Pavlou, Björn Scheuermann, and Michał Król
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Mathematisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Fakultät.
https://doi.org/10.18452/24401
[32] Sebastian Henningsen, Martin Florian, Sebastian Rust, and Björn Scheuermann.
2020. Mapping the Interplanetary Filesystem. In 2020 IFIP Networking Conference
(Networking). 289–297.
[33] ICANN. 2022. Centralized Zone Data Service . https://czdns.icann.org
[34] Liz Izhikevich, Gautam Akiwate, Briana Berger, Spencer Drakontaidis, Anna
Ascheman, Paul Pearce, David Adrian, and Zakir Durumeric. 2022. ZDNS: A
Fast DNS Toolkit for Internet Measurement (IMC ’22).
[35] Sagar Joglekar, Nishanth Sastry, Neil S Coulson, Stephanie JC Taylor, Anita Patel,
Robbie Duschinsky, Amrutha Anand, Matt Jameson Evans, Chris J Griffiths,
Aziz Sheikh, et al . 2018. How online communities of people with long-term
conditions function and evolve: network analysis of the structure and dynamics
of the asthma UK and British lung foundation online communities. Journal of
medical Internet research 20, 7 (2018), e238.
[36] Sebastian Kaune, Ruben Cuevas Rumin, Gareth Tyson, Andreas Mauthe, Carmen
Guerrero, and Ralf Steinmetz. 2010. Unraveling bittorrent’s file unavailability:
Measurements and analysis. In 2010 IEEE Tenth International Conference on Peer-
to-Peer Computing (P2P). IEEE, 1–9.
[37] Navin Keizer. 2021. Deece. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://github.com/
navinkeizer/Deece
[38] Matters Lab. 2020. Matters News. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://matters.
news
[39] Matters Lab. 2022. Splinterlands. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://
splinterlands.com/
[40] Protocol Labs. 2017. IPFS Public Gateway Checker . Retrieved May 26, 2023 from
https://ipfs.github.io/public-gateway-checker/
[41] Protocol Labs. 2018. Discussify. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://github.com/
ipfs-shipyard/discussify-browser-extension
[42] Protocol Labs. 2019. DNSLink. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://docs.ipfs.
tech/concepts/dnslink/
[43] Protocol Labs. 2020. IPFS Ecosystem directory . Retrieved May 26, 2023 from
https://ecosystem.ipfs.tech/
[44] Protocol Labs. 2022. Introducing the network indexer . https://filecoin.io/blog/
posts/introducing-the-network-indexer/
[45] Protocol Labs. 2022. Space. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://github.com/ipfs-
shipyard/space
[46] Protocol Labs. 2023. IPFS powers the Distributed Web . https://ipfs.tech/
[47] Leonhard Balduf. 2023. Privacy Policy for IPFS Monitoring . https://monitoring.
ipfs.trudi.group/privacy_policy.html
[48] libp2p. 2017. Hydra Booster. https://github.com/libp2p/hydra-booster
[49] RTrade Technologies Ltd. 2020. Temporal. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https:
//temporal.cloud
[50] Maxmind. 2023. GeoLite2 Database. https://www.maxmind.com https://www.
maxmind.com.
[51] Petar Maymounkov and David Mazieres. 2002. Kademlia: A peer-to-peer informa-
tion system based on the XOR metric. In International Workshop on Peer-to-Peer
Systems (IPTPS). Springer.
[52] Danny R. McPherson, David R. Oran, Dave Thaler, and Eric Osterweil. 2014.
Architectural Considerations of IP Anycast. RFC 7094. https://www.rfc-editor.
org/info/rfc7094
[53] Almonit Organization. 2021. Almonit. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https:
//almonit.eth.link/
[54] Craig Partridge and Mark Allman. 2016. Ethical Considerations in Network
Measurement Papers. Commun. ACM 59, 10 (sep 2016), 58–64.
[55] Constantinos Patsakis and Fran Casino. 2019. Hydras and IPFS: a decentralised
playground for malware. International Journal of Information Security 18 (2019),
787–799.
[56] Victor Le Pochat, Tom Van Goethem, Samaneh Tajalizadehkhoob, Maciej Ko-
rczyński, and Wouter Joosen. 2019. Tranco: A Research-Oriented Top Sites
Ranking Hardened Against Manipulation. In Proceedings 2019 Network and Dis-
tributed System Security Symposium .
[57] Johan Pouwelse, Paweł Garbacki, Dick Epema, and Henk Sips. 2005. The bittor-
rent p2p file-sharing system: Measurements and analysis. InPeer-to-Peer Systems
IV: 4th International Workshop, IPTPS 2005, Ithaca, NY, USA, February 24-25, 2005.
Revised Selected Papers 4 . Springer, 205–216.
[58] Ian Preston. [n. d.]. Peergos. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://peergos.org
[59] Protocol Labs. 2022. Circuit Relay Protocol . Retrieved May 26, 2023 from
https://docs.libp2p.io/concepts/nat/circuit-relay/
[60] Protocol Labs. 2022. Hole punching in libp2p - Overcoming Firewalls . Re-
trieved September 12, 2023 from https://blog.ipfs.tech/2022-01-20-libp2p-hole-
punching/
[61] Bernd Prünster, Alexander Marsalek, and Thomas Zefferer. 2022. Total Eclipse of
the Heart–Disrupting the{InterPlanetary} File System. In 31st USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Security 22) . 3735–3752.
[62] Yiannis Psaras and David Dias. 2020. The interplanetary file system and the
filecoin network. In 2020 50th Annual IEEE-IFIP International Conference on De-
pendable Systems and Networks-Supplemental Volume (DSN-S) . IEEE, 80–80.
[63] Manoharan Ramachandran, Niaz Chowdhury, Allan Third, John Domingue,
Kevin Quick, and Michelle Bachler. 2020. Towards complete decentralised veri-
fication of data with confidentiality: different ways to connect solid pods and
blockchain. In Companion Proceedings of the Web Conference 2020 . 645–649.
[64] Aravindh Raman, Sagar Joglekar, Emiliano De Cristofaro, Nishanth Sastry, and
Gareth Tyson. 2019. Challenges in the decentralised web: The mastodon case. In
Proceedings of the internet measurement conference . 217–229.
[65] Rich Rosenbaum. 1993. Using the Domain Name System To Store Arbitrary
String Attributes. RFC 1464. https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1464
[66] Hani Salah, Stefanie Roos, and Thorsten Strufe. 2014. Characterizing graph-
theoretic properties of a large-scale DHT: Measurements vs. simulations. In
2014 IEEE Symposium on Computers and Communications (ISCC) . 1–7. https:
//doi.org/10.1109/ISCC.2014.6912540
[67] Marten Seemann, Max Inden, and Dimitris Vyzovitis. 2022. Decentralized Hole
Punching. In 2022 IEEE 42nd International Conference on Distributed Computing
Systems Workshops (ICDCSW). IEEE, 96–98.
[68] Ethereum Name Service. 2021. ENS Documentation. https://docs.ens.domains
[69] SIE Europe. 2022. Passive DNS Data Sharing . https://www.sie-europe.net
[70] Moritz Steiner, Ernst W Biersack, and Taoufik En-Najjary. 2007. Actively Moni-
toring Peers in KAD.. In IPTPS, Vol. 7. Citeseer, 26–27.
[71] Moritz Steiner, Taoufik En-Najjary, and Ernst W Biersack. 2007. A global view of
kad. In Proceedings of the 7th ACM SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement .
117–122.
[72] George J Stigler. 1958. The economies of scale. The Journal of Law and Economics
1 (1958), 54–71.
[73] Daniel Stutzbach and Reza Rejaie. 2005. Evaluating the Accuracy of Captured
Snapshots by Peer-to-Peer Crawlers.. In PAM. Springer, 353–357.
[74] Daniel Stutzbach and Reza Rejaie. 2006. Capturing accurate snapshots of the
gnutella network. In Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2006. 25TH IEEE International
Conference on Computer Communications . IEEE, 1–6.
[75] SWITCH. 2017. Zone Data of .ch TLD . Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https:
//www.switch.ch/de/open-data/
[76] Berty Technologies. 2018. Berty. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://berty.tech
[77] The Invisible Internet Project. 2022. Secure Semireliable UDP. Retrieved Septem-
ber 12, 2023 from https://geti2p.net/en/docs/transport/ssu
[78] Dennis Trautwein, Aravindh Raman, Gareth Tyson, Ignacio Castro, Will Scott,
Moritz Schubotz, Bela Gipp, and Yiannis Psaras. 2022. Design and evaluation
of IPFS: a storage layer for the decentralized web. In Proceedings of the ACM
SIGCOMM 2022 Conference. 739–752.
[79] trudi group. 2019. IPFS Crawler. https://github.com/trudi-group/ipfs-crawler
https://github.com/trudi-group/ipfs-crawler.
[80] trudi group. 2022. IPFS Network Size Estimates . Retrieved May 26, 2023 from
https://grafana.monitoring.ipfs.trudi.group/
[81] Udger. 2022. Udger Data v3 – 20220606-01 . https://udger.com/ Retrieved 10
February 2023 from https://udger.com/.
[82] Christo Wilson, Bryce Boe, Alessandra Sala, Krishna PN Puttaswamy, and Ben Y
Zhao. 2009. User interactions in social networks and their implications. In
Proceedings of the 4th ACM European conference on Computer systems . 205–218.
[83] Scott Wolchok and J Alex Halderman. 2010. Crawling BitTorrent DHTs for Fun
and Profit.. In WOOT.
[84] Gavin Wood et al. 2014. Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction
ledger. Ethereum project yellow paper 151, 2014 (2014), 1–32.
[85] Pengcheng Xia, Haoyu Wang, Zhou Yu, Xinyu Liu, Xiapu Luo, Guoai Xu, and
Gareth Tyson. 2022. Challenges in decentralized name management: the case of
ENS. In Proceedings of the 22nd ACM Internet Measurement Conference . 65–82.
[86] Osman Yagan, Dajun Qian, Junshan Zhang, and Douglas Cochran. 2013. Con-
joining speeds up information diffusion in overlaying social-physical networks.
IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications 31, 6 (2013), 1038–1048.
[87] ZorrillosDev. 2022. Watchit. Retrieved May 26, 2023 from https://watchit.movie/
A ETHICS
The topology and traffic datasets raise limited ethical concerns.
They involve collecting IP addresses, yet we do not attempt to
map these back to personal identities, as such analysis was not
within the scope of this study. The Bitswap and HydraBooster
datasets additionally contain personal information, as they cover
CID requests and advertisements from the clients. However, we
do not trigger extra data collection. We anonymize IP addresses
and do not perform lookups on the CIDs to infer the nature of the
content exchanged.

The Cloud Strikes Back: Investigating the Decentralization of IPFS
We provide a user-facing website with our data management
policy [47]. We use collected data only for purposes that are per-
missible with respect to Art. 6 (4) GDPR. We operate within the
bounds of European data protection law, specifically Art. 5 (1) (e)
GDPR. We are storing the data for up to 24 months or until we do
not need it anymore to complete our research, whichever comes
sooner. We are constantly reflecting on our data storage practices. If
we conclude that some data fields or whole data sets are no longer
needed for our intended purpose, we will delete them accordingly.
Part of our research is based on active DNS scans and follows
industry best practices in network measurements [18, 19, 54]. To
distribute the load across different authoritative nameservers, we
have implemented randomization in our input list of domain names,
avoiding simultaneous scanning of all domains under the same TLD.
We expect that a portion of our DNS requests has been resolved
from the internal cache of Cloudflare Public DNS resolver.
Furthermore, we tried to minimize the load caused by our
research on the network. In IPFS, the provider records are
stored on the 20 closest nodes to the CID hash. The original
FINDPROVIDERS(CID) query performs a single DHT walk towards
the CID hash and asks all the encountered nodes on the path about
all the providers for the target CID. By default, this walk ends
when either enough provider records have been found or when
all 20 closest peers to the CID were queried. Our version of the
FINDPROVIDERS(CID) call terminates once all 20 closest peers to
the target CID are queried. In our analysis, we found that for 99.55%
of the CIDs, our modified FINDPROVIDERS(CID) call discovered
fewer than 20 providers and thus behaved exactly as the original
FINDPROVIDERS(CID) call. Consequently, for the vast majority
of CIDs, our modification incurred no additional network over-
head. The additional overhead incurred by the remaining 0.45% of
CIDs was limited to obtaining providers from at most 19 additional
peers. Therefore, our modifications to the FINDPROVIDERS func-
tion were implemented to minimize any potential overhead and
ensured that the vast majority of CIDs experienced no additional
network burden.
For the IP geolocation, we used the MaxMind GeoIP database [50].
We downloaded and later locally queried their GeoLite IP database,
which operates entirely offline on our machines. No IP information
left our local machine.