Fair-Weather No More:
Guaranteed Efficiency in Secure Group Messaging
James Bartusek1, Nir Bitansky2, Yevgeniy Dodis2, Rachit Garg2, and David J. Wu3
1Columbia University
2New York University
3UT Austin
Abstract
Secure group messaging protocols, now standardized by the IETF as Messaging Layer Security (MLS), provide
end-to-end encryption for billions of users. The cryptographic core of these protocols is continuous group key
agreement (CGKA), a primitive designed to maintain a shared secret among a dynamic group while providing security
guarantees like forward secrecy and post-compromise security. A critical challenge for CGKA is achieving efficiency,
particularly sublinear complexity (in the size of the group), for group operations. While practical tree-based protocols
like TreeKEM offer logarithmic complexity in ideal (so-called “fair-weather”) scenarios, their performance degrades to
linear in the worst-case, and even realistic average-case, scenarios. This performance collapse raises the fundamental
question of whether any CGKA protocol can achieve provably sublinear worst-case complexity.
Prior work has established significant barriers to this goal, including black-box impossibility results ruling out
efficient constructions from standard public-key encryption. Theoretical solutions circumvent these barriers using
powerful tools like indistinguishability obfuscation (𝑖O), but these constructions are astronomically inefficient and
often provide weaker security guarantees, such as lacking forward secrecy. This leaves a wide gap between practical
protocols with poor worst-case guarantees and theoretical solutions that are entirely impractical.
In this paper, we narrow this gap by presenting the first CGKA protocol that achieves provably logarithmic
worst-case complexity for both computation and communication . Our first construction is based on a falsifiable and
plausibly post-quantum assumption called decomposed learning with errors (decomposed LWE), and achieves basic
CGKA security (only group members know the key) and post-compromise security, but not forward secrecy. We
then show how to extend our scheme in the random oracle model to achieve optimal security (including forward
secrecy) while retaining worst-case sublinear communication. However, the forward-secure refresh operation takes
linear time in the group size, while still producing compact ciphertexts.
Our work is the first to establish that worst-case efficient CGKA is theoretically possible from simple falsifiable
assumptions. Moreover, it offers a plausible roadmap towards concretely efficient constructions.
1 Introduction
Secure group messaging (SGM) is a cornerstone of modern digital communication, with billions of users relying
on platforms like Signal, WhatsApp, and Facebook Messenger for end-to-end (E2E) encrypted conversations. The
growing importance of SGM is underscored by the recent standardization effort by the IETF, which culminated in the
Messaging Layer Security (MLS) protocol [BBR+23]. MLS is already seeing widespread adoption by major industry
players such as Cisco, Discord, and Google.
The cryptographic core of SGM protocols (including the MLS standard) is a primitive known as continuous group
key agreement (CGKA) [ACDT20]. CGKA provides a clean abstraction for maintaining a shared secret among a
dynamic group of users, where members can be added, removed, or can perform state updates. CGKA could be
1

viewed as a functionality extension of multicast encryption [CGI+99, BDT22], which has a special group manager
who is in charge of adding and removing users. In contrast, in a CGKA, there is no special group manager: any user
can add or remove users to/from the group. The CGKA protocol at the heart of the MLS standard, known as TreeKEM,
exemplifies this functionality. Although CGKA only considers a passive adversary, the composition theorems of
[ACDT20, ACDT21] combine CGKA with symmetric-key primitives to yield much stronger levels of active attacker
security for SGM. This is because CGKA still allows the passive adversary to corrupt the secret states of honest
participants at any time. For now, we will consider the weakest, but already very challenging, security property of
CGKA in light of such corruptions: the shared secret key is secure, provided all previously corrupted users are no
longer in the group, and no current group member is corrupted from now on.1
A critical metric for the practicality of CGKA is itscommunication efficiency. Ideally, the initiator’s communication
cost of any group operation should be sublinear in the group size𝑛, and preferably polylogarithmic. An even stronger
requirement is sublinear computational complexity for each user, which implies sublinear communication while also
disallowing inefficient individual operations that scale proportionally to 𝑛. Indeed, such logarithmic efficiency is
easily achieved in existing multicast encryption schemes [CGI+99, BDT22], and we would like similar efficiency to
hold in CGKA. At first glance, existing CGKA upper bounds seem promising. Tree-based protocols, like TreeKEM,
follow the blueprint of multicast encryption schemes, and achieve an appealing𝑂(log𝑛) communication complexity
by arranging users at the leaves of a binary tree. When a user updates, they refresh the keys on their path to the root,
and encrypt these new keys for their siblings along the co-path, requiring only a logarithmic number of ciphertexts.
However, this efficiency is only guaranteed under “fair-weather” (or, really,best-case—see below) scenarios. For
example, if a user who previously added many members is removed, all secrets they generated are now considered
compromised to prevent “double-join” attacks [ACDT20, CCG+18], even if this (honest) user was supposed to erase
such no-longer-needed secrets. This means that the remaining group members are often left with no shared secret
structure with the users who were added by this user, forcing them to establish a new key “from scratch. ” In the worst
case, this might require Ω(𝑛) communication [BDG+22], which degrades to that of a trivial protocol (corresponding to
a flat tree with𝑛 leaves at level1). In fact, the recent work of Auerbach et al. [ACEP25] showed that the communication
complexity of TreeKEM quickly converges to being nearly linear in𝑛 in the following simple scenario: suppose that
every𝑑 successive rounds, a random user𝑈0 sequentially announces key updates for a random collection of𝑑 users
𝑈1,...,𝑈 𝑑. When 𝑑 = 1, the work of [ACEP25] shows that the communication complexity is already Ω(√𝑛) and
rises to Ω(𝑛0.99) when𝑑 = 50.2 One can reasonably interpret such a statement as saying that even the average-case
complexity of TreeKEM is much closer to linear, and certainly nowhere near the desired 𝑂(log𝑛) “fair-weather”
complexity. In fact, a more recent experimental work of [SDFV+25] developed a highly configurable environment for
empirical evaluations of MLS, and reached a similar conclusion experimentally: “our results show that computation
costs scale linearly in practical scenarios even in the best-case scenario. ”
These results basically kill the fair-weather claim regarding MLS, and raise the following fundamental question:
Do there exist CGKA protocols with sublinear worst-case complexity?
This important question was recently studied, with several papers establishing some barriers to achieving this
goal from standard cryptographic tools. These lower bounds come in several flavors:
• Black-box impossibility: Bienstock et al. [BDG+22] showed that it is impossible to build a worst-case efficient
CGKA in a black-box way from public-key encryption (PKE). This means that any protocol that treats PKE
as a sealed component—using it only for its intended encryption/decryption functionality without exploiting
its internal mathematical structure—cannot avoid a linear Ω(𝑛) communication cost in the worst case. This
class of constructions includes TreeKEM and its variants.
• Symbolic lower bounds: Other works have proven lower bounds in more abstract, symbolic models, where
cryptographic primitives are treated as ideal objects. In this idealized world, several papers [BDR20, AAB+24]
1This is the CGKA notion from [BDG+22], but without “forward” and “post-compromise” security properties that we will discuss later.
2Technically, the authors of [ACEP25] stated their result in the so-called “propose-then-commit” framework formally used by MLS, where users
first propose changes, and some other user then “commits” to all of these changes at once. For simplicity of exposition, we state our results
in the original CGKA framework of [ACDT20], where we do not separate proposals from commits (so every group change is a “commit” by
default). This does not affect anything we say, but is easier to explain and analyze.
2

showed that achieving fast “post-compromise recovery” (a term we explain later, when considering stronger
CGKA security) after𝑡 concurrent user updates requires Ω(𝑡 log(𝑛/𝑡)) communication per such update.3
On the positive side, a completely different line of work has shown a path to circumventing these lower bounds
using powerful primitives. In particular, Bienstock et al. [BDR20, BDG+22] observed a connection between CGKA and
multi-party non-interactive key exchange (multi-party NIKE). In a multi-party NIKE protocol, a group of users can each
publish a single message, and by reading all the public messages, everyone can compute a shared secret. This primitive
can be used to realize a very basic form of CGKA where adding a user or updating the user’s key only requires sending
the new public key, and deleting just announces the identity of the removed user. In either case, the updated group ros-
ter simply recomputes a fresh multi-party NIKE key after the change. Such multi-party NIKE constructions, in turn, can
be built fromindistinguishability obfuscation (𝑖O) [BGI+01]—a “master tool” of modern cryptography that can make any
program unintelligible while preserving its functionality. While there are some subtleties in the latter CGKA construc-
tion from𝑖O [BZ14, KRS15], it was recently formalized by Alwen et al. [ABG+25], who constructed a succinct multi-
party NIKE from𝑖O, meaning that the size of the public message broadcast by each member is independent of group size.
However, this positive result, while achieving sublinear communication complexity, comes with significant limitations:
• Impractical computational cost: Current constructions of𝑖O are astronomically inefficient, involving many
layers of recursive composition of non-black-box primitives (like functional encryption), making them purely
theoretical tools. In the words of the authors of [ABG+25], the resulting CGKA is therefore a “feasibility result,
and not a proposal of a real-world scheme. ”
• Lack of post-quantum security: There are currently no𝑖O constructions from well-studied assumptions
that are post-quantum secure.
• Communication-only focus: The multi-party NIKE-based result, and another CGKA from a related primitive
called compact key exchange (CKE) [BDG+22], primarily focus on minimizing the length of communication
messages, without guarantees on the computational cost. Indeed, their constructions achieve linear Ω(𝑛)
computational complexity, as each (compact) group secret is recomputed from scratch. In contrast, in a good
CGKA scheme, the entire computational complexity must be sublinear. This implies an important requirement
we call incrementality. Given a compact state𝜎𝑡 of the user𝑈 at time𝑡, the state-key tuple(𝜎𝑡+1,𝑘𝑡+1) at time
(𝑡+ 1) should be computed in sublinear time from𝜎𝑡 and a single sublinear ciphertext𝑐𝑡+1 broadcast by the
group member making the corresponding change to the group.
The current state of affairs thus leaves a significant gap between theory and practice. On the one hand, we have
practical protocols like TreeKEM that are efficient in limited (likely “best”) situations, but provably inefficient in
others (including realistic “average-case” ones). On the other hand, we have theoretical constructions that achieve the
desired sublinearity, but are completely impractical and computation-heavy (even in theory). In contrast, the negative
results, while powerful, only rule out specific classes of constructions, leaving open the possibility of a solution that
is both practical and provably secure in the worst case.
To summarize, prior to this work, the status of worst-case efficient CGKA was unclear, casting doubt on whether
it could ever be a truly ubiquitous and practical primitive for the real world. This brings us to our main question:
Can we build a provably secure CGKA protocol with worst-case sublinear complexity
which is potentially efficient for real-world implementation?
In fact, motivated by our discussion, we would like to additionally ask the following sub-questions for which we
would strongly prefer affirmative answers:
(a) Can the sublinear complexity be polylogarithmic in the group size𝑛 and polynomial in the security parameter
𝜆 (i.e., poly(𝜆, log𝑛))?
(b) Can the sublinear guarantee apply to theoverall computation for each user, and not just the communication cost?
3Technically, these works were more aimed at addressing a different (unrelated) limitation of MLS, prohibiting concurrent commit operations
(which is also the case in the notion of CGKA we study in this work). This was the real-world motivation to separate concurrent “proposals”
from sequential “commits” in the MLS standard.
3

(c) Can we base such a construction on a falsifiable (and preferably, plausibly post-quantum) cryptographic
assumption?
Our main result. In this paper, we provide a single construction that simultaneously answers all of these questions
in the affirmative. We present the first CGKA protocol that is provably secure, achieves polylogarithmic worst-case
complexity for both computation and communication, relies on standard assumptions, and is potentially concretely
efficient enough for practical consideration (although the latter will likely require further optimization not pursued
in this work). Our security model for CGKA is based on that of [BDG +22], in which the black-box lower bound
mentioned above was shown (and in fact we also consider a strengthening that incorporates forward secrecy, as we
discuss further below). Hence, for the first time, our work firmly establishes CGKA as a practical, real-world primitive
backed by provable theoretical guarantees, even in the worst case.
At a high level, our scheme builds on finding a connection between CGKA and a primitive called distributed
broadcast encryption (DBE) [WQZD10, BZ14], of which simple and relatively lightweight lattice-based constructions
were recently obtained [CW24, CHW25, WW25]. In a DBE scheme, users can publish their initial public keys without
any coordination. Given any group of𝑛 users𝑈1,...,𝑈 𝑛, any other user𝑈 can send a compact ciphertext𝑐. Every
user𝑈𝑖 can decrypt𝑐 using their individual secret key together with knowledge of the(𝑛− 1) public keys of the other
users𝑈𝑗. This is very similar to the compact key exchange notion suggested by [BDG+22], and almost immediately
implies a simple CGKA scheme, where a group update message will simply encrypt a fresh group secret using the
𝑛 public keys corresponding to the current group roster after the update.
Similar to earlier constructions based on multi-party NIKE, however, the CGKA obtained in this way will not have
the incrementality property that we seek. Thus, aside from establishing the connection between CGKA and distributed
broadcast encryption, we will need to show how to make DBE schemes incremental. Indeed, this is precisely what we
do. In Section 4, we formally define the notion of incremental DBE, and, in Section 6, we show that incremental DBE
implies a CGKA scheme with comparable (sublinear) parameters. As one of our main technical results, in Section 4.1,
we show how to build on the recent DBE scheme of Wee and Wu [WW25] to obtain an incremental distributed
broadcast encryption scheme. We prove security in the plain model from the same falsifiable lattice assumptions used
in [WW25] (i.e., the decomposed LWE assumption [AMR25]). This assumption is plausibly post-quantum secure.
While the parameters for the current scheme are likely too large to be useful for real-world CGKA/SGM schemes,
the scheme itself is implementable with current software/hardware. With further optimization, we believe our paper
will pave the way to real-world SGM schemes with worst-case sublinear complexity.
Towards stronger security. Thus far, and similar to the prior work of Alwen et al. [ABG+25], we achieve the
weakest security notion of CGKA, where we disallow the attacker from corrupting existing group members, even
if this corruption happens far in the past or the future of the current key. In contrast, modern SGM schemes (and,
correspondingly, their underlying CGKA schemes) strive for two stronger security goals: post-compromise security
(PCS), which ensures that the group can recover a secure state after a compromise through normal protocol operations,
and forward secrecy (FS), which guarantees that past group keys remain secure even if current states are leaked.
Fortunately, the PCS property is easily achieved by all CGKA schemes mentioned so far, including TreeKEM, the
𝑖O scheme from [ABG+25], or the new CGKA scheme we built from incremental distributed broadcast encryption.4
Intuitively, the user with current identity pkold can conclude any group operation by sampling a new public key
pknew for itself, removing its old public key pkold from the group, and re-inserting a “new user” pknew to the group.
Security-wise, this achieves PCS, since the compromise of the old secret key skold is no longer relevant by the basic
CGKA security, as the user pkold is no longer in the group. Efficiency-wise, however, this could be problematic if the
base CGKA scheme does not have sublinear add/remove operations, as was the case for all previous CGKA schemes.
However, since our new DBE scheme is incremental, we achieve PCS for our CGKA without any efficiency loss.
Following [ACDT20], our definition also includes a per-user no-delete option, under which that user’s past
secret states are retained and exposed upon corruption. We establish security even when the adversary has this
option, which rules out so-called “double-join” attacks. In such an attack, a user performing an add or remove may
4By adding the PCS requirement to our basic CGKA definition so far, we effectively arrive at the CGKA definition from [BDG+22], under which
they proved their Ω(𝑛) black-box impossibility result of building CGKA from public-key encryption. This is the model in which we actually
prove the CGKA security of our new scheme, overcoming this black-box impossibility.
4

learn secret material associated with another user, and is later able to use this material to derive shared group keys,
even after being removed itself. In order to prevent such attacks, the TreeKEM protocol requires worst-case linear
communication, while our protocol prevents such attacks with only logarithmic communication.
Things are considerably more complicated with forward secrecy. For example, TreeKEM (and, thus, the current
MLS standard) does not achieve good forward-secrecy properties, as was demonstrated by Alwen et al. [ACDT20].
The same trivially holds for schemes based on multi-party NIKE, such as [ABG+25]. In both cases, the issue comes
from the fact that all these schemes lack the “ratcheting” mechanism needed to securely forget past information.
In particular, corrupting a member of the evolving group who processed all updates, but never generated its own
update, will clearly leak all the past group secrets, breaking forward secrecy. Going forward, we call the challenge
of protecting the security of such users updatability, because their initial secrets have to be updated in the course
of the group evolution, even if they themselves do not post any updates !
At a technical level, updatability is related to the notion of so-calledupdatable public-key encryption (UPKE) [JMM19,
ACDT20], where the sender can help the receiver achieve forward secrecy by modifying the receiver’s public key
from pkold to pknew such that the following hold:
• the receiver can update its secret from skold to sknew, and then erase skold;
• compromising the new key sknew does not help to decrypt past ciphertexts for pkold; and
• the “helping sender” cannot decrypt new ciphertexts for pknew without compromising the key skold, even if
it knows the randomness used to go from pkold to pknew.
Indeed, the only known CGKA scheme that achieves forward secrecy is RTreeKEM [ACDT20] and is based on a
black-box use of an updatable public-key encryption scheme on top of TreeKEM. As such, it does not meet the
efficiency requirements of this work. Thus, we can ask the following question:
Can we build a provably secure CGKA protocol with worst-case sublinear complexity which is also forward secure?
This question was wide open before our work, even if we allow heavy machinery, such as𝑖O. Intuitively, this
appears quite hard, as building efficient updatable public-key encryption schemes [JMM19, ACDT20, HLP22, HPS23,
AFM24, AFMR25] seems to require some type of algebraic structure, and it is unclear how to introduce such structure
to a generic𝑖O-based construction like the ones described above.
Our second result. As a partial result to resolve this problem, in Section 5, we define and build an updatable (and
still incremental) DBE scheme, which in turn gives thefirst CGKA scheme with forward secrecy and worst-case sublinear
communication complexity. This scheme is noticeably more involved than our basic incremental DBE scheme, as it
adds an updating mechanism to the incremental DBE. Namely, a sender implicitly updates the secret keys of all the
receivers in the group (while satisfying the requirements listed above). Security in turn relies on the same falsifiable
lattice assumptions as before, but we additionally need to work in the random oracle model.
Our new scheme resolves the main open problem above in the efficiency model explicitly considered in the prior
works of [ABG+25, BDG+22], where communication is required to be compact, but computation is allowed to scale
with the group size𝑛. In fact, the only linear-time operation in our new CGKA scheme is a special “forward secrecy
refreshing” operation, which results in a compact ciphertext and allows all group members to effectively “forget old
secrets. ” This allows our scheme to achieve FS. The users can still add/remove other users in sublinear time, thereby
preserving the standard CGKA security requirements.
In this scheme, each party needs to store the group roster and the public keys of the current members. Thus, the per-
party storage is linear in the group size. This matches the standard model of the MLS and CGKA literature [ACDT20],
where maintaining the roster is customary (required by MLS), and where the relevant efficiency measures are commu-
nication and computation in the RAM model; linear storage is therefore not considered a drawback.5 We note that the
efficiency model for our new scheme is still meaningful for situations where the network bandwidth is much more
5In contrast, our incremental DBE scheme from Section 4 has the property that each party in principle only needs to store its own aggregated
key and not the complete set of public keys for all group members. However, doing so would require relaxing some security guarantees in
the resulting CGKA and we do not explore this optimization here.
5

expensive than local computation, or where the users choose to run the refreshing operation infrequently (settling for a
suboptimal notion of forward secrecy). For large groups, our scheme is also considerably more efficient than RTreeKEM
(the only previous CGKA scheme with forward secrecy), since we achieve worst-case sublinear communication.
We leave it as an open problem to achieve a truly (computation-wise!) sublinear CGKA scheme with forward
secrecy. As a partial indication of why our approach does not resolve this problem, in Appendix A, we show a simple
attack on an aggressive, sublinear-time variant of our updatable DBE scheme from Section 5, which completely breaks
the scheme.
2 Technical Overview
We start from the syntax of a distributed broadcast encryption scheme [WQZD10, BZ14] and then discuss the new
properties that are essential for our application.
Distributed broadcast encryption. In a distributed broadcast encryption scheme [WQZD10, BZ14], a system
administrator starts by running a Setup algorithm to generate a set of public parameters pp.6 Each user is associated
with an index𝑖∈ N and can independently sample a public/private key-pair(pk𝑖, sk𝑖). Anyone can encrypt a message
𝑚 to a set of public keys

(𝑖, pk𝑖)
	
𝑖∈𝑆, provided that each public key pk𝑖 is associated with a distinct index. Any user
𝑗∈𝑆 can decrypt ct using their secret key sk𝑗 (together with knowledge of the other users’ public keys). Specifically,
the syntax can be summarized as follows:
ct← Enc

pp,

(𝑖, pk𝑖)
	
𝑖∈𝑆,𝑚

, Dec

pp,

(𝑖, pk𝑖)
	
𝑖∈𝑆,(𝑗, sk𝑗), ct

=𝑚.
The security requirement is that the ciphertext should computationally hide the message if one does not possess
a secret key sk𝑖 for any index𝑖∈𝑆. The efficiency requirement states that ciphertexts should be succinct: ideally,
|ct| = poly(𝜆, log|𝑆|).
Incrementality and updatability. We now discuss two new properties that are important for our application
to efficient continuous group key-agreement (CGKA): incrementality and updatability.
• Incrementality: The incrementality property provides an efficient mechanism to update encryption keys as
users join or leave the system. This property will be essential for supporting sublinear-time group updates
in CGKA.
• Updatability: The updatability property establishes a key-rotation mechanism that will be helpful for achieving
forward secrecy with sublinear communication.
Incremental DBE. An incremental distributed broadcast encryption scheme has similar Setup and KeyGen algo-
rithms to vanilla DBE. In addition, in this setting, a group of users (associated with indices 𝑖 and public keys pk𝑖)
can compute an aggregated public key apk that represents a “group public key. ” We require the aggregate public key
to be short (sublinear, and ideally, polylogarithmic, in the size of the group). In addition, each user also has their own
aggregated secret keyask𝑖, which is a function of their secret keysk𝑖 and the public keys of the other users in the group.
The aggregated public key is used to encrypt to the group and each user𝑖 uses their aggregated secret key to decrypt:
ct← Enc(apk,𝑚) Dec(ask𝑖, ct) =𝑚.
This syntax can be viewed as a registered version of broadcast encryption.7 The key requirement in incremental DBE
is the ability for group members to efficiently update their aggregated public and secret keys whenever a user joins
6Some schemes [BZ14, FWW23, WW25], including ours, either do not require a setup or support a transparent setup where the public parameters
can be described by a uniform random string. Schemes based on bilinear maps [KMW23, GLWW23, GKPW24, WW26] require a structured setup.
7In registration-based cryptography [GHMR18], users independently choose their own public/secret keys and then there is a deterministic
aggregation procedure that aggregates the public keys together into a short master public key. In the case of registration-based encryption,
the short public key functions as the public key for an identity-based encryption scheme. In our setting, the aggregated key functions as the
public key for a broadcast encryption scheme.
6

or leaves the group. Specifically, we define a pair of update algorithms IncSK, IncPK with the following syntax:
apk′← IncPK

pp, apk,(𝑗, pk𝑗), op

ask′
𝑖← IncSK

pp, ask𝑖,(𝑗, pk𝑗), op

,
where op∈{Add, Remove}. When a user joins (resp., leaves) the system, the remaining users in the group run the
IncPK algorithm with the public parameterspp, the current group public keyapk, the public keypk𝑗 and index𝑗 of the
user joining (resp., leaving) the group andop = Add (resp., op = Remove) to obtain the updated public key for the group.
Similarly, they run IncSK with the public parameters pp, their current secret key ask𝑖, the public key pk𝑗 and index 𝑗
of the user joining (resp., leaving) the group, andop = Add (resp., op = Remove) to obtain their new aggregated secret
key. Finally, we require that the algorithms IncPK, IncSK run in time poly(𝜆), independent of the size of the group.
Updatable DBE. Incrementality alone does not provide forward secrecy. If a secret key for a user is ever com-
promised, the adversary gains the ability to decrypt all ciphertexts encrypted to the group’s public key prior to the
compromise. To address this, we augment the DBE scheme with an additional refresh mechanism. We refer to the
resulting scheme as an updatable DBE scheme. An updatable DBE scheme consists of two additional algorithms
UpdPK, UpdSK that users can use to refresh the aggregated public key and their aggregated secret key. In the group
messaging application, these algorithms would be run whenever a user sends or receives a message. Formally, the
update algorithms have the following syntax:
(ctref, apk′,𝑆′)← UpdPK(pp, apk,𝑆), (sk′
𝑖, ask′
𝑖,𝑆′)← UpdSK(pp, sk𝑖, ask𝑖, ctref,𝑆).
In this case, theUpdPK algorithm takes the public parameterspp, the current group public keyapk, and the set𝑆 of user
indices (that are group members), and outputs an updated public key apk′, the refreshed set𝑆′ of member public keys,
and some additional metadata ctref that users can use to update their aggregated secret keys. In turn, users can use the
UpdSK algorithm together with the public parameterspp, their secret keysk𝑖, their current aggregated secret keyask𝑖,
the metadata ctref, and the current set𝑆 of user indices to compute an updated secret key sk′
𝑖, an updated aggregated
secret key ask′
𝑖, and the refreshed set𝑆′ of member public keys (which contains their updated public key pk′
𝑖 =𝑆′[𝑖]).
The UpdPK and UpdSK algorithms enable a key-rotation system that each user can use to update their public and
secret keys on each communication. Our main efficiency requirement is that the outputs of UpdPK, UpdSK have size
at most poly(𝜆), independent of the size of the group.8 The output size of these update algorithms directly translates
to the communication complexity of the messaging application. In the setting of public-key encryption, there is a rich
line of work starting from constructions based on hierarchical identity-based encryption (which were rather involved)
and the more natural relaxation called updatable public-key encryption [JMM19, ACDT20]. In our constructions,
the main challenge in updatability is ensuring that the size of the updates, and thus the communication, remains
sublinear in the size of the group𝑆.
If we naïvely use a distributed broadcast encryption scheme as a black box to obtain an incremental (or updat-
able) DBE, it is challenging to achieve the required efficiency properties. This is because the syntax of distributed
broadcast encryption does not natively support pre-aggregating public keys together. Instead, the public keys of
the users are always provided as inputs to the encryption and decryption algorithms, so even if we are encrypt-
ing to the same group multiple times, the running time of the encryption and decryption algorithms is always
linear in the size of the group. As it turns out though, most of the distributed broadcast encryption schemes we
are aware of support the ability to first aggregate the public keys for many users into a short public key for the
group [KMW23, GLWW23, CW24, GKPW24, CHW25, WW25, WW26]. In this work, we will use the recent lattice-
based DBE scheme from [WW25] as the starting point for constructing our incremental and updatable DBE schemes.
Background: matrix commitments. The key building block underlying the distributed broadcast encryption
scheme from [WW25] is the matrix commitment introduced by Wee [Wee25]. At a high level, Wee’s matrix com-
mitment scheme allows one to commit to a sparse matrix M∈ Z𝑛×𝐿
𝑞 (e.g., we can think of𝐿 = 2𝜆 as being exponential,
8Note that here, we can also ask for an even stronger efficiency requirement where the algorithms do not need to take the current set of users𝑆
as input and thus can run in time poly(𝜆). It is an interesting challenge to construct a scheme with this level of efficiency. This seems challenging
for the scheme we put forward in this paper, and indeed, in Appendix A, we describe a simple attack on a natural variant of our scheme that
would satisfy this stronger efficiency requirement.
7

but M only has a polynomial number of non-zero columns, and thus, a polynomial-size description). Specifically,
given a set of public parameters ppcom and a matrix M, there is an efficient deterministic algorithm that outputs a
commitment C∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 together with low-norm “local openings” z𝑖∈ Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 such that
Cv𝑖 = m𝑖− Bz𝑖. (2.1)
Here B∈ Z𝑛× ˆ𝑚
𝑞 is a matrix and v𝑖∈ Z𝑚
𝑞 is a low-norm vector determined by the public parameters ppcom, and m𝑖
denotes the𝑖th column of M. Importantly, the commitment C is compact: its dimensions are independent of the length
of the original matrix M (i.e.,𝑚 =𝑂(𝑛 log𝑞)). Here, ˆ𝑚 = 4𝑚5. Since the commitment algorithm is deterministic,
anyone can compute C and the openings z𝑖 given the public parameters ppcom and the matrix M.
Background: distributed broadcast encryption. We next sketch a variant of the distributed broadcast encryption
scheme from [WW25]. We consider a scheme that can support up to𝐿 = 2𝜆 users. In the following description, we
will write sTA:: to denote sTA+ eT where e is a low-norm vector.
• Public parameters: Sample the public parameters for the matrix commitment scheme ppcom, together with
matrices A∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , p∈ Z𝑛
𝑞. Recall that the matrix B∈ Z𝑛× ˆ𝑚
𝑞 is defined by the public parameters for the matrix
commitment scheme. Here,(B, p) can be viewed as the public key for a dual-Regev encryption scheme [Reg05],
and A is used to re-randomize the ciphertexts.
• User key generation: Sample r𝑖
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚. Set the public key and secret key as
pk𝑖 = t𝑖 = Br𝑖+ p− Av𝑖 and sk𝑖 = r𝑖.
Here v𝑖∈ Z𝑚
𝑞 is the low-norm vector determined by the public parameters ppcom.
• Encryption: Given the set of recipients{(𝑖, t𝑖)}𝑖∈𝑆 and a message𝜇∈{ 0, 1}, the encryption algorithm proceeds
as follows:
– For each𝑖∈𝑆, compute a matrix commitment C𝑖 to the matrix with a single non-zero column uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖
where u𝑖∈{ 0, 1}𝐿 is the𝑖th standard basis vector. Namely, the𝑖th column of C𝑖 is t𝑖 and it is 0 elsewhere.
– For any𝑖∗∈𝑆, let z𝑖,𝑖∗ be the local opening of uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖, such that Eq. (2.1) is satisfied. This means
C𝑖v𝑖∗ =
(
t𝑖− Bz𝑖,𝑖∗ 𝑖 =𝑖∗
−Bz𝑖,𝑖∗ 𝑖 ≠𝑖∗,
where v𝑖∗, z𝑖,𝑖∗ are low-norm vectors.
– Sample an LWE secret s r← Z𝑛
𝑞 and, writing𝜉 =⌊𝑞/2⌋ for the scaling factor, output the ciphertext
ct =   sTB
::
, sT(A+ ˝
𝑖∈𝑆 C𝑖)
:::::::::::::
, sTp+𝜇·𝜉
:::::::
. (2.2)
We note here that the DBE scheme from [WW25] defined C to be the commitment to ˝
𝑖∈𝑆 uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖. In our
variant, we takeC = ˝
𝑖∈𝑆 C𝑖 where each C𝑖 is a commitment touT
𝑖⊗t𝑖. The approach from [WW25] has the
advantage that it can be instantiated with smaller parameters, whereas the variant we describe here directly
enables incrementality (without requiring group members to remember the public keys of other users).
• Decryption: Take any index𝑖∗∈𝑆. Then, v𝑖∗ is a public vector such that
sT
 
A+
∑︁
𝑖∈𝑆
C𝑖
!
v𝑖∗
::::::::::::::
≈ sTAv𝑖∗+
∑︁
𝑖∈𝑆
sTC𝑖v𝑖∗ = sTAv𝑖∗+ sTt𝑖∗−
∑︁
𝑖∈𝑆
sTBz𝑖,𝑖∗.
Given{(𝑖, t𝑖)}𝑖∈𝑆, the decrypter can compute each z𝑖,𝑖∗ and compute ˝
𝑖∈𝑆 z𝑖,𝑖∗. Using the fact that t𝑖∗ =
Br𝑖∗+ p− Av𝑖∗ together with the secret r𝑖∗, the decrypter computes
sT(A+ ˝
𝑖∈𝑆 C𝑖) v𝑖∗
:::::::::::::::
− sTB r𝑖∗
:::::
− sTB ˝
𝑖∈𝑆 z𝑖,𝑖∗
::::::::::
≈ sTp. (2.3)
The decrypter then subtracts this value from the third ciphertext component sTp+𝜇·𝜉 and rounds to recover𝜇.
8

From the properties of the matrix commitment scheme,|pp|,|pk|,|sk|,|ct| = poly(𝜆) and thus the distributed broadcast
encryption scheme is efficient. Security in turn follows from the decomposed learning with errors (decomposed LWE)
assumption [AMR25]. Specifically, under the decomposed LWE assumption, Wee [Wee25] showed that the following
distributions are computationally indistinguishable
(ppcom, sTB::) and (ppcom, vT),
where s r← Z𝑛
𝑞 and v r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 . As shown in [WW25], this is sufficient to prove (selective) security of the above distributed
broadcast encryption scheme. In the selective security game, the adversary must declare its challenge set ahead of time.
In this case, the reduction algorithm can sample the public keys for the honest userspk𝑖 = t𝑖 at setup time, pre-compute
the commitments C𝑖 to uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖, and then simulate the public parameters as A = BD− ˝
𝑖∈𝑆 C𝑖 and p = Bd, where D
and d are low-norm matrices/vectors chosen by the reduction. In this case, the challenge ciphertext has the structure
ct =  sTB
::
, sT(A+ ˝
𝑖∈𝑆 C𝑖)
:::::::::::::
, sTp+𝜇·𝜉
:::::::
 =  sTB
::
, sTBD
::::
, sTBd+𝜇·𝜉
:::::::::
,
which is pseudorandom under the decomposed LWE assumption.
Incrementality. We start by observing that the DBE scheme described above already supports natural public-key
aggregation and secret-key aggregation algorithms. Namely, given a group of users𝑆, we can define the aggregated
public key to be
apk =
∑︁
𝑖∈𝑆
C𝑖∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 .
Observe that given apk, we can construct the ciphertext (Eq. (2.2)) in time that is independent of the number of users
in the group. Similarly, each user𝑖∗∈𝑆 can pre-compute an aggregated decryption key ask𝑖∗ as follows:
ask𝑖∗ =
 
v𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,
∑︁
𝑖∈𝑆
z𝑖,𝑖∗
!
,
where z𝑖,𝑖∗ is the local opening of pk𝑖 = uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖 at index𝑖∗. Given the aggregated secret key ask𝑖∗, evaluating the
decryption relation (Eq. (2.3)) completes in time that is independent of the size of the set. Since the aggregated public
key and the aggregated secret key for each user can be expressed as a linear function of the (committed) public keys
of the users in the group and their respective openings, we obtain a simple aggregation mechanism. Specifically, we
define IncPK, IncSK as follows:
• To add a new user with index𝑗 and public key pk𝑗 = t𝑗 to the group, the IncPK algorithm first computes the
commitment C𝑗 to t𝑗 and updates apk = apk+ C𝑗. Similarly, the IncSK algorithm for each user𝑖∗∈𝑆 would
compute z𝑗,𝑖∗ as the local opening of uT
𝑗⊗ t𝑗 with respect to position 𝑖∗ and accumulate z𝑗,𝑖∗ into the third
component of ask𝑖∗.
• To remove a user with index 𝑗 and public key pk𝑗 = t𝑗, we simply perform the reverse operation. The new
public key becomes apk = apk− C𝑗 and each user would subtract z𝑗,𝑖∗ from the third component of ask𝑖∗.
From the efficiency properties of the matrix commitment scheme, we have that adding and removing users has strictly
sublinear update complexity.
Updatability. Next, we turn our attention to updatability and forward security. If an adversary compromises
a user’s secret key at time 𝑡, then all prior ciphertexts encrypted under the same aggregated public key become
decryptable. To address this, we equip our scheme with an explicit refresh mechanism that re-randomizes all of
the users’ secret keys while retaining correctness. Moreover, this refresh mechanism preserves communication
succinctness: the size of the update message communicated to the group is polynomial in the security parameter
and independent of the size of the set𝑆.
9

Warm-up: public-key refresh in vanilla dual-Regev encryption. Our approach follows a strategy similar to
that taken in the group-based setting [JMM19, ACDT20]. We start by illustrating our technique for the simpler case
of a vanilla dual-Regev encryption scheme [Reg05, GPV08] with public key(B, t). A user’s secret key is a low-norm
vector r∈ Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 such that Br = t∈ Z𝑛
𝑞. In this case, a natural refresh strategy is to sample a random low-norm offset
𝜹 r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚 and update the secret key to be r = r+ 𝜹. The corresponding public key for the user then becomes
t = t+ B𝜹. Whenever the sender is sending a message to the receiver, they can now include an encryption of 𝜹 with
the message. The receiver can recover 𝜹 and then update their state accordingly.
However, proving security of this toy scheme is nontrivial. After a compromise, the adversary learns the updated
secret key r+ 𝜹 along with an encryption of 𝜹 (under LWE). Our goal is to show that even given the updated secret
r+ 𝜹 and an encryption of 𝜹, ciphertexts encrypted with respect to the original public key t remain semantically
secure. This introduces a circular dependency: the adversary sees r+ 𝜹 (i.e., a masked version of the secret key r)
along with an encryption of 𝜹. Prior works [JMM19, ACDT20, DKW21] address this circularity either by working
in the random oracle model or by leveraging key-dependent-message security (KDM-security) of LWE against linear
functions. In this work, we adopt a technique based on the random oracle heuristic. Concretely, in our construction,
instead of shifting their key by 𝜹∈{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚, the user computes 𝚫 =𝐻(𝜹)∈{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚 where 𝜹∈{ 0, 1}𝜆 and the hash
function𝐻 is now modeled as a random oracle. The user then updates their public key t and secret key r as follows:
t = t+ B𝚫, r = r+ 𝚫.
As before, the sender would include an encryption of 𝜹 with the ciphertext. The receiver can derive 𝚫 from 𝜹 and
perform the key update. In a sense, the random oracle is used here to “sever” the correlation between the blinded
key r+ 𝚫 and the encryption of the blinding factor 𝜹. The security argument roughly proceeds as follows:
• Let the public key be pk =(B, t) and let r be the associated secret key. In the real distribution, the adversary
sees pk, the refreshed secret key r+ 𝚫, and an encryption of 𝜹∈{ 0, 1}𝜆 under pk. In dual Regev encryption,
the ciphertext is the pair(SB
::
, St+ 𝜹·𝜉
:::::::
), where S r← Z𝜆×𝑛
𝑞 and𝜉 =⌊𝑞/2⌋ is a scaling factor. The adversary’s
view can thus be described by the tuple

B, B𝚫, t, r+ 𝚫, SB
::
, St+ 𝜹·𝜉
:::::::

=

B, B𝚫, Br, r+ 𝚫, D, SB
::
, SBr+ 𝜹·𝜉
::::::::

.
• Suppose the original secret r is drawn from a sufficiently wide distribution (e.g., r r←[ 𝐵] ˆ𝑚 where𝐵 is super-
polynomial). Then, by a smudging argument, for all 𝚫∈{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚, the distribution of r+ 𝚫 where r r←[ 𝐵] ˆ𝑚
is statistically close to that of r′ r←[ 𝐵] ˆ𝑚. Reparametrizing r = r′− 𝚫, the adversary’s view is statistically
indistinguishable from 
B, B𝚫, B(r′− 𝚫), r′, SB
::
, SB(r′− 𝚫)+ 𝜹·𝜉
::::::::::::::

. (2.4)
Note that after this step the revealed secret r′ no longer depends on 𝚫.
• Recall that 𝚫 =𝐻(𝜹)∈{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚, with𝐻 modeled as a random oracle. Suppose the adversary does not query
𝐻 on 𝜹. Then 𝚫 is uniform over{0, 1} ˆ𝑚, and by the leftover hash lemma applied to the matrix B, the following
distributions are statistically indistinguishable:
(B, B𝚫) and (B, u1),
where u1
r← Z𝑛
𝑞. Writing B(r′− 𝚫) = Br′− B𝚫 = Br′− u1, the adversary’s view in this case is statistically
indistinguishable from 
B, u1, Br′− u1, r′, SB
::
, S(Br′− u1)+ 𝜹·𝜉
::::::::::::::

.
• Now, by the LWE assumption, the following distributions are computationally indistinguishable:
 [B| u1], S[B| u1]
:::::::
 and  [B| u1],[V| u2],
10

where V r← Z𝜆× ˆ𝑚
𝑞 and u2
r← Z𝜆
𝑞. Correspondingly, this means the adversary’s view is computationally
indistinguishable from
(B, u1, Br′− u1, r′, V, Vr′− u2+ 𝜹·𝜉). (2.5)
Since u2 is uniform and independent of everything else, the shift 𝜹 is information-theoretically hidden. (The
same argument shows that any message encrypted under pk is also hidden.)
• The above sequence of hybrids relies on the assumption that the adversary does not query the random oracle
on 𝜹. This is to ensure that 𝚫 is information-theoretically hidden from the view of the adversary. To argue
this, suppose that the adversary makes at most𝑄 random oracle queries. We define𝑄+ 1 intermediate hybrid
experiments Hyb0,..., Hyb𝑄 where the adversary’s view in each experiment is distributed according to Eq. (2.4).
The output in Hyb𝑖 is 1 if the adversary queries the random oracle on 𝜹 as one of its first𝑖 queries. Our goal is
to show that the probability that the output inHyb𝑄 is 1 is negligible. In this case, the above sequence of hybrid
experiments shows that the distribution in Eq. (2.4) is computationally indistinguishable from the distribution
in Eq. (2.5). We consider each pair of adjacent experiments. By construction, the outputs in Hyb𝑖 and Hyb𝑖+1
are identical unless the following two events occur:
– The adversary does not query the random oracle on 𝜹 in the first𝑖 queries.
– The adversary queries 𝜹 on its(𝑖+ 1)st query to the random oracle.
However, if the adversary does not query 𝜹 in its first𝑖 queries, then by the above analysis, at the time of the
adversary’s(𝑖+1)st query, the vector𝜹 is computationally hidden from its view. Thus the probability it queries𝜹
on its(𝑖+ 1)st query is bounded by 1/2𝜆+ negl(𝜆). By a hybrid argument, we conclude that an efficient adversary
queries the random oracle on 𝜹 with only negligible probability in Hyb𝑄, and in this case security holds.
Our work: why broadcast complicates refresh. While the above strategy is sound for plain public-key encryption,
it does not directly extend to the distributed broadcast setting. In broadcast encryption, public keys are compressed into
a single aggregated commitment, and the key update must be communicated succinctly to all of the users. A natural
idea would be to reuse a common shift 𝚫 across all users in the group. This would allow for an efficient key update.
A standard entropy calculation shows that even if we leak{r𝑖+ 𝚫}𝑖∈𝑆, there remains sufficient entropy in 𝚫 when
|𝑆| is polynomial and the domain of r𝑖 is large. However, as we show in Appendix A, sharing the same shift across
multiple users enables a zeroizing attack on the resulting scheme. Since users can compute differences
(r1+ 𝚫)−( r2+ 𝚫) = r1− r2,
an adversary can learn linear relations among the error terms over the integers and potentially break LWE security.
Per-user randomized shifts. To prevent this attack, our strategy is to derive independent per-user shifts using the
random oracle. Namely, we now define the shift for user𝑖 to be 𝚫𝑖 =𝐻(𝜹,𝑖). This ensures that shifts are independent
across different users and avoids the zeroizing structure mentioned above.
The remaining challenge is to prove security in the broadcast setting while maintaining succinct aggregation.
The proof combines two layers of hybrid arguments. We build on the selective proof of [WW25, §4]. There, the
adversary first commits to a challenge recipient set𝑆∗. The challenger then programs the public matrix A so that
the contribution of users in𝑆∗ is embedded into the LWE challenge instance. Ultimately, the reduction simulates the
challenge ciphertext using the challenge from the decomposed LWE assumption. In the updatable setting, we must
additionally integrate the refresh algorithm and forward security analysis into this framework. Our proof follows a
similar structure to the basic version we sketched above for the case of vanilla dual Regev encryption, where we first
rely on a smudging argument that leverages the min-entropy of the secret keys, then the leftover hash lemma to argue
that each B𝚫𝑖 is statistically close to uniform, and finally, the decomposed LWE assumption to argue that the refresh
randomness 𝜹 is computationally hidden from the view of the adversary. We refer to Section 5 for the formal analysis.
Implications to CGKA. In Section 6, we finalize our main contributions by showing that:
• Incremental DBE (IncDBE) implies CGKA with post-compromise security.
11

• Updatable DBE (UpdDBE) implies CGKA with post-compromise security and forward secrecy.
While these implications are fairly immediate given the properties of these DBE schemes described above, for complete-
ness, we provide an overview of the syntax, security, and efficiency properties of the CGKA schemes that we construct.
Our formalization of CGKA mostly follows conventions from [ACDT20] and [BDG+22]. Users are identified with
a non-cryptographic ID (e.g., their phone number or email) as well as cryptographic public parameters pp and secret
state st. Group evolution occurs as the result of Add, Remove, PCRefresh, and FSRefresh operations:
• Any user in the group with secret state st may run Add(st, ID, pp) using an external user’s information(ID, pp)
in order to update their own state, update the shared key𝐾 (for the group), and produce a message𝑚 that allows
the user with ID to enter the group. Concretely, this message𝑚 is processed by running a Join algorithm, which
requires the public information{( ID𝑗, pp𝑗)}𝑗 associated with everyone currently in the group, and outputs
a secret state together with the shared key𝐾. Other users that are already in the group process𝑚 using an
algorithm Process, which also updates their state and key.
• Similarly, any user in the group with secret state st may run Remove(st, ID, pp) using an internal user’s infor-
mation(ID, pp) in order to remove ID from the group. This also results in a message𝑚 that must be processed
by all remaining members of the group in order to update their secret state and shared key.
• Finally, any user in the group may run PCRefresh(st) or FSRefresh(st), which generates a post-compromise
or forward secrecy update, and produces a message𝑚 that must be processed by all users in the group.
The constructions of CGKA fromIncDBE or UpdDBE are natural. To Add or Remove a user, the members of the group
perform the appropriate IncPK and IncSK algorithms, and then the invoking user samples a fresh𝐾 and encrypts this
key to the new aggregated public key. To implement PCRefresh, a user simply removes itself from the group, samples
new public parameters, and thenadds itself back to the group using these fresh parameters. To implementFSRefresh (in
the case that we are starting withUpdDBE), the members of the group perform the key update algorithms ofUpdDBE.
We model security against adversaries that are fully selective and passive (though we do allow the adversary
to request that users stop deleting old states, following the standard conventions in, e.g., [ACDT20, BDG+22]). By
passive, we mean that the adversary does not have the ability to craft maliciously generated messages on behalf of the
participants or take any control over the network that is responsible for delivering messages. We further discuss this
modeling choice and comparison with prior work at the end of Section 6.1. We define security using the “admissible
query” paradigm, where an adversary is given access to oracles that control the evolution of group dynamics, including
“corruption” and “challenge” oracles that allow the adversary to leak the state of users and ask for real-or-random
challenges on the current group key. For any fixed sequence of oracle queries (note that this is a selective notion
of security) that would not trivially allow the adversary to win, we demand that it has negligible advantage in its
real-or-random queries. In particular, we consider the following two interesting types of query sequences:
1. The adversary first corrupts a user, then the user is either removed or refreshed, and then the adversary issues
a challenge. This captures post-compromise security.
2. The adversary issues a challenge followed by a forward secrecy refresh, and later corrupts a user who was
in the group at the time of the challenge. This captures forward secrecy.
In Section 6.1, we write down a set of admissible queries that captures only (1), and another that captures both
(1) and (2). Then, in Section 6.2 and Section 6.3, we show that any adversary with noticeable advantage in the
post-compromise CGKA game yields an adversary that can break the security of IncDBE (Definition 4.1), and any
adversary with noticeable advantage in the post-compromise + forward secrecy CGKA game yields an adversary
that can break the security of UpdDBE (Definition 5.1).
As mentioned above, our construction from IncDBE satisfies optimal efficiency, which we define as follows. There
must be some fixed polynomial𝑝(𝜆) that bounds the run-time of each of Setup, Init, Add, Remove, PCRefresh, and
Process, independent of the current size of the group. That is, the only operation that may depend on the size of
the group is Join. This is in some sense inherent, if we consider reading the description of the group to be a part of
the algorithm that users run to join the group.
Combining these details, we obtain our main theorem statement:
12

Theorem 2.1 (Informal). Assuming decomposed LWE [AMR25], there exist:
• A CGKA scheme with optimal efficiency that satisfies post-compromise security (against selective and passive
adversaries).
• A CGKA scheme in the random oracle model that satisfies post-compromise security and forward secrecy
(against selective and passive adversaries). Here, all computation and communication are optimal, except that
the forward secrecy updates require a linear amount of computation in the group size.
3 Preliminaries
We write𝜆∈ N to denote the security parameter. For a positive integer𝑛∈ N, we write[𝑛] B{1,...,𝑛 }. We write
poly(𝜆) to denote a function that is𝑂(𝜆𝑐) for some constant𝑐∈ N and negl(𝜆) to denote a function that is negligible
in𝜆 (i.e.,𝑜(𝜆−𝑐) for all𝑐∈ N). For a finite set 𝑆, we write𝑥 r←𝑆 to denote a uniform random draw from𝑆. For a
distributionD, we write𝑥←D to denote a sample fromD. We say an algorithm is efficient if it runs in probabilistic
polynomial time in the length of its input. Unless otherwise specified, all algorithms in this work should be assumed
to be efficient. We say that two distribution ensemblesD0 =

D0,𝜆
	
𝜆∈N andD1 =

D1,𝜆
	
𝜆∈N are computationally
indistinguishable if for all efficient adversariesA, there exists a negligible function negl(·) such that for all𝜆∈ N,
Pr[A( 1𝜆,𝑥) = 1 : 𝑥←D 0,𝜆]− Pr[A( 1𝜆,𝑥) = 1 : 𝑥←D 1,𝜆]
 = negl(𝜆).
We say thatD0 andD1 are statistically indistinguishable if the statistical distance betweenD0,𝜆 andD1,𝜆 is bounded by
a negligible functionnegl(𝜆), and that they areidentical if the statistical distance is0. We writeD0≈𝑐D1 to denote that
D0 andD1 are computationally indistinguishable, andD0≈𝑠D1 to denote that they are statistically indistinguishable.
Min-entropy. LetX be a finite set and let 𝑋 be a random variable over X with probability mass function
𝑝𝑋 :X → [0, 1]. The min-entropy of 𝑋 is defined as 𝐻∞(𝑋) = − log(max𝑥∈X𝑝𝑋(𝑥)). Let (𝑋,𝑌) be a pair of
random variables over finite setsX andY with joint distribution𝑝𝑋,𝑌(𝑥,𝑦) = Pr[𝑋 =𝑥,𝑌 =𝑦]. The average-case
conditional min-entropy of𝑋 given𝑌 is defined to be
e𝐻∞(𝑋|𝑌) B− log

E𝑦←𝑌

max
𝑥∈X
Pr[𝑋 =𝑥|𝑌 =𝑦]

.
We denote𝑝guess(𝑋|𝑌) B E𝑦←𝑌[max𝑥∈X Pr[𝑋 =𝑥|𝑌 =𝑦]]. Note that e𝐻∞(𝑋|𝑌) =− log𝑝guess(𝑋|𝑌).
3.1 Lattice Preliminaries
We follow the notation from [WW25]. We use bold uppercase letters (e.g.,A, B) for matrices and bold lowercase letters
(e.g., u, v) for vectors. By default, we represent vectors as column vectors (i.e., matrices with a single column). We use
non-boldface letters for their components (e.g., v =[𝑣1,...,𝑣 𝑛] T). For a matrix A∈ Z𝑛×𝑚, we write∥A∥ to denote the
maximum absolute value of its entries. WhenA∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , we write∥A∥ to denote∥ ˜A∥ where ˜A is the matrix obtained by
lifting each entry ofA to the integers (with values in the interval(−𝑞/2,𝑞/2]). We write A⊗ B to denote the Kronecker
product between matrices A and B. For a matrix A, we write vec(A) to denote the vector obtained by concatenating
the columns of A. For𝑥∈ Z𝑞, we write⌊𝑥⌉2 for the standard rounding function from Z𝑞 to Z2, defined by
⌊𝑥⌉2 B
(
0 −𝑞/4≤𝑥 <𝑞/4
1 otherwise.
We extend⌊·⌉ 2 to vectors and matrices via coordinate-wise evaluation.
13

Leftover hash lemma. We recall the following special case of the leftover hash lemma from [DRS04, ABB10].
Lemma 3.1 (Leftover Hash Lemma [DRS04, ABB10]). Let𝑛,𝑚,𝑞 ∈ N where𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞 and𝑞 > 2 is a prime.
Then, for all polynomials𝑘 = poly(𝑛), there exists a negligible function negl(·) such that for all fixed vectors e∈ Z𝑚
𝑞 ,
the statistical distance between the following distributions is negl(𝑛):
 (A, AK, eTK)
A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , K r←{ 0, 1}𝑚×𝑘

and
 (A, U, eTK)
A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , U r← Z𝑛×𝑘
𝑞 , K r←{ 0, 1}𝑚×𝑘

.
Discrete Gaussians. We writeDZ,𝜎 to denote the discrete Gaussian distribution over Z with width parameter
𝜎 > 0. We recall the following standard tail bound on the discrete Gaussian distribution.
Lemma 3.2 (Gaussian Tail Bound). For all𝜆∈ N and𝜎 > 0,
Pr[|𝑥|≥
√
𝜆𝜎 :𝑥←D Z,𝜎]≤ 2−𝜆.
Learning with errors and decomposed LWE. The learning with errors (LWE) assumption [Reg05] with param-
eters𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎 asserts that the following two distributions are computationally indistinguishable:
(B, sTB+ eT) and (B, uT), (3.1)
where B r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , s r← Z𝑛
𝑞, e←D 𝑚
Z,e𝜎, and u r← Z𝑚
𝑞 . In this work, we will use the matrix commitment scheme
introduced in [Wee25]. Security of our scheme can in turn be based on either the succinct LWE assumption [Wee24]
or the weaker decomposed LWE assumption [AMR25]. In this work, we will work exclusively with the decomposed
LWE assumption since it enables constructions with transparent setup. Formally, the decomposed LWE assump-
tion [AMR25] with parameters𝑛,𝑚,𝑞,ℓ, e𝜎,𝜎 asserts that Eq. (3.1) holds even when the matrix B is sampled in the
following structured manner:
B B W(Iℓ⊗ R)+ vec(Iℓ)T⊗ G where W r← Z𝑛×ℓ𝑚
𝑞 , R←D 𝑚×ℓ𝑚
Z,𝜎 .
Here, vec(Iℓ) denotes the vectorization of the identity matrixIℓ (i.e., the vector obtained by concatenating the columns
of Iℓ). We now give the formal statement:
Assumption 3.3 (Decomposed LWE). Let𝜆 be a security parameter and let𝑛 =𝑛(𝜆),𝑚 =𝑚(𝜆),𝑞 =𝑞(𝜆),e𝜎 = e𝜎(𝜆)
be lattice parameters. Let 𝜎 > 0 be a Gaussian width parameter and ℓ ∈ N be a dimension. We say that the
(ℓ,𝜎)-decomposed LWE assumption with parameters(𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎) holds if for all efficient adversariesA, there exists
a negligible function negl(·) such that for all𝜆∈ N,
Pr[A( 1𝜆, W, R, sTB+ eT) = 1]− Pr[A( 1𝜆, W, R, uT) = 1]
 = negl(𝜆),
where B = W(Iℓ⊗ R)+ vec(Iℓ)T⊗ G∈ Z𝑛×ℓ 2𝑚
𝑞 , W r← Z𝑛×ℓ𝑚
𝑞 , R←D 𝑚×ℓ𝑚
Z,𝜎 , s r← Z𝑛
𝑞, e←D ℓ 2𝑚
Z,e𝜎 , and u r← Zℓ 2𝑚
𝑞 .
We will sometimes write “ℓ-decomposed LWE” as shorthand to refer to an instance of the(ℓ,𝜎)-decomposed LWE
assumption for some (implicitly defined) width parameter𝜎.
The work of [CW26] shows that the leftover hash lemma also holds for the matrix B in the decomposed LWE
assumption. Note that this does not follow from the standard leftover hash lemma (Lemma 3.1) because the matrixB in
Assumption 3.3 is not sampled uniformly at random. However,B contains sub-matrices that are statistically close to uni-
form, which is sufficient for the leftover hash lemma. We give the specific statement from [CW26, Corollary 2.9] here:
Lemma 3.4 (Leftover Hash Lemma for Decomposed LWE Matrix B [CW26, Corollary 2.9]). Let𝑛,𝑚,𝑞 be integers
such that𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞 and𝑞 is prime. Letℓ∈ N, ˆ𝑚 =ℓ 2𝑚, and suppose𝜎≥ log𝑚. Then, for all fixed vectors
e∈ Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 and all𝑘 = poly(𝑛), there exists a negligible function negl(·) such that the statistical distance between the
following distributions is negl(𝑛):
•
n
(W, R, BK, eTK) : W r← Z𝑛×ℓ𝑚
𝑞 , R←D 𝑚×ℓ𝑚
Z,𝜎 , K r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑘
o
; and
•
n
(W, R, U, eTK) : W r← Z𝑛×ℓ𝑚
𝑞 , R←D 𝑚×ℓ𝑚
Z,𝜎 , U r← Z𝑛×𝑘
𝑞 , K r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑘
o
,
where B = W(Iℓ⊗ R)+ vec(Iℓ)T⊗ G∈ Z𝑛× ˆ𝑚
𝑞 in both distributions.
14

Matrix commitments. Similar to [WW25], the core building block of our constructions is the matrix commitments
introduced by Wee [Wee25]. Specifically, we use the one for committing to sparse matrices from [WW25]. Here,
there are algorithms that take as input a wide matrix M∈ Z𝑛×𝐿
𝑞 and output a commitment C∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 and a low-norm
opening Z∈ Z4𝑚5×𝐿
𝑞 such that
CV𝐿 = M− BZ.
The matrices B and V𝐿 are fixed matrices determined by a set of public parameters pp, and moreover, the matrix
V𝐿 is low-norm. As in [WW25], we will consider committing to sparse matrices with an exponential total number
of columns𝐿 = 2𝜆, but only a polynomial number of non-zero columns. The work of [WW25] shows that there are
efficient algorithms to both compute the commitment to the matrix M as well as any column of V𝐿 and Z in time
that scales polynomially with the number of non-zero columns of M (rather than the total number of columns in M).
We now give the formal syntax and efficiency properties (when instantiated with the decomposed LWE assumption):
Fact 3.5 (Sparse Matrix Commitment [Wee25, WW25, adapted]). Let𝜆 be a security parameter and𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎,𝜎 be
lattice parameters (which can be functions of the security parameter𝜆). There exists a tuple of efficient algorithms
(Setup, Com, Ver, Open) with the following syntax and properties:
• Setup(1𝜆)→ ppcom: On input the security parameter𝜆, the setup algorithm outputs a set of public parameters
ppcom =(W, R, B) where W r← Z𝑛×2𝑚3
𝑞 , R∈ Z𝑚×2𝑚3
, and B = W(I2𝑚2⊗ R)+ vec(I2𝑚2)T⊗ G∈ Z𝑛×4𝑚5
𝑞 . We note
that∥R∥≤
√
𝜆·𝜎.9
• Com(ppcom, M)→ C: On input the public parameters ppcom and a (sparse) matrix M∈ Z𝑛×𝐿
𝑞 where𝐿≤ 2𝜆,
the Com algorithm outputs a commitment C∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 . This algorithm is deterministic.
• Ver(ppcom,𝑖)→ v𝑖: On input the public parameters ppcom and an index𝑖∈[ 2𝜆], the Ver algorithm outputs
a vector v𝑖∈ Z𝑚
𝑞 . This algorithm is deterministic.
• Open(ppcom, M,𝑖)→ z𝑖: On input the public parameters ppcom, a matrix M∈ Z𝑛×𝐿
𝑞 where𝐿≤ 2𝜆, and an index
𝑖∈[ 2𝜆], the Open algorithm outputs a vector z𝑖∈ Z4𝑚5
𝑞 . This algorithm is deterministic.
The matrix commitment scheme satisfies the following properties:
• Efficiency: Algorithms Com(ppcom, M) and Open(ppcom, M,·) run in time poly(𝜆,𝐾,𝑚, log𝑞) where𝐾 is the
number of non-zero columns of M. Algorithm Ver(ppcom,·) runs in time poly(𝜆,𝑚, log𝑞).
• Correctness: For all security parameters 𝜆∈ N, all public parameters ppcom =(W, R, B) in the support of
Setup(1𝜆), all matrices M =[m1|···| m𝐿]∈ Z𝑛×𝐿
𝑞 where𝐿 = 2𝜆, and all indices𝑖∈[ 2𝜆], if we set
C = Com(ppcom, M)
v𝑖 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖)
z𝑖 = Open(ppcom, M,𝑖),
the following holds:
Cv𝑖 = m𝑖− Bz𝑖. (3.2)
Moreover,∥v𝑖∥ and∥z𝑖∥ satisfy the following norm bounds:
∥v𝑖∥≤ 𝑂(∥ R∥· 𝑚4 log𝑞) and ∥z𝑖∥≤ 𝑂(∥ R∥· 𝑚7 log𝑞 log𝐿).
Since Setup(1𝜆) always outputs R∈ Z𝑚×2𝑚3
where∥R∥≤ 𝜎
√
𝜆, this means that for all𝐿≤ 2𝜆, we can bound
∥v𝑖∥≤ 𝑂(∥ R∥· 𝑚4 log𝑞)≤ 𝑂(𝜎
√
𝜆·𝑚4 log𝑞) =𝑂(𝑚4𝜎 log𝑞·
√
𝜆),
∥z𝑖∥≤ 𝑂(∥ R∥· 𝑚7 log𝑞 log𝐿)≤ 𝑂(𝜎
√
𝜆·𝑚7 log𝑞·𝜆) =𝑂(𝑚7𝜎 log𝑞·𝜆3/2).
9Strictly speaking, R←D 𝑚×2𝑚3
Z,𝜎 , so this property only holds with overwhelming probability. However, we can sample R from a truncated
discrete Gaussian distribution so the magnitude of the entries is bounded by
√
𝜆·𝜎. This does not affect correctness, and only introduces a
negligible loss to security.
15

• Security: Under the(2𝑚2,𝜎)-decomposed LWE assumption with parameters (𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎), for all efficient
adversariesA, there exists a negligible function negl(·) such that for all𝜆∈ N,
Pr[A( 1𝜆, ppcom, sTB+ eT) = 1]− Pr[A( 1𝜆, ppcom, uT) = 1]
 = negl(𝜆),
where ppcom =(W, R, B)← Setup(1𝜆), s r← Z𝑛
𝑞, e←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎, and u r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 , where ˆ𝑚 =(2𝑚2)2·𝑚 = 4𝑚5.
4 Incremental Distributed Broadcast Encryption
In this section, we introduce our notion of incremental distributed broadcast encryption, which serves as the cryp-
tographic core of our group-messaging scheme. We start by introducing the syntax and functionality requirements
of the primitive. At a high level, an incremental distributed broadcast encryption scheme consists of a tuple of
efficient algorithms ΠIncDBE =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc, Dec). In Section 6, we show formally how to use
an incremental distributed broadcast encryption scheme to construct a continuous group key agreement scheme.
Here, we start with a high-level description of how these algorithms map to a group messaging setting.
• Setup and key generation. A system administrator runs Setup to generate a set of public parameters pp. We
assume each user in the system is associated with a distinct index𝑖. Each user𝑖 can generate their individual
key-pair(pk𝑖, sk𝑖) by running KeyGen(pp,𝑖).
• Updating keys when users join or leave the system. Whenever a new user joins the system or an existing
user leaves the system, each user𝑖 in the system uses the IncPK and IncSK algorithms to update the global
(public) encryption key apk as well as their individual secret key ask𝑖. All of the users share the global encryp-
tion key apk (which is an aggregate public key derived from the public keys of all of the users in the group).
Each user’s individual secret key ask𝑖 is a function of both the user’s secret key sk𝑖 as well as the public keys
of the other users in the group. The “incremental” property of the scheme requires that the amount of work
each user has to perform to update the public key apk and their local decryption key ask𝑖 depends only on
the number of users that are joining or leaving the system, and not the total number of users in the system.
• Encryption and decryption. To send a message𝜇 to the current set of users, a sender (in the group) runs the
encryption algorithm Enc using the current public key apk. The encryption algorithm outputs a ciphertext ct.
Upon receiving ct, each recipient𝑖 runs the decryption algorithm Dec with their secret keyask𝑖. The decryption
algorithm outputs the plaintext message.
We now give the formal definition.
Definition 4.1 (Incremental Distributed Broadcast Encryption). An incremental distributed broadcast encryption
scheme is a tuple of efficient algorithmsΠIncDBE =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc, Dec) with the following syntax:
• Setup(1𝜆)→ pp: On input the security parameter𝜆, the setup algorithm outputs a set of public parameters pp.
• KeyGen(pp,𝑖)→( pk𝑖, sk𝑖): On input the public parameters pp and an index 𝑖∈[ 2𝜆], the key-generation
algorithm outputs a public key pk𝑖 and a secret key sk𝑖.
• IncPK(pp, apk,(𝑖, pk𝑖), op)→ apk′: On input the public parameters pp, an aggregated public key apk, a public
key pk𝑖 (with index𝑖), and an operation op∈{ Add, Remove}, the update-public-key algorithm computes a
new aggregated public key apk′. This algorithm is deterministic.
• IncSK(pp, ask𝑖∗,(𝑖, pk𝑖), op)→ ask′
𝑖∗: On input the public parameters pp, an aggregated secret key ask𝑖∗ for
user𝑖∗, a public key pk𝑖 (with index𝑖), and an operation op∈{ Add, Remove}, the update-secret-key algorithm
computes an updated aggregated secret key ask′
𝑖∗. This algorithm is deterministic.
• Enc(pp, apk,𝜇) →ct: On input the public parameters pp, an aggregated public key apk, and a message
𝜇∈{ 0, 1}, the encryption algorithm outputs a ciphertext ct.
• Dec(pp, ask𝑖, ct)→ 𝜇: On input the public parameters pp, the aggregated secret key ask𝑖, and a ciphertext ct,
the decryption algorithm outputs a message𝜇∈{ 0, 1}.
16

Correctness. The correctness requirement for an incremental DBE scheme states that for any sequence of add
and remove operations, whenever a user encrypts a message to the current group, all users currently in the group
can decrypt it using their respective aggregated secret keys. To formally define correctness, we define two helper
subroutines: (1) an UpdateAPK subroutine that tracks the current aggregated public key associated with the group;
and (2) an UpdateASK algorithm that tracks the aggregated secret key associated with a particular user. We use these
subroutines to streamline our correctness and security definitions.
In more detail, the UpdateAPK subroutine takes the public parameters pp, the current aggregated public key
associated with the group (initially⊥), the public key pk𝑖 associated with a user who is either joining or leaving the
group, and a mapping𝑆 representing the current members of the group (i.e.,𝑆 maps an index 𝑗 to a public key pk𝑗).
The UpdateAPK subroutine then outputs the updated aggregated public key and the updated membership mapping
after the operation. Throughout, we write𝑖∈𝑆 to denote that the index𝑖 is in the domain of the mapping𝑆, and
we write∅ to denote the empty mapping. We define the syntax formally below:
Definition 4.2 (UpdateAPK Subroutine for Incremental DBE) . Let ΠIncDBE =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc,
Dec) be an incremental distributed broadcast encryption scheme. We define the UpdateAPK subroutine as follows:
UpdateAPK(pp, apk,(𝑖, pk𝑖), op,𝑆)
Inputs: Public parameters pp, an aggregated public key apk, a public key pk𝑖, an operation op∈{Add, Remove}, and
a mapping𝑆 that maps an index 𝑗 (of a group member) to a public key pk𝑗 .
Outputs: Updated aggregated public key apk and updated mapping𝑆.
Computation:
• If op = Add and𝑖 ∉𝑆, compute apk = IncPK(pp, apk,(𝑖, pk𝑖), Add). Set𝑆[𝑖] = pk𝑖 and return(apk,𝑆).
• If op = Remove and𝑆[𝑖] = pk𝑖, compute apk = IncPK(pp, apk,(𝑖, pk𝑖), Remove). Remove 𝑖 from𝑆 and return
(apk,𝑆).
• In all other cases, return(apk,𝑆).
Next, we define the corresponding UpdateASK subroutine that keeps track of a user’s aggregate secret key as users
join or leave the group. The UpdateASK subroutine takes the following inputs:
• the public parameters pp,
• the current set of group members𝑆, represented as a mapping from the index 𝑗 of a group member to their
public key pk𝑗,
• the secret key sk𝑖∗ and the aggregated secret key ask𝑖∗ for the user performing the update (i.e., user𝑖∗),
• the public key pk𝑖 of the user joining/leaving the group, and
• the description of the operation op (i.e., specifying whether user𝑖 is joining or leaving the group).
The UpdateASK subroutine outputs the updated secret key ask𝑖∗ associated with user 𝑖∗. In the correctness and
security definitions, the challenger uses UpdateASK to track the aggregated secret key ask𝑖∗ for each user. We now
describe the formal syntax and behavior and then give our formal correctness definition:
Definition 4.3 (UpdateASK Subroutine for Incremental DBE) . Let ΠIncDBE =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc,
Dec) be an incremental distributed broadcast encryption scheme. We define the UpdateASK subroutine as follows:
17

UpdateASK pp,(𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗, ask𝑖∗),(𝑖, pk𝑖), op,𝑆 
Inputs: Public parameters pp, a secret key sk𝑖∗ and aggregated secret key ask𝑖∗ for user𝑖∗, a public key pk𝑖 for user
𝑖, an operation op∈{Add, Remove}, and a mapping𝑆 that maps an index 𝑗 (of a group member) to a public key pk𝑗 .
Outputs: Updated aggregated secret key ask𝑖∗.
Computation:
• Suppose op = Add and𝑖 ∉𝑆. We consider two cases:
– If𝑖∗∈𝑆, return the updated key ask𝑖∗ = IncSK(pp, ask𝑖∗,(𝑖, pk𝑖), Add).
– If 𝑖∗ = 𝑖, then initialize ask𝑖∗ = sk𝑖∗. Then, for each index 𝑗 ∈ 𝑆 in lexicographic order, run
ask𝑖∗ = IncSK(pp, ask𝑖∗,(𝑗,𝑆[𝑗]), Add). Return ask𝑖∗.
• Suppose op = Remove and𝑆[𝑖] = pk𝑖. We consider two cases:
– If𝑖∗∈𝑆 and𝑖∗ ≠𝑖, return the updated key ask𝑖∗ = IncSK(pp, ask𝑖∗,(𝑖, pk𝑖), Remove).
– If𝑖∗ =𝑖, return ask𝑖∗ =⊥.
• In all other cases (in particular, whenever𝑖∗ ∉𝑆∪{𝑖}), return ask𝑖∗ unchanged.
Definition 4.4 (Correctness). Let ΠIncDBE =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc, Dec) be an incremental distributed
broadcast encryption scheme. Let 𝜆∈ N be a security parameter,𝑄∈ N be the number of queries, pp be a set of
public parameters, and{( ind𝑗, pk𝑗, op𝑗)}𝑗∈[𝑄] be a sequence of queries where op𝑗∈{Add, Remove}. For an index
𝑖∗∈[ 2𝜆] and a public/secret key-pair(pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗), we define the triple(apk𝑄, ask𝑖∗,𝑄,𝑆𝑄) associated with this sequence
as follows:
• Initialize apk0 =⊥, ask𝑖∗,0 =⊥, and𝑆0 =∅.
• For each 𝑗∈[ 𝑄], compute
(apk𝑗,𝑆𝑗) = UpdateAPK(pp, apk𝑗−1,(ind𝑗, pk𝑗), op𝑗,𝑆𝑗−1)
ask𝑖∗,𝑗 = UpdateASK(pp,(𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗, ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1),(ind𝑗, pk𝑗), op𝑗,𝑆𝑗−1).
• Output(apk𝑄, ask𝑖∗,𝑄,𝑆𝑄).
We say ΠIncDBE is correct if for all security parameters𝜆∈ N, all pp in the support of Setup(1𝜆), all𝑄≤ 2𝜆, all indices
𝑖∗∈[ 2𝜆], all(pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗) in the support of KeyGen(pp,𝑖∗), all sequences{( ind𝑗, pk𝑗, op𝑗)}𝑗∈[𝑄] where𝑆𝑄[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,
and all messages𝜇∈{ 0, 1}, we have
Pr[Dec(pp, ask𝑖∗,𝑄, ct) =𝜇 : ct← Enc(pp, apk𝑄,𝜇)] = 1,
where(apk𝑄, ask𝑖∗,𝑄,𝑆𝑄) is the triple associated with the sequence{( ind𝑗, pk𝑗, op𝑗)}𝑗∈[𝑄].
Succinctness. Our succinctness requirement stipulates that the size of the aggregate public key apk and the size
of the aggregate secret key ask output by IncPK and IncSK are short (i.e., have size that is independent of the size
of the group).
Definition 4.5 (Succinctness). There exists a universal polynomial poly(·) such that for all security parameters
𝜆∈ N, all public parameters pp in the support of Setup(1𝜆), the size of the aggregated public key apk output by
IncPK(pp,·,·,·) and the size of the aggregated secret key ask output by IncSK(pp,·,·,·) are bounded by poly(𝜆).
Incremental DBE security. We now define semantic security for incremental distributed broadcast encryption.
In the adaptive definition, an adversary may dynamically add or remove users from the group. In the static variant,
we require the adversary to commit to its entire sequence of add/remove operations at the start of the game. In both
cases, we require semantic security for any ciphertext encrypted with respect to the group public key provided that
the adversary has not corrupted any user in the final group. We now give the formal definition.
18

Definition 4.6 (Adaptive Security). Let ΠIncDBE =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc, Dec) be an incremental dis-
tributed broadcast encryption scheme. For a security parameter𝜆∈ N, an adversaryA, and a challenge bit𝑏∈{ 0, 1},
we define the incremental distributed broadcast encryption security game as follows:
• Setup phase: The challenger starts by sampling pp← Setup(1𝜆) and initializes a counter ctr = 0 and an
(initially empty) dictionary D to keep track of key-generation queries. It also initializes a mapping𝑆 =∅ that
maps the index of each member of the current broadcast set to their public key, a set𝑇 =∅ to keep track of
the counters associated with the current broadcast set, the initial aggregated public key apk =⊥, and a set
of corrupted countersC =∅.
• Pre-challenge query phase: The adversary may issue the following queries:
– Key-generation queries: On input an index𝑖∈[ 2𝜆], the challenger increments the counter ctr = ctr+ 1
and samples(pkctr, skctr)← KeyGen(pp,𝑖). It also initializes an aggregate decryption key askctr =⊥ and
adds the mapping ctr↦→( 𝑖, pkctr, skctr, askctr) to D. The challenger gives pkctr to the adversaryA.
– Corruption queries: On input a counter value𝑐∈[ ctr], the challenger looks up(𝑖, pk𝑐, sk𝑐, ask𝑐) = D[𝑐]
and returns(sk𝑐, ask𝑐). The challenger then updatesC =C∪{ 𝑐}.
– Update queries: On input a counter value𝑐∈[ ctr] and an operation op∈{Add, Remove}, the challenger
looks up(𝑖, pk𝑐, sk𝑐, ask𝑐) = D[𝑐]. The challenger then checks the following conditions and responds
with⊥ if either holds:
∗ Associating a key with an existing index 𝑖: op = Add and𝑖∈𝑆;
∗ Removing a public key that is not in the group: op = Remove and𝑐 ∉𝑇 .
Otherwise, the challenger proceeds as follows:
∗ The challenger first computes the updated aggregated public key and membership mapping
(apk′,𝑆′) = UpdateAPK(pp, apk,(𝑖, pk𝑐), op,𝑆).
∗ For each𝑡∈𝑇∪{𝑐}, the challenger looks up(𝑖𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡, ask𝑡) = D[𝑡]. Next, for each𝑡∈𝑇∪{𝑐},
the challenger computes the updated aggregate decryption key
ask𝑡 = UpdateASK pp,(𝑖𝑡, sk𝑡, ask𝑡),(𝑖, pk𝑐), op,𝑆 ,
using the previous mapping𝑆 (i.e., the mapping from before the current operation). The challenger
updates D[𝑡] =(𝑖𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡, ask𝑡).
∗ The challenger then updates apk = apk′ and𝑆 =𝑆′.
∗ If op = Add, then the challenger updates𝑇 =𝑇∪{𝑐}. If op = Remove, then it updates𝑇 =𝑇\{𝑐}.
The challenger responds with the updated aggregate public key apk as well as the updated aggregate
decryption key ask𝑡 for all corrupted users𝑡∈𝑇∩C .
• Challenge phase: When the adversary is finished making queries and proceeds to the challenge phase, the
challenger starts by checking if𝑇 =∅ or if𝑇∩C ≠∅. In either case, the challenger halts the experiment
with output 0. Otherwise, the challenger responds with the challenge ciphertext ct∗← Enc(pp, apk,𝑏). The
challenger also sets𝑇∗ =𝑇 to remember the set of counters associated with the challenge ciphertext.
• Post-challenge query phase: Same as the pre-challenge query phase above, except the adversary is no longer
allowed to make a corruption query on any counter𝑐∈𝑇∗.
• Output phase: At the end of the experiment, the adversary outputs a bit𝑏′∈{ 0, 1}, which is the output of
the experiment.
We say an incremental DBE scheme issecure if for all efficient adversariesA, there exists a negligible function negl(·)
such that for all𝜆∈ N,  Pr[𝑏′ = 1 :𝑏 = 0]− Pr[𝑏′ = 1 :𝑏 = 1]
≤ negl(𝜆),
where𝑏′∈{ 0, 1} is the output of an execution of the above security experiment.
19

Remark 4.7 (Registering Malicious Keys). In Definition 4.6, the challenger generates the public keys for each user
honestly and the adversary has the ability to pick the subset of keys that are added to the group. We could consider
a stronger definition that would allow the adversary to choose the public keys for corrupted users. As long as none of
these corrupted users are present in the group during the challenge phase, we could still expect security to hold. Giving
the adversary the ability to choose its own public keys is a standard requirement in registration-based cryptographic
schemes as well as other trustless cryptographic schemes (e.g., [GHMR18, HLWW23, GKPW24, CW26]). In the context
of group messaging, this stronger notion would correspond to security against insider attacks [AJM22]. In this work
(specifically, in Section 6), we focus on the weaker notion of security where we assume that group members generate
their keys honestly, and security is required only against a passive adversary that may corrupt users’ states but does not
actively inject malicious keys into the group. For this reason, we opt here for the weaker security definition for incre-
mental distributed broadcast encryption that does not allow the adversary to choose the public keys for corrupted users.
Remark 4.8 (Multi-Bit Messages). While we have defined the syntax and security of incremental DBE for encrypting
bits, it is straightforward to support longer messages by simply encrypting bit by bit. In the security definition, we
would now allow the adversary to submit two equal-length messages𝜇0,𝜇 1 during the challenge phase and receive
an encryption of𝜇𝑏.
Definition 4.9 (Static Security). The static security game for an incremental DBE scheme ΠIncDBE is identical to the
security game from Definition 4.6, except the adversary commits to all of its pre-challenge queries (i.e., key-generation
queries, corruption queries, and update queries) at the beginning of the experiment. The post-challenge query phase
is unchanged. We say ΠIncDBE satisfies static security if for all efficient adversariesA, there exists a negligible function
negl(·) such that for all𝜆∈ N,
 Pr[𝑏′ = 1 :𝑏 = 0]− Pr[𝑏′ = 1 :𝑏 = 1]
≤ negl(𝜆),
where𝑏′∈{ 0, 1} is the output of an execution of the static security experiment.
4.1 Constructing Incremental Distributed Broadcast Encryption
Our construction relies on the matrix commitment scheme for sparse matrices from Fact 3.5. To obtain our incremental
distributed broadcast encryption scheme, we rely on the fact that the scheme in Fact 3.5 is incremental. We show
this formally below and then give our incremental distributed broadcast encryption scheme.
Claim 4.10 (Linearity of Matrix Commitment). Let𝜆 be a security parameter and𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎,𝜎 be lattice parameters.
Let(Setup, Com, Ver, Open) be the sparse matrix commitment scheme from Fact 3.5. Take any ppcom =(W, R, B)
in the support of Setup(1𝜆), any collection of matrices M1,..., M𝑘∈ Z𝑛×𝐿
𝑞 where𝐿≤ 2𝜆, any collection of scalars
𝛼1,...,𝛼 𝑘∈{− 1, 0, 1}, and any index𝑖∈[ 2𝜆]. Let
M =
∑︁
𝑗∈[𝑘]
𝛼𝑗· M𝑗,
C =
∑︁
𝑗∈[𝑘]
𝛼𝑗· C𝑗 where C𝑗 = Com(ppcom, M𝑗),
z𝑖 =
∑︁
𝑗∈[𝑘]
𝛼𝑗· z𝑗,𝑖 where z𝑗,𝑖 = Open(ppcom, M𝑗,𝑖),
v𝑖 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖).
Then, Cv𝑖 = m𝑖− Bz𝑖, where m𝑖 is the 𝑖th column of M. Moreover, ∥v𝑖∥ ≤𝑂(∥ R∥· 𝑚4 log𝑞) and∥z𝑖∥ ≤
𝑂(𝑘·∥ R∥· 𝑚7 log𝑞 log𝐿).
Proof. By the correctness of the matrix commitment scheme (Eq. (3.2)), for each 𝑗∈[ 𝑘] we have
C𝑗v𝑖 = m𝑗,𝑖− Bz𝑗,𝑖,
20

where m𝑗,𝑖 is the𝑖th column of M𝑗. Thus, we get
Cv𝑖 = '›
«
∑︁
𝑗∈[𝑘]
𝛼𝑗C𝑗
“ﬁ
‹
v𝑖 =
∑︁
𝑗∈[𝑘]
 𝛼𝑗(m𝑗,𝑖− Bz𝑗,𝑖) =
∑︁
𝑗∈[𝑘]
 𝛼𝑗m𝑗,𝑖
− B
∑︁
𝑗∈[𝑘]
 𝛼𝑗z𝑗,𝑖
 = m𝑖− Bz𝑖.
For the norm bounds, the bound on∥v𝑖∥ is immediate from Fact 3.5. For∥z𝑖∥, the vector z𝑖 is a linear combination
of at most𝑘 vectors z𝑗,𝑖 , each of norm∥z𝑗,𝑖∥≤ 𝑂(∥ R∥· 𝑚7 log𝑞 log𝐿) by Fact 3.5. The claim then follows by the
triangle inequality. □
Construction 4.11 (Incremental Distributed Broadcast Encryption). Let𝜆 be a security parameter and𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎,𝜎 be
lattice parameters (as in Fact 3.5). Let ˆ𝑚 = 4𝑚5 and𝜉 =⌊𝑞/2⌋. Let(Setupcom, Com, Ver, Open) denote the algorithms
of the sparse matrix commitment scheme from Fact 3.5. We construct an incremental distributed broadcast encryption
scheme ΠIncDBE =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc, Dec) as follows:
• Setup(1𝜆): On input the security parameter𝜆, the setup algorithm samples the matrix commitment parameters
ppcom =(W, R, B)← Setupcom(1𝜆), together with A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 and p r← Z𝑛
𝑞. It outputs pp =(ppcom, A, p).
• KeyGen(pp,𝑖): On input the public parameters pp =(ppcom, A, p) where ppcom =(W, R, B) and an index𝑖∈
[2𝜆], the key-generation algorithm samplesr𝑖
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚 and computes the verification vectorv𝑖 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖).
It then defines the public key t𝑖 B Br𝑖+ p− Av𝑖∈ Z𝑛
𝑞 and the initial local openingez𝑖 B Open(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖,𝑖),
where u𝑖 is the𝑖th standard basis vector. It outputs the public key pk𝑖 = t𝑖 and the secret key sk𝑖 =(𝑖, r𝑖,ez𝑖).
• IncPK(pp, apk,(𝑖, pk𝑖), op): On input the public parameters pp = (ppcom, A, p), an aggregate public key
apk = eC∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 (where we interpret apk =⊥ to be the all-zeroes matrix), a public key pk𝑖 = t𝑖 for user𝑖, and
an operation op∈{ Add, Remove}, the public-update algorithm computes the commitment
C(𝑖) = Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖). (4.1)
If op = Add, it outputs apk′ = eC+ C(𝑖). If op = Remove, it outputs apk′ = eC− C(𝑖).
• IncSK(pp, ask𝑖∗,(𝑖, pk𝑖), op): On input the public parameters pp = (ppcom, A, p), an aggregate secret key
ask𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗), a public key pk𝑖 = t𝑖 for user𝑖, and an operation op∈{ Add, Remove}, the private-update
algorithm proceeds as follows:
– If𝑖∗ =𝑖, it returns ask𝑖∗ unchanged. Otherwise, it computes the local opening
z(𝑖,𝑖∗) = Open(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖,𝑖∗). (4.2)
– If op = Add, it outputs ask′
𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗+ z(𝑖,𝑖∗)).
– If op = Remove, it outputs ask′
𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗− z(𝑖,𝑖∗)).
• Enc(pp, apk,𝜇): On input the public parameters pp =(ppcom, A, p) where ppcom =(W, R, B), an aggregate
public key apk = eC, and a message𝜇∈{ 0, 1}, the encryption algorithm samples
s r← Z𝑛
𝑞, e←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎, D1
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚, d2
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚.
If∥e∥≥
√
𝜆e𝜎, it resets e = 0 ˆ𝑚. It then outputs the ciphertext ct =(c1, c2,𝑐 3) where
cT
1 = sTB+ eT, cT
2 = sT(A+ eC)+ eTD1, 𝑐 3 = sTp+ eTd2+𝜉·𝜇.
• Dec(pp, ask𝑖∗, ct): On input the public parameterspp =(ppcom, A, p), an aggregate secret keyask𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗),
and a ciphertext ct =(c1, c2,𝑐 3), the decryption algorithm computes the verification vector v𝑖∗ = Ver(ppcom,𝑖∗)
and outputs
𝜇′ =⌊𝑐3+ cT
1(r𝑖∗−ez𝑖∗)− cT
2v𝑖∗⌉2.
21

Theorem 4.12 (Correctness). Suppose𝑛,𝑚,𝜎, e𝜎 = poly(𝜆). Then, there is a fixed polynomial poly(·) such that for
all𝑞/log𝑞 > 2𝜆· poly(𝜆), Construction 4.11 is correct.
Proof. Fix a security parameter𝜆, a set of public parameters pp =(ppcom, A, p) in the support of Setup(1𝜆), an index
𝑖∗∈[ 2𝜆], a key-pair(pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗) in the support of KeyGen(pp,𝑖∗), and a sequence of queries{( ind𝑗, pk𝑗, op𝑗)}𝑗∈[𝑄]
where𝑄≤ 2𝜆. For 𝑗∈{ 0, 1,...,𝑄 }, let(apk𝑗, ask𝑖∗,𝑗,𝑆𝑗) be the values computed in Definition 4.4. Our goal is to
show that if𝑆𝑄[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗, then for all messages𝜇∈{ 0, 1}, we have Dec(pp, ask𝑖∗,𝑄, ct) =𝜇 with probability 1, where
ct← Enc(pp, apk𝑄,𝜇). First, we note the following:
• Since(pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗) is in the support of KeyGen(pp,𝑖∗), we can write pk𝑖∗ = t𝑖∗∈ Z𝑛
𝑞 and sk𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗, z(𝑖∗,𝑖∗)),
where r𝑖∗∈{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚 and z(𝑖∗,𝑖∗)∈ Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 is the local opening from Eq. (4.2), and
t𝑖∗ = Br𝑖∗+ p− Av𝑖∗ where v𝑖∗ = Ver(ppcom,𝑖∗). (4.3)
• From Fact 3.5, we have ppcom =(W, R, B), where∥R∥≤ 𝜎
√
𝜆. Moreover, for all matrices M∈ Z𝑛×𝐿
𝑞 with𝐿≤ 2𝜆
and all indices𝑖∈[ 2𝜆], the vectors v𝑖 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖) and z𝑖 = Open(ppcom, M,𝑖) satisfy
∥v𝑖∥≤ 𝑂 𝑚4𝜎 log𝑞·𝜆1/2 and ∥z𝑖∥≤ 𝑂 𝑚7𝜎 log𝑞·𝜆3/2. (4.4)
Induction invariant. To prove the statement, we start by proving an induction invariant on the triples(apk𝑗, ask𝑖∗,𝑗,𝑆𝑗).
Specifically, for each𝑗∈{ 0, 1,...,𝑄 } and for each index 𝑗′∈𝑆𝑗, let t𝑗′ =𝑆𝑗[𝑗′]∈ Z𝑛
𝑞 be the public key associated
with index 𝑗′. Let C(𝑗′) and z(𝑗′,𝑖∗) be the commitment and local opening associated with (𝑗′, t𝑗′) from Eqs. (4.1)
and (4.2). We claim that the following two properties hold for all𝑗∈{ 0, 1,...,𝑄 }:
• Aggregated public key: apk𝑗 = ˝
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗 C(𝑗′), where we interpret apk𝑗 =⊥ as the all-zeroes matrix.
• Aggregated secret key: if𝑆𝑗[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗, then ask𝑖∗,𝑗 =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗,𝑗) whereez𝑖∗,𝑗 = ˝
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗 z(𝑗′,𝑖∗).
Claim 4.13 (Invariant Preservation). For all 𝑗∈{ 0, 1,...,𝑄 }, the induction invariant holds.
Proof. We proceed by induction on𝑗.
Base case. For the base case where 𝑗 = 0, we have apk0 =⊥, ask𝑖∗,0 =⊥, and𝑆0 =∅. Both properties hold trivially
since𝑆0 =∅.
Inductive step. For the inductive step, suppose the invariant holds for(apk𝑗−1, ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1,𝑆𝑗−1) and consider the
query(ind𝑗, pk𝑗, op𝑗). To simplify notation, let𝑖 = ind𝑗. First, if neither of the conditions (op𝑗 = Add and𝑖 ∉𝑆𝑗−1) or
(op𝑗 = Remove and𝑆𝑗−1[𝑖] = pk𝑗) holds, then UpdateAPK and UpdateASK leave their inputs unchanged. In this case,
apk𝑗 = apk𝑗−1 and ask𝑖∗,𝑗 = ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1 and 𝑆𝑗 =𝑆𝑗−1.
Thus, if the induction invariant holds for(apk𝑗−1, ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1,𝑆𝑗−1), then it also holds for(apk𝑗, ask𝑖∗,𝑗,𝑆𝑗). It remains
to consider the two cases where the query is non-trivial:
• Case op𝑗 = Add and𝑖 ∉ 𝑆𝑗−1: In this case, 𝑆𝑗 = 𝑆𝑗−1∪{𝑖} with𝑆𝑗[𝑖] = pk𝑗 and𝑆𝑗[𝑗′] = 𝑆𝑗−1[𝑗′] for all
𝑗′∈𝑆𝑗−1. By construction, IncPK outputs
apk𝑗 = apk𝑗−1+ C(𝑖) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
C(𝑗′)+ C(𝑖) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗
C(𝑗′),
where the second equality uses the inductive hypothesis. For the aggregated secret key, suppose𝑆𝑗[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗
(otherwise, the second property holds vacuously). We consider two sub-cases:
22

– Suppose 𝑖∗ ≠ 𝑖. Then 𝑆𝑗−1[𝑖∗] = 𝑆𝑗[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗. Then, by the inductive hypothesis, we have that
ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1 =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,˝
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1 z(𝑗′,𝑖∗)). In this case, UpdateASK invokes IncSK on(𝑖, pk𝑗) with operation Add,
which adds the local opening z(𝑖,𝑖∗) to the aggregated opening. Thus,
ez𝑖∗,𝑗 =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗)+ z(𝑖,𝑖∗) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗).
– Suppose𝑖∗ =𝑖. In this case, pk𝑗 =𝑆𝑗[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗. Then UpdateASK initializes ask𝑖∗ = sk𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗, z(𝑖∗,𝑖∗))
and invokes IncSK on(𝑗′, t𝑗′) with operation Add for each member𝑗′∈𝑆𝑗−1, which adds the local opening
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗). Thus,
ez𝑖∗,𝑗 = z(𝑖∗,𝑖∗)+
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗).
In both cases, the induction invariant holds.
• Case op𝑗 = Remove and𝑆𝑗−1[𝑖] = pk𝑗 : In this case,𝑆𝑗 =𝑆𝑗−1\{𝑖}. Let pk𝑗 = t𝑖. By construction, IncPK first
computes eC(𝑖) = Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖). Since 𝑆𝑗−1[𝑖] = pk𝑗 = t𝑖, this means C(𝑖) = eC(𝑖). Thus, the output of
IncPK satisfies
apk𝑗 = apk𝑗−1− eC(𝑖) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
C(𝑗′)− C(𝑖) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗
C(𝑗′).
For the aggregated secret key, suppose𝑆𝑗[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗ (otherwise the second property holds vacuously). This
means that𝑖∗ ≠𝑖 and𝑆𝑗−1[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗, so by the inductive hypothesis, ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1 =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,˝
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1 z(𝑗′,𝑖∗)). In this
case, UpdateASK invokes IncSK on(𝑖, pk𝑗) with operation Remove, which subtracts the local opening z(𝑖,𝑖∗).
Since Open is deterministic, this means
ez𝑖∗,𝑗 =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗)− z(𝑖,𝑖∗) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗).
In both cases, we again see that the induction invariant holds. The claim now follows by induction. □
Completing the proof. To complete the proof, suppose 𝑆𝑄[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗, and write eC = apk𝑄 and ask𝑖∗,𝑄 =
(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗,𝑄). By Claim 4.13, this means
eC =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆𝑄
C(𝑗′) and ez𝑖∗,𝑄 =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆𝑄
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗).
From Eqs. (4.1) and (4.2), we have that C(𝑗′) = Com(ppcom, uT
𝑗′⊗ t𝑗′) and z(𝑗′,𝑖∗) = Open(ppcom, uT
𝑗′⊗ t𝑗′,𝑖∗). By
Claim 4.10, this means
eCv𝑖∗ =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆𝑄
C(𝑗′)· v𝑖∗ = t𝑖∗− B
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆𝑄
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗) = t𝑖∗− Bez𝑖∗,𝑄. (4.5)
Moreover, by Eq. (4.4),
∥ez𝑖∗,𝑄∥≤| 𝑆𝑄|· 𝑂 𝑚7𝜎 log𝑞·𝜆3/2. (4.6)
Now take any message𝜇∈{ 0, 1} and let ct =(c1, c2,𝑐 3) be an encryption of𝜇. By construction of Construction 4.11,
we can write
cT
1 = sTB+ eT, cT
2 = sT(A+ eC)+ eTD1, 𝑐 3 = sTp+ eTd2+𝜉𝜇.
The decryption algorithm Dec(pp, ask𝑖∗,𝑄, ct) now computes
𝜇′ =⌊𝑐3+ cT
1(r𝑖∗−ez𝑖∗,𝑄)− cT
2v𝑖∗⌉2.
Substituting the ciphertext components and regrouping terms gives
𝜇′ =⌊𝜉𝜇+ eTd2+ eTr𝑖∗− eTD1v𝑖∗− eTez𝑖∗,𝑄+ sT p+ Br𝑖∗− Bez𝑖∗,𝑄− Av𝑖∗− eCv𝑖∗
⌉2.
23

By Eq. (4.3), p+ Br𝑖∗− Av𝑖∗ = t𝑖∗, and by Eq. (4.5), eCv𝑖∗ = t𝑖∗− Bez𝑖∗,𝑄, so we have
𝜇′ =⌊𝜉𝜇+ eTd2+ eTr𝑖∗− eTD1v𝑖∗− eTez𝑖∗,𝑄
|                                  {z                                  }
𝜈
⌉2.
It remains to bound|𝜈|. By construction of Enc,∥e∥≤ 𝜆1/2e𝜎. In addition, r𝑖∗, d2∈{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚, D1∈{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚. Thus, by
Eq. (4.4) and Eq. (4.6), this gives
|𝜈|≤ ˆ𝑚𝜆 1/2e𝜎

2+𝑂 𝑚5𝜎 log𝑞·𝜆1/2+|𝑆𝑄|· 𝑂 𝑚7𝜎 log𝑞·𝜆3/2
≤| 𝑆𝑄|· 𝑂  ˆ𝑚𝑚7𝜎e𝜎·𝜆2 log𝑞,
where the second inequality uses |𝑆𝑄| ≥ 1 (which holds since 𝑖∗ ∈ 𝑆𝑄). Finally, since |𝑆𝑄| ≤𝑄 ≤ 2𝜆 and
𝑛,𝑚,𝜎, e𝜎 = poly(𝜆), we conclude that
|𝜈|≤ 2𝜆· poly(𝜆)· log𝑞.
Setting𝑞/log𝑞 > 4· 2𝜆· poly(𝜆) means|𝜈| < 𝑞/4. Since 𝜉 =⌊𝑞/2⌋, the rounding operation recovers 𝜇′ = 𝜇 and
correctness holds. □
Theorem 4.14 (Succinctness). Suppose𝑛,𝑚 = poly(𝜆) and𝑞≤ 2poly(𝜆). Then, Construction 4.11 satisfies succinctness
(Definition 4.5).
Proof. Take any pp =(ppcom, A, p) in the support of Setup(1𝜆). By Definition 4.5, it suffices to bound the size of the
aggregated public key output by IncPK(pp,·,·,·) and the size of the aggregated secret key output by IncSK(pp,·,·,·)
by a universal polynomial in𝜆:
• Algorithm IncPK outputs a matrix apk′∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , which can be represented using𝑛𝑚⌈log𝑞⌉ bits.
• Algorithm IncSK outputs a triple ask′
𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗), where𝑖∗∈[ 2𝜆] and r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗∈ Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 . These can be represented
using𝜆+ 2 ˆ𝑚⌈log𝑞⌉ bits.
When𝑛,𝑚 = poly(𝜆), ˆ𝑚 = 4𝑚5, and𝑞≤ 2poly(𝜆), these outputs have size poly(𝜆), as required. □
Theorem 4.15 (Static Security). If the matrix commitment scheme is secure (Fact 3.5), 𝑛≥ 𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,
𝜎≥ log𝑚,𝑚 = poly(𝜆), and𝑞 is prime, the construction above satisfies static security (Definition 4.9).
Proof. To prove security, we proceed by defining a sequence of hybrid experiments, each parameterized by a bit
𝑏∈{ 0, 1} and implicitly by an adversaryA and a security parameter𝜆:
• Hyb(𝑏)
0 : This is the static security experiment with challenge bit𝑏∈{ 0, 1}. Recall that in the static security
experiment, the adversary commits to all of its pre-challenge queries at the beginning of the experiment, before
seeing the scheme parameters. Concretely, the experiment proceeds as follows:
– Static commitment phase: At the beginning of the experiment, the adversaryA commits to the entire
sequence of pre-challenge queries it will make, where each query is one of the following:
∗ a key-generation query on an index𝑖∈[ 2𝜆];
∗ a corruption query on a counter𝑐; or
∗ an update query on a counter𝑐 and an operation op∈{Add, Remove}.
– Setup phase: The challenger begins by sampling the public parameters
ppcom =(W, R, B)← Setupcom(1𝜆), A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , p r← Z𝑛
𝑞.
Next, the challenger initializes a counter ctr = 0, a dictionary D =∅, a mapping𝑆 =∅, a set𝑇 =∅, the
aggregated public key eC = 0𝑛×𝑚 (representing apk =⊥), and a set of corrupted countersC =∅. The
challenger processes each of the committed queries in order and constructs the response to each query
as follows:
24

∗ Key-generation query on an index 𝑖∈[ 2𝜆]: The challenger increments the counter ctr = ctr+ 1.
It samples rctr
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚 and computes
v𝑖 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖)∈ Z𝑚
𝑞 and tctr = Brctr+ p− Av𝑖∈ Z𝑛
𝑞,
together with the local opening zctr = Open(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ tctr,𝑖). The challenger sets pkctr = tctr,
skctr =(𝑖, rctr, zctr), and askctr =⊥, adds the mapping ctr↦→( 𝑖, pkctr, skctr, askctr) to D, and defines
the response to the query to be pkctr.
∗ Corruption query on a counter 𝑐∈[ ctr]: The challenger looks up(𝑖, pk𝑐, sk𝑐, ask𝑐) = D[𝑐] and
defines the response to the query to be(sk𝑐, ask𝑐). In addition, the challenger updatesC =C∪ {𝑐}.
∗ Update query on a counter 𝑐∈[ ctr] and an operation op∈{Add, Remove}: The challenger
looks up(𝑖, pk𝑐, sk𝑐, ask𝑐) = D[𝑐] and writes pk𝑐 = t𝑐 and sk𝑐 =(𝑖, r𝑐, z𝑐). If either ( op = Add and
𝑖∈𝑆) or (op = Remove and𝑐 ∉𝑇 ), the challenger sets the response to this query to be⊥. Otherwise,
the challenger computes the commitment
C(𝑐) = Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑐)∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 .
In the following, for counters 𝜏,𝜏′∈𝑇∪{𝑐}, we write(𝑖𝜏, t𝜏) to denote the index and public key
associated with D[𝜏], and we write
z(𝜏,𝜏′) = Open(ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏⊗ t𝜏,𝑖𝜏′)
to denote the respective local openings. The challenger then proceeds based on the operation:
· Case op = Add: For each 𝜏 ∈ 𝑇 , the challenger looks up (𝑖𝜏, pk𝜏, sk𝜏, ask𝜏) = D[𝜏], parses
ask𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏), and updates ask𝜏 in D[𝜏] with(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏+ z(𝑐,𝜏)). For the newly added user,
the challenger computes
ask𝑐 =

𝑖, r𝑐, z𝑐+
∑︁
𝜏∈𝑇
z(𝜏,𝑐)

and updates ask𝑐 in D[𝑐]. Finally, the challenger updates the aggregated public keyeC = eC+ C(𝑐),
sets𝑆[𝑖] = t𝑐, and updates𝑇 =𝑇∪{𝑐}.
· Case op = Remove: For each𝜏∈ 𝑇\{𝑐}, the challenger looks up (𝑖𝜏, pk𝜏, sk𝜏, ask𝜏) = D[𝜏],
parses ask𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏), and updates ask𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏− z(𝑐,𝜏)) in D[𝜏]. It also sets ask𝑐 =⊥ in
D[𝑐]. Finally, the challenger updates the aggregated public key eC = eC− C(𝑐), removes𝑖 from
𝑆, and updates𝑇 =𝑇\{𝑐}.
The challenger sets the response to the query to be  eC,{(𝜏, ask𝜏)}𝜏∈𝑇∩C
.
After computing the responses to all of the committed pre-challenge queries, the challenger constructs
the challenge ciphertext as follows:
∗ If𝑇 =∅ or𝑇∩C ≠∅, the challenger halts the experiment with output 0.
∗ Otherwise, the challenger sets ˆ𝑇 =𝑇 and ˆC = eC. It samples
ˆs r← Z𝑛
𝑞, ˆe←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎, ˆD1
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚, ˆd2
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚.
If∥ ˆe∥ ≥
√
𝜆e𝜎, it resets ˆe = 0 ˆ𝑚. The challenger then constructs the challenge ciphertext ct∗ =
(ˆc1, ˆc2, ˆ𝑐3) as follows:
ˆcT
1 = ˆsTB+ ˆeT
ˆcT
2 = ˆsT(A+ ˆC)+ ˆeT ˆD1
ˆ𝑐3 = ˆsTp+ ˆeT ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏.
Finally, the challenger gives the public parameters pp = (ppcom, A, p), the responses to each of the
committed pre-challenge queries, and the challenge ciphertext ct∗ toA.
25

– Post-challenge query phase: The adversary may now make additional (adaptive) key-generation, cor-
ruption, and update queries. The challenger computes the response to each query exactly as it processed
the corresponding pre-challenge queries. The adversary is not allowed to make corruption queries on
counters𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇 (i.e., on public keys that are associated with the challenge ciphertext).
– Output phase: At the end of the experiment, the adversary outputs a bit𝑏′∈{ 0, 1}, which is the output
of the experiment.
We write Hyb(𝑏)
0 (A) to denote the output of an execution of Hyb(𝑏)
0 with adversaryA and the challenge bit
𝑏∈{ 0, 1}.
• Hyb(𝑏)
1 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
0 , except the challenger samples the public keys associated with the counters in the
challenge set ˆ𝑇 uniformly at random. Recall that in the static security experiment, the adversary commits to
all of its pre-challenge queries at the beginning of the experiment, so the set ˆ𝑇 of counters associated with
the challenge ciphertext is fully determined by the adversary’s committed query sequence. Specifically, the
challenger implements the following changes to the setup phase:
– At the beginning of the setup phase, the challenger computes the setsˆ𝑇 andC determined by the committed
sequence of queries; if ˆ𝑇 =∅ or ˆ𝑇∩C ≠∅, the challenger immediately halts the experiment with output0.
– When responding to a key-generation query whose counter satisfies ctr∈ ˆ𝑇 , the challenger now samples
tctr
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 instead of setting tctr = Brctr+ p− Av𝑖. In this case, the challenger also sets skctr =⊥ and
askctr =⊥ in D. When implementing update queries, the challenger does not update askctr.
Note that this experiment remains well-defined: the values sk𝑐 and ask𝑐 for a counter𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇 are only needed
if the adversary makes a corruption query on𝑐 or makes an update query and𝑐∈𝑇∩C . In both cases, it will
be the case that𝑐∈C and soC∩ ˆ𝑇 ≠∅. In this case, the challenger always outputs 0.
• Hyb(𝑏)
2 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
1 , except the challenger programs the commitment to the challenge set into the public
parameters. For the set ˆ𝑇 determined by the committed sequence of queries, the challenger samples the public
keys t𝑐
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 for all𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇 (as in Hyb(𝑏)
1 ), together with ˆD1
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚 and ˆd2
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚. It then computes
the aggregated public key associated with the challenge ciphertext
ˆC =
∑︁
𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇
Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖𝑐⊗ t𝑐),
where𝑖𝑐 denotes the index associated with counter𝑐 in D[𝑐]. Then the challenger sets
A = B ˆD1− ˆC and p = Bˆd2.
The rest of the experiment is unchanged. In particular, the challenger uses the values ˆD1, ˆd2 sampled above
when constructing the challenge ciphertext. Note that this is again well-defined: in Hyb(𝑏)
1 , the public keys
t𝑐 for𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇 are sampled independently of A and p, so the challenger can compute ˆC before defining A and p.
• Hyb(𝑏)
3 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
2 , except the challenger does not truncate ˆe when constructing the challenge ciphertext
(i.e., it no longer resets ˆe = 0 ˆ𝑚 when∥ ˆe∥≥
√
𝜆e𝜎).
• Hyb(𝑏)
4 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
3 , except when constructing the challenge ciphertext, the challenger samples ˆc1
r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 .
It computes the remaining components of the challenge ciphertext as
ˆcT
2 = ˆcT
1 ˆD1 and ˆ𝑐3 = ˆcT
1 ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏.
• Hyb(𝑏)
5 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
4 , except the challenger samplesp r← Z𝑛
𝑞 (instead of settingp = Bˆd2) and ˆ𝑐3
r← Z𝑞 (instead
of setting ˆ𝑐3 = ˆcT
1
ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏). In this experiment, the challenger’s behavior is independent of the challenge bit𝑏.
26

We write Hyb(𝑏)
𝑖 (A) to denote the output of an execution of Hyb(𝑏)
𝑖 with adversaryA. We now analyze each pair
of adjacent distributions.
Claim 4.16. Suppose𝑛≥𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,𝜎≥ log𝑚, and𝑞 is prime. Then, for all efficient adversariesA and
all𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the distributions Hyb(𝑏)
0 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
1 (A) are statistically indistinguishable.
Proof. We first argue that the two syntactic differences between the experiments do not affect the output distribution:
• Admissibility check: In Hyb(𝑏)
1 , the challenger performs the check that ˆ𝑇 =∅ or ˆ𝑇∩C ≠∅ at the beginning of
the setup phase rather than after processing the committed queries. Since the sets ˆ𝑇 andC are fully determined
by the committed sequence of queries (and not by the values sampled by the challenger when responding to
the queries), the outcome of the check is identically distributed in the two experiments.
• Secret keys for the counters in ˆ𝑇 : In Hyb(𝑏)
1 , the challenger sets sk𝑐 = ask𝑐 =⊥ for the counters𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇 .
Consider an execution that does not halt with output0. In this case, no counter in ˆ𝑇 is corrupted (i.e., ˆ𝑇∩C =∅),
so the values sk𝑐 and ask𝑐 for𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇 do not appear in the response to any corruption query, nor in the response
to any update query (which contains ask𝜏 only for the corrupted counters𝜏∈𝑇∩C ). Thus, the responses sent
to the adversary are identical in the two experiments.
It thus suffices to analyze the distribution of the public keys t𝑐∈ Z𝑛
𝑞 for the counters𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇 :
• In Hyb(𝑏)
0 , the challenger sets t𝑐 = Br𝑐+ p− Av𝑖𝑐 where r𝑐
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚. Nothing else in this experiment depends
on the randomness r𝑐.
• In Hyb(𝑏)
1 , the challenger samples t𝑐
r← Z𝑛
𝑞.
By Lemma 3.4, over the choice of r𝑐
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚, the distributions
(W, R, Br𝑐) and (W, R, t𝑐)
are statistically close, where t𝑐
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 and B is the matrix determined by (W, R) in ppcom. Since the vector
v𝑖𝑐 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖𝑐) is a deterministic function of ppcom and the parameters (A, p) are sampled independently
of r𝑐, this means the distribution of t𝑐 = Br𝑐+ p− Av𝑖𝑐 in Hyb(𝑏)
0 is statistically close to uniform over Z𝑛
𝑞 (and
independent of all other quantities). This coincides with the distribution of t𝑐 in Hyb(𝑏)
1 . SinceA is efficient, it makes
at most a polynomial number of key-generation queries. The claim now follows by a standard hybrid argument. □
Claim 4.17. Suppose𝑛≥ 𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,𝜎≥ log𝑚, and𝑞 is prime. Then, for all adversaries A and all
𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the distributions Hyb(𝑏)
1 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
2 (A) are statistically indistinguishable.
Proof. The only difference between the two experiments is the distribution of the public parameters(A, p):
• In Hyb(𝑏)
1 , the challenger samples A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 and p r← Z𝑛
𝑞.
• In Hyb(𝑏)
2 , the challenger sets A = B ˆD1− ˆC and p = Bˆd2, where ˆD1
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚 and ˆd2
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚 are the
randomness of the challenge ciphertext and ˆC = ˝
𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇 Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖𝑐⊗ t𝑐).
The values( ˆD1, ˆd2) are sampled independently of everything else in the experiments. Moreover, other than in the
definition of(A, p) in Hyb(𝑏)
2 , the values( ˆD1, ˆd2) only appear via the terms ˆeT ˆD1 and ˆeT ˆd2 in the challenge ciphertext
components
ˆcT
2 = ˆsT(A+ ˆC)+ ˆeT ˆD1 and ˆ𝑐3 = ˆsTp+ ˆeT ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏.
Finally, the matrix ˆC is determined by the committed sequence of queries together with the public keys t𝑐
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 for
𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇 . All of these values are sampled independently of( ˆD1, ˆd2) and of(A, p). By Lemma 3.4, the distributions

W, R, B[ ˆD1| ˆd2], ˆeT[ ˆD1| ˆd2]

and

W, R,[ ˜A| ˜p], ˆeT[ ˆD1| ˆd2]

27

are statistically close, where ˜A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 and ˜p r← Z𝑛
𝑞. The distribution on the left maps to Hyb(𝑏)
2 when we set
A = B ˆD1− ˆC and p = Bˆd2, whereas the distribution on the right maps to Hyb(𝑏)
1 when we set A = ˜A− ˆC and p = ˜p
(specifically, since ˜A is uniform and independent of ˆC, the matrix ˜A− ˆC is also uniform).
To conclude, we observe that the remainder of the two experiments is thesame deterministic function of the quanti-
ties shown above along with coins that are independent of( ˆD1, ˆd2). Concretely, the public parameters areA = B ˆD1− ˆC
and p = Bˆd2 (respectively ˜A− ˆC and ˜p, which are uniform since ˆC is independent). Every public key of a non-challenge
user, the aggregated keys, and the challenge ciphertext are derived from(A, p) and independent coins. The components
above are computed from A, p, ˆs and ˆeT[ ˆD1| ˆd2]. Statistical closeness of the two experiments therefore follows. □
Claim 4.18. Suppose𝑚 = poly(𝜆). Then, for all adversariesA and all𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the distributions Hyb(𝑏)
2 (A) and
Hyb(𝑏)
3 (A) are statistically indistinguishable.
Proof. The only difference between the two experiments is the truncation of the error vectorˆe←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎 in the challenge
ciphertext: in Hyb(𝑏)
2 , the challenger resets ˆe = 0 ˆ𝑚 whenever∥ ˆe∥≥
√
𝜆e𝜎, whereas in Hyb(𝑏)
3 , the challenger does not
check the norm of ˆe. In particular, the two experiments proceed identically unless∥ ˆe∥≥
√
𝜆e𝜎. Each entry of ˆe is an
independent sample fromDZ,e𝜎, so by the Gaussian tail bound (Lemma 3.2) and a union bound over the ˆ𝑚 entries of ˆe,
Pr

∥ ˆe∥≥
√
𝜆e𝜎

≤ ˆ𝑚· 2−𝜆.
Since ˆ𝑚 = 4𝑚5 = poly(𝜆), the statistical distance betweenHyb(𝑏)
2 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
3 (A) is at most ˆ𝑚·2−𝜆 = negl(𝜆). □
Claim 4.19. Suppose the matrix commitment scheme (Fact 3.5) is secure. Then, for all efficient adversariesA and
all𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the distributions Hyb(𝑏)
3 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
4 (A) are computationally indistinguishable.
Proof. The only difference between the two experiments is the construction of the challenge ciphertext: in Hyb(𝑏)
3 ,
the challenger samples ˆs r← Z𝑛
𝑞 and ˆe←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎 and sets
ˆcT
1 = ˆsTB+ ˆeT, ˆcT
2 = ˆsT(A+ ˆC)+ ˆeT ˆD1, ˆ𝑐3 = ˆsTp+ ˆeT ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏,
whereas in Hyb(𝑏)
4 , the challenger samples ˆc1
r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 and sets ˆcT
2 = ˆcT
1 ˆD1 and ˆ𝑐3 = ˆcT
1
ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏. Fix a bit 𝑏∈{ 0, 1}.
Suppose there exists an efficient adversaryA where
Pr[Hyb(𝑏)
3 (A) = 1]− Pr[Hyb(𝑏)
4 (A) = 1]
≥𝜀(𝜆),
for some non-negligible𝜀. We useA to construct an adversaryB for the matrix-commitment security game (Fact 3.5):
• Initialization: At the beginning of the game, algorithmB receives a challenge(ppcom, ˆy) from the matrix-
commitment challenger, where ppcom =(W, R, B) and ˆy∈ Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 is either an LWE sample ˆyT = ˆsTB+ ˆeT (where
ˆs r← Z𝑛
𝑞 and ˆe←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎) or a uniform random vector ˆy r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 .
• Static commitment phase: AlgorithmB starts running algorithmA, which commits to the entire sequence
of pre-challenge queries it will make.
• Setup phase: AlgorithmB computes the sets ˆ𝑇 andC determined by the committed sequence of queries as in
Hyb(𝑏)
3 and Hyb(𝑏)
4 . If ˆ𝑇 =∅ or ˆ𝑇∩C ≠∅, algorithmB halts with output 0. AlgorithmB uses the parameters
ppcom =(W, R, B) from its challenge instead of sampling them itself. It then samples the public keys t𝑐
r← Z𝑛
𝑞
for all𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇 together with ˆD1
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚 and ˆd2
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚 and computes
ˆC =
∑︁
𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇
Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖𝑐⊗ t𝑐),
where𝑖𝑐 denotes the index associated with counter𝑐 in the committed sequence of queries. AlgorithmB then
sets A = B ˆD1− ˆC and p = Bˆd2. Next, algorithmB initializes a counter ctr = 0, a dictionary D =∅, a mapping
𝑆 =∅, a set𝑇 =∅, the aggregated public key eC = 0𝑛×𝑚, and a set of corrupted countersC =∅, and processes
the committed queries in order as follows:
28

– Key-generation query on an index𝑖∈[ 2𝜆]: AlgorithmB increments the counterctr = ctr+1. If ctr∈ ˆ𝑇 ,
it sets pkctr = tctr (the public key sampled at the beginning of the setup phase) and skctr = askctr =⊥. If
ctr ∉ ˆ𝑇 , it samples rctr
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚, computes
v𝑖 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖), tctr = Brctr+ p− Av𝑖, zctr = Open(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ tctr,𝑖),
and sets pkctr = tctr, skctr =(𝑖, rctr, zctr), and askctr =⊥. In both cases, algorithm B adds the mapping
ctr↦→( 𝑖, pkctr, skctr, askctr) to D and defines the response to the query to be pkctr.
– Corruption query on a counter 𝑐∈[ ctr]: AlgorithmB looks up(𝑖, pk𝑐, sk𝑐, ask𝑐) = D[𝑐], defines the
response to the query to be(sk𝑐, ask𝑐), and updatesC =C∪ {𝑐}.
– Update query on a counter 𝑐∈[ ctr] and an operation op∈{Add, Remove}: AlgorithmB looks up
(𝑖, pk𝑐, sk𝑐, ask𝑐) = D[𝑐] and writes pk𝑐 = t𝑐. If either (op = Add and𝑖∈𝑆) or (op = Remove and𝑐 ∉𝑇 ),
algorithmB defines the response to this query to be⊥. Otherwise, it computes the commitment
C(𝑐) = Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑐)∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 .
As in Hyb(𝑏)
3 and Hyb(𝑏)
4 , for counters𝜏,𝜏′∈𝑇∪{𝑐}, we write(𝑖𝜏, t𝜏) to denote the index and public key
associated with D[𝜏], and we write
z(𝜏,𝜏′) = Open(ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏⊗ t𝜏,𝑖𝜏′)
to denote their respective local openings. Note that the algorithms Com and Open are deterministic, and
algorithmB knows all of their inputs (the public keys stored in D). AlgorithmB then proceeds as follows
based on the operation:
∗ Case op = Add: For each 𝜏 ∈ 𝑇\ ˆ𝑇 , algorithmB looks up (𝑖𝜏, pk𝜏, sk𝜏, ask𝜏) = D[𝜏], parses
ask𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏), and updates ask𝜏 in D[𝜏] with(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏+ z(𝑐,𝜏)). If 𝑐 ∉ ˆ𝑇 , algorithmB parses
sk𝑐 =(𝑖, r𝑐, z𝑐), computes
ask𝑐 =

𝑖, r𝑐, z𝑐+
∑︁
𝜏∈𝑇
z(𝜏,𝑐)

,
and updates ask𝑐 in D[𝑐]. Finally, algorithmB updates the aggregated public key eC = eC+ C(𝑐), sets
𝑆[𝑖] = t𝑐, and updates𝑇 =𝑇∪{𝑐}.
∗ Case op = Remove: For each𝜏∈𝑇\{𝑐} where𝜏 ∉ ˆ𝑇 , algorithmB looks up(𝑖𝜏, pk𝜏, sk𝜏, ask𝜏) = D[𝜏],
parses ask𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏), and updates ask𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏− z(𝑐,𝜏)) in D[𝜏]. It also sets ask𝑐 =⊥ in D[𝑐].
Finally, algorithmB updates the aggregated public key eC = eC− C(𝑐), removes𝑖 from𝑆, and updates
𝑇 =𝑇\{𝑐}.
As in Hyb(𝑏)
3 and Hyb(𝑏)
4 , algorithmB does not update the aggregated secret keys for the counters in ˆ𝑇 ;
these remain⊥. AlgorithmB defines the response to the query to be(eC,{(𝜏, ask𝜏)}𝜏∈𝑇∩C).
• Challenge ciphertext: AlgorithmB constructs the challenge ciphertext ct∗ =(ˆc1, ˆc2, ˆ𝑐3) where
ˆc1 = ˆy, ˆcT
2 = ˆyT ˆD1, ˆ𝑐3 = ˆyT ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏.
It gives the public parameters pp =(ppcom, A, p), the responses to the committed pre-challenge queries, and
the challenge ciphertext ct∗ toA.
• Post-challenge query phase: AlgorithmB responds to each of the adversary’s adaptive key-generation,
corruption, and update queries using the same procedure it used to process the committed pre-challenge queries.
• Output phase: At the end of the experiment, algorithmA outputs a bit𝑏′∈{ 0, 1}, which algorithmB also
outputs.
29

SinceA is efficient, algorithmB is also efficient. By construction, algorithmB implements the challenger in Hyb(𝑏)
3
and Hyb(𝑏)
4 exactly, except it uses its challenge ˆy to construct the challenge ciphertext. Other than the construction
of the challenge ciphertext, the challenger’s behavior in the two experiments is identical and does not depend on
ˆs or ˆe. We now consider the two possibilities for ˆy:
• Suppose ˆyT = ˆsTB+ ˆeT where ˆs r← Z𝑛
𝑞 and ˆe←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎. Since A+ ˆC = B ˆD1 and p = Bˆd2, this means
ˆcT
1 = ˆyT = ˆsTB+ ˆeT
ˆcT
2 = ˆyT ˆD1 =  ˆsTB+ ˆeT ˆD1 = ˆsT(A+ ˆC)+ ˆeT ˆD1
ˆ𝑐3 = ˆsTp+ ˆeT ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏 =  ˆsTB+ ˆeT ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏 = ˆyT ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏.
Thus, in this case, algorithmB constructs the challenge ciphertext exactly according to the specification in
Hyb(𝑏)
3 .
• Suppose ˆy r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 . Then ˆc1 = ˆy is uniform over Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 , and algorithmB sets ˆcT
2 = ˆcT
1 ˆD1 and ˆ𝑐3 = ˆcT
1
ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏. This
matches the distribution in Hyb(𝑏)
4 .
We conclude that the distinguishing advantage ofB in the matrix-commitment security game is at least𝜀, which
contradicts the security of the matrix commitment scheme (Fact 3.5). □
Claim 4.20. Suppose𝑛≥ 𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,𝜎≥ log𝑚, and𝑞 is prime. Then, for all adversaries A and all
𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the distributions Hyb(𝑏)
4 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
5 (A) are statistically indistinguishable.
Proof. The only difference between the two experiments is the distribution of the pair(p, ˆ𝑐3):
• In Hyb(𝑏)
4 , the challenger sets p = Bˆd2 and ˆ𝑐3 = ˆcT
1
ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏, where ˆd2
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚.
• In Hyb(𝑏)
5 , the challenger samples p r← Z𝑛
𝑞 and ˆ𝑐3
r← Z𝑞.
Next, no other quantity in Hyb(𝑏)
4 depends on the vector ˆd2. The claim then follows by two invocations of the leftover
hash lemma:
• In Hyb(𝑏)
4 , the challenger samples ˆc1
r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 (which is independent of all other parameters). By Lemma 3.4, the
distributions 
W, R, ˆc1, Bˆd2, ˆcT
1 ˆd2

and

W, R, ˆc1, p, ˆcT
1 ˆd2

are statistically close, where p r← Z𝑛
𝑞.
• Next, by Lemma 3.1, the distributions(ˆcT
1, ˆcT
1
ˆd2) and(ˆcT
1, ˆ𝑐3) are statistically close, where ˆ𝑐3
r← Z𝑞.
By a standard hybrid argument, this means the following distributions are statistically indistinguishable:

W, R, ˆc1, Bˆd2, ˆcT
1 ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏

and (W, R, ˆc1, p, ˆ𝑐3).
The left distribution corresponds to Hyb(𝑏)
4 while the right corresponds to Hyb(𝑏)
5 . □
Completing the proof. By definition, the challenger’s behavior in Hyb(𝑏)
5 is independent of the bit 𝑏∈{ 0, 1}.
Thus, Hyb(0)
5 and Hyb(1)
5 are identical experiments. Combining Claims 4.16 to 4.20, static security now follows by
a standard hybrid argument. □
30

Parameter instantiation. We conclude by describing one way to instantiate the parameters of Construction 4.11
to satisfy the requirements of Theorems 4.12, 4.14 and 4.15. Take any constant 0 < 𝜀 < 1 and choose the lattice
parameters(𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎) and the width parameter𝜎 such that
𝑛 = 𝜆1/𝜀 ; 𝑞 = 2Θ(𝜆) ; 𝑚 = 2(𝑛+ 1)⌈ log𝑞⌉ ; e𝜎 = poly(𝜆) ; 𝜎 = poly(𝜆),
where𝑞 is prime, the constant in𝑞 = 2Θ(𝜆) is chosen large enough so that𝑞/log𝑞 > 2𝜆· poly(𝜆) (for instance, the
constant 2 is enough), and the(2𝑚2,𝜎)-decomposed LWE assumption holds with parameters(𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎). We now
affirm that this choice of parameters satisfies our requirements:
• Correctness:𝑛,𝑚,𝜎, e𝜎 = poly(𝜆) and𝑞/log𝑞 > 2𝜆· poly(𝜆), so Theorem 4.12 is satisfied.
• Succinctness:𝑛,𝑚 = poly(𝜆) and𝑞≤ 2poly(𝜆), so Theorem 4.14 is satisfied.
• Security:𝑛≥𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,𝜎≥ log𝑚,𝑞 is prime, and the(2𝑚2,𝜎)-decomposed LWE assumption with
parameters(𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎) holds. Then, the matrix commitment scheme from Fact 3.5 is secure and Theorem 4.15
is satisfied.
This instantiation relies on the polynomial hardness of the decomposed LWE assumption with a sub-exponential
modulus-to-noise ratio𝑞/e𝜎 = 2Θ(𝜆) = 2𝑂(𝑛𝜀). We summarize this instantiation with the following corollary:
Corollary 4.21 (Incremental DBE from Decomposed LWE). Assuming the polynomial hardness of the decomposed
LWE assumption (Assumption 3.3) with a sub-exponential modulus-to-noise ratio, Construction 4.11 is a statically
secure incremental distributed broadcast encryption scheme.
5 Updatable Distributed Broadcast Encryption
Our notion of updatable distributed broadcast encryption extends incremental distributed broadcast encryption
by additionally providing forward secrecy. An updatable DBE scheme consists of a tuple of efficient algorithms
ΠUpdDBE =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc, Dec, UpdPK, UpdSK). The key distinction from an incremental DBE
scheme is a key-rotation mechanism using the algorithms UpdPK and UpdSK. We begin with a brief overview of
how these algorithms map to the group messaging setting.
• Setup, key generation, membership updates, encryption, and decryption. These algorithms are identical
in structure to those of an incremental distributed broadcast encryption scheme. Each group member maintains
a copy of the aggregated public encryption key apk and their individual aggregated secret key ask𝑖. As in
an incremental distributed broadcast encryption scheme, group members update the public key and their
aggregated secret key using IncPK and IncSK when users join or leave the group. As before, to send a message
𝑚 to the current set of users, the sender runs the encryption algorithm Enc using the current aggregated public
key apk and produces a ciphertext ct. Upon receiving ct, each recipient𝑖 runs the decryption algorithm Dec
with their aggregated secret key ask𝑖.
• Key rotation and forward secrecy. An important security requirement in secure group messaging is forward
secrecy. Namely, a future compromise of one or more users should not jeopardize confidentiality of past
messages. To ensure this, we introduce an explicit key rotation system, where senders also include an encrypted
“update” message whenever they send a message to the group. Each group member in turn refreshes their
public and secret keys using the encrypted update.
More formally, to prepare an encrypted update message, the sender (in the group) runs the UpdPK algorithm
with the current aggregated public key and the current set of group members. This algorithm outputs an
encrypted update ctref, a new group public key apk′, and the updated public keys associated with each group
member. Upon receiving ctref, each recipient𝑖 runs the UpdSK algorithm with their current aggregated secret
key ask𝑖, their public and secret keys pk𝑖, sk𝑖, and the current set of member public keys. The UpdSK algorithm
outputs a refreshed aggregated secret key ask′
𝑖 and secret key sk′
𝑖, together with the updated set of member
31

public keys (which contains the user’s updated individual public key pk′
𝑖, consistent with the updated group
public key apk′). In the group messaging application, after updating their secret key from ask𝑖 to ask′
𝑖, each
decrypter then erases their previous secret key ask𝑖. If a refresh ciphertext is sent along with every normal
ciphertext, then each user only ever uses their aggregated decryption key to decrypt a single message. This en-
sures forward secrecy. Formally, we capture this by defining an “updatable” security property on the updatable
distributed broadcast encryption scheme.
We now give the formal syntax and security requirements.
Definition 5.1 (Updatable Distributed Broadcast Encryption). An updatable distributed broadcast encryption scheme
is a tuple of efficient algorithms ΠUpdDBE =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc, Dec, UpdPK, UpdSK) with the follow-
ing syntax:
• Setup(1𝜆)→ pp: On input the security parameter𝜆, the setup algorithm outputs a set of public parameters pp.
• KeyGen(pp,𝑖)→( pk𝑖, sk𝑖): On input the public parameters pp and an index 𝑖∈[ 2𝜆], the key-generation
algorithm outputs a public key pk𝑖 and a secret key sk𝑖.
• IncPK(pp, apk,(𝑖, pk𝑖), op)→ apk′: On input the public parameters pp, an aggregated public key apk, a public
key pk𝑖 (with index𝑖), and an operation op∈{ Add, Remove}, the algorithm computes a new aggregated public
key. This algorithm is deterministic.
• IncSK(pp, ask𝑖∗,(𝑖, pk𝑖), op)→ ask′
𝑖∗: On input the public parameters pp, an aggregated secret key for the cur-
rent set, a new public key, and an operation op∈{ Add, Remove}, the algorithm computes the new aggregated
secret key. This algorithm is deterministic.
• Enc(pp, apk,𝜇)→ ct: On input the public parameterspp, an aggregated public keyapk and a message𝜇∈{ 0, 1},
the encryption algorithm outputs a ciphertext ct.
• Dec(pp, ask𝑖, ct)→ 𝜇: On input the public parameters pp, an aggregated secret key ask𝑖 and a ciphertext ct,
the decryption algorithm outputs a message𝜇∈{ 0, 1}.
• UpdPK(pp, apk,𝑆)→( ctref, apk′,𝑆′): On input the public parameters pp, an aggregated public key apk, the
current set of group members𝑆 represented as a mapping from the index𝑗 of a group member to their public
key pk𝑗, this algorithm outputs a refresh ciphertext ctref, an updated aggregated public key apk′, and an
updated mapping𝑆′ containing the refreshed public keys of the group members.
• UpdSK(pp, ask𝑖, ctref,𝑆, pk𝑖, sk𝑖)→( ask′
𝑖, pk′
𝑖, sk′
𝑖,𝑆′): On input the public parameterspp, an aggregated secret
key ask𝑖, a refresh ciphertext ctref, the current set of group members 𝑆 represented as a mapping from the
index 𝑗 of a group member to their public key pk𝑗, and public, secret keys pk𝑖, sk𝑖 for user𝑖, this algorithm
outputs an updated aggregated secret key ask′
𝑖, updated public, secret keys pk′
𝑖, sk′
𝑖, and an updated mapping𝑆′.
Correctness. The correctness requirement for an updatable DBE scheme states that for any sequence of add,
remove, and refresh operations, whenever a user encrypts a message to the current group, all users currently in
the group can decrypt it using their respective aggregated secret keys. To formally define correctness (similar to
Section 4), we define two helper subroutines: (1) an UpdateAPK subroutine that tracks the current aggregated public
key associated with the group; and (2) an UpdateASK algorithm that tracks the aggregated secret key associated with
a particular user. We use these subroutines to streamline our correctness and security definitions. The routines are
the analogs of those defined in Definitions 4.2 and 4.3, except extended to support the additional refresh operation.
We define the syntax formally below:
Definition 5.2 (UpdateAPK Subroutine for Updatable DBE). Let ΠUpdDBE =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc, Dec,
UpdPK, UpdSK) be an updatable distributed broadcast encryption scheme. We define the UpdateAPK subroutine as
follows:
32

UpdateAPK(pp, apk,(𝑖, pk𝑖), op,𝑆)
Inputs: Public parameters pp, an aggregated public key apk, index 𝑖, a public key pk𝑖, an operation
op∈{Add, Remove, Refresh}, and a mapping𝑆 that maps an index 𝑗 (of a group member) to a public key pk𝑗 .
Outputs: Updated aggregated public key apk, updated mapping𝑆, and in the case of a refresh operation, a pair(ctref,𝜌)
consisting of a refresh ciphertext and the randomness𝜌 used to generate it.
Computation:
• If op = Add and𝑖 ∉𝑆, compute apk = IncPK(pp, apk,(𝑖, pk𝑖), Add). Set𝑆[𝑖] = pk𝑖 and return(apk,𝑆,⊥).
• If op = Remove and𝑖 ∈ 𝑆, compute apk = IncPK(pp, apk,(𝑖,𝑆[𝑖]), Remove). Remove 𝑖 from𝑆 and return
(apk,𝑆,⊥).
• If op = Refresh, then compute(ctref, apk,𝑆)← UpdPK(pp, apk,𝑆 ;𝜌) where𝜌 is the random coins used by the
algorithm. Return(apk,𝑆,(ctref,𝜌)).
• In all other cases, return(apk,𝑆,⊥).
Next, we define the corresponding UpdateASK subroutine that keeps track of a user’s aggregate secret key as users
join, leave, or are refreshed in the group. The UpdateASK subroutine takes the following inputs:
• the public parameters pp,
• the current set of group members𝑆, represented as a mapping from the index 𝑗 of a group member to their
public key pk𝑗,
• the public key pk𝑖∗, the secret key sk𝑖∗, and the aggregated secret key ask𝑖∗ for the user performing the update
(i.e., user𝑖∗),
• the public key pk𝑖 of the user joining/leaving the group,
• auxiliary refresh information consisting of a refresh ciphertext ctref, and
• the description of the operation op (i.e., specifying whether user𝑖 is joining the group, leaving the group, or
refreshing the group public keys).
The UpdateASK subroutine then outputs the updated aggregated secret keyask𝑖∗, the updated mapping𝑆𝑖∗ maintained
by user𝑖∗, the updated public key pk𝑖∗, and the updated secret key sk𝑖∗ associated with user𝑖∗. In the correctness
and security definitions, the challenger uses UpdateASK to track the state of each user’s keys. We now describe the
formal syntax and behavior and then give our formal correctness definition:
Definition 5.3 (UpdateASK Subroutine for Updatable DBE). Let ΠUpdDBE =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc, Dec,
UpdPK, UpdSK) be an updatable distributed broadcast encryption scheme. We define the UpdateASK subroutine as
follows:
33

UpdateASK pp,(𝑖∗, pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗, ask𝑖∗),(𝑖, pk𝑖), ctref, op,𝑆 
Inputs: Public parameters pp, a public key pk𝑖∗, secret key sk𝑖∗, and aggregated secret key ask𝑖∗ for user𝑖∗, a public
key pk𝑖 for user𝑖, auxiliary refresh information ctref, an operation op∈{Add, Remove, Refresh}, and a mapping𝑆 that
maps an index 𝑗 (of a group member) to a public key pk𝑗 .
Outputs: Updated aggregated secret key ask𝑖∗, updated local mapping𝑆𝑖∗, updated public key pk𝑖∗, and updated secret
key sk𝑖∗.
Computation: First, initialize𝑆𝑖∗ =𝑆. Then if op = Add or op = Remove, perform the following updates:
• If op = Add and𝑖 ∉𝑆, set𝑆𝑖∗[𝑖] = pk𝑖.
• If op = Remove and𝑖∈𝑆, remove𝑖 from𝑆𝑖∗.
Next, perform the following updates:
• If op = Add, 𝑖 ∉ 𝑆, and 𝑖∗ = 𝑖, initialize ask𝑖∗ = sk𝑖∗, and for each 𝑗 ∈ 𝑆 in lexicographic order, run
ask𝑖∗ = IncSK(pp, ask𝑖∗,(𝑗,𝑆[𝑗]), Add).
• If op = Add,𝑖 ∉𝑆, and𝑖∗∈𝑆, set ask𝑖∗ = IncSK(pp, ask𝑖∗,(𝑖, pk𝑖), Add).
• If op = Remove,𝑖∈𝑆, and𝑖∗ =𝑖, set ask𝑖∗ =⊥.
• If op = Remove,𝑖∈𝑆,𝑖∗∈𝑆, and𝑖∗ ≠𝑖, set ask𝑖∗ = IncSK(pp, ask𝑖∗,(𝑖,𝑆[𝑖]), Remove).
• If op = Refresh and𝑖∗∈𝑆, compute(ask𝑖∗, pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗,𝑆𝑖∗)← UpdSK(pp, ask𝑖∗, ctref,𝑆, pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗).
• In all other cases, ask𝑖∗, pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗ are unchanged.
Return(ask𝑖∗,𝑆𝑖∗, pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗).
Definition 5.4 (Correctness). Let ΠUpdDBE =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc, Dec, UpdPK, UpdSK) be an updat-
able distributed broadcast encryption scheme. Let𝜆∈ N be a security parameter,𝑄∈ N be the number of queries,pp be
a set of public parameters, and{( ind𝑗, pk𝑗, op𝑗)}𝑗∈[𝑄] be a sequence of queries where op𝑗∈{Add, Remove, Refresh}
and where the public key pk𝑗 is used only when op𝑗 = Add; we set pk𝑗 =⊥ whenever op𝑗∈{Remove, Refresh}.
For an index𝑖∗∈[ 2𝜆] and a public/secret key-pair(pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗), we define the tuple(apk𝑄, ask𝑖∗,𝑄, pk𝑖∗,𝑄, sk𝑖∗,𝑄,𝑆𝑄)
associated with this sequence as follows:
• Initialize apk0 =⊥, ask𝑖∗,0 =⊥, pk𝑖∗,0 = pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗,0 = sk𝑖∗,𝑆0 =∅, and𝑆𝑖∗,0 =∅.
• For each 𝑗∈[ 𝑄], compute
(apk𝑗,𝑆𝑗,(ctref𝑗,𝜌 𝑗)) = UpdateAPK(pp, apk𝑗−1,(ind𝑗, pk𝑗), op𝑗,𝑆𝑗−1)
(ask𝑖∗,𝑗,𝑆𝑖∗,𝑗, pk𝑖∗,𝑗, sk𝑖∗,𝑗) = UpdateASK(pp,(𝑖∗, pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1, sk𝑖∗,𝑗−1, ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1),(ind𝑗, pk𝑗), ctref𝑗, op𝑗,𝑆𝑗−1).
• Output(apk𝑄, ask𝑖∗,𝑄, pk𝑖∗,𝑄, sk𝑖∗,𝑄,𝑆𝑄).
We say ΠUpdDBE is correct if for all security parameters𝜆∈ N, all pp in the support of Setup(1𝜆), all𝑄≤ 2𝜆, all indices
𝑖∗∈[ 2𝜆], all(pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗) in the support of KeyGen(pp,𝑖∗), all sequences{( ind𝑗, pk𝑗, op𝑗)}𝑗∈[𝑄] where𝑆𝑄[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,𝑄,
and all messages𝜇∈{ 0, 1}, we have the following two properties:
• Mapping consistency: For all 𝑗∈[ 𝑄] such that𝑖∗∈𝑆𝑗, we have𝑆𝑖∗,𝑗 =𝑆𝑗. That is, the mapping maintained
by user𝑖∗ through UpdateASK agrees with the mapping maintained by UpdateAPK.
• Decryption correctness: It holds that
Pr[Dec(pp, ask𝑖∗,𝑄, ct) =𝜇 : ct← Enc(pp, apk𝑄,𝜇)] = 1,
where(apk𝑄, ask𝑖∗,𝑄, pk𝑖∗,𝑄, sk𝑖∗,𝑄,𝑆𝑄) is the tuple associated with the sequence{( ind𝑗, pk𝑗, op𝑗)}𝑗∈[𝑄].
Remark 5.5 (Mapping Consistency and the Correctness Analysis). In a refresh operation, the UpdPK algorithm
updates the public keys of all the users in the set. On the other hand, when users receive an update, each user locally
runs UpdSK to update their individual public (and secret) key. The mapping consistency property ensures that these
two operations produce the same view.
34

Succinctness. Our succinctness requirement stipulates that the size of the aggregate public key apk, the aggregate
secret key ask, and the individual public and secret keys output by the IncPK, IncSK, UpdPK, and UpdSK algorithms
are short (i.e., have size that is independent of the size of the group).
Definition 5.6 (Succinctness). There exists a universal polynomial poly(·) such that for all security parameters
𝜆 ∈ N, all public parameters pp in the support of Setup(1𝜆), the size of the aggregated public key apk output
by IncPK(pp,·,·,·) and UpdPK(pp,·,·), the size of the aggregated secret key ask output by IncSK(pp,·,·,·) and
UpdSK(pp,·,·,·,·,·), the size of the public and secret keys pk, sk output by UpdSK(pp,·,·,·,·,·), and the size of each
public key pk𝑗 in the mapping𝑆′ output by UpdPK(pp,·,·) and UpdSK(pp,·,·,·,·,·) are bounded by poly(𝜆). We also
require that the size of the refresh ciphertext output by UpdPK(pp,·,·) be poly(𝜆).
Remark 5.7 (Efficiency of Refresh Operations). The refresh algorithms UpdPK and UpdSK take the mapping𝑆 as an
explicit input, and as such, their running times are allowed to scale with the size of the group|𝑆|. The only efficiency
requirement we impose (see Definition 5.6) is that the size of the refresh ciphertext output by UpdPK be independent
of the size of the group. In the context of group messaging (see Section 6), this gives a scheme with forward secrecy
where the refresh operation takes time that is polynomial in the size of the group, but where communication is always
sublinear in the size of the group (in fact, independent of the size of the group). An important open problem is to obtain
a scheme where the refresh operation requires sublinear running time. An updatable distributed broadcast encryption
scheme with this property would yield a forward-secure CGKA protocol where computation and communication
costs are all sublinear in the size of the group.
We stress that the mapping𝑆′ output by UpdPK and UpdSK is local state and is computed by each party from
ctref and its local copy of𝑆. This set𝑆′ is not sent over the network. Updates only require transmitting the ciphertext
ctref, whose size is poly(𝜆) by Definition 5.6. This is what ensures sublinear communication in our group messaging
protocol (Section 6).
Updatable DBE security. We now define semantic security for updatable distributed broadcast encryption. In the
adaptive definition, an adversary may dynamically add, remove, or refresh users in the group. In the static variant, we
require the adversary to commit to its entire sequence of operations at the start of the game. We guarantee forward
security. This intuitively means that an attacker that joins the group does not learn anything about past encrypted
messages. In both static and adaptive cases, we require semantic security for any ciphertext encrypted with respect to
the group public key provided that the adversary has not corrupted any user in the group at the time of the challenge;
moreover, this holds even if we reveal the entire state of the system to the attacker after a single refresh operation.
We now give the formal definition.
Definition 5.8 (Security). Let ΠUpdDBE =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc, Dec, UpdPK, UpdSK) be an updatable
distributed broadcast encryption scheme. For a security parameter 𝜆∈ N, an adversaryA, and a challenge bit
𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, we define the updatable distributed broadcast encryption security game as follows:
• Setup phase: The challenger starts by sampling pp← Setup(1𝜆) and initializes a counter ctr = 0 and an
(initially empty) dictionary D to keep track of key-generation queries. It also initializes a mapping𝑆 =∅ that
maps the index of each member of the current broadcast set to their public key, a set𝑇 =∅ to keep track of
the counters associated with the current broadcast set, the initial aggregated public key apk =⊥, and a set
of corrupted countersC =∅.
• Pre-challenge query phase: The adversary may issue the following queries:
– Key-generation queries: On input an index𝑖∈[ 2𝜆], the challenger increments the counter ctr = ctr+ 1
and samples(pkctr, skctr)← KeyGen(pp,𝑖). It also initializes an aggregate decryption key askctr =⊥ and
adds the mapping ctr↦→( 𝑖, pkctr, skctr, askctr) to D. The challenger gives pkctr to the adversaryA.
– Corruption queries: On input a counter value𝑐∈[ ctr], the challenger looks up(𝑖, pk𝑐, sk𝑐, ask𝑐) = D[𝑐]
and returns(sk𝑐, ask𝑐). The challenger then updatesC =C∪{ 𝑐}.
– Update queries: On input an operation op∈{Add, Remove, Refresh} and, if op∈{Add, Remove}, a
counter value𝑐∈[ ctr] (if op = Refresh, no counter is required), the challenger proceeds as follows. If
35

op∈{Add, Remove}, it looks up(𝑖, pk𝑐, sk𝑐, ask𝑐) = D[𝑐], checks the following conditions, and responds
with⊥ if either holds:
∗ Associating a key with an existing index 𝑖: op = Add and𝑖∈𝑆;
∗ Removing a public key that is not in the group: op = Remove and𝑐 ∉𝑇 .
Otherwise, the challenger proceeds as follows:
∗ The challenger first computes the updated aggregated public key as follows:
· If op∈{Add, Remove}, compute(apk′,𝑆′,(ctref,𝜌)) = UpdateAPK(pp, apk,(𝑖, pk𝑐), op,𝑆).
· If op = Refresh, compute(apk′,𝑆′,(ctref,𝜌)) = UpdateAPK(pp, apk,(⊥,⊥), Refresh,𝑆).
∗ If op∈{Add, Remove}, then for each𝑡∈𝑇∪{𝑐}, the challenger looks up(𝑖𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡, ask𝑡) = D[𝑡]
and computes the updated aggregate decryption key
(ask𝑡,𝑆𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡) = UpdateASK pp,(𝑖𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡, ask𝑡),(𝑖, pk𝑐), ctref, op,𝑆 ,
using the previous mapping𝑆. The challenger checks that𝑆𝑡 =𝑆′ for each𝑡∈𝑇∪{𝑐} and updates
D[𝑡] =(𝑖𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡, ask𝑡). If the check fails, it halts the experiment and outputs 0.
∗ If op = Refresh, then for each𝑡∈𝑇 , the challenger looks up(𝑖𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡, ask𝑡) = D[𝑡] and computes
the updated aggregate decryption key
(ask𝑡,𝑆𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡) = UpdateASK pp,(𝑖𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡, ask𝑡),(⊥,⊥), ctref, op,𝑆 ,
using the previous mapping 𝑆. The challenger checks that 𝑆𝑡 = 𝑆′ for each 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 and updates
D[𝑡] =(𝑖𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡, ask𝑡). If the check fails, it halts the experiment and outputs 0.
∗ The challenger then updates apk = apk′ and𝑆 =𝑆′.
∗ If op = Add, then the challenger updates𝑇 =𝑇∪{𝑐}. If op = Remove, then it updates𝑇 =𝑇\{𝑐}.
The challenger responds with the updated aggregate public keyapk, auxiliary update information(ctref,𝜌)
as well as the updated aggregate decryption key, public/secret key pair ask𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡 for all corrupted
users𝑡∈𝑇∩C .
• Challenge phase: When the adversary is finished making queries and proceeds to the challenge phase, the
challenger starts by checking if𝑇 =∅ or if𝑇∩C ≠∅. In either case, the challenger halts the experiment
with output 0. Otherwise, the challenger responds with the challenge ciphertext ct∗← Enc(pp, apk,𝑏). The
challenger also sets𝑇∗ =𝑇 to remember the set of counters associated with the challenge ciphertext.
• Refresh phase: The challenger now performs a refresh. Specifically, the challenger first computes
(apk′,𝑆′,(ctref,𝜌)) = UpdateAPK(pp, apk,(⊥,⊥), Refresh,𝑆).
Then, for each𝑡∈𝑇 , update
(ask𝑡,𝑆𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡)← UpdateASK(pp,(𝑖𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡, ask𝑡),(⊥,⊥), ctref, Refresh,𝑆).
The challenger checks that 𝑆𝑡 = 𝑆′ for each 𝑡 ∈ 𝑇 and then it updates D[𝑡] =(𝑖𝑡, pk𝑡, sk𝑡, ask𝑡), then sets
apk = apk′ and𝑆 =𝑆′. If the check fails, it halts the experiment and outputs 0. The challenger now responds
to the adversary with the updated aggregate public key apk and the auxiliary update information ctref.
Note that unlike the query phase, the challenger does not reveal the randomness 𝜌 used to compute the
ciphertext ctref in the refresh phase.
• Post-challenge query phase: Same as the pre-challenge query phase above, except the adversary is no longer
allowed to make a corruption query on any counter𝑐∈𝑇∗.
• Reveal phase: The challenger reveals the aggregated public key apk and the dictionary D to the adversary.
Namely, for all𝑐≤ ctr, the challenger outputs D[𝑐] =(𝑖, pk𝑐, sk𝑐, ask𝑐) to the adversary.
36

• Output phase: At the end of the experiment, the adversary outputs a bit𝑏′∈{ 0, 1}, which is the output of
the experiment.
We say an updatable DBE scheme is secure if for all efficient adversariesA, there exists a negligible function negl(·)
such that for all𝜆∈ N,  Pr[𝑏′ = 1 :𝑏 = 0]− Pr[𝑏′ = 1 :𝑏 = 1]
≤ negl(𝜆),
where𝑏′∈{ 0, 1} is the output of an execution of the above security experiment.
Definition 5.9 (Static Security). The static security game for an updatable DBE scheme ΠUpdDBE is identical to the
security game from Definition 5.8, except the adversary commits to all of its pre-challenge queries (i.e., key-generation
queries, corruption queries, and update queries) at the beginning of the experiment. The post-challenge query phase is
unchanged. We say ΠUpdDBE satisfies static security if for all efficient adversariesA, there exists a negligible function
negl(·) such that for all𝜆∈ N,
 Pr[𝑏′ = 1 :𝑏 = 0]− Pr[𝑏′ = 1 :𝑏 = 1]
≤ negl(𝜆),
where𝑏′∈{ 0, 1} is the output of an execution of the static security experiment.
5.1 Construction of Updatable Distributed Broadcast Encryption
Our construction is a modification of the construction from Section 4.1 with two additional algorithms UpdPK and
UpdSK. One crucial difference in the construction is that the secret key vector r𝑖 is sampled uniformly from the range
{0,..., 𝔅− 1} ˆ𝑚 (where the bound 𝔅 is set in the parameter section) instead of being sampled from{0, 1} ˆ𝑚, and our
construction uses a hash function 𝐻 :{0, 1}𝜆×{ 0, 1}𝜆→{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚 that is modeled as a random oracle [BR93]. We
color the primary changes from Section 4 in green.
Construction 5.10 (Updatable Distributed Broadcast Encryption). Let𝜆 be a security parameter and(𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎)
be LWE parameters (which are functions of𝜆). Let𝜎 be a Gaussian width parameter and 𝔅 be a bound parameter.
Let ˆ𝑚 = 4𝑚5 and𝜉 =⌊𝑞/2⌋. We construct an updatable distributed broadcast encryption scheme ΠUpdDBE =(Setup,
KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc, Dec, UpdPK, UpdSK) as follows:
• Setup(1𝜆): On input the security parameter𝜆, the setup algorithm samples the matrix commitment parameters
ppcom =(W, R, B)← Setupcom(1𝜆), together with A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 and p r← Z𝑛
𝑞. It outputs pp =(ppcom, A, p).
• KeyGen(pp,𝑖): On input the public parameters pp =(ppcom, A, p) where ppcom =(W, R, B) and an index
𝑖∈[ 2𝜆], the key-generation algorithm samples r𝑖
r←{ 0,..., 𝔅− 1} ˆ𝑚 and computes the verification vector
v𝑖 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖). It then defines the public key t𝑖 B Br𝑖+ p− Av𝑖 ∈ Z𝑛
𝑞 and the initial local opening
ez𝑖 B Open(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖,𝑖), where u𝑖 is the𝑖th standard basis vector. It outputs the public key pk𝑖 = t𝑖 and
the secret key sk𝑖 =(𝑖, r𝑖,ez𝑖).
• IncPK(pp, apk,(𝑖, pk𝑖), op): On input the public parameters pp = (ppcom, A, p), an aggregate public key
apk = eC∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 (where we interpret apk =⊥ to be the all-zeroes matrix), a public key pk𝑖 = t𝑖 for user𝑖, and
an operation op∈{ Add, Remove}, the public-update algorithm computes the commitment
C(𝑖) = Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖). (5.1)
If op = Add, it outputs apk′ = eC+ C(𝑖). If op = Remove, it outputs apk′ = eC− C(𝑖).
• IncSK(pp, ask𝑖∗,(𝑖, pk𝑖), op): On input the public parameters pp = (ppcom, A, p), an aggregate secret key
ask𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗), a public key pk𝑖 = t𝑖 for user𝑖, and an operation op∈{ Add, Remove}, the private-update
algorithm proceeds as follows:
– If𝑖∗ =𝑖, it returns ask𝑖∗ unchanged. Otherwise, it computes the local opening
z(𝑖,𝑖∗) = Open(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖,𝑖∗). (5.2)
37

– If op = Add, it outputs ask′
𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗+ z(𝑖,𝑖∗)).
– If op = Remove, it outputs ask′
𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗− z(𝑖,𝑖∗)).
• Enc(pp, apk,𝜇): On input the public parameters pp =(ppcom, A, p) where ppcom =(W, R, B), an aggregate
public key apk = eC, and a message𝜇∈{ 0, 1}, the encryption algorithm samples
s r← Z𝑛
𝑞, e←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎, D1
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚, d2
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚.
If∥e∥≥
√
𝜆e𝜎, it resets e = 0 ˆ𝑚. It then outputs the ciphertext ct =(c1, c2,𝑐 3) where
cT
1 = sTB+ eT, cT
2 = sT(A+ eC)+ eTD1, 𝑐 3 = sTp+ eTd2+𝜉·𝜇.
• Dec(pp, ask𝑖∗, ct): On input the public parameterspp =(ppcom, A, p), an aggregate secret keyask𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗),
and a ciphertext ct =(c1, c2,𝑐 3), the decryption algorithm computes the verification vector v𝑖∗ = Ver(ppcom,𝑖∗)
and outputs
𝜇′ =⌊𝑐3+ cT
1(r𝑖∗−ez𝑖∗)− cT
2v𝑖∗⌉2.
• UpdPK(pp, apk,𝑆): On input the public parameters pp =(ppcom, A, p), an aggregate public key apk = eC, and a
mapping𝑆 from the index of each group member to their public key, the algorithm samples𝜹 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and for
all𝑖∈𝑆, sets 𝚫𝑖 =𝐻(𝜹,𝑖). For all𝑗∈[ 𝜆], it computesctref(𝑗)← Enc(pp, apk,𝛿𝑗) where𝛿𝑗 is the𝑗 th component
of vector𝜹. Let ctref =  ctref(1),..., ctref(𝜆)
. Then, for each𝑖∈𝑆, lett𝑖 =𝑆[𝑖] and set𝑆′[𝑖] = t𝑖+B𝚫𝑖. Compute
apk′ =
∑︁
𝑖∈𝑆
Com  ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗( t𝑖+ B𝚫𝑖)
and output(ctref, apk′,𝑆′).
• UpdSK(pp, ask𝑖∗, ctref,𝑆, pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗): On input the public parameters pp =(ppcom, A, p), an aggregate secret key
ask𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗), a ciphertext ctref =  ctref(1),..., ctref(𝜆)
 where ctref(𝑗) =  c1,(𝑗), c2,(𝑗),𝑐 3,(𝑗)
, a mapping
𝑆 of user indices to public keys, and a public key pk𝑖∗ = t𝑖∗ together with a secret key sk𝑖∗ =  𝑖∗, r𝑖∗, z(𝑖∗,𝑖∗)
 for
user𝑖∗, the private-refresh algorithm proceeds as follows. Compute the verification vector v𝑖∗ = Ver(ppcom,𝑖∗)
and, for each 𝑗∈[ 𝜆],
𝛿𝑗 =⌊𝑐3,(𝑗)+ cT
1,(𝑗)(r𝑖∗−ez𝑖∗)− cT
2,(𝑗)v𝑖∗⌉2,
and set 𝜹 =(𝛿1,...,𝛿 𝜆)∈{ 0, 1}𝜆. For each 𝑖∈ 𝑆, write t𝑖 = 𝑆[𝑖] (in particular t𝑖∗ = 𝑆[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗), compute
𝚫𝑖 =𝐻(𝜹,𝑖), and set
t′
𝑖 B t𝑖+ B𝚫𝑖 and 𝑆′[𝑖] B t′
𝑖.
Output(ask′
𝑖∗, pk′
𝑖∗, sk′
𝑖∗,𝑆′), where
pk′
𝑖∗ = t′
𝑖∗,
ask′
𝑖∗ =
 
𝑖∗, r𝑖∗+ 𝚫𝑖∗,
∑︁
𝑖∈𝑆
Open  ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t′
𝑖, 𝑖∗
!
,
sk′
𝑖∗ =  𝑖∗, r𝑖∗+ 𝚫𝑖∗, Open  ppcom, uT
𝑖∗⊗ t′
𝑖∗, 𝑖∗ .
Theorem 5.11 (Correctness). Suppose𝑛,𝑚,𝜎, e𝜎 = poly(𝜆), 𝔅≤ 2𝜆 and𝑞/log𝑞 > 2𝜆· poly(𝜆) where poly(𝜆) is the
specific polynomial produced in the noise analysis. Then, Construction 5.10 is correct.
Proof. Fix a security parameter𝜆, a set of public parameters pp =(ppcom, A, p) in the support of Setup(1𝜆), an index
𝑖∗∈[ 2𝜆], a key-pair(pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗) in the support of KeyGen(pp,𝑖∗), and a sequence of queries{( ind𝑗, pk𝑗, op𝑗)}𝑗∈[𝑄]
where𝑄≤ 2𝜆. For𝑗∈{ 0, 1,...,𝑄 }, let(apk𝑗, ask𝑖∗,𝑗, pk𝑖∗,𝑗, sk𝑖∗,𝑗,𝑆𝑗) be the values computed in Definition 5.4. Our goal
is to show that if𝑆𝑄[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,𝑄, then mapping consistency and decryption correctness hold. Formally, for all𝑗∈[ 𝑄]
such that𝑖∗∈𝑆𝑗, we have𝑆𝑖∗,𝑗 =𝑆𝑗 and for all messages𝜇∈{ 0, 1}, we have Dec(pp, ask𝑖∗,𝑄, ct) =𝜇 with probability 1,
where ct← Enc(pp, apk𝑄,𝜇). From Fact 3.5, we haveppcom =(W, R, B), where∥R∥≤ 𝜎
√
𝜆. Moreover, for all matrices
M∈ Z𝑛×𝐿
𝑞 with𝐿≤ 2𝜆 and all indices𝑖∈[ 2𝜆], the vectors v𝑖 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖) and z𝑖 = Open(ppcom, M,𝑖) satisfy
∥v𝑖∥≤ 𝑂 𝑚4𝜎 log𝑞·𝜆1/2 and ∥z𝑖∥≤ 𝑂 𝑚7𝜎 log𝑞·𝜆3/2. (5.3)
38

Induction invariant. For all 𝑗∈{ 0, 1,...,𝑄 }, and for every user 𝑗′∈ 𝑆𝑗, let the public key of user with index
𝑗′ after operation 𝑗 be denoted by t𝑗′,𝑗 = 𝑆𝑗[𝑗′]∈ Z𝑛
𝑞. For all 𝑗∈{ 0, 1,...,𝑄 }, and for any user 𝑖∗∈ 𝑆𝑗 we prove
correctness by proving an induction invariant on the tuple(apk𝑗, ask𝑖∗,𝑗, pk𝑖∗,𝑗, sk𝑖∗,𝑗,𝑆𝑗), together with the mapping
𝑆𝑖∗,𝑗 computed by user𝑖∗ via UpdateASK (Definition 5.3):
• Mapping consistency: if𝑖∗∈𝑆𝑗, then𝑆𝑖∗,𝑗 =𝑆𝑗. In particular, for every index 𝑗′∈𝑆𝑗,𝑆𝑖∗,𝑗[𝑗′] =𝑆𝑗[𝑗′] = t𝑗′,𝑗 .
• Aggregated public key: For any user 𝑗′∈ 𝑆𝑗, let C(𝑗′) be the commitment associated with(𝑗′, t𝑗′,𝑗) from
Eq. (5.1). We have apk𝑗 = ˝
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗 C(𝑗′), where we interpret apk𝑗 =⊥ as the all-zeroes matrix.
• Aggregated secret key: Let z(𝑗′,𝑖∗) be the local opening associated with(𝑗′, t𝑗′,𝑗) from Eq. (5.2). If𝑆𝑗[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,𝑗 ,
then ask𝑖∗,𝑗 =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,𝑗,ez𝑖∗,𝑗) whereez𝑖∗,𝑗 = ˝
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗 z(𝑗′,𝑖∗).
• Public/secret key: if𝑆𝑗[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,𝑗 , then sk𝑖∗,𝑗 =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,𝑗, z(𝑖∗,𝑖∗)) where r𝑖∗,𝑗 ∈{0,..., 𝔅+𝑗− 1} ˆ𝑚 matches
the stored vector in ask𝑖∗,𝑗 . Additionally, z(𝑖∗,𝑖∗) satisfies Eq. (5.2) and pk𝑖∗,𝑗 = t𝑖∗,𝑗 = Br𝑖∗,𝑗+ p− Av𝑖∗ where
pp =(ppcom, A, p), v𝑖∗ = Ver(ppcom,𝑖∗).
Before we prove the invariant, we prove the following important claim:
Claim 5.12. Fix 𝑗∈[ 𝑄] and suppose the induction invariant holds for(apk𝑗−1, ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1, pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1, sk𝑖∗,𝑗−1,𝑆𝑗−1) and
that𝑖∗∈𝑆𝑗−1 with𝑆𝑗−1[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1 (so that the aggregated secret key and public/secret key invariants apply to
user𝑖∗). Let(ctref, apk𝑗,𝑆𝑗)← UpdPK(pp, apk𝑗−1,𝑆𝑗−1) and let 𝜹∈{ 0, 1}𝜆 be the seed sampled inside UpdPK. Then
the vector 𝜹′ recovered by UpdSK(pp, ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1, ctref,𝑆𝑗−1, pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1, sk𝑖∗,𝑗−1) satisfies 𝜹′ = 𝜹.
Proof. Let the public key for user with index 𝑗′ after operation 𝑗− 1 be denoted by t𝑗′,𝑗−1 = 𝑆𝑗−1[𝑗′], and write
eC = apk𝑗−1, ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1 =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,𝑗−1,ez𝑖∗,𝑗−1) and sk𝑖∗,𝑗−1 =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,𝑗−1, z(𝑖∗,𝑖∗)). Since 𝑆𝑗−1[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1, the induction
invariant gives
eC =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
C(𝑗′) and ez𝑖∗,𝑗−1 =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗).
From Eqs. (5.1) and (5.2), we have that C(𝑗′) = Com(ppcom, uT
𝑗′⊗ t𝑗′,𝑗−1) and z(𝑗′,𝑖∗) = Open(ppcom, uT
𝑗′⊗ t𝑗′,𝑗−1,𝑖∗).
By Claim 4.10, this means
eCv𝑖∗ =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
C(𝑗′)· v𝑖∗ = t𝑖∗,𝑗−1− B
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗) = t𝑖∗,𝑗−1− Bez𝑖∗,𝑗−1. (5.4)
Moreover, by Eq. (5.3),
∥ez𝑖∗,𝑗−1∥≤| 𝑆𝑗−1|· 𝑂 𝑚7𝜎 log𝑞·𝜆3/2. (5.5)
Fix an indexℓ∈[ 𝜆] and let𝛿ℓ∈{ 0, 1} be theℓ th coordinate of 𝜹. Let ctref(ℓ) =(c1,(ℓ), c2,(ℓ),𝑐 3,(ℓ)) be the corresponding
encryption of𝛿ℓ. By construction of ctref in Construction 5.10, we can write
cT
1,(ℓ) = sTB+ eT, cT
2,(ℓ) = sT(A+ eC)+ eTD1, 𝑐 3,(ℓ) = sTp+ eTd2+𝜉·𝛿ℓ.
The UpdSK algorithm computes
𝛿′
ℓ =⌊𝑐3,(ℓ)+ cT
1,(ℓ)(r𝑖∗,𝑗−1−ez𝑖∗,𝑗−1)− cT
2,(ℓ)v𝑖∗⌉2.
By the invariant condition, p+ Br𝑖∗,𝑗−1− Av𝑖∗ = t𝑖∗,𝑗−1, and by Eq. (5.4), eCv𝑖∗ = t𝑖∗,𝑗−1− Bez𝑖∗,𝑗−1, so we have
𝛿′
ℓ =⌊𝜉𝛿 ℓ+ eTd2+ eTr𝑖∗,𝑗−1− eTD1v𝑖∗− eTez𝑖∗,𝑗−1
|                                         {z                                         }
𝜈
⌉2.
It remains to bound|𝜈|. By construction of ctref,∥e∥≤ 𝜆1/2e𝜎. In addition, d2∈{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚, D1∈{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚 and by the
invariant, the norm bound∥r𝑖∗,𝑗−1∥≤ 𝔅+𝑗− 2 holds. Thus, by Eq. (5.3) and Eq. (5.5) and the bound𝔅≤ 2𝜆, this gives
|𝜈|≤ ˆ𝑚𝜆 1/2e𝜎

1+( 𝔅+𝑗− 2)+ 𝑂 𝑚5𝜎 log𝑞·𝜆1/2+|𝑆𝑗−1|· 𝑂 𝑚7𝜎 log𝑞·𝜆3/2
≤𝑂 2𝜆· ˆ𝑚𝑚7𝜎e𝜎·𝜆2 log𝑞,
39

where the second inequality uses|𝑆𝑗−1|≥ 1 (which holds since𝑖∗∈𝑆𝑗−1),|𝑆𝑗−1|≤( 𝑗− 1)≤ 2𝜆, and 𝔅+𝑗− 2≤ 2𝜆+1.
We stress that in contrast to Theorem 4.12, the secret-key range 𝔅 (and not just the group size|𝑆𝑗−1|) now feeds into
the noise bound. Finally, since𝑛,𝑚,𝜎, e𝜎 = poly(𝜆), we conclude that
|𝜈|≤ 2𝜆· poly(𝜆)· log𝑞.
Setting𝑞/log𝑞 > 4· 2𝜆· poly(𝜆) means|𝜈| <𝑞/4. Since𝜉 =⌊𝑞/2⌋, the rounding operation recovers𝛿′
ℓ =𝛿ℓ. As this
holds for everyℓ∈[ 𝜆], we conclude that 𝜹′ = 𝜹. □
Claim 5.13. For all 𝑗∈{ 0, 1,...,𝑄 }, the induction invariant holds.
Proof. We proceed by induction on𝑗. Claim 5.12 is stated conditionally on the invariant at step 𝑗− 1; together with
this claim it forms a single induction, with Claim 5.12 supplying the Refresh case below.
Base case. For the base case where𝑗 = 0, we have apk0 =⊥, ask𝑖∗,0 =⊥,𝑆0 =∅, and𝑆𝑖∗,0 =∅. All of the properties
hold trivially since𝑆0 =∅.
Inductive step. For the inductive step, suppose the invariant holds for(apk𝑗−1, ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1, pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1, sk𝑖∗,𝑗−1,𝑆𝑗−1) and
consider the query(ind𝑗, pk𝑗, op𝑗). To simplify notation, let𝑖 = ind𝑗. First, if op𝑗∈{Add, Remove} and neither of the
conditions (op𝑗 = Add and𝑖 ∉𝑆𝑗−1) or (op𝑗 = Remove and𝑖∈𝑆𝑗−1) holds, then UpdateAPK and UpdateASK leave
their inputs unchanged. In this case,
apk𝑗 = apk𝑗−1, ask𝑖∗,𝑗 = ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1, pk𝑖∗,𝑗 = pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1, sk𝑖∗,𝑗 = sk𝑖∗,𝑗−1 and 𝑆𝑗 =𝑆𝑗−1.
Thus, if the induction invariant holds for(apk𝑗−1, ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1, pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1, sk𝑖∗,𝑗−1,𝑆𝑗−1), then it also holds for
(apk𝑗, ask𝑖∗,𝑗, pk𝑖∗,𝑗, sk𝑖∗,𝑗,𝑆𝑗).
It remains to consider the three cases where the query is non-trivial:
• Case op𝑗 = Add and𝑖 ∉ 𝑆𝑗−1: In this case, 𝑆𝑗 = 𝑆𝑗−1∪{𝑖} with𝑆𝑗[𝑖] = pk𝑗 and𝑆𝑗[𝑗′] = 𝑆𝑗−1[𝑗′] for all
𝑗′∈𝑆𝑗−1. By construction, IncPK outputs
apk𝑗 = apk𝑗−1+ C(𝑖) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
C(𝑗′)+ C(𝑖) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗
C(𝑗′),
where the second equality uses the inductive hypothesis. For the aggregated secret key, suppose𝑆𝑗[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,𝑗
(otherwise, the second property holds vacuously). We consider two sub-cases:
– Suppose𝑖∗ ≠𝑖. Then𝑆𝑗−1[𝑖∗] =𝑆𝑗[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,𝑗 = pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1. Then, by the inductive hypothesis, we have that
ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1 =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,𝑗−1,˝
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1 z(𝑗′,𝑖∗)). In this case, UpdateASK invokes IncSK on(𝑖, pk𝑗) with operation
Add, which adds the local opening z(𝑖,𝑖∗) to the aggregated opening. Thus,
ez𝑖∗,𝑗 =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗)+ z(𝑖,𝑖∗) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗).
– Suppose𝑖∗ =𝑖. In this case,pk𝑗 =𝑆𝑗[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,𝑗 = pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1. Then UpdateASK initializes ask𝑖∗,𝑗 = sk𝑖∗,𝑗−1 =
(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,𝑗−1, z(𝑖∗,𝑖∗)) and invokes IncSK on(𝑗′, t𝑗′,𝑗−1) with operation Add for each member 𝑗′∈𝑆𝑗−1, which
adds the local opening z(𝑗′,𝑖∗). Thus,
ez𝑖∗,𝑗 = z(𝑖∗,𝑖∗)+
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗).
In both cases, we do not update the public/secret keys for any user. We also addpk𝑗 to index𝑖 in the mapping set.
Since UpdateASK initializes𝑆𝑖∗,𝑗 =𝑆𝑗−1 and then sets𝑆𝑖∗,𝑗[𝑖] = pk𝑗, we have𝑆𝑖∗,𝑗 =𝑆𝑗, so mapping consistency
holds. From the induction hypothesis and adding index𝑖 to set𝑆𝑗−1, we can conclude that the invariant holds.
40

• Case op𝑗 = Remove and𝑖∈𝑆𝑗−1: In this case,𝑆𝑗 =𝑆𝑗−1\{𝑖}. By the inductive hypothesis,𝑆𝑗−1[𝑖] = t𝑖,𝑗−1, and
by construction IncPK subtracts the commitment C(𝑖) = Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗𝑆𝑗−1[𝑖]) = Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖,𝑗−1),
which by the inductive hypothesis is exactly the term contributed by user 𝑖 to apk𝑗−1. Thus, the output of
IncPK satisfies
apk𝑗 = apk𝑗−1− C(𝑖) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
C(𝑗′)− C(𝑖) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗
C(𝑗′).
For the aggregated secret key, suppose𝑆𝑗[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,𝑗 (otherwise the second property holds vacuously). This
means that𝑖∗ ≠𝑖 and𝑆𝑗−1[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1, so by the inductive hypothesis, ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1 =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,𝑗−1,˝
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1 z(𝑗′,𝑖∗)).
In this case, UpdateASK invokes IncSK on(𝑖,𝑆 𝑗−1[𝑖]) with operation Remove, which subtracts the local opening
z(𝑖,𝑖∗). Since Open is deterministic, this means
ez𝑖∗,𝑗 =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗−1
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗)− z(𝑖,𝑖∗) =
∑︁
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗
z(𝑗′,𝑖∗).
We do not update the public/secret keys for any user. We also remove index𝑖 from the mapping set. Since
UpdateASK initializes𝑆𝑖∗,𝑗 =𝑆𝑗−1 and then removes index𝑖—the identical rule UpdateAPK uses to update𝑆𝑗−1
to𝑆𝑗—we have𝑆𝑖∗,𝑗 =𝑆𝑗, so mapping consistency holds. From the induction hypothesis and removing index
𝑖 from set𝑆𝑗−1, we can conclude that the invariant holds.
• Case op𝑗 = Refresh: In this case, we first observe that the index sets of𝑆𝑗−1 and𝑆𝑗 coincide (i.e., no user is
added or removed); only the public keys they store change. Throughout this case, we assume that𝑖∗∈𝑆𝑗−1
and𝑆𝑗−1[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1; if 𝑖∗ ∉ 𝑆𝑗−1, then ask𝑖∗,𝑗, pk𝑖∗,𝑗, sk𝑖∗,𝑗 are unchanged and the aggregated secret key
and public/secret key invariants hold vacuously (since𝑆𝑗[𝑖∗] is undefined), while the mapping-consistency
requirement is likewise vacuous.
In a refresh operation, the UpdateAPK procedure computes a ciphertext ctref =(ctref(1),..., ctref(𝜆)) where
ctref(ℓ) is an encryption of theℓ th bit𝛿ℓ of the seed 𝜹 under the aggregate public key apk𝑗−1. In the UpdateASK
procedure, user𝑖∗ uses ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1 to decrypt ctref and recovers a vector 𝜹′. Since the induction hypothesis holds
for(apk𝑗−1, ask𝑖∗,𝑗−1, pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1, sk𝑖∗,𝑗−1,𝑆𝑗−1) and𝑖∗∈𝑆𝑗−1 with𝑆𝑗−1[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗,𝑗−1, Claim 5.12 applies and user
𝑖∗ recovers exactly the seed 𝜹 sampled by UpdPK.
Consequently, for every 𝑗′∈ 𝑆𝑗−1, user 𝑖∗ computes the identical shift 𝚫𝑗′ = 𝐻(𝜹,𝑗′) used by UpdPK, so
𝑆𝑖∗,𝑗[𝑗′] = t𝑗′,𝑗−1+ B𝚫𝑗′ =𝑆𝑗[𝑗′] for every 𝑗′. This establishes mapping consistency for this step.
By construction, UpdPK computes the aggregated public keyapk𝑗 = ˝
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗 C(𝑗′) where C(𝑗′) = Com(ppcom, uT
𝑗′⊗
t𝑗′,𝑗) and t𝑗′,𝑗 = t𝑗′,𝑗−1+ B𝚫𝑗′, so the aggregated public key invariant is maintained.
Similarly, for the aggregated secret key, UpdSK computes ask𝑖∗,𝑗 = (𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,𝑗−1+ 𝚫𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗,𝑗) where ez𝑖∗,𝑗 =˝
𝑗′∈𝑆 𝑗 z(𝑗′,𝑖∗) and z(𝑗′,𝑖∗) is the local opening at position 𝑖∗ associated with(𝑗′, t𝑗′,𝑗). By construction, the
aggregate secret key invariant is maintained.
Finally, the secret key update consistently stores r𝑖∗,𝑗 = r𝑖∗,𝑗−1+ 𝚫𝑖∗ in ask𝑖∗,𝑗 and sk𝑖∗,𝑗 . Since the induction
hypothesis holds, t𝑖∗,𝑗−1 = Br𝑖∗,𝑗−1+ p− Av𝑖∗ where r𝑖∗,𝑗−1∈{0,..., 𝔅+𝑗− 2} ˆ𝑚. Adding B𝚫𝑖∗ to this equation,
we get t𝑖∗,𝑗 = t𝑖∗,𝑗−1+ B𝚫𝑖∗ = B(r𝑖∗,𝑗−1+ 𝚫𝑖∗)+ p− Av𝑖∗. Since 𝚫𝑖∗ is a binary vector, each entry of r𝑖∗,𝑗 grows by
at most one, so r𝑖∗,𝑗∈{0,..., 𝔅+𝑗− 1} ˆ𝑚 as required, and UpdSK computes z(𝑖∗,𝑖∗) satisfying Eq. (5.2). Finally,
we set pk𝑖∗,𝑗 = t𝑖∗,𝑗 , maintaining all conditions of the public/secret key invariant.
In all three cases, we see that the induction invariant holds. The claim now follows by induction. □
Completing the proof. Claim 5.13 establishes mapping consistency. For decryption correctness, suppose𝑆𝑄[𝑖∗] =
pk𝑖∗,𝑄 and let ct← Enc(pp, apk𝑄,𝜇). By the invariant at step 𝑄, apk𝑄 = ˝
𝑗′∈𝑆𝑄 C(𝑗′) and ask𝑖∗,𝑄 =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,𝑄,ez𝑖∗,𝑄)
withez𝑖∗,𝑄 = ˝
𝑗′∈𝑆𝑄 z(𝑗′,𝑖∗) and t𝑖∗,𝑄 = Br𝑖∗,𝑄+ p− Av𝑖∗, where r𝑖∗,𝑄∈{0,..., 𝔅+𝑄− 1} ˆ𝑚. The computation in the
proof of Claim 5.12 applies verbatim with(ct,𝜇) in place of(ctref(ℓ),𝛿ℓ) and𝑆𝑄 in place of𝑆𝑗−1, and the same bound
on|𝜈| gives|𝜈| <𝑞/4. Hence Dec(pp, ask𝑖∗,𝑄, ct) =𝜇 with probability 1. □
41

Theorem 5.14 (Succinctness). Suppose𝑛,𝑚 = poly(𝜆) and𝑞≤ 2poly(𝜆). Then, Construction 5.10 satisfies succinctness
(Definition 5.6).
Proof. Take any pp =(ppcom, A, p) in the support of Setup(1𝜆). By Definition 5.6, it suffices to bound the size of
the keys(apk, ask𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗), along with the size of each individual public key in the output mapping, output by the
procedures IncPK(pp,·,·,·), IncSK(pp,·,·,·), UpdPK(pp,·,·), UpdSK(pp,·,·,·,·,·) by a universal polynomial in𝜆:
• Algorithm IncPK outputs a matrix apk′∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , which can be represented using𝑛𝑚⌈log𝑞⌉ bits.
• Algorithm IncSK outputs a triple ask′
𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗), where𝑖∗∈[ 2𝜆] and r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗∈ Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 . These can be represented
using𝜆+ 2 ˆ𝑚⌈log𝑞⌉ bits.
• Algorithm UpdPK outputs a matrix apk′∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , a refresh ciphertextctref =(ctref(1),..., ctref(𝜆)) where each
ctref(ℓ) =(c1,(ℓ), c2,(ℓ),𝑐 3,(ℓ))∈ Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 × Z𝑚
𝑞 × Z𝑞, and a mapping𝑆′ in which each public key satisfies𝑆′[𝑖]∈ Z𝑛
𝑞.
The key apk′ and ciphertext ctref can be represented by𝑛𝑚⌈log𝑞⌉+ 𝜆· ˆ𝑚⌈log𝑞⌉+ 𝜆·𝑚⌈log𝑞⌉+ 𝜆·⌈ log𝑞⌉
bits, and each public key in𝑆′ by𝑛⌈log𝑞⌉ bits.
• Algorithm UpdSK outputs ask′
𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗), where𝑖∗∈[ 2𝜆] and r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗∈ Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 , a public key pk′
𝑖∗∈ Z𝑛
𝑞, and a se-
cret key sk′
𝑖∗ of the same form, and a mapping𝑆′ in which each public key satisfies𝑆′[𝑖]∈ Z𝑛
𝑞. The keys ask′
𝑖∗ and
sk′
𝑖∗ can each be represented by𝜆+2 ˆ𝑚⌈log𝑞⌉ bits, pk′
𝑖∗ by𝑛⌈log𝑞⌉ bits, and each public key in𝑆′ by𝑛⌈log𝑞⌉ bits.
When𝑛,𝑚 = poly(𝜆), ˆ𝑚 = 4𝑚5, and𝑞≤ 2poly(𝜆), these outputs have size poly(𝜆), as required. □
Theorem 5.15 (Security). If the matrix commitment scheme is secure (Fact 3.5),𝑛≥𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,𝜎≥ log𝑚,
𝑞 is prime, 𝔅∈ 2𝜔(log𝜆), and the conditions in Theorem 5.11 hold, the construction above satisfies static security
(Definition 5.9) in the random oracle model.
Proof. To prove security, we proceed by defining a sequence of hybrid experiments, each parameterized by a bit
𝑏∈{ 0, 1} and implicitly by an adversaryA and a security parameter𝜆:
• Hyb(𝑏)
0 : This is the static security experiment with challenge bit𝑏∈{ 0, 1}. Recall that in the static security
experiment, the adversary commits to all of its pre-challenge queries at the beginning of the experiment, before
seeing the scheme parameters. Concretely, the experiment proceeds as follows:
– Static commitment phase: At the beginning of the experiment, the adversaryA commits to the entire
sequence of pre-challenge queries it will make, where each query is one of the following:
∗ a key-generation query on an index𝑖∈[ 2𝜆];
∗ a corruption query on a counter𝑐; or
∗ an update query on a counter𝑐 and an operation op∈{Add, Remove, Refresh}.
– Setup phase: The challenger begins by sampling the public parameters
ppcom =(W, R, B)← Setupcom(1𝜆), A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , p r← Z𝑛
𝑞.
Next, the challenger initializes a counter ctr = 0, a dictionary D =∅, a mapping𝑆 =∅, a set𝑇 =∅, the
aggregated public key eC = 0𝑛×𝑚 (representing apk =⊥), and a set of corrupted countersC =∅. The
challenger processes each of the committed queries in order and constructs the response to each query
as follows:
∗ Key-generation query on an index 𝑖∈[ 2𝜆]: The challenger increments the counter ctr = ctr+ 1.
It samples rctr
r←{ 0,..., 𝔅− 1} ˆ𝑚 and computes
v𝑖 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖)∈ Z𝑚
𝑞 and tctr = Brctr+ p− Av𝑖∈ Z𝑛
𝑞,
together with the local opening zctr = Open(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ tctr,𝑖). The challenger sets pkctr = tctr,
skctr =(𝑖, rctr, zctr), and askctr =⊥, adds the mapping ctr↦→( 𝑖, pkctr, skctr, askctr) to D, and defines
the response to the query to be pkctr.
42

∗ Corruption query on a counter 𝑐∈[ ctr]: The challenger looks up(𝑖, pk𝑐, sk𝑐, ask𝑐) = D[𝑐] and
defines the response to the query to be(sk𝑐, ask𝑐). In addition, the challenger updatesC =C∪ {𝑐}.
∗ Update query on an operation op∈{Add, Remove, Refresh} together with a counter 𝑐∈[ ctr]
when op∈{Add, Remove}: If op∈{Add, Remove}, the challenger looks up(𝑖, pk𝑐, sk𝑐, ask𝑐) = D[𝑐]
and parses pk𝑐 = t𝑐 and sk𝑐 =(𝑖, r𝑐, z𝑐). If either (op = Add and𝑖∈𝑆) or (op = Remove and𝑐 ∉𝑇 ), the
challenger sets the response to this query to be⊥. Otherwise, if op∈{Add, Remove}, the challenger
computes the commitment
C(𝑐) = Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑐)∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 .
In the following, for counters 𝜏,𝜏′∈𝑇∪{𝑐}, we write(𝑖𝜏, t𝜏) to denote the index and public key
associated with D[𝜏], and we write
z(𝜏,𝜏′) = Open(ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏⊗ t𝜏,𝑖𝜏′)
to denote the respective local openings. The challenger then proceeds based on the operation:
· Case op = Add: For each 𝜏 ∈ 𝑇 , the challenger looks up (𝑖𝜏, pk𝜏, sk𝜏, ask𝜏) = D[𝜏], parses
ask𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏), and updates ask𝜏 in D[𝜏] with(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏+ z(𝑐,𝜏)). For the newly added user,
the challenger computes
ask𝑐 =

𝑖, r𝑐, z𝑐+
∑︁
𝜏∈𝑇
z(𝜏,𝑐)

and updates ask𝑐 in D[𝑐]. Finally, the challenger updates the aggregated public keyeC = eC+ C(𝑐),
sets𝑆[𝑖] = t𝑐, and updates𝑇 =𝑇∪{𝑐}.
· Case op = Remove: For each𝜏∈ 𝑇\{𝑐}, the challenger looks up (𝑖𝜏, pk𝜏, sk𝜏, ask𝜏) = D[𝜏],
parses ask𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏), and updates ask𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏− z(𝑐,𝜏)) in D[𝜏]. It also sets ask𝑐 =⊥ in
D[𝑐]. Finally, the challenger updates the aggregated public key eC = eC− C(𝑐), removes𝑖 from
𝑆, and updates𝑇 =𝑇\{𝑐}.
· Case op = Refresh: Challenger parses apk = eC, samples 𝜹 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and for all 𝜏∈ 𝑇 , sets
𝚫𝜏 =𝐻(𝜹,𝑖𝜏). For allℓ∈[ 𝜆], it samples,
s(ℓ)
r← Z𝑛
𝑞, e(ℓ)
r←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎, D1,(ℓ)
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚, d2,(ℓ)
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚.
If∥e(ℓ)∥≥
√
𝜆e𝜎, it resets e(ℓ) = 0 ˆ𝑚. It then computes ctref =(ctref(1),..., ctref(𝜆)), where for
allℓ∈[ 𝜆], ctref(ℓ) =

cT
1,(ℓ), cT
2,(ℓ),𝑐 3,(ℓ)

and,
cT
1,(ℓ) = sT
(ℓ)B+ eT
(ℓ), cT
2,(ℓ) = sT
(ℓ)(A+ eC)+ eT
(ℓ)D1,(ℓ), 𝑐 3,(ℓ) = sT
(ℓ)p+ eT
(ℓ)d2,(ℓ)+𝜉·𝛿(ℓ).
Let the randomness sampled be denoted by 𝜌 =

𝜹,

s(ℓ), e(ℓ), D1,(ℓ), d2,(ℓ)
	
ℓ∈[𝜆]

. After com-
puting ctref, for each𝜏∈𝑇 , the challenger looks up(𝑖𝜏, pk𝜏, sk𝜏, ask𝜏) = D[𝜏], parses pk𝜏 = t𝜏,
sk𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏, z𝜏), ask𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏). It computes the verification vector v𝜏 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖𝜏) and
for all𝜏∈𝑇,ℓ ∈[ 𝜆], computes,
𝛿𝜏,(ℓ) =⌊𝑐3,(ℓ)+ cT
1,(ℓ)(r𝜏−ez𝜏)− cT
2,(ℓ)v𝜏⌉2.
If for some𝜏∈𝑇 andℓ∈[ 𝜆] the value𝛿𝜏,(ℓ) computed above does not match the sampled bit𝛿(ℓ),
the challenger halts the experiment and outputs 0. This is the concrete instantiation of the check
𝑆𝜏 =𝑆′ in Definition 5.8: since each user derives the shifts𝚫𝜏 from the seed it recovers fromctref,
the mappings agree if and only if every user recovers 𝜹. Otherwise, the challenger computes
apk′ = ˝
𝜏∈𝑇 Com

ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏⊗( t𝜏+ B𝚫𝜏)

and sets eC = apk′ and𝑆[𝑖𝜏] = t𝜏+ B𝚫𝜏 for all𝜏∈𝑇 .
43

For user𝜏∈𝑇 , update
ask′
𝜏 =
 
𝑖𝜏, r𝜏+ 𝚫𝜏,
∑︁
𝜏′∈𝑇
Open

ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏′⊗( t𝜏′+ B𝚫𝜏′),𝑖𝜏
!
,
pk′
𝜏 = t𝜏+ B𝚫𝜏, sk′
𝜏 =

𝑖𝜏, r𝜏+ 𝚫𝜏, Open

ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏⊗( t𝜏+ B𝚫𝜏),𝑖𝜏

.
For all𝜏∈𝑇 , update D[𝜏] =(𝑖𝜏, pk′
𝜏, sk′
𝜏, ask′
𝜏).
The challenger sets the response to the query to be eC,

(𝜏, pk𝜏, sk𝜏, ask𝜏)
	
𝜏∈𝑇∩C
, where(pk𝜏, sk𝜏, ask𝜏)
denote the (possibly updated) keys currently stored in D[𝜏]. If the query is Refresh, the challenger
also includes ctref,𝜌 as part of the response.
After computing the responses to all of the committed pre-challenge queries, the challenger constructs
the challenge ciphertext as follows:
∗ If𝑇 =∅ or𝑇∩C ≠∅, the challenger halts the experiment with output 0.
∗ Otherwise, the challenger sets ˆ𝑇 =𝑇 and ˆC = eC. It samples
ˆs r← Z𝑛
𝑞, ˆe←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎, ˆD1
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚, ˆd2
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚.
If∥ ˆe∥ ≥
√
𝜆e𝜎, it resets ˆe = 0 ˆ𝑚. The challenger then constructs the challenge ciphertext ct∗ =
(ˆc1, ˆc2, ˆ𝑐3) as follows:
ˆcT
1 = ˆsTB+ ˆeT
ˆcT
2 = ˆsT(A+ ˆC)+ ˆeT ˆD1
ˆ𝑐3 = ˆsTp+ ˆeT ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏.
Finally, the challenger gives the public parameters pp = (ppcom, A, p), the responses to each of the
committed pre-challenge queries, and the challenge ciphertext ct∗ toA.
– Refresh phase: The challenger samples ˆ𝜹 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and for all𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 , sets ˆ𝚫𝜏 =𝐻( ˆ𝜹,𝑖𝜏). For allℓ∈[ 𝜆],
it samples,
ˆs(ℓ)
r← Z𝑛
𝑞, ˆe(ℓ)
r←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎, ˆD1,(ℓ)
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚, ˆd2,(ℓ)
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚.
If∥ ˆe(ℓ)∥≥
√
𝜆e𝜎, it resets ˆe(ℓ) = 0 ˆ𝑚. It then computes ˆctref =( ˆctref(1),..., ˆctref(𝜆)), where for allℓ∈[ 𝜆],
ˆctref(ℓ) =

ˆcT
1,(ℓ), ˆcT
2,(ℓ), ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ)

and,
ˆcT
1,(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)B+ ˆeT
(ℓ), ˆcT
2,(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)(A+ ˆC)+ ˆeT
(ℓ) ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)p+ ˆeT
(ℓ)
ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ).
Here, we used the fact that no update query occurs between the challenge phase and the refresh phase,
so the current aggregated public key eC coincides with the aggregated key ˆC from the challenge phase.
After computing ˆctref, for each𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 , the challenger looks up(𝑖𝜏, pk𝜏, sk𝜏, ask𝜏) = D[𝜏], parses pk𝜏 = ˆt𝜏,
sk𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, ˆr𝜏, ˆz𝜏), ask𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, ˆr𝜏, z𝜏). It computes the verification vector v𝜏 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖𝜏) and for all
𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇,ℓ ∈[ 𝜆], computes,
ˆ𝛿𝜏,(ℓ) =⌊ ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ)+ ˆcT
1,(ℓ)(ˆr𝜏− z𝜏)− ˆcT
2,(ℓ)v𝜏⌉2.
If for some 𝜏 ∈ ˆ𝑇 and ℓ ∈ [𝜆] the value ˆ𝛿𝜏,(ℓ) computed above does not match the sampled bit
ˆ𝛿(ℓ), the challenger halts the experiment and outputs 0. Otherwise, the challenger computes ˆapk′ =
˝
𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 Com

ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏⊗( ˆt𝜏+ B ˆ𝚫𝜏)

, and sets eC = ˆapk′ and𝑆[𝑖𝜏] = ˆt𝜏+ B ˆ𝚫𝜏 for all𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 .
For user𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 , update
ˆask′
𝜏 = '›
«
𝑖𝜏, ˆr𝜏+ ˆ𝚫𝜏,
∑︁
𝜏′∈ ˆ𝑇
Open

ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏′⊗( ˆt𝜏′+ B ˆ𝚫𝜏′),𝑖𝜏
“ﬁ
‹
,
ˆpk′
𝜏 = ˆt𝜏+ B ˆ𝚫𝜏, ˆsk′
𝜏 =

𝑖𝜏, ˆr𝜏+ ˆ𝚫𝜏, Open

ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏⊗( ˆt𝜏+ B ˆ𝚫𝜏),𝑖𝜏

.
44

For all𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 , update D[𝜏] =(𝑖𝜏, ˆpk′
𝜏, ˆsk′
𝜏, ˆask′
𝜏). The challenger returns ˆapk′, ˆctref to the adversary. Note
that unlike the query phase, the adversary does not see the randomness used to compute the ciphertext
ˆctref in the refresh phase.
– Post-challenge query phase: The adversary may now make additional (adaptive) key-generation, cor-
ruption, and update queries. The challenger computes the response to each query exactly as it processed
the corresponding pre-challenge queries. The adversary is not allowed to make corruption queries on
counters𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇 (i.e., on public keys that are associated with the challenge ciphertext).
– Reveal phase: The challenger reveals the aggregated public key apk = eC and the dictionary D to the
adversary. Namely, for all𝑐≤ ctr, the challenger outputs D[𝑐] =(𝑖, pk𝑐, sk𝑐, ask𝑐) to the adversary.
– Output phase: At the end of the experiment, the adversary outputs a bit𝑏′∈{ 0, 1}, which is the output
of the experiment.
We write Hyb(𝑏)
0 (A) to denote the output of an execution of Hyb(𝑏)
0 with adversaryA and the challenge bit
𝑏∈{ 0, 1}.
• Hyb(𝑏)
1 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
0 , except the challenger samples in advance the random coins used to answer all queries
in the pre-challenge and challenge phases. The challenger uses these values whenever it needs to sample fresh
randomness during the game. Recall that in the static security experiment, the adversary commits to all of
its pre-challenge queries at the beginning of the experiment, so the setup, the full list of key-generation queries,
and the full list of update queries up to the challenge phase are all fixed before setup, so all of the randomness
needed by the challenger can be sampled at the beginning of the experiment. The post-challenge queries can
still be adaptive (and the challenger does not sample the randomness for these queries in advance).
Specifically, the challenger pre-samples:
– Setup: ppcom =(W, R, B)← Setupcom(1𝜆), A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , and p r← Z𝑛
𝑞.
– Key generation: for each key-generation query (with counter𝑐), the LWE secret r𝑐
r←{ 0,..., 𝔅− 1} ˆ𝑚.
– Query-phase Refresh: for each pre-challenge Refresh query, an independent seed 𝜹′ r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 (defin-
ing 𝚫′
𝑖 = 𝐻(𝜹′,𝑖)) together with its encryption coins for all ℓ ∈ [𝜆], s′
(ℓ)
r← Z𝑛
𝑞, e′
(ℓ) ← Dˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎,
D′
1,(ℓ)
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚, d′
2,(ℓ)
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚.
– Challenge encryption: ˆs r← Z𝑛
𝑞, ˆe←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎, ˆD1
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚, ˆd2
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚.
– Refresh phase: ˆ𝜹 r← {0, 1}𝜆, and for all ℓ ∈ [𝜆], ˆs(ℓ)
r← Z𝑛
𝑞, ˆe(ℓ) ← Dˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎, ˆD1,(ℓ)
r← {0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚,
ˆd2,(ℓ)
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚.
As in Hyb(𝑏)
0 , the truncation resets ˆe = 0 ˆ𝑚 and, for all ℓ ∈ [𝜆], e′
(ℓ) = 0 ˆ𝑚 and ˆe(ℓ) = 0 ˆ𝑚; these remain
deterministic functions of the sampled coins.
• Hyb(𝑏)
2 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
1 , except in the refresh phase the challenger samples the shift vectors of the challenge
users independently, rather than deriving them from the random oracle. Concretely, the challenger still samples
ˆ𝜹 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 (which is still encrypted as the message of ˆctref), but instead of setting ˆ𝚫𝜏 =𝐻( ˆ𝜹,𝑖𝜏), for each
𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 it samples
ˆ𝚫𝜏
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚 independently for each𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇.
Note that these shifts are sampled up front (which is possible since the challenge set ˆ𝑇 is determined by the
committed sequence of pre-challenge queries). Additionally, the experiment immediately halts with output
0 if the value ˆ𝜹 is ever queried to the random oracle𝐻 as a prefix, either by the adversary at any point in the
experiment, or by the challenger itself (which happens only if some refresh query samples a seed 𝜹′ = ˆ𝜹). We
refer to this event as Bad ˆ𝜹. The second case ensures that in Hyb(𝑏)
2 , the value ˆ𝜹 is never used as an input to
𝐻, so replacing𝐻( ˆ𝜹,·) by a uniform random value is consistent.
45

• Hyb(𝑏)
3 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
2 , except that we change how we pre-sample the secret keys of the challenge users
(those𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 ) that will be revealed during the reveal phase. We make the following changes.
– Key generation: When sampling the randomness up front, for every 𝜏 ∈ ˆ𝑇 the challenger samples
r′
𝜏
r←{0,..., 𝔅} ˆ𝑚 (writing v𝜏 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖𝜏)) and sets
pk𝜏 = t𝜏 = Br′
𝜏− B ˆ𝚫𝜏+ p− Av𝜏, r𝜏 = r′
𝜏− ˆ𝚫𝜏, 𝚫Pre,𝜏 = 𝚫Post,𝜏 = 0 ˆ𝑚,
where 𝚫Pre,𝜏 and 𝚫Post,𝜏 track the cumulative shift applied to user𝜏’s secret before and after the challenge
phase, respectively. All other users are generated as in Hyb(𝑏)
2 . Note that the challenger can carry out
this step because the set ˆ𝑇 (and the corrupted set C) are determined by the committed sequence of
pre-challenge queries, so both are known before setup.
Note that this is the Hyb(𝑏)
2 key generation with r𝜏 reparametrized: since Br𝜏 = Br′
𝜏− B ˆ𝚫𝜏, the public
key still satisfies t𝜏 = Br𝜏+ p− Av𝜏. The only difference is the distribution of the secret: in Hyb(𝑏)
2 ,
the challenger samples r𝜏
r←{0,..., 𝔅− 1} ˆ𝑚 directly, while in this experiment, the challenger samples
r𝜏 = r′
𝜏− ˆ𝚫𝜏 for r′
𝜏
r←{0,..., 𝔅} ˆ𝑚. In Claim 5.29, we show that these are statistically close.
– During the pre-challenge query phase (resp., post-challenge query phase), whenever Refresh is run, let
𝜹′ be the sampled seed and 𝚫′
𝜏 =𝐻(𝜹′,𝑖𝜏). For each𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇∩𝑇 (i.e., only for challenge users that are in
the group at the time of this refresh), the challenger updates
𝚫Pre,𝜏 = 𝚫Pre,𝜏+ 𝚫′
𝜏
 resp., 𝚫Post,𝜏 = 𝚫Post,𝜏+ 𝚫′
𝜏
.
– Finally, in the reveal phase, for every𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 the challenger computes
r𝜏 B r′
𝜏+ 𝚫Pre,𝜏+ 𝚫Post,𝜏
and outputs this stored r𝜏 as the second coordinate of sk𝜏 and ask𝜏.
Observe that in Hyb(𝑏)
3 we do not use ˆ𝚫𝜏 when we output r𝜏: the − ˆ𝚫𝜏 term introduced during the setup
cancels out the ˆ𝚫𝜏 term introduced during the refresh. Thus, the revealed value equals the true final secret
r′
𝜏+ 𝚫Pre,𝜏+ 𝚫Post,𝜏. For any𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 , the experiment uses ˆ𝚫𝜏 when computing with B ˆ𝚫𝜏 (in t𝜏), and when using
the secret keys sk𝜏, ask𝜏. Below we will remove the dependence on sk𝜏, ask𝜏.
• Hyb(𝑏)
4 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
3 , except the challenger no longer maintains the secret r𝜏 of a challenge user 𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇
during the experiment: it keeps the secret slot equal to⊥, propagates only the public-key–side quantities (the
public key t𝜏, the aggregated openingez𝜏, and the bookkeeping vectors 𝚫Pre,𝜏, 𝚫Post,𝜏), and reconstructs r𝜏 only
at the reveal phase. We make the following changes.
– Key generation: When sampling the randomness up front, for every 𝜏 ∈ ˆ𝑇 the challenger samples
r′
𝜏
r←{0,..., 𝔅} ˆ𝑚 (writing v𝜏 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖𝜏)) and sets,
t𝜏 = Br′
𝜏− B ˆ𝚫𝜏+ p− Av𝜏, r𝜏 =⊥, 𝚫Pre,𝜏 = 𝚫Post,𝜏 = 0 ˆ𝑚.
All other users are generated as in Hyb(𝑏)
3 . Importantly, the challenger does not store the secret second
coordinate of sk𝜏, ask𝜏; it stores ask𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏,⊥,ez𝜏) and sk𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏,⊥, z𝜏).
– During the pre-challenge query phase, the challenger aborts if it receives a corruption query on any
challenge user 𝜏 ∈ ˆ𝑇 (consistent with Hyb(𝑏)
3 , since ˆ𝑇∩C =∅ in any non-halting execution). The
remaining update queries on a challenge user𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 are processed without touching r𝜏:
∗ On op∈{Add, Remove} targeting counter𝑐 (with index𝑖): the challenger updates the aggregate and
the opening as before, leaving the secret slot⊥,
apk′ = eC± C(𝑐), ask𝜏 =  𝑖𝜏,⊥, ez𝜏± z(𝑐,𝜏)
.
46

∗ On op = Refresh with sampled seed 𝜹′ and 𝚫′
𝜏 =𝐻(𝜹′,𝑖𝜏): the challenger computes ctref as before,
but for the challenge users 𝜏 ∈ ˆ𝑇 it no longer decrypts ctref to obtain 𝜹′
𝜏 and no longer checks
whether 𝜹′
𝜏 = 𝜹′ (this check is the only place where r𝜏 was used). It instead uses the genuine sampled
seed 𝜹′ and does not update r𝜏. It updates the keys as follows:
apk′ =
∑︁
𝜏∈𝑇
Com

ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏⊗( t𝜏+ B𝚫′
𝜏)

.
For all𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 , it updates
ask′
𝜏 =
 
𝑖𝜏,⊥,
∑︁
𝜏′∈𝑇
Open

ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏′⊗( t𝜏′+ B𝚫′
𝜏′), 𝑖𝜏
!
pk𝜏 = t𝜏+ B𝚫′
𝜏
sk𝜏 =

𝑖𝜏,⊥, Open

ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏⊗( t𝜏+ B𝚫′
𝜏), 𝑖𝜏

,
𝚫Pre,𝜏 = 𝚫Pre,𝜏+ 𝚫′
𝜏.
– In the refresh phase, similar to the query phase, the challenger does not use r𝜏 for𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 .
– Run the post-challenge query phase like the modified pre-challenge phase, accumulating each post-
challenge refresh shift into 𝚫Post,𝜏 instead of 𝚫Pre,𝜏, and never updating r𝜏.
– In the reveal phase, for every𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 the challenger reconstructs
r𝜏 = r′
𝜏+ 𝚫Pre,𝜏+ 𝚫Post,𝜏
and reveals the full state as in Hyb(𝑏)
3 : the aggregated public key apk together with D[𝑐] for every𝑐≤ ctr,
where for𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 the entries ask𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏,ez𝜏) and sk𝜏 =(𝑖𝜏, r𝜏, z𝜏) use the reconstructed r𝜏 (the entries
of all other counters are unchanged from Hyb(𝑏)
3 ).
Observe that in Hyb(𝑏)
4 the challenger does not use r𝜏 for any challenge user𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 at any point during the
experiment. It is only reconstructed at reveal. Additionally, ˆ𝚫𝜏 enters the experiment solely through B ˆ𝚫𝜏.
• Hyb(𝑏)
5 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
4 , except wherever the experiment uses B ˆ𝚫𝜏 for a challenge user𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 , the challenger
instead uses a freshly sampled uniform vector. Concretely, for every𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 the challenger samples
¥t𝜏
r← Z𝑛
𝑞
up front (in place of ˆ𝚫𝜏), and substitutes¥t𝜏 for B ˆ𝚫𝜏 throughout.
• Hyb(𝑏)
6 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
5 , except for every𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 the challenger samples the public key t𝜏
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 directly and
derives the refresh-phase shift, rather than sampling¥t𝜏 and deriving t𝜏. We make the following change.
– Key generation: When sampling the randomness up front, for every 𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 , the challenger samples
r′
𝜏
r←{0,..., 𝔅} ˆ𝑚 and t𝜏
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 (writing v𝜏 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖𝜏)), and sets
¥t𝜏 = Br′
𝜏− t𝜏+ p− Av𝜏, r𝜏 =⊥, and 𝚫Pre,𝜏 = 𝚫Post,𝜏 = 0 ˆ𝑚.
All other users are generated as in Hyb(𝑏)
5 . The challenger continues to use¥t𝜏 wherever Hyb(𝑏)
5 did (in
the refresh phase and the aggregated openings), now as a derived quantity.
The point of this rewriting is that t𝜏 is now sampled independently of A, p. Consequently, the challenge-phase
aggregate
ˆC =
∑︁
𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇
Com

ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏⊗( t𝜏+ B𝚫Pre,𝜏)

is a function of ppcom,

t𝜏, 𝚫Pre,𝜏
	
𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 , and in particular does not depend on A, p.
47

• Hyb(𝑏)
7 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
6 , except in the challenge ciphertext generation the challenger no longer checks the
truncation condition∥ ˆe∥≥
√
𝜆e𝜎 and never overwrites ˆe with 0 ˆ𝑚. That is, the challenger uses the freshly
sampled ˆe←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎 as is when forming
ˆcT
1 = ˆsTB+ ˆeT, ˆcT
2 = ˆsT(A+ ˆC)+ ˆeT ˆD1, ˆ𝑐3 = ˆsTp+ ˆeT ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏.
• Hyb(𝑏)
8 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
7 , except the challenger programs the public parameters using the presampled challenge-
encryption coins ˆD1, ˆd2 and the challenge-phase aggregated key ˆC. We make the following changes.
– Setup: For every𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 the challenger samples r′
𝜏
r←{0,..., 𝔅} ˆ𝑚 and the public key t𝜏
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 directly.
The challenger first computes the sets ˆ𝑇 andC determined by the committed sequence of queries; if ˆ𝑇 =∅
or ˆ𝑇∩C ≠∅, the challenger immediately halts the experiment with output 0. Otherwise, it computes
ˆC =
∑︁
𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇
Com

ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏⊗( t𝜏+ B𝚫Pre,𝜏)

,
which (as observed in Hyb(𝑏)
6 ) is a function of ppcom and

t𝜏, 𝚫Pre,𝜏
	
𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 , and in particular does not de-
pend on A, p. Having computed ˆC, the challenger sets A = B ˆD1− ˆC and p = Bˆd2, where( ˆD1, ˆd2) are the
presampled coins of the challenge encryption.
Finally, the shifts¥t𝜏 above are then evaluated with these programmed A, p. Writing v𝜏 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖𝜏),
set the refresh-phase shift as the derived quantity
¥t𝜏 = Br′
𝜏− t𝜏+ p− Av𝜏.
Everything else (key generation for non-challenge users, the query phases, the refresh phase, and the reveal
phase) proceeds exactly as in Hyb(𝑏)
7 , now reading the programmed A, p from the tape.
• Hyb(𝑏)
9 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
8 , except in the challenge ciphertext the challenger samples ˆc1
r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 uniformly, rather
than setting ˆcT
1 = ˆsTB+ ˆeT. It then forms the remaining components of the challenge ciphertext as deterministic
functions of ˆc1: 
ˆc1, ˆcT
1 ˆD1, ˆcT
1 ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏

.
• Hyb(𝑏)
10 : Same as Hyb(𝑏)
9 , except the challenger no longer programs A, p and instead samples them uniformly,
and samples the ciphertext uniformly:
A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , p r← Z𝑛
𝑞, ˆc2
r← Z𝑚
𝑞, ˆ𝑐3
r← Z𝑞,
setting ˆct =(ˆc1, ˆc2, ˆ𝑐3) with ˆc1
r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 (from Hyb(𝑏)
9 ).
We write Hyb(𝑏)
𝑖 (A) to denote the output of an execution of Hyb(𝑏)
𝑖 with adversaryA. We now analyze each pair
of adjacent distributions.
Claim 5.16. For all efficient adversaries A and all 𝑏 ∈ {0, 1}, the distributions Hyb(𝑏)
0 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
1 (A) are
identically distributed.
Proof. The two experiments are identical except for when the random coins are drawn: in Hyb(𝑏)
1 the challenger
samples the coins in advance (based on the committed sequence of queries), while in Hyb(𝑏)
0 , the challenger samples
the coins as the queries arrive. Since the coins themselves are identically distributed, these are identical experiments,
as required. □
48

Claim 5.17. Let𝐻 be modeled as a random oracle. Then for all efficient adversariesA and all𝑏∈{ 0, 1},
Pr[Hyb(𝑏)
1 (A) = 1]− Pr[Hyb(𝑏)
2 (A) = 1]
 ≤ Pr[Bad ˆ𝜹],
where Bad ˆ𝜹 is the event thatA queries𝐻 on a prefix equal to ˆ𝜹.
Proof. The two experiments differ only in (i) how the challenge-refresh shifts
n
ˆ𝚫𝜏
o
𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇
are produced, and (ii) the
added abort on Bad ˆ𝜹. We argue they are identically distributed conditioned on event Bad ˆ𝜹 not happening.
Consider an execution in which A never queries 𝐻 on a prefix equal to ˆ𝜹. In Hyb(𝑏)
1 the challenger sets
ˆ𝚫𝜏 =𝐻( ˆ𝜹,𝑖𝜏); since the prefix ˆ𝜹 is never queried byA, the random-oracle outputs
n
𝐻( ˆ𝜹,𝑖𝜏)
o
𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇
are unconstrained
byA’s queries and are therefore uniform and mutually independent. This is exactly the distribution of the fresh
samples ˆ𝚫𝜏
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚 in Hyb(𝑏)
2 . Hence, conditioned on¬Bad ˆ𝜹, the two experiments are identically distributed.
The experiments proceed identically until Bad ˆ𝜹 occurs, so by the difference lemma the gap in output probabilities
is at most Pr[Bad ˆ𝜹]. □
Claim 5.18. Suppose𝑛≥ 𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,𝜎≥ log𝑚, 𝔅∈ 2𝜔(log𝜆),𝑞 is prime, and suppose that the matrix
commitment scheme is secure (Fact 3.5). Then for every efficient adversary A making at most𝑄𝐻 queries to the
random oracle𝐻, and𝑄ref refresh queries,
Pr
Hyb(𝑏)
2
[Bad ˆ𝜹] ≤𝑄𝐻+𝑄ref
2𝜆 + negl(𝜆),
where Bad ˆ𝜹 is the event thatA queries𝐻 on a prefix equal to ˆ𝜹 during an execution of Hyb(𝑏)
2 .
Proof. To prove this claim, we introduce a sequence of sub-hybrid experiments that gradually remove all dependence
ofA’s view on the seed ˆ𝜹, and then bound Pr[Bad ˆ𝜹] in the final experiment.
Sub-hybrid sequence for bounding Pr[Bad ˆ𝜹]. Throughout, the challenge ciphertext is generated honestly
(with whatever A, p the current sub-hybrid uses) and is never modified; only the refresh-phase ciphertext ˆctref =
( ˆctref(1),..., ˆctref(𝜆)) is transformed.
• G0,..., G4 are defined to be identical to Hyb(𝑏)
2 , Hyb(𝑏)
3 , Hyb(𝑏)
4 , Hyb(𝑏)
5 , Hyb(𝑏)
6 respectively. None of the
changes between Hyb(𝑏)
3 and Hyb(𝑏)
6 modify ˆctref; their sole purpose here is to reach a hybrid (G4 = Hyb(𝑏)
6 )
in which the challenge-phase aggregate ˆC is independent of A, p, which is what makes the programming in
G5 well-defined.
• G5: Same as G4, except in the refresh phase, for every ℓ ∈ [𝜆], the challenger no longer checks whether
∥ ˆe(ℓ)∥≥
√
𝜆e𝜎 and never overwrites ˆe(ℓ) with 0 ˆ𝑚; it uses the untruncated ˆe(ℓ)←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎 as is.
Next we process the𝜆 coordinates of ˆctref one at a time. For eachℓ∈[ 𝜆], we define three sub-games (G6,(ℓ), G7,(ℓ), G8,(ℓ)
for coordinateℓ). At the start of cycleℓ, the coordinatesℓ′∈{1,...,ℓ − 1} of ˆctref are already uniform, and the goal of
the cycle is to make ˆctref(ℓ) uniform as well. After all𝜆 cycles, the refresh ciphertext ˆctref is uniform and independent
of ˆ𝜹. Throughout, ˆC denotes the challenge-phase aggregate (which, by the G3→ G4 transition, is independent of
A, p). Additionally, recall the coordinate-ℓ refresh ciphertext
ˆcT
1,(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)B+ ˆeT
(ℓ), ˆcT
2,(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)(A+ ˆC)+ ˆeT
(ℓ) ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)p+ ˆeT
(ℓ)
ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ). (5.6)
We now define the remaining games:
49

• G6,(ℓ): Same as the previous game, except the challenger first computes the sets ˆ𝑇,C from the committed query
sequence; if ˆ𝑇 =∅ or ˆ𝑇∩C ≠∅ it halts with output 0. Otherwise it computes ˆC = ˝
𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏⊗
(t𝜏+ B𝚫Pre,𝜏)) (independent of A, p) and programs the public parameters using the coordinate-ℓ refresh coins:
A B B ˆD1,(ℓ)− ˆC, p B Bˆd2,(ℓ).
With this programming, A+ ˆC = B ˆD1,(ℓ) and p = Bˆd2,(ℓ), so the coordinate-ℓ components become deterministic
functions of ˆc1,(ℓ):
ˆcT
2,(ℓ) = ˆcT
1,(ℓ) ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ) = ˆcT
1,(ℓ)
ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ).
Everything else (i.e., the challenge ciphertext, all key generation, and the other refresh coordinatesℓ′ ≠ℓ) is
computed with these programmed A, p.
Coordinatesℓ′ <ℓ have ˆc1,(ℓ′), ˆc2,(ℓ′), ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ′) already sampled as uniform and do not depend on A, p; coordinates
ℓ′ >ℓ are computed honestly under the current A, p according to Eq. (5.6).
• G7,(ℓ): Same as G6,(ℓ), except in the coordinate-ℓ refresh ciphertext the challenger samples
ˆc1,(ℓ)
r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞
uniformly, rather than setting ˆcT
1,(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)B+ ˆeT
(ℓ). It forms the remaining coordinate-ℓ components as the
deterministic functions of ˆc1,(ℓ) fixed in G6:
ˆcT
2,(ℓ) = ˆcT
1,(ℓ) ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ) = ˆcT
1,(ℓ)
ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ).
• G8,(ℓ): Same as G7,(ℓ), except the challenger no longer programs A, p and instead samples them uniformly, and
samples the coordinate-ℓ ciphertext uniformly:
A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , p r← Z𝑛
𝑞, ˆc2,(ℓ)
r← Z𝑚
𝑞, ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ)
r← Z𝑞,
setting ˆctref(ℓ) =(ˆc1,(ℓ), ˆc2,(ℓ), ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ)) with ˆc1,(ℓ)
r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 from G7,(ℓ).
Bad-flag experiments. For each game G in the sequence G0,..., G8,(𝜆), we write Gbad for the experiment that runs
G and outputs the single bit
Gbad(A) B
(
1 if𝐻 is queried on a prefix equal to ˆ𝜹 at some point,
0 otherwise,
discardingA’s output bit. Note Pr[Gbad(A) = 1] = PrG[Bad ˆ𝜹] by definition, and that the flag is an efficiently
computable function of the transcript together with ˆ𝜹: the challenger samples ˆ𝜹 itself and observes every oracle
query, so it can maintain the flag online. Recall also that G0 = Hyb(𝑏)
2 halts as soon as the flag is set (Claim 5.17),
so we may assume every game halts at that point.
We now show that the probability of the bad event changes by at most a negligible amount between each adjacent
pair of games in the sequence.
Claim 5.19. If 𝔅∈ 2𝜔(log𝜆), and ˆ𝑚 and| ˆ𝑇| are polynomially bounded functions of𝜆, then for all𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, Gbad
0
and Gbad
1 are statistically indistinguishable.
Proof. The two games differ only in how the secret of each challenge user 𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 is sampled and revealed. In G0,
for every𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 the challenger samples r𝜏
r←{0,..., 𝔅− 1} ˆ𝑚 and ˆ𝚫𝜏
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚, sets r′
𝜏 = r𝜏+ ˆ𝚫𝜏, and outputs
r𝜏+ ˆ𝚫𝜏+ 𝚫Pre,𝜏+ 𝚫Post,𝜏 during the reveal phase. In G1, for every𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 the challenger samples r′
𝜏
r←{0,..., 𝔅} ˆ𝑚
and ˆ𝚫𝜏
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚, sets r𝜏 = r′
𝜏− ˆ𝚫𝜏, and outputs r′
𝜏+ 𝚫Pre,𝜏+ 𝚫Post,𝜏 during the reveal phase.
In both games, the rest of the view is one fixed function of r𝜏, r′
𝜏, the public-key-side shift B ˆ𝚫𝜏, and the book-
keeping vectors: the public key is t𝜏 = Br′
𝜏− B ˆ𝚫𝜏+ p− Av𝜏 = Br𝜏+ p− Av𝜏 and evolves identically under refreshes,
so it is determined by either of r𝜏, r′
𝜏 together with B ˆ𝚫𝜏. Thus it suffices to compare the joint distribution of the triple
(r𝜏, ˆ𝚫𝜏, r′
𝜏) across the two games, where in G0 the triple is(r𝜏, ˆ𝚫𝜏, r𝜏+ ˆ𝚫𝜏) and in G1 it is(r′
𝜏− ˆ𝚫𝜏, ˆ𝚫𝜏, r′
𝜏).
50

Lemma 5.20. For any 𝔅,𝜆∈ Z, letD1,D2 be the following distributions.
• DistributionD1: Sample𝑣 r←{0,..., 𝔅− 1} and𝑢 r←{ 0, 1}. LetD1 =(𝑣,𝑢,𝑢 +𝑣).
• DistributionD2: Sample𝑣′ r←{0,..., 𝔅} and𝑢 r←{ 0, 1}. LetD2 =(𝑣′−𝑢,𝑢,𝑣 ′).
If 𝔅∈ 2𝜔(log𝜆), thenD1≈𝑠D2.
Proof. Since the first coordinate is the difference of the next two coordinates, it suffices to analyze the statistical
distance between(𝑢,𝑢+𝑣) and(𝑢,𝑣′). For every𝑘∈{1,..., 𝔅− 1} and𝑑∈{ 0, 1},
Pr
D1
[𝑢+𝑣 =𝑘,𝑢 =𝑑] = 1
2𝔅.
At the boundary,
Pr
D1
[𝑢+𝑣 = 0,𝑢 = 1] = 0, Pr
D1
[𝑢+𝑣 = 𝔅,𝑢 = 0] = 0,
while
Pr
D1
[𝑢+𝑣 = 0,𝑢 = 0] = 1
2𝔅, Pr
D1
[𝑢+𝑣 = 𝔅,𝑢 = 1] = 1
2𝔅.
UnderD2, for every𝑘∈{0,..., 𝔅} and𝑑∈{ 0, 1},
Pr
D2
[𝑢+𝑣 =𝑘,𝑢 =𝑑] = 1
2(𝔅+ 1).
Plugging in these values,
Δ(D1,D2) = 1
2
∑︁
𝑘,𝑑
Pr
D1
[𝑢+𝑣 =𝑘,𝑢 =𝑑]− Pr
D2
[𝑢+𝑣 =𝑘,𝑢 =𝑑]
 = 1
𝔅+ 1.
Since 𝔅∈ 2𝜔(log𝜆), this is negligible in𝜆. □
We now lift this to vectors of dimension ˆ𝑚.
Lemma 5.21. For any 𝔅, ˆ𝑚,𝜆∈ Z, letD1,D2 be the following distributions.
• DistributionD1: Sample v r←{0,..., 𝔅− 1} ˆ𝑚 and u r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚. LetD1 =(v, u, u+ v).
• DistributionD2: Sample v′ r←{0,..., 𝔅} ˆ𝑚 and u r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚. LetD2 =(v′− u, u, v′).
If ˆ𝑚 is a polynomially bounded function of𝜆 and 𝔅∈ 2𝜔(log𝜆), thenD1≈𝑠D2.
Proof. A standard hybrid argument over the ˆ𝑚 coordinates, applied to Lemma 5.20, shows that the statistical distance
between the distributions is at most ˆ𝑚/(𝔅+1). Since ˆ𝑚 is polynomial and𝔅 is super-polynomial, the result follows. □
In our case the two games differ in computing the pair (r𝜏, r′
𝜏) from ˆ𝚫𝜏, which is precisely the substitution
(v, u, u+ v)↦→( v′− u, u, v′) of Lemma 5.21 (with u = ˆ𝚫𝜏). A standard hybrid argument over the set ˆ𝑇 , applied to
Lemma 5.21, shows that the statistical distance between the two games is at most ˆ𝑚·| ˆ𝑇|
𝔅+1 . Since both ˆ𝑚 and| ˆ𝑇| are
polynomially bounded, the claim follows. □
Claim 5.22. Assuming Claim 5.12 holds (conditions in Theorem 5.11 hold), for all efficientA and all𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the
views ofA in Gbad
1 and Gbad
2 are identically distributed.
Proof. The games differ only in bookkeeping for the challenge users𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 :
51

• Deferred reconstruction of r𝜏 : In G2 the secret coordinate of sk𝜏, ask𝜏 is stored as⊥ during the experiment
and reconstructed as r′
𝜏+ 𝚫Pre,𝜏+ 𝚫Post,𝜏 at the reveal phase. Moreover, the secret coordinate of a challenge
user is never used to form any earlier response: it appears only in the decryption check ˆ𝜹𝜏 = ˆ𝜹 in the refresh
phase, which G2 omits. The omission does not change the response because for an honestly generated ˆctref, the
computation in the proof of Claim 5.12 shows thatˆ𝜹𝜏 always matches ˆ𝜹. The computation applies verbatim here:
the challenger maintains the keys of each𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 exactly as UpdateASK does. The one difference is that after the
reparametrization of G1, the secret used in the check is r𝜏 = r′
𝜏− ˆ𝚫𝜏 plus the accumulated query-phase shifts,
whose entries lie in{−1,..., 𝔅+𝑄} rather than in{0,..., 𝔅+𝑄}. Since only the bound∥r𝜏∥≤ 𝔅+𝑄≤ 2𝜆+1
is used in the proof of Claim 5.12, the same noise bound applies.
• Early abort on corruption of a challenge user: In G2 the game aborts on a corruption query to some𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 .
In any non-halting execution ˆ𝑇∩C =∅, so this abort coincides with the halt already present.
All other steps are unchanged, so the two games are identical. □
Claim 5.23. Suppose𝑛≥𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,𝜎≥ log𝑚, and𝑞 is prime. Then for all efficientA and all𝑏∈{ 0, 1},
the views ofA in Gbad
2 and Gbad
3 are statistically indistinguishable.
Proof. In the entire experimentG2, the shifts
n
ˆ𝚫𝜏
o
𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇
enter the experiment only through the public-key-side quantities
n
B ˆ𝚫𝜏
o
𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇
; in particular they no longer appear in any revealed secret. The games differ only in that G3 replaces each
B ˆ𝚫𝜏 by a fresh uniform¥t𝜏
r← Z𝑛
𝑞. Collecting the independent samples ˆ𝚫𝜏
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚 into ˆK =[ ˆ𝚫𝜏]𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇∈{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×| ˆ𝑇|,
which is used nowhere else, Lemma 3.4 gives
 W, R, B ˆK ≈𝑠
 W, R, U, U r← Z𝑛×| ˆ𝑇|
𝑞 ,
where B is the matrix determined by(W, R) in ppcom. Hence
n
B ˆ𝚫𝜏
o
𝜏
≈𝑠
¥t𝜏
	
𝜏 jointly with the rest of the view, which
is exactly the change from G2 to G3. □
Claim 5.24. For all efficientA and all𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the views ofA in Gbad
3 and Gbad
4 are identically distributed.
Proof. The change is only a reordering of the sampling for the challenge users. In G3, for each𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 the challenger
samples¥t𝜏
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 and sets t𝜏 = Br′
𝜏−¥t𝜏+ p− Av𝜏; in G4 it samples t𝜏
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 and sets¥t𝜏 = Br′
𝜏− t𝜏+ p− Av𝜏. For fixed
r′
𝜏, A, p, v𝜏, the map¥t𝜏↦→ t𝜏 is a bijection on Z𝑛
𝑞, so the joint distribution of(t𝜏,¥t𝜏) is the same under both samplings.
Every other quantity is computed identically from this pair, so the games are identical. □
Claim 5.25. Suppose𝑚 = poly(𝜆). Then for allA and all𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the views ofA in Gbad
4 and Gbad
5 are statistically
indistinguishable.
Proof. The games are identical except on the event that for some ℓ ∈ [𝜆], the sampled ˆe(ℓ) ← Dˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎 satisfies
∥ ˆe(ℓ)∥ ≥
√
𝜆e𝜎: in this case G4 resets ˆe(ℓ) = 0 ˆ𝑚 while G5 keeps the sampled value. By the Gaussian tail bound
(Lemma 3.2), each of the𝜆· ˆ𝑚 sampled entries has magnitude at least
√
𝜆e𝜎 with probability at most 2−𝜆, so by a union
bound (and since ˆ𝑚 is polynomial in𝜆) this event occurs with probability at most 𝜆 ˆ𝑚· 2−𝜆 = negl(𝜆). Hence the
two games are statistically close. □
Next we chain the per-coordinate cycles together. Define the boundary gameGbad
8,(0) B Gbad
5 , so that the experiment
proceeds through
Gbad
5 = Gbad
8,(0) → Gbad
6,(1)→ Gbad
7,(1)→ Gbad
8,(1) → Gbad
6,(2)→···→ Gbad
8,(𝜆).
Claim 5.26. Suppose𝑛≥ 𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,𝜎≥ log𝑚, and𝑞 is prime. Then, for all adversaries A and all
𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the views ofA in Gbad
8,(ℓ−1) and Gbad
6,(ℓ) are statistically indistinguishable.
Proof. The only difference between the two experiments is the distribution of the public parameters(A, p):
52

• In Gbad
8,(ℓ−1), the challenger samples A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 and p r← Z𝑛
𝑞.
• In Gbad
6,(ℓ), the challenger sets A = B ˆD1,(ℓ)− ˆC and p = Bˆd2,(ℓ), where ˆD1,(ℓ)
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚 and ˆd2,(ℓ)
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚
are the coordinate-ℓ refresh coins and ˆC = ˝
𝜏∈ ˆ𝑇 Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖𝜏⊗( t𝜏+ B𝚫Pre,𝜏)).
The values( ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆd2,(ℓ)) are sampled independently of everything else in the experiments. Moreover, other than
in the definition of(A, p) in Gbad
6,(ℓ), the values( ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆd2,(ℓ)) only appear via the terms ˆeT
(ℓ)
ˆD1,(ℓ) and ˆeT
(ℓ)
ˆd2,(ℓ) in the
coordinate-ℓ refresh ciphertext components
ˆcT
2,(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)(A+ ˆC)+ ˆeT
(ℓ) ˆD1,(ℓ) and ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)p+ ˆeT
(ℓ)
ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ).
In particular, the coordinatesℓ′ <ℓ of ˆctref were made uniform in their respective Gbad
8 steps and no longer reference
( ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆd2,(ℓ)), the coordinatesℓ′ >ℓ use disjoint coins, and the challenge ciphertext uses its own coins( ˆD1, ˆd2); so
the only appearances of( ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆd2,(ℓ)) are as above. Finally, the matrix ˆC is determined by the committed sequence
of queries together with the public keys t𝑐
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 for𝑐 ∈ ˆ𝑇 . All of these values are sampled independently of
( ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆd2,(ℓ)) and of(A, p). By Lemma 3.4, the distributions

W, R, B[ ˆD1,(ℓ)| ˆd2,(ℓ)], ˆeT
(ℓ)[ ˆD1,(ℓ)| ˆd2,(ℓ)]

and 
W, R,[ ˜A| ˜p], ˆeT
(ℓ)[ ˆD1,(ℓ)| ˆd2,(ℓ)]

are statistically close, where ˜A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 and ˜p r← Z𝑛
𝑞.
To conclude, we observe that the remainder of the two experiments is the same deterministic function of the
quantities shown above along with coins that are independent of( ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆd2,(ℓ)). Concretely, the public parameters are
A = B ˆD1,(ℓ)− ˆC and p = Bˆd2,(ℓ) (respectively ˜A− ˆC and ˜p, which are uniform since ˆC is independent of the extractor
output). Every public key of a non-challenge user, the aggregated keys, the challenge ciphertext, and every refresh
coordinateℓ′ ≠ℓ are derived from(A, p) and independent coins. The components above are computed from A, p,
ˆs(ℓ) and ˆeT
(ℓ)[ ˆD1,(ℓ)| ˆd2,(ℓ)]. Statistical closeness of the two experiments therefore follows. □
Simulating the random oracle. All of the reductions below simulate𝐻 forA using a single lazily populated table
T of query/answer pairs, shared betweenA’s oracle queries and the reduction’s own evaluations of𝐻.
• On a fresh query(𝜹,𝑖) ∉T : if 𝜹 = ˆ𝜹, set the Bad flag, halt, and output 1. Otherwise sample 𝚫 r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚, add
(𝜹,𝑖)↦→ 𝚫 toT , and return 𝚫.
• On a repeated query, return the stored answer.
• Whenever the reduction itself needs a query-phase refresh shift 𝚫′
𝜏 = 𝐻(𝜹′,𝑖𝜏), where 𝜹′ is the seed it has
just sampled, it obtains 𝚫′
𝜏 by evaluating𝐻 through this same table : it returns the stored value if(𝜹′,𝑖𝜏)∈T ,
and otherwise samples 𝚫′
𝜏
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚 and stores(𝜹′,𝑖𝜏)↦→ 𝚫′
𝜏. Because the table is shared, any later query of
𝐻(𝜹′,𝑖𝜏) byA—which learns 𝜹′ from the revealed randomness𝜌—receives the identical value, so the simulation
is consistent.
Crucially, the reduction never needs to evaluate𝐻 at the prefix ˆ𝜹: from G0 = Hyb(𝑏)
2 onward the challenge-refresh
shifts are sampled independently of𝐻, and from G3 = Hyb(𝑏)
5 onward they are replaced by uniform vectors¥t𝜏 and
do not appear at all. If a query-phase seed satisfies 𝜹′ = ˆ𝜹 (which occurs with probability at most𝑄ref· 2−𝜆 over the
reduction’s choice of the𝑄ref seeds), the reduction halts and outputs 1; this only increases its advantage.
Claim 5.27. Suppose the matrix commitment scheme (Fact 3.5) is secure. Then, for all efficient adversariesA and
all𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the distributions Gbad
6,(ℓ)(A) and Gbad
7,(ℓ)(A) are computationally indistinguishable.
53

Proof. The only difference between the two experiments is the construction of coordinateℓ of the refresh ciphertext:
in Gbad
6,(ℓ), the challenger samples ˆs(ℓ)
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 and ˆe(ℓ)←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎 and sets
ˆcT
1,(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)B+ ˆeT
(ℓ), ˆcT
2,(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)(A+ ˆC)+ ˆeT
(ℓ) ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)p+ ˆeT
(ℓ)
ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ),
whereas in Gbad
7,(ℓ), the challenger samples ˆc1,(ℓ)
r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 and sets ˆcT
2,(ℓ) = ˆcT
1,(ℓ)
ˆD1,(ℓ) and ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ) = ˆcT
1,(ℓ)
ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ). Fix
a bit𝑏∈{ 0, 1}. Suppose there exists an efficient adversaryA where
Pr[Gbad
6,(ℓ)(A) = 1]− Pr[Gbad
7,(ℓ)(A) = 1]
≥𝜀(𝜆),
for some non-negligible𝜀. We useA to construct an adversaryB for the matrix-commitment security game (Fact 3.5):
• Initialization: At the beginning of the game, algorithmB receives a challenge(ppcom, ˆy) from the matrix-
commitment challenger, where ppcom =(W, R, B) and ˆy∈ Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 is either an LWE sample ˆyT = ˆsT
(ℓ)B+ ˆeT
(ℓ) (where
ˆs(ℓ)
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 and ˆe(ℓ)←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎) or a uniform random vector ˆy r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 .
• Static commitment phase: AlgorithmB starts running algorithmA, which commits to the entire sequence
of pre-challenge queries it will make.
• Setup phase: AlgorithmB computes the sets ˆ𝑇 andC determined by the committed sequence of queries as
in Gbad
6,(ℓ) and Gbad
7,(ℓ). If ˆ𝑇 =∅ or ˆ𝑇∩C ≠∅, algorithmB halts with output 0. AlgorithmB uses the parameters
ppcom =(W, R, B) from its challenge instead of sampling them itself. It samples the coordinate-ℓ refresh coins
ˆD1,(ℓ)
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚 and ˆd2,(ℓ)
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚, the public keys t𝑐
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 for all𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇 together with the pre-challenge
refresh shifts as in the earlier games, and computes
ˆC =
∑︁
𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇
Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖𝑐⊗( t𝑐+ B𝚫Pre,𝑐)),
where𝑖𝑐 denotes the index associated with counter𝑐 in the committed sequence of queries. AlgorithmB then
sets A = B ˆD1,(ℓ)− ˆC and p = Bˆd2,(ℓ). Next, algorithmB initializes a counter ctr = 0, a dictionary D =∅, a
mapping𝑆 =∅, a set𝑇 =∅, the aggregated public key eC = 0𝑛×𝑚, and a set of corrupted countersC =∅, and
processes the committed queries in order exactly as the challenger does in Gbad
6,(ℓ) and Gbad
7,(ℓ):
– Key-generation query on an index𝑖∈[ 2𝜆]: AlgorithmB increments the counterctr = ctr+1. If ctr∈ ˆ𝑇 ,
it sets pkctr = tctr (the public key sampled at the beginning of the setup phase) and skctr = askctr =⊥. If
ctr ∉ ˆ𝑇 , it samples rctr
r←{ 0,..., 𝔅− 1} ˆ𝑚, computes
v𝑖 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖), tctr = Brctr+ p− Av𝑖, zctr = Open(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ tctr,𝑖),
and sets pkctr = tctr, skctr =(𝑖, rctr, zctr), and askctr =⊥. In both cases, algorithm B adds the mapping
ctr↦→( 𝑖, pkctr, skctr, askctr) to D and defines the response to the query to be pkctr.
– Corruption query on a counter 𝑐∈[ ctr]: AlgorithmB looks up(𝑖, pk𝑐, sk𝑐, ask𝑐) = D[𝑐], defines the
response to the query to be(sk𝑐, ask𝑐), and updatesC =C∪ {𝑐}.
– Update query on a counter 𝑐 ∈ [ctr] and operation op∈{Add, Remove, Refresh}: AlgorithmB
proceeds exactly as the challenger in Gbad
6,(ℓ), Gbad
7,(ℓ) (updating eC, the openingsez𝜏, and the aggregated keys,
leaving the secret slots of counters in ˆ𝑇 equal to⊥). Since Com and Open are deterministic andB knows
all of their inputs (the public keys stored in D), it can carry out all of these updates without knowledge
of ˆs(ℓ) or ˆe(ℓ) or using ˆy.
• Challenge ciphertext: AlgorithmB constructs the challenge ciphertext ct∗ =(ˆc1, ˆc2, ˆ𝑐3) honestly, using the
freshly sampled challenge coins(ˆs, ˆe, ˆD1, ˆd2) as in Gbad
6,(ℓ) and Gbad
7,(ℓ). (The challenge ciphertext is unaffected by
this transition; only coordinateℓ of the refresh ciphertext changes.)
54

• Refresh phase: AlgorithmB constructs the refresh ciphertext ˆctref =( ˆctref(1),..., ˆctref(𝜆)) coordinate by
coordinate:
– for coordinatesℓ′ <ℓ, it samples ˆctref(ℓ′) uniformly (these are already uniform in both Gbad
6,(ℓ) and Gbad
7,(ℓ));
– for coordinateℓ, it sets
ˆc1,(ℓ) = ˆy, ˆcT
2,(ℓ) = ˆyT ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ) = ˆyT ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ) ;
– for coordinatesℓ′ > ℓ, it samples fresh coins(ˆs(ℓ′), ˆe(ℓ′), ˆD1,(ℓ′), ˆd2,(ℓ′)) and computes ˆctref(ℓ′) honestly
under the current A, p according to Eq. (5.6).
AlgorithmB then updates the aggregated keys and the dictionary in the refresh phase exactly as the challenger
in Gbad
6,(ℓ), Gbad
7,(ℓ), and returns(apk, ˆctref) toA.
• Post-challenge query phase: AlgorithmB responds to each of the adversary’s adaptive key-generation,
corruption, and update queries using the same procedure it used to process the committed pre-challenge queries.
• Reveal and output phase: AlgorithmB performs the reveal phase exactly as in Gbad
6,(ℓ), Gbad
7,(ℓ) (reconstructing
r𝑐 for𝑐∈ ˆ𝑇 from r′
𝑐, 𝚫Pre,𝑐, 𝚫Post,𝑐, none of which involve ˆy). AlgorithmB outputs 1 ifA queried𝐻 on a prefix
equal to ˆ𝜹 at any point during the execution, and 0 otherwise. Note thatB samples ˆ𝜹 itself and observes all
ofA’s oracle queries, so this condition is efficiently checkable. (We do not forwardA’s output bit: the purpose
of this chain is to bound Pr[Bad ˆ𝜹], not the distinguishing advantage.)
SinceA is efficient, algorithmB is also efficient. By construction, algorithmB implements the challenger in Gbad
6,(ℓ)
and Gbad
7,(ℓ) exactly, except it uses its challenge ˆy to construct coordinateℓ of the refresh ciphertext. Other than this
coordinate, the challenger’s behavior in the two experiments is identical and does not depend on ˆs(ℓ) or ˆe(ℓ). We
now consider the two possibilities for ˆy:
• Suppose ˆyT = ˆsT
(ℓ)B+ ˆeT
(ℓ) where ˆs(ℓ)
r← Z𝑛
𝑞 and ˆe(ℓ)←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎. Since A+ ˆC = B ˆD1,(ℓ) and p = Bˆd2,(ℓ), this means
ˆcT
1,(ℓ) = ˆyT = ˆsT
(ℓ)B+ ˆeT
(ℓ)
ˆcT
2,(ℓ) = ˆyT ˆD1,(ℓ) =  ˆsT
(ℓ)B+ ˆeT
(ℓ)
 ˆD1,(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)(A+ ˆC)+ ˆeT
(ℓ) ˆD1,(ℓ)
ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ) = ˆyT ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ) =  ˆsT
(ℓ)B+ ˆeT
(ℓ)
 ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ) = ˆsT
(ℓ)p+ ˆeT
(ℓ)
ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ).
Thus, in this case, algorithm B constructs coordinate ℓ of the refresh ciphertext exactly according to the
specification in Gbad
6,(ℓ).
• Suppose ˆy r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 . Then ˆc1,(ℓ) = ˆy is uniform over Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 , and algorithm B sets ˆcT
2,(ℓ) = ˆcT
1,(ℓ)
ˆD1,(ℓ) and
ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ) = ˆcT
1,(ℓ)
ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ). This matches the distribution in Gbad
7,(ℓ).
We conclude that the distinguishing advantage ofB in the matrix-commitment security game is at least𝜀, which
contradicts the security of the matrix commitment scheme (Fact 3.5). □
Claim 5.28. Suppose𝑛≥ 𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,𝜎≥ log𝑚, and𝑞 is prime. Then, for all adversaries A and all
𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the views ofA in Gbad
7,(ℓ) and Gbad
8,(ℓ) are statistically indistinguishable.
Proof. The only difference between the two games is the distribution of the tuple(A, p, ˆc2,(ℓ), ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ)):
• In Gbad
7,(ℓ), the challenger sets A = B ˆD1,(ℓ)− ˆC, p = Bˆd2,(ℓ), ˆcT
2,(ℓ) = ˆcT
1,(ℓ)
ˆD1,(ℓ), and ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ) = ˆcT
1,(ℓ)
ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ),
where ˆD1,(ℓ)
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚 and ˆd2,(ℓ)
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚.
• In Gbad
8,(ℓ), the challenger samples A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , p r← Z𝑛
𝑞, ˆc2,(ℓ)
r← Z𝑚
𝑞 , and ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ)
r← Z𝑞.
55

In Gbad
7,(ℓ), the challenger samples ˆc1,(ℓ)
r← Z ˆ𝑚
𝑞 (which is independent of all other parameters), and the coins ˆD1,(ℓ) and
ˆd2,(ℓ) are independent of each other and of all other coins. Apart from the four quantities listed above, they do not
appear in the view. The claim then follows by two independent invocations of the leftover hash lemma:
• By combining Lemma 3.4 and Lemma 3.1 as in Claim 4.20, the distributions

W, R, ˆc1,(ℓ), Bˆd2,(ℓ), ˆcT
1,(ℓ)
ˆd2,(ℓ)

and  W, R, ˆc1,(ℓ), p, ˆ𝑐′
3

are statistically close, where p r← Z𝑛
𝑞 and ˆ𝑐′
3
r← Z𝑞.
• Similarly, by combining Lemma 3.4 and Lemma 3.1, the distributions

W, R, ˆc1,(ℓ), B ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆcT
1,(ℓ) ˆD1,(ℓ)

and  W, R, ˆc1,(ℓ), U, ˆc′
2

are statistically close, where U r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 and ˆc′
2
r← Z𝑚
𝑞 .
Combining the two (the sources ˆd2,(ℓ), ˆD1,(ℓ) are independent, and we can invoke LHL sequentially), and using that
adding𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ) to a uniform value and subtracting the independent ˆC from a uniform matrix preserve uniformity,
the following distributions are statistically close:

W, R, ˆc1,(ℓ), B ˆD1,(ℓ)− ˆC, Bˆd2,(ℓ), ˆcT
1,(ℓ) ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆcT
1,(ℓ)
ˆd2,(ℓ)+𝜉· ˆ𝛿(ℓ)

and  W, R, ˆc1,(ℓ), A, p, ˆc2,(ℓ), ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ)
,
where A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 , p r← Z𝑛
𝑞, ˆc2,(ℓ)
r← Z𝑚
𝑞 , and ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ)
r← Z𝑞. The left distribution corresponds to Gbad
7,(ℓ) and the right
to Gbad
8,(ℓ). In particular, ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ) in Gbad
8,(ℓ) is independent of ˆ𝛿(ℓ). □
Finally, in Gbad
8,(𝜆) every coordinateℓ∈[ 𝜆] of ˆctref was made uniform and independent of ˆ𝛿(ℓ) by Claim 5.28, so
ˆctref =( ˆctref(1),..., ˆctref(𝜆)) is uniform and independent of ˆ𝜹 =( ˆ𝛿(1),..., ˆ𝛿(𝜆)).
Consequently, in Gbad
8,(𝜆) the seed ˆ𝜹 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 is uniform and independent ofA’s entire view, so each of its𝑄𝐻
oracle queries has prefix ˆ𝜹 with probability 2−𝜆. By a union bound (and accounting for the event that one of the𝑄ref
query-phase seeds equals ˆ𝜹, which occurs with probability at most𝑄ref· 2−𝜆), Pr[Bad ˆ𝜹]≤( 𝑄𝐻+𝑄ref)/2𝜆 in Gbad
8,(𝜆),
where𝑄𝐻 is the total number of oracle queries made by the adversary to the random oracle𝐻.
Since the event Bad ˆ𝜹 is an efficiently computable condition on the transcript (together with the challenger-internal
value ˆ𝜹), each of Claims 5.19 and 5.22 to 5.28 bounds the change in Pr[Bad ˆ𝜹] across the corresponding transition.
Hence, by a standard sequence-of-games argument,
Pr
G0
[Bad ˆ𝜹] ≤ Pr
G8,(𝜆)
[Bad ˆ𝜹]+ negl(𝜆) ≤ (𝑄𝐻+𝑄ref)· 2−𝜆+ negl(𝜆). □
We now return to the main sequence of hybrids. The remaining transitions are related to the sub-hybrids of Claim 5.18
as follows:
• The transitions Hyb(𝑏)
2 → Hyb(𝑏)
3 → Hyb(𝑏)
4 → Hyb(𝑏)
5 → Hyb(𝑏)
6 are the transitions G0→ G1→ G2→
G3→ G4, since G𝑖 = Hyb(𝑏)
𝑖+2 for𝑖∈{0,..., 4}. The only difference is that the G-claims compare the bad-flag
experiments whereas the Hyb(𝑏)-claims compareA’s output; each of the arguments establishes (statistical or
exact) closeness of the full transcript.
• The transitions Hyb(𝑏)
6 → Hyb(𝑏)
7 → Hyb(𝑏)
8 → Hyb(𝑏)
9 → Hyb(𝑏)
10 are the challenge-ciphertext analogs of
G4→ G5→ G6,(ℓ)→ G7,(ℓ)→ G8,(ℓ): they remove the truncation of the challenge error ˆe (rather than the
refresh errors ˆe(ℓ)), program A, p with the challenge coins ˆD1, ˆd2 (rather than the coordinate-ℓ refresh coins),
and randomize the challenge ciphertext (rather than one coordinate of ˆctref). Since there is only a single
challenge ciphertext, no coordinate-by-coordinate loop is needed here.
56

Claim 5.29. If 𝔅∈ 2𝜔(log𝜆), and ˆ𝑚 and| ˆ𝑇| are polynomially bounded functions of 𝜆, then for all 𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the
distributions Hyb(𝑏)
2 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
3 (A) are statistically indistinguishable.
Proof. Identical statement and proof to Claim 5.19. □
Claim 5.30. Assuming Claim 5.12 holds (conditions in Theorem 5.11 hold), for all efficientA and all𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the
distributions Hyb(𝑏)
3 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
4 (A) are identically distributed.
Proof. Identical statement and proof to Claim 5.22. □
Claim 5.31. Suppose𝑛≥𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,𝜎≥ log𝑚, and𝑞 is prime. Then for all efficientA and all𝑏∈{ 0, 1},
the distributions Hyb(𝑏)
4 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
5 (A) are statistically indistinguishable.
Proof. Identical statement and proof to Claim 5.23. □
Claim 5.32. For all efficient A and all 𝑏 ∈ {0, 1}, the distributions Hyb(𝑏)
5 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
6 (A) are identically
distributed.
Proof. Identical statement and proof to Claim 5.24. □
Claim 5.33. Suppose𝑚 = poly(𝜆). Then for allA and all𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the distributions Hyb(𝑏)
6 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
7 (A)
are statistically indistinguishable.
Proof. Analogous to Claim 5.25, but applied to the challenge error rather than the refresh errors. □
Claim 5.34. Suppose𝑛≥ 𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,𝜎≥ log𝑚, and𝑞 is prime. Then, for all adversaries A and all
𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the distributions Hyb(𝑏)
7 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
8 (A) are statistically indistinguishable.
Proof. The proof proceeds exactly as the proof of Claim 5.26, except that the programming uses the coins ˆD1, ˆd2
sampled for the challenge ciphertext in place of the refresh coins ˆD1,(ℓ), ˆd2,(ℓ). □
Claim 5.35. Suppose the matrix commitment scheme (Fact 3.5) is secure. Then, for all efficient adversariesA and
all𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the distributions Hyb(𝑏)
8 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
9 (A) are computationally indistinguishable.
Proof. The proof proceeds very similarly to the proof of Claim 5.27 but performed for the challenge ciphertext ˆc1.
We mention some concrete differences: (i) the challenge ˆy is used to form the challenge ciphertext, ˆc1 = ˆy, ˆcT
2 = ˆyT ˆD1,
ˆ𝑐3 = ˆyT ˆd2+𝜉·𝑏, rather than coordinateℓ of the refresh ciphertext; (ii) accordinglyB programs A B B ˆD1− ˆC and
p B Bˆd2 using the challenge coins( ˆD1, ˆd2) (this is the programming of Hyb(𝑏)
8 , justified by Claim 5.34), and constructs
all𝜆 coordinates of ˆctref honestly under these programmed parameters using their own independent coins; and (iii)
B outputsA’s bit𝑏′, since here the quantity being bounded isA’s distinguishing advantage rather than Pr[Bad ˆ𝜹].
The random oracle is simulated as described above. The verification that ˆyT = ˆsTB+ ˆeT reproduces Hyb(𝑏)
8 and that
uniform ˆy reproduces Hyb(𝑏)
9 is verbatim as in Claim 5.27. □
Claim 5.36. Suppose𝑛≥ 𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,𝜎≥ log𝑚, and𝑞 is prime. Then, for all adversaries A and all
𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, the distributions Hyb(𝑏)
9 (A) and Hyb(𝑏)
10(A) are statistically indistinguishable.
Proof. The proof proceeds exactly as the proof of Claim 5.28, but performed for the tuple(A, p, ˆc2, ˆ𝑐3) of the challenge
ciphertext in place of(A, p, ˆc2,(ℓ), ˆ𝑐3,(ℓ)). □
Completing the proof. By definition, the challenger’s behavior in Hyb(𝑏)
10 is independent of the bit 𝑏∈{ 0, 1}.
Thus, Hyb(0)
10 and Hyb(1)
10 are identical experiments. Combining Claims 5.16 to 5.18 and 5.29 to 5.36, static security
now follows by a standard hybrid argument. □
57

Parameter instantiation. We conclude by describing one way to instantiate the parameters of Construction 5.10
to satisfy the requirements of Theorems 5.11, 5.14 and 5.15. Take any constant 0 < 𝜀 < 1 and choose the lattice
parameters(𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎) and the width parameter𝜎 such that
𝑛 = 𝜆1/𝜀 ; 𝑞 = 2Θ(𝜆) ; 𝑚 = 2(𝑛+ 1)⌈ log𝑞⌉ ; e𝜎 = poly(𝜆) ; 𝜎 = poly(𝜆) ; 𝔅 = 2𝜆
where𝑞 is prime, the constant in𝑞 = 2Θ(𝜆) is chosen large enough so that𝑞/log𝑞 > 2𝜆· poly(𝜆) (for instance, the
constant 2 is enough), and the(2𝑚2,𝜎)-decomposed LWE assumption holds with parameters(𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎). We now
affirm that this choice of parameters satisfies our requirements:
• Correctness:𝑛,𝑚,𝜎, e𝜎 = poly(𝜆), 𝔅≤ 2𝜆, and𝑞/log𝑞 > 2𝜆· poly(𝜆), so Theorem 5.11 is satisfied.
• Succinctness:𝑛,𝑚 = poly(𝜆) and𝑞≤ 2poly(𝜆), so Theorem 5.14 is satisfied.
• Security:𝑛≥𝜆,𝑚≥ 2(𝑛+ 1) log𝑞,𝜎≥ log𝑚,𝑞 is prime, 𝔅∈ 2𝜔(log𝜆), correctness holds, and the(2𝑚2,𝜎)-
decomposed LWE assumption with parameters(𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎) holds. Then, the matrix commitment scheme from
Fact 3.5 is secure and Theorem 5.15 is satisfied.
This instantiation relies on the polynomial hardness of the decomposed LWE assumption with a sub-exponential
modulus-to-noise ratio𝑞/e𝜎 = 2Θ(𝜆) = 2𝑂(𝑛𝜀). We summarize this instantiation with the following corollary:
Corollary 5.37 (Updatable DBE from Decomposed LWE). Assuming the polynomial hardness of the decomposed
LWE assumption (Assumption 3.3) with a sub-exponential modulus-to-noise ratio, Construction 5.10 is a statically
secure updatable distributed broadcast encryption scheme in the random oracle model.
6 Continuous Group Key Agreement from DBE
In this section, we define continuous group key agreement (CGKA), and give two constructions: one from IncDBE
which satisfies post-compromise security and is optimally efficient, and one from UpdDBE which satisfies both
post-compromise security and forward secrecy, but at the cost of computationally linear (in the group size) forward
secrecy updates.
6.1 Definition of Continuous Group Key Agreement
We first describe the syntax of CGKA, mostly following conventions from [ACDT20]. Users are identified with a
non-cryptographic ID (for example, their phone number or email), and set up their cryptographic public parameters
pp and secret state st by querying an Init algorithm (which may be defined with respect to a common reference
string crs). Groups are collections of users (specified by their ID and public parameters pp) that share knowledge
of an evolving secret key 𝐾. Each user maintains and updates their own secret state st as the group evolves via
the operations Add, Remove, PCRefresh, and FSRefresh. These operations produce messages that are processed
by current group members via the algorithm Process, or new members via the algorithm Join. We also maintain a
dictionary G that consists of all pairs (ID, pp) that are currently in the group. The formal syntax is given below.
• Setup(1𝜆)→ crs: The setup algorithm takes as input the security parameter1𝜆 and outputs a common reference
string crs.
• Init(crs, ID)→ pp, st: The initialize algorithm takes as input crs and an id ID and outputs public parameters
pp and secret state st.
• Add(st, ID, pp)→ st,𝐾,𝑚 : The add algorithm takes as input the state st of the invoking user, an id ID, and its
associated public parameters pp, and outputs an updated state st, an updated shared key𝐾, and a message𝑚.
• Remove(st, ID, pp)→ st,𝐾,𝑚 : The remove algorithm takes as input the state st of the invoking user, an id
ID, and its associated public parameters pp, and outputs an updated state st, an updated shared key𝐾, and
a message𝑚.
58

• PCRefresh(st)→ pp, st,𝐾,𝑚 : The post-compromise refresh algorithm takes as input the statest of the invoking
user and outputs updated public parameters pp, an updated state st, an updated shared key𝐾, and a message𝑚.
• FSRefresh(st, G)→ st,𝐾,𝑚, {ppID}ID∈G: The forward-secrecy refresh algorithm takes as input the state st of
the invoking user and the public information G associated with the current set of group members, and outputs
an updated state st, an updated shared key𝐾, a message𝑚, and updated public parameters for each member
of the group.
• Join(st,𝑚, G)→ st,𝐾 : The join algorithm takes as input the state st of a user who has just been added to the
group, a message𝑚, and the public information G associated with the current set of group members. It outputs
an updated state st and updated shared key𝐾.
• Process(st,𝑚)→ st,𝐾 :10 The process algorithm takes as input a statest and a message𝑚 which may be the result
of an Add, Remove, PCRefresh, or FSRefresh operation. It outputs an updated state st and updated shared key𝐾.
Correctness and security. Informally, correctness requires that after every “valid” sequence of adds and removes
(meaning that add operates on IDs not already in the group, while remove operates on IDs in the group) on “valid”
public parameters (meaning parameters that were output by Init), all parties after running Process (or Join, in the
case of a new user) on the message𝑚 will obtain the same value of𝐾.
Our notion of security follows the conventions of [ACDT20], although we differ slightly in that we do not allow the
adversary any network control at all. In particular, we consider selective and completely passive adversaries that may
leak the state st of any party at any time. However, we assume that all messages output by Add, Remove, PCRefresh,
and FSRefresh are always immediately broadcast to all parties, and we do not allow the adversary to tamper with
any messages or actively participate in the protocol (that is, they cannot sample their own(ID, pp) and request to be
added to the group). We further discuss our choice to consider passive adversaries and provide an explicit comparison
with the [ACDT20] security model at the end of this subsection.
However, we do allow the adversary to request that a user stop deleting old states, meaning its current state will
include all of its previous states back until when the “no-delete” flag was first set.
We now formally define the correctness and security games for CGKA. The games are specified by a set of oracles
that the adversary can call in order to drive the execution of group dynamics. The oracles call and store variables
in a set of arrays defined as follows.
• PP: The dictionary of all (ID→ public parameters) in the universe.
• ST: The dictionary of all (ID→ secret state) in the universe.
• G: The dictionary of all (ID→ public parameters) currently in the group.
• GMap: The dictionary of (epoch number→ group), which records the set G at each epoch number𝑡. This
will be updated implicitly in the games below.
• K: The dictionary of ((epoch number, ID)→ shared key).
• CH: The dictionary of (epoch number→ flag) where flag is a boolean value indicating whether the adversary
issued a challenge query during that epoch.
• D: The dictionary of (ID→ flag), where flag is a boolean value indicating whether the adversary has requested
that ID stop deleting its state.
The game begins by initializing each of the above to empty, initializing the epoch number 𝑡 = 0, sampling
crs← Setup(1𝜆), and sampling 𝑏 r← {0, 1}, which is the challenger’s bit for real-or-random challenges. Then
the adversary (on input crs) gets access to the following set of oracles.
• Init(ID)
10In one of our schemes, we will also have to allow Process to take G as input.
59

– Sample(pp, st)← Init(crs, ID).
– Add the entry PP[ID]→ pp.
– Add the entry ST[ID]→ st.
– Return pp.
• Add(ID, ID′)
– Require ID∈ G, ID′∈ PP\ G.
– 𝑡←𝑡+ 1.
– Run(st,𝐾,𝑚)← Add(ST[ID], ID′, PP[ID′]), add the entry K[𝑡, ID]→ 𝐾, and set ST[ID]→ st.
– Run(st,𝐾)← Join(ST[ID′],𝑚, G), add the entry K[𝑡, ID′]→ 𝐾, and set ST[ID′] = st.
– For all ID′′ ∈ G\{ ID}, run(st,𝐾) ←Process(ST[ID′′],𝑚), add the entry K[𝑡, ID′′] →𝐾, and set
ST[ID′′]→ st.
– Add the entry G[ID′]→ PP[ID′].
– Return𝑚.
• Remove(ID, ID′)
– Require ID, ID′∈ G.
– 𝑡←𝑡+ 1.
– Remove ID′ from G.
– Run(st,𝐾,𝑚)← Remove(ST[ID], ID′, PP[ID′]), add the entry K[𝑡, ID]→ 𝐾, and set ST[ID]→ st.
– For all ID′′ ∈ G\{ ID}, run(st,𝐾) ←Process(ST[ID′′],𝑚), add the entry K[𝑡, ID′′] →𝐾, and set
ST[ID′′]→ st.
– Return𝑚.
• PCRefresh(ID)
– Require ID∈ G.
– 𝑡←𝑡+ 1.
– Run(pp, st,𝐾,𝑚)← PCRefresh(ST[ID]), add the entry K[𝑡, ID]→ 𝐾, set PP[ID]→ pp, G[ID]→ pp,
and ST[ID]→ st.
– For all ID′ ∈ G\{ ID}, run (st,𝐾) ← Process(ST[ID′],𝑚), add the entry K[𝑡, ID′] →𝐾, and set
ST[ID′]→ st.
– Return pp,𝑚 .
• FSRefresh(ID)
– Require ID∈ G.
– 𝑡←𝑡+ 1.
– Run(st,𝐾,𝑚, {ppID}ID∈G)← FSRefresh(ST[ID], G), add the entry K[𝑡, ID]→ 𝐾, and set ST[ID]→ st.
– For each ID∈ G, set PP[ID]→ ppID and G[ID]→ ppID.
– For all ID′ ∈ G\{ ID}, run(st,𝐾) ←Process(ST[ID′],𝑚, G), add the entry K[𝑡, ID′] →𝐾, and set
ST[ID′]→ st.
– Return𝑚.
• NoDel(ID)
60

– Require ID∈ G.
– Set D[ID] = 1.11
• Corrupt(ID)
– Require ID∈ G.
– Return ST[ID].
• Challenge(𝑡)
– Require CH[𝑡] = 0.
– Set CH[𝑡] = 1.
– Set𝐾0 = K[𝑡, ID], where ID is arbitrary such that there exists an entry(𝑡, ID)∈ K.
– Set𝐾1
r←{ 0, 1}𝜆.
– Return𝐾𝑏.
Next, we formally define correctness.
Definition 6.1 (CGKA Correctness). CGKA is correct if for all adversariesA interacting in the CGKA game, it holds
that for all(𝑡, ID),(𝑡, ID′)∈ K, K[𝑡, ID] = K[𝑡, ID′].
Security of CGKA is defined with respect to some notion of what constitutes an admissible sequence of oracle
queries. We formulate two definitions of admissible queries, one that captures only post-compromise security (PCS),
and one that additionally captures forward secrecy (FS) (and is thus more permissive).
In the definitions, we make use of two functions:
• q2e(𝑞) takes as input a query𝑞 and outputs the value of𝑡 (epoch number) at the end of the query.
• e2q(𝑡) takes as input an epoch number𝑡 and outputs the query𝑞 that increments𝑡− 1 to𝑡.
First, following the PCS definition given in [ACDT20], we demand that between any corrupt and challenge query,
there is either a PCRefresh query, or the user is no longer in the group when the challenge query is made.
Definition 6.2 (Admissible Queries: PCS). A sequence of queries(𝑞1,...,𝑞 ℓ) in the CGKA security game with PCS
is admissible if for any𝑖,𝑗 ∈[ ℓ] such that𝑞𝑖 = Corrupt(ID) and𝑞𝑗 = Challenge(𝑡), it holds that q2e(𝑞𝑖) <𝑡 and
either (i) there exists a𝑘 with q2e(𝑞𝑖) < q2e(𝑞𝑘)≤ 𝑡 such that𝑞𝑘 = PCRefresh(ID), or (ii) ID ∉ GMap(𝑡).
Next, we allow for corruption queries after challenges, as long as there is a FSRefresh directly after the challenge.
Definition 6.3 (Admissible Queries: PCS + FS). A sequence of queries(𝑞1,...,𝑞 ℓ) in the CGKA security game with
PCS + FS is admissible if for any𝑖,𝑗 ∈[ ℓ] such that𝑞𝑖 = Corrupt(ID) and𝑞𝑗 = Challenge(𝑡):
• If q2e(𝑞𝑖) < 𝑡, either (i) there exists a 𝑘 with q2e(𝑞𝑖) < q2e(𝑞𝑘)≤ 𝑡 such that𝑞𝑘 = PCRefresh(ID), or (ii)
ID ∉ GMap(𝑡).
• q2e(𝑞𝑖) ≠𝑡.
• If q2e(𝑞𝑖) >𝑡, then e2q(𝑡+ 1) = FSRefresh(·) and there does not exist any𝑘≤𝑡 such that𝑞𝑘 = NoDel(ID).
Finally, security is defined as follows.
Definition 6.4 (CGKA Security). CGKA is secure with respect to a set of admissible queries (say, Definition 6.2 or
Definition 6.3) if for any sequence(𝑞1,...,𝑞 ℓ) of admissible queries and any PPT adversaryA making such queries,
it holds that  Pr[A( crs)→ 𝑏]− 1
2
 = negl(𝜆),
where crs is the common reference string sampled at the beginning of the game and 𝑏 is the real-or-random bit
sampled at the beginning of the game.
11If this flag is set to 1, the dictionary entry ST[ID] will append the new state to the old state rather than override the old state (whenever it
is updated as a result of other oracle queries). However, we leave this implicit (as in [ACDT20]) to avoid notational clutter.
61

Efficiency. We say that a CGKA scheme without forward secrecy is optimally efficient if there is a fixed polynomial
𝑝(𝜆) that bounds the run-time of each ofSetup, Init, Add, Remove, PCRefresh, and Process, independent of the current
size of the group. That is, the only operation that may depend on the size of the group is Join. This is in some sense
inherent, if we consider reading the description of the group to be a part of the algorithm that users run to join the
group. Formally, we consider the following definition.
Definition 6.5 (CGKA Optimal Efficiency). CGKA is optimally efficient if there is a fixed polynomial𝑝(𝜆) such that
for all adversariesA interacting in the CGKA game, each call to Init, Add, Remove, PCRefresh, and Process runs in
time at most𝑝(𝜆).
Discussion: on passive security and comparison with [ACDT20]. As mentioned earlier, we model the ad-
versary in our CGKA game as completely passive, meaning that it does not have the ability to craft maliciously
generated messages on behalf of the participants or take any control over the network that is responsible for delivering
messages. This is in the same spirit as the CGKA model of [ACDT20], which assumes honestly crafted messages
and an honest delivery ordering, though our formulation is slightly more restrictive in that honest messages are
immediately broadcast to all current group members.
We stress that passive CGKA security is still a demanding primitive: The adversary may learn honest users’ secret
states over the lifetime of the group and the security notion captures recovery from such compromises. Moreover,
the black-box lower bound of [BDG+22] already holds in a passive security model. Thus, our construction gives the
first plausibly practical proposal for CGKA with provable worst-case efficiency beyond what is possible for black-box
PKE-based schemes.
We remark that the security of CGKA against active adversaries has some history of study in the “TreeKEM”
paradigm (e.g., see [AJM22] and references therein), and extending the security of our DBE paradigm to active
adversaries remains an important direction for future work. To begin with, we briefly discuss the original CGKA
security model of [ACDT20], which does allow for some very limited active participation by the adversary. In
particular, while the adversary cannot craft messages on behalf of the parties, it does have some limited control over
the network that delivers the messages. At a high level, they allow the adversary to see all messages output by the
participants (as we do), and in addition make the following decisions on behalf of the network: (1) Drop messages:
The adversary can block the delivery of any add, remove, or refresh operation; and (2) Delay messages: The adversary
can wait until a later time to deliver an add, remove, or refresh operation to any given party, but they cannot deliver
two messages to the same party in the wrong order.
We expect that our protocol remains secure against this particular type of active behavior, which we briefly justify
below, but we leave the formalization of this claim and extension to security against more powerful active adversaries
to future work.
• First, the ability to drop messages allows the adversary to observe add, remove, and refresh operations from
several parties and then pick one to send to other parties and the rest to drop. However, since add, remove, and
refresh messages can be computed usingpublic information in our scheme (in particular, theapk of the underlying
DBE scheme), these extra messages can all be simulated by an adversary participating in our passive game.
• Next, delaying messages should not provide the adversary any more information than it has in our passive
game. In particular, suppose that the adversary leaks the state of party ID at some epoch𝑡. If the adversary is
allowed to delay messages, then there may be some other parties that have not received some update messages
yet and therefore may be at some epoch𝑡′ <𝑡, and there may also be some other parties that have received
some future update messages already and therefore may be at some epoch𝑡′′ >𝑡. However, these discrepancies
do not affect the state of party ID at epoch𝑡, so the adversary will still see exactly the same state.
6.2 CGKA with PCS from Incremental DBE
Theorem 6.6. IncDBE (Definition 4.1) implies CGKA satisfying correctness (Definition 6.1), security with respect
to the PCS set of admissible queries (Definitions 6.2 and 6.4), and optimal efficiency (Definition 6.5).
62

Proof. Let(IncDBE.Setup, IncDBE.KeyGen, IncDBE.IncPK, IncDBE.IncSK, IncDBE.Enc, IncDBE.Dec) be any incre-
mental DBE for encrypting multi-bit messages (see Remark 4.8). We construct a CGKA scheme from IncDBE
by sampling and broadcasting new keys𝐾 after each Add, Remove, and PCRefresh. Our PCRefresh algorithm simply
has the user remove itself (using its “old” public parameters pp), sample new public parameters pp′ by calling Init,
and then add itself back (using its “new” public parameters pp′). The formal scheme is as follows.12
• Setup(1𝜆): Run pp← IncDBE.Setup(1𝜆) and output crs B pp.
• Init(crs, ID): Sample 𝑖 r←[ 2𝜆], run(pk, sk)← IncDBE.KeyGen(crs,𝑖), set apk B⊥, ask B sk,𝐾 B⊥, and
output
pp B(𝑖, pk), st B(ID, pp, apk, ask,𝐾).
• Add(st, ID, pp): Parse st =(ID′, pp′, apk, ask′,𝐾) and pp =(𝑖, pk). Run the following algorithms.
– apk← IncDBE.IncPK(apk,(𝑖, pk), Add).
– ask′← IncDBE.IncSK(ask′,(𝑖, pk), Add).
– Sample𝐾 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and run ct← IncDBE.Enc(apk,𝐾).
– Output
st B(ID′, pp′, apk, ask′,𝐾), 𝐾, 𝑚 B(Add,𝑖, pk, apk, ct).
• Remove(st, ID, pp): Parse st =(ID′, pp′, apk, ask′,𝐾) and pp =(𝑖, pk). Run the following algorithms.
– apk← IncDBE.IncPK(apk,(𝑖, pk), Remove).
– ask′← IncDBE.IncSK(ask′,(𝑖, pk), Remove).
– Sample𝐾 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and run ct← IncDBE.Enc(apk,𝐾).
– Output
st′ B(ID′, pp′, apk, ask′,𝐾), 𝐾, 𝑚 B(Remove,𝑖, pk, apk, ct).
• PCRefresh(st): Parse st =(ID, pp, apk, ask,𝐾).
– Run(st,𝐾,𝑚 1)← Remove(st, ID, pp).
– Sample𝑖′ r←[ 2𝜆], run(pk′, sk′)← IncDBE.KeyGen(crs,𝑖′), pp′ B(𝑖′, pk′).
– Set st B(ID, pp′,⊥, sk′,⊥).
– Run(st,𝐾,𝑚 2)← Add(st, ID, pp′).
– Output
pp′, st, 𝐾, 𝑚 B(𝑚1,𝑚 2).
• Join(st,𝑚, G): Parse st =(ID, pp,⊥, ask,⊥) and𝑚 =(Add,𝑖, pk, apk, ct).
– For(ID𝑗,(𝑗, pk𝑗))∈ G, run ask← IncDBE.IncSK(ask,(𝑗, pk𝑗), Add).
– Output
st B(ID, pp, apk, ask,𝐾), 𝐾.
• Process(st,𝑚): Parse st =(ID, pp, apk, ask,𝐾). We have three cases, depending on whether𝑚 is the result of
an Add, Remove, or PCRefresh.
– Add:
∗ Parse𝑚 =(Add,𝑖, pk, apk′, ct).
∗ ask← IncDBE.IncSK(ask,(𝑖, pk), Add).
∗ 𝐾← IncDBE.Dec(ask, ct).
12While all IncDBE algorithms additionally take the common reference string crs as input, we suppress this to avoid notational clutter.
63

∗ Output
st B(ID, pp, apk′, ask,𝐾), 𝐾.
– Remove:
∗ Parse𝑚 =(Remove,𝑖, pk, apk′, ct).
∗ ask← IncDBE.IncSK(ask,(𝑖, pk), Remove).
∗ 𝐾← IncDBE.Dec(ask, ct).
∗ Output
st B(ID, pp, apk′, ask,𝐾), 𝐾.
– PCRefresh:
∗ Parse𝑚 =(( Remove,𝑖, pk, apk1, ct1),(Add,𝑖′, pk′, apk2, ct2)).
∗ ask← IncDBE.IncSK(ask,(𝑖, pk), Remove).
∗ ask← IncDBE.IncSK(ask,(𝑖′, pk′), Add).
∗ 𝐾← IncDBE.Dec(ask, ct2).
∗ Output
st B(ID, pp, apk2, ask,𝐾), 𝐾.
Now, we show that given any sequence(𝑞1,...,𝑞 ℓ) of admissible queries according to Definition 6.2 and any PPT
adversaryA such that  Pr[A( crs)→ 𝑏]− 1
2
 = non-negl(𝜆),
there exists an adversaryB with non-negl(𝜆) advantage in the Incremental DBE security game (Definition 4.6). By
a standard hybrid argument, it suffices to consider sequences(𝑞1,...,𝑞 ℓ) with exactly one Challenge query. Let𝑡
be the epoch number that is input to the Challenge query, and let𝑞∗ = e2q(𝑡) be the query to Add, Remove, or
PCRefresh that increments𝑡− 1 to𝑡
We defineB as follows. It maintains an (initially empty) map Keys: 𝑗→( 𝑖, pk, sk), an (initially empty) map
ID : ID→ (𝑖, pk, ask), an (initially empty) set G of ID, and variables APK and K. We will sometimes refer to
the three values of Keys[𝑗] and ID[ID] as Keys[𝑗]1, Keys[𝑗]2, Keys[𝑗]3, and ID[ID]1, ID[ID]2, ID[ID]3, respec-
tively. Let𝑇 be the total number of Init and PCRefresh queries among(𝑞1,...,𝑞 ℓ), equivalently the number of
times that the Init algorithm is run. Let 𝑇∗⊆ [𝑇] be the subset of 𝑗 ∈ [𝑇] such that the 𝑗’th call to Init results
in public parameters pp such that there exists a Corrupt(ID) query where pp is associated with ID at the time
of this query. This can be determined by inspecting the sequence (𝑞1,...,𝑞 ℓ). B begins by doing the follow-
ing.
For 𝑗∈[𝑇]:
• Sample𝑖 r←[ 2𝜆], query KeyGen(𝑖) and receive pk.
• If 𝑗∈𝑇∗, query Corrupt(𝑖), receive sk, and add 𝑗→( 𝑖, pk, sk) to Keys.
• Otherwise, add 𝑗→( 𝑖, pk,⊥) to Keys.
Next,B will answerA’s queries as follows, setting counter 𝑗 = 1.
For𝑞∈[ 𝑞1,...,𝑞 ℓ]:
• If𝑞 = Init(ID):
– Parse Keys[𝑗] as(𝑖, pk, sk). Add ID→( 𝑖, pk, sk) to ID.
– Return(𝑖, pk).
– Increment 𝑗← 𝑗+ 1.
64

• If𝑞 = Add(ID, ID′):
– Add ID′ to G. Parse ID[ID′] =(𝑖′, pk′, sk′). Query Update(𝑖′, Add) and receive apk.
– For all ID′′∈ G such that ID[ID′′]3 ≠⊥:
∗ Let ask B ID[ID′′]3.
∗ ask← IncDBE.IncSK(ask,(𝑖′, pk′), Add).
∗ Set ID[ID′′]3 B ask.
– If𝑞 ≠𝑞∗, sample𝐾 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and run ct← IncDBE.Enc(apk,𝐾).
– If𝑞 =𝑞∗, sample𝐾,𝐾′ r←{ 0, 1}𝜆, query Challenge(𝐾,𝐾′) and receive ct.
– Set APK B apk, K B𝐾, and return𝑚 B(Add,𝑖′, pk′, apk, ct).
• If𝑞 = Remove(ID, ID′):
– Remove ID′ from G. Parse ID[ID′] =(𝑖′, pk′, ask′). Query
Update(𝑖′, Remove) and receive apk.
– For all ID′′∈ G such that ID[ID′′]3 ≠⊥:
∗ Let ask B ID[ID′′]3.
∗ ask← IncDBE.IncSK(ask,(𝑖′, pk′), Remove).
∗ Set ID[ID′′]3 B ask.
– If𝑞 ≠𝑞∗, sample𝐾 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and run ct← IncDBE.Enc(apk,𝐾).
– If𝑞 =𝑞∗, sample𝐾,𝐾′ r←{ 0, 1}𝜆, query Challenge(𝐾,𝐾′) and receive ct.
– Set APK B apk, K B𝐾, and return𝑚 B(Remove,𝑖′, pk′, apk, ct).
• If𝑞 = PCRefresh(ID):
– Parse ID[ID] =(𝑖, pk, ask) and Keys[𝑗] as(𝑖′, pk′, sk′).
– Increment 𝑗← 𝑗+ 1.
– Set ID[ID] B(𝑖′, pk′, sk′).
– Query Update(𝑖, Remove) and receive apk1.
– For all ID′′∈ G such that ID[ID′′]3 ≠⊥:
∗ Let ask B ID[ID′′]3.
∗ ask← IncDBE.IncSK(ask,(𝑖, pk), Remove).
∗ Set ID[ID′′]3 B ask.
– Sample𝐾 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and run ct1← IncDBE.Enc(apk1,𝐾).
– Query Update(𝑖′, Add) and receive apk2.
– For all ID′′∈ G such that ID[ID′′]3 ≠⊥:
∗ Let ask B ID[ID′′]3.
∗ ask← IncDBE.IncSK(ask,(𝑖′, pk′), Add).
∗ Set ID[ID′′]3 B ask.
– If𝑞 ≠𝑞∗, sample𝐾 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and run ct2← IncDBE.Enc(apk2,𝐾).
– If𝑞 =𝑞∗, sample𝐾,𝐾′ r←{ 0, 1}𝜆, query Challenge(𝐾,𝐾′) and receive ct2.
– Set APK B apk2, K B𝐾, and return
pp B(𝑖′, pk′), 𝑚 B(( Remove,𝑖, pk, apk1, ct1),(Add,𝑖′, pk′, apk2, ct2)).
• If𝑞 = Corrupt(ID):
65

– Parse ID[ID] =(𝑖, pk, ask).
– Return st B(ID,(𝑖, pk), APK, ask, K).13
At this point,B has answered all ofA’s queries, and it forwardsA’s output𝑏′ as its own output. By construction,
we have that whenB’s challenger has input𝑏, the induced view ofA is identical to its view in the real CGKA game
with bit𝑏. Indeed, whenB’s challenger has input𝑏 = 0, the shared CGKA key at epoch𝑡 is𝐾, and𝐾 is the output of
Challenge. When𝑏 = 1, the shared CGKA key at epoch𝑡 is𝐾′, but𝐾 (which is independently sampled) is the output
of Challenge. Thus, it remains to confirm thatB is an admissible adversary according to Definition 6.2, which can
be argued as follows.
First, note that by construction,B makes all Corrupt queries to its challenger at the very beginning, i.e., not during
the Post-challenge phase. So it remains to check that the set{ID[ID]1 : ID∈ G} for G at epoch𝑡 (corresponding
to the set of counters associated with the challenge ciphertext in the IncDBE security game) has no intersection with
𝑇∗ (corresponding to the setC of corrupted counters in the IncDBE security game). BecauseA is admissible, it holds
that for all𝑖∈{ ID[ID]1 : ID∈ G},𝑖 has not been previously corrupted. Indeed, if ID was previously corrupted, there
must have been more recently a PCRefresh(ID) query that sampled a fresh and uncorrupted(𝑖, pk). Finally, it also
holds that𝑖 will not be corrupted later, since Corrupt queries are not allowed after𝑡. □
6.3 CGKA with PCS + FS from Updatable DBE
In this section, we show how to use an updatable distributed broadcast encryption scheme (Section 5) to construct
a CGKA scheme with post-compromise security and forward security.
Theorem 6.7. UpdDBE (Definition 5.1) implies CGKA satisfying correctness (Definition 6.1) and security with
respect to the PCS + FS set of admissible queries (Definitions 6.3 and 6.4). Efficiency of all algorithms matches that
of the construction from Section 6.2, except that FSRefresh (which was not previously defined) and Process for an
FSRefresh query are both linear in the group size.
Proof. Note that UpdDBE has the same syntax as IncDBE except for two new algorithms UpdDBE.UpdPK and
UpdDBE.UpdSK. The construction is mostly the same as the construction from Section 6.2 (with the UpdDBE
algorithms replacing the analogous IncDBE algorithms), except that we add an FSRefresh algorithm along with a
branch in Process for processing FSRefresh messages. Other than the new algorithms, the only difference is that st
additionally contains an entry for sk (in addition to ID, pp, apk, ask,𝐾 ).
The new algorithms are defined as follows.
• FSRefresh(st, G):
– Parse st =(ID, pp =(𝑖, pk), sk, apk, ask,𝐾).
– Let𝑆 be the set of 𝑗 such that there exists ID such that(ID,(𝑗, pk𝑗))∈ G.
– Run(ctref, apk,𝑆)← UpdDBE.UpdPK(apk,𝑆) and set pk =𝑆[𝑖].
– Run(ask, pk, sk,𝑆)← UpdDBE.UpdSK(ask, ctref,𝑆, pk, sk).
– Sample𝐾 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and run ct← UpdDBE.Enc(apk,𝐾).
– Output
st =(ID,(𝑖, pk), sk, apk, ask,𝐾), 𝐾, 𝑚 =(FSRefresh,𝑖, pk, apk, ctref, ct), {ID,(𝑗,𝑆[𝑗])} ID∈G.
• FSRefresh branch of Process(st,𝑚, G):
– Parse st =(ID, pp =(𝑖, pk), sk, apk, ask,𝐾) and𝑚 =(FSRefresh,𝑖, pk, apk, ctref, ct).
– Let𝑆 be the set of 𝑗 such that there exists ID such that(ID,(𝑗, pk𝑗))∈ G.
13If D[ID] = 1,B will actually return a history of states including all of the ask back until when the no-delete flag was first set. This sequence
is possible forB to compute starting from the initial sk associated with ID that it received from its Corrupt query.
66

– Run(ask, pk, sk,𝑆)← UpdDBE.UpdSK(ask, ctref,𝑆, pk, sk).
– Run𝐾← UpdDBE.Dec(ask, ct).
– Output
st =(ID,(𝑖, pk), sk, apk, ask,𝐾), 𝐾.
Now, we show that given any sequence(𝑞1,...,𝑞 ℓ) of admissible queries according to Definition 6.3 and any PPT
adversaryA such that  Pr[A( crs)→ 𝑏]− 1
2
 = non-negl(𝜆),
there exists an adversaryB with non-negl(𝜆) advantage in the updatable DBE security game (Definition 5.9). By
a standard hybrid argument, it suffices to consider sequences(𝑞1,...,𝑞 ℓ) with exactly one Challenge query. As-
sume that there exist𝑖,𝑗 ∈[ ℓ] with𝑞𝑖 = Corrupt(ID),𝑞𝑗 = Challenge(𝑡) and q2e(𝑞𝑖) >𝑡, as otherwise security
reduces to the PCS-only case analyzed in Section 6.2. Let 𝑡 be the epoch number that is input to the Challenge
query, let𝑞∗
𝑡 = e2q(𝑡) be the query to Add, Remove, PCRefresh, or FSRefresh that increments𝑡− 1 to𝑡, and let
𝑞∗
𝑡+1 = e2q(𝑡+ 1) be the query to FSRefresh that increments𝑡 to𝑡+ 1 (we know this is a query to FSRefresh by
admissibility and our assumption).
We defineB as follows. It maintains an (initially empty) map Keys: 𝑗→( 𝑖, pk, sk), an (initially empty) map
ID : ID→( 𝑖, pk, sk, ask), an (initially empty) set G of ID, and variables APK and K. We will sometimes refer to the
three values of Keys[𝑗] as Keys[𝑗]1, Keys[𝑗]2, Keys[𝑗]3, and the four values ofID[ID] as ID[ID]1, ID[ID]2, ID[ID]3,
ID[ID]4. Let𝑇 be the total number of Init and PCRefresh queries among(𝑞1,...,𝑞 ℓ), equivalently the number of
times that the Init algorithm is run. Let 𝑇∗⊆[ 𝑇] be the subset of 𝑗∈[ 𝑇] such that the 𝑗’th call to Init results in
public parameters pp with the following property: There exists a Corrupt(ID) query before𝑞∗
𝑡+1 such that pp is
associated with ID at the time of this query. This can be determined by inspecting the sequence(𝑞1,...,𝑞 ℓ).B begins
by doing the following.
For 𝑗∈[𝑇]:
• Sample𝑖 r←[ 2𝜆], query KeyGen(𝑖) and receive pk.
• If 𝑗∈𝑇∗, query Corrupt(𝑖), receive sk, and add 𝑗→( 𝑖, pk, sk) to Keys.
• Otherwise, add 𝑗→( 𝑖, pk,⊥) to Keys.
Next,B will answerA’s queries as follows, setting counter 𝑗 = 1.
For𝑞∈[ 𝑞1,...,𝑞 ∗
𝑡+1]:
• If𝑞 = Init(ID):
– Parse Keys[𝑗] as(𝑖, pk, sk). Add ID→( 𝑖, pk, sk, sk) to ID.
– Return(𝑖, pk).
– Increment 𝑗← 𝑗+ 1.
• If𝑞 = Add(ID, ID′):
– Add ID′ to G. Parse ID[ID′] =(𝑖′, pk′, sk′, ask′).
– Query Update(𝑖′, Add) and receive apk. If ask′ ≠⊥, then Update also returns ask𝑖′ and set ID[ID′]4 B
ask𝑖′.
– For all ID′′∈ G\{ ID′} such that ID[ID′′]4 ≠⊥:
∗ Let ask B ID[ID′′]4.
∗ ask← UpdDBE.IncSK(ask,(𝑖′, pk′), Add).
∗ Set ID[ID′′]4 B ask.
67

– If𝑞 ≠𝑞∗
𝑡 , sample𝐾 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and run ct← UpdDBE.Enc(apk,𝐾).
– If𝑞 =𝑞∗
𝑡 , sample𝐾,𝐾′ r←{ 0, 1}𝜆, query Challenge(𝐾,𝐾′) and receive ct.
– Set APK B apk, K B𝐾, and return𝑚 B(Add,𝑖′, pk′, apk, ct).
• If𝑞 = Remove(ID, ID′):
– Remove ID′ from G. Parse ID[ID′] =(𝑖′, pk′, sk′, ask′). Query Update(𝑖′, Remove) and receive apk.
– For all ID′′∈ G such that ID[ID′′]4 ≠⊥:
∗ Let ask B ID[ID′′]4.
∗ ask← UpdDBE.IncSK(ask,(𝑖′, pk′), Remove).
∗ Set ID[ID′′]4 B ask.
– If𝑞 ≠𝑞∗
𝑡 , sample𝐾 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and run ct← UpdDBE.Enc(apk,𝐾).
– If𝑞 =𝑞∗
𝑡 , sample𝐾,𝐾′ r←{ 0, 1}𝜆, query Challenge(𝐾,𝐾′) and receive ct.
– Set APK B apk, K B𝐾, and return𝑚 B(Remove,𝑖′, pk′, apk, ct).
• If𝑞 = PCRefresh(ID):
– Parse ID[ID] =(𝑖, pk, sk, ask) and Keys[𝑗] as(𝑖′, pk′, sk′).
– Increment 𝑗← 𝑗+ 1.
– Set ID[ID] B(𝑖′, pk′, sk′, sk′).
– Query Update(𝑖, Remove) and receive apk1.
– For all ID′′∈ G such that ID[ID′′]4 ≠⊥:
∗ Let ask B ID[ID′′]4.
∗ ask← UpdDBE.IncSK(ask,(𝑖, pk), Remove).
∗ Set ID[ID′′]4 B ask.
– Sample𝐾 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and run ct1← UpdDBE.Enc(apk1,𝐾).
– Query Update(𝑖′, Add) and receive apk2.
– For all ID′′∈ G such that ID[ID′′]4 ≠⊥:
∗ Let ask B ID[ID′′]4.
∗ ask← UpdDBE.IncSK(ask,(𝑖′, pk′), Add).
∗ Set ID[ID′′]4 B ask.
– If𝑞 ≠𝑞∗
𝑡 , sample𝐾 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and run ct2← UpdDBE.Enc(apk2,𝐾).
– If𝑞 =𝑞∗
𝑡 , sample𝐾,𝐾′ r←{ 0, 1}𝜆, query Challenge(𝐾,𝐾′) and receive ct2.
– Set APK B apk2, K B𝐾, and return
pp B(𝑖′, pk′), 𝑚 B(( Remove,𝑖, pk, apk1, ct1),(Add,𝑖′, pk′, apk2, ct2)).
• If𝑞 = FSRefresh(ID):
– If𝑞 = 𝑞∗
𝑡+1, run the Refresh phase to receive(ctref, apk) and immediately query Reveal to receive
apk,{sk𝑖, ask𝑖}𝑖∈{ Keys[1]1,...,Keys[𝑇]1}. Exit the loop with all information needed to complete the game.
Otherwise, continue.
– Parse ID[ID′] =(𝑖′, pk′, sk′, ask′). Query Update(𝑖′, Refresh) and receive(ctref, apk).
– Let𝑆 be the set of 𝑗 such that there exists ID such that(ID,(𝑗, pk𝑗))∈ G.
– For all ID′′∈ G such that ID[ID′′]4 ≠⊥:
∗ Let(pk, sk, ask) B ID[ID′′]2, ID[ID′′]3, ID[ID′′]4.
68

∗ ask, pk, sk,𝑆← UpdDBE.UpdSK(ask, ctref,𝑆, pk, sk).
∗ Set ID[ID′′]2 B pk, ID[ID′′]3 B sk, ID[ID′′]4 B ask.
– If𝑞 ≠𝑞∗
𝑡 , sample𝐾 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and run ct← UpdDBE.Enc(apk,𝐾).
– If𝑞 =𝑞∗
𝑡 , sample𝐾,𝐾′ r←{ 0, 1}𝜆, query Challenge(𝐾,𝐾′) and receive ct.
– Set APK B apk, K B𝐾, and return
𝑚 B(FSRefresh,𝑖′, pk′, apk, ctref, ct).
• If𝑞 = Corrupt(ID):
– Parse ID[ID] =(𝑖, pk, sk, ask).
– Return st B(ID,(𝑖, pk), sk, APK, ask, K).14
At this point,B has queried Reveal and thus knows ask𝑖 for all𝑖 currently in the group. This information allows
it to respond to all ofA’s future queries in a straightforward manner. Finally, it receives and forwardsA’s output
𝑏′ as its own output.
By construction, we have that whenB’s challenger has input𝑏, the induced view ofA is identical to its view
in the real CGKA game with bit𝑏. Indeed, whenB’s challenger has input𝑏 = 0, the shared CGKA key at epoch𝑡 is𝐾,
and𝐾 is the output of Challenge. When𝑏 = 1, the shared CGKA key at epoch𝑡 is𝐾′, but𝐾 (which is independently
sampled) is the output of Challenge. Thus, it remains to confirm thatB is an admissible adversary according to
Definition 6.3, which can be argued as follows.
BecauseA is admissible, the group G at epoch𝑡 is such that for all𝑖∈{ ID[ID]1 : ID∈ G} (corresponding to
the set of counters associated with the challenge ciphertext in the UpdDBE security game),𝑖 has not been previously
corrupted. Indeed, if ID was previously corrupted, there must have been more recently a PCRefresh(ID) query that
sampled a fresh and uncorrupted(𝑖, pk). Moreover, again by admissibility, there cannot be any Corrupt queries
during epoch𝑡, meaning there cannot be a Corrupt query after𝑞∗
𝑡 (whenB issues Challenge) through𝑞∗
𝑡+1 (after
whichB issues Reveal). Thus, no ID∈ G can be corrupted after epoch𝑡. This confirms that the set of counters
associated withB’s challenge ciphertext and its setC of corrupted counters in theUpdDBE game do not intersect. □
Acknowledgments
We acknowledge the use of Claude for copy-editing and for tightening the formal exposition. David J. Wu is supported
by NSF CNS-2140975, CNS-2318701, a Sloan Fellowship, a Microsoft Research Faculty Fellowship, a Google Research
Scholar Award, an Amazon Research Award, and a gift from the Stellar Development Foundation. This work was
done in part while the authors were visiting the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing, supported in part
by a grant from the UC Noyce Initiative. Yevgeniy Dodis was partially supported by a gift from Google.
References
[AAB+24] Michael Anastos, Benedikt Auerbach, Mirza Ahad Baig, Miguel Cueto Noval, Matthew Kwan, Guillermo
Pascual-Perez, and Krzysztof Pietrzak. The cost of maintaining keys in dynamic groups with applications
to multicast encryption and group messaging. In TCC, 2024.
[ABB10] Shweta Agrawal, Dan Boneh, and Xavier Boyen. Efficient lattice (H)IBE in the standard model. In
EUROCRYPT, 2010.
[ABG+25] Joël Alwen, Chris Brzuska, Jérôme Govinden, Patrick Harasser, and Stefano Tessaro. Succinct PPRFs
via memory-tight reductions. In CRYPTO, 2025.
14If D[ID] = 1,B will actually return a history of states including all of the ask back until when the no-delete flag was first set. This sequence
is possible forB to compute starting from the initial sk associated with ID that it received from its Corrupt query.
69

[ACDT20] Joël Alwen, Sandro Coretti, Yevgeniy Dodis, and Yiannis Tselekounis. Security analysis and improvements
for the IETF MLS standard for group messaging. In CRYPTO, 2020.
[ACDT21] Joël Alwen, Sandro Coretti, Yevgeniy Dodis, and Yiannis Tselekounis. Modular design of secure group
messaging protocols and the security of MLS. In ACM CCS, 2021.
[ACEP25] Benedikt Auerbach, Miguel Cueto Noval, Boran Erol, and Krzysztof Pietrzak. Continuous group-key
agreement: Concurrent updates without pruning. In CRYPTO, 2025.
[AFM24] Joël Alwen, Georg Fuchsbauer, and Marta Mularczyk. Updatable public-key encryption, revisited. In
EUROCRYPT, 2024.
[AFMR25] Joël Alwen, Georg Fuchsbauer, Marta Mularczyk, and Doreen Riepel. Lattice-based updatable public-key
encryption for group messaging. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch., 2025, 2025.
[AJM22] Joël Alwen, Daniel Jost, and Marta Mularczyk. On the insider security of MLS. In CRYPTO, 2022.
[AMR25] Damiano Abram, Giulio Malavolta, and Lawrence Roy. Key-homomorphic computations for RAM: fully
succinct randomised encodings and more. In CRYPTO, 2025.
[BBR+23] Richard Barnes, Benjamin Beurdouche, Raphael Robert, Jon Millican, Emad Omara, and Katriel
Cohn-Gordon. The messaging layer security (MLS) protocol. RFC, 9420, 2023.
[BDG+22] Alexander Bienstock, Yevgeniy Dodis, Sanjam Garg, Garrison Grogan, Mohammad Hajiabadi, and Paul
Rösler. On the worst-case inefficiency of CGKA. In TCC, 2022.
[BDR20] Alexander Bienstock, Yevgeniy Dodis, and Paul Rösler. On the price of concurrency in group ratcheting
protocols. In TCC, 2020.
[BDT22] Alexander Bienstock, Yevgeniy Dodis, and Yi Tang. Multicast key agreement, revisited. In CT-RSA, 2022.
[BGI+01] Boaz Barak, Oded Goldreich, Russell Impagliazzo, Steven Rudich, Amit Sahai, Salil P. Vadhan, and
Ke Yang. On the (im)possibility of obfuscating programs. In CRYPTO, 2001.
[BR93] Mihir Bellare and Phillip Rogaway. Random oracles are practical: A paradigm for designing efficient
protocols. In ACM CCS, 1993.
[BZ14] Dan Boneh and Mark Zhandry. Multiparty key exchange, efficient traitor tracing, and more from
indistinguishability obfuscation. In CRYPTO, 2014.
[CCG+18] Katriel Cohn-Gordon, Cas Cremers, Luke Garratt, Jon Millican, and Kevin Milner. On ends-to-ends
encryption: Asynchronous group messaging with strong security guarantees. In ACM CCS, 2018.
[CGI+99] Ran Canetti, Juan A. Garay, Gene Itkis, Daniele Micciancio, Moni Naor, and Benny Pinkas. Multicast
security: A taxonomy and some efficient constructions. In IEEE INFOCOM, 1999.
[CHW25] Jeffrey Champion, Yao-Ching Hsieh, and David J. Wu. Registered ABE and adaptively-secure broadcast
encryption from succinct LWE. In CRYPTO, 2025.
[CW24] Jeffrey Champion and David J. Wu. Distributed broadcast encryption from lattices. In TCC, 2024.
[CW26] Jeffrey Champion and David J. Wu. Distributed monotone-policy encryption for DNFs from lattices.
In EUROCRYPT, 2026.
[DKW21] Yevgeniy Dodis, Harish Karthikeyan, and Daniel Wichs. Updatable public key encryption in the standard
model. In TCC, 2021.
[DRS04] Yevgeniy Dodis, Leonid Reyzin, and Adam D. Smith. Fuzzy extractors: How to generate strong keys
from biometrics and other noisy data. In EUROCRYPT, 2004.
70

[FWW23] Cody Freitag, Brent Waters, and David J. Wu. How to use (plain) witness encryption: Registered ABE,
flexible broadcast, and more. In CRYPTO, 2023.
[GHMR18] Sanjam Garg, Mohammad Hajiabadi, Mohammad Mahmoody, and Ahmadreza Rahimi. Registration-based
encryption: Removing private-key generator from IBE. In TCC, 2018.
[GKPW24] Sanjam Garg, Dimitris Kolonelos, Guru-Vamsi Policharla, and Mingyuan Wang. Threshold encryption
with silent setup. In CRYPTO, 2024.
[GLWW23] Rachit Garg, George Lu, Brent Waters, and David J. Wu. Realizing flexible broadcast encryption: How
to broadcast to a public-key directory. In ACM CCS, 2023.
[GPV08] Craig Gentry, Chris Peikert, and Vinod Vaikuntanathan. Trapdoors for hard lattices and new
cryptographic constructions. In STOC, 2008.
[HLP22] Calvin Abou Haidar, Benoît Libert, and Alain Passelègue. Updatable public key encryption from DCR:
efficient constructions with stronger security. In ACM CCS, 2022.
[HLWW23] Susan Hohenberger, George Lu, Brent Waters, and David J. Wu. Registered attribute-based encryption.
In EUROCRYPT, 2023.
[HPS23] Calvin Abou Haidar, Alain Passelègue, and Damien Stehlé. Efficient updatable public-key encryption
from lattices. In ASIACRYPT, 2023.
[JMM19] Daniel Jost, Ueli Maurer, and Marta Mularczyk. Efficient ratcheting: Almost-optimal guarantees for
secure messaging. In EUROCRYPT, 2019.
[KMW23] Dimitris Kolonelos, Giulio Malavolta, and Hoeteck Wee. Distributed broadcast encryption from bilinear
groups. In ASIACRYPT, 2023.
[KRS15] Dakshita Khurana, Vanishree Rao, and Amit Sahai. Multi-party key exchange for unbounded parties
from indistinguishability obfuscation. In ASIACRYPT, 2015.
[Reg05] Oded Regev. On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryptography. In STOC, 2005.
[SDFV+25] David Soler, Carlos Dafonte, Manuel Fernández-Veiga, Ana Fernández Vilas, and Francisco J Nóvoa.
Experimental analysis of efficiency of the messaging layer security for multiple delivery services. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2502.18303, 2025.
[Wee24] Hoeteck Wee. Circuit ABE with poly(depth,𝜆)-sized ciphertexts and keys from lattices. In CRYPTO, 2024.
[Wee25] Hoeteck Wee. Almost optimal KP and CP-ABE for circuits from succinct LWE. In EUROCRYPT, 2025.
[WQZD10] Qianhong Wu, Bo Qin, Lei Zhang, and Josep Domingo-Ferrer. Ad hoc broadcast encryption. In ACM
CCS, 2010.
[WW25] Hoeteck Wee and David J. Wu. Unbounded distributed broadcast encryption and registered ABE from
succinct LWE. In CRYPTO, 2025.
[WW26] Brent Waters and David J. Wu. Silent threshold cryptography from pairings: Expressive policies in the
plain model. In EUROCRYPT, 2026.
71

A Zeroizing Attack Against a Candidate Updatable DBE Construction
This section demonstrates that a candidate updatable DBE construction that uses a common refresh shift across all
users admits a zeroizing attack. At a high level, the attack exploits the fact that applying the same update vector to
every user preserves linear relations between different users’ keys and local states. As a result, an adversary can
take differences of ciphertext components across two users to eliminate the fresh encryption randomness and expose
linear structure in the underlying LWE error.
More concretely, the refresh procedure shifts every public key by the same value B∆. While this appears
innocuous—and indeed preserves correctness—it has the unintended consequence that pairwise differences of public
keys, secret vectors, and opening information remain invariant across refresh. Combined with the linear structure
of the encryption algorithm, this invariance allows an adversary to form carefully chosen linear combinations of
ciphertext components in which all terms involving the secret s cancel, leaving only a publicly computable low-norm
linear function of the LWE error vector e.
Construction A.1 (Common-Shift Variant). Let𝜆 be a security parameter and(𝑛,𝑚,𝑞, e𝜎) be LWE parameters (which
are functions of𝜆). Let𝜎 be a Gaussian width parameter and 𝔅 be a bound parameter. Let ˆ𝑚 = 4𝑚5 and𝜉 =⌊𝑞/2⌋.
Let(Setupcom, Com, Ver, Open) denote the algorithms of the sparse matrix commitment scheme from Fact 3.5, and let
𝐻 :{0, 1}𝜆→{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚 be a hash function that is modeled as a random oracle [BR93]. We construct a candidate updatable
distributed broadcast encryption schemeΠ =(Setup, KeyGen, IncPK, IncSK, Enc, Dec, UpdPK, UpdSK) as follows. The
construction coincides with Construction 5.10 except that the refresh algorithms evaluate 𝐻 on the seed 𝜹 alone
(rather than on the pair(𝜹,𝑖)), so that all group members are shifted by the same value; we color this change in green.
• Setup(1𝜆): On input the security parameter𝜆, the setup algorithm samples the matrix commitment parameters
ppcom =(W, R, B)← Setupcom(1𝜆), together with A r← Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 and p r← Z𝑛
𝑞. It outputs pp =(ppcom, A, p).
• KeyGen(pp,𝑖): On input the public parameters pp =(ppcom, A, p) where ppcom =(W, R, B) and an index
𝑖∈[ 2𝜆], the key-generation algorithm samples r𝑖
r←{0,..., 𝔅− 1} ˆ𝑚 and computes the verification vector
v𝑖 = Ver(ppcom,𝑖). It then defines the public key t𝑖 B Br𝑖+ p− Av𝑖 ∈ Z𝑛
𝑞 and the initial local opening
ez𝑖 B Open(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖,𝑖), where u𝑖 is the𝑖th standard basis vector. It outputs the public key pk𝑖 = t𝑖 and
the secret key sk𝑖 =(𝑖, r𝑖,ez𝑖).
• IncPK(pp, apk,(𝑖, pk𝑖), op): On input the public parameters pp = (ppcom, A, p), an aggregate public key
apk = eC∈ Z𝑛×𝑚
𝑞 (where we interpret apk =⊥ to be the all-zeroes matrix), a public key pk𝑖 = t𝑖 for user𝑖, and
an operation op∈{ Add, Remove}, the public-update algorithm computes the commitment
C(𝑖) = Com(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖).
If op = Add, it outputs apk′ = eC+ C(𝑖). If op = Remove, it outputs apk′ = eC− C(𝑖).
• IncSK(pp, ask𝑖∗,(𝑖, pk𝑖), op): On input the public parameters pp = (ppcom, A, p), an aggregate secret key
ask𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗), a public key pk𝑖 = t𝑖 for user𝑖, and an operation op∈{ Add, Remove}, the private-update
algorithm proceeds as follows:
– If𝑖∗ =𝑖, it returns ask𝑖∗ unchanged. Otherwise, it computes the local opening
z(𝑖,𝑖∗) = Open(ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t𝑖,𝑖∗).
– If op = Add, it outputs ask′
𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗+ z(𝑖,𝑖∗)).
– If op = Remove, it outputs ask′
𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗− z(𝑖,𝑖∗)).
• Enc(pp, apk,𝜇): On input the public parameters pp =(ppcom, A, p) where ppcom =(W, R, B), an aggregate
public key apk = eC, and a message𝜇∈{ 0, 1}, the encryption algorithm samples
s r← Z𝑛
𝑞, e←D ˆ𝑚
Z,e𝜎, D1
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚×𝑚, d2
r←{ 0, 1} ˆ𝑚.
72

If∥e∥≥
√
𝜆e𝜎, it resets e = 0 ˆ𝑚. It then outputs the ciphertext ct =(c1, c2,𝑐 3) where
cT
1 = sTB+ eT, cT
2 = sT(A+ eC)+ eTD1, 𝑐 3 = sTp+ eTd2+𝜉·𝜇.
• Dec(pp, ask𝑖∗, ct): On input the public parameterspp =(ppcom, A, p), an aggregate secret keyask𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗),
and a ciphertext ct =(c1, c2,𝑐 3), the decryption algorithm computes the verification vector v𝑖∗ = Ver(ppcom,𝑖∗)
and outputs
𝜇′ =⌊𝑐3+ cT
1(r𝑖∗−ez𝑖∗)− cT
2v𝑖∗⌉2.
• UpdPK(pp, apk,𝑆): On input the public parameters pp =(ppcom, A, p), an aggregate public key apk = eC, and
a mapping𝑆 from the index of each group member to their public key, the algorithm samples 𝜹 r←{ 0, 1}𝜆 and
computes the common shift 𝚫 =𝐻(𝜹), which is applied to every group member. For all𝑗∈[ 𝜆], it computes
ctref(𝑗)← Enc(pp, apk,𝛿𝑗) where𝛿𝑗 is the𝑗 th component of vector 𝜹. Let ctref =  ctref(1),..., ctref(𝜆)
. Then,
for each𝑖∈𝑆, let t𝑖 =𝑆[𝑖] and set𝑆′[𝑖] = t𝑖+ B𝚫. Compute
apk′ =
∑︁
𝑖∈𝑆
Com  ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗( t𝑖+ B𝚫)
and output(ctref, apk′,𝑆′).
• UpdSK(pp, ask𝑖∗, ctref,𝑆, pk𝑖∗, sk𝑖∗): On input the public parameters pp =(ppcom, A, p), an aggregate secret key
ask𝑖∗ =(𝑖∗, r𝑖∗,ez𝑖∗), a ciphertext ctref =  ctref(1),..., ctref(𝜆)
 where ctref(𝑗) =  c1,(𝑗), c2,(𝑗),𝑐 3,(𝑗)
, a mapping
𝑆 of user indices to public keys, and a public key pk𝑖∗ = t𝑖∗ together with a secret key sk𝑖∗ =  𝑖∗, r𝑖∗, z(𝑖∗,𝑖∗)
 for
user𝑖∗, the private-refresh algorithm proceeds as follows. Compute the verification vector v𝑖∗ = Ver(ppcom,𝑖∗)
and, for each 𝑗∈[ 𝜆],
𝛿𝑗 =⌊𝑐3,(𝑗)+ cT
1,(𝑗)(r𝑖∗−ez𝑖∗)− cT
2,(𝑗)v𝑖∗⌉2,
and set 𝜹 =(𝛿1,...,𝛿 𝜆)∈{ 0, 1}𝜆. For each 𝑖∈ 𝑆, write t𝑖 = 𝑆[𝑖] (in particular t𝑖∗ = 𝑆[𝑖∗] = pk𝑖∗), compute
𝚫 =𝐻(𝜹), and set
t′
𝑖 B t𝑖+ B𝚫 and 𝑆′[𝑖] B t′
𝑖.
Output(ask′
𝑖∗, pk′
𝑖∗, sk′
𝑖∗,𝑆′), where
pk′
𝑖∗ = t′
𝑖∗,
ask′
𝑖∗ =
 
𝑖∗, r𝑖∗+ 𝚫,
∑︁
𝑖∈𝑆
Open  ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗ t′
𝑖, 𝑖∗
!
,
sk′
𝑖∗ =  𝑖∗, r𝑖∗+ 𝚫, Open  ppcom, uT
𝑖∗⊗ t′
𝑖∗, 𝑖∗ .
As described, the refresh algorithms in Construction A.1 require time that is linear in the size of the group. However,
with further optimization, it is possible to compute the aggregated key˝
𝑖∈𝑆 Com  ppcom, uT
𝑖⊗( t𝑖+ B𝚫) in sublinear
time. Nevertheless, we show below an attack strategy which demonstrates that the scheme above is insecure.
Linear-cancellation attack from common shifts. We sketch an attack that exploits the fact that the refresh
uses a single common shift ∆ =𝐻(𝛿) so that pk′
𝑖− pk𝑖 = B∆ is identical for all𝑖∈𝑆.
Fix two distinct users𝑖 = 1, 2 that remain active across a refresh, and letv1 B Ver(ppcom, 1) and v2 B Ver(ppcom, 2).
Let the adversary obtain both secret keys (or equivalently, the corresponding decryption capabilities) for these two
users after refresh. From UpdSK it holds that the difference of secret vectors shifts in a known way:
r′
1− r′
2 =(r1+ ∆)−( r2+ ∆) = r1− r2,
and similarly pk′
1− pk′
2 = pk1− pk2 since both add B∆.
Consider a challenge encryption ct =(cT
1, cT
2,𝑐 3) produced under the aggregated key eC, where (writing 𝑐1,𝑐 2
explicitly)
cT
1 = sTB+ eT, cT
2 = sT(A+ eC)+ eTD1.
73

Forming the cancellation. Define the following publicly computable linear forms of the challenge ciphertext:
𝐿1 B cT
1(r1− r2)− cT
1(ez1−ez2), 𝐿 2 B cT
2(v1− v2).
Expanding and using Eq. (3.2),
𝐿2 =  sT(A+ eC)+ eTD1
(v1− v2)
= sTA(v1− v2) +sTeC(v1− v2) +eTD1(v1− v2)
= sTA(v1− v2) +sT(t1− Bez1− t2+ Bez2) + eTD1(v1− v2)
= sTA(v1− v2) +sT(Br1− Av1− Br2+ Av2) + sTB(ez2−ez1) +eTD1(v1− v2)
= sTB(r1− r2) +sTB(ez2−ez1) +eTD1(v1− v2).
On the other hand,
𝐿1 =(sTB+ eT)( r1− r2)−( sTB+ eT)(ez1−ez2).
Subtracting cancels the sTB terms and we are left with
𝐿2−𝐿1 = eTD1(v1− v2) +eT(ez1−ez2) −eT(r1− r2). (A.1)
The only remaining unknown contribution in (A.1) is an explicit linear structure in the LWE error :
eT

D1(v1− v2)+( ez1−ez2)−( r1− r2)

.
At a high level, this violates the intended forward-secrecy intuition: the refresh randomness ∆ does not “decorrelate”
users, so taking differences across two users lets an adversary cancel the sTB(·) component and obtain additional
linear information about e that should remain hidden. Once linear information on short vectors is known, the error
vector e may be recoverable and lead to a concrete distinguishing strategy in the forward-secrecy security game.
74