On the Worst-Case Ineﬃciency of CGKA
Alexander Bienstock ∗ Yevgeniy Dodis † Sanjam Garg ‡ Garrison Grogan §
Mohammad Hajiabadi ¶ Paul Rösler †
September 18, 2022
Abstract
Continuous Group Key Agreement (CGKA) is the basis of modern Secure Group Messaging
(SGM) protocols. At a high level, a CGKA protocol enables a group of users to continuously
compute a shared (evolving) secret while members of the group add new members, remove other
existing members, and perform state updates. The state updates allow CGKA to oﬀer desirable
security features such as forward secrecy and post-compromise security.
CGKA is regarded as a practical primitive in the real-world. Indeed, there is an IETF
Messaging Layer Security (MLS) working group devoted to developing a standard for SGM
protocols, including the CGKA protocol at their core. Though known CGKA protocols seem
to perform relatively well when considering natural sequences of performed group operations,
there are no formal guarantees on their eﬃciency, other than theO(n) bound which can be
achieved by trivial protocols, wheren is the number of group numbers. In this context, we ask
the following questions and provide negative answers.
1. Can we have CGKA protocols that are eﬃcient in the worst case?We start by answering
this basic question in the negative. First, we show that a natural primitive that we
call Compact Key Exchange (CKE) is at the core of CGKA, and thus tightly captures
CGKA’s worst-case communication cost. Intuitively, CKE requires that: ﬁrst,n users
non-interactively generate key pairs and broadcast their public keys, then, some other
special user securely communicates to thesen users a shared key. Next, we show that
CKE with communication costo(n) by the special usercannot be realized in a black-box
manner from public-key encryption, thus implying the same for CGKA, wheren is the
corresponding number of group members.
An extended abstract [10] of this article appears in the proceedings of TCC 2022.
∗New York University,abienstock@cs.nyu.edu
†New York University,dodis@cs.nyu.edu. Partially supported by gifts from VMware Labs and Algorand Foun-
dation, and NSF grants 1815546 and 2055578.
‡UC Berkeley and NTT Research,sanjamg@berkeley.edu. This research is supported in part by DARPA under
Agreement No. HR00112020026, AFOSR Award FA9550-19-1-0200, NSF CNS Award 1936826, and research grants
by the Sloan Foundation, and Visa Inc. Any opinions, ﬁndings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in
this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reﬂect the views of the United States Government or
DARPA.
§garrisonwgrogan@gmail.com
¶University of Waterloo, mdhajiabadi@uwaterloo.ca. Work supported by an NSERC Discovery Grant
RGPIN/03270-2022.
†New York University,paul.roesler@cs.nyu.edu
1

2. Can we realize one CGKA protocol that works as well as possible in all cases?Here again,
we present negative evidence showing that no such protocol based on black-box use of
public-key encryption exists. Speciﬁcally, we show two distributions over sequences of
group operations such that no CGKA protocol obtains optimal communication costs on
both sequences.
1 Introduction
Secure Group Messaging (SGM) platforms such as Signal Messenger, Facebook Messenger, What-
sApp, etc., are used by billions of people worldwide. SGM has received lots of attention recently,
including from the IETF Messaging Layer Security (MLS) working group [8], which is creating
an eponymous standard for SGM protocols. While these protocols’ security properties are well
documented, understanding theireﬃciency properties remains a central research question.
Continuous Group Key Agreement (CGKA) is at the core of SGM protocols. First formalized
in [3], CGKA allows a group of users to continuously compute a shared (evolving) symmetric key.
This shared group key is re-computed as users asynchronously add (resp. remove) others to (resp.
from) the group, as well as execute periodic state refreshes. CGKA provides very robust security
guarantees: it not only requires privacy of group keys from non-members, including the facilitating
delivery server (which users send CGKA ciphertexts to, in case other group members are oﬄine),
but much more. Even in the event of a state compromise in which a user’s secret state is leaked
to an adversary, group keys should shortly become private again through ordinary protocol state
refreshes. Furthermore, in face of such a state compromise, past group keys should remain secure.
The former security requirement is referred to aspost-compromise security(PCS), while the latter
is referred to asforward secrecy(FS).
Ideally, for use in practice, CGKA protocols should use simple, well-established, and eﬃcient
cryptographic primitives and haveO(logn) communication per operation (or at most sub-linear),
wherenis the number of group members. Indeed, many CGKA protocols in the literature described
belowclaimtohave“fair-weather”O(logn)communication, meaningthatwhenconditionsare good,
communication cost per operation isO(logn). Such informal claims have pleased practitioners and
supported their beliefs that CGKA can be used in the real-world. However, no such formal eﬃciency
guarantees, nor any non-trivial deﬁnitions of suchgood conditions have ever been established.
Indeed, as elaborated upon below, there are no formal analyses showing that a CGKA protocol can
do any better than the trivialO(n) communication cost per operation, on any non-trivial sequence
of operations.
CGKA protocols in the literature. Many CGKA protocols have been introduced in the
literature to provide the above security properties. The largest portion of these are based on a
basic tree structure, as in the Asynchronous Ratchet Tree (ART) protocol [22] and the TreeKEM
family of protocols [3, 9, 6, 5, 4, 11, 1], the simplest of which is currently used in MLS [8]. Most of
these tree-based protocols are of the same approximate form (although they have slightly diﬀerent
eﬃciency proﬁles; see [6] for a comparison based on simulations): each node contains a Public Key
Encryption (PKE) key pair, users are assigned to the leaves and only store the secret keys on the
path from their leaf to the root, and the root is the group secret. When a user executes an operation,
they refresh the secret keys along the path(s) of one (or more) leaves to the root, encrypting these
secrets to the siblings along the path(s). Thus, invery speciﬁcgood conditions, communication can
2

easily be seen to beO(logn). However, due to PCS requirements (elaborated on below), the trees
in all of these protocols may periodicallydegrade, resulting inΩ(n) communication complexity in
the worst case, even amortized over many operations.
Instead of using a tree structure, Weidneret al. suggest using pairwise channels of the Con-
tinuous Key Agreement scheme derived from the famous two-party Signal Secure Messaging pro-
tocol [36, 30, 2, 21, 32, 14, 18]. However, this trivial construction of course requiresΩ(n) commu-
nication per operation.
In summary, all known CGKA protocols (based on public-key encryption) achieve the same
worst-case eﬃciency as the trivial protocol.
1.1 Our Results
In this paper, we work towards understanding the possible eﬃciency guarantees thatany CGKA
protocol can achieve in the worst-case, i.e., in cases when the conditions arenot good. We start by
asking the following question:
Can we construct a CGKA protocol that does better than the trivial CGKA protocol in the
worst-case?
We provide a negative answer to the above question. In particular, we show that every CGKA
(from PKE) has large Ω(n) worst-case communication cost. Although one can hope that this
worst-case will not occur often in practice, until there are better, well-deﬁned assumptions on the
structure of operation sequences under which practitioners hope that good eﬃciency bounds can
be proven, there is always a danger of bad eﬃciency in some cases. As the ﬁrst step of this lower
bound, we show that a natural primitive which we callCompact Key Exchange(CKE) is at the core
of CGKA, and in fact tightly captures the worst-case communication cost of CGKA. The heart of
our negative result is then a black-box separation showing that PKE are insuﬃcient for eﬃciently
realizing CKE. Finally, using the above equivalence, we translate this result into the aforementioned
lower bound on CGKA.
Given that no CGKA protocol can be eﬃcient in the worst case, we ask:
Can we realize one CGKA protocol that works as well as possible in all cases?
Here again, we present negative evidence showing that no such protocol based on black-box use
of PKE exists. Speciﬁcally, we show two distributions over sequences of group operations such that
no single CGKA protocol making only black-box use of PKE obtains optimal communication costs
on both sequences. That is, any CGKA protocol which acts well on one distribution of operations
must have much worseΩ(n) communication cost on the other distribution; otherwise, it violates
our CKE lower bound.
1.2 Compact Key Exchange
To prove our CGKA lower bound, we ﬁrst isolate and deﬁneCompact Key Exchange(CKE), a
novel primitive that captures one type of scenario that results in large CGKA communication.
CKE is related to Multi-Receiver Key Encapsulation Mechanisms [34]. It involvesn users who
each non-interactively broadcasts a public key, and another special user who sends thosen users
an encryption of a symmetric key, which only then users can decrypt. As explained below, we will
show that CKE isequivalent to CGKA, in terms of worst-case communication complexity.
3

1.3 Standard Security of Continuous Group Key Agreement
Our CGKA lower bound focuses on the eﬃciency ramiﬁcations of post-compromise security (PCS).
The standard form of PCS required for CGKA in the literature [3, 6, 22, 1] is in fact quite strong.
Informally, it requires the following two properties:
1. Double-join prevention.A malicious user may memorize randomness used in operations they
execute. If they are removed from the group at a later time, they must be prevented from
using this memorized randomness tore-join the group without invitation.
2. Resilience to randomness leakage.An honest user’s malfunctioning device may continuously
leak randomness which the user samples for CGKA operations (e.g., due to implementation
ﬂaws or an installed virus). Once the leakage is stopped (due to updating the implementation
or removing the virus) and the user performs a state update, the adversary must be prevented
from using the previously leaked randomness to obtain future group secrets.
Thus, once a user is removed, all group secrets should be independent of any randomness sampled
by them. Similarly, if a user executes a state refresh, all new group secrets should be independent
of any randomnesspreviously sampled by them.
We emphasize that while the two properties above are rather strong, weakening PCS to exclude
them (i.e., where we assume randomness is never leaked and securely deleted after each operation)
yields many trivial CGKA protocols (from any PKE) withO(logn) worst-case communication. For
example, one can simply use Tainted TreeKEM (TTKEM) [6]without taints.1 In all these protocols
honest parties need to sample secrets for other parties, and are then trusted to delete them once
communicated (encrypted) to these other parties. Clearly, most real-world implementations should
not be comfortable with this level of trust, and should especially strive for property 1 above instead.
Indeed, from very early on in the MLS standardization initiative, requiring property 1 was deemed
important2 and ultimately prioritized over eﬃciency3 in the version of TreeKEM used by MLS [8,
§13.1]. This protocol, as well as other existing protocols, such as TTKEM, explicitly prevent
double-joins (e.g., by sometimesblanking or tainting nodes that are not on the path to the root
from the leaf of a user that is executing an operation) at great eﬃciency cost;Ω(n) in the worst-
case. Moreover, even though property 2 may seem especially strong, all CGKA deﬁnitions in the
literature require both properties [3, 6, 22, 1], and our lower bound holds for both (in isolation).
Nevertheless, we leave it as an interesting topic for future work to study what kind of eﬃciency
guarantees can be obtained in a more restricted setting, where property 2 is not required.
1.4 Equivalence of CKE and CGKA Worst-Case Communication Complexity
The ﬁrst step in proving ourΩ(n) CGKA lower bound (from PKE) is showing that CKE and
CGKA with the standard PCS notion detailed above are equivalent, both in terms of implication
and worst-case communication complexity. It is important to note that in all our deﬁnitions of CKE
and CGKA, we specify the weakest correctness and security requirements under which our lower
1We give a more detailed summary of TTKEM in Appendix F.
2First proposal of the TreeKEM design with a discussion about the double-join problem:https://mailarchive.
ietf.org/arch/msg/mls/e3ZKNzPC7Gxrm3Wf0q96dsLZoD8/
3Proposal to prevent double-joins in TreeKEM, resulting in linear complexity in the worst-case: https:
//mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/mls/Zzw2tqZC1FCbVZA9LKERsMIQXik/
4

bounds hold. This onlystrengthens our lower bound. For example, we only consider non-adaptive,
passive adversaries.
CKEisattheCoreofCGKA. InSection3, weshowthatCGKAimpliesCKEandfurthermore
that the worst-case communication complexity of CKE from black-box PKE lower bounds that of
CGKA from the same primitives. The intuition is as follows. Consider a CGKA group withn
members at a certain time during its lifetime. To ensure that our lower bound is meaningful, we
allow for any sequence of operations to be executed up until this point. Now, consider the situation
in which userA adds k new users. If the CGKA protocol only uses PKE, then each added user
only stores secrets (besides their own) that were generated by userA.4 If userB removes userA
as the next operation, then due to PCS, every secret which thek added users shared with any of
the current group members cannot be re-used; userA must have generated all of them and thus
could potentially (maliciously) re-join the group without being added if one of the secrets is reused.
Thus, as part of the remove operation, userB must communicate the new group key to each of the
other k added users, with only the knowledge of their (independent) public keys. This is exactly
the setting of CKE. Indeed ifk = Ω(n), and additionally we can show that the ciphertext size for
CKE must beΩ(n), then we can show the same for when userB removes userA in CGKA above.
Furthermore, if userC then removes userB, we are in the same situation again, and thus this
ciphertext must also beΩ(n). We can repeat this scenarioad inﬁnitum, where after a user executes
a remove in the sequence, they add a new user, such that even amortized over a long sequence of
operations, the communication cost isΩ(n). We in fact further generalize this result in Section 3
to intuitively show that ifαusers add thek new users then execute𝓁rounds of sequential state
refreshes, the combined communication cost of each round isΩ(k).
A bit more formally, we show how to construct CKE fork users from CGKA in a manner such
that if the CGKA ciphertext is small for the above operation and the CGKA protocol only uses
PKE in a black-box manner, then the corresponding CKE ciphertext is small, contradicting our
lower bound for CKE, discussed below.
Diﬀerence from lower bound of [11].It is important to mention that our CGKA communica-
tion complexity lower bound already holds for fully synchronous, non-concurrent CGKA executions.
Hence, the lower bound by Bienstocket al.[11] that uses symbolic proof techniques to show a com-
munication lower bound for concurrently initiated operations in CGKA executions (with required
fast PCS recovery5) is entirely independent with respect to our employed methods and resulting
statement.
CKE tightly implies CGKA. For completeness, in Appendix E we also show that one can
use CKE to construct a CGKA protocol where the worst-case communication complexity of the
CGKA protocol is proportional to that of the used CKE protocol. The CGKA protocol simply lets
the user, executing a given CGKA operation, run the CKE algorithm of the special CKE user to
communicate a fresh group key to the public keys of all current CGKA group members. Therefore,
4Note: for any CGKA protocol, it could be that each of the addedk users may share secrets with all of the current
group members, derived from non-interactive key exchange using key-bundles stored on a server. However, these
shared secrets are only between pairs of users, and thus do not seem useful for establishing the group secret (since
secure communication between pairs of users can already be achieved via PKE).
5Unlike in [1] who circumvent the [11] lower bound by allowing for slower PCS recovery.
5

CGKA and CKE are surprisingly equivalent in terms of both cryptographic strengthand worst-
case (communication) complexity; f one could construct CKE eﬃciently, they could also construct
CGKA eﬃciently, and vice versa.
1.5 Black-Box Compact Key Exchange Lower Bound
InordertoprovetheCGKAlowerboundsdiscussedabove, weneedalowerboundontheunderlying
CKE primitive. Therefore, in Section 4, we prove a black-box separation showing that all CKE
protocols that make black-box use of public-key encryption (PKE) require the ciphertext sent from
the special user to then users to have sizeΩ(n), irrespective of the sizes of the public keysthat
the n users have sent to the special user. Our impossibility holds even if the scheme comes with
a CRS, of arbitrary size. Ruling out schemes that allow for a CRS will help us with our CGKA
lower bounds.
Intuitively, since then public keys are generated independently from each other, our result
implies that there is no non-trivial “compression” operation that the special user can do to save over
the trivial protocol: choosing a key and separately encrypting the key to each user independently.
Relations to broadcast encryption. We note that the notion of CKE is incomparable to
that of broadcast encryption, at least in an ostensible sense. Recall that a broadcast encryption
scheme is a type of attribute-based encryption that allows for broadcasting a message to a subset of
users, in a way that the resulting ciphertext is compact. One crucial diﬀerence between broadcast
encryption and CKE is that under CKE, users have independent secret keys, while under broadcast
encryption, user secret keys are correlated, all obtained via a master secret key.
Relations to other black-box impossibility results. The work of Boneh et al. [15] shows
that identity-based encryption (IBE) is black-box impossible from trapdoor permutations (TDPs).
A striking similarity between IBE and CKE is that both deal with some form of compactness: that
of public parameters (PP) for IBE and of ciphertexts in CKE. The techniques of [15] crucially rely
on the number of identities being much larger than the number of queries required to generate a
public parameter. In our setting, this is no longer the case: the number of queries made by the
encryption algorithm to generate a compact ciphertext may be much larger thann, and hence the
techniques of [15] do not work in our setting. In addition, we allow the CRS to grow with the
number of identities.
Extensions and limitations of our impossibility results.We believe that out impossibility
should extend quite naturally to separate CKE from trapdoor permutations (TDPs), though we
have not worked out the details. Our impossibility results have no bearing on the base primitive
being used in a non-black-box way, and indeed by using strong tools such as indistinguishability
obfuscation (which inherently results in non-black-box constructions), one might be able to build
compact CKE.
Overview. Our impossibility result is proved relative to a random PKE oracleO := ( g, e, d).
We give an attack against any CKE protocol (CRSGen, Init, Comm, Derive) (Deﬁnition 4.2)
instantiated with O. To give some intuition about the attack, supposee is an encryption oracle,
whose output length (i.e., the ciphertext length) is suﬃciently larger than its input length (i.e.,
6

the length of(pk,m,r )). This in particular implies that in order to get a valid(pk,c )—one under
which there exists somem and r such that e(pk,m,r ) = c—one has to call the e oracle ﬁrst.
Now if a CKE ciphertext forn users has lengtho(n), this means that one can “embed” at most
o(n) valid e-ciphertexts intoC. Say the ciphertexts arec1,...,ct with corresponding public keys
pk1,..., pkt, wheret∈o(n). This means that we need at mostt eﬀective trapdoors (with respect to
O) to decryptC, namely the trapdoors that correspond to(pk1,..., pkt). Also, sinceC should be
decryptable by each user, the set of “eﬀective” trapdoors for each user (those required to decryptC)
should be a subset of all theset trapdoors. Now sincet =o(n), there exists a user whose eﬀective
trapdoors are a subset of all other users. But since the CKE secret keys for all users are generated
independently and with no correlations, if we run the CKE key generation algorithm many times,
we should be able to recover all the required trapdoors, for at least one user. This is the main idea
of the proof.
The above overview is overly simplistic, omitting many subtleties. For example, ane-ciphertext
that is decrypted may come from one of the public keysPK1,..., PKn (which can be arbitrarily
large), and not fromC itself. Second, the notion of “embedded ciphertexts” inC is not clear. We
will formalize all these subtleties in Section 4 and will give a more detailed overview there, after
establishing some notation.
New techniques. Our proofs introduce some techniques that may be of independent interest.
Firstly, our proofs involve oracle sampling steps (a technique also used in many other papers), but
one novel thing in our proofs is that we need to make sure that the sampled oracles do not contain
a certain set of query/response pairs. In comparison, prior oracle sampling techniques involve
choosing oracles that agree with a set of query/answer pairs. This technique of making certain
query/response pairs oﬀ-limits, and the implications proved, might ﬁnd applications in proving
other impossibility results. Moreover, our proofs use theorems about non-uniform attacks against
random oracles [23, 20] to argue that ano(n) CKE ciphertext cannot embedn ciphertexts; we ﬁnd
this connection novel.
In Section 4, we will give an overview (and the proof) for the restricted construction setting in
which oracle access is of the form(CRSGeng, Initg, Comme, Derived). This will capture most of
the ideas that go into the full proof. We will then give a proof for the general construction case in
Section C.
1.6 No Single Optimal CGKA Protocol Exists
In Section 5, we present another negative result for CGKA protocols that make black-box use of
PKE. Naturally, CGKA protocols proceed in an online manner such that users do not know which
operations will be executed next. Therefore, users have to make choices when executing operations
that may result in unnecessary communication. We leverage this situation to show that there
does not exist anysingle CGKA protocol that makes black-box use of PKE and that has optimal
communication costs for every sequence that may be executed. More speciﬁcally, for every CGKA
protocol Π, there exists some distribution of CGKA operationsSeq and some other CGKA protocol
Π′such that Π has much higher communication costs thanΠ′when executing Seq.
Our driving example is as follows: suppose again that starting with a CGKA group in arbitrary
state, k users are added by userA and remain oﬄine. Next,αusers (including userA) execute
state refreshes. In this case, some protocols might use a strategy which, through these state
refreshes, create and communicate extra redundant secrets for thek added users, while others
7

may use a strategy which simply relies on those secrets communicated by userA. For the former
strategy, if thek added users afterwards come online and execute their own state refreshes, then
the communication of these extra secrets will have been unnecessary, and a protocol which follows
the latter strategy will have much lower communication cost. However, for the latter strategy,
if one of theα−1 users, user j, who only communicated a small amount (o(k)) in their state
refresh thereafter remains oﬄine while the otherα−1 users execute rounds of sequential state
refreshes, then we know from what we prove in Section 3 that each of the rounds will haveΩ(k)
communication cost. This is intuitively because thek added users mostly share secrets with the
α−1 users excluding userj, and thus when theseα−1 users perform state refreshes, they must
re-communicate secrets to thek added users. On the other hand, a protocol that follows the former
strategy can have much lower communication cost if the state refresh ciphertext of userj alone was
large (Ω(k)). This is intuitively because thek added users still share enough secrets with userj,
so that when the otherα−1 users execute their state refreshes, they do not need to communicate
much new to the added users.
1.7 Lessons Learned for Practice
Our results show that the execution of a CGKA protocol causes impractical communication over-
head amongst the group members if (1) the CGKA protocol is built from PKE only, (2) the CGKA
protocol achieves the weakest accepted notion of security, and (3) group members of the protocol
execution initiate certain non-trivial operation sequences. We note that, on an intuitive level, PKE
are essentially the only building blocks of all practical CGKA constructions. Furthermore, all of the
non-trivial operation sequences employed for our lower bounds are legitimate, andcould happen
in practice. Consequently, impractical worst-case communication overheads seem to be inevitable.
However, in order to avoid such impractical communication overheads, one could (a) try to ﬁnd
suitable practical building blocksother than PKE to circumvent the lower bound, (b) lower the
security requirements for CGKA (which we strongly advise against!), or (c) identifyall problematic
operation sequences and then forbid their execution. We believe that (a) ﬁnding better construc-
tions and (c) identifying all such problematic operation sequences are interesting questions that
we leave open for future work. However, for (a), we emphasize that one would ultimately need to
circumvent our CKE lower bound. Although one may be able to do so using strong primitives such
as indistinguishability obfuscation (as in the multi-party non-interactive key exchange of [16]), we
view it as a challenging problem to do so frompractical tools other than PKE.
We provide some further consequences of our lower bound in practice below.
CGKA with two administrators. Many real-world SGM systems in production may impose
membership policies on users. That is, it could be that there are only a few “administrators” that
are allowed to add and remove others from the group, while everyone else can only update their state
and send messages. As shown by [12], for the setting in which there is only everone administrator,
CGKA boils down to the classical setting of Multicast Encryption [35, 37, 28, 17, 29, 33, 13].
Since there is only one administrator in Multicast,O(logn) communication complexity is easily
achieved even with security property 1 above [12] (however, security property 2 already results
in Ω(n) complexity for the administrator in Multicast). This is due to the fact that the sole
administrator is never removed and executes all operations; thus she can use a tree as in some of
the aforementioned CGKA protocols, and never allow it to degrade.
8

Therefore, a natural question is: In the setting of two administrators that can replace one
another with new administrators, and where only property 1, but not property 2, is required for
the administrators; can we retainO(logn) communication?6 One can observe that our above lower
bound answers this question in the negative. Indeed, there only ever need to be two administrators
in the group. If so, then as above, one administrator can addk users, then the second administrator
can replace the ﬁrst with a new third administrator, then the third administrator can replace the
second administrator, and so on. Thus, the jump from one to two administrators in the worst case
requires communication to increase fromO(logn) to Ω(n) per operation, if security property 1 (and
not 2) is required.
MLS propose-and-commit framework. The latest MLS protocol draft (version 14) [8], uses
the “propose-and-commit” framework for CGKA. In this framework, users can publish many mes-
sages thatproposediﬀerent group operations (adding/removing others or updating their state), and
a new group key is not established until some user subsequently publishes acommit message. The
motivation behind this design is to allow for greater concurrency of CGKA operations: In prior
drafts of MLS, users would attempt to establish a new group key with each operation. If many users
desired to execute an operation at the same time and published corresponding CGKA ciphertexts,
the delivery server would have to choose one such ciphertext to deliver to all group members (and
thus only one of the group operations would be executed). With propose-and-commit, the delivery
server still has to choose between commit messages, but many proposed group operations can be
combined inside a single commit.
We however observe that we can still apply our above CGKA lower bound to this framework.
Indeed, consider the scenario wherein one user (resp. administrator)A proposes to addk users,
then publishes a commit for these additions. Thereafter, some other user (resp. administrator)B
can replaceA in a new proposal, then publish a commit for this replacement. Again, replacements
can be repeated ad inﬁnitum, and it can easily be seen that each such commit will still cost
Ω(n) communication. Hence, our result of Section 3 naturally holds in the propose-and-commit
framework.
2 Deﬁnitions
In this section, we deﬁne syntax and non-adaptive, one-way notions of security for Continuous
Group Key Agreement and Compact Key Exchange. First, we introduce some notation.
Notation. For algorithmA,y←A(x;r) means thatA on inputx with randomnessr outputsy.
If r is not made explicit, it is assumed to be sampled uniformly at random, and we use notation
y←$ A(x). We will also use the notationx←$ X to denote uniformly random sampling from set
X. We will use dictionaries for our CGKA security game. The value stored with keyx in dictionary
D is denoted byD[x]. The statementD[∗]←v initializes a dictionaryD in which the default value
for each key isv.
6If neither administrator is removed, of courseO(logn) communication can be retained if they share a multicast
tree.
9

2.1 Continuous Group Key Agreement
In the simple, restricted form that we consider here,Continuous Group Key Agreement(CGKA)
allows a dynamic set of users to continuously establish symmetric group keys. For participating
in a group, a user ﬁrst generates a public key and a secret state via algorithmGen. With the
secret state, a user can add or remove users to or from a group via algorithmsAdd and Rem.
Furthermore, each user can update the secrets in their state from time to time to recover from
adversarial state corruptions via algorithmUp. We call the latter three actionsgroup operations.
After all users process a group operation via algorithmProc, they share the same group key. In
order to analyze themost eﬃcientform of CGKA, we assume a central bulletin boardB to which
public information on the current group structure is posted (initially empty). Thus, newly added
users can obtain the relevant information about the group (which intuitively may be of sizeΩ(n)
anyway, wheren is the current number of group members) fromB, instead of receiving it explicitly
from the adding user. Note: the MLS protocol speciﬁcation indeed suggests the added user can
obtain the group tree of the protocol (sizeΩ(n)) from a bulletin board (the delivery server) in this
manner [8].
In the following, the added user simply downloads theentire board. Of course, in practice, this
would be very ineﬃcient, but this only strengthens our lower bound on the amount of communica-
tion sent betweencurrent group members (as opposed to the amount of information retrieved from
the bulletin board by added users).
Deﬁnition 2.1.A Continuous Group Key Agreementscheme CGKA = (Gen, Add, Rem, Up,
Proc) consists of the following algorithms:7
• Gen is a PPT algorithm that outputs(ST, PK).
• Add is a PPT algorithm that takes in (ST, PK), where ST is the secret state of the user
invoking the algorithm andPK is the public key of the added user, and outputs(ST′,K,C ),
where ST′is the updated secret state of the invoking user,K is the new shared group key, and
C is the ciphertext that is sent to (and then processed by) the group members. For eﬃciency
purposes,C = (CG,CB) consists of a shareCG that is sent to all group membersdirectly and
a shareCB that is posted to the central bulletin boardB.
• Rem is a PPT algorithm that takes in (ST, PK), where ST is the secret state of the user
invoking the algorithm andPK is the public key of the removed user, and outputs(ST′,K,C )
as above.
• Up is a PPT algorithm that takes in secret stateST of the user invoking the algorithm and
outputs (ST′,K,C ) as above.
• Proc is a deterministic, polynomial time algorithm that takes in(ST,CG), where ST is the
secret state of the user invoking the algorithm andCG is the ciphertextdirectly received for an
operation, and outputs updated state and group key(ST′,K ). For users that were just added
to the group,Proc additionally takes in bulletin boardB. If the operation communicated via
C removes the processing user from the group,K is set to a special symbol⊥.
7For the sake of comprehensible communication analysis, we do not provide an explicitCreate(ST, PK1,..., PKn)
algorithm (for which in practice,Ω(n) ciphertext size could be tolerated). Instead, we require the group creator to
one-by-one add PK1,...PKn, which allows us to prove a more meaningful lower bound on justAdd, Rem, and Up
operations.
10

Initialization: Set (i)t = 0; (ii) W eakEpochs, W eakUsers=∅; and (iii)G[∗], Rand[∗], ST[∗], K[∗]←⊥.
• Gen() executes (ST, PK)←$ Gen(), sets ST[PK]←ST, and returnsPK.
• Add(PK, PK∗) ﬁrst aborts if (i)PK = PK∗; (ii)t⁄= 0 and PK /∈G[t]; or (iii)PK∗∈G[t]. Otherwise it:
1. For randomly sampledr, setsRand[PK,t +1]←r and executes(ST[PK], K[t+1, PK], (CG,CB))←
Add(ST[PK], PK∗;r).
2. Sets G[t + 1]←G[t]∪{PK, PK∗}.
3. For everyPK′∈G[t]\{PK}, executes(ST[PK′], K[t+1, PK′])←Proc(ST[PK′],CG). Also executes
(ST[PK∗], K[t + 1, PK∗])←Proc(ST[PK∗],CG, B).
4. If (W eakUsers\ G[t + 1])⁄=∅, sets W eakEpochs←W eakEpochs∪{t + 1}.
5. Increments t←t + 1 and returns (CG,CB).
• Rem(PK, PK∗) ﬁrst aborts if (i)t = 0; (ii) PK = PK∗; (iii) PK /∈G[t]; or (iv)PK∗/∈G[t]. Otherwise, it:
1. For randomly sampledr, setsRand[PK,t +1]←r and executes(ST[PK], K[t+1, PK], (CG,CB))←
Rem(ST[PK], PK∗;r).
2. Sets G[t + 1]←G[t]\{PK∗}.
3. For every PK′∈G[t]\{PK}, executes (ST[PK′], K[t + 1, PK′])←Proc(ST[PK′],CG).
4. If (W eakUsers\ G[t + 1])⁄=∅, sets W eakEpochs←W eakEpochs∪{t + 1}.
5. Increments t←t + 1 and returns (CG,CB).
• Up(PK) ﬁrst aborts if (i)t = 0; or (ii)PK /∈G[t]. Otherwise, it:
1. For randomly sampledr, setsRand[PK,t +1]←r and executes(ST[PK], K[t+1, PK], (CG,CB))←
Up(ST[PK];r).
2. Sets G[t + 1]←G[t] and W eakUsers←W eakUsers\{PK}.
3. For every PK′∈G[t + 1]\{PK}, executes (ST[PK′], K[t + 1, PK′])←Proc(ST[PK′],CG).
4. If (W eakUsers\ G[t + 1])⁄=∅, sets W eakEpochs←W eakEpochs∪{t + 1}.
5. Increments t←t + 1 and returns (CG,CB).
• Corr(PK) ﬁrst setsW eakUsers←W eakUsers∪{PK}and W eakEpochs←W eakEpochs∪{t′≤t :
PK∈G[t′]}. Then it returnsST[PK] and Rand[PK,t′], for everyt′≤t.
Figure 1: The CGKA correctness and security games.
Correctness and Security. We deﬁne correctness and security of CGKA via games that are
played by an adversaryA, in whichA controls an execution of the CGKA protocol. For simplicity
and clarity, we only consider anon-adaptive protocol execution in asingle group. The games are
speciﬁed in Figure 1.
Before either game starts, the adversary speciﬁes the sequence of queries to the oraclesGen(),
Add(), Rem(), Up(), and Corr() that will be executed.Gen() allows the adversary to initialize
a new user, from which it receives the corresponding public key PK. The other oracles allow
the adversary to execute group operations, i.e., to add, remove, and update users, respectively.
Additionally, for the security game, the adversary beforehand speciﬁes theepoch t which it will
attack, i.e., for which it will guess the group key. The game starts in epocht = 0, then incrementst
each time a group operation oracle is queried. The game forces the adversary to ﬁrst queryAdd()
to initialize the group. It keeps track of group members for each epoch using dictionaryG. For
11

simplicity, in each group operation query, the game immediately uses each current group member’s
state to process the resulting ciphertext directly sent to them,CG, along with the current bulletin
board B, in the case of an added user. DictionaryK keeps track of the group key that each user
computes for each epoch. Each group operation oracle returnsC = (CG,CB) to the adversary.
Deﬁnition 2.2.A CGKA schemeCGKA is correct if for every adversaryA against the correctness
game deﬁned by Figure 1, and for allt and PK, PK′∈G[t]: Pr

K[t, PK] = K[t, PK′]

= 1.
Our notion of security is slightly weakened compared to the standard deﬁnition in the CGKA
literature, which only strengthens our lower bound. That is, the corruption of a user may aﬀect
the security of those keys that were established in the past while this user was a group member.
Thus, forward secrecy is not captured. Also, we do not consider authenticity.8 However, our
notion still captures basic security requirements plus standard PCS requirement (mentioned in the
introduction), as explained below.
We ﬁrst explain the importance of dictionaryRand, in addition to sets W eakEpochsand
W eakUsers, which allow the game to capture this security.Rand keeps track of the random-
ness the users sample to execute the operations of each epoch. Intuitively, W eakEpochsand
W eakUserskeep track of those epochs and users that are insecure, respectively. When the adver-
sary queries oracleCorr(PK), the game returns the corresponding user’s secret state, as well as the
randomness which she used to executeall of her past group operations. Thus, the game addsPK
to W eakUsersand since we do not require forward secrecy, it also adds toW eakEpochsevery
past epoch in which the corresponding user was in the group. Now, for everyUp(PK) query, the
game removes PK from W eakUsers. This in part captures PCS: in every group operation query,
if there are still weak users in the group (i.e.,(W eakUsers\ G[t + 1])⁄=∅), then the game adds
the new epocht + 1 to W eakEpochs. So, if there is a member of the group that was corrupted
and did not since update their state, the epoch is deemed weak. Conversely, as soon as every group
member updates their state or is removed after a corruption, epochs are no longer deemed weak.
After receiving all return values of the pre-speciﬁed sequence’s queries to these oracles, the
adversary outputs a keyK. This keyK is a guess for the actual group key established in epocht,
where t is the pre-speciﬁed attack epoch. Note that this recoverability deﬁnition is weaker than
standard indistinguishability deﬁnitions, which strengthens our lower bound.
Deﬁnition 2.3.A CGKA scheme CGKA is secure if for every PPT adversaryA = (A1,A2)
against the security game deﬁned by Figure 1:
Pr [K←$A2(ω,Trans) :K = K[t, PK∗];t /∈W eakEpochs;
PK∗∈G[t]; (ω,Seq,t )←$A1(1λ) ]≤negl(λ),
whereA1 non-adaptively speciﬁes the sequence of oracle queriesSeq and the attacked epocht, and
A2 guesses the attacked key when obtaining the transcript of oracle return valuesTrans.
2.2 Compact Key Exchange
We can now deﬁne Compact Key Exchange with access to a common reference string (CRS). Such
protocols allow some users1,...,n to sample independent (across users) key pairs(SK1, PK1), ...,
8Analyzing the eﬀect of required authenticity under weak randomness [7] on (communication) complexity in the
group setting [31], as well as of extended security goals such as anonymity [25] remains an interesting open question.
12

(SKn, PKn), then publicly broadcast PK1,..., PKn. Upon reception of these public keys, special
user 0 generates a keyK and messageC, and broadcastsC. Finally, upon reception ofC, every
user i∈[n] uses SKi, the set of public keys{PKj}j∈[n], andC to deriveK.
Deﬁnition 2.4.A Compact Key Exchangescheme CKE = (CRSGen, Init, Comm, Derive) in the
standard model with common reference stringCRS∈CRSconsists of the following algorithms:
• Init is a PPT algorithm that takes inCRS←$ CRSGen(1λ) and outputs (SK, PK).
• Comm is a PPT algorithm that takes inCRS and set{PKi}i∈[n] and outputs (K,C ).
• Derive is a deterministic, polynomial time algorithm that takes inCRS, SKi, wherei∈[n],
set{PKj}j∈[n], andC, and outputsK.
For correctness, we require that for anyn, and for everyi∈[n]:
Pr

K←Derive
(
CRS, SKi,{PKj}j∈[n],C
)
: (K,C )←$ Comm
(
CRS,{PKj}j∈[n]
)
;
∀j∈[n], (SKj, PKj)←$ Init(CRS);
CRS←$ CRSGen(1λ)

= 1.
For security, we require that for every PPT adversaryA that speciﬁesn = poly(λ):
Pr

K←$A
(
CRS,{PKi}i∈[n],C
)
: (K,C )←$ Comm
(
CRS,{PKi}i∈[n]
)
;
∀i∈[n], (SKi, PKi)←$ Init(CRS);
CRS←$ CRSGen(1λ)

≤negl(λ).
Ideally,|C|should be a small function (perhaps independent) ofn.
Remark 2.5.Of course, there is a simple CKE protocol (without CRS) from PKE schemePKE =
(Gen, Enc, Dec), where |C|= O(λ·n): Init() simply samples sk ←$ {0, 1}λ, then computes
pk ←Gen(sk) and outputs (sk, pk). Comm({pki}i∈[n]) samples K ←$ {0, 1}λ, and for each
i∈[n] computes ci ←$ Enc(pki,K ). It then outputs (K,C ), where C = (c1,...,cn). Finally,
Derive(ski,{pkj}j∈[n],C ) computesK←Dec(ski,ci) and outputsK. Correctness and security fol-
low trivially.
3 From CGKA to CKE Tightly
In this section, we show that CKE is at the core of CGKA, both in terms of cryptographic strength
and worst-case communication complexity, by providing atight construction of the former from
the latter. The simpler counter direction—building CGKA from CKE, tightly—is provided in
Appendix E. From these two reductions, we show that the worst-case communication complexity
of CGKA operations is asymptotically equivalent to the size of CKE ciphertexts. That is, we
show that the best possible size of a CKE ciphertext implies 1. a lower bound on the worst-case
communication complexity of CGKA operations; and 2. an upper bound for the same. With this
result, we additionally prove that the communication overhead in a CGKA group is necessarily
increased if group members remain oﬄine after they were added to the group. Indeed, based
13

on our Ω(n) lower bound on CKE ciphertext size for protocols that make black-box use of PKE
from Section 4, we show that worst-case communication overhead for CGKA protocols that make
black-box use of PKE isΩ(k), where k is the number of added users who remain inactive after
being added to the group. Furthermore, we show that this holds even for (unboundedly) many
consecutive operations.
To illustrate our proof idea, consider the following execution of a CGKA protocol: Let users
A and B be members of an existing CGKA group. UserA adds k new users to this group before
user B removes A from the group andB ﬁnally conducts a state update. AfterA is removed
and B updates his state, the group must share a key that is secure even ifA is corrupted after
he is removed orB was corrupted before his update, and there were no other corruptions. (Note
that these corruptions ofA and B must be harmless w.r.t. security becauseA was removed and
B updated his state to recover according to PCS.) We observe that the only information received
by thek new users so far wereA’s add-ciphertexts andB’s remove- and update-ciphertexts. Since
A may have been corrupted (which reveals the randomness she used for adding thek users), the
add-ciphertexts may contain no conﬁdential payload. Similarly,B might have been corrupted until
he updated his state. Hence,B’s ciphertext that updates his state is the only input from which
the k users can derive a secure group key. This update ciphertext intuitively corresponds to a
CKE ciphertext that establishes a key with thek newly added users. In our proof, we generalize
this intuition to show that, as long ask new group members remain passive, a recurring linear
communication overhead inΩ(k) cannot be avoided when active group members repeatedly update
the group’s key material.
3.1 Embedding CGKA Ciphertexts in CKE Ciphertexts
With our proof that CGKA implies CKE, we directly lift the communication-cost lower bound
for CKE from Section 4 to certainbad sequences in a CGKA execution. That means, our proof
implies that such bad sequences in a CGKA execution lead to a linear communication overhead in
the number ofaﬀectedusers. For this, we build a CKE construction that embeds speciﬁc CGKA
ciphertexts in its CKE ciphertexts. Thus, a CGKA scheme that achieves sub-linear communication
costs in the number of aﬀected group members for these embedded ciphertexts results in a CKE
with compact ciphertexts, which contradicts our lower bound from Section 4.
Components of Bad Sequences. Intuitively, abad CGKA sequenceis an operation sequence
in a CGKA session during whichk passive usersare added to the group that stay oﬄine while (few)
other members actively conduct CGKA operations continuously. A CGKA session that contains
such a sequence can be split into (1) apre-add phase that ends when the ﬁrst of thesek passive
users is added and (2) the subsequentbad sequence itself. The bad sequence contains (2.a) the
add operations due to which the passive users become group members as well as (2.c) multiple,
potentially overlapping, iterations of collective update assistances. With these collective update
assistances, the active users update key material for the newly added passive users, which causes
the communication overhead inΩ(k). From the perspective of eachcollective update assistance,
the remaining operations in abad sequencecan be categorized into (2.b)ineﬀective pre-assistance
operations and (2.d) an irrelevant end. (The numbering in the above enumeration reﬂects the
order of these components within the bad sequence; We illustrate an exemplary bad sequence in
Figure 2.)
14

A
B
C
D
E
F
Up
Up
Up
1 Pre-Add
Phase
2.a Add
Operations
t2
*t1
* t3
*
2.b Ineffective
Pre-Assistance
2.c Effective
Operations
Up Up
Up
Passive
Users
Active
Users
Add(E)
Add(F) Rem(D)
Rem(C)
Figure 2: Bad CGKA sequence withactive usersA, B and passive usersE, F. A and B perform
three collective update assistancesthat end with operationst∗
1,t∗
2, andt∗
3, respectively. Theeﬀective
operations of each assistance are marked with colored frames. Operations between the lastadd
operation and a frame are part of the respectiveineﬀective pre-assistance.
Let sequence Seq = (Op1,..., Opn) be the execution schedule of a CGKA session, where each
Opt is a tuple that refers to an executed group operation with the following format: Opt =
(Up, PK,⊥) means that PK updates their state; Opt = (Add, PK, PK∗) means that PK adds PK∗;
Opt = (Rem, PK, PK∗) means that PK removes PK∗; see Section 2.1 for more details. Further, let
PU,|PU|= k, be the public key set of thek passive users, such that for everyPK∗∈PU there
exists an operation(Add,·, PK∗) but neither an operation(Rem,·, PK∗) nor an operation(·, PK∗,·)
in sequence Seq.
(1) The pre-add phasestarts at the beginning of the entire sequence and ends with thetA
1−1th
operation, where OptA
1
= (Add,·, PK∗) is the ﬁrstoperation that adds a userPK∗∈PU to the
group. (2.a) The add operations, starting with operationOptA
1
, end with thelast operation OptA
k
=
(Add,·, PK∗) that adds a userPK∗∈PU to the group. (Also operations other than adding passive
users can be contained in this phase.)
(2.c)Theﬁrstcollective update assistanceendswhenallactiveusersconductedtheirﬁrstupdate
after the add operations. During such acollective update assistance, the active users both propagate
new own key material but also collectively establish and communicate newkey material for the
passive users. We deﬁneAUt∗as the public key set ofusers who areactive between thetA
1 th and
t∗th operation. That means PK∗∈AUt∗iﬀthere exists at least one operationOpt = (·, PK∗,·)
but no operation Opt = (Rem,·, PK∗) for tA
1 ≤t≤t∗in sequence Seq. Every collective update
assistance by active users in setAUt∗is determined by its ﬁnal operationOpt∗,t∗>t A
k, for which it
must hold that all usersPK∗∈AUt∗conducted an update operation between thetA
k +1 th andt∗th
operation. Such a collective update assistanceconsists of a set ofeﬀective operationsEOt∗from
sequence Seq. Theseeﬀective operationsestablish key material with the passive users and, in total,
have a communication overhead ofΩ(k) as we will prove.(2.b) Operations executed prior to the
t∗th operation that are not in setEOt∗are calledineﬀective pre-assistance operations. (2.d) The
remaining sequence after thet∗th operation is theirrelevant end. In summary, a bad sequence
from the perspective of one (out of potentially many)collective update assistancesis structured as
follows: (2.a)add operationsbetween thetA
1 th andtA
k th operation, (2.b)ineﬀective pre-assistance
15

operations between the tA
k + 1th and t∗−1th operation, (2.c) eﬀective operationsbetween the
tA
k + 1th andt∗th operation that constitute thiscollective update assistance, and (2.d)irrelevant
end after thet∗th operation.
The eﬀective operationsconsist of all active users’ operations since their respective most recent
update operation. That means, for each active user public keyPK∈AUt∗, the set ofeﬀective
operations EOt∗in acollective update assistancecontains all operationsOpt′= (·, PK,·) that were
initiated since the most recent update operationOptPK = (Up, PK,·)by userPK, wheretPK≤t′≤t∗
with maximaltPK, respectively.
Intuition for a Bad Sequence. Active users establish secret key material for passive users
in collective update assistances. The communication overhead in Ω(k) that is induced by such a
collective update assistancecan be distributed among all correspondingeﬀective operations. That
means, active users can trade the work of establishing key material and the corresponding necessary
communication overhead within each collective update assistance. However, it is important to
emphasize that operations only establish key material to passive userseﬀectivelyif the involved
active users are not corrupted at that point. Hence, from the perspective of a CGKA group
key computed with thet∗th operation, prior operations only contribute eﬀectively to its secure
computation if the involved users were able to recover from a potential earlier corruption. Such a
recovery from a corruption is achieved via an update operation. This is the reason why theeﬀective
operations are deﬁned as each active user’s last operations since their most recent state update.
During and after these state updates, the active users collectively assist the passive users in securely
deriving the same CGKA group key in thet∗th operation.
Based on the above terminology, we formulate our communication overhead lower bound in the
following theorem:
Theorem 3.1(CGKA Lower Bound). Let Seq be an execution schedule of a CGKA session during
which k passive users are added to the group until thetA
k th operation. Lett∗determine the last
operation of any subsequent collective update assistance such that all active users in set AUt∗
conduct an update between thetA
k +1th andt∗th operation. Finally, letEOt∗be the corresponding set
of eﬀective operationsthat consist of allactive users’most recent update and subsequent operations
until the t∗th operation. The total size of ciphertexts sent by operations in setEOt∗is Ω(k) for
every CGKA construction that makes black-box use of PKE.
We want to note that our lower bound could be extended to morebad sequenceswith equally
damaging eﬀect on the communication overhead. For clarity and compactness, we focus on the
chosen speciﬁcation.
Proof Sketch. The proof of Theorem 3.1 is provided in Appendix D. In summary, this proof
proceeds as follows: We build a CKE construction that internally uses a CGKA scheme to execute
a CGKA execution scheduleSeq. For establishing a CKE key tok public keys, this sequenceSeq
contains at least onecollective update assistancefor k passive users. The core idea of the CKE
construction is that precisely theeﬀective operations’CGKA ciphertexts of thiscollective update
assistance in the CGKA sequence are embedded in the committed CKE ciphertext. Hence, the
total ciphertext size of theseeﬀective CGKA operationsequals the size of the CKE ciphertext. All
remainingoperationsintheCGKAsequence(i.e., pre-add phase,add operations, andineﬀective pre-
assistance operations) are, in diﬀerent shapes, encoded in the CKE common reference stringCRS.
16

The complex but interesting idea of this construction, and hence of this proof, is the isolation
of the eﬀective operationsfrom the remaining operations in the entire sequence as well as their
encoding in the CKE ciphertext such that CKE functionality and security are reached. As part of
the proof, we reduce the security of this CKE construction to the security of the underlying CGKA
scheme. Finally, we show that a CGKA scheme that executes schedule Seq without inducing
a communication overhead ofΩ(k) for the eﬀective operationsimplies a CKE construction with
compact ciphertexts.
In Corollary 3.2 we formulate a simpler, more speciﬁc variant of bad sequences that is directly
implied by Theorem 3.1. Consider a sequenceSeq in which the active users, after adding the passive
users, only conduct state update operations. Then, theeﬀective operationsof eachcollective update
assistance in sequence Seq are simply the most recent state updates by each active user.
Corollary 3.2(Eﬀective Update Operations). Let Seq be an execution schedule of a CGKA session
during whichk passive usersare added to the group until thetA
k th operation. Lett∗determine the
last operation of any subsequentcollective update assistancesuch that allactive usersin set AUt∗
conduct an update between thetA
k +1th andt∗th operation. If all operations after thetA
k th operation
are state updates, then the total size of ciphertexts sent due to the most recent updates by each active
user in set AUt∗is Ω(k) for every CGKA construction that makes black-box use of PKE, where
|AUt∗|=|EOt∗|.
Overlapping Collective Update Assistances. We want to point out thateﬀective operations
of diﬀerentcollective update assistancesmay overlap. For example, an active userA may update
their state during the sequenceSeqprecisely once after the passive users were added. The remaining
active usersB and C may repeatedly perform new updates until the end of the sequence. In this
case, the eﬀective operationsof all collective update assistancesin sequence Seq will include the
singleupdateoperationby Aandalwaysthemostrecentoperationsof B andC sincetheirrespective
latest update in this sequence. As we will show in Section 5, there exists no optimal strategy to
exploit the fact that eﬀective operations ofdiﬀerentcollective update assistances canoverlap. For
example, one cannot successfully predict whichsingle eﬀective operations are inseveral collective
update assistances and thus make thesesingle operations have large communication overhead, so
that large costs are not repeated several times.
Continuous Update Assistances. We ﬁnally come back to our motivating example CGKA
execution schedule. In this schedule, only one userA adds thek passive users, and another user
B removes A thereafter. In order to show that addingk passive users can induce acontinuous
communication overhead, we extend this execution schedule: after adding thek passive users, l
active users replace each other, one after another. More precisely, ﬁrst a userA adds k users as
well as a second userB, then userB removes A and adds a new userC, then C replaces user
B by a new userD, and so on. Each of these active users additionally performs a state update
after replacing their predecessor. The eﬀect of this cascade of replace-update sequences is that each
contained update operation constitutes a singlecollective update assistance, individually inducing
a communication overhead of Ω(k).9 As a result, the entire schedule induces a communication
9We strike out “collective” because each update assistance is conducted by a single active user in this execution
schedule.
17

overhead of Ω(k·l). We formally deﬁne this CGKA execution schedule in Deﬁnition 3.3 and give
the corresponding Corollary 3.4.
Deﬁnition 3.3(Continuous Update Assistance). Let Seq be an operation schedule of a CGKA
session during which userPK0 adds k passive usersto the group until thetA
k th operation. Schedule
Seq contains a Continuous Update Assistanceof lengthl after thetA
k th operation ifSeq proceeds
after thetA
k th operation withl repetitions of operation sequences(Opi,A, Opi,R, Opi,U),i∈[l], where
Opi,A = (Add, PKi, PKi+1), Opi,R = (Rem, PKi+1, PKi), and Opi,U = (Up, PKi+1,⊥) for indepen-
dent users PKj,j ∈[l + 1].
Corollary 3.4(Continuous Communication Overhead). For every CGKA execution scheduleSeq
that contains aContinuous Update Assistanceof lengthl after thetA
k th operation, the total size
of ciphertexts output by the 3l operations after the tA
k th operation is Ω(k·l) for every CGKA
construction that makes black-box use of PKE.
The proof of Corollary 3.4 is a direct application of Theorem 3.1 via a simple hybrid argument
that considers each replace-update sequence inSeq as acollective update assistance.
4 CKE Lower Bound from PKE
Before showing our lower bound for CKE from PKE, we need to deﬁne the model in which we
prove it.
Preliminaries. For a functionf we writef(∗) = y to indicatef(x) = y for some inputx. We
generalize this notation for the case in which some part of the input is ﬁxed, writingf(a1,∗) =y,
interpreted in the natural way. Many other preliminaries are deferred to Appendix A.
CKE in theΨ-model. The model for our proof gives the protocol and adversary access to an
oracle distribution, deﬁned as follows:
Deﬁnition 4.1.We deﬁne an oracle distributionΨ that produces oracles(O, u, v), where O =
(g, e, d). The distribution is parameterized over a security parameterλ, but we keep it implicit for
better readability.
• g:{0, 1}λ↦→{0, 1}3λis a random length-tripling function, mapping a secret key to a public
key.
• e:{0, 1}3λ×{0, 1}×{0, 1}λ↦→ {0, 1}3λ: is a random function satisfying the following:
for every pk ∈ {0, 1}3λ, the function e(pk,·,·) is injective; i.e., if (m,r )⁄= (m′,r′), then
e(pk,m,r )⁄= e(pk,m′,r′).
• d :{0, 1}λ×{0, 1}3λ↦→{0, 1}is the decryption oracle, whered(sk,c ) outputs m∈{0, 1}if
e(g(sk),m,∗) =c; otherwise, d(sk,c ) =⊥.
• v:{0, 1}3λ×{0, 1}3λ↦→{⊥,⊤}, is a ciphertext-validity checking oracle:v(pk,c ) outputs⊤if
c is in the range ofe(pk,·,·) (that is,c := e(pk,∗,∗)); otherwise, it outputs⊥.
18

• u:{0, 1}3λ×{0, 1}3λ↦→{0, 1}∪{⊥}, is an oracle that decrypts wrt invalid public keys; given
(pk,c ), if there existssk such that g(sk) = pk, then u(pk,c ) =⊥; otherwise, if there exists a
message m∈{0, 1}such that e(pk,m,∗) =c, returnm; else, return⊥.
Now, we can deﬁne CKE in theΨ-model.
Deﬁnition 4.2.A Compact Key Exchangescheme in the Ψ-model is deﬁned equivalently as in
Deﬁnition 2.4, except that each of the CKE algorithms and the adversary additionally have access
to the Ψ oracles. We denote such access usingΨ as a superscript in the corresponding algorithms,
e.g., InitΨ (CRS). All other syntax and security requirements stay the same.
4.1 Proof Outline
Our lower bound is derived from the following two lemmas. The ﬁrst lemma shows a random
(g, e, d) constitutes an ideally-secure PKE protocol, even against adversaries that have access to
the oracles (u, v), in addition to (g, e, d). The second lemma shows that the security of any
proposed CKE protocol(CRSGen, Init, Comm, Derive), instantiated with a randomO := (g, e, d),
may be broken by an adversary making at most a polynomial number of queries to(O, u, v). The
black-box separation will then follow.
Lemma 4.3 (O is secure against (O, u, v)). For any polynomial-query adversary A:
Pr[AO,u,v(pk,c ) = b] ≤1/2 + 1
2λ/2, where (g, e, d, u, v) ←$ Ψ, O := ( g, e, d), b ←$ {0, 1},
sk←${0, 1}λ, pk = g(sk), r←${0, 1}λand c = e(pk,b ;r).
The following lemma shows how to break compact CKE constructions relative to the PKE
oracles. The lemma shows that even for encrypting single-bit keys (i.e.,|K|= 1), a CKE ciphertext
cannot be sub-linear inn.
Lemma 4.4(Breaking CKE relative to(O, u, v)). Let (CRSGen, Init, Comm, Derive) be a can-
didate black-box construction of CKE, where for any CKE ciphertextC,|C|≤3λ(n−1)
2 . For any con-
stantc, there exists a polynomial-query adversaryBrkO,u,v such thatPr[BrkO,u,v(PK1,..., PKn,C ) =
K]≥1−1
λc, where (g, e, d, u, v)←$ Ψ, O := ( g, e, d), CRS←$ CRSGenO(1λ), (PKi,∗)←$
InitO(CRS) for i∈[n], and (K,C )←$ CommO(CRS, PK1,..., PKn).
Roadmap. Lemma 4.3 is proved in a straightforward way (hence omitted), given the random
nature of the oracles. The proof of Lemma 4.4 is the main technical bulk of our paper, consisting
of the description of an attacker and attack analysis. We ﬁrst describe the attacker for the case
(Initg, Comme, Derived) in Section 4.2, and will then describe an attack against general construc-
tions in Appendix C. Lemma 4.4 will follow similarly from the below simpler attack. We may now
obtain the following from Lemmas 4.3,4.4, proved via standard black-box separation techniques.
Theorem 4.5. There exists no fully-black-box construction of CKE schemes from PKE schemes
with CKE ciphertext sizeo(n)|c|, where|c|denotes the ciphertext size of the base PKE scheme.
4.2 Attack for (CRSGeng, Initg, Comme, Derived)
We will show an attack for the case in which oracle access is of the form(CRSGeng, Initg, Comme,
Derived). This already captures the main ideas behind the impossibility result. We will then show
how to relax this assumption.
19

Attack overview. Let (PK1,..., PKn,C ) be the public keys and the ciphertext. We show an
impossibility as long as|C|≤3λ(n−1)
2 , where recall that3λis the size of a base ciphertext as per
oracles generated byΨ (Deﬁnition 4.1). This particular choice for the size ofC will ensure thatC
can “embed” at mostn−1 base ciphertexts, in a sense we will later deﬁne in Lemma A.2.
For simplicity, in this overview we assume that the scheme does not have a CRS. The attack
is based on the following high-level idea. During the generation of each(PKi, SKi)←$ Initg(1λ) a
set of g-type query/answer pairs made. LetKPairi ={(pki,1, ski,1),..., (pki,t, ski,t)}be the set of
public/secret key pairs produced during the generation ofPKi. These public keys are in someway
encoded in PKi, and the ability to decrypt with respect to these basepki,j public keys is the only
advantage that theith party, who hasSKi, has over an adversary.
Consider a random execution of(K,C )←$ Comme(PK1,..., PKn), and letQ ={(pk1,bi,ri,ci)|
i∈[f]}contain the set of all query/answer pairs, and letQc ={c1,...,cf}. Since the ciphertextC
is compact,C can embed at most(n−1) ciphertexts ci from the setQc. By embedding we mean
anyone, including the legitimate users, given onlyC can extract at mostn−1 valid pairs(pki,ci)
without querying e.
Now for each user consider its local decryption execution. Each user performing decryption will
need to decrypt pairs of the form(pk,c ), in order to recover a sharedK. We focus on those pairs
which are valid, meaning thatc is in the range ofe(pk,·,·). Looking ahead, the reason for this is
that for invalid pairs for which the answer is⊥, an adversary can already simulate the answer by
calling u. Let S′
i be the set of valid pairs that come up during decryption performed by useri. Since
C embeds at mostn−1 valid pairs (pk,c ), for some userh: S′
h⊆S′
1∪...S′
h−1. In other words,
the set of base trapdoors needed to decryptS′
h is a subset of those forS′
1∪...S′
h−1. Moreover, in
order for any user to be able to decrypt some(pk,c ), the user should have observed a query/answer
pair (pk, sk) during its execution ofInitg(1λ). Thus, recalling KPairh, the set of base secret keys
needed to decrypt elements inS′
h is a subset ofKPair1∪...,∪KPairh−1. But each of theseKPairi
sets (fori∈[n]) is obtained by runningInitg(1λ) on a security parameter, and so if an adversary
runs Initg(1λ) many times and collects all query/answer pairs in a setFreq, the adversary with
high probability will collect all the trapdoors needed to successfully decrypt for at least one user.
How to perform simulated decryption?So far, the discussion above says that an adversary
can collect a setFreq which with high probability contains all(pk, sk) pairs needed to decrypt with
respect to at least one user. But even givenFreq, it is unclear how to perform decryption for any
user. The adversary cannot simply “look at”Freq and somehow decryptC — the adversary will
need a secret keySK to be able to runDerive(SK,·). The solution is to let the adversary sample a
“fake” secret keys for users, in a manner consistent with query-answer knowledge ofFreq.
We make the following assumption for the construction(CRSGeng, Initg, Comme, Derived)
that we want to prove an impossibility for. The assumption is made only for ease of exposition.
Assumption 4.6. We assume for any oracle (g, e, d)←$ Ψ picked as in Deﬁnition 4.1, each
algorithm in (CRSGeng, Initg, Comme, Derived) makes only a security parameterλnumber of
queries.
Deﬁnition 4.7(Partial oracles and consistency). We say a partial oracleO1 (deﬁned only on a
subset of all points) isΨ-valid if for someO2∈Supp(Ψ): O1⊆O2, whereSupp denotes the support
of a distribution. We say an oracle(g, e, d) is PKE-valid if it satisﬁes PKE completeness. A partial
PKE-valid oracle is one which is a subset of a PKE-valid oracle. Note that anyΨ-valid oracle is
20

PKE-valid as well. We say a partial oracleO1 is consistent with a set of query/response pairsS if
O1∪S is PKE-valid.
We also need to deﬁne the notion of a partial oracle forbidding a set of query/response pairs.
This technique of forbidding a set of query/answer pairs will be used extensively in our construc-
tions, and to the best of our knowledge, no previous impossibility results deal with this technique.
Deﬁnition 4.8(Forbidding queries). Let Forbid consists of “wildcard” queries/ responses, of the
form (q− →z ∗) or (∗− →z u), wherez∈{g, e}. We say that a partial oracleO1 = (˜g, ˜e) forbids Forbid
if (a) for any(q− →z ∗)∈Forbid the oracle ˜z is not deﬁned on inputq and (b) for any(∗− →z u) the
oracle ˜z is not deﬁned on any input point with a corresponding outputu (i.e., y is not in the set of
output points deﬁned under˜z).
The attacker will ﬁrst perform many random executions ofInitg(CRS) to collect all likely
query/response pairs: those that appear during a random execution with a high-enough proba-
bility. This will allow the adversary to learn the secret keys for all likely basepk’s that might
be embedded to more than one user’s CKE public key. Once this step is done, the attacker will
sample partial oracles that are consistent with the set of collected query/answer pairs. Recall that
by Assumption 4.6 any execution ofInitg(CRS) makes exactlyλqueries. We say a partial oracle
O′(deﬁned only on a subset of points) is minimal for an executionInitO′
(CRS;R), if the execution
makes queries only to those points deﬁned inO′, and nothing else. This means in particular that
O′is deﬁned only onλpoints. In the deﬁnition below, we talk about samplingminimal partial
oracles O′that agree with some set of query/answer pairs.
Deﬁnition 4.9(Sampling partial oracles). We deﬁne the procedureConsOrc. In this deﬁnition we
assume that the algorithm Initg,e makes both g and e queries (as opposed to g only), since this
deﬁnition will also be used for the general attack.
• Input: (CRS, PK, Freq, Forbid): A CRS CRS, public key PK, and set of query/answer pairs
Freq and a set of query/answer pairsForbid. The set Forbid consists of “wildcard” forbidden
queries/responses, of the form(q− →z ∗) or (∗− →z u), wherez∈{g, e}.
• Output: (SK, O′) or⊥, produced as follows. Sample a partial Ψ-generated O′= ( g′, e′)
deﬁned only onλqueries (see Assumption 4.6), sample randomnessR and a resultant SK
uniformly at random subject to the conditions that (a)O′is consistent with Freq; (b) O′
forbids Forbid (Deﬁnition 4.8) (c)InitO′
(CRS;R) = (PK, SK) and (d) O′is R-minimal: the
execution of InitO′
(CRS;R) makes only queries to those inO′, and nothing else. If no such
(SK, O′) exists, output⊥.10
In our attack, the adversary will try performing simulated decryptions for diﬀerent parties. The
adversary will do so by sampling a simulated secret key~SK for that party, along with a partial oracle
g′relative to which~SK is a secret key for that party’s public keyPK (i.e., (PK,~SK)←$ Initg′
(CRS)).
The adversary will then perform decryption with respect to an oracleg′♦∗O that is the result of
superimposing g′on the real oracleO. We will deﬁne the superimposed oracle below. Essentially,
the superimposed oracle is deﬁned in a way so that it agrees withg′, it is a valid PKE oracle,
and also agrees with the real oracle as much as possible. In the deﬁnition below we deﬁne this
10This can happen because of the presence of forbidding queries inForbid.
21

superimposing process, but note that we are not claiming that the output ofg′♦∗O on a given
query can be necessarily obtained by making a polynomial number of queries toO.
As notation we use (sk1 − →g pk1) to denote a query/answer pair of g-type. We use similar
notation for other types of queries. IfL is a set of query/answer pairs, we useQuery(L) to denote
the query parts of the elements ofL.
Deﬁnition 4.10(Composed Oracles♦∗). Let O := (g, e, d) be aΨ-valid oracle (a possible output
of Ψ) and let
g′:={(sk1− →g pk1),..., (skw− →g pkw)}
be a partialΨ-valid oracle consisting of onlyg-type queries. We deﬁne a composed oracleg′♦∗O :=
(~g, e,~d) as follows.
• ~g(·): for a givensk, let~g(sk) ∆= pki if sk = ski for i∈[w]; otherwise,~g(sk) ∆= g(sk).
• ~d(·,·): for a given pair(sk,c ), deﬁne~d(sk,c ) as follows. Assuming pk =~g(sk), if there exists
m∈{0, 1}such thatc = e(pk,m,∗), returnm; otherwise, return⊥.
In the deﬁnition above notice that the resulting oracle(~g, e,~d) is Ψ-valid (i.e., and hence a
valid PKE oracle, satisfying PKE completeness) as long asO and g′are Ψ-valid. Thus, we have
the following lemma.
Lemma 4.11.Assuming O and g′are Ψ-valid, (~g, e,~d), obtained as in Deﬁnition 4.10, isΨ-valid,
and hence PKE-valid.
4.2.1 Description of the Attacker Against(CRSGeng, Initg, Comme, Derived)
Brkg,e,d,u,v(CRS, PK1,..., PKn,C ): The attack is based on two integersη,η′, instantiated later.
1. Let Decrypt = 0, Forge = 0, and Forbid =∅.
2. Do the following forηiterations. Sample randomnessR and executeInitg(CRS;R) and record
all query/response pairs inFreq.
3. Sample γ←$ [η′] and do the followingγtimes. Run (PK,∗)←$ Initg(CRS) using fresh
randomness, sample (~SK, g′)←$ ConsOrc(CRS, PK, Freq, Forbid), and for every(sk− →g pk)∈
g′\Freq, add (sk− →g ∗) to Forbid; also, if(∗− →g pk) /∈Freq, add (∗− →g pk) to Forbid.11 At the
end of each iteration, updateFreq by adding all queries made during(PK,∗)←$ Initg(CRS)
to Freq.
4. Fori∈[n]
(a) Sample (~SKi, g′
i)←$ ConsOrc(CRS, PKi, Freq, Forbid). If (~SKi, g′
i) =⊥, then halt.12
(b) Let g′
i♦∗O = (~g, e,~d).
11Note that sinceInit makes only g queries, the output ofConsOrc (Deﬁnition 4.9) does not have ane′oracle.
12This can happen because the setForbid makes some queries/responses oﬀ-limits.
22

(c) Execute Derive~d(~SKi,{PKi},C ) and answer the queries as follows. For a queryqu :=
((sk,c )− →
~d
?), if (sk− →g ∗)∈Freq or (sk− →g ∗) /∈g′, then reply to the query withd(sk,c ).
Otherwise, letting pk = ~g(sk) — which can be computed eﬃciently — if(sk′− →g pk)∈
Freq for some sk′, reply toqu with d(sk′,c ). Else,
i. if v(pk,c ) =⊥, then reply toqu with⊥;
ii. else if u(pk,c ) =m⁄=⊥, then reply toqu with m;
iii. else, add (pk,c ) to Chal, and if i < n, go to the nexti (Step 4); otherwise, set
Forge = 1 and halt.
(d) If we have not halted so far, letting ~Ki be the output of the simulated decryption
Derive~d(CRS, PK1,..., PKn,~SKi,C ), return~Ki, set Decrypt = 1 and halt.
Notation 4.12.Let (CRS, PK1,..., PKn,C ) be as above. LetQC be the set of query/response pairs
made to generateCRS←$ CRSGeng(1λ). Fori∈[n] let QGeni be the set of query/response pairs
made to generate (PKi, SKi)←$ Initg(CRS). Let K be the corresponding key forC, and suppose
QEnc is the set of query/response pairs made to generate(K,C )←$ Comme(CRS, PK1,..., PKn).
4.2.2 Attack Analysis
We deﬁne some events that will help us to analyze the eﬀectiveness of the attack.
Deﬁnition 4.13.We deﬁne the following events, based on the variables introduced in Notation 4.12
and for attackerBrk.
• Event Evnt1 is the event thatDecrypt = 1, and Evnt2 is the event thatForge = 1.
• Event Emptyi for i∈[n]: the event thatg′
i =∅.13 We let Empty :=⋁
i Emptyi.
• Event Agree: for all h∈[n], g′
h agrees with∪i⁄=hQGeni∪QC∪QEnc. If g′
h is empty, then
agreement is assumed to hold.
• Event Surprisei for i ∈[n]: there exists (∗ − →g pk) ∈g′
i such that (∗ − →g pk) ∈QC and
(∗− →g pk) /∈Freq. If g′
i is empty, we saySurprisei does not hold. We letSurprise :=⋁
i Surprisei.
• Event Spoof: the event that for some h∈[n], there exists (∗ − →g pk)∈g′
h such that (a)
(∗− →g pk) /∈∪i∈[n]QGeni∪QC∪Freq and (b) pk is g-valid; namely, g(∗) = pk.
• Event Intersect: the event that for two distincti,j ∈[n], there is either an intersection query
between QGeni and QGenj not picked up byFreq, or there is an intersection response between
QGeni and QGenj not picked up byFreq. That is, the event that(QGeni\ QGenj)\Freq⁄=∅
or there existspk such that (∗− →g pk)∈QGeni and (∗− →g pk)∈QGenj and (∗− →g pk) /∈Freq.
In the following lemmas we will bound the probability of each of the above events. Lemma 4.20
will make use of these bounds to bound the probability of the attack being successful.
13This is the same thing as(~SKi, g′
i) =⊥, namely the output ofConsOrc(), in Deﬁnition 4.9, is⊥. The output of
ConsOrc() may indeed be⊥due to the presence of forbidding queries inForbid.
23

Lemma 4.14.Assumingη≥λ0.1, for anyi∈[n] Pr[Emptyi]≤ 1
2ω(logλ) + 2λ1.1η′
η . Thus, Pr[Empty]≤
n
2ω(logλ) + 2nλ1.1η′
η
Lemma 4.15. Assumingη≥λ0.1, Pr[Agree]≥1− n
2ω(log(λ))−nλ
η′−n2λ1.1
η .
Lemma 4.16. For anyi∈[n] Pr[Surprisei]≤λ
η′. As a result,Pr[Surprise]≤nλ
η′.
Lemma 4.17. We havePr[Spoof]≤1
22λ.
Lemma 4.18. Assumingη≥λ0.1, Pr[Intersect]≤2n2λ1.1
η + n2
2ω(logλ).
Proof. Letp = λ0.1
η and note thatpη≥ω(logλ). By Lemma A.7, for any ﬁxed and distincti andj,
the probability that(QGeni\ QGenj)\Freq⁄=∅is at most2λ1.1
η + 1
2ω(logλ). The proof now follows
by the union bound over all pairs of(i,j ), which is less thann2.
Lemma 4.19. Suppose|C|≤3λ(n−1)
2 , whereC is the CKE ciphertext. For any constantc >0,
assuming η′≥nλc+1 and η≥nη′λ1.1+c, Pr[Evnt2]≤5
λc.
Lemma 4.20(Attack eﬀectiveness). Suppose|C|≤3λ(n−1)
2 , whereC is the CKE ciphertext. For
any constantc> 0, assumingη′≥nλc+1 and η≥4nη′λ1.1+c, Pr[~K =K]≥1−10
λc.
Proof. We have Pr[Evnt1∨Evnt2∨Empty] = 1 . This is because whenever Brk halts, the halt-
ing condition speciﬁed in Line 4a (eventEmpty), or Line 4(c)iii (eventEvnt2) or Line 4d (event
Evnt1) must be triggered. Thus,Pr[Evnt1]≤Pr[Evnt2] + Pr[Empty]. By Lemma 4.15Pr[Agree]≤
−n
2ω(log(λ))−nλ
η′−n2λ1.1
η . By the particular values ofηandη′, Pr[Agree]≤3
λc. Moreover, by invoking
Lemmas 4.14 and 4.19 for these values ofηand η′, we havePr[Empty]≤1
λc Pr[Evnt2]≤5
λc.
Pr[~K =K]≥Pr[~K =K|Evnt1∧Agree∧Empty] Pr[Evnt1∧Agree∧Empty]
≥1(1−Pr[Evnt2]−Pr[Empty]−Pr[Agree]−Pr[Empty])≥1−5
λc−3
λc−2
λc = 1−10
λc.
The reason that Pr[~K = K |Evnt1∧Agree∧Empty] = 1 is that, the oracle ~O := (~g, e,~d),
deﬁned in Line 4b ofBrk, is PKE-valid (c.f., Lemma 4.11). Also,(C,K ) is a possible output of
Comm~O(PK1,..., PKn), since Comm makes only encryption queries. Let h∈[n] be the index
for which Evnt1 holds. Since Agree occurs, CRS and (PKi,∗) for i ⁄= h are a possible output
of CRSGen~g(1λ) and Init~g(CRS), respectively. Also, we know(~SKh, PKh) is a possible output of
Init~g(CRS), because~g and g′
h agree with each other. Now sinceEvnt1∧Emptyholds, this means that
Evnt2∧Empty holds, which means Line 4(c)iii ofBrk is never hit, and so the simulated decryption
performed by Brk (for the indexh) results in the same value asDerive~d(~SKh, PK1,..., PKn,C ).
The proof is now complete.
5 No Single Optimal CGKA Protocol Exists
In this section, we will show that there is nosingle best CGKA protocol. More precisely, for any
CGKA protocol Π, there is a distribution of CGKA sequences and some other CGKA protocol
24

Π′such that on sequences drawn from this distribution,Π′has much lower expected amortized
communication cost thanΠ. We make the same restriction on protocols that we have throughout
the paper: the protocols are only allowed to use PKE.
The main intuition behind this section is the following: As we saw from Corollary 3.2 of Theo-
rem 3.1, if starting with a group ofn users with public keysPK1,...PKn in any state (for example,
every user has just executed an update),
1. k users are added to the group and then remain oﬄine (i.e., do not execute any operations),
2. Then theαusers (w.l.o.g., users1,...,αwith public keysPK1,...PKα) that have been online
since the ﬁrst of the above users was added all update,
the combined size of their ciphertexts must beΩ(k). Now, consider the scenario in which user
1 adds all of thek new users, then updates, and then users2,...,αall execute updates. While
adding thek new users, user 1 may or may not have built some structure for group members to
communicate with them until they come online (for example, in TTKEM, c.f. Appendix F, user1
would have sampled and communicated key pairs for all nodes that are on the paths from thek
users’ leaves to the root). The protocolΠ is then left with a choice regarding the updates of users
2,...,α. Roughly, either:
(a) Each of the users2,...,αrebuild complete structure themselves (say, sample and communi-
cate their own key pairs for nodes on the paths from thek users’ leaves to the root, as user
1 would have done when adding them in TTKEM) to communicate with thek newly added
users; or
(b) At least one such useri does not (i.e., they only rebuild asymptotically incomplete structure
themselves) and thus relies on some asymptotically non-trivial amount of structure created
by the users that have executed operations before them to communicate with thek added
users.
We will however show that both (a) and (b) can be losing strategies; i.e., no matter if a protocol
Π chooses strategy (a) or (b) (or probabilistically favors one over the other), it can be starkly
outperformed by another protocol Π′when executing certain sequences (by the same amount in
both cases). In the case of (a), if after users 2,...,αexecute their updates, thek added users
come online and execute their own updates, then users 2,...,αall rebuilt complete structure
themselves unnecessarily – thek added users can themselves create structure which allows others
to communicate with them thereafter usingO(logn)communication each (for example, in TTKEM,
theywouldjustsamplekeypairsfortheirpaths). Thereforeifallsubsequentoperationsareupdates,
the communication of the protocol can easily stay low. So, ifΠ chose (a) then it communicated a
factor of Ω(k/ logn) more than it had to during the updates of Step2; or Ω(n/ logn) if k = Ω(n).
In Section 5.1, we formally deﬁne the distribution containing such sequences asActiveBad and in
Section 5.2 formally prove the statement of the previous sentence. (Technically, for fairness reasons
when comparing with the result of the next paragraph, we also account for the communication of a
certain number of updates after Step2. So the result, while qualitatively the same, is quantitatively
not as stark.)
In the case of (b) consider the scenario in which (i) one of theαactive users, userj, is randomly
selected to become passive for the remainder of the sequence, i.e., they never execute another
operation, then (ii) the otherα−1 active users perform𝓁rounds of taking turns executing updates.
25

If Π chose strategy (b) and userj is the one who only rebuilt asymptotically incomplete structure
themselves, then according to Corollary 3.2, each of the𝓁rounds of Step (ii) will have highΩ(k)
communication each. However, if strategy (a) had been chosen byΠ (and user 1 built complete
structure as well) then the communication of userj would allow for the𝓁rounds of Step (ii) to
be executed with low communication:O(αlogn) (using TTKEM-like updates; we explain more
later). So ifΠ chose (b) then in expectation, it communicated a factor ofΩ(𝓁k/(α·(kα+𝓁αlogn)))
more than it had to; orΩ(n/ logn) if k = Ω(n), 𝓁= Θ(n/ logn), andα=O(1). In Section 5.1, we
formally deﬁne the distribution containing such sequences asLazyBad and in Section 5.2 formally
prove the statement of the previous sentence (albeit with slightly diﬀerent concrete parameters for
k, 𝓁, andα).
5.1 Bad Sequences of Operations
We ﬁrst formally deﬁne the two distributions of sequences,LazyBad and ActiveBad, such that for
any CGKA protocolΠ, we can choose one of these distributions and it will be the case that there is
some Π′which has much lower expected communication thanΠ on that distribution. BothLazyBad
and ActiveBad are parameterized by:
• n: The number of users in the group before user1 adds the new users;
• PreAddSeq: The operations of the pre-add phase, i.e., the sequence ofvalid operations (the
ﬁrst operation isAdd to create the group, only users that are not in the group are added
by users in the group, only users in the group are removed by other users in the group, only
users in the group can execute an update, and at the end ofSeq the group hasn members)
to be executed before thek adds and subsequent operations ofActiveBad or LazyBad.
• k: The number of users added by user1;
• α: the number of active users after the ﬁrst of thek users is added; and
• 𝓁: For LazyBad, the number of rounds of updates in which one of the originally active users
is passive. We use𝓁in ActiveBad only to ensure that on input the same parameters, the two
types of sequences have the same length (for fairness reasons).
We deﬁne both types of sequences as distributions, even thoughActiveBad(n, PreAddSeq,k,α,𝓁) is
just one sequence (i.e., that sequence is drawn from the distributionActiveBad(n, PreAddSeq,k,α,𝓁)
with probability 1). In the following, we will assume that both n and k are powers of 2, for
simplicity. Also, we will often make the parameters n, k, α, and 𝓁implicit and simply refer
to ActiveBad(n, PreAddSeq,k,α,𝓁) as ActiveBad(PreAddSeq) and LazyBad(n, PreAddSeq,k,α,𝓁) as
LazyBad(PreAddSeq). We ﬁrst deﬁneLazyBad(PreAddSeq):
Deﬁnition5.1.A sequenceSeq of CGKA operations drawn from distributionLazyBad(n, PreAddSeq,
k,α,𝓁) consists of the following phases:
• Phase P0: The pre-add phase, i.e., the operationsOp1,..., OptA
1−1 of PreAddSeq.
• Phase P1: For i∈[k] operations Op1,i = (Add, PK1, PKn+i). Then operation Op1,k+1 =
(Up, PK1,⊥).
• Phase P2: Fori∈[α−1] operations Op2,i = (Up, PKi+1,⊥).
26

• Phase P3: Let j ←$ [α]. Then, for each m ∈[𝓁]: for every i < j (resp. i > j),
Op3,(m−1)(α−1)+i = (Up, PKi,⊥) (resp. Op3,(m−1)(α−1)+i−1 = (Up, PKi,⊥)), where PKi is
the most recent public key of useri.
Next, we deﬁneActiveBad(PreAddSeq), which has the same phases0−2 as LazyBad(PreAddSeq),
but diﬀers in phase3 as described above:
Deﬁnition 5.2.A sequence Seq of CGKA operations drawn from distribution ActiveBad(n,
PreAddSeq,k,α,𝓁) consists of the same phasesP0-P2 as above then:
• Phase P3: Fori∈[𝓁·(α−1)]: Op3,i = (Up, PKn+1+(i mod α),⊥), where PKn+1+(i mod α) is
the most recent public key of usern + 1 + (i mod α).
Note that by Theorem 3.1, for every CGKA protocol it must be that update Op1,k+1 =
(Up, PK1,⊥) in Phase P1 of either distribution requires Ω(k) communication, no matter what
the operations ofPreAddSeq were and what structure the adds of user1 in PhaseP1 created. Since
with O(k) communication, user 1 can in this update create full structure with which other users
in the group can communicate with the addedPKn+1...,PKn+αthereafter (as in TTKEM), it is
intuitively the best choice for a protocol to use this behavior for user1. Thus, since we aim to
deﬁne these two distributions in a way that emphasizes the diﬀerent choices protocols can make to
minimize communication, user1’s ﬁrst update is included in PhaseP1 and we deﬁne the commu-
nication complexity of a protocol executing a sequence drawn from one of these two distributions
to include only the communication costs of the operations in PhaseP2 and P3:
Deﬁnition 5.3. Let Seq be a sequence of CGKA operations drawn from distribution
LazyBad(PreAddSeq) (resp. ActiveBad(PreAddSeq)) and CCΠ [Op] be the communication cost of
a CGKA protocolΠ executing operation Op of Seq after executing all preceding operations ofSeq
in order. Then:
1. The amortized communication complexityof a protocolΠ that executes Seq is CCΠ [Seq] :=
(∑
Op∈P2∪P3 CCΠ [Op])/((α−1)·(𝓁+ 1)), where P2 and P3 are the corresponding phases in
Seq of LazyBad(PreAddSeq) (resp. ActiveBad(PreAddSeq)).
2. The expected amortized communication complexityof a protocol Π on random Seq drawn
from LazyBad(PreAddSeq) (resp. ActiveBad(PreAddSeq)) is
CCΠ (LazyBad(PreAddSeq)) := ESeq←$LazyBad(PreAddSeq)[CCΠ [Seq]]
(resp. CCΠ (ActiveBad(PreAddSeq)) := ESeq←$ActiveBad(PreAddSeq)[CCΠ [Seq]]),
where the randomness is over the choice ofSeq and the random coins ofΠ.
5.2 Suboptimality of all CGKA Protocols
We now state and prove our Theorem showing that all CGKA protocols must have suboptimal ex-
pectedamortizedcommunicationcomplexityoneither LazyBad(PreAddSeq)or ActiveBad(PreAddSeq).
First, we deﬁne a speciﬁcPreAddSeq which intuitively leaves the CGKA group in afull state:
Deﬁnition 5.4.Valid sequence of CGKA operationsFulln contains the following operations in or-
der: (Add, PK1, PK2), (Add, PK1, PK3),..., (Add, PK1, PKn), (Up, PK1,⊥), (Up, PK2,⊥),..., (Up,
PKn,⊥).
27

Theorem 5.5.Let𝓁=O(k/ logn). Then for every CGKA protocolΠ and every PreAddSeq, there
exists some other protocolΠ′such that either
CCΠ (LazyBad(PreAddSeq))≥CCΠ′(LazyBad(Fulln))·Ω(𝓁/α2), or
CCΠ (ActiveBad(PreAddSeq))≥CCΠ′(ActiveBad(Fulln))·Ω(k/𝓁logn).
Note thatPreAddSeq can be anyvalid sequence that results in a group withn members, includ-
ing (but not limited to)Fulln. As will be seen, our results combine general lower bounds for the
considered protocol Π on any PreAddSeq, with upper bounds for protocolsΠ′on speciﬁcallyFulln.
Before proving the Theorem, we separate CGKA protocolsΠ into two classes based on their ex-
pectedbehaviorinphase P2ofasequencedrawnfrom LazyBad(PreAddSeq)or ActiveBad(PreAddSeq).
The ﬁrst class of protocols are more likely than not to have somelazy user in phaseP2: i.e., a user
whose update operation Op2,i = (Up, PKi+1,⊥) in phase P2 has communication cost CCΠ [Op] =
o(k). The other class of protocols are the opposite – they are more likely than not to have only
heavy users in phaseP2: i.e., all users have update operationsOp2,i = (Up, PKi+1,⊥) in phase P2
with communication costCCΠ [Op] = Ω(k).
Deﬁnition 5.6.CGKA protocolΠ is Lazy if Pr[∃i∈[α−1] : CCΠ [Op2,i] =o(k)]> 1/2. Otherwise,
Π is Active.
We ﬁrst show that there is a protocolΠ Active that has eﬃcient communication on sequences drawn
from LazyBad(Fulln).
Lemma 5.7. There is a protocol Π Active that has expected amortized communication cost
CCΠ Active(LazyBad(Fulln)) =O(k/𝓁+ logn) on random Seq drawn fromLazyBad(n, Fulln,k,α,𝓁).
Proof. The protocolΠ Active simply executes in phasesP0and P1as TTKEM does (c.f. Appendix F).
It is easy to see that for anySeq drawn from LazyBad(n, Fulln,k,α,𝓁), after phaseP1 all nodes on
the paths of added users’ (PKn+1,..., PKn+k) leaves to the root are tainted by user1, and all other
nodes are untainted. Then, in phaseP2 each of the users that executeUp(PKi) behave as user1
did in phaseP1, except that they refresh those nodes that are on the direct path of their own leaf,
instead of user1’s leaf: i.e., they each independently refresh the tainted nodes of user1 (those on
the paths from the leaves corresponding toPKn+1,..., PKn+k) in addition to the nodes on their
direct path. Since there areO(k + logn) such nodes, it can easily be seen that each suchUp(PKi)
can be done with communication costCCΠ [Op] = O(k + logn) (by systematically generating new
secrets for each node and decrypting it to the public keys of its children, from the bottom of the
tree to the top) and thus the total communication cost of phaseP2 is O((k + logn)·α). Then, in
phase P3, the users that executeUp(PKi) in each of the𝓁repetitions simply refresh the nodes on
their direct path and use the public keys generated by the userj that remains passive in phaseP3
(i.e., does not execute any operations) to communicate with the added usersPKn+1,..., PKn+k; all
other key pairs on the added users’ paths are never again used. Therefore, the total communication
cost of phaseP3 is O(𝓁·α·logn). Thus, CCΠ Active(LazyBad) =O(k/𝓁+ logn).
The security of Π Active follows almost immediately from the security of TTKEM and thus we
omit a formal proof for brevity. Informally, the security of phasesP0 and P1 follows directly from
the security of TTKEM. Now, assume that when phaseP2 begins, all users outside of users1,...,α
that have been corrupted by the adversary have since executed anUp operation and they are never
corrupted by the adversary again. If this is not the case, then security of the subsequent operations
28

is not required for any CGKA protocolΠ since, by correctness, the adversary can recover all group
secrets of these operations. There are two scenarios to consider: First, if the chosen passive user
j is corrupted after its update Up(PKj) of phase P2, then anyway for any CGKA protocol Π,
security of the operations in phaseP3 is not required, as above. Otherwise, ifj is not corrupted
after its update Up(PKj) of phase P2, then the key pairs that it generates for those nodes that
are on the paths from the leaves corresponding toPKn+1,..., PKn+k remain secure. Additionally,
the users that execute operationsUp(PKi) in phase P3 simply no longer encrypt to the key pairs
generated by usersm other than userj for these nodes, so even if some such userm is corrupted,
no secrets are encrypted to such key pairs it has generated. Moreover, they otherwise execute their
update according to TTKEM, so their updates facilitate recovery as in TTKEM, and thus security
follows.
Now we show that those protocolsΠ that areLazy do not have eﬃcient communication on sequences
drawn from LazyBad(PreAddSeq) for any PreAddSeq.
Lemma 5.8.For every protocolΠ that isLazy and everyPreAddSeq, the expected total communica-
tion costCCΠ (LazyBad(PreAddSeq)) = Ω(k/α2) on randomSeq drawn fromLazyBad(n, PreAddSeq,
k,α,𝓁).
Proof. Since Π is Lazy, with probability greater than1/2, one of the usersi who executesUp(PKi)
in phase P2 does so with communication costCCΠ [Op] = o(k). The probability that this user is
the userj randomly chosen in phaseP3 to remain passive (i.e., not execute any more operations)
for the rest of Seq is 1/α. If this is indeed the case, then by Corollary 3.2, since the update
of PKi had communication cost o(k), we know that each of the𝓁repetitions of phase P3 will
have total communication costΩ(k). Putting things together, we have that forLazy protocols Π,
CCΠ (LazyBad(PreAddSeq))> 1
2α·(𝓁·Ω(k))/O(α·𝓁) = Ω(k/α2).
Next we show that there is a protocolΠ Lazy that has eﬃcient communication on sequences drawn
from ActiveBad(Fulln).
Lemma 5.9. There is a protocol Π Lazy that has expected total communication cost
CCΠ Lazy(ActiveBad(Fulln)) =O(logn) on random Seq drawn fromActiveBad(n, Fulln,k,α,𝓁).
Proof. Π Lazy is simply TTKEM (c.f. Appendix F): It is easy to see that for any Seq drawn
from ActiveBad(n, Fulln,k,α,𝓁), after phase P1 all nodes that are on the paths of added users’
(PKn+1,..., PKn+k) leaves to the root are tainted by user1, and all other nodes are untainted.
Therefore, it is obvious that all operations Up(PKi) of P2 and P3 have communication cost
CCΠ [Op] = O(logn), since all such executing users own 0 taints. Thus CCΠ Lazy(ActiveBad) =
O(logn).
Finally, we show that those protocolsΠ that are Active do not have eﬃcient communication on
sequences drawn fromActiveBad(PreAddSeq) for any PreAddSeq.
Lemma 5.10. For every protocolΠ that is Active and every PreAddSeq, its expected total com-
munication cost CCΠ (ActiveBad(PreAddSeq)) = Ω( k/𝓁) on random Seq drawn from ActiveBad(n,
PreAddSeq,k,α,𝓁).
29

Proof. Since Π is Active, with probability at least1/2, all of the usersi that execute operations
Up(PKi) in phase P2 do so with communication costCCΠ [Op] = Ω(k). If this is the case, then we
know that phaseP2 has total communication costΩ(α·k). Putting things together, we have that
for Active protocols Π, CCΠ (ActiveBad(PreAddSeq))≥1
2·Ω(α·k)/O(α·𝓁) = Ω(k/𝓁).
Proof of Theorem 5.5.Combining the results of Lemmas 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, and 5.10, Theorem 5.5 easily
follows.
The following corollary thus easily follows:
Corollary 5.11. Letk = Ω(n), 𝓁= Θ(√n), andα=O(√logn). Then for every protocolΠ, there
exists some other protocolΠ′such that either on a random sequence drawn fromActiveBad(Fulln), or
from LazyBad(Fulln), Π′has a factor ofΩ(√n/ logn) better amortized communication in expectation
than Π does.
References
[1] Alwen, J., Auerbach, B., Noval, M.C., Klein, K., Pascual-Perez, G., Pietrzak, K., Walter, M.:
Cocoa: Concurrent continuous group key agreement. In: Advances in Cryptology - EURO-
CRYPT 2022 (2022)
[2] Alwen, J., Coretti, S., Dodis, Y.: The double ratchet: Security notions, proofs, and modular-
ization for the Signal protocol. In: Ishai, Y., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2019, Part I.
LNCS, vol. 11476, pp. 129–158. Springer, Heidelberg (May 2019)
[3] Alwen, J., Coretti, S., Dodis, Y., Tselekounis, Y.: Security analysis and improvements for
the IETF MLS standard for group messaging. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.)
CRYPTO 2020, Part I. LNCS, vol. 12170, pp. 248–277. Springer, Heidelberg (Aug 2020)
[4] Alwen, J., Coretti, S., Jost, D., Mularczyk, M.: Continuous group key agreement with active
security. In: Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020, Part II. LNCS, vol. 12551, pp. 261–290.
Springer, Heidelberg (Nov 2020)
[5] Alwen, J., Jost, D., Mularczyk, M.: On the insider security of mls. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2020/1327 (2020),https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1327
[6] Alwen, J., Capretto, M., Cueto, M., Kamath, C., Klein, K., Markov, I., Pascual-Perez, G.,
Pietrzak, K., Walter, M., Yeo, M.: Keep the dirt: Tainted treekem, adaptively and actively
secure continuous group key agreement. In: 2021 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy
(SP). IEEE (2021)
[7] Balli, F., Rösler, P., Vaudenay, S.: Determining the core primitive for optimally secure ratch-
eting. In: Moriai, S., Wang, H. (eds.) ASIACRYPT 2020, Part III. LNCS, vol. 12493, pp.
621–650. Springer, Heidelberg (Dec 2020)
[8] Barnes, R., Beurdouche, B., Robert, R., Millican, J., Omara, E., Cohn-Gordon, K.:
The Messaging Layer Security (MLS) Protocol. Internet-Draft draft-ietf-mls-protocol-14, In-
ternet Engineering Task Force (May 2022), https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
draft-ietf-mls-protocol-14, work in Progress
30

[9] Bhargavan, K., Barnes, R., Rescorla, E.: TreeKEM: Asynchronous Decentralized Key
Management for Large Dynamic Groups (2018), pubs/treekem.pdf, published at https:
//mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/mls/e3ZKNzPC7Gxrm3Wf0q96dsLZoD8
[10] Bienstock, A., Dodis, Y., Garg, S., Grogan, G., Hajiabadi, M., Rösler, P.: On the worst-case
ineﬃciency of CGKA. In: TCC 2022. LNCS, Springer (2022)
[11] Bienstock, A., Dodis, Y., Rösler, P.: On the price of concurrency in group ratcheting protocols.
In: Pass, R., Pietrzak, K. (eds.) TCC 2020, Part II. LNCS, vol. 12551, pp. 198–228. Springer,
Heidelberg (Nov 2020)
[12] Bienstock, A., Dodis, Y., Tang, Y.: Multicast key agreement, revisited. In: Galbraith, S.D.
(ed.) Topics in Cryptology – CT-RSA 2022. pp. 1–25. Springer International Publishing, Cham
(2022)
[13] Bienstock, A., Dodis, Y., Yeo, K.: Forward secret encrypted ram: Lower bounds and applica-
tions. In: TCC 2021: 19th Theory of Cryptography Conference (2021)
[14] Bienstock, A., Fairoze, J., Garg, S., Mukherjee, P., Raghuraman, S.: A more complete analysis
of the signal double ratchet algorithm. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/355 (2022),
https://ia.cr/2022/355
[15] Boneh, D., Papakonstantinou, P.A., Rackoﬀ, C., Vahlis, Y., Waters, B.: On the impossibility
of basing identity based encryption on trapdoor permutations. In: 49th FOCS. pp. 283–292.
IEEE Computer Society Press (Oct 2008)
[16] Boneh, D., Zhandry, M.: Multiparty key exchange, eﬃcient traitor tracing, and more from
indistinguishability obfuscation. In: Garay, J.A., Gennaro, R. (eds.) CRYPTO 2014, Part I.
LNCS, vol. 8616, pp. 480–499. Springer, Heidelberg (Aug 2014)
[17] Canetti, R., Garay, J., Itkis, G., Micciancio, D., Naor, M., Pinkas, B.: Multicast security: a
taxonomy and some eﬃcient constructions. In: IEEE INFOCOM ’99. Conference on Computer
Communications. Proceedings. Eighteenth Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer
and Communications Societies. The Future is Now (Cat. No.99CH36320). vol. 2, pp. 708–716
vol.2 (1999)
[18] Canetti, R., Jain, P., Swanberg, M., Varia, M.: Universally composable end-to-end secure
messaging. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2022/376 (2022),https://ia.cr/2022/376
[19] Canetti, R., Kalai, Y.T., Paneth, O.: On obfuscation with random oracles. In: Dodis, Y.,
Nielsen, J.B. (eds.) TCC 2015, Part II. LNCS, vol. 9015, pp. 456–467. Springer, Heidelberg
(Mar 2015)
[20] Chung, K.M., Lin, H., Mahmoody, M., Pass, R.: On the power of nonuniformity in proofs of
security. In: Kleinberg, R.D. (ed.) ITCS 2013. pp. 389–400. ACM (Jan 2013)
[21] Cohn-Gordon, K., Cremers, C., Dowling, B., Garratt, L., Stebila, D.: A formal security
analysis of the signal messaging protocol. In: 2017 IEEE European Symposium on Security
and Privacy (EuroS P). pp. 451–466 (2017)
31

[22] Cohn-Gordon, K., Cremers, C., Garratt, L., Millican, J., Milner, K.: On ends-to-ends encryp-
tion: Asynchronous group messaging with strong security guarantees. In: Lie, D., Mannan,
M., Backes, M., Wang, X. (eds.) ACM CCS 2018. pp. 1802–1819. ACM Press (Oct 2018)
[23] Coretti, S., Dodis, Y., Guo, S., Steinberger, J.P.: Random oracles and non-uniformity. In:
Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2018, Part I. LNCS, vol. 10820, pp. 227–258.
Springer, Heidelberg (Apr / May 2018)
[24] Dodis, Y., Guo, S., Katz, J.: Fixing cracks in the concrete: Random oracles with auxiliary
input, revisited. In: Coron, J.S., Nielsen, J.B. (eds.) EUROCRYPT 2017, Part II. LNCS, vol.
10211, pp. 473–495. Springer, Heidelberg (Apr / May 2017)
[25] Dowling, B., Hauck, E., Riepel, D., Rösler, P.: Strongly anonymous ratcheted key exchange.
In: ASIACRYPT 2022. LNCS (2022)
[26] Garg, S., Hajiabadi, M., Mahmoody, M., Mohammed, A.: Limits on the power of garbling
techniques for public-key encryption. In: Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) CRYPTO 2018,
Part III. LNCS, vol. 10993, pp. 335–364. Springer, Heidelberg (Aug 2018)
[27] Gennaro, R., Trevisan, L.: Lower bounds on the eﬃciency of generic cryptographic construc-
tions. In: 41st FOCS. pp. 305–313. IEEE Computer Society Press (Nov 2000)
[28] Harney, H., Muckenhirn, C.: Rfc2093: Group key management protocol (gkmp) speciﬁcation
(1997)
[29] Mittra, S.: Iolus: A framework for scalable secure multicasting. In: Proceedings of the ACM
SIGCOMM ’97 Conference on Applications, Technologies, Architectures, and Protocols for
Computer Communication. p. 277–288. SIGCOMM ’97, Association for Computing Machinery,
New York, NY, USA (1997),https://doi.org/10.1145/263105.263179
[30] Perrin, T., Marlinspike, M.: The double ratchet algorithm (2016), https://signal.org/
docs/specifications/doubleratchet/
[31] Poettering, B., Rösler, P., Schwenk, J., Stebila, D.: SoK: Game-based security models for
group key exchange. In: Paterson, K.G. (ed.) CT-RSA 2021. LNCS, vol. 12704, pp. 148–176.
Springer, Heidelberg (May 2021)
[32] Rösler, P., Mainka, C., Schwenk, J.: More is less: On the end-to-end security of group chats in
signal, whatsapp, and threema. In: 2018 IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy,
EuroS&P 2018 (2018)
[33] Sherman, A.T., McGrew, D.A.: Key establishment in large dynamic groups using one-way
function trees. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 29(5), 444–458 (2003)
[34] Smart, N.P.: Eﬃcient key encapsulation to multiple parties. In: Blundo, C., Cimato, S. (eds.)
SCN 04. LNCS, vol. 3352, pp. 208–219. Springer, Heidelberg (Sep 2005)
[35] Wallner, D., Harder, E., Agee, R.: Rfc2627: Key management for multicast: Issues and
architectures (1999)
32

[36] Weidner, M., Kleppmann, M., Hugenroth, D., Beresford, A.R.: Key agreement for decentral-
ized secure group messaging with strong security guarantees. In: Vigna, G., Shi, E. (eds.)
ACM CCS 2021. pp. 2024–2045. ACM Press (Nov 2021)
[37] Wong, C.K., Gouda, M., Lam, S.S.: Secure group communications using key graphs. In: Pro-
ceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM ’98 Conference on Applications, Technologies, Architectures,
and Protocols for Computer Communication. p. 68–79. SIGCOMM ’98, Association for Com-
puting Machinery, New York, NY, USA (1998),https://doi.org/10.1145/285237.285260
A Omitted Preliminaries
Lemma A.1.Letx1,...,xr be independent boolean random variables where for alli∈[r], Pr[xi =
1]≥p. Then, Pr[x1 =···=xr = 0]≤1
epr.
Proof. For all realx: 1 +x≤ex, and hence(1−p)≤e−p.
The black-box attack against CKE protocols makes use of the following lemma about output
compression with respect to random oracles. The proof of this result uses a simple adaptation
of the output compression technique from [24] (which, in turn, goes back to [27]), developed in
the context of the auxiliary random oracle model. We simply tweak the parameters to match our
precise setting.
Lemma A.2. Let A = (Ag
0, Ae
1) be a two-phase adversary, whereAg
0(1λ) outputs a stringx0 while
only calling g, and Ae
1(x0) outputs a string x1 while only calling e. Let Bg,u,v,d(x0,x 1) be an
adversary that takes as input (x0,x 1), makes some number of queries to(g, u, v, d) (but not to
e) and outputs a setChal ={(pk1,c 1),..., (pkw,cw)}. We say the eventSuccess holds if (i)w≥
⌈2|x1|
3λ⌉+ 1; (ii) all the pairs are distinct, and (iii) for alli∈[w] v(pki,ci) = ⊤. We then have
Pr[Success]≤2−λ/2 = negl(λ), where the probability is taken over(g, e, d, u, v)←$ Ψ and the
random coins ofA and B.
Proof. (Sketch) As in all output compression results, we will show that the existence of such
algorithms A, B, where B’s probability of success isε= 2−λ/2, leads to a pair of (computationally
unbounded) compression/decompression algorithmsC and D which successfully compress a random
function e :{0, 1}3λ×{0, 1}×{0, 1}λ→{0, 1}3λin a provably impossible way. Namely: (1) the
output ofC(e) will save more thanlog(1/ε) bits compared to the length ofe; (3)D can successfully
recover e with probability 1−εon the (“short”) output of the compressorC(e).
In our case, we can ﬁx random oracles(g, u, v, d) and local randomness ofA, B, and only focus
on compressing e. Our compressor C(e) will emulate the run A, B, and will only succeed when
A, B jointly producew values Chal ={(pk1,c 1),..., (pkw,cw)}satisfying conditions (i)-(iii) of the
Lemma. Inparticular, condition(iii)impliesthatforeachofthe w values (pki,ci)thereexistsinputs
(mi,ri)∈{0, 1}×{0, 1}λs.t. e(pki,mi,ri) = ci. Our compressor C(e) will then output: (a) the
compression stringx1 output by Ae
1(x0); (b) the setIn ={(m1,r 1),..., (mw,rw)}in lexicographic
order; (c) in lexicographic order, the set of all other outputs ofe except forw “special” input points
(pki,mi,ri).
We need to check two things now. First, that the output ofC(e) is enough forD to reconstruct
e (when A, B succeed). Second, that the output ofC(e) is too short under the conditions of the
Lemma. For the ﬁrst part, notice thatD has all the information it needs to successfully complete
33

the run of A, B, and thus obtain the setChal ={(pk1,c 1),..., (pkw,cw)}. This is so because x1
is the only string which depended one, and C(e) was considerate enough to provide it in (a).
Coupled with the setIn ={(m1,r 1),..., (mw,rw)}provided by the compressor in (b),D now has
all the information to ﬁgure out thew input/output relationships missing in (c): namely, that
e(pki,mi,ri) =ci for alli.
It remains to argue that under the conditions (i) of the Lemma,C(e) would save more than
log(1/ε) bits. Namely, the naive representation ofw outputs compressed in parts (a)+(b) of the
compression string is3λwbits. However,C(e) only spent|x1|+w(1 +λ) bits. Thus, we must have
that:
|x1|+w(1 +λ) + log(1/ε)≥3wλ
Recalling that we setw = (⌈2|x1|
3λ⌉+ 1), we get that|x1|≥3(w−1)λ/2, and thus
3(w−1)λ/2 +w(1 +λ) + log(1/ε)≥3wλ
This easily implieslog(1/ε)≥wλ/2≥λ/2, orε≤2−λ/2.
Lemma A.3.LetX1,...,Xt+1 be independent, Bernoulli random variables, wherePr[Xi = 1] =p,
for alli≤t + 1. Then
Pr[X1 = 0∧···∧Xt = 0∧Xt+1 = 1]≤1
t.
Deﬁnition A.4(Heavy queries/responses). Suppose Af(1λ) is an oracle-aided algorithm with ac-
cess to an oraclef. We say a queryqu isp-heavy if the probability thatqu is asked during a random
execution of Af(1λ) is at leastp. We say a responsey is ap-heavy response if the probability that
a query/answer of the form (∗− →
f
y) occurs during a random execution ofAf(1λ) is at leastp.
We say a set of query/answer pairsFreq contains a query qu if (qu− →
f
∗)∈Freq. We say a set
of query/answer pairs Freq contains a responsey if (∗− →
f
y)∈Freq. Notice that ify has several
pre-images (i.e., severalx1,...,xw such thatf(xi) =y for alli∈[w]), as long asFreq has at least
one of those preimages (i.e., for somei∈[w]: (xi− →
f
y)∈Freq), we sayFreq contains the response
y. That is, Freq does not need to contain all the pre-images ofy to deemy contained inFreq.
Lemma A.5 (Heavy query/response learner). Suppose Af(1λ) is an oracle-aided algorithm with
access to an oraclef, makingt :=t(λ)∈poly(λ) queries. Supposep = 1
poly(λ), and letη≥ω(logλ)
p .
Let Freq be the set of all query/answer pairs generated duringηrandom executions of Af(1λ).
With probability at least1− 1
2ω(log(λ)), the setFreq contains both allp-heavy queries qu and p-heavy
responsesy.
Proof. We show that for anyp-heavy query qu the probability that qu does not occur duringη
random executions is at most 1
eω(logλ). Similarly, we show that for anyp-heavy response y, the
probability thaty never occurs as a response duringηrandom executions is at most 1
eω(logλ). Since
the number ofp-heavy queries andp-heavy responses is at most2t2/p = poly(λ) in total (see below
on why), the probability of missing at least onep-heavy query qu or at least onep-heavy response
y is at most poly(λ)
eω(logλ)≤ 1
2ω(logλ), as desired.
To see why we have at mostt2/p = poly(λ)p-heavy queries, note that ifqu isp-heavy, then for
some indexi∈[t]: qu isithp/t-heavy (i.e., the probability that theith query isqu is at leastp/t).
34

For any indexi∈[t] we have at mostt/p queries which areith p/t-heavy. Thus, we have at most
t2/p = poly(λ) queries which are globallyp-heavy.
Similarly, if an outputy is ap-heavy response, then, by deﬁnition, the probability thaty occurs
as a response to a query during a random execution ofAf(1λ) is at leastp. Thus, for some index
i∈[t]: y is anith p/t-heavy response; namely, the probability that the output of theith query is
y is at leastp/t. For anyi∈[t] we have at mostt/p responses which areith p/t-heavy response.
Thus, we have at mostt2/p = poly(λ) responses which are globallyp-heavy.
For ap-heavy query qu and i∈[η] let xi = 0 if qu does not occur during theith execution of
Af(1λ). By Lemma A.1, the probability thatqu does not appear during any of theηexecutions is
at most 1
epη≤ 1
eω(logλ).
Similarly, for ap-heavy responsey, letxi = 0 if y does not occur as a response during theith
execution of Af(1λ). By Lemma A.1, the probability thaty never appears as a response duringη
executions is at most 1
epη≤ 1
eω(logλ).
Lemma A.6. Let Af(1λ), t and p = 1
poly(λ) be as in Lemma A.5. Let Freq be the set of all
query/answer pairs generated duringηrandom executions ofAf(1λ), whereη≥ω(logλ)
p . Let Q be
a set of query/answer pairs generated during a random execution ofAf(1λ), made independently of
Freq. Let L be a set oft queries made independently ofQ. Then the probability that there exists a
query in L which also appears inQ\Freq is at most 1
2ω(log(λ)) +tp.
Proof. Let Bad be the event we need to bound. We let Collect be the event that all p-heavy
queries are collected byFreq. By Lemma A.5,Pr[Collect]≤ 1
2ω(log(λ)). Assuming Collect holds, the
probability that any ﬁxed query ofL appears in Q\Freq is at mostp, and so the probability that
some query ofL appears in Q\Freq is at mosttp. Thus,
Pr[Bad]≤Pr[Collect] + Pr[Bad|Collect]≤ 1
2ω(log(λ)) +tp, (1)
as desired.
Lemma A.7 (Intersection queries/responses learner). Let Af(1λ) be an oracle-aided algorithm
making t :=t(λ)∈poly(λ) queries. Supposep = 1
poly(λ), and letη≥ω(logλ)
p . Let Freq be formed by
recording all query/answer pairs made duringηrandom executions ofAf(1λ). Let Q1 and Q2 be
the sets of query/answer pairs made during two random independent executions ofAf(1λ). We say
Q1 and Q2 have an intersection query if(Q1\ Q2)⁄=∅. We say Q1 and Q2 have an intersection
response, if there exists somey such that y occurs as a response in both Q1 and Q2; namely,
(∗− →
f
y)∈Q1 and (∗− →
f
y)∈Q2. The probability that there exists an intersection query or an
intersection response betweenQ1 and Q2 which is not picked up byFreq is at most 2tp + 1
2ω(logλ).
That is,
Pr[(((Q1\ Q2)\Freq))⁄=∅)

(∃y s.t. (∗− →
f
y)∈Q1∧(∗− →
f
y)∈Q2∧(∗− →
f
y) /∈Freq)]≤
2tp + 1
2ω(logλ)
Proof. Let Intersect be the probability of the event we want to bound. By Lemma A.5 the probabil-
ity of the event,Pick, that allp-heavy queriesqu and allp-heavy responsesy are picked up byFreq
35

is at leastα:= 1− 1
2ω(logλ). Assuming Pick, the probability that any ﬁxed queryqu of Q1 appears
in Q2\Freq is at mostp. The reason is that sincePick holds and qu /∈Freq, the query qu is not
p-heavy, hence occurring with probability at mostp during another random execution. Similarly,
the probability that any ﬁxed responsey contained in Q1 also appears in Q2\Freq is at mostp.
Assuming Pick, the probability there existsqu∈Q1 such that qu∈Q2\Freq is at mosttp, by the
union bound. Similarly, assumingPick, the probability there exists a responsey in Q1 such thaty
also appears inQ2\Freqis at mosttp. Thus, Pr[Intersect]≤ 1
2ω(logλ) +(1− 1
2ω(logλ) )2tp≤2tp+ 1
2ω(logλ).
The proof is now complete.
Lemma A.8(Hitting the image of random injective function). Let Af(1λ) be a polynomial-query
algorithm with access to an oraclef :{0, 1}λ→{0, 1}3λchosen uniformly at random from the set
of all functions from{0, 1}λto{0, 1}3λ. The adversary A at the end outputst points. We have
Pr[(y1,...,yt)←$ Af(1λ) and∃i∈[t] and x s.t. yi =O(x)∧(∗− →
O
yi) /∈QA]≤2−2λ,
where the probability is taken over the random choice off as well asA’s random coins, and where
QA is the set of allA’s query-answer pairs.
B Omitted Proofs from Section 4
Proof of Lemma 4.14.We prove this fori = 1. We will use Lemma A.6. For this proof, letFreq
denote the value ofFreq right after Line 2 (and before executing Line 3) ofBrk’s execution. If the
event Empty1 occurs, there must exist a queryqu := (sk− →g pk)∈QGen1 such that (a)qu /∈Freq
and (sk− →g ∗)∈Forbid, or (b)(∗− →g pk)∈Forbid and (∗− →g pk) /∈Freq. If neither (a) nor (b) holds,
there will always exist a(~SKi, g′
i) as per line 4a ofBrk’s computation. Letp = λ0.1
η and notice that
η≥ω(logλ)
p .
Deﬁne a setL of queries as follows:
• For any(sk− →g ∗)∈Forbid, add (sk− →g ?) to L; and
• for any (∗− →g pk)∈Forbid, if g−1(pk)⁄=⊥, add (sk− →g ?) to L, where sk = g−1(pk).14
If the eventEmpty1 occurs, then the eventE deﬁned asQuery(QGen1\Freq)\ L⁄=∅holds.
Since the setForbid, as well asL, are formed independently ofQGen1, and thatL has most2η′λ
elements, invoking Lemma A.6 forp = λ0.1
η and t :=|L|≤2η′λ
Pr[Empty1]≤Pr[E]≤ 1
2ω(logλ) + 2λ1.1η′
η . (2)
Proof of Lemma 4.15.We prove this for a ﬁxed value ofh (say,h = 1), and the overall bound will
follow via a union bound, via an additional multiplicative factor ofn. Recall that Agree is the
event that the union setS := QC∪QEnc∪i⁄=1 QGeni agrees with g′
1, where QEnc, QC and QGeni
14Since g is chosen at random and has a sparse range, there will exist at most one pre-image, with all but negligible
probability.
36

are deﬁned in Notation 4.12. First, notice thatg′
1 always agrees withQEnc, because the former has
only g-type queries, while the latter hase-type queries. Thus, we need to bound the probability
that for any(x− →g y)∈QC∪i⁄=1 QGeni, either (x− →g ∗) /∈g′
1 or (x− →g y)∈g′
1.
We break up the eventAgree into Agree1 and Agree2. We let Agree1 be the event QC agrees
with g′
1, and letAgree2 be the eventS′:=∪i⁄=1QGeni agrees with g′
1.
We ﬁrst bound the probability ofAgree1. Let P be the process performed in each itera-
tion of Line 3 of Brk, namely the process of sampling a fresh(PK,∗) and running (~SK, g′)←$
ConsOrc(PK, Freq, Forbid), and updatingForbidaccordingly. Notice that(~SK1, g′
1) of Line 4a ofBrk
is sampled according to the same process. We say an iteration of the processP is Good if either
(a) the sampledg′in that iteration is empty; or (b)Query(g′)\ Query(QC\Freq) =∅. Otherwise,
we say that iteration ofP is Bad. The event Agree1 is the event that the iteration corresponding
to (~SK1, g′
1) in Line 4a isBad. Also, notice that since|QC|=λ, we have at mostλBad iterations.
The reason for this is that if for some iteration the eventBad happens, then the particular query
of QC which caused Bad is added toForbid, and so the same query cannot makeBad happen in a
future iteration. Now since the iteration for(~SK1, g′) is the(γ+ 1)’s iteration, whereγ←$ [η′], the
probability that that iteration isBad is at mostλ
η′. Thus, Pr[Agree1]≤λ
η′.
We now bound the eventAgree2. Notice ifAgree1 holds, there must exist a query ing′
1 that also
appears in QGeni\Freq for somei> 1. Let p = λ0.1
η and notice thatη≥ω(logp)
p . Since QGeni for
all i∈{2,...,n}is formed independently ofg′
1, applying Lemma A.6 forp and η, the probability
there is an intersection betweeng′
1 and (∪i⁄=1QGeni)\Freq is at most 1
2ω(log(λ)) +nλ1.1
η. Here we used
the fact that|∪i⁄=1 QGeni|<nλ.
Proof of Lemma 4.16.Weproveitfor i = 1. Theproofworksexactlyasthatofbounding Pr[Agree1]
in Lemma 4.15. So, we repeat the argument with the necessary modiﬁcations. Let P be the
process performed in each iteration of Line 3 ofBrk, namely the process of sampling a fresh(PK,∗)
and running (~SK, g′)←$ ConsOrc(PK, Freq, Forbid), and updating Forbid accordingly. Notice that
(~SK1, g′
1) of Line 4a ofBrk is sampled according to the same process. We say an iteration of the
process P is Good if either (a) the sampled g′in that iteration is empty; or (b) there does not
exist a query/answer pair (∗− →g pk)∈g′such that (∗− →g pk)∈QA\ Freq. Otherwise, we say
that iteration ofP is Bad. The event Surprise1 is the event that the iteration corresponding to
(~SK1, g′
1) in Line 4a isBad. Also, notice that since|QC|= λ, we have at mostλBad processes.
The reason for this is that if for some iteration the eventBad happens, then the particular public
key pk of QC which causedBad is added toForbid, and so the samepk cannot makeBad happen in
a future iteration. Now since the iteration for(~SK1, g′) is the (γ+ 1)’s iteration, whereγ←$ [η′],
the probability that that iteration isBad is at mostλ
η′.
Proof of Lemma 4.17.We show whenever the eventSpoof holds, we can forge a public keypk in
the sense of Lemma A.8, implying the bound of 1
22λ. We build an adversary A in the sense of
Lemma A.8, as follows. The adversaryA will generate all(PK1,..., PKn), which are the input to
Brk, by running CRS←$ CRSGeng(1λ) and (PKi,∗)←$ Initg(CRS). Then A performs the steps
of Brk up until producingg′
1,..., g′
n – while populatingFreq as in Brk’s procedure. At this point
notice that all queries made tog by A thus far are either contained inQA∪QGen1∪···∪QGenn
or in Freq. Thus, if the eventSpoof holds, then A has indeed forged apk.
37

Proof of Lemma 4.19.We claimPr[Evnt2∧Surprise∧Spoof∧Intersect]≤negl(λ). Assuming this,
by Lemmas 4.16, 4.17, 4.14, 4.18
Pr[Surprise∨Spoof∨Intersect]≤nλ
η′+ 1
22λ+ 2n2λ1.1
η + n2
2ω(logλ). (3)
Assuming η′≥nλc+1 and η≥nη′λ1.1+c,
Pr[Surprise∨Spoof∨Intersect]≤4
λc. (4)
Thus, Pr[Evnt2]≤5
λc, as desired.
To prove the above claim, we show whenever all the events
Evnt2∧Surprise∧Spoof∧Intersect
hold, we can build a forger in the sense of Lemma A.2. The desired bound will then follow.
Since Evnt2 holds, Forge = 1 . Let Chal := {(pk1,c 2),..., (pkn,cn)}be the set of public
key/ciphertexts built up by Brk. To apply Lemma A.2, think of (PK1,..., PKn) as x0, of C as
x1, and ofChal as the challenge set required by the lemma. First, note that a forgerBg,u,v,d(x0,x 1)
may indeed eﬃciently computeChal, because Brk never makes e queries, so Brk can be simulated
by B. We have to ensure: (i)n≥⌈2|C|
3λ⌉+ 1; (ii) all the pairs inChal are distinct, and (iii) for all
i∈[n] v(pki,ci) =⊤. Condition (i) holds because|C|≤3λ(n−1)
2 , by assumption. Condition (iii)
holds by the check (4(c)i) made byBrk.
We now show Condition (ii) holds. We will prove a stronger statement by showing that in
fact all pki’s in the setChal are distinct.15 For anyi∈[n], we claim: (a) (∗− →g pki)∈g′
i, (b)
(∗− →g pki) /∈Freq, and (c) pki∈g(∗). Conditions (a) and (b) hold because otherwise none of
the sub-bullets of Line 4c (and in particular Line 4(c)iii) would be hit, and so(pki,ci) would not
be added to Chal. Also, (c) holds because otherwise Line (4(c)ii) ofBrk would be hit, and hence
(pki,ci) would not be added toChal.
Nowsince Spoof holds, Condition(a)and(c)implythatforsome ski, (ski− →g pki)∈∪i∈[n]QGeni∪
QC∪Freq. Since (b) holds,(∗− →g pki)∈∪i∈[n]QGeni∪QC. Since Surprise and (b) hold,(∗− →g pki)∈
∪i∈[n]QGeni. Finally, since (b) andIntersect hold, for all distincti and j: pki⁄= pkj. Indeed, since
we already know(∗− →g pki)∈QGeni\Freq and (∗− →g pkj)∈QGenj\Freq, if pki = pkj, then the
assumption that Intersect holds will be violated. The proof is now complete.
C CKE Impossibility from Black-Box PKE: General Case
In this section, we present the general attack against CKE constructions that make use of the oracles
in arbitrary ways. To make proofs simpler, we assume that the CKE protocol is in acomplied form,
with oracle access as(CRSGeng,e, Initg,e, Commg,e, Deriveg,e,d). Namely, we assume that no calls
to d are made byCRSGen, Init and Comm. One may put any protocol into this compiled form by
using standard compilation techniques [19, 26]. First, notice that we might assume thatCRSGen
15In order for Lemma A.2 to apply it suﬃces to prove that the pairs are distinct.
38

makes no d queries, because answers to such queries can be predicted. Next, forInit we might
assume that it does not make anyd queries that it knows the answers to already (i.e., any query
((sk,c )− →
d
?) such that Init has already produced a query/response pair((pk,∗,∗)− →e c), where
pk := g(sk)). Thus, the only non-trivial decryption queries are of the form((sk,c )− →
d
?) where c
was generated byCRS←$ CRSGen(1λ). Here is where the idea of compilations comes into play: we
might compileCRSGen and Init such thatCRSGen will sample many random executions ofInit in
its head and will collect all decryption queries appearing there; then, it will append the answers to
all such queries intoCRS. This way we can changeInit so that it will make no decryption queries.
Similarly, we can get rid ofd queries forComm, since both preceding algorithms (namely,CRSGen
and Init) can run many executions ofComm and provide decryption answers as part of their local
outputs. Finally, we note that the reason we cannot do this step of ridding ofd queries as easily
for Derive is that Derive takes in a private key, which is not available to the previous algorithms.
For our general case we need a more general version of the output compression lemma, as given
below. Informally, under this more general version, we allow the forger to calle, but it should forge
public key/ciphertexts pairs that are not generated as part ofe queries. Due to this restriction, the
proof template of Lemma A.2 still holds in this more general case, and we get the following more
general variant (whose proof is omitted).
Lemma C.1.Let Ag,e be an arbitrary adversary that makes a number of queries and outputs an ‘ad-
vice’ stringx. Let Bg,e,u,v,d(x) be an adversary that takes as inputx, makes queries to(g, e, u, v, d)
and outputs a setChal ={(pk1,c 1),..., (pkw,cw)}. Suppose Q is the set of all queries/responses
made by B. We say Chal is non-trivial if for noi∈[w], ((pki,∗,∗)− →e ci)∈Q. We say the event
Success holds if (i) w ≥ ⌈2|x|
3λ⌉+ 1; (ii) all the pairs in Chal are distinct, (iii) for all i∈[w]
v(pki,ci) =⊤and (iv) Chal is non-trivial. We then havePr[Success] = negl(λ), where the proba-
bility is taken over(g, e, d, u, v)←$ Ψ and the random coins ofA and B.
For the general attack, we need to enhance the frequent queries learner, so that it also learns
the heavy queries ofComm, in addition to those ofInit.
Deﬁnition C.2(Sampling frequent queries). We deﬁne a probabilistic oracle procedureFreqPubO:
• Input: (CRS,η), whereηis an integer.
• Output: A set of query/response pairs Freq sampled as follows. Let Freq = ∅. Do the
following ηtimes, and record all query/answer pairs inFreq.
1. Sample n public keys PK1,..., PKn by running Initg,e(CRS) n diﬀerent times.
2. Execute Commg,e(PK1,..., PKn).
We also need a procedure that allows us to super-impose a set of encryption queriesQc (sampled
independently of e) into e, in such a way that the super-imposed encryption oracle,eimp, agrees
with Qc, and with e as much as possible, and also thateimp has a corresponding super-imposed
decryption oracle.
Deﬁnition C.3.Let O := (g, e, d) be a Ψ-valid oracle and let
Qc :={{((pk1,b 1,r 1)− →e c1),..., ((pkw,bw,rw)− →e cw)}}
39

be a set ofe-type query answer pairs, which may not agree withe. We deﬁne(eimp, dimp) := Qc♦∗O,
obtained by super-imposingQc on O, as follows.
First, let W ={(pk1,c 1),..., (pkp,cp)}and
W′={(pk1, e(pk1,b 1,r 1)),..., (pkp, e(pkp,bp,rp))}.
Deﬁne
eimp(pk,b,r ) =



ci if (pk,b,r ) = (pki,bi,ri), for somei∈[w]
ˆc else if (pk, e(pk,b,r ))∈W,
e(pk,b,r ) otherwise
(5)
where ˆc is deﬁned as follows: Lettingx be the smallest integer such that(pk, e(pk,b,r +x)) /∈W∪W′
we set ˆc = e(pk,b,r +x). Here,r +x is done using a standard method.
dimp(sk,c ) =
{
bi if g(sk) = pki and c =ci for some 1≤i≤w
d(sk,c ) otherwise (6)
C.0.1 Description of the Attacker
We now give the CKE attacker for the general case. The attacker will at the end output a
(polynomial-sized) set of keys, and we will be interested in the probability that the set contains the
shared key. Since the set has a polynomial number of keys, we can also guess the correct key with
a non-negligible probability, assuming that the set has indeed the correct key.
Brkg,e,d,u,v(CRS, PK1,..., PKn,C ) :
1. Let DecValues :=∅and Forbid =∅. The setDecValues will maintain all decryption values.
2. Do the following forηiterations. Sample randomness R and execute FreqPubO(CRS) and
record all query/response pairs inFreq.
3. Sample γ←$ [η′] and do the followingγtimes. Run (PK,∗)←$ Initg(CRS) using fresh
randomness, sample (~SK, g′, e′)←$ ConsOrc(PK, Freq, Forbid), and
(a) for every qu := (sk− →g pk)∈g′\Freq, add (sk− →g ?) to Forbid. Also, for any(sk− →g pk)∈
g′\Freq if (∗− →g pk) /∈Freq, add (∗− →g pk) to Forbid.
(b) for every qu := (( pk,b,r )− →e c)∈e′\ Freq, add ((pk,b,r )− →e ?) to Forbid. Also, for
((pk,b,r )− →e c)∈e′\Freq, if ((pk,∗,∗)− →e c) /∈Freq, add ((pk,∗,∗)− →e c) to Forbid.
At the end of each iteration, update Freq by adding all queries made during (PK,∗)←$
Initg(CRS) to Freq.
4. Fori∈[n]
(a) Sample (~SKi, g′
i, e′
i)←$ ConsOrc(PKi, Freq, Forbid). If (~SKi, g′
i, e′
i) =⊥, then halt.
(b) Let O′′
i = (g, e′′
i, d′′
i ) := e′
i♦∗O.
(c) Let (~gi,~ei,~di) := g′
i♦∗O′′
i.
40

(d) Parse e′
i :={((pk1,∗,∗)− →e c1),..., ((pkλ,∗,∗)− →e cλ)}. For allj∈[λ], add both(pki,ci)
and (pki, e(pki,bi,ri)) to Q. Also, for any(pk,c ) such that ((pk,∗,∗)− →e c)∈Freq, add
(pk,c ) to Q.
(e) Execute Derive~gi,~ei,~di(~SKi,C ) and reply to queries as follows. Reply to all ~gi and ~ei
queries as Part 2 of Lemma C.4. For a queryqu := ((sk,c )−→
~di
?), if (sk− →g ∗)∈Freq
or (sk− →g ∗) /∈g′, then reply to the query as in Part 3 of Lemma C.4. Otherwise, let
pk = ~gi(sk) — which can be computed eﬃciently — and
i. if (sk′− →g pk)∈Freq for some sk′, reply toqu with d(sk′,c );
ii. if (pk,c )∈Q, then reply to the query as in Part 4 of Lemma C.4.
iii. else if v(pk,c ) =⊥, then reply toqu with⊥;
iv. else if u(pk,c ) =m⁄=⊥, then reply toqu with m;
v. else, reply toqu with⊥and add (pk,c ) to Chal.
(f) Letting ~Ki be the output of the simulated decryption ofDerive~d(~SKi,C ), add ~Ki to
DecValues.
We give the following lemma whose proof is immediately obtained via inspection, and so the
proof is omitted.
Lemma C.4. Fix an Iterationi∈[n] in Step 4 ofBrk’s procedure. Lete′
i :={((pkj,bj,rj)− →e cj)|
j∈[λ]}. Deﬁne
W :={(pkj,cj)|j∈[λ]} (7)
W′:={(pkj, e(pkj,bj,rj)|j∈[n]). (8)
Let Q := W∪W′∪{(pk,c )|((pk,∗,∗)− →e c)∈Freq}, as in Step 4d ofBrk’s procedure.
1. (~gi,~ei,~di) is a PKE-valid oracle; i.e., it satisﬁes perfect correctness (Deﬁnition 4.7).
2. Both ~gi and ~ei (Step 4c) can be computed eﬃciently on all points by having oracle access to
(g, e) and having (g′
i, e′
i) as input.
3. For any(sk,c ) if (sk−→
g′
i
?) /∈g′
i, or (sk− →g ?)∈Freq, or (∗− →g pk)∈Freq where pk := ~gi(sk),
then ˜d(sk,c ) can be eﬃciently computed by having oracle access to(g, e, d) and having g′
i and
e′
i as an input.
4. For any query ((sk,c ) − →
~d
?), letting pk := ~gi(sk) (which can be computed eﬃciently as
per Line 2), if (pk,c )∈Q, then ((sk,c )− →
~d
?) can be computed eﬃciently, as follows. If
((pk,b,r ) − →e c) ∈Freq for some b and c, then ~d(sk,c ) = b. If (pk,c ) ∈W′\ W, then
~d(sk,c ) =⊥. Else, if (pk,c ) = (pkj,cj) for j∈[λ], then~d(sk,c ) =bj.
41

C.0.2 Analysis of the Attack
We work with the events given in Deﬁnition 4.13 with the following modiﬁcations. We deﬁne the
event
• Event Evnt2: the event that for everyi∈[n], Line 4(e)v is hit with a value(pk,c ) such that
((pk,∗,∗)− →e c)∈QEnc\(∪iQGeni∪QC∪Freq).
We will bound all these bounds below. The bounds for eventsSurprise, Spoof and Intersect are
exactly those of Lemmas 4.16, 4.17 and 4.18, with exactly the same proofs. We now bound the
other events which require a slightly more general analysis.
Lemma C.5.Assumingη≥λ0.1, for anyi∈[n] Pr[Emptyi]≤ 1
2ω(logλ) +λ1.1η′
η . Thus, Pr[Empty]≤
n
2ω(logλ) + nλ1.1η′
η
Proof. We prove this fori = 1. The event Empty1 occurs if there exists a queryqu∈QGen1 such
that∈Forbid\Freq. This is so becauseQGen1 consists only ofg and e-type queries, and as long
as all queries ofQGen1 can be picked byg′
1, the eventEmpty1 will not occur. But in order for ag
and e-type query of QGen1 becomes “oﬀ-limits”, the same query should have been put inForbid.
Now exactly as in Lemma 4.14 we may concludePr[Emptyi]≤ 1
2ω(logλ) + λ1.1η′
η .
Lemma C.6. Assumingη≥λ0.1, Pr[Agree]≥1− 3n
2ω(log(λ))−(n2+n)λ1.1
η −3λn
η′−λ1.1
η.
Proof. We prove this for a ﬁxed value ofh (say,h = 1), and the overall bound will follow via a
union bound. We let Agree′be the event thatg′
1 agrees with QC∪QEnc∪i⁄=1 QGeni and Agree′′
be the event thate′
1 agrees with QC∪QEnc∪i⁄=1 QGeni. It is easy to see that the probability of
Agree is at mostPr[Agree′] + Pr[Agree′′]. Using the same argument as in Lemma 4.15,Pr[Agree′]≤
1
2ω(log(λ)) + λ
η′+ nλ1.1
η.
To boundAgree′′we break upAgree′′into Agree′′, Agree′′
2 and Agree′′
3, where these describe the
events that~e1 agrees with QC, with∪i⁄=1QGeni, and withQEnc, respectively.
We ﬁrst boundAgree′′
1. LetP be the process performed in each iteration of Line 3 ofBrk, namely
the process of sampling a fresh(PK,∗) and running (SK′, g′, e′)←$ ConsOrc(PK, Freq, Forbid), and
updating Forbid accordingly. Notice that (~SK1, g′
1, e′
1) of Line 4a of Brk is sampled according to
the same process. We say an iteration of the processP is Good if either (a) the sampled e′in
that iteration is empty; or (b) there does not exists any((pk,b,r )− →e c)∈QC\ Freq such that
either ((pk,b,r )− →e ∗)∈e′\Freq or ((pk,∗,∗)− →e c)∈e′\Freq. Otherwise, we say that iteration of
P is Bad. By inspection, one can see that wheneverAgree′′
1 holds, the iteration corresponding to
(~SK1, g′
1, e′
1) in Line 4a isBad. Also, notice that since|QC|=λ, we have at most2λBad iterations.
This is so because any query inQC can make at most two iterationsBad. Now since the iteration
for (~SK1, g′
1, e′
1) is the(γ+ 1)’s iteration, whereγ←$ [η′], the probability that that iteration isBad
is at most 2λ
η′. Thus, Pr[Agree2]≤2λ
η′.
Exactly as in the proof of Lemma 4.15 we can deducePr[Agree′′
2]≤ 1
2ω(log(λ)) + nλ1.1
η.
To bound Agree′′
3, notice if Agree′′
3 holds, there must exist a query in~e1 that also appears in
QEnc. Letp = λ0.1
η and notice thatη≥ω(logp)
p . Since QEnc is formed independently of~e1, applying
Lemma A.6 forp and η, the probability there is an intersection between~e1 and QEnc\Freq is at
most 1
2ω(log(λ)) + λ1.1
η.
42

We now prove a lemma analogous to Lemma 4.19.
Lemma C.7. Suppose|C|≤3λ(n−1)
2 , whereC is the CKE ciphertext. For any constantc > 0,
assuming η′≥nλc+1 and η≥nη′λ1.1+c, Pr[Evnt2]≤5
λc.
Proof. The proof follows similarly to that of 4.19, except in the way Lemma C.1 will be invoked.
First, similarly to Lemma C.1
Pr[Surprise∨Spoof∨Intersect]≤4
λc, (9)
obtained from the way in whichηand η′are instantiated. We will now show whenever all the
events Evnt2∧Surprise∧Spoof∧Intersect hold, we can build a forger in the sense of Lemma C.1.
The desired bound will then follow.
Let Chal := {(pk1,c 1),..., (pkm,cm)}be the set of public key/ciphertexts built up by Brk.
Notice that it might be thatm > n(because upon hitting Line 4(e)v, Brk continues the exe-
cution while pretending the answer is⊥, while adding the pair toChal), and that Chal contains
pairs that do not cause a contradiction, when applying Lemma C.1. So, we have to remove some
pairs from Chal, as explained below. To apply Lemma C.1, sample randomnessR for generating
(CRS, PK1,..., PKn). Let Ag,e,d be an adversary that hasR hardwired, and which usesR to gener-
ate (CRS, PK1,..., PKn), and which outputsC formed as(C,∗)←$ Commg,e(PK1,..., PKn) using
fresh randomness. Now letBg,e,d,u,v(C), also gettingR hardwired in, be an adversary that usesR
to re-generate (CRS, PK1,..., PKn) and will then simulateBrk(PK1,..., PKn,C ) to get Chal. Now
for every pair(pk,c ) in Chal such that there was a query((pk,∗,∗)− →e c)∈∪iQGeni∪QC made by
B, it will remove(pk,c ) from Chal. The fact that Evnt2 holds implies that Chal remains with at
leastn pairs, none of which was generated as a result of a previouse query, byB. From this point
on, using exactly the same arguments in Lemma 4.19, we can conclude that all pairs inChal are
distinct and valid. The proof is now complete.
Now that all the events have been bounded, we can prove an analogous statement to that of
Lemma 4.20, hence proving a lowerbound on the probability of attack success. This will imply
Lemma 4.4.
D Proof of CGKA Lower Bound
Proof of Theorem 3.1.We build a CKE construction that internally uses a CGKA scheme to exe-
cute a CGKA operation sequence. For conducting a CKE commit tok public keys, this operation
sequence contains at least onecollective update assistancefork passive users. The core idea of the
CKE construction is that precisely theeﬀective operationsof thiscollective update assistancein the
CGKA sequence are embedded in the committed CKE ciphertext. Hence, the total size of these
eﬀective CGKA operationsequals the size of the CKE ciphertext. All remaining operations in the
CGKA sequence are, in diﬀerent shapes, encoded in the CKE common reference stringCRS.
As part of the proof, we reduce the security of this CKE construction to the security of the
underlying CGKA scheme. Finally, we show that a CGKA scheme that executes this sequence
without inducing a communication overhead ofΩ(k) for the eﬀective operationsimplies a CKE
construction with compact ciphertexts.
43

CKE Construction. For clarity, we build a CKE construction that always commits tok public
keys, wherek∈poly(λ) is ﬁxed andλis the security parameter. This CKE construction can be
instantiated with any CGKA operation sequenceSeq that addsk passive users and performs at
least one subsequentcollective update assistance.
Internally, the CKE construction executes CGKA operation sequenceSeq. All eﬀective opera-
tions of the includedcollective update assistancein that sequence are embedded in the committed
CKE ciphertext. Thepre-add phaseas well as random coins for the remaining operations in that
sequence (i.e.,add operationsand ineﬀective pre-assistance operations) are embedded in the CKE
common reference stringCRS. When processing a received CKE ciphertext to derive the exchanged
CKE key, all receivers independently execute the same CGKA operation sequenceSeq internally.
Firstly, the pre-add phase is decoded from the CRS and processed. Then, random coins are de-
coded from theCRS with which thek add operationsand the subsequentineﬀective pre-assistance
operations are locally executed and then processed. Finally, the CGKA ciphertexts of theeﬀective
operations are decoded from the received CKE ciphertext and then processed in order to compute
the CGKA key of the last operation in thecollective update assistance. This CGKA key is output
as the derived CKE key.
Letk be the ﬁxed number of input public keys for CKE commits, andSeq be a CGKA execution
schedule that addsk passive usersfrom thetA
1 th until thetA
k th operation and afterwards performs
a collective update assistanceuntil thet∗th operation. Without loss of generality, sequenceSeq
ends with thet∗th operation such that theirrelevant end of that sequence is disregarded. Then
PU is the set of passive users’ public keys in that sequence,AUt∗is the set of active users’ public
keys, and EOt∗is the set of eﬀective operations.
• CRSGen:
1. Execute (PK, ST)←$ Gen for all users in sequenceSeq except for those in setPU
2. Add (PK, ST) to CRS for all users in setAUt∗
3. Add only PK to CRS for all users not in setPU∪AUt∗
4. Sample random coins for all operations inSeq and execute the sub-sequence that ends
with thetA
1−1th operation with their coins
5. Add the random coins for all operations toCRS that were initiated by users in setAUt∗
except for the random coins of operations in setEOt∗
6. Add the output ciphertexts of all operations toCRS that were initiated by users not in
set PU∪AUt∗
7. Add the description ofSeq to the CRS
8. Return CRS
• Init(CRS):
1. Execute (PK, ST)←$ Gen
2. Return (PK, SK) = (PK, ST)
• Comm(CRS,{PKi}i∈[k]):
1. Execute sequence Seq until the tA
1 −1th operation with the secret states of users in
set AUt∗, respective random coins, and ciphertexts fromCRS.
44

2. Execute sequenceSeq from thetA
1 th to thetA
k th operation with the secret states of users
in set AUt∗and the respective random coins fromCRS. Each of thek operations that
add users in setPU takes a public key from input{PKi}i∈[k] as actually added CGKA
user in a distinct order
3. Execute sequence Seq from thetA
k + 1th to thet∗th operation with the secret states of
users in set AUt∗from CRS. Operations not in set EOt∗use their respective random
coins from CRS and operations in setEOt∗use freshly sampled random coins
4. Use the CGKA key output by thet∗th operation as CKE keyK
5. Compose the CKE ciphertextC from the list of ciphertexts output by operations in
set EOt∗
6. Return (K,C )
• Derive(CRS, SK,{PKi}i∈[k],C ):
1. Execute steps 1 and 2 from algorithmComm identically
2. Execute and/or process sequence Seq from the tA
k + 1th to the t∗th operation with
the secret states of users in set AUt∗from CRS and secret state ST from input SK.
Operations not in setEOt∗use their respective random coins fromCRS. Operations in
set EOt∗are processed via CGKA algorithmProc with ciphertexts from inputC and
secret state ST from input SK
3. Use the CGKA key output by thet∗th operation as CKE keyK
4. Return K
When we write “execute sequence”, we mean that all operations initiated by active users are
indeed (re-)computed with their respective secret state and potentially ﬁxed random coins from
CRS. This produces the corresponding output ciphertexts. The ciphertexts of all operations—
including the ones directly stored inCRS that are initiated by users who are neither marked active
nor passive—are then used for processing the sequence. The sequence is processed with the secret
states of the activeand, in CKE algorithmDerive, passive users. The only operations by active
users that are never re-processed with their own states nor re-initiated after being initiated once in
CKE algorithmComm are the eﬀective operations in setEOt∗. The eﬀective operations in setEOt∗
are initiated once in CKE algorithmComm and processed once per CKE receiver in CKE algorithm
Derive.
Security of CKE Construction.
Lemma D.1(CKE Security). Letk∈poly(λ) be ﬁxed andSeq be a CGKA operation schedule with
|PU|= k and with acollective update assistanceending with thet∗th operation that instantiates
CKE construction CKE. For every adversaryA that is successful according to Deﬁnition 2.4 in
breaking the security ofCKE there exists an adversaryB that is successful according to Deﬁnition 2.3
in breaking the security of the underlying CGKA construction such thatAdv(A)≤Adv(B).
Proof of Lemma D.1.We deﬁne adversaryB as follows: Given the CGKA execution scheduleSeq
that instantiates CKE construction CKE,B composes its query to the CGKA security game by
extending this schedule. This extended scheduleSeq′additionally speciﬁes that all active users in
45

set AUt∗are corrupted twice: (1) immediately after their public-key secret-state pairs are generated
initially and (2) immediately before their respective ﬁrst eﬀective operation in setEOt∗begins.
Furthermore,B speciﬁes thet∗th operation as the one that establishes the targeted key. The CGKA
security game responds on(Seq′,t∗) with transcript Trans that contains the following information:
• Public keys of all involved users
• Initial secret states of all active users in setAUt∗(from the ﬁrst corruption)
• Random coins of all operations initiated by the active users, except for the random coins of
eﬀective operations in setEOt∗(from the second corruption)
• Ciphertexts of all operations
Usingthisinformation, B composesCKEcommonreferencestring CRS, CKEpublickeys{PKi}i∈[k] =
PU, and CKE ciphertextC. B invokesA(CRS,{PKi}i∈[k],C ), which returns its guessed keyK.
This guessed CKE keyK is forwarded to the CGKA security game as a guess for the CGKA key
that is exchanged with thet∗th operation.
ReductionB perfectly simulates constructionCKE and extractsA’s CKE solution to solve the
CGKA challenge. Since every successful adversaryA is reduced to a successful adversaryB, we
have Adv(A)≤Adv(B), which proves Lemma D.1.
Communication Complexity of CGKA. Given ﬁxedk∈poly(λ), a CGKA operation sched-
ule Seq with|PU|= k and a collective update assistance ending with the t∗th operation that
instantiates CKE constructionCKE. The CKE ciphertext in constructionCKE precisely contains
the CGKA ciphertexts of eﬀective operationsEOt∗that realize the corresponding collective update
assistance. Assume there exists a CGKA scheme for which the eﬀective operations compute ci-
phertexts with total sizeo(k). Using this CGKA scheme, we obtain a CKE constructionCKE with
compact ciphertexts, which contradicts Theorem 4.5 and, consequently, proves Theorem 3.1.
E From CKE to CGKA Tightly
In this section, we show to build CGKA from CKE such that the worst-case communication com-
plexity of the CGKA scheme is asymptotically proportional to that of the CKE scheme. Together
with the result of Section 3, this shows that the worst-case size of CKE ciphertextsboth lower
bounds and upper bounds the worst-case size of CGKA ciphertexts. Note: our CGKA scheme only
achieves the security of Deﬁnition 2.3; i.e., we do not prove FS properties nor adaptive security
for it. However, it is easy to see that it achieves FS similar (slightly weaker) to that of MLS [8]
(after an Up operation, a subsequent corruption of the corresponding user does not reveal group
keys from before the operation) and that a slightly stronger CKE deﬁnition would achieve adaptive
security for CGKA.
To build CGKA from CKE we, for simplicity, only consider those CKE schemes without a CRS
(i.e., those CKE schemes satisfying Deﬁnition 2.4 withCRS = ϵ). We thus in this section omit
CRS from the CKE syntax. Note that of course our black-box lower bound on CKE from PKE in
Section 4 still holds for such CKE schemes.
Using such a CKE scheme to build CGKA is straight-forward: All CGKA users duringGen set
(ST, PK) to be the outputs(SK, PK) of the CKE algorithm Init. A group member that executes a
46

CGKA operation simply collects the public keys of the users who will be in the group after their
operation, inputs them to the CKEComm algorithm, and outputs the resulting CKE messageC
and group keyK. All other group members can then use CKE algorithmDerive and their CKE
secret key to determinstically derive the group keyK in Proc.
Formally, each user will storeM, the set of public keys of the current group members. Before,
a given user is added to the group, they will simply storeM ={PK}, where PK is their own public
key. CGKA = (Gen, Add, Rem, Up, Proc) is deﬁned as follows:
• Gen() executes (SK′, PK′)←$ Init() and outputs (ST, PK) = ((SK′, PK′, M), PK′), with M =
{PK′}.
• Add(ST, PKadd)ﬁrstparsesST = (SK′, PK′, M)andsets M′←M∪{PKadd}, ST′←(SK′, PK′, M′).
Then, it executes(K,C′)←$ Comm(M′), setsCG←(C′, PKadd,ϵ),CB←(PK′, PKadd,ϵ) and
outputs (ST′,K, (CG,CB)).
• Rem(ST, PKrem)ﬁrstparsesST = (SK′, PK′, M)andsets M′←M\{PKrem}, ST′←(SK′, PK′, M′).
Then, it executes(K,C′)←$ Comm(M′), setsCG←(C′,ϵ,PKrem),CB←(PK′,ϵ,PKrem) and
outputs (ST′,K, (CG,CB)).
• Up(ST) ﬁrst parses ST = ( SKold, PKold, M) and executes (SKnew, PKnew) ←$ Init(). It
next sets M′←(M\{PKold})∪{PKnew}, ST′←(SKnew, PKnew, M′). Then it executes
(K,C′)←$ Comm(M′), setsCG←(C′, PKnew, PKold),CB←(PKold, PKnew, PKold) and out-
puts (ST′,K, (CG,CB)).
• Proc(ST,CG, (B))16 ﬁrst parsesST = (SK′, PK′, M) and CG = (C′, PKadd, PKrem). Next:
1. If M ={PK′}, meaning the executing user was added in this operation, she computes
the current group member public key setM′from the ciphertextsCB that have been
posted to the bulletin boardB after each operation, then setsST′←(SK′, PK′, M′).
2. If PK′= PKrem, the algorithm setsM′←{PK′}and ST′←(SK′, PK′, M′), and outputs
(ST′,⊥).
3. Otherwise, the algorithm setsM′←(M\{PKrem})∪{PKadd}and ST′←(SK′, PK′, M′).17
If Step 2 above was not executed,K←Derive(SK′,C′, M′) is executed by the algorithm and
(ST′,K ) is then output.
Theorem E.1. If CKE = (Init, Comm, Derive) is a correct and secure compact key exchange pro-
tocol, then CGKA = (Gen, Add, Rem, Up, Proc) deﬁned above is a correct and secure continuous
group key agreement protocol.
Proof. Correctness of CGKA clearly follows from the correctness of CKE: the CGKA operation
executor simply executes Comm on input the current group members’ public keys to compute
group keyK and messageC, from which all other group members can computeK using Derive.
The executor also includes in the output direct CGKA messageCG: the public key of the added
user during an Add operation, the public key of the removed user during aRem operation, and
16Recall that Proc only takes inB for added users.
17We assume{ϵ}≡∅when considering set operations including{ϵ}.
47

her old and new public key during anUp operation, so that all group members can keep track of
the current pubic keys of other members. This information is additionally included in the bulletin
board messageCB, so that added users can easily obtain the current group member public key set
from the bulletin boardB.
Fornon-adaptive security ofCGKA, we will show a reduction from the security ofCKE. Assume
there exists some adversaryA of CGKA that succeeds in the CGKA security game with probability
ε >negl(λ). We will useA to construct adversaryB that has advantageεin the CKE security
game, a contradiction.
First note that from operation sequenceSeq and challenge epocht∗whichA provides upon
initialization of the CGKA game,B can easily compute the number of usersn in the group at epoch
t∗, forward this to its challenger, and assign to those users at epocht∗public keys PK1,..., PKn
received from the CKE challenger. WhenA queries Gen(), if the resulting public key will not
be in the group in challenge epocht∗(whichB can discern from Seq), thenB simply executes
(SK, PK)←$ Init() and sendsPK toA. Otherwise, it simply sends the correspondingPKi from the
CKE challenger toA. WhenA queries one ofAdd(PK, PK∗) or Rem(PK, PK∗) for epocht⁄=t∗,
B simply executesC′←$ Comm(M′), constructsCG andCB, then sends(CG,CB) toA. For query
Up(PK) for epocht⁄=t∗, if the resulting public key will not be in the group in challenge epocht∗
(whichB can discern from Seq), thenB ﬁrst computes(SKnew, PKnew)←$ Init(), then continues
as above. Otherwise, it instead uses the correspondingPKi from the CKE challenger in place of
PKnew, then continues as above. For the epocht∗query,B simply uses the challenge ciphertextC
from the CKE challenger, constructsCG andCB, then sends(CG,CB) toA. For Corr(PK) queries
fromA,B simply returns the correspondingSK, and the random coins which it sampled for the
corresponding user’s executions ofComm() and Init(). WhenA sends K,B simply forwards it to
its challenger.
Clearly,B has perfectly simulated the CGKA security game againstCGKA forA. Namely, since
the epoch t∗whichA challenges must not be inW eakEpochs, it must be that all users in the
group at epocht∗were either never corrupted, or were updated since their last corruption. Thus,
all corruptions queried byA correspond to secret states and randomness whichB generated and
sampled, respectively, on its own. Thus sinceA wins the CGKA game with probabilityε,B wins
the CKE game againstCKE with probabilityε, a contradiction.
The following corollary follows immediately from the construction ofCGKA above:
Corollary E.2. The asymptotic worst-case communication complexity ofCGKA operations with
n group members is equivalent to the asymptotic worst-case communication complexity ofCKE
Comm() algorithm on inputn public keys.
F Tainted TreeKEM Summary
Here we give a summary of Tainted TreeKEM (TTKEM). We take it almost verbatim from Alwen
et al. [6, §2], adapting it to our notation, and removing details which are not relevant to our paper.
F.1 Overview
TTKEMworksoverabinarytree Tandmakesblack-boxuseofPKEprotocol PKE = (Gen, Enc, Dec)
and PRFF. The nodes in the tree are associated with the following values:
48

• a seed ∆ ;
• (all nodes except the root) a PKE secret/public key pair(sk, pk) derived deterministically
from the seed; and
• (all nodes except leaves and root) a tainter ID.
The root has no associated public/secret key pair, instead its seed is the current group key.
To achieve FS and PCS, and to manage group membership, it is necessary to constantly renew
the secret keys used in the protocol. We will do this through the group operationsUp(), Rem(),
and Add(). We will use the term refresh to refer to the renewal of a particular (set of) key(s)
(as opposed to the group operation). Each group operation will refresh a part of the tree, always
including the root and thus resulting in a new group key which can be decrypted by all members
of the current group.
Due to our simpliﬁed CGKA deﬁnition, each group member has a consistent view of the public
information in the tree, namely public keys, tainter IDs and past operations. Furthermore, group
members will have a partial view of the secret keys. More precisely, every user has an associated
protocol stateST (or state for short when there is no ambiguity), which represents everything users
need to know to stay part of the group. In particular, we deﬁne a state as the doubleST = (M, T),
where
• M denotes the set of group members, i.e.PK’s that are part of the group; and
• T denotes a binary tree deﬁned as above, where for each group member, theirPK is associated
to a leaf node.
As mentioned, a user will generally not have knowledge of the secret keys associated to all tree
nodes. However, if they add or remove parties, they will potentially gain knowledge of secret keys
outside their path. We observe that this will not be a problem as long as we have a mechanism
to keep track of those nodes and refresh them when necessary, towards this end we introduce the
concept of tainting.
Tainting. Whenever party i refreshes a node not lying on their path to the root, that node
becomes tainted by partyi. Whenever a node is tainted by a partyi, that party has potentially
had knowledge of its current secret in the past. So, if partyi was corrupted in the past, the secrecy
of that value is considered compromised (even if she deleted that value right away and is no longer
compromised). Even worse, all values that were encrypted to that node are compromised too. We
will assign a tainter ID to all nodes. This can be empty, i.e. the node is untainted, or corresponds
to a single partyi, who last generated this node’s secret but is not supposed to know it. The tainter
ID of a node is determined by the following simple rules.
• After partyi initialises, all internal nodes not on her path become tainted by her.18
• If partyi updates or removes someone, refreshed nodes on her path become untainted.
• If partyi updates or removes someone, all refreshed nodes not on her path become tainted
by her.
18Our CGKA syntax only allows partyi to one-by-one add other users to the group, instead of an explicit initiali-
sation algorithm, but we keep this here for completeness.
49

Hierarchical derivation of updates. When refreshing a whole path we sample a seed ∆ 0
and derive all the secrets for that path from it. This way, we reduce the number of decryptions
needed to process the update, as parties only need to recover the seed for the “lowest” node that
concerns them, and then can derive the rest locally. To derive the diﬀerent new secrets we follow
the speciﬁcation of TreeKEMv9 [8]. Essentially, we consider a PRFF, ﬁx tagx, and together with
Gen, we derive the keys for the nodes as follows:
(ski, ∆ i+1) :=F (∆ i,x )
pki←Gen(ski)
where ∆ i is the seed for theith node (the leaf being the0th node, its parent the1st etc.) on the
path and (ski, pki) its new key pair.
With the introduction of tainting, it is no longer the case that all nodes to be refreshed lie on
a path. Hence, we partition the set of all the nodes to be refreshed into paths and use a diﬀerent
seed for each path. For this we need a unique path cover, as users processing the update will need
to know which nodes secrets depend on which. A concrete example is given in [6, §A.2], but any
unambiguous partition suﬃces. The only condition required is that the updating of paths is done
in a particular common order that allows for encryptions to to-be-refreshed nodes to be done under
the respective updated public key (one cannot hope for PCS otherwise).
Let us stress that a party processing an update involving tainted nodes might need to retrieve
and decrypt more than one encrypted seeds, as the refreshed nodes on its path might not all be
derived hierarchically. Nonetheless, party needs to decrypt at mostlogn ciphertexts in the worst
case.
F.2 TTKEM Dynamics
Whenever a useri wants to perform a group operation, she will generate and send the appropriate
Update, Add or Remove message to all group members, and post the appropriate information to the
bulletin board. Messages should contain the identity of the sender, the operation type, encryptions
of the new seeds, and any new public keys. A more detailed description, as well as pseudo-code for
the distinct operations is presented in [6, §A.3].
Initialize. To create a new group with user public keysM ={PK1,...PKn}, user 1 generates
a new treeT, where the leaves have the associated public keys corresponding to the group mem-
bers.19 The group creator then samples new key pairs for all the other nodes inT (optimizing
with hierarchical derivation) and crafts welcome messages for each party. These welcome messages
should include an encryption of the seed that allows the computation of the keys of the appropriate
path. Each party will download from the bulletin board treeT.
Add. To add a new user withPKj to the group, useri identiﬁes a free spot for them, samples a
seed ∆ , and derives seeds for the nodes along the path to the root. She then encrypts the new seeds
to all the nodes in the co-path (one ciphertext per node suﬃces given the hierarchical derivation)
and sends them over together with the public keyPKj of the added party.
19Again, ourCGKAsyntaxdoesnothaveanexplicitinitialisationalgorithm, butwekeepthishereforcompleteness.
50

Update. To perform an Update, a user computes a path partition for the set of nodes not on her
path that need to be refreshed (nodes tainted or with a tainted ancestor), samples a seed per such
path, plus a seed for their path, and derives the new key-pairs for each node, as described above.
She then encrypts the secret keys under the appropriate public keys in the copaths.
Remove. To remove user withPKj, useri performs an Update as if it was userj, refreshing all
nodes in userj’s path to the root, as well as all her tainted nodes (which will become tainted by
user i after the removal).
Process. When a user receives a protocol messageC, it identiﬁes which kind of message it is and
performs the appropriate update of their state, by updating the list of participants if necessary,
overwriting any keys, and updating the tainted ID’s.
51