9th Workshop on Hot Topics in Operating Systems (HotOS IX) - Abstract 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 9th Workshop on Hot Topics in Operating Systems (HotOS IX) — Abstract 
 
 Pp. XXX-XXX of the Proceedings 
 
-->
 
 

 
 
 High Availability, Scalable Storage, Dynamic Peer Networks: Pick Two 
Charles Blake and Rodrigo Rodrigues, MIT Laboratory for Computer Science 
 Abstract 
Peer-to-peer storage aims to build large-scale, reliable and available storage from many small-scale unreliable, low-availability distributed hosts. Data redundancy is the key to any data guarantees. However, preserving redundancy in the face of highly dynamic membership is costly. We apply a simple resource usage model to measured behavior from the Gnutella file-sharing network to argue that large-scale cooperative storage is limited by likely dynamics and cross-system bandwidth—not by local disk space. We examine some bandwidth optimization strategies like delayed response to failures, admission control, and load-shifting and find that they do not alter the basic problem. We conclude that when redundancy, data scale, and dynamics are all high, the requisite cross-system bandwidth is beyond reasonable expectations.

 

 View the full text of this paper in 
 HTML and PDF , or the talk slides in PDF . 
 Postscript .
-->
 
 The Proceedings are published as a collective work, © 2003 by the USENIX Association. All Rights Reserved. Rights to individual papers remain with the author or the author's employer. Permission is granted for the noncommercial reproduction of the complete work for educational or research purposes. USENIX acknowledges all trademarks within this paper.
 

 If you need the latest Adobe Acrobat Reader, you can download it from Adobe's site .

 
 
 
 
 To become a USENIX Member, please see our Membership Information . 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 Need help? Use our Contacts page. 
 
 
 

 
 Last changed: 24 July 2003 aw 
 
 

 
 
 
 Technical Program 
 
 
 9th Workshop on Hot Topics in Operating Systems (HotOS IX) Home 
 
 
 USENIX home