Eﬃcient threshold signature, multisignature and blind
signature schemes based on the
Gap-Diﬃe-Hellman-group signature scheme
Alexandra Boldyreva∗
August 12, 2002
Abstract
We propose a robust proactive threshold signature scheme, a multisignature scheme and a
blind signature scheme which work in any Gap Diﬃe-Hellman (GDH) group (where the Compu-
tational Diﬃe-Hellman problem is hard but the Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman problem is easy). Our
constructions are based on the recently proposed GDH signature scheme of Boneh et al. [BLS].
Due to the instrumental structure of GDH groups and of the base scheme, it turns out that most
of our constructions are simpler, more eﬃcient and have more useful properties than similar
existing constructions. We support all the proposed schemes with proofs under the appropriate
computational assumptions, using the corresponding notions of security.
Keywords: Signature schemes, threshold signatures, multisignatures, blind signatures, GDH groups.
∗Dept. of Computer Science & Engineering, University of California at San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA. E-mail: aboldyre@cs.ucsd.edu. URL: http://www-cse.ucsd.edu/users/aboldyre.
1

Contents
1 Introduction 3
1.1 The new GDH threshold signature scheme. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
1.2 The new GDH multisignature scheme. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
1.3 The new GDH blind signature scheme. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
2 Signature schemes and their security 6
3 The Gap-Diﬃe-Hellman (GDH) groups and the GDH signature scheme 7
3.1 GDH groups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
3.2 The GDH signature scheme . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
4 Robust proactive threshold GDH signature scheme 8
4.1 Deﬁnitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
4.2 TGS , the threshold GDH signature scheme . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
4.3 Adding proactive security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
5 The GDH multisignature scheme 10
5.1 Multisignature schemes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
5.2 MGS , the GDH multisignature scheme . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
5.3 Security of multisignatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
5.4 Security of the MGS multisignature scheme . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
6 The blind GDH signature scheme 12
6.1 BGS, the blind GDH signature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
6.2 Security of blind signatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
6.3 Chosen target CDH assumption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
6.4 Security of the BGS blind signature scheme . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
7 Acknowledgements 14
References 14
A Proof of Theorem 4.2 16
B Proof of Theorem 5.2 17
C Proof of Theorem 6.3 17
2

1 Introduction
Recently Boneh, Lynn and Shacham [BLS] proposed a new signature scheme that uses groups
where the Computational Diﬃe-Hellman (CDH) problem is hard but the Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman
(DDH) problem is easy. (Recall that the CDH problem asks to compute h =gloggu·loggv given the
three random group elements (g,u,v ) and the DDH problem asks to decide whether the four group
elements (g,u,v,h ) are all random or they are a valid Diﬃe-Hellman tuple, namely, they have the
property that loggu = logvh.) Following [BLS] we will refer to such groups as Gap Diﬃe-Hellman
(GDH) groups. The ﬁrst example a GDH group is given in [J] and more details on the existence
and composition of GDH groups can be found in [JN, BF, BLS]. Another signature scheme that
works in GDH groups has been proposed by Lysyanskaya in [L]. Unlike the scheme of [BLS], it does
not use random oracles but is less eﬃcient.
Let G be a GDH group of prime order p and let g be a generator of G. Similarly to most
discrete-log-based schemes, the secret key of the signature scheme GS of [BLS] is a random element
x∈Z∗
p and the public key is y =gx. To sign a message M∈{ 0, 1}∗ a signer who holds x computes
the signature σ = H(M)x, where H is a hash function mapping arbitrary strings to the elements
of G\{ 1}, where 1 denotes the identity element of G. Following [BLS] let us denote G∗ =G\{ 1}.
In order to verify the validity of a candidate signature σ of a message M, a veriﬁer simply checks
whether (g,y,H (M),σ ) is a valid Diﬃe-Hellman tuple.
Boneh et al. [BLS] prove that signature scheme GS is secure against existential forgery under
chosen message attack in the random oracle model assuming that the underlying group is GDH.
They also show that using this signature scheme in some GDH groups leads to very short signatures
of length approximately 160 bits. In this paper we show that besides this attractive property, GS
gives rise to various eﬃcient extensions. More precisely, we propose a robust threshold proactive
signature scheme, a multisignature scheme and a blind signature scheme which are all based on the
GS signature scheme. Thanks to the elegant structure of GDH groups and of the base scheme it
turns out that most of our constructions are simpler, more eﬃcient and have more useful properties
than similar existing constructions. We support all the proposed schemes with proofs under the
appropriate computational assumptions using the corresponding notions of security.
1.1 The new GDH threshold signature scheme.
The idea behind the (t,n )-threshold cryptography approach [B, D88, DF89, S] is to distribute secret
information (i.e. a secret key) and computation (i.e. signature generation or decryption) between
n parties in order to remove single point of failure. The goal is to allow any subset of more than t
parties to jointly reconstruct a secret and perform the computation while preserving security even
in the presence of an active adversary which can corrupt up to t (a threshold) parties. A review of
research on threshold cryptography is presented in [D94].
In threshold signature schemes the secret key is distributed among n parties with the help of a
trusted dealer or without it by running an interactive protocol among all parties. To sign a message
M any subset of more than t parties can use their shares of the secret and execute an interactive
signature generation protocol, which outputs a signature ofM that can be veriﬁed by anybody using
the unique ﬁxed public key. The security notion for threshold signature schemes requires that no
polynomial-time adversary that corrupts any t parties can learn any information about the secret
key or can forge a valid signature on a new message of its choice. An important property of threshold
signature schemes is robustness, which requires that even t malicious parties that deviate from the
protocol cannot prevent it from generating a valid signature. Another useful property of a threshold
signature scheme is proactivness [OY, CH] (or periodic refreshment of shares of a secret) whose goal
is to protect a system from an adversary that builds-up knowledge of a secret by several attempted
3

break-ins to several locations. In general, the main goals of threshold signature constructions are
to provably achieve the following properties: to support as high a threshold t as possible, to avoid
use of a trusted dealer, to be robust, proactive and as eﬃcient as possible in terms of computation,
interaction and length of the shares.
The new GDH threshold signature scheme.In Section 4.2 we propose the threshold signature
scheme TGS that works in any GDH group. It is based on the GDH signature scheme of [BLS],
whose structure turned out to be very instrumental in constructing an eﬃcient threshold signature
scheme. Our threshold GDH group signature scheme can tolerate any t < n/2 malicious parties,
which is an optimal result. Its key generation protocol does not require a trusted dealer. The
signature generation protocol does not require interaction or any zero-knowledge proofs, and avoids
other diﬃculties pertaining to various threshold schemes. The signature generation protocol has
a minimal overhead compared to that of the base scheme. The shares are short and their length
does not depend on the number of parties. Its signature share generation protocol is basically the
signing algorithm of the base scheme and the signature reconstruction requires only multiplication
of shares. We state the security result in Theorem 4.2. The proof is in the random oracle model
only because the latter is used in the proof of security of the base signature scheme. We also show
how proactive security can be added to our scheme using general methods of [HJKY, HJJKY].
Related work. There exist many threshold signature scheme constructions, i.e. [DF89, H, DF91,
FD, FGMY, R, GJKR96, Sh]. The proposals of [DF89, H] lack security proofs, the schemes of
[DF89, DF91, FD] are non-robust while those of [FGMY, R] are robust and proactive but require a
lot of interaction. We compare our scheme with the threshold DSS signature scheme of Gennaro et
al. [GJKR96] and with the threshold RSA scheme of Shoup [Sh].
The threshold DSS signature proposed in [GJKR96] is robust, does not require a trusted dealer
and has a proof of security without random oracle assumption. It deals with technical diﬃculties
such as combining shares of two secrets into shares of the product of these secrets and producing
shares of a reciprocal of a secret given shares of this secret. To achieve robustness, the authors
use error-correction techniques of Berlekamp and Welch [BW]. As a result, the threshold DSS can
tolerate only t < n/4 malicious parties, the threshold signature-generation protocol requires a lot
of interaction and the complexity of a threshold scheme increases considerably related to the base
signature scheme. The scheme can be made proactive following the methods of [HJKY, HJJKY].
The robust threshold RSA signature scheme of [Sh] is proven secure in the random oracle model.
It can tolerate t < n/2 malicious parties and its signature generation algorithm is non-interactive.
It, however, requires a trusted dealer to run the key generation protocol. The public key uses an
RSA modulus that is a product of two safe primes. The protocol utilizes zero-knowledge proofs in
the random oracle model in order to achieve robustness. Proactivization is not considered in [Sh].
1.2 The new GDH multisignature scheme.
In order to gain intuition about what multisignature schemes are we ﬁrst discuss this notion infor-
mally and compare it to other notions.
A multisignature scheme allows any subgroup of a group of players to jointly sign a document
such that a veriﬁer is convinced that each member of the subgroup participated in signing. The trivial
solution which satisﬁes the above informal deﬁnition is as follows. The resulting multisignature is
simply a concatenation of a description of the subgroup and of regular signatures computed by each
member of the subgroup using its own secret key. In fact this simple scheme will meet the security
requirements we formalize in Section 5.3. Its main drawback, however, is that the signature length
and veriﬁcation time grows linearly with the number of users in the subgroup.
Multisignature schemes are diﬀerent from threshold signatures for several reasons. The goal
4

of a multisignature is to prove that each member of the stated subgroup signed the message and
the size of this subgroup can be arbitrary, whereas in the latter setting the goal is to prove that
some subgroup of suﬃcient size signed the message, and the minimal size is a parameter of the
scheme and should be known in advance. As opposed to multisignatures, a threshold signature does
not reveal identities of individual signers. Another diﬀerence is that the veriﬁcation protocol of a
threshold signature scheme does not depend on the current subgroup of signers. Multisignatures
are also diﬀerent from group signatures [CH, CS] and ring signatures [RST], where every individual
member of the group can produce a valid signature on behalf of the whole group. In the latter two
settings a signer remains anonymous with respect to a veriﬁer. In the group signature setting there
is also a third party called a group manager which can identify the identity of the signer.
Related work. Multisignatures have been introduced in [IN] and have been the topic of many
other works such as [H, LHL, HMP, OO91, OO99, MOR]. The schemes of [OO91, OO99] do not
support subgroups of signers, they allow only the case where each player of the group signs the
document. The solutions of [IN, O] are not very eﬃcient: multisignature generation and veriﬁcation
time grows linearly with the number of players. But most importantly, until recent works of Ohta
and Okamoto and of Micali et al. [OO99, MOR] there were no formal notions of security for
multisignatures and therefore there were no provably secure multisignature schemes. As a result,
the proposals of [LHL, H] have been successfully attacked. The notion of security of [OO99] is not
strong enough since it does not consider the possibility of adversarial attacks during key generation.
Micali et al. [MOR] ﬁrst formalize the strong notion of security for multisignatures (they call
them “accountable-subgroup multisignatures”). They modify the Schnorr-signature-based multisig-
nature scheme originally proposed by Ohta and Okamoto in [OO99] and prove its security. The
model of security and the multisignature scheme of [MOR] assume that the subset of signers L is
known a priori. Each signer has to know all participants of the current subgroup of signers L, a de-
scription of which is hashed and signed along with a message. [MOR] state it as an interesting open
problem to ﬁnd a provably secure multisignature scheme where the composition of the subgroup
can be decided after the signature shares are computed.
The new GDH multisignature scheme. In Section 5.1 we give precise deﬁnitions of multisig-
nature schemes and their security. Our model of security is very similar to the simpliﬁed model of
security of [MOR], but it is more general, it does not have the restriction that the subset of signers
should be known in advance. In Section 5.2 we propose the new GDH multisignature scheme MGS .
OurMGS scheme solves the open problem stated in [MOR]: it does not require a priori knowledge
of a subgroup of signers and is provably secure. We state the security result in Section 5.4 and pro-
vide a proof in Section B. Moreover, it is more eﬃcient than the one of [MOR] which requires three
rounds of communication for the multisignature generation protocol, whereMGS requires only one,
it is basically non-interactive. Similarly to their scheme, the signature length and veriﬁcation time
forMGS is independent of the size of the subgroup and is almost the same as for the base signature
scheme. In fact each signature share of our multisignature scheme is the standard GDH signature.
In the scheme of [MOR] a signer is not allowed to begin a new signing protocol until the previous
one has completed. This is because their proof of security uses rewinding which is incompatible
with concurrency. Our scheme does not have such restriction not only because our proof does not
use rewinding but mostly because the signing protocol is non-interactive.
We note that the approach underlying the construction of the multisignature scheme MGS can
be used to achieve eﬃcient batch veriﬁcation of GDH signatures of the same message under diﬀerent
public keys.
5

1.3 The new GDH blind signature scheme.
Blind signatures are the basic tool of digital cash schemes. Using a blind signature protocol a user
can obtain from a bank a digital coin, that is a token properly signed by the bank. The goal of blind
signature protocols is to enable a user to obtain a signature from a signer so that the signer does
not learn information about the message it signed and so that the user cannot obtain more than one
valid signature after one interaction with the signer. Chaum [C] ﬁrst proposed the RSA-based blind
signature scheme. However, it has been proved secure only recently by Bellare et al. [BNPS]. The
reason for this time gap is that it appears impossible to prove security of Chaum’s scheme based
on standard RSA assumptions. The approach taken by [BNPS] is to introduce the new plausible
computational assumption, namely, “chosen-target-one-more-RSA-inversion” and to prove security
of Chaum’s RSA blind signature based on this assumption. In [BNPS] the authors suggest that an
analogue of this assumption can be formulated for any family of one-way functions.
In Section 6.1 we deﬁne the new blind signature scheme BGS that works in GDH groups. The
protocol is very similar to the RSA blind signature protocol. Namely, a user multiplies hash of
the message with a random group element, submits it to the bank and later “derandomizes” the
signature obtained from the bank using knowledge of the public key and of the random factor. In
order to prove the security of BGS we follow the approach of [BNPS] and in Section 6.3 deﬁne a
new computational problem, the Chosen-target Computational-Diﬃe-Hellman problem: given a set
Z ={z1,...,z n} of random members of a cyclic group G =<g > of prime order p, a random public
keyy =gx and the “helper” oracle (·)x the goal is to output a set of distinct G elements{v1,...,v l}
such that for all i∈{ 1,...,l } there exists zj∈Z with zj =vx
i while the number of queries to the
helper oracle is strictly less than l. Note that without the helper oracle the Chosen-target CDH
assumption is equivalent to the standard CDH assumption. We conjecture that the chosen-target
CDH problem is hard for all groups where the CDH problem is hard. This includes GDH groups. In
Section C we prove the security of the blind signature BGS scheme under the Chosen-target CDH
assumption.
2 Signature schemes and their security
Signature schemes. A signature scheme S consists of three algorithms. The randomized key
generation algorithmK takes a global information I and outputs a pair ( sk, pk) of a secret and a
public keys. The global information can contain, for example, a security parameter, a description
of the group and its generator, and the description of the hash function. We do not focus on who
generates these parameters and assume that they are publicly available. A (possibly) randomized
signature generation algorithmS takes a message M to sign and global info I and a secret key
sk and outputs M along with a signature σ. A deterministic veriﬁcation algorithm V takes a
public key pk, a message M and a signature σ and outputs 1 (accepts) if the signature is valid and
0 (rejects) otherwise. In the random oracle model [BR] both signing and veriﬁcation algorithms
have access to the random hash oracle. Usually M ∈{ 0, 1}∗. The common requirement is that
V(pk,S(I, sk,M )) = 1 for all M∈{ 0, 1}∗.
Security. The widely-accepted notion of security for signature schemes is unforgeability under
chosen-message attacks [GMR]. We recall this notion adjusted to the random oracle model.
Deﬁnition 2.1 Let S = (K,S,V) be a signature scheme and let I be the global information. The
adversaryA is given a random public key and access to the random hash oracleH(·) and the signing
oracleSH(·)
I,sk (·). The latter has access to the former oracle, takes a message as input and returns a
signature of it computed using I, sk. The adversary can query its oracles and occasionally returns a
6

pair (M,σ ). The advantage of the adversary Advsign
S,I (A) is deﬁned as the probability of A to output
the valid message-signature pair, such that the message has not been queried to the signing oracle.
The signature scheme S is called to be secure against existential forgery under chosen message
attack (or just a secure signature scheme) if there does not exist a polynomial-time 1 adversary A
with non-negligible advantage Advsign
S,I (A).
3 The Gap-Diﬃe-Hellman (GDH) groups and the GDH signature
scheme
We recall the basic signature scheme of [BLS]. It uses Gap-Diﬃe-Hellman groups, so accordingly
we ﬁrst provide the deﬁnitions for the latter.
3.1 GDH groups
LetG be a multiplicative group of the prime order p. We consider the following two problems in G.
Computational Diﬃe-Hellman (CDH) problem. Given (g,u,v ), the three random ele-
ments of G, to compute h =gloggu·loggv.
Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman (DDH) problem. Given the four G elements (g,u,v,h ), which
with equal probability can be either all random elements of G or have the property that log gu =
logvh, to output 0 in the former case and 1 otherwise.
We will refer to any four elements ofG with the property deﬁned above as a valid Diﬃe-Hellman
(DH) tuple.
We now can deﬁne GDH groups. They are basically the groups where CDH problem is hard,
while DDH problem is easy.
Deﬁnition 3.1 A prime order groupG is a GDH group if there exists an eﬃcient algorithmVDDH()
which solves the Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman problem in G and there is no polynomial-time (in |p|)
algorithm which solves the Computational Diﬃe-Hellman problem.
The details on the existence and composition of GDH groups see [BF, BLS, J, JN].
3.2 The GDH signature scheme
Let G be a GDH group. Let [ {0, 1}∗→G∗] be a hash function family, each member of which maps
arbitrary long strings to G∗ and H be a random member of this family. The global information
I contains the generator g of G, p and a description of H. The algorithms ( K,S,V) of the GDH
signature scheme GS[G] are deﬁned as follows.
• K(I) : Parse I as (p,g,H ). Pick random x
R
← Z∗
p and compute y ← gx. Return ( pk =
(p,g,H,y ), sk =x).
• S(I, sk,M ) : Parse I as (p,g,H ). Compute σ =H(M)x. Return (M,σ ).
• V(pk,M,σ ) : Parse pk as (p,g,H,y ). IfVDDH(g,y,H (M),σ ) = 1 then return 1, else return 0.
In [BLS] the authors state and prove the following result.
Theorem 3.2 Let G be a GDH group. Then GS[G] is a secure signature scheme in the random
oracle model.
1Here and everywhere in the paper we assume that the complexity is measured as a function of a security parameter
contained in the global info I. If I contains more than a security parameter we ﬁx the randomized generator for I
and the probability includes its choices.)
7

4 Robust proactive threshold GDH signature scheme
In this section we present a threshold version of GDH signature scheme which is robust, proactive
and does not require a trusted dealer. The construction is very simple, since the structure of the base
scheme permits to avoid many diﬃculties one needs to overcome while making threshold versions of
many standard signature schemes, such as RSA, DSS, etc.
4.1 Deﬁnitions
We now recall the basic setting and notions of threshold signature schemes.
Communication model. As usual, the participants in our scheme are the set of n players
{P1,...,P n}. All players are connected by a broadcast channel as well as by secure point-to-point
channels.
Threshold secret sharing. The set of values (s1,...,s n) is said to be a ( t,n )-threshold secret
sharing of the value s if anyk≤t values from this set does not reveal any information about s and
there exists an eﬃcient algorithm which takes as input any t + 1 values from this set and outputss.
We write (s1,...,s n)
(t,n)
−→s.
Threshold signature schemes and their security. LetS = (K,S,V) be a signature scheme
and let I be the associated global information. A corresponding ( t,n )-threshold signature scheme
TS = (TK,TS ,V) consists of three algorithms, where the veriﬁcation algorithm is the same as ofS.
A randomized distributedthreshold key generation algorithmTK is an interactive protocol that takes
I and is run by the playersP1,...,P n. The protocol returns the public keypk, and the private output
of each player Pi is a value xi such that (x1,...,x n)
(t,n)
−→sk, where sk is a secret key corresponding
to pk.TK is said to complete successfully if it outputs (sk, pk) having the distribution the same as
the output ofK. The distributed possibly randomized threshold signature generation algorithmTS
is an interactive protocol run by the subset of the players, where the input of each player Pi is a
messageM, the global info I and the player’s private input xi. The algorithm can be considered as
consisting of two interactive protocols: a signature share generation and signature reconstruction.
At the end of the signature share generation protocol each player outputs its signature share. All
signature shares are then combined using the signature reconstruction protocol. The output of the
algorithm is a message-signature pair (M,σ ).TS is said to complete successfully if it outputs (M,σ )
such that (M,σ ) =S(I, sk,M ), for all M∈{ 0, 1}∗.
Deﬁnition 4.1 Let I be the global info, S = (K,S,V) be a signature scheme and let TS =
(TK,TS ,V) be the corresponding threshold signature scheme. TS is called secure robust threshold
signature scheme if the following conditions hold:
1. Unforgeability. No polynomial-time adversary which is given I, is allowed to corrupt up to t
players and given the view of the protocolsTK,TS , the latter being run on the input messages
of the adversary’s choice, can produce the pair ( M,σ ) such that M has not been submitted
by the adversary as public input to TS .
2. Robustness. For every polynomial-time adversary that is allowed to corrupt up to t players,
the protocolsTK,TS complete successfully.
In the above deﬁnition corruption means that an adversary chooses the players it wants to corrupt
in advance and is allowed to alter the computation of the corrupted player in any way and to see
their private inputs. If the above deﬁnition is adjusted to the random oracle model, then all the
parties are given access to the random hash oracle.
8

4.2 TGS , the threshold GDH signature scheme
We now describe our construction.
LetG be a GDH group, I = (p,g,H ) be the global info and let TGS [G] = (K,S,V) be the GDH
signature scheme as deﬁned in Section 3.2. The algorithms TK,TS of the corresponding threshold
GDH signature scheme TGS [G] = (TK,TS ,V) are deﬁned as follows.
• TKis exactly the distributed key generation protocol DKG for discrete-log based systems of
Gennaro et al. [GJKR99] 2. It is jointly executed by a set of paries {P1,...,P n} It takes as
inputI and outputs a public keyy. The private output of each playerPi is a sharexi such that
(x1,...,x n)
(t,n)
−→x, where x = loggy. Any subset R of t + 1 players can reconstruct x using
well-known techniques of Lagrange interpolation: x =∑
i∈RLixi, where Li is the appropriate
Lagrange coeﬃcient for the set R. As [GJKR99] shows, for each share xi, the value Bi =gxi
can be computed from publicly available information broadcast during the protocol execution.
Hence, we assume that these values are publicly available and will use them in order to achieve
robustness.
• In order to execute the signature share generation protocol of TS each player Pi in the any
subset of more than t players takes input a message M and its private share xi and computes
the share of the signature σi = H(M)xi and broadcasts σi. The signature reconstruction
protocol can be performed by any player or a set of players. We will assume for simplicity
that it is run by some designated player D. In order to achieve robustness for D checks
thatVDDH(g,Bi,H (M),σi) = 1each i. If this does not hold, new output requested from the
corresponding player or it assumed malicious. Assuming wlog that R is a set of t + 1 honest
players, D computes the resulting signature σ = Π i∈R(σLi
i ), where Li is the appropriate
publicly known Lagrange coeﬃcient for the set R. The output of the protocol is ( M,σ ).
We summarized the properties of TGS in Section 1.
Theorem 4.2 LetG be a GDH group. Then TGS [G] is a secure threshold signature scheme in the
random oracle model against an adversary which is allowed to corrupt any t<n/ 2 players.
The proof of the above theorem is in Section A.
4.3 Adding proactive security
The idea of the proactive approach is to periodically renew shares of a secret such that information
gained by an adversary learning some number of shares (less than a threshold) in one time period
be useless for the adversary’s next attacks in the future time periods when all shares are renewed.
Proactive secret sharing algorithm PSS has been proposed in [HJKY]. In order to simplify an
application of PSS [HJJKY] state the requirements on a threshold signature scheme for proac-
tivization with the help of the PSS protocol. Namely, the authors prove that the security of the
robust threshold signature scheme will be preserved when used with PSS protocol if it is a discrete-
log based robust threshold signature scheme, which threshold key generation protocol implements
2We are interested in veriﬁable threshold key generation algorithms without a trusted dealer producing Shamir’s
secret sharing of a secret [S]. Some threshold signature scheme, e.g. threshold DSS proposed in [GJKR96] use the
distributed key generation protocol (DKG) of Pedersen [P]. The intuition behind the latter protocol is to have n
parallel executions of Feldman’s veriﬁable secret sharing protocol [F], such that each player acts as a dealer. However,
[GJKR99] point out the weakness of DKG of [P]. Namely, it is possible for a corruptive adversary to prevent the
protocol by completing correctly by manipulating the distribution of the shared secret key.DKG protocol of [GJKR99]
is based on the ideas similar to the protocol of [P], has comparable complexity, but provably ﬁxes the weakness of the
latter. We use the security results of [GJKR99] to prove the security of our threshold signature scheme.
9

Shamir’s secret sharing of the secret signature key x corresponding to the public key y = gx and
outputs veriﬁcation information ( gx1,...,g xn), where (x1,...,x n) are secret shares of the players
and if the threshold signature protocol is simulatable. As it is easy to note our threshold signature
scheme TGS = (TK,TS ,V) meets all these requirements (recall that the veriﬁcation information
mentioned above is not explicitely output by TK but can be computed using publicly available
information.) Thus TGS can be proactivized using PSS and methods of [HJKY, HJJKY]. We
add that PSS outputs the veriﬁcation information after each share update, hence the veriﬁcation
of signature shares can be conducted as before.
We now brieﬂy summarize the properties of TGS . It is robust and can tolerate any t < n/2
malicious parties. Its key generation protocol does not require a trusted dealer. Its signature
share generation protocol is basically the signing algorithm of the base scheme and the signature
reconstruction requires only multiplication of shares. Therefore the signature generation protocol
does not require interaction or any zero-knowledge proofs, and has a minimal overhead compared to
that of the base scheme. The shares are short and their length does not depend on the number of
parties. We also showed how proactive security can be added to our scheme using general methods
of [HJKY, HJJKY].
We compared the new GDH threshold signature scheme with some other existing constructions
in Section 1.
5 The GDH multisignature scheme
5.1 Multisignature schemes
Let P = {P1,...,P n} be a group of n players. Let I be the global information string. The
algorithms of a multisignature schemeMS = (MK,MS,MV) are deﬁned as follows. A randomized
key generation algorithmMK takes a global information I and outputs a pair ( sk, pk) of a secret
and a public keys. Each player Pi∈P runs this algorithm and as a result obtains a pair of secret
and public keys ( ski, pki). A possibly randomized multisignature generation algorithmMS is an
interactive protocol run by an arbitrary subset of players L⊆P. The input of each player Pi∈L
is a message M ∈{ 0, 1}∗, the global info I and the player’s secret key ski. The output of the
algorithm is a triple T = (M,L,σ ) consisting of the message, description of the subgroup L and the
multisignature. A deterministic veriﬁcation algorithmMV takes the public keys of all players in L
and T and outputs 1 (accepts) or 0 (rejects).
Note that it is up to a particular application to decide what subgroup is required to sign a
message. A person who veriﬁes the validity of a multisignature might reject it not because it’s
invalid but because she is not satisﬁed with the subgroup which signed the message. We leave it to
applications to agree each time on the desired subgroup of signers and for the analysis we do not
take this problem into account.
5.2 MGS , the GDH multisignature scheme
We now describe the new multisignature scheme MGS = (MK,MS,MV) which is based on the
GS signature scheme of [BLS] we recalled in Section 3.2. The construction is very simple and
eﬃcient, and it also solves an open problem stated in [MOR], namely, to ﬁnd a provably secure
multisignature scheme where the composition of the subgroup can be decided after the signature
shares are computed by the signers.
Let G be a GDH group and let I be the global information that consists of a generator g of G,
p =|G| and a description H of a random member of the family of hash functions [{0, 1}∗→G∗]. Let
10

P ={P1,..., Pn} be the group of players.
• MK: The same as the key generation algorithmK of GDH signature schemeGS (see Section 3.2.)
Recall that each player Pi runs this protocol and obtains public key pki = (p,g,H,y i) and
secret key ski =xi, where yi =gxi.
• MS: Any player Pj∈P with a secret key skj =xj, that wishes to participate in signing takes
M, computes and broadcasts σj←H(M)xj. Let L ={Pi1,...,P il} be a subgroup of players
contributed to the signing. Let J ={i1,...,i l} denote the set of indeces of such players. The
designated signer D (which can be implemented by any player) that we assume wlog knows
the signer of each signature computes σ = Πj∈J(σj) and outputs T = (M,L,σ ).
• MV: The veriﬁer takes T = (M,L,σ ) and the list of public keys of the players in L:
(pki1,..., pkil), where pkij =gxij for each ij∈J. The veriﬁer computes pkL = Πj∈J(pkj) =
Πj∈J(gxj) and outputsVDDH(g, pkL,H (M),σ ).
The robustness property can be added to MGS if D veriﬁes the validity of each signature it
receives. We provided the comparison of MGS with other multisignature schemes in Section 1.
Batch verification of GS signatures. The approach underlying the above multisignature
scheme can easily be applied to provide eﬃcient batch veriﬁcation of several GS signatures of
the same message under diﬀerent public keys 3. A veriﬁer needs ﬁrst to play the role of D above
to multiply the given signatures and then continue the veriﬁcation according to the veriﬁcation
algorithm above.
5.3 Security of multisignatures
The notion of security for multisignatures has to capture the possibility of an adversary to “forge”
a subgroup L and a multisignature of some message such that the latter is accepted by a veriﬁer
when not all players of the subgroupL did sign the message. In other words, no valid multisignature
should keep an honest player that part of L accountable if it did not participate in signing.
In order to achieve its goal an adversary might corrupt players, send arbitrary messages during
multisignature generation protocol, etc. We also allow an adversary to create arbitrary keys for
corrupted players, possibly dependent on the keys of honest players, in order to model well-known
rogue-key attacks. With respect to these attacks we put only one limitation on the adversary,
namely we require it to prove knowledge of secret keys during the public key registration, which
is (or should be) the standard practice. We model this for simplicity by asking the adversary to
output public and secret key of corrupted users in key generation algorithm. Alternatively we could
ask the adversary to provide proofs of knowledge so we be able to extract secret keys, however, this
would unnecessary complicate the model. We allow an adversary to corrupt all but one player and
its goal is to “frame” the honest player.
We note that such a powerful adversary can always deviate from the protocol thus preventing
generating a valid multisignature. Similarly to [MOR] we do not focus on the robustness property
in this work. We will sketch, however, how our multisignature scheme can be made robust.
We now formalize the notion of security for multisignatures. It is similar to the one given in
[MOR], however, our deﬁnition is more general in that an idividual signer does not have to know
the subgroup of co-signers.
3This problem is orthogonal to the problem of batch veriﬁcation of signatures of the diﬀerent messages under the
same key, which has been addressed in [BGR].
11

Deﬁnition 5.1 An adversary A learns the global info I and a randomly generated public key pk1
corresponding to a single honest player. Wlog we refer to the honest player P1. A generates and
outputs the rest ofn−1 pairs of public and secret keys and is allowed to run multisignature generation
protocol with the honest player on behalf of n− 1 corrupted players on the messages chosen by the
adversary. The advantage of the adversary Advmult
MS,I (A) is deﬁned as the probability of A to output
the valid message–subgroup-signature triple (M,L,σ ), such that P1∈L,MV(M,L,σ ) = 1 and P1
did not complete the multisignature generation protocol on the input message M.
We say that a multisignature scheme MS is secure against existential forgery under chosen
message attack (or just secure multisignature scheme) if there does not exist a polynomial-time
adversaryA with non-negligible advantage Advmult
MS,I (A).
As usual, in order to adjust the above deﬁnition to the random oracle model all parties and the
signing oracle are given access to the random hash oracle.
5.4 Security of the MGS multisignature scheme
Theorem 5.2 Let G be a GDH group. Then MGS [G] is a secure multisignature scheme in the
random oracle model.
The proof of the above theorem can be found in Section B.
6 The blind GDH signature scheme
The syntax of the key generation and veriﬁcation algorithms BK,BV of a blind signature scheme
BS = (BK,BS,BV) is the same as the one of the corresponding algorithms of a regular signature
scheme. The blind signing algorithmBS is an interactive protocol between a user and a signer,
where the former knows the public key and the latter is given the global info and the secret key.
And the end of the protocol the user outputs a message-signature pair ( M,σ ). It is required that if
(M,σ ) is the output of the blind signing algorithm, then V(pk,M,σ ) = 1.
6.1 BGS, the blind GDH signature
We now propose a new blind signature scheme based on GDH signature scheme.
Let G be a GDH group. Let I = (p,g,H ) be the global info. Let GS[G] be the GDH sig-
nature scheme of [BLS] we recalled in Section 3.2. The blind GDH signature scheme BGS[G] =
(BK,BS,BV) is deﬁned as follows. The algorithms BK,BV are the same as those of GS. The
blind signing protocol BS is deﬁned as follows. The user holds a public key pk = (p,g,H,y ). In
order to “blindly” sign a message M∈{ 0, 1}∗ the user picks a random number r
R
←Z∗
p, computes
M = H(M)·gr and sends it to the signer. The signer knows I = (p,g,H ), sk = x. The signer
computesσ = (M)x and sends it to the user. The latter computes σ←σ·y−r and outputs (M,σ ).
Note that above σ =H(M)x, that is a valid signature on M.
6.2 Security of blind signatures
The notion of security of blind signatures captures two properties. The ﬁrst property is “blindness”,
meaning the signer in the blind signing protocol should not learn any information about the messages
the user obtained signatures on. The second property is a special form of unforgeability, namely, the
user that has been engaged in l runs of the blind signing protocol should not be able to obtain more
than l signatures. The standard notion of unforgeability under chosen-message attack of digital
12

signatures [GMR] cannot be used as a notion of unforgeability for blind signatures since by their
construction a user has to be able to produce a valid signature of a previously unsigned message. The
accepted formalization of security for blind signature is security against one-more-forgery [PS, PS1].
Deﬁnition 6.1 Let S = (K,S,V) be a signature scheme and let BS = (BK,BS,BV) be the corre-
sponding blind signature scheme. An adversary A learns the public key pk randomly generated by
BK. A is allowed to play the role of a user in the runs of the blind signing protocol. After inter-
actions with the signer A outputs some number of message-signature pairs. The advantage of the
adversary Advblind
BS,I (A) is deﬁned as the probability of A to output a set L of valid message-signature
pairs, such that the number of invoked blind signing protocols with the signer is strictly less than
the size of L.
We say that the blind signature scheme BS is secure against one-more forgery under chosen
message attack or just secure blind signature scheme if there does not exist a polynomial-time
adversaryA with non-negligible advantage Advblind
BS,I (A).
6.3 Chosen target CDH assumption
First we claim thatBGS has the blindness property. This is because the signer receives only random
elements in G which are independent of the outputs of the user.
Similarly to the proof of security of the Chaum’s RSA-based blind signature scheme [C] given
in [BNPS] we reduce the security in the sense of unforgeability of the blind signature scheme to
the chosen-target version of the appropriate computational assumption. Security of the RSA blind
signature is proven secure assuming hardness of the chosen-target RSA inversion problem [BNPS].
Namely, the assumption states that for a randomly generated RSA key pairpk = (N,e ), sk = (N,d )4
no polynomial time adversary which is given pk, the “target” oracle which outputs random target
points in Z∗
N and the “helper” RSA inversion oracle ( ·)d mod N can invert (compute (·)d mod N)
any subset of the target points such that the number of queries to the helper RSA inversion oracle
is strictly less than the number of queries to the target oracle. It is suggested in [BNPS] that an
analogue of this assumption can be formulated for any family of one-way functions. We propose the
following analogous problem and the assumption.
Deﬁnition 6.2 [The chosen-target CDH problem and assumption ] Let G =< g >be a
group of a prime order p. Let x be a random element of Z∗
p and let y = gx. Let H be a random
instance of a hash function family [{0, 1}∗→G∗] The adversaryB is given (p,g,H,y ) and has access
to the target oracleTG that returns random points zi inG and the helper oracle (·)x. Let qt, (resp.
qh) be the number of queries B made to the target (resp. helper) oracles. The advantage of the
adversary attacking the chosen-target CDH problem Advct−cdh
G (B) is deﬁned as the probability of
B to output a set V of, say, l pairs ((v1,j 1),... (vl,jl)), where for all 1 ≤ i≤ l∃ 1≤ ji≤ qt such
that vi =zx
ji, all vi are distinct and qh<q t.
The chosen-target CDH assumption states that there is no polynomial-time adversary B with
non-negligible Advct−cdh
G (B).
Note that if the above adversary makes one query to the target oracle then the chosen-target
CDH assumption is equivalent to the standard CDH assumption. We assume that the chosen-target
CDH problem is hard for all groups where CDH problem is hard; this includes GDH groups.
4Here N = pq is a product of two random primes, e is a random element of Z∗
φ(N) and ed≡ 1 mod φ(N), where
φ(·) is a Euler’s totient function.
13

6.4 Security of the BGS blind signature scheme
Theorem 6.3 If the chosen-target CDH assumption is true in the group G then theBGS[G] blind
signature scheme is secure against one-more forgery under chosen message attack.
We provide the proof in Section C.
7 Acknowledgements
We thank Mihir Bellare for the useful discussions, for suggesting to consider the topic of threshold
signature schemes and for convincing us to ﬁnally put the ideas into writing. We thank Daniele
Micciancio and Adriana Palacio for their useful comments on the draft of this paper. We also thank
Leonid Reyzin for clariﬁcations on [MOR].
References
[BR] M. Bellare and P. Rogaway, Random oracles are practical: a paradigm for designing eﬃcient
protocols. First ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security , ACM, 1993.
[BNPS] M. Bellare, C. Namprempre, D. Pointcheval and M. Semanko , “The One-More-RSA-
Inversion Problems and the security of Chaum’s Blind Signature Scheme,” e-print archive, report
#2001/02. The preliminary version of this paper “The Power of RSA Inversion Oracles and the
Security of Chaum’s RSA-Based Blind Signature Scheme” appeared in Financial Cryptography
01, Lecture Notes in Computer Science Vol. 2339, P. Syverson ed, Springer-Verlag, 2001.
[BGR] M. Bellare, J. Garay and T. Rabin, “Fast batch veriﬁcation for modular exponentiation and
digital signatures ,” Advances in Cryptology – Eurocrypt ’98 , LNCS Vol. 1403, K. Nyberg ed.,
Springer-Verlag, 1998.
[BW] E. Berlekamp and L. Welch, “Error correction of algebraic block codes,” US Patent 4,633,470.
[BF] D. Boneh and M. Franklin . “Identity-based encryption from the Weil Pairing,” Advances in
Cryptology – Crypto ’01 , LNCS Vol. 2139, J. Kilian ed., Springer-Verlag, 2001.
[BLS] D. Boneh and B. Lynn and H. Shacham, “Short signatures from the Weil pairing,” Advances
in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT ’01, LNCS Vol. 2248, C. Boyd ed., Springer-Verlag, 2001.
[B] C. Boyd, “Digital multisignatures,” Cryptography and Coding, 1986
[CS] J. Camenisch and M. Stadler , “Eﬃcient group signatures for large groups,” Advances in
Cryptology – Crypto ’97 , LNCS Vol. 1294, B. Kaliski ed., Springer-Verlag, 1997.
[C] D. Chaum, “Blind signatures for untreaceable payments,” Advances in Cryptology – Crypto ’82 ,
LNCS Vol. , ed., Springer-Verlag, 1982.
[CvH] D. Chaum and E. van Heyst , “Group signatures,” Advances in Cryptology – Eurocrypt ’91 ,
LNCS Vol. 547, D. Davies ed., Springer-Verlag, 1991.
[CH] R. Canetti and A. Herzberg , “ Maintaining security in the presence of transient faults,”
Advances in Cryptology – Crypto ’94 , LNCS Vol. 839, Y. Desmedt ed., Springer-Verlag, 1994.
[D88] Y. Desmedt, “Society and group oriented cryptography,” Advances in Cryptology – Crypto ’87 ,
LNCS Vol. 293, C. Pomerance ed., Springer-Verlag, 1987.
[D94] Y. Desmedt, “Threshold cryptography,”, European Transactions on Telecommunications , 5(4),
1994.
[DF89] Y. Desmedt and Y. Frankel , “Threshold cryptosystems,” Advances in Cryptology – Crypto
’89, LNCS Vol. 435, G. Brassard ed., Springer-Verlag, 1989.
[DF91] Y. Desmedt and Y. Frankel, “Shared generation of authenticators and signatures,” Advances
in Cryptology – Crypto ’91 , LNCS Vol. 576, J. Feigenbaum ed., Springer-Verlag, 1991.
14

[F] P. Feldman “A practical scheme for non-interactive veriﬁable secret sharing,” Proceedings of
the 28th Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science , IEEE, 1987.
[FD] Y. Frankel and Y. Desmedt “Parallel reliable threshold multisignature,” Technical report
TR-92-04-02, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 1992.
[FGMY] Y. Frankel, P. Gemmal, P. MacKenzie and M. Yung , “Proactive RSA,” Advances in
Cryptology – Crypto ’97 , LNCS Vol. 1294, B. Kaliski ed., Springer-Verlag, 1997.
[GMLS] S. Galbraith, J. Malone-Lee, N. P. Smart, “Public key signatures in the multi-user setting”,
Information Processing Letters, Vol. 83, Issue 5, 2002.
[GJKR96] R. Gennaro, S. Jarecki, H. Krawczyk and T. Rabin , “Robust threshold DSS signatures,”
Advances in Cryptology – Eurocrypt ’96 , LNCS Vol. 1070, U. Maurer ed., Springer-Verlag, 1996.
[GJKR99] R. Gennaro, S. Jarecki, H. Krawczyk and T. Rabin , “Secure distributed key generation
for discrete-log based cryptosystems”, Advances in Cryptology – Eurocrypt ’99 , LNCS Vol. 1592,
J. Stern ed., Springer-Verlag, 1999.
[GMR] S. Goldwasser, S. Micali and R. Rivest, “A digital signature secure against adaptive chosen-
message attacks”, SIAM Journal on Computing, 17(2):281-308, 1988.
[H] L. Harn, “Group-oriented (t,n) threshold digital signature scheme and digital multisignature,”
IEE Proc. Computers and Digital Techniques , 141(5), 1994.
[HJJKY] A. Herzberg, M. Jakobsson, S. Jarecki, H. Krawczyk and M. Yung , “Proactive public
key and signature systems,” ACM Conference on Computers and Communication Security, 1997.
22:612-613, (1979).
[HJKY] A. Herzberg, S. Jarecki, H. Krawczyk and M. Yung , “Proactive secret sharing, or: How
to cope with perpetual leakage,”, Advances in Cryptology – Crypto ’95 , LNCS Vol. 963, D. Cop-
persmith ed., Springer-Verlag, 1995.
[HMP] P. Horster, M. Michels and H. Petersen , “Meta-multisignatures schemes based on the
discrete logarithm problem,” IFIP/Sec 1995.
[IN] K. Itakura and K. Nakamura, “A public key cryptosystem suitable for digital multisignatures,”
NEC Research & Development, 71:1-8, 1983.
[J] A. Joux, “A one-round protocol for tripartite Diﬃe-Hellman,” ANTS-IV conference, vol. 1838.
[JN] A. Joux and K. Nguyen , “Separating Decision Diﬃe-Hellman from Diﬃe-Hellman in crypto-
graphic groups,” e-print archive, report #2001/03.
[LHL] C. Li, T. Hwang and N. Lee , “Threshold-multisignature schemes where suspected forgery
implies traceability of adversarial shareholders,” Advances in Cryptology – Eurocrypt ’94 , LNCS
Vol. 950, A. De Santis ed., Springer-Verlag, 1994.
[L] A. Lysyanskaya, “Unique signatures and veriﬁable random functions from the DH-DDH separa-
tion”, Advances in Cryptology, Crypto’02, 2002.
[MOR] S. Micali, K. Ohta and L. Reyzin, “Accountable-subgroup multisignatures,” ACM Conference
on Computer and Communications Security , 2001.
[O] T. Okamoto, “A digital multisignature schema using bijective public-key cryptosystems,” ACM
Transaction on Computer Systems, 6(4): 432-441, 1988.
[OO91] K. Ohta and T. Okamoto, “A digital multisignature scheme based on the Fiat-Shamir scheme”,
Advances in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT ’91, LNCS Vol. 739, H. Imai, R. Rivest and T. Matsumoto
ed., Springer-Verlag, 1991.
[OO99] K. Ohta and T. Okamoto , “Multi-signature scheme secure against active insider attacks”,
IEICE Transactions on Fundamentals of Electronics Communications and Computer Sciences ,
E82-A(1):21-31, 1999.
[OY] R. Ostrovsky and M. Yung , “How to withstand mobile virus attacks,” PODC, 1991.
[P] T. Pedersen, “Non-interactive and information-theoretic secure veriﬁable secret sharing,” Ad-
vances in Cryptology – Eurocrypt ’91 , LNCS Vol. 547, D. Davies ed., Springer-Verlag, 1991.
[PS] D. Pointcheval and J. Stern , “Provably secure blind signature schemes,” Advances in Cryp-
tology – ASIACRYPT ’96, LNCS Vol. 1163, ?? ed., Springer-Verlag, 1996.
15

[PS1] D. Pointcheval and J. Stern, “Security arguments for digital signatures and blind signatures,”
Journal of cryptology, 13(3):361-396, 2000.
[R] T. Rabin, “A simpliﬁed approach to threshold and proactive RSA,” Advances in Cryptology –
Crypto ’98, LNCS Vol. 1462, H. Krawczyk ed., Springer-Verlag, 1998.
[RST] R. Rivest, A. Shamir and Y. Tauman , “How to leak a secret”, Advances in Cryptology –
ASIACRYPT ’01, LNCS Vol. 2248, C. Boyd ed., Springer-Verlag, 2001.
[S] A. Shamir, “How to share a secret,” Communications of the ACM, 22:612-613, (1979).
[Sh] V. Shoup , “Practical threshold signatures”, Advances in Cryptology – Eurocrypt ’00 , LNCS
Vol. 1807, B. Preneel ed., Springer-Verlag, 2000
A Proof of Theorem 4.2
Proof: We start from the robustness property. The correctness properties of DKG proven in
[GJKR99] are: in the presence of a an adversary that corrupts t < n/2 players all subsets of t + 1
shares deﬁne the same unique x that correspond to the unique public key y = gx mod p, x is
uniformly distributed in Z∗
p and thus y is uniformly distributed in G =< g >. This implies that
TK that is DKG completes successfully even in the presence of a corruptive adversary. Now note
that only valid signature shares can pass the veriﬁcation step ofTS since each valid signature share
σi is a valid GS signature corresponding to the public key gxi = Bi and the veriﬁcation step of
TS is analogous to the signature veriﬁcation algorithm V of GS[G]. Now assuming the resulting
signatureσ is computed as multiplication oft+1 valid shares of the formH(M)Li·xi due to Lagrange
interpolation σ =H(M)x which means thatTS complete successfully.
We now prove the unforgeability property. As shown in [GJKR96] the following implies unforgeabil-
ity of TS = (TK,TS ,V): if the underlying signature scheme S = (K,S,V) is secure and if TS is
simulatable, where the latter condition means that for every probabilistic polynomial-time adversary
A that corrupts up to t players there exists a probabilistic polynomial-time simulator SIM that on
input the public keyy andM the signatureσ ofM can simulate the view forA that is polynomially
indistinguishable fromA’s view of a run ofTK protocol that outputs y and the following run ofTS
that outputsσ. The simulator for a view of a run ofTK of an adversary which corrupts anyt<n/ 2
players is presented in [GJKR99] as their proof of security ofDKG. Wlog [GJKR99] assumes that A
corrupts the players with indices 1,...,t ′ wheret′≤t. So will do we in our discussion. In particular,
it is shown in [GJKR99] that SIM knows all the shares xi but one (wlog assumed to be xn) of the
honest players, and the values corresponding to the last share can be computed using the ﬁxed y
and the rest of the shares. All the shares have the right distribution (note that the last share is not
known to SIM , but it is implicitly used in the values that SIM computes and outputs.) We use a
similar approach in order to extend the construction of SIM to simulate the view of A in the run
ofTS . SIM can verify the validity of signature shares output by corrupted parties being honest
during the run of TK using knowledge of their shares. It needs to simulate the signature shares of
the uncorrupted parties. Since SIM has all the shares xt′+1,...,x n−1 it can create signature shares
as σi = H(M)xi for i = t′ + 1,...,n − 1. SIM creates the signature share corresponding to the
playerPn as σn =σ· Πi∈R(σi)−1. Since as shown [GJKR99] all the shares used by SIM have the
right distribution (including the one corresponding to the n’s player whichSIM implicitly does not
know,) then all the signature shares computed by SIM have the right distribution. This is because
all signature shares but σn explicitely use known corresponding secret shares and by construction
σn corresponds to the share xn implicitly used by SIM .
The above arguments together with Theorem 3.2 imply the statement of the theorem. Note that
random oracle assumption is used only by the proof of security of the base scheme.
16

B Proof of Theorem 5.2
Proof: LetA be a poly-time adversary for the GDH multisignature scheme MGS [G]. We will con-
struct the adversary B for the GS[G] signature scheme such that Advmult
MGS [G],I(A) = Advsign
GS[G],I(B).
This means that if GS[G] is a secure signature scheme then MGS [G] is a secure multisignature
scheme. Having the result of Theorem 3.2, the statement of the above theorem follows.
The intuition of the proof is that if A manages to frame an honest player by constructing a valid
multisignature on some message without interaction with this honest player, then B can derive a
forgery on the previously unsigned message. We now give the details. B is having a public key y
and access to the random hash oracle and the signing oracle. B will run A simulating for it the
single honest player. First B gives A the public key pk1 = y. Then A outputs the set of n− 1
public and secret key pairs ( y2,x 2),..., (yn,xn), where yi = gxi for 1 < i≤ n. B simulates A’s
random hash oracle using its own oracle. Whenever A asks the honest player to participate in
multisignature generation protocol on some message M, B forwards the query to its signing oracle
and returns the reply back to A. At some point A outputs an attempted forgery T = (M,L,σ L).
Wlog suppose yj1,...,y jl are the public keys of the players that constitute L. Then B computes
σ = σL· Πj∈J/{1}(H(M)−xj) and outputs (M,σ ). It is easy to see that B simulates for A a valid
experiment, runs in time comparable to running time of A and that it succeeds in forgery whenever
A is successful (in this case σ =H(M)x.)
C Proof of Theorem 6.3
Proof: Let G be a GDH group and let I = (p,g,H ) be the global info. Let A be any poly-
time adversary attacking BGS[G] against one-more forgery under chosen message attack. We will
present a poly-time adversary B for the chosen-target CDH problem such that Advblind
BS[G],I(A) =
Advct−cdh
G (B). The statement of the theorem follows.
We note that since the signer inBS protocol of BGS scheme has only one move, it is enough in the
deﬁnition of security of Deﬁnition 6.1 to give A access to a blind signing oracle (·)x, where x is a
secret input hold by the signer. Since we analyze security of BGS in the random oracle model, the
adversaryA is also given access to the random hash oracle H(·).
We now describe the algorithm of B which will simulateA in order to solve the chosen-target CDH
problem. The adversary B is given (p,g,H,y ) and the target and helper oracles. B ﬁrst provides
A with the public key pk = (p,g,H,y ). B has to simulate the random hash oracle and the blind
signing oracle for A. Each time A makes a new hash oracle query, that is distinct from the previous
hash queries, B forwards it to its target oracle, returns the reply to A and adds this query and the
reply to the stored list of such pairs. If A makes a hash query that it already made before, B replies
consistently with an old reply. WhenA makes a query to the blind signing oracle,B re-sends it to its
helper oracle (·)x and forwards the answer toA. At some point A outputs a list of message-signature
pairs ((M1,σ 1),..., (Ml,σl)). For each 1≤i≤l BﬁndsMi in the list of stored hash oracle queries
and replies. Let ji be the index of the found pair. B returns the list (σ1,j 1),..., (σl,jl) as its own
output.
It is easy to see that the view of A in the simulated experiment is indistinguishable from its view in
the real experiment and thatB is successful only ifA is successful. Thus Advblind
BS,I (A) = Advct−cdh
G (B)
17