Aggregate and Veriﬁably Encrypted Signatures from Bilinear Maps ∗
Dan Boneh
dabo@cs.stanford.edu
Craig Gentry
cgentry@docomolabs-usa.com
Ben Lynn
blynn@cs.stanford.edu
Hovav Shacham
hovav@cs.stanford.edu
Abstract
An aggregate signature scheme is a digital signature that supports aggregation: Given n
signatures on n distinct messages from n distinct users, it is possible to aggregate all these
signatures into a single short signature. This single signature (and the n original messages)
will convince the veriﬁer that the n users did indeed sign the n original messages (i.e., user i
signed message Mi for i = 1,...,n ). In this paper we introduce the concept of an aggregate
signature, present security models for such signatures, and give several applications for aggregate
signatures. We construct an eﬃcient aggregate signature from a recent short signature scheme
based on bilinear maps due to Boneh, Lynn, and Shacham. Aggregate signatures are useful
for reducing the size of certiﬁcate chains (by aggregating all signatures in the chain) and for
reducing message size in secure routing protocols such as SBGP. We also show that aggregate
signatures give rise to veriﬁably encrypted signatures. Such signatures enable the veriﬁer to test
that a given ciphertext C is the encryption of a signature on a given message M . Veriﬁably
encrypted signatures are used in contract-signing protocols. Finally, we show that similar ideas
can be used to extend the short signature scheme to give simple ring signatures.
1 Introduction
Many real-world applications involve signatures on many diﬀerent messages generated by many
diﬀerent users. For example, in a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) of depth n, each user is given
a chain of n certiﬁcates. The chain contains n signatures by n Certiﬁcate Authorities (CAs) on
n distinct certiﬁcates. Similarly, in the Secure BGP protocol (SBGP) [21] each router receives a
list of k signatures attesting to a certain path of length k in the network. A router signs its own
segment in the path and forwards the resulting list of k + 1 signatures to the next router. As
a result, the number of signatures in routing messages is linear in the length of the path. Both
applications would beneﬁt from a method for compressing the list of signatures on distinct messages
issued by distinct parties. Speciﬁcally, X.509 certiﬁcate chains could be shortened by compressing
the n signatures in the chain into a single signature.
An aggregate signature scheme enables us to achieve precisely this type of compression. Suppose
each of n users has a public-private key pair ( PKi, SKi). User ui signs message Mi to obtain a
signatureσi. Then there is a public aggregation algorithm that takes as input all of σ1,...,σ n and
outputs a short compressed signature σ. Anyone can undertake the aggregation. Moreover, the
∗This is the full version of a paper that appeared in Eurocrypt 2003 [6].
1

aggregation can be incremental: Signatures σ1,σ 2 can be aggregated into σ12 which can then be
further aggregated with σ3 to obtain σ123. In the generation of a certiﬁcate chain, each CA can
incrementally aggregate its own signature into the chain. There is also an aggregate veriﬁcation
algorithm that takes PK1,..., PKn,M1,...,M n, andσ and decides whether the aggregate signature
is valid. Intuitively, the security requirement is that the aggregate signature σ is declared valid
only if the aggregator who created σ was given all of σ1,...,σ n. Precise security deﬁnitions are
given in Sect. 3.2. Thus, an aggregate signature provides non-repudiation at once on many diﬀerent
messages by many users.
We construct an aggregate signature scheme based on a recent short signature due to Boneh,
Lynn, and Shacham (BLS) [7]. This signature scheme works in any group where the Decision Diﬃe-
Hellman problem (DDH) is easy, but the Computational Diﬃe-Hellman problem (CDH) is hard.
We refer to such groups as gap groups [7, 29]. Recently there have been a number of constructions
using such gap groups [7, 22, 10, 4]. Surprisingly, general gap groups are insuﬃcient for constructing
eﬃcient aggregate signatures. Instead, our construction uses a pair of groups G1,G T and a bilinear
map e :G1×G1→GT where CDH is hard in G1. Joux and Nguyen [20] showed that the map e
can be used to solve DDH in G1, and so G1 is a gap group. It is the extra structure provided by
the bilinear map that enables us to construct an eﬃcient aggregate signature scheme. We do not
know how to build eﬃcient aggregate signatures from general gap groups. Thus, our construction
is an example where the bilinear map provides extra functionality beyond a simple algorithm for
solving DDH. Bilinear maps were previously used for three-way Diﬃe-Hellman [19], Identity-Based
Encryption (IBE) [5], and Hierarchical IBE [18, 15].
Aggregate signatures are related to multisignatures [23, 28, 27, 4]. In multisignatures, a set of
users all sign the same message and the result is a single signature. Recently, Micali et al. [23]
deﬁned a security model for multisignatures and gave some constructions and applications. Mul-
tisignatures are insuﬃcient for the applications we have in mind, such as certiﬁcate chains and
SBGP. For these applications we must be able to aggregate signatures on distinct messages. We
note that recently Boldyreva [4] showed that general gap groups are suﬃcient for constructing mul-
tisignatures from BLS signatures. As noted above, to obtain aggregate signatures, one needs the
extra structure provided by bilinear maps.
Our application of aggregate signatures to compressing certiﬁcate chains is related to an open
problem posed by Micali and Rivest [24]: Given a certiﬁcate chain and some special additional
signatures, can intermediate links in the chain be cut out? Aggregate signatures allow the com-
pression of certiﬁcate chains without any additional signatures, but a veriﬁer must still be aware
of all intermediate links in the chain. We note that batch RSA [11] also provides some signature
compression, but only for signatures produced by a single signer.
As a further application for aggregate signatures we show in Sect. 4 that certain aggregate
signature schemes give rise to simple veriﬁably encrypted signatures. These signatures enable user
Alice to give Bob a signature on a message M encrypted using a third party’s public key and Bob to
verify that the encrypted signature is valid. Veriﬁably encrypted signatures are used in optimistic
contract signing protocols [1, 2] to enable fair exchange. Previous constructions [1, 30] require zero
knowledge proofs to verify an encrypted signature. The veriﬁably encrypted signatures in Section 4
are short and can be validated eﬃciently. We note that the resulting contract signing protocol is
not abuse-free in the sense of [12].
As a third application of these ideas we construct in Sect. 5 a simple ring signature [31] using
bilinear maps. As above, the construction using a bilinear map is simpler and more eﬃcient than
2

constructions that only make use of gap groups.
2 Signature Schemes Based on Co-Gap Diﬃe-Hellman
We ﬁrst review a few concepts related to bilinear maps and Gap Diﬃe-Hellman signatures [7].
Throughout the paper we use the following notation:
1. G1 and G2 are two (multiplicative) cyclic groups of prime order p;
2. g1 is a generator of G1 and g2 is a generator of G2;
3. ψ is a computable isomorphism from G2 to G1, with ψ(g2) = g1; and
4. e is a computable bilinear map e :G1×G2→GT as described below.
The isomorphism ψ is mostly needed for the proofs of security. To keep the discussion general, we
simply assume that ψ exists and is eﬃciently computable. When G1,G 2 are subgroups of the group
of points of an elliptic curve E/Fq, the trace map on the curve can be used as this isomorphism
(we assume G1⊆E(Fq) and G2⊆E(Fqr )).
Throughout the paper, we consider bilinear maps e :G1×G2→GT where all groups G1,G 2,G T
are multiplicative and of prime order p. One could set G1 =G2. However, we allow for the more
general case where G1⁄= G2 so that our constructions can make use of certain families of non-
supersingular elliptic curves deﬁned by Miyaji et al. [25]. These curves give rise to very short
signatures [7]. This will lead in turn to short aggregate signatures, ring signatures, etc. To handle
the case G1⁄=G2 we deﬁne the co-CDH and co-DDH problems [7]. When G1 =G2, these problems
reduce to the standard CDH and DDH problems. Hence, for the remainder of the paper, although
we handle arbitrary G1,G 2, for simplicity, the reader may assume G1 = G2,g 1 = g2, and ψ = I,
the identity map.
With this setup we obtain natural generalizations of the CDH and DDH problems:
Computational Co-Diﬃe-Hellman. Giveng2,g a
2∈G2 and h∈G1 compute ha∈G1.
Decision Co-Diﬃe-Hellman. Given g2,g a
2 ∈ G2 and h,h b∈ G1 output yes if a = b and no
otherwise. When the answer is yes we say that ( g2,g a
2,h,h a) is a co-Diﬃe-Hellman tuple.
WhenG1 =G2 andg1 =g2, these problems reduce to the standard CDH and DDH. Next we deﬁne
co-GDH gap groups to be group pairs G1 and G2 on which co-DDH is easy but co-CDH is hard.
Deﬁnition 2.1. Two groups (G1,G 2) are a decision group pair for co-Diﬃe-Hellman if the group
action on G1, the group action on G2, and the map ψ fromG2 toG1 can be computed in one time
unit, and Decision co-Diﬃe-Hellman on ( G1,G 2) can be solved in one time unit.
Deﬁnition 2.2. The advantage of an algorithm A in solving the Computational co-Diﬃe-Hellman
problem in groups G1 and G2 is
Adv co-CDH A
def= Pr
[
A(g2,g a
2,h ) = ha :a R← Zp,h R←G1
]
.
The probability is taken over the choice of a, h, andA’s coin tosses. An algorithm A (t,ϵ )-breaks
Computational co-Diﬃe-Hellman on G1 and G2 ifA runs in time at most t, and Adv co-CDH A is
at least ϵ. Two Groups ( G1,G 2) are a ( t,ϵ )-co-GDH group pair if they are a decision group pair
for co-Diﬃe-Hellman and no algorithm ( t,ϵ )-breaks Computational co-Diﬃe-Hellman on them.
3

2.1 Bilinear Maps
LetG1 andG2 be two groups as above, with an additional group GT such that|G1| =|G2| =|GT|.
A bilinear map is a map e :G1×G2→GT with the following properties:
1. Bilinear: for all u∈G1,v∈G2 and a,b∈ Z, e(ua,v b) = e(u,v )ab.
2. Non-degenerate: e(g1,g 2)⁄= 1.
These properties imply two more: for any u1,u 2∈G1,v ∈G2, e(u1u2,v ) = e(u1,v )·e(u2,v ); and
for any u,v∈G2, e(ψ(u),v ) = e(ψ(v),u ).
Deﬁnition 2.3. Two groups (G1,G 2) are a bilinear group pair if the group action on either can be
computed in one time unit, the map ψ fromG2 toG1 can be computed in one time unit, a bilinear
map e :G1×G2→GT exists, and e is computable in one time unit.
Deﬁnition 2.4. Two groups (G1,G 2) are a ( t,ϵ )-bilinear group pair for co-Diﬃe-Hellman if they
are a bilinear group pair and no algorithm ( t,ϵ )-breaks Computational co-Diﬃe-Hellman on them.
Joux and Nguyen [20] showed that an eﬃciently-computable bilinear map e provides an algo-
rithm for solving the decision co-Diﬃe-Hellman problem. For a tuple ( g2,g a
2,h,h b) we have
a =b modp ⇐⇒ e(h,g a
2 ) = e(hb,g 2) .
Consequently, if two groups (G1,G 2) are a (t,ϵ )-bilinear group pair for co-Diﬃe-Hellman, then they
are also a ( t/2,ϵ )-co-GDH group pair. The converse is probably not true.
2.2 The Co-GDH Signature Scheme
We review the signature scheme of [7], which can be based on any gap group. It comprises three
algorithms, KeyGen, Sign, and Verify, and uses a full-domain hash function H :{0, 1}∗→ G1,
viewed as a random oracle [3].
Key Generation. Pick random x R← Zp, and compute v← gx
2 . The public key is v∈ G2. The
private key is x∈ Zp.
Signing. Given a private key x and a message M∈{ 0, 1}∗, compute h←H(M ), where h∈G1,
and σ←hx. The signature is σ∈G1.
V eriﬁcation. Given a public key v, a message M , and a signature σ, compute h← H(M ) and
verify that (g2,v,h,σ ) is a valid co-Diﬃe-Hellman tuple.
A co-GDH signature is a single element of G1. On certain elliptic curves these signatures are very
short: they are half the size of DSA signatures with similar security. Theorem 1 of [7] proves the
existential unforgeability of the scheme under a chosen message attack [16] in the random oracle
model assuming (G1,G 2) is a co-gap group pair for Diﬃe-Hellman.
4

3 Aggregate Signatures
We deﬁne aggregate signatures and describe an aggregate signature scheme based on co-GDH
signatures. Unlike the co-GDH scheme, aggregate signatures require the existence of a bilinear
map. We deﬁne security models and provide proofs of security for aggregate signatures.
Consider a set U of users. Each user u∈ U has a signing keypair ( PKu, SKu). We wish to
aggregate the signatures of some subset U⊆ U. Each user u∈ U produces a signature σu on a
message Mu of her choice. These signatures are then combined into a single aggregate σ by an
aggregating party. The aggregating party, who can be diﬀerent from and untrusted by the users
inU , has access to the users’ public keys, to the messages, and to the signatures on them, but not
to any private keys. The result of this aggregation is an aggregate signature σ whose length is the
same as that of any of the individual signatures. This aggregate has the property that a veriﬁer
givenσ along with the identities of the parties involved and their respective messages is convinced
that each user signed her respective message.
3.1 Bilinear Aggregate Signatures
We describe a bilinear aggregate signature scheme based on the co-GDH scheme presented above.
Individual signatures in the aggregate signature scheme are created and veriﬁed precisely as are
signatures in the co-GDH scheme (Sect. 2.2). Aggregate veriﬁcation makes use of a bilinear map
on G1 and G2.
The aggregate signature scheme allows the creation of signatures on arbitrary distinct messages
Mi∈{ 0, 1}∗. An individual signature σi is an element of G1. The base groups G1 and G2, their
respective generators g1 and g2, the computable isomorphism ψ from G2 to G1, and the bilinear
map e :G1×G2→GT , with target group GT , are system parameters.
The scheme comprises ﬁve algorithms: KeyGen, Sign, Verify, Aggregate, and AggregateVerify.
The ﬁrst three are as in ordinary signature schemes; the last two provide the aggregation capability.
The scheme employs a full-domain hash function H :{0, 1}∗→G1, viewed as a random oracle.
Key Generation. For a particular user, pick random x R← Zp, and compute v←gx
2 . The user’s
public key is v∈G2. The user’s private key is x∈ Zp.
Signing. For a particular user, given the private key x and a message M ∈ {0, 1}∗, compute
h←H(M ), where h∈G1, and σ←hx. The signature is σ∈G1.
V eriﬁcation. Given a user’s public key v, a message M , and a signature σ, compute h←H(M );
accept if e(σ,g 2) = e(h,v ) holds.
Aggregation. For the aggregating subset of users U⊆ U, assign to each user an index i, ranging
from 1 to k =|U|. Each user ui∈U provides a signature σi∈G1 on a message Mi∈{ 0, 1}∗
of his choice. The messages Mi must all be distinct. Compute σ← ∏k
i=1σi. The aggregate
signature is σ∈G1.
Aggregate V eriﬁcation. We are given an aggregate signature σ∈G1 for an aggregating subset
of users U , indexed as before, and are given the original messages Mi∈{ 0, 1}∗ and public
keysvi∈G2 for all users ui∈U . To verify the aggregate signature σ,
1. ensure that the messages Mi are all distinct, and reject otherwise; and
5

2. compute hi←H(Mi) for 1 ≤i≤k =|U|, and accept if e(σ,g 2) = ∏k
i=1e(hi,v i) holds.
A bilinear aggregate signature, like a co-GDH signature, is a single element of G1. Note that
aggregation can be done incrementally.
The intuition behind bilinear aggregate signatures is as follows. Each user ui has a private
keyxi∈ Zp and a public key vi =gxi
2 . User ui’s signature, if correctly formed, is σi =hxi
i , where hi
is the hash of the user’s chosen message, Mi. The aggregate signature σ is thusσ = ∏
iσi = ∏
ihxi
i .
Using the properties of the bilinear map, the left-hand side of the veriﬁcation equation expands:
e(σ,g 2) = e
(∏
i
hxi
i ,g 2
)
=
∏
i
e(hi,g 2)xi =
∏
i
e(hi,g xi
2 ) =
∏
i
e(hi,v i) ,
which is the right-hand side, as required. It remains to prove the security of the scheme.
3.2 Aggregate Signature Security
Informally, the security of aggregate signature schemes is equivalent to the nonexistence of an adver-
sary capable, within the conﬁnes of a certain game, of existentially forging an aggregate signature.
Existential forgery here means that the adversary attempts to forge an aggregate signature, on
messages of his choice, by some set of users.
We formalize this intuition as the aggregate chosen-key security model. In this model, the
adversaryA is given a single public key. His goal is the existential forgery of an aggregate signature.
We give the adversary power to choose all public keys except the challenge public key. The adversary
is also given access to a signing oracle on the challenge key. His advantage, Adv AggSigA, is deﬁned
to be his probability of success in the following game.
Setup. The aggregate forger A is provided with a public key PK1, generated at random.
Queries. Proceeding adaptively,A requests signatures with PK1 on messages of his choice.
Response. Finally,A outputs k− 1 additional public keys PK2,..., PKk. Here k is at
mostN , a game parameter. These keys, along with the initial key PK1, will be included
inA’s forged aggregate. A also outputs messages M1,...,M k; and, ﬁnally, an aggregate
signature σ by the k users, each on his corresponding message.
The forger wins if the aggregate signature σ is a valid aggregate on messages M1,...,M k
under keys PK1,..., PKk, and σ is nontrivial, i.e., A did not request a signature on M1
under PK1. The probability is over the coin tosses of the key-generation algorithm and of A.
Deﬁnition 3.1. An aggregate forgerA (t,q H,q S,N,ϵ )-breaks anN -user aggregate signature scheme
in the aggregate chosen-key model if: A runs in time at most t;A makes at most qH queries to the
hash function and at most qS queries to the signing oracle; Adv AggSigA is at least ϵ; and the forged
aggregate signature is by at most N users. An aggregate signature scheme is ( t,q H,q S,N,ϵ )-secure
against existential forgery in the aggregate chosen-key model if no forger ( t,q H,q S,N,ϵ )-breaks it.
A potential attack on aggregate signatures. The adversary’s ability in the chosen-key model
to generate keys suggests the following attack, previously considered in the context of multisigna-
tures [23, 4]. Alice publishes her public key vA. Bob generates a private key x′
B and a public
keyv′
B =g
x′
B
2 , but publishes as his public key vB =v′
B/vA, a value whose discrete log he does not
6

know. Then H(M )x′
B veriﬁes as an aggregate signature on M by both Alice and Bob. Note that
in this forgery Alice and Bob both sign the same message M .
One countermeasure is to require the adversary to prove knowledge of the discrete logarithms
(to base g2) of his published public keys. For example, Boldyreva, in her multisignature scheme [4],
requires, in eﬀect, that the adversary disclose the corresponding private keys x2,...,x k. Micali et
al. [23] discuss a series of more sophisticated approaches based on zero-knowledge proofs, again with
the eﬀect that the adversary is constrained in his key selection. These defenses apply equally well
to our aggregate signature scheme. For aggregate signatures, though, there is a simpler defense.
A simple defense for aggregate signatures. In the context of aggregate signatures we can
defend against the attack above by simply requiring that an aggregate signature is valid only if
it is an aggregation of signatures on distinct messages. This restriction, codiﬁed in Step 1 of
AggregateVerify, suﬃces to prove the security of the bilinear aggregate signature scheme in the
chosen-key model. There is no need for zero-knowledge proofs or the disclosure of private keys.
The requirement that all messages in an aggregate be distinct is naturally satisﬁed for the
applications to certiﬁcate chains and SBGP we have in mind. Even in more general environments
it is easy to ensure that all messages are distinct: The signer simply prepends her public key to
every message she signs prior to the application of the hash function H. The implicit preﬁx need
not be transmitted with the signature, so signature and message length is unaﬀected.
The next theorem shows that this simple constraint is in fact suﬃcient for proving security in
the chosen-key model.
Theorem 3.2. Let (G1,G 2) be a (t′,ϵ ′)-bilinear group pair for co-Diﬃe-Hellman, with each group
of order p, with respective generators g1 andg2, with an isomorphism ψ computable fromG2 toG1,
and with a bilinear map e : G1×G2 → GT . Then the bilinear aggregate signature scheme on
(G1,G 2) is (t,q H,q S,N,ϵ )-secure against existential forgery in the aggregate chosen-key model for
all t and ϵ satisfying
ϵ≥e(qS +N )·ϵ′ and t≤t′−cG1(qH + 2qS +N + 4)− (N + 1) ,
wheree is the base of natural logarithms, and exponentiation and inversion on G1 take time cG1.
Proof. SupposeA is a forger algorithm that ( t,q S,q H,N,ϵ )-breaks the signature scheme. We show
how to construct a t′-time algorithmC that solves co-CDH in ( G1,G 2) with probability at least ϵ′.
This will contradict the fact that ( G1,G 2) are a ( t′,ϵ ′)-co-GDH group pair.
Letg2 be a generator of G2. Algorithm C is given g2,u∈G2 andh∈G1, where u =ga
2 . Its goal
is to output ha∈G1. Algorithm C simulates the challenger and interacts with forger A as follows.
Setup. AlgorithmC starts by givingA the generator g2 and the public key v1 =u·gr
2∈G2, where
r is random in Zp.
Hash Queries. At any time algorithm A can query the random oracle H. To respond to these
queries,C maintains a list of tuples ⟨M (i),w (i),b (i),c (i)⟩ as explained below. We refer to
this list as the H-list. The list is initially empty. When A queries the oracle H at a point
M∈{ 0, 1}∗, algorithmC responds as follows:
1. If the query M already appears on the H-list in some tuple ⟨M,w,b,c ⟩ then algorithmC
responds with H(M ) = w∈G1.
7

2. Otherwise, C generates a random coin c∈{ 0, 1} so that Pr[c = 0] = 1/(qS +N ).
3. Algorithm C picks a random b∈ Zp. If c = 0 holds, C computes w←h·ψ(g2)b∈G1. If
c = 1 holds, C computes w←ψ(g2)b∈G1.
4. Algorithm C adds the tuple ⟨M,w,b,c ⟩ to the H-list and responds to A as H(M ) = w.
Note that, either way, w is uniform in G1 and is independent of A’s current view as required.
Signature queries. AlgorithmA requests a signature on some message M under the challenge
keyv1. Algorithm C responds to this query as follows:
1. Algorithm C runs the above algorithm for responding to H-queries on M , obtaining the
corresponding tuple ⟨M,w,b,c ⟩ on the H-list. If c = 0 holds then C reports failure and
terminates.
2. We know that c = 1 holds and hence w = ψ(g2)b∈ G1. Let σ = ψ(u)b·ψ(g2)rb∈ G1.
Observe that σ =wa+r and therefore σ is a valid signature on M under the public key
v1 =u·gr
2 =ga+r
2 . Algorithm C givesσ to algorithmA.
Output. Finally,A halts. It either concedes failure, in which case so does C, or it returns a
value k (where k≤ N ), k− 1 public keys v2,...,v k ∈ G2, k messages M1,...M k, and a
forged aggregate signature σ∈ G1. The messages Mi must all be distinct, and A must not
have requested a signature on M1. AlgorithmC runs its hash algorithm at each Mi, 1≤i≤k,
obtaining the k corresponding tuples⟨Mi,w i,b i,c i⟩ on the H-list.
AlgorithmC now proceeds only if c1 = 0 and, for 2 ≤ i≤ k, ci = 1; otherwise C declares
failure and halts. Since c1 = 0, it follows that w1 = h·ψ(g2)b1. For i >1, since ci = 1, it
follows that wi =ψ(g2)bi. The aggregate signature σ must satisfy the aggregate veriﬁcation
equation, e(σ,g 2) = ∏k
i=1e(wi,v i). For each i> 1,C sets σi←ψ(vi)bi. Then, for i> 1,
e(σi,g 2) = e(ψ(vi)bi,g 2) = e(ψ(vi),g 2)bi =e(ψ(g2),v i)bi =e(ψ(g2)bi,v i) = e(wi,v i) ,
Soσi is a valid signature on Mi (whose hash is wi) by the key whose public component is vi.
NowC constructs a value σ1: σ1←σ· (∏k
i=2σi)
−1
. Then
e(σ1,g 2) = e(σ,g 2)·
k∏
i=2
e(σi,g 2)−1 =
k∏
i=1
e(wi,v i)·
k∏
i=2
e(wi,v i)−1 =e(w1,v 1) .
Thusσ1 is a valid co-GDH signature by key v1 =u·gr
2 =ga+r
2 on a message whose hash is w1 =
h·ψ(g2)b1. ThenC calculates and outputs the required ha asha←σ1·(ψ(u)b1·hr·ψ(g2)rb1)−1.
This completes the description of algorithm C. It remains to show that C solves the given instance
of the co-CDH problem in ( G1,G 2) with probability at least ϵ′. To do so, we analyze the three
events needed for C to succeed:
E1: C does not abort as a result of any of A’s signature queries.
E2: A generates a valid, nontrivial aggregate signature forgery ( k,v 2,...,v k,M 1,...,M k,σ ).
E3: EventE2 occurs, and, in addition, c1 = 0, and, for 2 ≤i≤k, ci = 1, where for each i ci is the
c-component of the tuple containing Mi on the H-list.
8

C succeeds if all of these events happen. The probability Pr[ E1∧E 3] decomposes as
Pr[E1∧E 3] = Pr[E1]· Pr[E2|E 1]· Pr[E3|E 1∧E 2]. (1)
The following claims give a lower bound for each of these terms.
Claim 3.3. The probability that algorithm C does not abort as a result of A’s aggregate signature
queries is at least (1− 1/(qS +N ))qS . Hence, Pr[E1]≥ (1− 1/(qS +N ))qS .
Proof. Without loss of generality we assume that A does not ask for the signature of the same
message twice. We prove by induction that after A makesl signature queries the probability that C
does not abort is at least (1 −1/(qS +N ))l. The claim is trivially true for l = 0. Let M (l) beA’sl’th
signature query and let ⟨M (l),w (l),b (l),c (l)⟩ be the corresponding tuple on the H-list. Then, prior
toA’s issuing the query, the bit c(l) is independent ofA’s view — the only value that could be given
toA that depends on c(l) isH(M (l)), but the distribution of H(M (l)) is the same whether c(l) = 0
or c(l) = 1. Therefore, the probability that this query causes C to abort is at most 1 /(qS +N ).
Using the inductive hypothesis and the independence of c(l), the probability that C does not abort
after this query is at least (1 − 1/(qS +N ))l. This proves the inductive claim. Since A makes at
most qS signature queries the probability that C does not abort as a result of all signature queries
is at least (1 − 1/(qS +N ))qS .
Claim 3.4. If algorithm C does not abort as a result of A’s queries then algorithm A’s view is
identical to its view in the real attack. Hence, Pr[E2|E 1]≥ϵ.
Proof. The public key given to A is from the same distribution as public keys produced by algo-
rithm KeyGen. Responses to hash queries are as in the real attack since each response is uniformly
and independently distributed in G1. Since C did not abort as a result of A’s signature queries, all
its responses to those queries are valid. Therefore A will produce a valid and nontrivial aggregate
signature forgery with probability at least ϵ. Hence Pr[E2|E 1]≥ϵ.
Claim 3.5. The probability that algorithm C does not abort after A outputs a valid and nontrivial
forgery is at least (1− 1/(qS +N ))N −1· 1/(qS +N ).
Hence, Pr[E3|E 1∧E 2]≥ (1− 1/(qS +N ))N −1· 1/(qS +N ).
Proof. EventsE1 andE2 have occurred, and A has generated some valid and nontrivial forgery
(k,v 2,...,v k,M 1,...,M k,σ ). For each i, 1 ≤ i≤ k, let ⟨Mi,w i,b i,c i⟩ be the tuple corresponding
toMi on the H-list. Algorithm C will abort unless A generates a forgery such that c1 = 0 and, for
i> 1, ci = 1.
Since all the messages M1,M 2,...,M k are distinct, the values c1,c 2,...,c k are all independent
of each other; as before, H(Mi) = wi is independent of ci for each i.
Since its forgery is nontrivial, A cannot have asked for a signature on M1 under key v1. It
can thus have no information about the value of c1; in the forged aggregate, c1 = 0 occurs with
probability 1/(qS +N ). For each i> 1,A either asked for a signature under key v1 onMi, in which
caseci = 1 with probability 1, or it didn’t, and ci = 1 with probability 1 − 1/(qS +N ). Regardless,
the probability thatci = 1 for all i, 2≤i≤k, is at least (1−1/(qS +N ))k−1≥ (1−1/(qS +N ))N −1.
Therefore Pr[E3|E 1∧E 2]≥ (1− 1/(qS +N ))N −1· 1/(qS +N ), as required.
9

To complete the proof of Theorem 3.2, we use the bounds from the claims above in equation (1).
AlgorithmC produces the correct answer with probability at least
(
1− 1
qS +N
)qS +N −1
· 1
qS +N·ϵ≥ ϵ/e
qS +N≥ϵ′ ,
as required.
AlgorithmC’s running time is the same as A’s running time plus the time is takes to respond to
(qH +qS) hash queries and qS signature queries, and the time to transform A’s ﬁnal forgery into the
co-CDH solution. Each query requires an exponentiation in G1. The output phase requires at most
N additional hash computations, two inversions, two exponentiations, and N + 1 multiplications.
We assume that exponentiation and inversion in G1 take time cG1. Hence, the total running time
is at most t +cG1(qH + 2qS +N + 4) + N + 1 ≤ t′ as required. This completes the proof of
Theorem 3.2.
Notes on the proof. If hash queries include the intended public key as well as the message — the
countermeasure suggested above — then the challenger can set c← 1 for any hash query H(M,v )
where v isn’t v1, the challenge key. Then all keys except the challenge key become irrelevant, and
the reduction is precisely like that for the BLS signature scheme [7]; in particular, the multiplicative
loss of security no longer depends on n.
One can also allow a single key to be responsible for several messages in an aggregate signature,
and thus appear with multiplicity greater than 1 in the list v1,...,v k, provided that no two keys
sign the same message (more speciﬁcally, that the challenge key and some other key do not each
sign a message with the same hash).
Aggregate veriﬁcation time. Letσ be an aggregate of the n signaturesσ1,...,σ n. The time to
verify the aggregate signature σ is linear in n. In the special case when all n signatures are issued
by the same public key v, aggregate veriﬁcation is faster. One need only verify that e(σ,g 2) =
e(v, ∏n
i=1H(Mi)) holds, where M1,...,M n are the signed messages.
4 V eriﬁably Encrypted Signatures
Next, we show an application of aggregate signatures to veriﬁably encrypted signatures. Veriﬁably
encrypted signatures are used in applications such as online contract signing [1, 2]. Suppose Alice
wants to show Bob that she has signed a message, but does not want Bob to possess her signature
of that message. (Alice will give her signature to Bob only when a certain event has occurred, e.g.,
Bob has given Alice his signature on the same message.) Alice can achieve this by encrypting her
signature using the public key of a trusted third party, and sending this to Bob along with a proof
that she has given him a valid encryption of her signature. Bob can verify that Alice has signed the
message, but cannot deduce any information about her signature. Later in the protocol, if Alice is
unable or unwilling to reveal her signature, Bob can ask the third party to reveal Alice’s signature.
We note that the resulting contract signing protocol is not abuse-free in the sense of [12].
We show that a variant of the bilinear aggregate signature scheme allows the creation of very
eﬃcient veriﬁably encrypted signatures.
10

4.1 V eriﬁably Encrypted Signature Security
A veriﬁably encrypted signature scheme comprises seven algorithms. Three, KeyGen, Sign, and
Verify, are analogous to those in ordinary signature schemes. The others, AdjKeyGen, VESigCreate,
VESigVerify, and Adjudicate, provide the veriﬁably encrypted signature capability. The algorithms
are described below. We refer to the trusted third party as the adjudicator.
Key Generation, Signing, V eriﬁcation. As in standard signature schemes.
Adjudicator Key . Generate a public-private key pair ( APK, ASK) for the adjudicator.
VESig Creation. Given a private key SK, a message M , and an adjudicator’s public key APK,
compute (probabilistically) a veriﬁably encrypted signature ω on M .
VESig V eriﬁcation. Given a public key PK, a message M , an adjudicator’s public key APK,
and a veriﬁably encrypted signature ω, verify that ω is a valid veriﬁably encrypted signature
on M under key PK.
Adjudication. Given an adjudicator’s keypair ( APK, ASK), a certiﬁed public key PK, and a
veriﬁably encrypted signature ω on some message M , extract and output σ, an ordinary
signature on M under key PK.
Besides the ordinary notions of signature security in the signature component, we require three
security properties of veriﬁably encrypted signatures: validity, unforgeability, and opacity. We
describe these properties below, in the single-user setting.
Validity requires that veriﬁably encrypted signatures verify, and that adjudicated veriﬁably en-
crypted signatures verify as ordinary signatures, i.e., that VESigVerify(M, VESigCreate(M )) and
Verify(M, Adjudicate(M, VESigCreate(M ))) accept for all M and for all properly-generated key-
pairs and adjudicator keypairs. (The keys provided to the algorithms are here elided for brevity.)
Unforgeability requires that it be diﬃcult to forge a valid veriﬁably encrypted signature. The
advantage in existentially forging a veriﬁably encrypted signature of an algorithm F is
Adv VSigFF
def= Pr


VESigVerify(PK, APK,M,ω ) = valid :
(PK, SK) R← KeyGen,
(APK, ASK) R← AdjKeyGen,
(M,ω ) R←F S,A(PK, APK)


.
The probability is taken over the coin tosses of the key-generation algorithms, of the oracles,
and of the forger. The forger is given access to a veriﬁably-encrypted–signature creation oracle
S = VESigCreate(SK, APK,·) and an adjudication oracle A = Adjudicate(ASK, PK,·,·), along
with a hash oracle. The forger F is additionally constrained in that its forgery on M must be
nontrivial:F must not previously have queried either oracle at M . Note that an ordinary signing
oracle is not provided; it can be simulated by a call to S followed by a call to A.
Deﬁnition 4.1. A veriﬁably encrypted signature forger F (t,q H,q S,q A,ϵ )-forges a veriﬁably en-
crypted signature if: Algorithm F runs in time at most t;F makes at most qH queries to the hash
function, at most qS queries to the veriﬁably-encrypted–signature creation oracle S, at most qA
queries to the adjudication oracle A; and Adv VSigFF is at least ϵ. A veriﬁably encrypted signature
scheme is (t,q H,q S,q A,ϵ )-secure against existential forgery if no forger ( t,q H,q S,q A,ϵ )-breaks it.
11

Opacity requires that it be diﬃcult, given a veriﬁably encrypted signature, to extract an ordinary
signature on the same message. The advantage in extracting a veriﬁably encrypted signature of
an algorithm E, again given access to a veriﬁably-encrypted–signature creation oracle S and an
adjudication oracle A, along with a hash oracle, is
Adv VSigEE
def= Pr


Verify(PK,M,σ ) = valid :
(PK, SK) R← KeyGen,
(APK, ASK) R← AdjKeyGen,
(M,σ ) R←E S,A(PK, APK)


.
The probability is taken over the coin tosses of the key-generation algorithms, of the oracles, and of
the forger. The extraction must be nontrivial: the adversary must not have queried the adjudication
oracleA atM . (It is allowed, however, to query S atM .) Veriﬁably encrypted signature extraction
is clearly no more diﬃcult than forgery in the underlying signature scheme.
Deﬁnition 4.2. An algorithmE (t,q H,q S,q A,ϵ )-extracts a veriﬁably encrypted signature if E runs
in time at most t, makes at most qH queries to the hash function, at most qS queries to the
veriﬁably-encrypted–signature creation oracle S, at most qA queries to the adjudication oracle, and
Adv VSigEE is at least ϵ. A veriﬁably encrypted signature scheme is ( t,q H,q S,q A,ϵ )-secure against
extraction if no algorithm ( t,q H,q S,q A,ϵ )-extracts it.
4.2 Aggregate Extraction
Our veriﬁably encrypted signature scheme depends on the assumption that given an aggregate
signature of k signatures it is diﬃcult to extract the individual signatures.
Consider the bilinear aggregate signature scheme on a group pair ( G1,G 2). We posit that it is
diﬃcult to recover the individual signatures σi given their aggregate σ, the public keys, and the
message hashes. In fact, we posit that it is diﬃcult to recover an aggregate σ′ of any proper subset
of the signatures. This we term the k-element aggregate extraction problem.
We formalize this assumption as follows. Let ( G1,G 2) be a bilinear group pair for co-Diﬃe-
Hellman, each of order p, with respective generators g1 and g2, a computable isomorphism ψ :
G2→G1 such that g1 =ψ(g2), and a computable bilinear map e :G1×G2→GT .
Consider a k-user aggregate in this setting. Each user has a private key xi∈ Zp and a public
key vi = gxi
2 ∈ G2. Each user selects a distinct message Mi∈{ 0, 1}∗ whose hash is hi∈ G1 and
creates a signature σi =hxi
i ∈G1. Finally, the signatures are aggregated, yielding σ = ∏
iσi∈G1.
LetI be the set{1,...,k }. Each public key vi can be expressed as gxi
2 , each hash hi asgyi
1 , each
signature σi as gxiyi
1 , and the aggregate signature σ as gz
1, where z = ∑
i∈Ixiyi. The advantage of
an algorithmE in extracting a sub-aggregate from a k-element aggregate is
Advk-ExtrE
def= Pr


(∅⁄ =I ′ ⊊I)∧ (σ′ =g
(P
i∈I′ xiyi)
1 ) :
x1,...,x k,y 1,...,y k
R← Zp, σ←g
(P
i∈I xiyi)
1 ,
(σ′,I ′) R←E
(
gx1
2 ,...,g xk
2 ,g y1
1 ,...,g yk
1 ,σ
)

 .
The probability is taken over the choices of all xi and yi, and the coin tosses of E.
Deﬁnition 4.3. An algorithm E (t,k,ϵ )-extracts a sub-aggregate from an k-element bilinear ag-
gregate signature if E runs in time at most t and Advk-ExtrE is at least ϵ. An instantiation of the
12

bilinear aggregate signature scheme is ( t,k,ϵ )-secure against aggregate extraction if no algorithm
(t,k,ϵ )-extracts it.
We will be particularly concerned with the case k = 2. In this case, the aggregate extraction
problem reduces to this one: given ga
2 , gb
2, gu
1 , gv
1, and gau+bv
1 , calculate gau
1 . (If the extractor
outputs gbv
1 instead, we may recover gau
1 as gau+bv
1 /gbv
1 .)
Coron and Naccache have shown that the k-element aggregate extraction assumption is equiv-
alent to co-CDH [9].
4.3 V eriﬁably Encrypted Signatures via Aggregation
We motivate our construction for veriﬁably encrypted signatures by considering aggregate signa-
tures as a launching point. An aggregate signature scheme can give rise to a veriﬁably encrypted
signature scheme if it is diﬃcult to extract individual signatures from an aggregate, but easy to
forge existentially under the adjudicator’s key. Consider the following:
1. Alice wishes to create a veriﬁably encrypted signature, which Bob will verify; Carol is the ad-
judicator. Alice and Carol’s keys are both generated under the underlying signature scheme’s
key-generation algorithm.
2. Alice creates a signature σ on M under her public key. She forges a signature σ′ on some
random message M ′ under Carol’s public key. She then combines σ and σ′, obtaining an
aggregate ω. The veriﬁably encrypted signature is the pair ( ω,M ′).
3. Bob validates Alice’s veriﬁably encrypted signature ( ω,M ′) on M by checking that ω is a
valid aggregate signature by Alice on M and by Carol on M ′.
4. Carol adjudicates, given a veriﬁably encrypted signature ( ω,M ′) onM by Alice, by computing
a signature σ′ on M ′ under her key, and removing σ′ from the aggregate; what remains is
Alice’s ordinary signature σ.
In the bilinear aggregate signature scheme, it is diﬃcult to extract individual signatures, under
the aggregate extraction assumption. Moreover, existential forgery is easy when the random oracle
hash function is set aside: Given a public key v∈ G2 and r∈ Zp, ψ(v)r is a valid signature on a
message whose hash is ψ(g2)r =gr
1. Below, we describe formally and give a security proof for the
veriﬁably encrypted signature scheme obtained in this way.
4.4 The Bilinear Veriﬁably-Encrypted Signature Scheme
The bilinear veriﬁably encrypted signature scheme is built on the bilinear aggregate signature
scheme of the previous section. It shares the key-generation algorithm with the underlying aggregate
scheme. Moreover, the adjudicator’s public and private information is simply an aggregate-signature
keypair. The scheme comprises the seven algorithms described below:
Key Generation. KeyGen and AdjKeyGen are the same as KeyGen in the co-GDH signature
scheme.
Signing, V eriﬁcation. Sign and Verify are the same as in the co-GDH signature scheme.
13

VESig Creation. Given a private key x∈ Zp a message M∈{ 0, 1}∗, and an adjudicator’s public
key v′∈G2, compute h←H(M ), where h∈G1, and σ←hx. Select r at random from Zp
and set µ← ψ(g2)r and σ′← ψ(v′)r. Aggregate σ and σ′ as ω← σσ′∈ G1. The veriﬁably
encrypted signature is the pair ( ω,µ ). (This can also be viewed as ElGamal encryption of σ
under the adjudicator’s key.)
VESig V eriﬁcation. Given a public key v, a message M , an adjudicator’s public key v′, and a
veriﬁably encrypted signature ( ω,µ ), set h← H(M ); accept if e(ω,g 2) = e(h,v )·e(µ,v ′)
holds.
Adjudication. Given an adjudicator’s public key v′ and corresponding private key x′ ∈ Zp, a
certiﬁed public key v, and a veriﬁably encrypted signature ( ω,µ ) on some message M , ensure
that the veriﬁably encrypted signature is valid; then output σ =ω/µx′
.
Potential Attacks. If the adjudicator does not ﬁrst validate a purported veriﬁably encrypted
signature, a malicious user can trick him into signing arbitrary messages under his adjudication key.
Similarly, the adjudicator should only adjudicate for certiﬁed public keys v; we assume that the CA,
in issuing a certiﬁcate on a public key, veriﬁes that the user knows the corresponding private key.
Certiﬁcation is necessary to prevent an attack devised by Hess [17] that arises if the adjudicator
is willing to open signatures encrypted under keys generated by the attacker. In this attack, the
adversary obtains from the signing oracle a veriﬁably encrypted signature ( ω,µ ) under the challenge
key v. He computes from it ( ωr,µ r) for some r, which is a veriﬁably encrypted signature on the
same message under the related key vr. He then queries the adjudication oracle and obtains the
underlying signature σr, from which he can compute σ. Note that the adversary does not know the
private key corresponding to vr, and that the adjudication oracle must be willing to answer queries
for keys other than the challenge key v.
It is easy to see that validity holds. A veriﬁably encrypted signature correctly validates under
VESigVerify, which is simply the aggregate signature veriﬁcation algorithm. Moreover, for any valid
veriﬁably encrypted signature, e(ω/µx′
,g 2) = e(ω,g 2)·e(µ,g 2)−x′
= e(h,v )·e(µ,v ′)·e(µ,v ′)−1 =
e(h,v ), so the output of Adjudicate is a valid signature on message M under the key v.
The next two theorems prove the unforgeability and opacity of the scheme.
Theorem 4.4. LetG1 and G2 be cyclic groups of prime order p, with respective generators g1 and
g2, with a computable bilinear map e :G1×G2→GT . Suppose that the co-GDH signature scheme
is (t′,q ′
H,q ′
S,ϵ ′)-secure against existential forgery on (G1,G 2). Then the bilinear veriﬁably encrypted
signature scheme is (t,q H,q S,q A,ϵ )-secure against existential forgery on (G1,G 2), for all qH≤q′
H,
qS≤q′
S, ϵ≥ϵ′, and all t satisfying t≤t′− 2cG1(qS +qA + 1) , where exponentiation and inversion
on G1 take time cG1.
Proof. Given a veriﬁably-encrypted-signature forger algorithmV, we construct a forger algorithmF
for the underlying co-GDH signature scheme.
We assume thatV is well-behaved in the sense that it always requests the hash of a message M
before it requests a veriﬁably encrypted signature or an adjudication involving M , and that it
never requests adjudication on a message M on which it had not previously asked for a veriﬁably
encrypted signature. It is trivial to modify any forger algorithm V to have the ﬁrst property. The
second property is reasonable since the input to the adjudication oracle in this case would be a
nontrivial veriﬁably encrypted signature forgery; V can be modiﬁed simply to output it and halt.
14

The co-GDH forger F is given a public key v, and has access to a signing oracle for v and a
hash oracle. It simulates the challenger and runs interacts with V as follows.
Setup. AlgorithmF generates a key, ( x′,v ′) R← KeyGen, which serves as the adjudicator’s key.
NowF runsV, providing as input the public keys v and v′.
Hash Queries. AlgorithmV requests a hash on some string M . AlgorithmF makes a query on M
to its own hash oracle, receiving some value h∈G1, with which it responds to V’s query.
V erSig Creation Queries. AlgorithmV requests a signature on some string M . (It will have
already queried the hash oracle at M .) F queries its signing oracle (for v) at M , obtaining
σ∈G1. It then selects r at random from Zp, and returns to V the pair (σ·ψ(v′)r,ψ (g2)r).
Adjudication Queries. AlgorithmV requests adjudication for ( ω,µ ), a veriﬁably encrypted sig-
nature on a message M under key v and adjudicator key v′. Algorithm F checks that the
veriﬁably encrypted signature is valid, then returns ω/µx′
.
Output. Finally,V halts, either declaring failure, in which case F, too, declares failure and halts,
or providing a valid and nontrivial veriﬁably encrypted signature ( ω∗,µ ∗) on a message M ∗.
F sets σ∗←ω∗/(µ∗)x′
. We thus have
e(σ∗,g 2) = e(ω∗/(µ∗)x′
,g 2) = e(ω∗,g 2)
/
e(µ∗,g x′
2 )
=e(H(M ∗),v )·e(µ∗,v ′)
/
e(µ∗,v ′) = e(H(M ∗),v ) ,
so σ∗is a valid co-GDH signature on M ∗ under key v.
(In the second line, we use the fact that ( ω∗,µ ∗) is a valid veriﬁably encrypted signature,
so the veriﬁcation equation e(ω∗,g 2) = e(H(M ∗),v )·e(µ∗,v ′) holds.) Since the forgery is
nontrivial , V must not have queried the veriﬁably encrypted signature oracle at M ∗, from
which it follows that F did not query its signing oracle at M ∗. Thus ( M ∗,σ ∗) is a nontrivial
co-GDH forgery; algorithm F outputs it and halts.
It remains only to analyze the success probability and running time of F. Algorithm F succeeds
wheneverV does, that is, with probability at least ϵ.
AlgorithmF’s running time is the same as V’s running time plus the time it takes to respond
to qH hash queries, qS veriﬁably-encrypted signature queries, and qA adjudication queries, and the
time to transform V’s ﬁnal veriﬁably-encrypted signature forgery into a co-GDH signature forgery.
Hash queries impose no overhead. Each veriﬁably-encrypted signature query requires F to perform
two exponentiations in G1. Each adjudication query requires F to perform an exponentiation and
an inversion in G1. The output phase also requires an exponentiation and an inversion. We assume
that exponentiation and inversion in G1 take time cG1. Hence, the total running time is at most
t + 2cG1(qS +qA + 1).
F queries its hash oracle whenever V queries its hash oracle, and its signing oracle whenever V
queries its veriﬁably encrypted signature oracle.
Combining all this, we see that if V (t,q H,q S,q A,ϵ )-forges a bilinear veriﬁably encrypted signa-
ture on (G1,G 2), thenF (t + 2cG1(qS +qA + 1),q H,q S,ϵ )-breaks the co-GDH signature scheme on
(G1,G 2). Conversely, if the co-GDH signature scheme is ( t′,q ′
H,q ′
S,ϵ ′)-secure, then the bilinear ver-
iﬁably encrypted signature scheme is ( t′− 2cG1(qS +qA + 1),q ′
H,q ′
S,q A,ϵ ′)-secure against existential
forgery.
15

Note that the proof above treats the underlying signature scheme as a black box, except for two
properties: (1) that it is possible to encrypt a signature to obtain a veriﬁably encrypted signature,
and (2) that the adjudication procedure transforms all valid veriﬁably encrypted signatures into
valid (unencrypted) signatures — not just those that VESigCreate would output, as required by the
validity property.
Theorem 4.5. LetG1 and G2 be cyclic groups of prime order p, with respective generators g1 and
g2, with a computable isomorphism ψ : G2→ G1 such that ψ(g2) = g1 and a computable bilinear
map e : G1×G2 → GT . Suppose that the bilinear aggregate signature scheme on (G1,G 2) is
(t′, 2,ϵ ′)-secure against aggregate extraction. Then the bilinear veriﬁably encrypted signature scheme
is (t,q H,q S,q A,ϵ )-secure against extraction on (G1,G 2) for all t and ϵ satisfying
ϵ≥e(qA + 1)·ϵ′ and t≤t′−cG1(qH + 4qS + 2qA + 3) ,
wheree is the base of natural logarithms, and exponentiation and inversion on G1 take time cG1.
Proof. Given a veriﬁably-encrypted–signature extractor algorithm V, we construct an aggregate
extractor algorithmA. The extractor A is given values gα
2 andgβ
2 inG2,gγ
1 ,gδ
1, and gαγ+βδ
1 inG1.
It runs V, answering its oracle calls, and uses V’s veriﬁably encrypted signature extraction to
calculate gαγ
1 , the answer to its own extraction challenge.
Letg1 be a generator of G1, andg2 ofG2, such thatψ(g2) = g1. AlgorithmA is givengα
2,g β
2∈G2
and gγ
1,g δ
1,g αγ+βδ
1 ∈G1. Its goal is to output gαγ
1 ∈G1. Algorithm A simulates the challenger and
interacts with veriﬁably-encrypted–signature extractor V as follows.
Setup. AlgorithmA sets v← gα
2 , the signer’s public key, and v′← gβ
2 , the adjudicator’s public
key. It gives v and v′ toV.
Hash Queries. At any time algorithm V can query the random oracle H. To respond to these
queries,A maintains a list of tuples ⟨M (i),w (i),b (i),c (i)⟩ as explained below. We refer to
this list as the H-list. The list is initially empty. When V queries the oracle H at a point
M∈{ 0, 1}∗, algorithmA responds as follows:
1. If the query M already appears on the H-list in some tuple⟨M,w,b,c ⟩ then algorithmA
responds with H(M ) = w∈G1.
2. Otherwise, A generates a random coin c∈{ 0, 1} so that Pr[c = 0] = 1/(qA + 1).
3. Algorithm A picks a random b∈ Zp. If c = 0 holds, A computes w← gγ
1·gb
1∈ G1. If
c = 1 holds, A computes w←gb
1∈G1.
4. Algorithm A adds the tuple ⟨M,w,b,c ⟩ to the H-list and responds to V as H(M ) = w.
V erSig Creation Queries. V requests a veriﬁably-encrypted signature on some string M under
challenge key v and adjudicator key v′. Algorithm A responds to this query as follows:
1. Algorithm A runs the above algorithm for responding to H-queries on M , obtaining the
corresponding tuple⟨M,w,b,c ⟩ on the H-list.
2.A selectsx at random from Zp. If c equals 0,A computes and returns (ω,µ ) = (ψ(gα
2 )b·
gαγ+βδ
1 · ψ(gβ
2 )x,g δ
1· gx
1 ). If c equals 1, A computes and returns ( ω,µ ) = ( ψ(gα
2 )b·
ψ(gβ
2 )x,g x
2 ). It is easy to verify that ( ϵ,µ ) is in either case a correct veriﬁably encrypted
signature on the message with hash w.
16

Adjudication Queries. AlgorithmV requests adjudication for ( ω,µ ), a veriﬁably encrypted sig-
nature on a message M under key v and adjudicator key v′. Algorithm A responds to this
query as follows:
1. Algorithm A runs the above algorithm for responding to H-queries on M , obtaining the
corresponding tuple⟨M,w,b,c ⟩ on the H-list.
2. Algorithm A checks that the veriﬁably encrypted signature is valid. If it is not, A
returns ⋆, a placeholder value.
3. If c equals 0, A declares failure and halts. Otherwise, it computes and returns σ←
ψ(gα
2 )b. It is easy to verify that σ is the correct co-GDH signature under key v on the
message with hash w.
Output. Finally,V halts. It either concedes failure, in which case so does A, or returns a nontrivial
extracted signature σ∗ on some message M ∗. For the extraction to be nontrivial, V must not
have asked for adjudication on a veriﬁably encrypted signature of M ∗. Algorithm A runs its
hash algorithm at M ∗, obtaining the k corresponding tuples⟨M ∗,w ∗,b ∗,c ∗⟩ on the H-list.
A now proceeds only if c∗ = 0; otherwise it declares failure and halts. Since c∗ = 0, it follows
thatw∗ =gγ
1·gb∗
1 . The extracted signature σ∗ must satisfy the co-GDH veriﬁcation equation,
e(σ∗,g 2) = e(h∗,v ).A sets σ←σ∗/ψ(v)b∗
. Then
e(σ,g 2) = e(σ∗,g 2)·e(ψ(v),g 2)−b∗
=e(w∗,v )·e(ψ(g2),v )−b∗
=e(gγ
1,v )·e(g1,v )b∗
·e(g1,v )−b∗
=e(gγ
1,g α
2 ).
Where in the last equality we substitute v = gα
2 . Thus ( g2,g α
2,g γ
1,σ ) is a valid co-Diﬃe-
Hellman tuple, so σ equalsgαγ
2 , the answer to the aggregate extraction problem; algorithm A
outputs it and halts.
This completes the description of algorithm A. It remains to show that A solves the given instance
of the aggregate extraction problem on ( G1,G 2) with probability at least ϵ′. To do so, we analyze
the three events needed for A to succeed:
E1: A does not abort as a result of any of V’s adjudication queries.
E2: V generates a valid and nontrivial veriﬁably-encrypted signature extraction ( M ∗,σ ∗).
E3: EventE2 occurs, and c∗ = 0 holds, where c∗ is the c-component of the tuple containing M ∗ on
the H-list.
A succeeds if all of these events happen. The probability Pr[ E1∧E 3] decomposes as
Pr[E1∧E 3] = Pr[E1]· Pr[E2|E 1]· Pr[E3|E 1∧E 2]. (2)
The following claims give a lower bound for each of these terms.
Claim 4.6. The probability that algorithm A does not abort as a result of V’s adjudication queries
is at least 1/e. Hence, Pr[E1]≥ 1/e.
17

Proof. Without loss of generality we assume that V does not ask for adjudication of the same
message twice. We prove by induction that after V makes l signature queries the probability
thatA does not abort is at least (1 − 1/(qA + 1))l. The claim is trivially true for l = 0. Let V’s
l’th adjudication query be for veriﬁably encrypted signature ( ω(l),µ (l)), on message M (l) under the
challenge keyv, and let⟨M (l),w (l),b (l),c (l)⟩ be the corresponding tuple on the H-list. Then prior to
issuing the query, the bit c(l) is independent of V’s view — the only values that could be given to V
that depend on c(l) areH(M (l)) and veriﬁably-encrypted signatures on M (l), but the distributions
on these values are the same whether c(l) = 0 or c(l) = 1. Therefore, the probability that this query
causesA to abort is at most 1 /(qA + 1). Using the inductive hypothesis and the independence of
c(l), the probability that A does not abort after this query is at least (1 − 1/(qA + 1))l. This proves
the inductive claim. Since V makes at most qA adjudication queries the probability that A does
not abort as a result of all signature queries is at least (1 − 1/(qA + 1))qA≥ 1/e.
Claim 4.7. If algorithm A does not abort as a result of V’s adjudication queries then V’s view is
identical to its view in the real attack. Hence, Pr[E2|E 1]≥ϵ.
Proof. The challenge public key v given toV is from the same distribution as public keys produced
by KeyGen; the adjudicator’s public key v′ given to V is from the same distribution as the adju-
dicator keys produces by AdjKeyGen. Responses to hash queries are as in the real attack since
each response is uniformly and independently distributed in G1. Responses to veriﬁably-encrypted
signature queries are also as in the real attack: They are valid, and their µ components are uni-
formly and independently distributed in G1. Since A did not abort as a result of V’s adjudication
queries, all its responses to those queries are valid. Therefore V will produce a valid and nontrivial
veriﬁably-encrypted signature extraction with probability at least ϵ. Hence Pr[E2|E 1]≥ϵ.
Claim 4.8. The probability that algorithm A does not abort after V outputs a valid and nontrivial
veriﬁably-encrypted signature extraction is at least 1/(qA + 1) Hence, Pr[E3|E 1∧E 2]≥ 1/(qA + 1).
Proof. Given that eventsE1 andE2 happened, algorithmA will abort only if V generates a forgery
(M ∗,σ ∗) for which the tuple⟨M ∗,w ∗,b ∗,c ∗⟩ on theH-list hasc = 1. Since its extraction is nontrivial,
V could not have requested adjudication on any veriﬁably encrypted signature on M ∗, and c∗ must
be independent of V’s current view. Therefore Pr[ c∗ = 0|E 1∧E 2]≥ 1/(qA + 1) as required.
Using the bounds from the claims above in equation (2) shows that A produces the correct
answer with probability at least ϵ/e(qA + 1)≥ϵ′ as required.
AlgorithmA’s running time is the same as V’s running time plus the time is takes to respond to
A’s oracle queries and to transform V’s veriﬁably-encrypted signature extraction into an aggregate
extraction. Each veriﬁably-encrypted signature query, each adjudication query, and the output
phase requiresA to run itsH-algorithm. It must therefore run this algorithm ( qH +qS +qA+1) times.
Each run requires an exponentiation in G1. Algorithm A must run its veriﬁably-encrypted signing
algorithmqS times, and each run requires at most three exponentiation in G1. Finally,A’s output
phase requires at most one exponentiation and one inversion in G1. We assume that exponentiation
and inversion in G1 take time cG1. Hence, the total running time is at most t +cG1(qH + 4qS +
2qA + 3)≤t′ as required.
18

4.5 Observations on Veriﬁably Encrypted Signatures
We note some extensions of the veriﬁably encrypted signature scheme discussed above. Some of
these rely for security on the k-element aggregate extraction assumption with k> 2.
• Anyone can convert an ordinary unencrypted signature to a veriﬁably encrypted signature.
The same applies to unencrypted aggregate signatures.
• An adjudicator’s private key can be shared amongst n parties using k-of-n threshold cryp-
tography [14, 13], so that k parties are needed to adjudicate a veriﬁably encrypted signature.
• A message-signature pair in the co-GDH signature scheme is of the same form as an identity–
private-key pair in Boneh-Franklin Identity-Based Encryption (IBE) [5]. Thus the veriﬁably
encrypted signature scheme can potentially be modiﬁed to yield a veriﬁable encryption scheme
for IBE private keys. Veriﬁably encrypted private keys have many applications [30].
5 Ring Signatures
Rivest, Shamir and Tauman deﬁne ring signature schemes and construct some using RSA and
Rabin cryptosystems [31]. Naor deﬁnes the closely-related notion of deniable ring authentication
and proposes such a scheme that relies only on the existence of a strong encryption function [26].
We shall see that co-GDH signatures give rise to natural ring signatures.
5.1 Ring Signatures
Consider a set U of users. Each user u∈ U has a signing keypair ( PKu, SKu). A ring signature
on U is a signature that is constructed using all the public keys of the users in U , and a single
private key of any user in U . A ring signature has the property that a veriﬁer is convinced that the
signature was produced using one of the private keys of U , but is not able to determine which one.
This property is called signer-ambiguity [31]. Applications for ring signatures include authenticated
(yet repudiable) communication and leaking secrets [31].
Zhang and Kim [32] devised a bilinear ring signature in an identity-based setting. Our scheme
diﬀers from theirs, as our goal is to extend co-GDH signatures to obtain eﬃcient ring signatures;
the system parameters and key generation algorithm in our system are identical to those of the
co-GDH scheme.
5.2 Bilinear Ring Signatures
The ring signature scheme comprises three algorithms: KeyGen, RingSign, and RingVerify. Recall
g1,g 2 are generators of groups G1,G 2 respectively, and e :G1×G2→GT is a bilinear map, and a
computable isomorphism ψ : G2→ G1 exists, with ψ(g2) = g1. Again we use a full-domain hash
function H :{0, 1}∗→G1. The security analysis views H as a random oracle.
Key Generation. For a particular user, pick random x R← Zp, and compute v←gx
2 . The user’s
public key is v∈G2. The user’s private key is x∈ Zp.
19

Ring Signing. Given public keys v1,...,v n∈ G2, a message M ∈{ 0, 1}∗, and a private key x
corresponding to one of the public keys vs for some s, choose random ai
R← Zp for all i⁄=s.
Compute h←H(M )∈G1 and set
σs←
(
h/ψ
(∏
i⁄=s
vai
i
))1/x
.
For all i⁄=s let σi←gai
1 . Output the ring signature σ =⟨σ1,...,σ n⟩∈ Gn
1 .
Ring V eriﬁcation. Given public keys v1,...,v n∈G2, a message M∈{ 0, 1}∗, and a ring signa-
ture σ, compute h←H(M ) and verify that e(h,g 2) = ∏n
i=1e(σi,v i).
Using the bilinearity and nondegeneracy of the pairing e, it is easy to show that a signature
produced by the RingSign algorithm will verify under the RingVerify algorithm.
5.3 Security
There are two aspects a security analysis for ring signatures we must consider. Firstly, signer
ambiguity must be ensured. We show that the identity of the signer is unconditionally protected.
Theorem 5.1. For any algorithm A, any set of users U , and a random u∈ U , the probability
Pr[A(σ) = u] is at most 1/|U|, where σ is any ring signature on U generated with private key SK u.
Proof. The theorem follows from a simple probability argument: for any h ∈ G1, and any s,
1≤s≤n, the distribution {ga1
1 ,...,g an
1 : ai
R← Zp for i⁄=s,a s chosen such that ∏n
i=1gai
1 =h} is
identical to the distribution {ga1
1 ,...,g an
1 : ∏n
i=1gai
1 =h}, since the value of any one of the ai’s is
uniquely determined by the values of the other ai’s.
Secondly, we need to examine the scheme’s resistance to forgery. We adopt the security model
of Rivest, Shamir and Tauman [31]. Consider the following game played between an adversary and
a challenger. The adversary is given the public keys v1,...,v n of a set of users U , and is given
oracle access to h and a ring-signing oracle. The adversary may work adaptively. The goal of the
adversary is to output a valid ring signature on U of a message M subject to the condition that
M has never been presented to the ring-signing oracle. An adversary A’s advantage Adv RingSigA
in existentially forging a bilinear ring signature is the probability, taken over the coin tosses of the
key-generation algorithm and of the forger, that A succeeds in creating a valid ring signature in
the above game.
Theorem 5.2. SupposeF is a (t′,ϵ ′)-algorithm that can produce a forgery of a ring signature on a
set of users of size n. Then there exists an (t,ϵ )-algorithm that can solve the co-CDH problem where
t≤ 2t′ + 2cG2(2n +qH +nqS) and ϵ≥ ((ϵ′/e)(1 +qS))2, where F issues at most qS ring-signature
queries and at most qH hash queries, and exponentiation and inversion on G2 take time cG2.
Proof. The co-CDH problem can be solved by ﬁrst solving two random instances of the following
problem: Given gab
1 ,g a
2 (and g1,g 2), compute gb
1. We shall construct an algorithm A that solves
this problem. This is easy if a = 0. In what follows, we assume a⁄= 0.
InitiallyA picksx2,...,x n at random from Zp and sets x1 = 1. It sets vi = (ga
2 )xi. Algorithm
F is given the public keys v1,...,v n. Without loss of generality we may assume F submits distinct
20

queries (as previous replies can be cached); that for every ring-signing query on a message M ,F
has previously issued a hash query for M ; and that F issues a hash query on the message on which
it attempts to forge a signature some time before giving its ﬁnal output.
On a hash query, A ﬂips a coin that shows 0 with probability p and 1 otherwise ( p shall be
determined later). Then A picks a random r R← Zp, and if the coins shows 0, A returns (gab
1 )r,
otherwise it returns ψ(ga
2 )r.
SupposeF issues a ring sign query for a message M . By assumption, A has previously issued a
hash query for M . If the coin A ﬂipped for this h-query showed 0, thenA fails and exits. Otherwise
A had returned H(M ) = ψ(ga
2 )r for some r. In this case A chooses random a2,...,a n
R← Zp,
computes a1 =r− (a2x2 +··· +anxn), and returns the signature σ =⟨ga1
1 ,...,g an
1 ⟩.
EventuallyF outputs a forgery ⟨σ1,...,σ n⟩ for a message M . Again by assumption, F has
previously issued a h-query for M . If the coin ﬂipped by A for this query did not show 0 then A
fails. Otherwise H(M ) = gabr
1 for somer chosen byA, andA outputs therth root of σ1σ2x2...σ nxn.
AlgorithmF cannot distinguish betweenA’s simulation and real life. Also, A will not fail with
probabilitypqS (1−p) which is maximized when p =qS/(qS + 1), giving a bound of (1 /e)(1 +qS).
If it does not fail and F successfully forges a ring signature then A is successful and outputs gb
1.
AlgorithmA requires n exponentiations on G2 in setup, one exponentiation for each of F’s hash
queries, n exponentiations for each of F’s signature queries, and n exponentiations in the output
phase, so its running time is F’s running time plus cG2(2n +qH +nqS).
5.4 Observations on Ring Signatures
Any ring signature scheme restricts to an ordinary signature scheme when n = 1. Our scheme
restricts to a short signature scheme similar to the co-GDH scheme [7]. In this modiﬁed co-GDH
scheme, σ equals h1/x rather than hx, and one veriﬁes that e(h,g 2) = e(σ,v ) rather than that
e(σ,g 2) = e(h,v ).
Bresson et al. [8] extend Rivest-Shamir-Tauman ring signatures to obtain threshold and ad-hoc
ring signatures. However, bilinear ring signatures have interesting properties that do not appear
to be shared by ring signatures in general. For any set of users U with u∈U , anyone can convert
a modiﬁed co-GDH signature by u into a ring signature by U . Speciﬁcally, to convert a modiﬁed
co-GDH signature σ1 onM for public key v1 into a ring signature σ =⟨σ′
1,...,σ ′
n⟩ onM for public
keys v1,...,v n, we choose ri
R← Zp for 2 ≤ i≤ n, and set σ′
1← σ1
∏n
i=2ψ(vri
i ) and σ′
i← ψ(v−ri
1 )
for 2≤ i≤ n. More generally, anyone can further anonymize a ring signature by adding users to
U .
6 Conclusions
We introduced the concept of aggregate signatures and constructed an eﬃcient aggregate signature
scheme based on bilinear maps. Key generation, aggregation, and veriﬁcation require no interaction.
We proved security of the system in a model that gives the adversary his choice of public keys and
messages to forge. For security, we introduced the additional constraint that an aggregate signature
is valid only if it is an aggregation of signatures on distinct messages. This constraint is satisﬁed
naturally for the applications we have in mind. More generally, the constraint can be satisﬁed by
prepending the public key to the message prior to signing.
21

We gave several applications for aggregate signatures. For example, they can be used to reduce
the size of certiﬁcate chains and reduce communication bandwidth in protocols such as SBGP. We
also showed that our speciﬁc aggregate signature scheme gives veriﬁably encrypted signatures.
Previous signature constructions using bilinear maps [7, 22, 10, 4] only required a gap Diﬃe-
Hellman group (i.e., DDH easy, but CDH hard). The signature constructions in this paper require
the extra structure provided by the bilinear map. These constructions are an example where a
bilinear map provides more power than a generic gap Diﬃe-Hellman group.
Acknowledgments
The authors thank Leonid Reyzin, Liqun Chen, and Cynthia Dwork for helpful discussions about
this work. The ﬁrst author is supported by darpa, the Packard foundation, and an nsf career
award. The third and fourth authors are supported by darpa and nsf.
References
[1] N. Asokan, V. Shoup, and M. Waidner. Optimistic fair exchange of digital signatures. IEEE
J. Selected Areas in Comm. , 18(4):593–610, Apr. 2000.
[2] F. Bao, R. Deng, and W. Mao. Eﬃcient and practical fair exchange protocols with oﬄine TTP.
In P. Karger and L. Gong, editors, Proceedings of IEEE Security & Privacy , pages 77–85, May
1998.
[3] M. Bellare and P. Rogaway. The exact security of digital signatures: How to sign with RSA
and Rabin. In U. Maurer, editor, Proceedings of Eurocrypt 1996, volume 1070 of LNCS, pages
399–416. Springer-Verlag, May 1996.
[4] A. Boldyreva. Threshold signature, multisignature and blind signature schemes based on the
gap-Diﬃe-Hellman-group signature scheme. In Y. Desmedt, editor, Proceedings of PKC 2003 ,
volume 2567 of LNCS, pages 31–46. Springer-Verlag, Jan. 2003.
[5] D. Boneh and M. Franklin. Identity-based encryption from the Weil pairing. SIAM J. Com-
puting, 32(3):586–615, 2003. Extended abstract in Proceedings of Crypto 2001 .
[6] D. Boneh, C. Gentry, B. Lynn, and H. Shacham. Aggregate and veriﬁably encrypted signatures
from bilinear maps. In E. Biham, editor, Proceedings of Eurocrypt 2003, volume 2656 of LNCS,
pages 416–32. Springer-Verlag, May 2003.
[7] D. Boneh, B. Lynn, and H. Shacham. Short signatures from the Weil pairing. J. Cryptology ,
17(4):297–319, Sept. 2004. Extended abstract in Proceedings of Asiacrypt 2001 .
[8] E. Bresson, J. Stern, and M. Szydlo. Threshold ring signatures and applications to ad-hoc
groups. In M. Yung, editor, Proceedings of Crypto 2002 , volume 2442 of LNCS, pages 465–80.
Springer-Verlag, Aug. 2002.
[9] J.-S. Coron and D. Naccache. Boneh et al.’s k-element aggregate extraction assumption is
equivalent to the Diﬃe-Hellman assumption. In C. S. Laih, editor, Proceedings of Asiacrypt
2003, volume 2894 of LNCS, pages 392–7. Springer-Verlag, Dec. 2003.
22

[10] Y. Dodis. Eﬃcient construction of (distributed) veriﬁable random functions. In Y. Desmedt,
editor, Proceedings of PKC 2003 , volume 2567 of LNCS, pages 1–17. Springer-Verlag, Jan.
2003.
[11] A. Fiat. Batch RSA. In G. Brassard, editor, Proceedings of Crypto 1989, volume 435 of LNCS,
pages 175–85. Springer-Verlag, Aug. 1989.
[12] J. Garay, M. Jakobsson, and P. MacKenzie. Abuse-free optimistic contract signing. In
M. Wiener, editor, Proceedings of Crypto 1999, volume 1666 of LNCS, pages 449–66. Springer-
Verlag, Aug. 1999.
[13] P. Gemmel. An introduction to threshold cryptography. RSA CryptoBytes , 2(3):7–12, Winter
1997.
[14] R. Gennaro, T. Rabin, S. Jarecki, and H. Krawczyk. Robust and eﬃcient sharing of RSA
functions. J. Cryptology , 13(2):273–300, 2000.
[15] C. Gentry and A. Silverberg. Hierarchical ID-based cryptography. In Y. Zheng, editor, Pro-
ceedings of Asiacrypt 2002 , volume 2501 of LNCS, pages 548–66. Springer-Verlag, Dec. 2002.
[16] S. Goldwasser, S. Micali, and R. Rivest. A digital signature scheme secure against adaptive
chosen-message attacks. SIAM J. Computing , 17(2):281–308, 1988.
[17] F. Hess. On the security of the veriﬁably encrypted signature scheme of Boneh, Gentry, Lynn
and Shacham. Info. Processing Letters , 89(3):111–4, Feb. 2004.
[18] J. Horwitz and B. Lynn. Toward hierarchical identity-based encryption. In L. Knudsen,
editor, Proceedings of Eurocrypt 2002 , volume 2332 of LNCS, pages 466–81. Springer-Verlag,
May 2002.
[19] A. Joux. A one round protocol for tripartite Diﬃe-Hellman. J. Cryptology, 17(4):263–76, Sept.
2004.
[20] A. Joux and K. Nguyen. Separating decision Diﬃe-Hellman from computational Diﬃe-Hellman
in cryptographic groups. J. Cryptology , 16(4):239–47, Sept. 2003.
[21] S. Kent, C. Lynn, and K. Seo. Secure border gateway protocol (Secure-BGP). IEEE J. Selected
Areas in Comm. , 18(4):582–92, April 2000.
[22] A. Lysyanskaya. Unique signatures and veriﬁable random functions from the DH-DDH sepa-
ration. In M. Yung, editor, Proceedings of Crypto 2002 , volume 2442 of LNCS, pages 597–612.
Springer-Verlag, Aug. 2002.
[23] S. Micali, K. Ohta, and L. Reyzin. Accountable-subgroup multisignatures (extended abstract).
In P. Samarati, editor, Proceedings of CCS 2001 , pages 245–54. ACM Press, Nov. 2001.
[24] S. Micali and R. Rivest. Transitive signature schemes. In B. Preneel, editor, Proceedings of
CT-RSA 2002 , volume 2271 of LNCS, pages 236–43. Springer-Verlag, Feb. 2002.
[25] A. Miyaji, M. Nakabayashi, and S. Takano. New explicit conditions of elliptic curve traces for
FR-reduction. IEICE Trans. Fundamentals , E84-A(5):1234–43, May 2001.
23

[26] M. Naor. Deniable ring authentication. In M. Yung, editor, Proceedings of Crypto 2002 ,
volume 2442 of LNCS, pages 481–98. Springer-Verlag, Aug. 2002.
[27] K. Ohta and T. Okamoto. Multisignature schemes secure against active insider attacks. IEICE
Trans. Fundamentals, E82-A(1):21–31, 1999.
[28] T. Okamoto. A digital multisignature scheme using bijective public-key cryptosystems. ACM
Trans. Computer Systems , 6(4):432–41, November 1988.
[29] T. Okamoto and D. Pointcheval. The gap problems: A new class of problems for the security of
cryptographic primitives. In K. Kim, editor, Proceedings of PKC 2001 , volume 1992 of LNCS,
pages 104–18. Springer-Verlag, Feb. 2001.
[30] G. Poupard and J. Stern. Fair encryption of RSA keys. In B. Preneel, editor, Proceedings of
Eurocrypt 2000, volume 1807 of LNCS, pages 172–89. Springer-Verlag, May 2000.
[31] R. Rivest, A. Shamir, and Y. Tauman. How to leak a secret. In C. Boyd, editor, Proceedings
of Asiacrypt 2001 , volume 2248 of LNCS, pages 552–65. Springer-Verlag, Dec. 2001.
[32] F. Zhang and K. Kim. ID-based blind signature and ring signature from pairings. In Y. Zheng,
editor, Proceedings of Asiacrypt 2002 , volume 2501 of LNCS, pages 533–47. Springer-Verlag,
Dec. 2002.
24