Balloon Hashing: A Memory-Hard Function
Providing Provable Protection Against
Sequential Attacks
Dan Boneh1, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs1, and Stuart Schechter2
1 Stanford University, Stanford CA 94305, U.S.A.
2 Microsoft Research, Redmond WA 98052, U.S.A.
Revised May 12, 2017.
Abstract. We present the Balloon password-hashing algorithm. This
is the ﬁrst practical cryptographic hash function that: (i) has proven
memory-hardness properties in the random-oracle model, (ii) uses a pass-
word-independent access pattern, and (iii) meets or exceeds the per-
formance of the best heuristically secure password-hashing algorithms.
Memory-hard functions require a large amount of working space to eval-
uate eﬃciently and, when used for password hashing, they dramatically
increase the cost of oﬄine dictionary attacks. In this work, we leverage
a previously unstudied property of a certain class of graphs (“random
sandwich graphs”) to analyze the memory-hardness of the Balloon algo-
rithm. The techniques we develop are general: we also use them to give
a proof of security of the scrypt and Argon2i password-hashing func-
tions in the random-oracle model. Our security analysis uses asequential
model of computation, which essentially captures attacks that run on
single-core machines. Recent work shows how to use massively parallel
special-purpose machines (e.g., with hundreds of cores) to attack Balloon
and other memory-hard functions. We discuss these important attacks,
which are outside of our adversary model, and propose practical de-
fenses against them. To motivate the need for security proofs in the area
of password hashing, we demonstrate and implement a practical attack
against Argon2i that successfully evaluates the function with less space
than was previously claimed possible. Finally, we use experimental re-
sults to compare the performance of the Balloon hashing algorithm to
other memory-hard functions.
Keywords: memory-hard functions, password hashing, pebbling argu-
ments, time-space trade-oﬀs, sandwich graph, Argon2, scrypt.
1 Introduction
The staggering number of password-ﬁle breaches in recent months demonstrates
the importance of cryptographic protection for stored passwords. In 2015 alone,
attackers stole ﬁles containing users’ login names, password hashes, and contact

information from many large and well-resourced organizations, including Last-
Pass [89], Harvard [53], E*Trade [70], ICANN [51], Costco [47], T-Mobile [86],
the University of Virginia [84], and a large number of others [74]. In this environ-
ment, systems administrators must operate under the assumption that attackers
will eventually gain access to sensitive authentication information, such as pass-
word hashes and salts, stored on their computer systems. After a compromise,
the secrecy of user passwords rests on the cost to an attacker of mounting an
oﬄine dictionary attack against the stolen ﬁle of hashed passwords.
An ideal password-hashing function has the property that it costs as much
for an attacker to compute the function as it does for the legitimate authenti-
cation server to compute it. Standard cryptographic hashes completely fail in
this regard: it takes 100 000× more energy to compute a SHA-256 hash on a
general-purpose x86 CPU (as an authentication server would use) than it does
to compute SHA-256 on special-purpose hardware (such as the ASICs that an
attacker would use) [23]. Iterating a standard cryptographic hash function, as is
done in bcrypt [75] and PBKDF2 [49], increases the absolute cost to the attacker
and defender, but the attacker’s100 000× relative cost advantage remains.
Memory-hard functions help close the eﬃciency gap between the attacker
and defender in the setting of password hashing [8, 19, 42, 64, 68]. Memory-hard
functions exploit the observation that on-chip memory is just as costly to power
on special-purpose hardware as it is on a general-purpose CPU. If evaluating the
password-hashing function requires large amounts of memory, then an attacker
using special-purpose hardware has little cost advantage over the legitimate au-
thentication server (using a standard x86 machine, for example) at running the
password-hashing computation. Memory consumes a large amount of on-chip
area, so the high memory requirement ensures that a special-purpose chip can
only contain a small number of hashing engines.
An optimal memory-hard function, with security parametern, has a space-
time product that satisﬁesS·T ∈ Ω(n2), irrespective of the strategy used to
compute the function [68]. The challenge is to construct a function thatprovably
satisﬁes this bound with the largest possible constant multiple on then2 term.
In this paper, we introduce the Balloon memory-hard function for password
hashing. This is the ﬁrst practical password-hashing function to simultaneously
satisfy three important design goals [64]:
–Proven memory-hard.We prove, in the random-oracle model [14], that com-
puting the Balloon function with spaceS and timeT requiresS·T≥n2/32
(approximately). As the adversary’s space usage decreases, we prove even
sharper time-space lower bounds.
To motivate our interest in memory-hardness proofs, we demonstrate in Sec-
tion 4 an attack against the Argon2i password hashing function [19], winner
of a recent password-hashing design competition [64]. The attack evaluates
the function with far less space than claimed without changing the time
required to compute the function. We also give a proof of security for Ar-
gon2i in the random-oracle model, which demonstrates that signiﬁcantly
2

more powerful attacks against Argon2i are impossible under our adversary
model.
–Password-independent memory-access pattern.The memory-access pattern
of the Balloon algorithm isindependent of the password being hashed. Pass-
word-hashing functions that lack this property are vulnerable to a crippling
attack in the face of an adversary who learns the memory-access patterns
of the hashing computation, e.g., via cache side-channels [25, 62, 87]. The
attack, which we describe in Appendix G.2, makes it possible to run a dic-
tionary attack with very little memory. A hashing function with a password-
independent memory-access pattern eliminates this threat.
–Performant. The Balloon algorithm is easy to implement and it matches
or exceeds the performance of the fastest comparable password-hashing al-
gorithms, Argon2i [19] and Catena [42], when instantiated with standard
cryptographic primitives (Section 6).
We analyze the memory-hardness properties of the Balloon function using
pebble games, which are arguments about the structure of the data-dependency
graph of the underlying computation [54, 65, 67, 81, 85]. Our analysis uses
the framework of Dwork, Naor, and Wee [37]—later applied in a number of
cryptographic works [6, 8, 38, 39, 42]—to relate the hardness of pebble games
to the hardness of certain computations in the random-oracle model [14].
The crux of our analysis is a new observation about the properties of “random
sandwich graphs,” a class of graphs studied in prior work on pebbling [6, 8]. To
show that our techniques are broadly applicable, we apply them in Appendices F
and G to give simple proofs of memory-hardness, in the random-oracle model, for
the Argon2i and scrypt functions. We prove stronger memory-hardness results
about the Balloon algorithm, but these auxiliary results about Argon2i and
scrypt may be of independent interest to the community.
The performance of the Balloon hashing algorithm is surprisingly good, given
that our algorithm oﬀers stronger proven security properties than other practical
memory-hard functions with a password-independent memory access patterns.
For example, if we conﬁgure Balloon to use Blake2b as the underlying hash
function [10], run the construction for ﬁve “rounds” of hashing, and set the space
parameter to require the attacker to use 1 MiB of working space to compute
the function, then we can compute Balloon Hashes at the rate of 13 hashes per
second on a modern server, compared with 12.8 for Argon2i, and 2.1 for Catena
DBG (when Argon2i and Catena DBG are instantiated with Blake2b as the
underlying cryptographic hash function).3
Caveat: Parallel Attacks.The deﬁnition of memory-hardness we use puts a lower-
bound on the time-space product of computing asingle instance of the Balloon
function on a sequential (single-core) computer. In reality, an adversary mount-
ing a dictionary attack would want to computebillions of instances of the Bal-
loon function, perhaps using many processors running in parallel. Alwen and
3 The relatively poor performance of Argon2i here is due to the attack we present in
Section 4. It allows an attacker to save space in computing Argon2i with no increase
in computation time.
3

Serbinenko [8], formalizing earlier work by Percival [68], introduce a new com-
putational model—the parallel random-oracle model (pROM)—and a memory-
hardness criterion that addresses the shortcomings of the traditional model. In
recent work, Alwen and Blocki prove the surprising result thatno functionthat
uses a password-independent memory access pattern can be optimally memory-
hard in the pROM [3]. In addition, they give a special-purpose pROM algorithm
for computing Argon2i, Balloon, and other practical (sequential) memory-hard
functions with some space savings. We discuss this important class of attacks
and the relevant related work in Section 5.1.
Contributions. In this paper, we
–introduceandanalyzetheBalloonhashingfunction,whichhasstrongerprov-
able security guarantees than prior practical memory-hard functions (Sec-
tion 3),
–present a practical memory-saving attack against the Argon2i password-
hashing algorithm (Section 4), and
–explain how to ameliorate the danger of massively parallel attacks against
memory-hard functions with a password-independent access pattern (Sec-
tion 5.1)
–prove the ﬁrst known time-space lower bounds for Argon2i and an idealized
variant of scrypt, in the random-oracle model. (See Appendices F and G.)
With the Balloon algorithm, we demonstrate that it is possible to provide prov-
able protection against a wide class of attacks without sacriﬁcing performance.
Notation. Throughout this paper, Greek symbols (α, β, γ, λ, etc.) typically
denote constants greater than one. We uselog2(·) to denote a base-two logarithm
and log(·) to denote a logarithm when the base is not important. For a ﬁnite
set S, the notation x←
R
S indicates sampling an element ofS uniformly at
random and assigning it to the variablex.
2 Security Deﬁnitions
This section summarizes the high-level security and functionality goals of a pass-
word hashing function in general and the Balloon hashing algorithm in particu-
lar. We draw these aims from prior work on password hashing [68, 75] and also
from the requirements of the recent Password Hashing Competition [64].
2.1 Syntax
The Balloon password hashing algorithm takes four inputs: a password, salt,
time parameter, and space parameter. The output is a bitstring of ﬁxed length
(e.g., 256 or 512 bits). The password and salt are standard [59], but we elaborate
on the role of the latter parameters below.
4

Space Parameter (Buﬀer Size).The space parameter, which we denote as “n”
throughout, indicates how many ﬁxed-size blocks of working space the hash
function will require during the course of its computation, as in scrypt [68]. At
a high level, a memory-hard function should be “easy” to compute withn blocks
of working space and should be “hard” to compute with much less space than
that. We make this notion precise later on.
Time Parameter (Number of Rounds).The Balloon function takes as input a
parameterr that determines the number of “rounds” of computation it performs.
As in bcrypt [75], the larger the time parameter, the longer the hash computation
will take. On memory-limited platforms, a system administrator can increase
the number of rounds of hashing to increase the cost of computing the function
without increasing the algorithm’s memory requirement. The choice ofr has
an eﬀect on the memory-hardness properties of the scheme: the largerr is, the
longer it takes to compute the function in small space.
2.2 Memory-Hardness
We say that a functionfn on space parametern is memory-hard in the (sequen-
tial)random-oraclemodel[14]if,foralladversariescomputing fn withhighprob-
ability using spaceS and T random oracle queries, we have thatS·T∈Ω(n2).
This deﬁnition deserves a bit of elaboration. Following Dziembowski et al. [39]
we say that an algorithm “uses spaceS” if the entire conﬁguration of the Turing
Machine (or RAM machine) computing the algorithm requires at leastS bits to
describe. When, we say that an algorithm computes a function “with high prob-
ability,” we mean that the probability that the algorithm computes the function
is non-negligible as the output size of the random oracle and the space parameter
n tend to inﬁnity. In practice, we care about the adversary’s concrete success
probability, so we avoid asymptotic notions of security wherever possible. In ad-
dition, as we discuss in the evaluation section (Section 6), the exact value of
the constant hidden inside theΩ(·) is important for practical purposes, so our
analysis makes explicit and optimizes these constants.
A function that is memory-hard under this deﬁnition requires the adversary
to use either a lot of working space or a lot of execution time to compute the
function. Functions that are memory-hard in this way are not amenable to im-
plementation in special-purpose hardware (ASIC), since the cost to power a unit
of memory for a unit of time on an ASIC is the same as the cost on a commodity
server. An important limitation of this deﬁnition is that it does not take into
account parallel or multiple-instance attacks, which we discuss in Section 5.1.
2.3 Password-Independent Access Pattern
A ﬁrst-class design goal of the Balloon algorithm is to have a memory access
pattern that isindependent of the password being hashed. (We allow the data-
access pattern to depend on the salt, since the salts can be public.) As mentioned
above, employing a password-independent access pattern reduces the risk that
5

information about the password will leak to other users on the same machine
via cache or other side-channels [25, 62, 87]. This may be especially important in
cloud-computing environments, in which many mutually distrustful users share
a single physical host [78].
Creating a memory-hard function with a password-independent access pat-
tern presents a technical challenge: since the data-access pattern depends only
upon the salt—which an adversary who steals the password ﬁle knows—the ad-
versary can compute the entire access pattern in advance of a password-guessing
attack.Withtheaccesspatterninhand,theadversarycanexpendahugeamount
of eﬀort to ﬁnd an eﬃcient strategy for computing the hash function in small
space. Although this pre-computation might be expensive, the adversary can
amortize its cost over billions of subsequent hash evaluations. A function that is
memory-hard and that uses a password-independent data access pattern must
be impervious toall small-space strategies for computing the function so that it
maintains its strength in the face of these pre-computation attacks. (Indeed, as
we discuss in Section 5.1, Alwen and Blocki show that in some models of com-
putation, memory-hard functions with password-independent access patterns do
not exist [3].)
2.4 Collision Resistance, etc.
If necessary, we can modify the Balloon function so that it provides the stan-
dard properties of second-preimage resistance and collision resistance [57]. It is
possible to achieve these properties in a straightforward way by composing the
Balloon functionB with a standard cryptographic hash functionH as
HB(passwd,salt) :=H(passwd,salt,B (passwd,salt)).
Now, for example, ifH is collision-resistant, thenHB must also be.4 That is
because any inputs(xp,xs)⁄= (yp,ys) toHB that causeHB(xp,xs) = HB(yp,ys)
immediately yield a collision forH as:
(xp,xs,B (xp,xs)) and (yp,ys,B (yp,ys)),
no matter how the Balloon functionB behaves.
3 Balloon Hashing Algorithm
In this section, we present the Balloon hashing algorithm.
3.1 Algorithm
4 Weareelidingimportantdeﬁnitionalquestionsaboutwhatitevenmeans,inaformal
sense, for a function to be collision resistant [17, 79].
6

func Balloon(block_t passwd, block_t salt,
int s_cost, // Space cost (main buffer size)
int t_cost): // Time cost (number of rounds)
int delta = 3 // Number of dependencies per block
int cnt = 0 // A counter (used in security proof)
block_t buf[s_cost]): // The main buffer
// Step 1. Expand input into buffer.
buf[0] = hash(cnt++, passwd, salt)
for m from 1 to s_cost-1:
buf[m] = hash(cnt++, buf[m-1])
// Step 2. Mix buffer contents.
for t from 0 to t_cost-1:
for m from 0 to s_cost-1:
// Step 2a. Hash last and current blocks.
block_t prev = buf[(m-1) mod s_cost]
buf[m] = hash(cnt++, prev, buf[m])
// Step 2b. Hash in pseudorandomly chosen blocks.
for i from 0 to delta-1:
block_t idx_block = ints_to_block(t, m, i)
int other = to_int(hash(cnt++, salt, idx_block)) mod s_cost
buf[m] = hash(cnt++, buf[m], buf[other])
// Step 3. Extract output from buffer.
return buf[s_cost-1]
Fig.1: Pseudo-code of the Balloon hashing algorithm.
The algorithm uses a standard (non-memory-hard) cryptographic hash func-
tionH : ZN×{ 0, 1}2k→{ 0, 1}k as a subroutine, whereN is a large integer. For
the purposes of our analysis, we model the functionH as a random oracle [14].
The Balloon algorithm uses a large memory buﬀer as working space and we
divide this buﬀer into contiguousblocks. The size of each block is equal to the
output size of the hash functionH. Our analysis is agnostic to the choice of hash
function, except that, to prevent pitfalls described in Appendix B.3, the internal
state size ofH must be at least as large as its output size. SinceH maps blocks
of 2k bits down to blocks ofk bits, we sometimes refer toH as acryptographic
compression function.
The Balloon function operates in three steps (Figure 1):
1. Expand. In the ﬁrst step, the Balloon algorithm ﬁlls up a large buﬀer with
pseudo-random bytes derived from the password and salt by repeatedly in-
voking the compression functionH on a function of the password and salt.
2. Mix. In the second step, the Balloon algorithm performs a “mixing” oper-
ation r times on the pseudo-random bytes in the memory buﬀer. The user-
speciﬁed round parameterr determines how many rounds of mixing take
7

place. At each mixing step, for each blocki in the buﬀer, the routine up-
dates the contents of blocki to be equal to the hash of block(i− 1) mod n,
block i, andδ other blocks chosen “at random” from the buﬀer. (See The-
orem 1 for an illustration of how the choice ofδ aﬀects the security of the
scheme.)
Since the Balloon functions are deterministic functions of their arguments,
the dependencies are not chosen truly at random but are sampled using a
pseudorandom stream of bits generated from the user-speciﬁc salt.
3. Extract. In the last step, the Balloon algorithm outputs the last block of
the buﬀer.
Multi-Core Machines.A limitation of the Balloon algorithm as described is
that it does not allow even limited parallelism, since the value of theith block
computed always depends on the value of the(i−1)th block. To increase the rate
at which the Balloon algorithm can ﬁll memory on a multi-core machine with
M cores, we can deﬁne a function that invokes the Balloon functionM times in
parallel and XORs all the outputs. IfBalloon(p,s ) denotes the Balloon function
on passwordp and salts, then we can deﬁne anM-core variant BalloonM (p,s )
as:
BalloonM (p,s ) := Balloon(p, s‖“1”)⊕···⊕ Balloon(p, s‖“M”).
A straightforward argument shows that computing this function requires com-
putingM instances of the single-core Balloon function. Existing password hash-
ing functions deploy similar techniques on multi-core platforms [19, 42, 68, 69].
3.2 Main Security Theorem
The following theorem demonstrates that attackers who attempt to compute the
Balloon function in small space must pay a large penalty in computation time.
The complete theorem statement is given in Theorem 33 (Appendix E).
Theorem 1 (informal)LetA be an algorithm that computes then-block r-
round Balloon function with security parameterδ = 3, whereH is modeled as a
random oracle. IfA uses at mostS blocks of buﬀer space then, with overwhelming
probability,A must run for time (approximately)T, such that
S·T≥ r·n2
32 .
When δ = 7 and S <n/64, one obtains the stronger bound:
S·T≥ (2r− 1)n2
32 .
Thus, attackers who attempt to compute the Balloon function in very small
space must pay a large penalty in computation time. The proof of the theorem
is given in the appendices: Appendix B introduces graph pebbling arguments,
8

which are the basis for our memory-hardness proofs. Appendix C proves a key
combinatorial lemma required for analysis of the Balloon functions. Appendix D
recalls sandwich graphsand proves that stacks of random sandwich graphs are
hard to pebble. Appendix E puts all of the pieces together to complete the proof
of Theorem 1.
Here we sketch the main ideas in the proof of Theorem 1.
v_1 = hash(input, "0")
v_2 = hash(input, "1")
v_3 = hash(v_1, v_2)
v_4 = hash(v_2, v_3)
v_5 = hash(v_3, v_4)
return v_5
in
v1
v2
v3
v4
v5
Fig.2: An example computation (left) and its corresponding data-dependency
graph (right).
Proof idea. The proof makes use of pebbling arguments, a classic technique
for analyzing computational time-space trade-oﬀs [48, 54, 67, 71, 81, 88] and
memory-hard functions [8, 37, 38, 42]. We apply pebbling arguments to thedata-
dependency graphcorresponding to the computation of the Balloon function (See
Figure 2 for an example graph). The graph contains a vertex for every random
oracle query made during the computation of Balloon: vertexvi in the graph
represents the response to theith random-oracle query. An edge(vi,vj) indicates
that the input to thejth random-oracle query depends on the response of the
ith random-oracle query.
The data-dependency graph for a Balloon computation naturally separates
intor + 1 layers—one for each round of mixing (Figure 3). That is, a vertex on
level𝓁∈{ 1,...,r } of the graph represents the output of a random-oracle query
made during the𝓁th mixing round.
The ﬁrst step in the proof shows that the data-dependency graph of a Balloon
computation satisﬁes certain connectivity properties, deﬁned below, with high
probability. The probability is taken over the choice of random oracleH, which
determines the data-dependency graph. Consider placing a pebble on each of a
subset of the vertices of the data-dependency graph of a Balloon computation.
Then, as long as there are “not too many” pebbles on the graph, we show that
the following two properties hold with high probability:
–Well-Spreadedness.For every set ofk consecutive vertices on some level of
the graph, at least a quarter of the vertices on the prior level of the graph
are on unpebbled paths to thesek vertices (Lemma 28).
–Expansion. All sets ofk vertices on any level of the graph have unpebbled
paths back to at least2k vertices on the prior level(Lemma 29). The value
of k depends on the choice of the parameterδ.
9

L0
L1
L2
input
output
Fig.3: The Balloon data-dependency graph onn = 8 blocks andr = 2 rounds,
drawn withδ = 1 for simplicity. (The real construction usesδ≥ 3.) The dashed
edges are ﬁxed and the solid edges are chosen pseudorandomly by applying the
random oracle to the salt.
The next step is to show that everygraph-respectingalgorithm computing
the Balloon function requires large space or time. We say that an adversaryA
is graph respecting if for everyi, adversaryA makes query numberi to the
random-oracle only after it has in storage all of the values that this query takes
as input.5
Weshow,usingthewell-spreadednessandexpansionpropertiesoftheBalloon
data-dependency graph, that every graph-respecting adversaryA must use space
S and time T satisfying S·T ≥ n2/32, with high probability over the choice
of H (Lemma 31). We use the graph structure in the proof as follows: ﬁx a set
ofk values that the adversary has not yet computed. Then the graph properties
imply that these k values have many dependencies that a space-S adversary
cannot have in storage. Thus, making progress towards computing the Balloon
function in small space requires the adversary to undertake a huge amount of
recomputation.
The ﬁnal step uses a technique of Dwork, Naor, and Wee [37]. They use the
notion of a graphlabeling to convert a directed acyclic graphG into a function
fG (Deﬁnition 3). They prove that ifG is a graph that is infeasible for time-T
space-S graph-respecting pebbling adversaries to compute, then it is infeasible
for time-T′ space-S′ arbitrary adversaries to compute the labeling functionfG,
with high probability in the random-oracle model (Theorem 4), whereT′≈ T
and S′≈S.
We observe that Balloon computes the functionfG where G is the Balloon
data-dependency graph (Claim 32). We then directly apply the technique of
Dwork, Naor, and Wee to obtain a upper bound on the probability that an
5 This description is intentionally informal—see Appendix B for the precise statement.
10

arbitrary adversary can compute the Balloon function in small time and space
(Theorem 33).
4 Attacking and Defending Argon2
In this section, we analyze the Argon2i password hashing function [19], which
won the recent Password Hashing Competition [64].
An Attack.We ﬁrst present an attack showing that it possible for an attacker
to compute multi-pass Argon2i (the recommended version) saving a factor of
e≈ 2.72 in space withno increase in computation time.6 Additionally, we show
that an attacker can compute the single-pass variant of Argon2i, which is also
described in the speciﬁcation, saving more than a factor of four in space, again
with no increase in computation time. These attacks demonstrate an unexpected
weakness in the Argon2i design, and show the value of a formal security analysis.
A Defense. In Appendix F, we give the ﬁrst proof of security showing that,
with high probability, single-passn-block Argon2i requires spaceS and timeT
to compute, such thatS·T≥n2/1536, in the sequential random-oracle model.
Our proof is relatively simple and uses the same techniques we have developed to
reason about the Balloon algorithm. The time-space lower bound we can prove
about Argon2i is weaker than the one we can prove about Balloon, since the
Argon2i result leaves open the possibility of an attack that saves a factor of
1536 factor in space with no increase in computation time. If Argon2i becomes
a standard algorithm for password hashing, it would be a worthwhile exercise
to try to improve the constants on both the attacks and lower bounds to get a
clearer picture of its exact memory-hardness properties.
4.1 Attack Overview
Our Argon2i attacks require a linear-time pre-computation operation that is
independent of the password and salt. The attacker need only run the pre-
computation phase once for a given choice of the Argon2i public parameters
(buﬀer size, round count, etc.). After running the pre-computation step once,
it is possible to compute many Argon2i password hashes, on diﬀerent salts and
diﬀerent passwords using our small-space computation strategy. Thus, the cost
of the pre-computation is amortized over many subsequent hash computations.
The attacks we demonstrate undermine the security claims of the Argon2i
(version 1.2.1) design documents [19]. The design documents claim that com-
putingn-block single-pass Argon2i withn/4 space incurs a7.3× computational
penalty [19, Table 2]. Our attacks show that there is no computational penalty.
The design documents claim that computingn-block three-pass Argon2i with
6 We have notiﬁed the Argon2i designers of this attack and the latest version of the
speciﬁcation incorporates a design change that attempts to prevent the attack [21].
We describe the attack on the original Argon2i design, the winner of the password
hashing competition [64].
11

n/3 space incurs a 16, 384× computational penalty [19, Section 5.4]. We com-
pute the function inn/2.7≈n/3 space with no computational penalty.
We analyze a idealized version the Argon2i algorithm, which is slightly sim-
pler than that proposed in the Argon2i v1.2.1 speciﬁcation [19]. Our idealized
analysis underestimates the eﬃcacy of our small-space computation strategy, so
the strategy we propose is actuallymore eﬀectiveat computing Argon2i than the
analysis suggests. The idealized analysis yields an expectedn/4 storage cost, but
as Figure 4 demonstrates, empirically our strategy allows computing single-pass
Argon2i with only n/5 blocks of storage. This analysis focuses on the single-
threaded instantiation of Argon2i—we have not tried to extend it to the many-
threaded variant.
4.2 Background on Argon.
At a high level, the Argon2i hashing scheme operates by ﬁlling up ann-block
buﬀer with pseudo-random bytes, one 1024-byte block at a time. The ﬁrst two
blocks are derived from the password and salt. Fori∈{ 3,...,n }, the block
at index i is derived from two blocks: the block at index(i− 1) and a block
selected pseudo-randomly from the set of blocks generated so far. If we denote
the contents of blocki as xi, then Argon2i operates as follows:
x1 =H(passwd, salt‖ 1)
x2 =H(passwd, salt‖ 2)
xi =H(xi−1,xri ) where ri∈{ 1,...,i − 1}
Here,H is a non-memory-hard cryptographic hash function mapping two blocks
into one block. The random indexri is sampled from a non-uniform distribu-
tion overSi ={1,...,i − 1} that has a heavy bias towards blocks with larger
indices. We model the index valueri as if it were sampled from the uniform dis-
tribution overSi. Our small-space computation strategy performsbetterunder a
distribution biased towards larger indices, so our analysis is actually somewhat
conservative.
The single-pass variant of Argon2i computes (x1,...,x n) in sequence and
outputs bytes derived from the last blockxn. Computing the function in the
straightforward way requires storing every generated block for the duration of
the computation—n blocks total
The multiple-pass variant of Argon2i works as above except that it computes
pn blocks instead of justn blocks, wherep is a user-speciﬁed integer indicating
the number of “passes” over the memory the algorithm takes. (The number of
passes in Argon2i is analogous to number of roundsr in Balloon hashing.) The
default number of passes is three. In multiple-pass Argon2i, the contents of block
iarederivedfromthepriorblockandoneofthemostrecent nblocks.Theoutput
of the function is derived from the valuexpn. When computing the multiple-pass
variantofArgon2i,oneneedonlystorethelatest nblockscomputed(sinceearlier
blocks will never be referenced again), so the storage cost of the straightforward
algorithm is still roughlyn blocks.
12

Time
0
N/5
N/4
Memory in use
Predicted
Actual
Fig.4: Space used by our algorithm for computing single-pass Argon2i during a
single hash computation.
Our analysis splits the Argon2i computation into discrete time steps, where
time steptbegins at the moment at which the algorithm invokes the compression
function H for thetth time.
4.3 Attack Algorithm
Our strategy for computingp-pass Argon2i with fewer thann blocks of memory
is as follows:
– Pre-computation Phase.We run the entire hash computation once—on
an arbitrary password and salt—and write the memory access pattern to
disk. For each memory blocki, we pre-compute the timeti after which block
i is never again accessed and we store{t1,...,t pn} in a read-only array. The
total size of this table on a 64-bit machine is at most8pn bytes.7
Since the Argon2i memory-access pattern does not depend on the password
orsalt,itispossibletousethissamepre-computedtableformanysubsequent
Argon2i hash computations (on diﬀerent salts and passwords).
– Computation Phase.We compute the hash function as usual, except that
we delete blocks that will never be accessed again. After reading blocki
during the hash computation at time stept, we check whether the current
time t≥ti. If so, we delete blocki from memory and reuse the space for a
new block.
The expected space required to computen-block single-pass Argon2i isn/4.
The expected space required to computen-block many-pass Argon2i tends to
n/e≈ 2.7 as the number of passes tends to inﬁnity. We analyze the space usage
of the attack algorithm in detail in Appendix A.
7 On an FPGA or ASIC, this table can be stored in relatively cheap shared read-only
memory and the storage cost can be amortized over a number of compute cores.
Even on a general-purpose CPU, the table and memory buﬀer for the single-pass
construction together will only require 8n + 1024(n/4) = 8 n + 256n bytes when
using our small-space computation strategy. Argon2i normally requires1024n bytes
of buﬀer space, so our strategy still yields a signiﬁcant space savings.
13

5 Discussion
In this section, we discuss parallel attacks against memory-hard functions and
compare Balloon to other candidate password-hashing functions.
5.1 Memory Hardness Under Parallel Attacks
The Balloon Hashing algorithm achieves the notion of memory-hardness intro-
duced in Section 2.2: an algorithm for computing Balloon must, with high proba-
bility in the random-oracle model, use (roughly) timeT and spaceS that satisfy
S·T ∈ Ω(n2). Using the time-space product in this way as a proxy metric
for computation cost is natural, since it approximates the area-time product
required to compute the function in hardware [68].
As Alwen and Serbinenko [8] point out, there are two key limitations to the
standard deﬁnition of memory-hardness in which we prove security. First, the
deﬁnition yields asingle-instance notion of security. That is, our deﬁnition of
memory-hardness puts a lower-bound on theST cost of computing the Balloon
function once, whereas in a password-guessing attack, the adversary potentially
wants to compute the Balloon functionbillions of times.8 Second, the deﬁnition
treats a sequential model of computation—in which the adversary can make a
single random-oracle query at each time step. In contrast, a password-guessing
adversary may have access to thousands of computational cores operatingin
parallel.
To address the limitations of the conventional single-instance sequential ad-
versary model, which we use for our analysis of the Balloon function, Alwen and
Serbinenko introduce a new adversary model and security deﬁnition. Essentially,
they allow the adversary to make many parallel random-oracle queries at each
time step. In this “parallel random-oracle model” (pROM), they attempt to put a
lower bound on the sum of the adversary’s space usage over time:∑
tSt∈Ω(n2),
whereSt is the number of blocks of space used in thet-th computation step. We
call a function that satisﬁes this notion of memory-hardness in the pROM an
amortized memory-hardfunction.9
To phrase the deﬁnition in diﬀerent terms: Alwen and Serbinenko look for
functions f such that computingf requires a large amount of working spaceat
many pointsduring the computation off. In contrast, the traditional deﬁnition
(which we use) proves the weaker statement that the adversary computingf
must use a lot of spaceat some pointduring the computation off.
8 Bellare, Ristenpart, and Tessaro consider a diﬀerent type of multi-instance secu-
rity [13]: they are interested in key-derivation functionsf with the property that
ﬁnding(x1,...,x m) given (f (x1),...,f (xm)) is roughlym times as costly as invert-
ing f once. Stebila et al. [83] and Groza and Warinschi [46] investigate a similar
multiple-instance notion of security for client puzzles [36] and Garay et al. [43] in-
vestigate related notions in the context of multi-party computation.
9 In the original scrypt paper, Percival [68] also discusses parallel attacks and makes
an argument for the security of scrypt in the pROM.
14

An impressive recent line of work has uncovered many new results in this
model:
–Alwen and Blocki [3, 4] show that, in the pROM, theredoes not exista per-
fectly memory-hard function (in the amortized sense) that uses a password-
independent memory-access pattern. In the sequential setting, Balloon and
other memory-hard functions require spaceS and timeT to compute such
that S·T∈Ω(n2). In the parallel setting, Alwen and Blocki show that the
best one can hope for, in terms of amortized space usage isΩ(n2/ logn). Ad-
ditionally, they give special-case attack algorithms for computing many can-
didatepassword-hashingalgorithmsinthepROM.Theiralgorithmcomputes
Balloon, for example, using an amortized time-space product of roughly
O(n7/4).10
–Alwen et al. [6] show that the amortized space-time complexity of the single-
round Balloon function is at least˜Ω(n5/3), where the ˜Ω(·) ignores logarith-
mic factors of n. This result puts a limit on the eﬀectiveness of parallel
attacks against Balloon.
–Alwenetal.[5]constructamemory-hardfunctionwithapassword-independ-
ent access pattern and that has an asymptotically optimal amortized time-
space product ofS·T ∈ Ω(n2/ logn). Whether this construction is useful
for practical purposes will depend heavily on value of the constant hidden
in the Ω(·). In practice, a large constant may overwhelm the asymptotic
improvement.
–Alwen et al. [6] prove, under combinatorial conjectures11 that scryptis near-
optimally memory-hard in the pROM. Unlike Balloon, scrypt uses a data-
dependent access pattern—which we would like to avoid—and the data-
dependence of scrypt’s access pattern seems fundamental to their security
analysis.
As far as practical constructions go, these results leave the practitioner with
two options, each of which has a downside:
Option 1. Use scrypt, which seems to protect against parallel attacks, but which
uses a password-dependent access pattern and is weak in the face of an
adversarythatcanlearnmemoryaccessinformation.(Wedescribetheattack
in Appendix G.2.)
Option 2. Use Balloon Hashing, which uses a password-independent access pat-
tern and is secure against sequential attacks, but which is asymptotically
weak in the face of a massively parallel attack.
A good practical solution is to hash passwords using a careful composition of
Balloon and scrypt: one function defends against memory access pattern leakage
10 There is no consensus on whether it would be feasible to implement this parallel
attack in hardware for realistic parameter sizes. That said, the fact that such pROM
attacks exist at all are absolutely a practical concern.
11 A recent addendum to the paper suggests that the combinatorial conjectures that
underlie their proof of security may be false [7, Section 0].
15

and the other defends against massively parallel attacks. For the moment, let
us stipulate that the pROM attacks on vanilla Balloon (and all other practi-
cal password hashing algorithms using data-independent access patterns) make
these algorithms less-than-ideal to use on their own. Can we somehow combine
the two constructions to get a “best-of-both-worlds” practical password-hashing
algorithm? The answer is yes: compose a data-independent password-hashing
algorithm, such as Balloon, with a data-dependent scheme, such as scrypt.
To use the composed scheme, one would ﬁrst run the password through the
data-independent algorithm and next run the resulting hash through the data-
dependent algorithm.12
It is not diﬃcult to show that the composed scheme is memory-hard against
either: (a) an attacker who is able to learn the function’s data-access pattern on
the target password, or (b) an attacker who mounts an attack in the pROM using
the parallel algorithm of Alwen and Blocki [3]. The composed scheme defends
against the two attacks separately but does not defend against both of them
simultaneously: the composed function does not maintain memory-hardness in
the face of an attacker who is powerful enough to get access-pattern information
andmount a massively parallel attack. It would be even better to have a practical
construction that could protect against both attacks simultaneously, but the best
known algorithms that do this [5, 8] are likely too ineﬃcient to use in practice.
The composed function is almost as fast as Balloon on its own—adding the
data-dependent hashing function call is eﬀectively as costly as increasing the
round count of the Balloon algorithm by one.
5.2 How to Compare Memory-Hard Functions
If we restrict ourselves to considering memory-hard functions in the sequential
setting, there are a number of candidate constructions that all can be proven se-
cureintherandom-oraclemodel:Argon2i[21], 13 CatenaBRG,CatenaDBG[42],
and Balloon. There is no widely accepted metric with which one measures the
quality of a memory-hard function, so it is diﬃcult to compare these functions
quantitatively.
In this section, we propose one such metric and compare the four candidate
functions under it. The metric we propose captures the notion that a good
memory-hard function is one that makes the attacker’s job as diﬃcult as possible
given that the defender (e.g., the legitimate authentication server) still needs to
hash passwords in a reasonable amount of time. LetTf (A) denote the expected
running time of an algorithmA computing a functionf and let STf (A) denote
its expected space-time product. Then we deﬁne the qualityQ of a memory-hard
12 Our argument here gives some theoretical justiﬁcation for the the Argon2id mode
of operation proposed in some versions of the Argon2 speciﬁcation [21, Appendix
B]. That variant follows a hashing with a password-independent access pattern by
hashing with a password-dependent access pattern.
13 We provide a proof of security for single-pass Argon2i in Appendix F.
16

function against a sequential attackerAS using spaceS to be the ratio:
Q[AS,f ] = STf (AS)
Tf (Honest).
We can deﬁne a similar notion of quality in the amortized/parallel setting: just
replace the quantity in the numerator (the adversary’s space-time product) with
the sum of a pROM adversary’s space usage over time:∑
tSt ofAS.
We can now use the existing memory-hardness proofs to put lower bounds on
the quality (in the sequential model) of the candidate memory-hard functions.
We show in Appendix F that Argon2i has a sequential time-space lower bound
of the formS·T≥n2/1536. Then-block r-round Balloon function has a time-
space lower-bound of the formS·T ≥ (2r− 1)n2/32 for S < n/64 when the
parameter δ = 3 . The n-block Catena BRG function has a time-space lower
bound of the formS·T≥ n2/16 (Catena BRG has no round parameter). The
r-roundn-block Catena DBG function has a claimed time-space lower bound of
the formS·T≥n( rn
64S )r. These lower-bounds yield the following quality ﬁgures
against an adversary using roughlyn/64 space:
Q[AS,Balloon(r=1)]≥ n
64 ; Q[AS,Balloon(r>1)]≥ (2r− 1)n
32(r + 1)
Q[AS,Catena-BRG]≥ n
32 ; Q[AS,Catena-DBG]≥ rr
2r log2n
Q[AS,Argon2i]≥ n
1536
From these quality ratios, we can draw a few conclusions about the protection
these functions provide against one class of small-space attackers (usingS ≈
n/64):
–In terms of provable memory-hardness properties in the sequential model,
one-round Balloon always outperforms Argon2i.
–In terms of provable memory-hardness properties in the sequential model,
Catena-BRG outperforms one-round Balloon.
–When the buﬀer sizen grows and the number of roundsr is held ﬁxed,
Balloon outperforms Catena-DBG.
–When the buﬀer sizen is ﬁxed and the number of roundsr grows large,
Catena-DBG provides the strongest provable memory-hardness properties
in the sequential model.
6 Experimental Evaluation
In this section, we demonstrate experimentally that the Balloon hashing algo-
rithm is competitive performance-wise with two existing practical algorithms
(Argon2i and Catena), when all are instiated with standard cryptographic prim-
itives.
17

6.1 Experimental Set-up
Our experiments use the OpenSSL implementation (version 1.0.1f) of SHA-512
and the reference implementations of three other cryptographic hash functions
(Blake2b, ECHO, and SHA-3/Keccak). We use optimized versions of the un-
derlying cryptographic primitives where available, but the core Balloon code is
written entirely in C. Our source code is available at https://crypto.stanford.
edu/balloon/ under the ISC open-source license. We used a workstation run-
ning an Intel Core i7-6700 CPU (Skylake) at 3.40 GHz with 8 GiB of RAM
for our performance benchmarks. We compiled the code for our timing results
with gcc version 4.8.5 using the-O3 option. We average all of our measurements
over 32 trials. We compare the Balloon functions against Argon2i (v.1.2.1) [19]
and Catena [42]. For comparison purposes, we implemented the Argon2i, Catena
BRG, and Catena DBG memory-hard algorithms in C.
On the Choice of Cryptographic Primitives.The four memory-hard functions
we evaluate (Argon2i, Balloon, Catena-BRG, Catena-DBG) are all essentially
modes of operation for an underlying cryptographic hash function. The choice
of the underlying hash function has implications for the performance and the
security of the overall construction. To be conservative, we instantiate all of the
algorithms we evaluate with the Blake2b as the underlying hash function [10].
Memory-hard functions going back at least as far as scrypt [68] have used
reduced-round hash functions as their underlying cryptographic building block.
Following this tradition, the Argon2i speciﬁcation proposes using a new and very
fast reduced-round hash function as its core cryptographic primitive. Since the
Argon2i hash function does not satisfy basic properties of a traditional crypto-
graphic hash function (e.g., it is not collision resistant), modeling it as a random
oracle feels particularly problematic. Since our goal in this work is to analyze
memory-hard functions with provable security guarantees, we instantiate the
memory-hard functions we evaluate with traditional cryptographic hashes for
the purposes of this evaluation.
That said, we stress that the Balloon construction is agnostic to the choice
of underlying hash function—it is a mode of operation for a cryptographic hash
function—and users of the Balloon construction may instantiate it with a faster
reduced-round hash function (e.g., scrypt’s BlockMix or Argon2i’s compression
function) if they so desire.
6.2 Authentication Throughput
The goal of a memory-hard password hash function is touse as much working
space as possible as quickly as possibleover the course of its computation. To
evaluate the eﬀectiveness of the Balloon algorithm on this metric, we measured
the rate at which a server can check passwords (in hashes per second) for various
buﬀer sizes on a single core.
Figure 5 shows the minimum buﬀer size required to compute each memory-
hard function with high probability with no computational slowdown, for a va-
riety of password hashing functions. We set the block size of the construction
18

to be equal to the block size of the underlying compression function, to avoid
the issues discussed in Appendix B.3. The charted results for Argon2i incor-
porate the fact that an adversary can compute many-pass Argon2i (v.1.2.1) in
a factor of e ≈ 2.72 less working space than the defender must allocate for
the computation and can compute single-pass Argon2i with a factor of four
less space (see Section 4). For comparison, we also plot the space usage of two
non-memory-hard password hashing functions, bcrypt [75] (with cost= 12) and
PBKDF2-SHA512 [49] (with105 iterations).
16 KiB 1 MiB 64 MiB
Minimum buﬀer size required
10−1
100
101
102
103
104
105
Hashes/sec (one core)
PBKDF2bcrypt
Better
Balloon ( r = 8)
Argon2i ( r = 8)
Catena DBG ( r = 7)
16 KiB 1 MiB 64 MiB
Minimum buﬀer size required
10−1
100
101
102
103
104
105
Hashes/sec (one core)
PBKDF2bcrypt
Better
Catena BRG
Balloon ( r = 1)
Argon2i ( r = 1)
“Strong” Security “Normal” Security
Fig.5: The Balloon algorithm outperforms Argon2i and Catena DBG for many
settings of the security parameters, and Balloon is competitive with Catena
BRG. We instantiate Argon2i, Balloon, and Catena with Blake2b as the under-
lying cryptographic hash function.
If we assume that an authentication server must perform 100 hashes per
secondperfour-coremachine,Figure5showsthatitwouldbepossibletouseone-
round Balloon hashing with a 2 MiB buﬀer or eight-round Balloon hashing with
a 256 KiB buﬀer. At the same authentication rate, Argon2i (instantiated with
Blake2b as the underlying cryptographic hash function) requires the attacker
to use a smaller buﬀer—roughly 1.5 MiB for the one-pass variant. Thus, with
Balloon hashing we simultaneously get better performance than Argon2i and
stronger memory-hardness guarantees.
19

16 KiB 256 KiB 4 MiB
Buﬀer size (bytes)
225
226
Bytes written/sec
Blake2b
ECHO
SHA-3
SHA-512
Fig.6: Throughput for the Balloon algorithm when instantiated with diﬀerent
compression functions. The dotted lines indicate the sizes of the L1, L2, and L3
caches on our test machine.
6.3 Compression Function
Finally, Figure 6 shows the result of instantiating the Balloon algorithm con-
struction with four diﬀerent standard cryptographic hash functions: SHA-3 [18],
Blake2b [10], SHA-512, and ECHO (a SHA-3 candidate that exploits the AES-NI
instructions) [15]. The SHA-3 function (with rate= 1344) operates on 1344-bit
blocks, and we conﬁgure the other hash functions to use 512-bit blocks.
On thex-axis, we plot the buﬀer size used in the Balloon function and on the
y-axis, we plot the rate at which the Balloon function ﬁlls memory, in bytes of
written per second. As Figure 6 demonstrates, Blake2b and ECHO outperform
the SHA functions by a bit less than a factor of two.
7 Related Work
Password Hashing.The problem of how to securely store passwords on shared
computer systems is nearly as old as the systems themselves. In a 1974 article,
Evans et al. described the principle of storing passwords under a hard-to-invert
function [40]. A few years later, Robert Morris and Ken Thompson presented
the now-standard notion of passwordsalts and explained how to store passwords
under a moderately hard-to-compute one-way function to increase the cost of
dictionary attacks [59]. Their DES-based “crypt” design became the standard
for password storage for over a decade [55] and even has a formal analysis by
Wagner and Goldberg [90].
In 1989, Feldmeier and Karn found that hardware improvements had driven
the cost of brute-force password guessing attacks against DES crypt down by
ﬁve orders of magnitude since 1979 [41, 52]. Poul-Henning Kamp introduced the
20

costlier md5crypt to replace crypt, but hardware improvements also rendered
that design outmoded [31].
Provos and Mazières saw that, in the face of ever-increasing processor speeds,
any ﬁxed password hashing algorithm would eventually become easy to compute
and thus ineﬀective protection against dictionary attacks. Their solution, bcrypt,
is a password hashing scheme with a variable “hardness” parameter [75]. By pe-
riodically ratcheting up the hardness, a system administrator can keep the time
needed to compute a single hash roughly constant, even as hardware improves.
A remaining weakness of bcrypt is that it exercises only a small fraction of
the CPU’s resources—it barely touches the L2 and L3 caches during its execu-
tion [56]. To increase the cost of custom password-cracking hardware, Reinhold’s
HEKS hash [76] and Percival’s popular scrypt routine consume an adjustable
amount of storage space [68], in addition to time, as they compute a hash. Bal-
loon, like scrypt, aims to be hard to compute in little space. Unlike scrypt,
however, we require that our functions’ data access pattern be independent of
the password to avoid leaking information via cache-timing attacks [25, 62, 87]
(see also the attack in Appendix G.2). The Dogecoin and Litecoin [24] crypto-
currencies have incorporated scrypt as an ASIC-resistant proof-of-work function.
The recent Password Hashing Competition motivated the search for memory-
hard password-hashing functions that use data-independent memory access pat-
terns [64]. The Argon2 family of functions, which have excellent performance and
an appealingly simple design, won the competition [19]. The Argon2 functions
lack a theoretical analysis of the feasible time-space trade-oﬀs against them; us-
ing the same ideas we have used to analyze the Balloon function, we provide the
ﬁrst such result in Appendix F.
The Catena hash functions [42], which became ﬁnalists in the Password
Hashing Competition, are memory-hard functions whose analysis applies peb-
bling arguments to classic graph-theoretic results of Lengauer and Tarjan [54].
The Balloon analysis we provide gives a tighter time-space lower bounds than
Catena’s analysis can provide in many cases, and the Balloon algorithm outper-
forms the more robust of the two Catena algorithms (see Section 6). Biryokov
and Khovratovich demonstrated a serious ﬂaw in the security analysis of one
of the Catena variants, and they provide a corresponding attack against that
Catena variant [22].
The other competition ﬁnalists included a number of interesting designs that
diﬀer from ours in important ways. Makwa [73] supports oﬄoading the work of
password hashing to an untrusted server but is not memory-hard. Lyra [2] is a
memory-hard function but lacks proven space-time lower bounds. Yescrypt [69]
is an extension of scrypt and uses a password-dependent data access pattern.
Ren and Devadas [77] give an analysis of the Balloon algorithm using bi-
partite expanders, following the pebbling techniques of Paul and Tarjan [66].
Their results imply that an adversary that computes then-block r-round Bal-
loon function inn/8 space, must use at least2rn/c time to compute the func-
tion (for some constantc), with high probability in the random-oracle model.
We prove the stronger statement that an adversary’s space-time product must
21

satisfy: S·T ∈ Ω(n2) for almost all values ofS. Ren and Devadas also prove
statements showing that algorithms computing the Balloon functions eﬃciently
must use a certain amount of space atmany pointsduring their computation.
Our time-space lower bounds only show that the adversary must use a certain
amount of space asome pointduring the Balloon computation.
Other Studies of Password Protection.Concurrently with the design of hashing
schemes, there has been theoretical work from Bellare et al. on new security
deﬁnitions for password-based cryptography [13] and from Di Crescenzo et al.
on an analysis of passwords storage systems secure against adversaries that can
steal only a bounded number of bits of the password ﬁle [33]. Other ideas for
modifyingpasswordhashesincludethe key stretchingschemesofKelseyetal.[50]
(variants on iterated hashes), a proposal by Boyen to keep the hash iteration
count (e.g., time parameter in bcrypt) secret [26], a technique of Canetti et al.
for using CAPTCHAs in concert with hashes [28], and a proposal by Dürmuth
to use password hashing to do meaningful computation [34].
Parallel Memory-Hardness.In a recent line of work [3, 4, 5, 6, 8] has analyzed
memory-hard functions from a number of angles in the parallel random-oracle
model, introduced by Alwen and Serbinenko [8]. We discuss these very relevant
results at length in Section 5.1.
Memory-Bound Functions.Abadi et al. [1] introduced memory-bound functions
as more eﬀective alternatives to traditional proofs-of-work in heterogeneous com-
puting environments [11, 36]. These functions require many cache misses to com-
pute and, under the assumption that memory latencies are consistent across
computing platforms, they are roughly as hard to compute on a computation-
ally powerful device as on a computationally weak one. The theoretical analysis
of memory-bound functions represented one of the ﬁrst applications of pebbling
arguments to cryptography [35, 37].
Proofs of Space.Dziembowski et al. [38] and Ateniese et al. [9] study proofs-of-
space. In these protocols, the prover and veriﬁer agree on a large bitstring that
the prover is supposed to store. Later on, the prover can convince the veriﬁer that
the prover has stored some large string on disk, even if the veriﬁer does not store
the string herself. Spacemint proposes building a cryptocurrency based upon a
proof-of-space rather than a proof-of-work [63]. Ren and Devadas propose using
the problem of pebbling a Balloon graph as the basis for a proof of space [77].
Time-Space Trade-Oﬀs.The techniques we use to analyze Balloon draws on
extensive prior work on computational time-space trade-oﬀs. We use pebbling
arguments, which have seen application to register allocation problems [81], to
the analysis of the relationships between complexity classes [16, 29, 48, 85], and
to prior cryptographic constructions [37, 38, 39, 42]. Pebbling has also been a
topic of study in its own right [54, 67]. Savage’s text gives a clear introduction
to graph pebbling [80] and Nordström surveys the vast body of pebbling results
in depth [61].
22

8 Conclusion
We have introduced the Balloon password hashing algorithm. The Balloon algo-
rithm is provably memory-hard (in the random-oracle model against sequential
adversaries), exhibits a password-independent memory access pattern, and meets
or exceeds the performance of the fastest heuristically secure schemes. Using a
novel combinatorial pebbling argument, we have demonstrated that password-
hashing algorithms can have memory-hardness proofs without sacriﬁcing prac-
ticality.
This work raises a number of open questions:
–Are there eﬃcient methods to defend against cache attacks on scrypt (Ap-
pendix G.2)? Could a special-purpose ORAM scheme help [44]?
–Are there practical memory-hard functions with password-independent ac-
cess patterns that retain their memory-hardness properties under parallel
attacks [8]? The recent work of Alwen et al. [4] is promising, though it is still
unclear whether the pROM-secure constructions will be competitive with
Balloon for concrete settings of the parameters.
–Is it possible to build hardware that eﬀectively implements the pROM at-
tacks [3, 4, 5] against Argon2i and Balloon at realistic parameter sizes? What
eﬃciency gain would this pROM hardware have over a sequential ASIC at
attacking these constructions? Are these parallel attacks still practical in
hardware when the function’s memory-access pattern depends on the salt
(as Balloon’s access pattern does)?
Acknowledgements. Ling Ren pointed out a critical error in the proceedings
version of Lemma 7 and spent an extraordinary amount of time helping us ﬁnd
a way to ﬁx it. We would like to our anonymous reviewers for their helpful
comments. We also thank Josh Benaloh, Joe Bonneau, Greg Hill, Ali Mash-
tizadeh, David Mazières, Yan Michalevsky, Bryan Parno, Greg Valiant, Riad
Wahby, Keith Winstein, David Wu, Sergey Yekhanin, and Greg Zaverucha for
comments on early versions of this work. This work was funded in part by an
NDSEG Fellowship, NSF, DARPA, a grant from ONR, and the Simons Founda-
tion. Opinions, ﬁndings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this
material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reﬂect the views of
DARPA.
23

Bibliography
[1] Abadi, M., Burrows, M., Manasse, M., Wobber, T.: Moderately hard,
memory-bound functions. ACM Transactions on Internet Technology 5(2),
299–327 (2005)
[2] Almeida, L.C., Andrade, E.R., Barreto, P.S.L.M., Simplicio Jr., M.A.: Lyra:
Password-based key derivation with tunable memory and processing costs.
Journal of Cryptographic Engineering 4(2), 75–89 (2014)
[3] Alwen, J., Blocki, J.: Eﬃciently computing data-independent memory-hard
functions. In: CRYPTO (2016)
[4] Alwen, J., Blocki, J.: Towards practical attacks on Argon2i and Bal-
loon Hashing. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2016/759 (2016), http:
//eprint.iacr.org/2016/759
[5] Alwen, J., Blocki, J., Pietrzak, K.: The pebbling complexity of depth-robust
graphs. Manuscript (Personal Communication) (2016)
[6] Alwen, J., Chen, B., Kamath, C., Kolmogorov, V., Pietrzak, K., Tessaro,
S.: On the complexity of scrypt and proofs of space in the parallel random
oracle model. In: EUROCRYPT 2016, pp. 358–387. Springer (2016)
[7] Alwen, J., Chen, B., Kamath, C., Kolmogorov, V., Pietrzak, K., Tessaro,
S.: On the complexity of scrypt and proofs of space in the parallel random
oracle model. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2016/100 (2016), http:
//eprint.iacr.org/
[8] Alwen, J., Serbinenko, V.: High parallel complexity graphs and memory-
hard functions. In: STOC. pp. 595–603 (2015)
[9] Ateniese, G., Bonacina, I., Faonio, A., Galesi, N.: Proofs of space: When
space is of the essence. In: Security and Cryptography for Networks, pp.
538–557. Springer (2014)
[10] Aumasson, J.P., Neves, S., Wilcox-O’Hearn, Z., Winnerlein, C.: BLAKE2:
simpler, smaller, fast as MD5. In: Applied Cryptography and Network Se-
curity. pp. 119–135. Springer (2013)
[11] Back, A.: Hashcash–a denial of service counter-measure. http://www.
cypherspace.org/hashcash/ (May 1997), accessed 9 November 2015
[12] Bellare, M., Boldyreva, A., Palacio, A.: An uninstantiable random-oracle-
model scheme for a hybrid-encryption problem. In: EUROCRYPT 2004. pp.
171–188. Springer (2004)
[13] Bellare, M., Ristenpart, T., Tessaro, S.: Multi-instance security and its
application to password-based cryptography. In: CRYPTO, pp. 312–329.
Springer (2012)
[14] Bellare, M., Rogaway, P.: Random oracles are practical: A paradigm for
designing eﬃcient protocols. In: CCS. pp. 62–73. ACM (1993)
[15] Benadjila, R., Billet, O., Gilbert, H., Macario-Rat, G., Peyrin, T., Robshaw,
M., Seurin, Y.: SHA-3 proposal: ECHO. Submission to NIST (updated)
(2009)

[16] Bennett, C.H.: Time/space trade-oﬀs for reversible computation. SIAM
Journal on Computing 18(4), 766–776 (1989)
[17] Bernstein, D.J., Lange, T.: Non-uniform cracks in the concrete: the power
of free precomputation. In: ASIACRYPT, pp. 321–340. Springer (2013)
[18] Bertoni, G., Daemen, J., Peeters, M., Van Assche, G.: Keccak sponge func-
tion family. Submission to NIST (Round 2) (2009)
[19] Biryukov, A., Dinu, D., Khovratovich, D.: Argon2 design document (version
1.2.1) (Oct 2015)
[20] Biryukov, A., Dinu, D., Khovratovich, D.: Fast and tradeoﬀ-resilient
memory-hard functions for cryptocurrencies and password hashing. Cryp-
tology ePrint Archive, Report 2015/430 (2015), http://eprint.iacr.org/
[21] Biryukov, A., Dinu, D., Khovratovich, D.: Argon2 design document (version
1.3) (Feb 2016)
[22] Biryukov, A., Khovratovich, D.: Tradeoﬀ cryptanalysis of memory-hard
functions. In: ASIACRYPT. pp. 633–657. Springer (2015)
[23] Bitcoin wiki - mining comparison. https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Mining_
hardware_comparison
[24] Bonneau, J., Miller, A., Clark, J., Narayanan, A., Kroll, J.A., Felten, E.W.:
SoK: Research perspectives and challenges for Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies.
In: Symposium on Security and Privacy. IEEE (May 2015)
[25] Bonneau, J., Mironov, I.: Cache-collision timing attacks against AES. In:
CHES 2006, pp. 201–215. Springer (2006)
[26] Boyen, X.: Halting password puzzles. In: USENIX Security (2007)
[27] Canetti, R., Goldreich, O., Halevi, S.: The Random Oracle Methodology,
revisited. Journal of the ACM 51(4), 557–594 (2004)
[28] Canetti, R., Halevi, S., Steiner, M.: Mitigating dictionary attacks on
password-protected local storage. In: CRYPTO 2006, pp. 160–179. Springer
(2006)
[29] Chan, S.M.: Just a pebble game. In: IEEE Conference on Computational
Complexity. pp. 133–143. IEEE (2013)
[30] Coron, J., Dodis, Y., Malinaud, C., Puniya, P.: Merkle-damgård revisited:
How to construct a hash function. In: CRYPTO. pp. 430–448 (2005)
[31] CVE-2012-3287: md5crypt has insuﬃcient algorithmic complexity.
http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2012-3287 (2012),
accessed 9 November 2015
[32] Damgård, I.B.: A design principle for hash functions. In: CRYPTO. pp.
416–427 (1989)
[33] Di Crescenzo, G., Lipton, R., Walﬁsh, S.: Perfectly secure password pro-
tocols in the bounded retrieval model. In: Theory of Cryptography, pp.
225–244. Springer (2006)
[34] Dürmuth, M.: Useful password hashing: how to waste computing cycles with
style. In: New Security Paradigms Workshop. pp. 31–40. ACM (2013)
[35] Dwork,C.,Goldberg,A.,Naor,M.:Onmemory-boundfunctionsforﬁghting
spam. In: CRYPTO, pp. 426–444. Springer (2003)
[36] Dwork, C., Naor, M.: Pricing via processing or combatting junk mail. In:
CRYPTO 1992. pp. 139–147. Springer (1993)
25

[37] Dwork, C., Naor, M., Wee, H.: Pebbling and proofs of work. In: CRYPTO.
pp. 37–54 (2005)
[38] Dziembowski, S., Faust, S., Kolmogorov, V., Pietrzak, K.: Proofs of space.
In: CRYPTO (2015)
[39] Dziembowski, S., Kazana, T., Wichs, D.: One-time computable self-erasing
functions. In: Theory of Cryptography, pp. 125–143. Springer (2011)
[40] Evans Jr, A., Kantrowitz, W., Weiss, E.: A user authentication scheme not
requiring secrecy in the computer. Communications of the ACM 17(8), 437–
442 (1974)
[41] Feldmeier, D.C., Karn, P.R.: UNIX password security–ten years later. In:
CRYPTO 1989. pp. 44–63. Springer (1990)
[42] Forler, C., Lucks, S., Wenzel, J.: Memory-demanding password scrambling.
In: ASIACRYPT, pp. 289–305. Springer (2014)
[43] Garay, J., Johnson, D., Kiayias, A., Yung, M.: Resource-based corruptions
and the combinatorics of hidden diversity. In: ITCS. pp. 415–428. ACM
(2013)
[44] Goldreich, O., Ostrovsky, R.: Software protection and simulation on obliv-
ious RAMs. Journal of the ACM 43(3), 431–473 (1996)
[45] Goldwasser, S., Kalai, Y.T.: On the (in)security of the Fiat-Shamir
paradigm. In: FOCS. pp. 102–113. IEEE (2003)
[46] Groza, B., Warinschi, B.: Revisiting diﬃculty notions for client puzzles and
DoS resilience. In: Information Security, pp. 39–54. Springer (2012)
[47] Ho, S.: Costco, Sam’s Club, others halt photo sites over possi-
ble breach. http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/07/21/us-cyberattack-
retail-idUSKCN0PV00520150721 (Jul 2015), accessed 9 November 2015
[48] Hopcroft, J., Paul, W., Valiant, L.: On time versus space. Journal of the
ACM (JACM) 24(2), 332–337 (1977)
[49] Kaliski, B.: PKCS #5: Password-based cryptography speciﬁcation, version
2.0. IETF Network Working Group, RFC 2898 (Sep 2000)
[50] Kelsey, J., Schneier, B., Hall, C., Wagner, D.: Secure applications of low-
entropy keys. In: Information Security, pp. 121–134. Springer (1998)
[51] Kirk, J.: Internet address overseer ICANN resets passwords after
website breach. http://www.pcworld.com/article/2960592/security/icann-
resets-passwords-after-website-breach.html (Aug 2015), accessed 9 Novem-
ber 2015
[52] Klein,D.V.:Foilingthecracker:Asurveyof,andimprovementsto,password
security. In: Proceedings of the 2nd USENIX Security Workshop. pp. 5–14
(1990)
[53] Krantz, L.: Harvard says data breach occurred in June. http:
//www.bostonglobe.com/metro/2015/07/01/harvard-announces-data-
breach/pqzk9IPWLMiCKBl3IijMUJ/story.html (Jul 2015), accessed 9
November 2015
[54] Lengauer, T., Tarjan, R.E.: Asymptotically tight bounds on time-space
trade-oﬀs in a pebble game. Journal of the ACM 29(4), 1087–1130 (1982)
[55] Leong, P., Tham, C.: UNIX password encryption considered insecure. In:
USENIX Winter. pp. 269–280 (1991)
26

[56] Malvoni, K., Designer, S., Knezovic, J.: Are your passwords safe: Energy-
eﬃcientbcryptcrackingwithlow-costparallelhardware.In:USENIXWork-
shop on Oﬀensive Technologies (2014)
[57] Menezes, A.J., Van Oorschot, P.C., Vanstone, S.A.: Handbook of Applied
Cryptography. CRC press (1996)
[58] Merkle, R.C.: One way hash functions and DES. In: CRYPTO. pp. 428–446
(1989)
[59] Morris, R., Thompson, K.: Password security: A case history. Communica-
tions of the ACM 22(11), 594–597 (1979)
[60] Nielsen, J.B.: Separating random oracle proofs from complexity theoretic
proofs: The non-committing encryption case. In: CRYPTO 2002, pp. 111–
126. Springer (2002)
[61] Nordström, J.: New wine into old wineskins: A survey of some pebbling clas-
sics with supplemental results. http://www.csc.kth.se/~jakobn/research/
PebblingSurveyTMP.pdf (Mar 2015), accessed 9 November 2015
[62] Osvik, D.A., Shamir, A., Tromer, E.: Cache attacks and countermeasures:
the case of AES. In: CT-RSA 2006, pp. 1–20. Springer (2006)
[63] Park, S., Pietrzak, K., Alwen, J., Fuchsbauer, G., Gazi, P.: Spacemint:
a cryptocurrency based on proofs of space. Tech. rep., Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2015/528 (2015)
[64] Password hashing competition. https://password-hashing.net/
[65] Paterson, M.S., Hewitt, C.E.: Comparative schematology. In: Record of the
Project MAC conference on concurrent systems and parallel computation.
pp. 119–127. ACM (1970)
[66] Paul, W.J., Tarjan, R.E.: Time-space trade-oﬀs in a pebble game. Acta
Informatica 10(2), 111–115 (1978)
[67] Paul, W.J., Tarjan, R.E., Celoni, J.R.: Space bounds for a game on graphs.
Mathematical Systems Theory 10(1), 239–251 (1976)
[68] Percival, C.: Stronger key derivation via sequential memory-hard functions.
In: BSDCan (May 2009)
[69] Peslyak, A.: yescrypt. https://password-hashing.net/submissions/specs/
yescrypt-v2.pdf (Oct 2015), accessed 13 November 2015
[70] Peterson, A.: E-Trade notiﬁes 31,000 customers that their contact info may
have been breached in 2013 hack. https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/
the-switch/wp/2015/10/09/e-trade-notiﬁes-31000-customers-that-their-
contact-info-may-have-been-breached-in-2013-hack/ (Oct 2015), accessed
9 November 2015
[71] Pippenger, N.: A time-space trade-oﬀ. Journal of the ACM (JACM) 25(3),
509–515 (1978)
[72] Pippenger, N., Fischer, M.J.: Relations among complexity measures. Jour-
nal of the ACM 26(2), 361–381 (1979)
[73] Pornin, T.: The Makwa password hashing function. http://www.bolet.org/
makwa/ (Apr 2015), accessed 13 November 2015
[74] Privacy Rights Clearinghouse: Chronology of data breaches. http://www.
privacyrights.org/data-breach, accessed 9 November 2015
27

[75] Provos, N., Mazières, D.: A future-adaptable password scheme. In: USENIX
Annual Technical Conference. pp. 81–91 (1999)
[76] Reinhold, A.: HEKS: A family of key stretching algorithms (Draft G).
http://world.std.com/~reinhold/HEKSproposal.html (Jul 2001), accessed
13 November 2015
[77] Ren, L., Devadas, S.: Proof of space from stacked expanders. Cryptology
ePrint Archive, Report 2016/333 (2016), http://eprint.iacr.org/
[78] Ristenpart, T., Tromer, E., Shacham, H., Savage, S.: Hey, you, get oﬀ of
my cloud: exploring information leakage in third-party compute clouds. In:
CCS. pp. 199–212. ACM (2009)
[79] Rogaway, P.: Formalizing human ignorance. In: VIETCRYPT, pp. 211–228.
Springer (2006)
[80] Savage, J.E.: Models of computation: Exploring the Power of Computing.
Addison-Wesley (1998)
[81] Sethi, R.: Complete register allocation problems. SIAM journal on Com-
puting 4(3), 226–248 (1975)
[82] Smith, A., Zhang, Y.: Near-linear time, leakage-resilient key evolution
schemes from expander graphs. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2013/864 (2013)
[83] Stebila, D., Kuppusamy, L., Rangasamy, J., Boyd, C., Nieto, J.G.: Stronger
diﬃculty notions for client puzzles and denial-of-service-resistant protocols.
In: CT-RSA, pp. 284–301. Springer (2011)
[84] Takala, R.: UVA site back online after chinese hack. http:
//www.washingtonexaminer.com/uva-site-back-online-after-chinese-
hack/article/2570383 (Aug 2015), accessed 9 November 2015
[85] Tompa, M.: Time-space tradeoﬀs for computing functions, using connectiv-
ity properties of their circuits. In: STOC. pp. 196–204. ACM (1978)
[86] Tracy, A.: In wake of T-Mobile and Experian data breach, John Legere
did what all CEOs should do after a hack. http://www.forbes.com/sites/
abigailtracy/2015/10/02/in-wake-of-t-mobile-and-experian-data-breach-
john-legere-did-what-all-ceos-should-do-after-a-hack/ (Oct 2015), accessed
9 November 2015
[87] Tromer, E., Osvik, D.A., Shamir, A.: Eﬃcient cache attacks on AES, and
countermeasures. Journal of Cryptology 23(1), 37–71 (2010)
[88] Valiant, L.G.: Graph-theoretic arguments in low-level complexity. In:
Gruska, J. (ed.) Mathematical Foundations of Computer Science, Lecture
Notes in Computer Science, vol. 53, pp. 162–176. Springer Berlin Heidelberg
(1977)
[89] Vaughan-Nichols, S.J.: Password site LastPass warns of data breach.
http://www.zdnet.com/article/lastpass-password-security-site-hacked/
(Jun 2015), accessed 9 November 2015
[90] Wagner, D., Goldberg, I.: Proofs of security for the Unix password hashing
algorithm. In: ASIACRYPT 2000, pp. 560–572. Springer (2000)
28

A Details of the Attack on Argon2
In this section, we provide a detailed analysis of the attack on Argon2i that we
introduced in Section 4.
The goal of the attack algorithm is to compute Argon2i in the same number
of time steps as the naïve algorithm uses to compute the function, while using a
constant factor less space than the naïve algorithm does. In this way, an attacker
mounting a dictionary attack against a list of passwords hashed with Argon2i
can do so at less cost (in terms of the space-time product) than the Argon2i
speciﬁcation claimed possible.
Argon2i has one-pass and many-pass variants and our attack applies to both;
the many-pass variant is recommended in the speciﬁcation. We ﬁrst analyze the
attack on the one-pass variant and then analyze the attack on the many-pass
variant.
We are interested in the attack algorithm’s expected space usage at time step
t—call this functionS(t).14
Analysis of One-Pass Argon2i.At each step of the one-pass Argon2i algo-
rithm, the expected space usageS(t) is equal to the number of memory blocks
generated so far minus the expected number of blocks in memory that will never
be used after timet. Let Ai,t be the event that blocki is never needed after
time stept in the computation. ThenS(t) = t−∑t
i=1 Pr[Ai,t].
To ﬁndS(t) explicitly, we need to compute the probability that blocki is
never used after timet. We know that the probability that blocki is never used
after timet is equal to the probability that blocki is not used at timet + 1 and
is not used at timet + 2 and [...] and is not used at timen. LetUi,t denote the
event that blocki is unused at timet. Then:
Pr [Ai,t] = Pr
[ n⋂
t′=t+1
Ui,t′
]
=
n∏
t′=t+1
Pr[Ui,t′] (1)
The equality on the right-hand side comes from the fact thatUi,t′ andUi,t′′ are
independent events fort′⁄=t′′.
To compute the probability that blocki is not used at time t′, consider
that there aret′− 1 blocks to choose from andt′− 2 of them arenot block i:
Pr[Ui,t′] = t′−2
t′−1. Plugging this back into Equation 1, we get:
Pr [Ai,t] =
n∏
t′=t+1
(t′− 2
t′− 1
)
= t− 1
n− 1
14 As described in Section 4.2, the contents of blocki in Argon2i are derived from the
contents of blocki− 1 and a block chosen at random from the setri←
R
{1,...,i − 1}.
Throughout our analysis, all probabilities are taken over the random choices of the
ri values.
29

Now we substitute this back into our original expression forS(t):
S(t) = t−
t∑
i=1
(t− 1
n− 1
)
=t− t(t− 1)
n− 1
Taking the derivativeS′(t) and setting it to zero allows us to compute the value
t for which the expected storage is maximized. The maximum is att =n/2 and
the expected number of blocks required isS(n/2)≈n/4.
Larger in-degree. A straightforward extension of this analysis handles the
case in whichδ random blocks—instead of one—are hashed together with the
prior block at each step of the algorithm. Our analysis demonstrates that, even
with this strategy, single-pass Argon2i is vulnerable to pre-computation attacks.
The maximum space usage comes att∗ =n/(δ + 1)1/δ, and the expected space
usage over timeS(t) is:
S(t)≈t− tδ+1
nδ so S(t∗)≈ δ
(δ + 1)1+1/δn .
Analysis of Many-Pass Argon2i. One idea for increasing the minimum
memory consumption of Argon2i is to increase the number of passes that the
algorithm takes over the memory. For example, the Argon2 speciﬁcation pro-
poses taking three passes over the memory to protect against certain time-space
tradeoﬀs. Unfortunately, even aftermany passes over the memory, the Argon2i
algorithm sketched above still uses many fewer thann blocks of memory, in
expectation, at each time step.
To investigate the space usage of the many-pass Argon2i algorithm, ﬁrst
consider that the space usage will be maximized at some point in the middle
of its computation—not in the ﬁrst or last passes. At some time stept in the
middle of its computation the algorithm will have at mostn memory blocks in
storage, but the algorithm can delete any of thesen blocks that it will never
need after timet.
At each time step, the algorithm adds a new block to the end of the buﬀer
and deletes the ﬁrst block. At any one point in the algorithm’s execution, there
will be at mostn blocks of memory in storage. If we freeze the execution of the
Argon2i algorithm in the middle of its execution, we can inspect then blocks it
has stored in memory. Call the ﬁrst block “stored block 1” and the last block
“stored blockn.”
Let Bi,t denote the event that stored blocki is never needed after timet.
Then we claimPr[Bi,t] = ( n−1
n )i. To see the logic behind this calculation: notice
that, at timet, the ﬁrst stored block in the buﬀer can be accessed at timet + 1
but by timet + 2, the ﬁrst stored block will have been deleted from the buﬀer.
Similarly, the second stored block in the buﬀer at timet can be accessed at time
t + 1 ort + 2, but nott + 3 (since by then stored block2 will have been deleted
from the buﬀer). Similarly, stored blocki can be accessed at time steps(t + 1),
(t + 2), ..., (t +i) but not at time step(t +i + 1).
30

The total storage required is then:
S(t) = n−
n∑
i=1
E[Bi,t] = n−
n∑
i=1
(n− 1
n
)i
≈n−n
(
1− 1
e
)
.
Thus, even after many passes over the memory, Argon2i can still be computed
in roughlyn/e space with no time penalty.
B Pebble Games
In this section, we introduce pebble games and explain how to use them to
analyze the Balloon algorithm.
B.1 Rules of the Game
Thepebble gameis a one-player game that takes place on a directed acyclic graph
G = (V,E ). If there is an edge(u,v )∈ E, we say thatv is asuccessor of u in
the directed graph and thatu is apredecessorof v. As usual, we refer to nodes
of the graph with in-degree zero assourcenodes and nodes with out-degree zero
as sink nodes—edges point from sources to sinks.
A pebbling game, deﬁned next, represents a computation. The pebbles rep-
resent intermediate values stored in memory.
Deﬁnition 2 (Pebbling game).A pebbling game on a directed acyclic graph
G = (V,E ) consists of a sequence of player moves, where each move is one of
the following:
–place a pebble on a source vertex,
–remove a pebble from any pebbled vertex, or
–place a pebble on a non-source vertexif and only ifall of its predecessor
vertices are pebbled.
The game ends when a pebble is placed on a designated sink vertex. A sequence
of pebbling moves islegal if each move in the sequence obeys the rules of the
game.
The pebble game typically begins with no pebbles on the graph, but in our
analysis we will occasionally deﬁne partial pebblings that begin in a particular
conﬁgurationC, in which some some vertices are already pebbled.
The pebble game is a useful model ofoblivious computation, in which the
data-access pattern is independent of the value being computed [72]. Edges in
the graph correspond to data dependencies, while vertices correspond to inter-
mediate values needed in the computation. Source nodes represent input values
(which have no dependencies) and sink nodes represent output values. The peb-
bles on the graph correspond to values stored in the computer’s memory at a
point in the computation. The three possible moves in the pebble game then
correspond to: (1) loading an input value into memory, (2) deleting a value
stored in memory, and (3) computing an intermediate value from the values of
its dependencies.
31

B.2 Pebbling in the Random-Oracle Model
Dwork, Naor, and Wee [37] demonstrated that there is a close relationship be-
tween the pebbling problem on a graph G and the problem of computing a
certain functionfG in the random-oracle model [14]. This observation became
the basis for the design of the Catena memory-hard hash function family [42]
and is useful for our analysis as well.
Since the relationship betweenG andfG will be important for our construc-
tion and security proofs, we will summarize here the transformation of Dwork
et al. [37], as modiﬁed by Alwen and Serbinenko [8]. The transformation from
directed acyclic graphG = (V,E ) to functionfG works by assigning alabel to
each vertexv∈V, with the aid of a cryptographic hash functionH. We write
the vertex set ofG topologically{v1,...v |V|} such thatv1 is a source andv|V|
is a sink and, to simplify the discussion, we assume thatG has a unique sink
node.
Deﬁnition 3 (Labeling).Let G = (V,E ) be a directed graph with maximum
in-degree δ and a unique sink vertex, letx∈{ 0, 1}k be a string, and letH :
Z|V|×
(
{0, 1}k∪{⊥}
)δ
→{ 0, 1}k be a function, modeled as a random oracle.
We deﬁne the labeling ofG relative toH and x as:
labelx(vi) =
{
H(i,x,⊥,..., ⊥) if vi is a source
H(i, labelx(z1),..., labelx(zδ)) o.w.
where z1,...,z δ are the predecessors ofvi in the graphG. If vi has fewer than
δ predecessors, a special “empty” label (⊥) is used as placeholder input toH.
The labeling of the graphG proceeds from the sources to the unique sink
node: ﬁrst, the sources ofG receive labels, then their successors receive labels,
and so on until ﬁnally the unique sink node receives a label. To convert a graph
G into a functionfG :{0, 1}k→{ 0, 1}k, we deﬁnefG(x) as the function that
outputs the label of the unique sink vertex under the labeling ofG relative to a
hash functionH and an inputx.
Dwork et al. demonstrate that any valid pebbling of the graphG with S
pebbles andT placements immediately yields a method for computingfG with
Sk bits of space andT queries to the random oracle. Thus, upper bounds on
the pebbling cost of a graphG yield upper bounds on the computation cost of
the functionfG. In the other direction, they show that with high probability, an
algorithm for computingfG with spaceSk andT random oracle queries yields a
pebbling strategy forG using roughlyS pebbles andT placements [37, Lemma
1].15 Thus, lower bounds on the pebbling cost of the graphG yield lower bounds
on the space and time complexity of the functionfG.
15 This piece of the argument is subtle, since an adversarial algorithm for comput-
ing fG could store parts of labels, might try to guess labels, or might use some
other arbitrary strategy to compute the labeling. Showing thatevery algorithm that
computing fG with high probability yields a pebbling requires handling all of these
possible cases.
32

We use a version of their result due to Dziembowski et al. [39]. The proba-
bilities in the following theorems are over the choice of the random oracle and
the randomness of the adversary.
Theorem 4 (Adapted from Theorem 4.2 of Dziembowski et al. [39])Let
G, H, and k be as in Deﬁnition 3. LetA be an adversary making at mostT
random-oracle queries during its computation offG(x). Then, given the sequence
ofA’s random oracle queries, it is possible to construct a pebbling strategy for
G with the following properties:
1. The pebbling is legal with probability1−T/ 2k.
2. IfA uses at most Sk bits of storage then, for anyλ > 0, the number of
pebbles used is at most Sk+λ
k−log2T with probability 1− 2−λ.
3. The number of pebble placements (i.e., moves in the pebbling) is at mostT.
Proof. The ﬁrst two parts are a special case of Theorem 4.2 of Dziembowski et
al. [39]. To apply their theorem, consider the running time and space usage of
the algorithmAsmall they deﬁne, settingc = 0. The third part of the theorem
follows immediately from the pebbling they construct in the proof: there is at
most one pebble placement per oracle call. There are at mostT oracle calls, so
the total number of placements is bounded byT.
Informally, the lemma states that an algorithm usingSk bits of space will
rarely be able to generate a sequence of random oracle queries whose corre-
sponding pebbling places more thanS pebbles on the graph or makes an invalid
pebbling move.
The essential point, as captured in the following theorem, is that if we can
construct a graphG that takes a lot of time to pebble when using few pebbles,
then we can construct a functionfG that requires a lot of time to compute with
high probability when using small space, in the random oracle model.
Theorem 5 Let G and k be as in Deﬁnition 3 with the additional restriction
that there is no pebbling strategy forG usingS∗ pebbles andT∗ pebble placements,
whereT∗ is less than2k− 1. LetA be an algorithm that makesT random oracle
queries and usesσ bits of storage space. If
T <T∗ and σ <S∗(k− log2T∗)−k,
thenA correctly computesfG(·) with probability at mostT +1
2k .
Proof. Fix an algorithmA as in the statement of the theorem. By Theorem 4,
from a trace ofA’s execution we can extract a pebbling ofG that:
–is legal with probability at least1−T/ 2k,
–uses at most σ+k
k−log2T∗ <S∗ pebbles with probability at least1− 2−k, and
–makes at mostT pebble placements.
33

By construction ofG, there does not exist a pebbling ofG using S∗ pebbles
and T∗ pebble placements. Thus, whenever A succeeds at computing fG(·)
it must be that either (1) the pebbling we extract fromA is invalid, (2) the
pebbling we extract fromA uses more thanS∗ pebbles, or (3) the pebbling we
extract fromA uses more thanT∗ moves. From Theorem 4, the probability of
the ﬁrst event is at mostT/ 2k, the probability of the second event is at most
1/2k, and the probability of the third event is zero.
By the Union Bound, we ﬁnd that:
Pr[A succeeds]≤ Pr[pebbling is illegal]
+ Pr[pebbling uses>S∗ pebbles]
+ Pr[pebbling uses>T ∗ time steps].
Substituting in the probabilities of each of these events derived from Theo-
rem 4, we ﬁnd
Pr[A succeeds]≤ T
2k + 1
2k = T + 1
2k .
B.3 Dangers of the Pebbling Paradigm
The beauty of the pebbling paradigm is that it allows us to reason about the
memory-hardness of certain functions by simply reasoning about the properties
of graphs. That said, applying the pebbling model requires some care. For
... ...
...
Fig.7: A graph requiring n + 1 pebbles to pebble in the random-oracle model
(left) requires O(1) storage to compute when using a Merkle-Damgård hash
function (right).
example, it is common practice to model an inﬁnite-domain hash functionH :
{0, 1}∗→{ 0, 1}k as a random oracle and then to instantiateH with a concrete
hash function (e.g., SHA-256) in the actual construction.
When using a random oracle with an inﬁnitely large domain in this way, the
pebblinganalysiscangivemisleadingresults. ThereasonisthatTheorem4relies
on the fact that whenH is a random oracle, computing the valueH(x1,...,x n)
34

requires that the entire string(x1,...,x n) be written onto the oracle tape (i.e.,
be in memory) at the moment when the machine queries the oracle.
In practice, the hash functionH used to construct the labeling of the pebble
graph is not a random oracle, but is often a Merkle-Damgård-style hash func-
tion [32, 58] built from a two-to-one compression functionC :{0, 1}2k→{ 0, 1}k
as
H(x1,...,x n) = C(xn,C (xn−1,...,C (x1,⊥)... )).
If H is one such hash function, then the computation ofH(x1,...,x n) requires
at most aconstant number of blocks of storageon the work and oracle tapes at
any moment, since the Merkle-Damgård hash can be computed incrementally.
The bottom line is that pebbling lower bounds suggest that the labeling of
certain graphs, like the one depicted in Figure 7, requireΘ(n) blocks of storage
to compute with high probability in the random oracle model. However, when
H is a real Merkle-Damgård hash function, these functions actually take˜O(1)
space to compute. The use of incrementally computable compression functions
has led to actual security weaknesses in candidate memory-hard functions in the
past [20, Section 4.2], so these theoretical weaknesses have bearing on practice.
This failure of the random oracle model is one of the very few instances
in which apractical scheme that is proven secure in the random-oracle model
becomes insecure after replacing the random oracle with a concrete hash function
(other examples include [12, 27, 45, 60]). While prior works study variants of the
Merkle-Damgårdconstructionthatareindiﬀerentiablefromarandomoracle[30],
they do not factor these space usage issues into their designs.
To sidestep this issue entirely, we use the random oracle only to model com-
pression functions with a ﬁxed ﬁnite domain (i.e., two-to-one compression func-
tions) whose internal state size is as large as their output size. For example,
we model the compression function of SHA-512 as a random oracle, but do not
model the entire [inﬁnite-domain] SHA-512 function as a random oracle. When
we use a sponge function, like SHA-3 [18], we use it as a two-to-one compression
function, in which we extract only as many bits of output as the capacity of the
sponge.
C A Combinatorial Lemma on “Well-Spreadedness”
In this section, we prove a combinatorial lemma that we will need for the anal-
ysis of the Balloon functions. Throughout, we refer to an ordered multiset of
elements—which may contain duplicates—as a “list,” and an unordered set of
elements—which does not contain duplicates, as a “set.”
Let X ={X1,X 2,...,X m} be a list of integers written in non-decreasing
order, such that 1≤ Xi≤ n for allXi∈ X. The elements ofX partition the
integers from 0 to n into a collection of segments
(0,X 1], (X1,X 2], (X2,X 3], ... , (Xm−1,Xm].
If we remove some subset of the segments, we can ask: what is the total
length of the remaining segments? More formally, ﬁx some setS⊆ X. Then,
35

deﬁne thespreadof the listX after removingS as the sum of the lengths of the
segments deﬁned byX whose rightmost endpoints are not inS. Symbolically,
we can letX0 = 0 and deﬁne the spread as:
spreadS(X) =
∑
Xi∈X\S
(Xi−Xi−1).
For example, ifX = (2, 2, 4, 7), we have that:
spread{}(X) = (2− 0) + (2− 2) + (4− 2) + (7− 4) = 7
spread{7}(X) = (2− 0) + (2− 2) + (4− 2) = 4
spread{2,7}(X) = (4− 2) = 2
spread{2,4,7}(X) = 0
In computing spreadS(·), we remove all segments whose right endpoint falls
into the set S. If there are many such segments (i.e., as when we compute
spread{2}((2, 2, 4, 7)) = 5), we remove all of them.
We say that a list of integers iswell-spread if the spread of the list is larger
than a certain threshold, even after removing any subset of segments of a par-
ticular size.
Deﬁnition 6 (Well-Spread List).Let X be a list of integersX⊆{ 1,...,n }
and letσ be an integer such thatσ≤|X|. ThenX is (σ,ρ )-well-spread if for all
subsets S⊆X of sizeσ, spreadS(X)≥ρ.
So, for example, a listX of integers is(n/8,n/ 4)-well-spread if, for all setsS⊆X
of sizen/8, we have thatspreadS(X)≥n/4.
The following lemma demonstrates that a list of random integers is well-
spread with all but negligible probability.
Lemma 7 (Big Spread Lemma)For all positive integersδ≥ 3, ω≥ 2, and
n, and for all positive integersm such that 2ω <m< 2(2−ω+ 2ω
δ ) n
δe, a list ofδm
elements sampled independently and uniformly at random from{1,...,n } is an
(m,n/ 2ω)-well-spread set with probability at least1− 2ω+2· 2[(1−ω)δ
2 +ω]m
Lemma 7 states (very roughly) that if you divide the integers(1,...,n ) into
δm segments at random, and then remove the the m longest segments, the
remaining segments have length at leastn/2ω, with very high probability.
To prove Lemma 7, we need one related lemma. In the hypothesis of the
followinglemma, wechoose ddistinctintegersfrom {1,...,n }atrandomwithout
replacement, and we use these integers to break the range(1,...,n ) into d + 1
segments. The lemma states that iff is an arbitrary function of the lengths of
the segments, then the probability thatf takes on value1 is invariant under a
reordering of the segments.
Lemma 8 Let (R1,...,R d) be random variables representing integers sampled
uniformly, but without replacement, from{1,...,n }. Write the Rs in ascend-
ing order as (Y1,...,Y d), and let Y0 = 0 and Yd+1 = n. Next, deﬁne L =
36

(L1,...,L d+1), whereLi =Yi−Yi−1. Then, for all functionsf : Zd+1→{ 0, 1},
and for all permutationsπ on d + 1 elements,
Pr
[
f (L1,...,L d+1) = 1
]
= Pr
[
f (Lπ(1),...,L π(d+1)) = 1
]
.
Proof. For convenience, writeL = (L1,...,L d+1). For a permutationπ ond + 1
elements, letπ(L) = (Lπ(1),...,L π(d+1)). The random variableL can take on
any value𝓁∈ Zd+1 for any𝓁 such that∑
i𝓁i =n and Li > 0 for i∈{ 1,...,d }.
We can rewrite the probabilityPr[f (L) = 1] by summing over the possible values
of 𝓁:
Pr[f (L) = 1 ] =
∑
𝓁
Pr[f (L) = 1|L =𝓁 ]· Pr[L =𝓁],
=
∑
𝓁
Pr[f (π(L)) = 1|π(L) = 𝓁 ]· Pr[L =𝓁]. (2)
In the second step, we just renamed the variables on the right-hand side.
Now, we claim thatPr[L =𝓁] = Pr[π(L) = 𝓁]. To see this, we ﬁrst compute
the probability Pr[L = 𝓁]. This is just the probability of choosing a particular
set ofRs that corresponds to the lengths in𝓁 (up to reordering), so
Pr[L =𝓁] = d!· Pr
(R1,...,Rd)


(R1 =𝓁1)∧
(R2 =𝓁1 +𝓁2)∧
(R3 =𝓁1 +𝓁2 +𝓁3) ∧...

.
Since 𝓁i > 0 for all i ∈ {1,...,d }, we are asking for the probability that
(R1,...,R d) take on a particular set ofd distinct values. This probability is
1
n· 1
n− 1··· 1
n−d + 1 = (n−d)!
n! ,
so
Pr[L =𝓁] = d!(n−d)!
n! =
(n
d
)−1
.
Note that this probability is independent of𝓁, so we also have thatPr[π(L) =
𝓁] =
(n
d
)−1
. Finally, we substitute this last equation into (2) to get:
Pr[f (L) = 1 ] =
∑
𝓁
Pr[f (π(L)) = 1|π(L) = 𝓁 ]· Pr[π(L) = 𝓁]
= Pr[f (π(L)) = 1 ].
Having proved Lemma 8, we can return to prove Lemma 7.
37

Proof of Lemma 7.Let R = (R1,...,R δm) be integers sampled independently
and uniformly at random from{1,...,n }. We want to show that for all subsets
S⊆ R of size at mostm, spreadS(R)≥ n/2ω. To do so, we ﬁrst deﬁne a bad
event B, then show that bounding Pr[B] is enough to prove the lemma, and
ﬁnally we boundPr[B].
The Bad EventB. Write the integers inR in non-decreasing order as(X1,...,
Xδm), then deﬁneX0 = 0, Xδm+1 =n. Let the bad eventB be the event that
there exists a set S′ ⊆ {X1,...,X δm+1} of size at most (m + 1), such that∑
Xi∈S′(Xi−Xi−1)≥ (1− 2−ω)n.
We claim that whenever there exists a setS⊆ R of size at mostm that
causes spreadS(R) < n/2ω, then bad eventB must occur. To see this, assume
that such a “bad” setS exists. Then construct a setS′ = S∪{Xδm+1} of size
at mostm + 1. Then we compute
∑
Xi∈S′
(Xi−Xi−1) = n−Xδm +
∑
Xi∈S
(Xi−Xi−1) = n−
∑
Xi∈R\S
(Xi−Xi−1).
The last equality holds because∑
Xi∈R(Xi−Xi−1) =∑δm
i=1(Xi−Xi−1) = Xδm.
But, by deﬁnition ofS, spreadS(R) =∑
Xi∈R\S(Xi−Xi−1), and we know that
spreadS(R)<n/ 2ω, so we have that
∑
Xi∈S′
(Xi−Xi−1)≥ (1− 2−ω)n.
This establishes that bounding the probability of the bad eventB is enough to
prove the lemma.
Strategy to Bound Pr[B]. We now bound the probability of the bad event
B. To execute this analysis, let D be a random variable denoting the num-
ber of distinct integers in the list of random integersR. For any ﬁxed integer
d∗∈{ 1,...,δm }, we can write:
Pr[B] = Pr[B|D<d ∗]· Pr[D<d ∗] + Pr[B|D≥d∗]· Pr[D≥d∗]
≤ Pr[D<d ∗] + Pr[B|D≥d∗]. (3)
To bound Pr[B], we taked∗ = δm/2 and then bound the two probabilities on
the right-hand side.
Bounding Pr[D < d∗]. We now computePr[D < d∗]. The probability of this
event is at most the probability that we throwδm balls inton bins, and allδm
balls fall into a set ofd∗ =δm/2 bins.
Pr[D<d ∗]≤
(n
d∗
)(d∗
n
)δm
≤
(n·e
d∗
)d∗(d∗
n
)δm
=
(d∗
n
)δm−d∗
ed∗
. (4)
38

Recall thatd∗ =δm/2. By the hypothesis of the lemma,m< 2(1−ω+ 2ω
δ ) 2n
δe.
Therefore, δme/(2n)< 2(1−ω+ 2ω
δ ). Then from (4), we have:
Pr[D<d ∗]≤
(δme
2n
)δm/2
≤
(
2(1−ω+ 2ω
δ )
)δm/2
≤ 2[(1−ω)δ
2 +ω]m. (5)
Bounding Pr[B|D = d]. We now bound the probability of the bad eventB,
conditioned on there being exactlyd distinct integers in the listR, for some
d≥d∗.
Step 1: Consider sets of distinct elements.Recall that the bad eventB occurs
if there is a subsetS′⊆X = (X1,...,X δm+1) of size at most(m + 1), such that∑
Xi∈S′(Xi−Xi−1)≥ (1− 2−ω)n.
Whenever bad eventB occurs, there is also a subsetS′
dist of distinct integers
in X such thatS′
dist (a) also has this “bad” property and (b) has size at most
(m+1). Furthermore, if there exists one such setS′
dist with size less than(m+1),
there also exists a “bad” set of distinct elements with size exactly(m+1), as long
aslong asm + 1≤ d. (Since d≥ d∗ = δm/2, it always holds thatm + 1≤ d.)
So, we need only to bound the probability that there exists a bad subsetS′
dist
of distinct integers of size exactly(m + 1).
Step 2: Apply Lemma 8 to simplify the calculation.Write thed distinct integers
in R in ascending order asY = (Y1,...,Y d). We must bound the probability
that a size-(m + 1)subsetS′
dist⊆Y is bad. Fix a set of indicesI⊆{ 1,...,d + 1}
of size (m + 1). We bound the probability that the subsetS′
dist ={Yi|i∈I} is
bad.
Let f : Zd+1→{ 0, 1} be a function that returns1 if its ﬁrst(m + 1) argu-
ments sum to at least(1− 2−ω)n, and that outputs0 otherwise. Use theYs to
deﬁne lengths(L0,...,L d+1) as in Lemma 8. Letπ be a permutation ond + 1
elements such that ifi∈ I, thenLi appears as one of the ﬁrstm + 1 elements
of (Lπ(1),...,L π(d+1)).
Then, for alld∈{d∗,...,δm +1}, we can calculate the probability that there
exists a bad subsetS′⊆Y of size (m + 1) as:
Pr
[∑
i∈I
Li≥ (1− 2−ω)n|D =d
]
= Pr[f (Lπ(1),...,L π(d+1)) = 1
⏐⏐D =d ]
= Pr[f (L1,...,L d+1) = 1
⏐⏐D =d ]
= Pr[ (L1 +··· +Lm+1)≥ (1− 2−ω)n
⏐⏐D =d ].
We applied Lemma 8 to derive the second equality above.
Step 3: Complete the calculation using a balls-into-bins argument. The last
probability on the right-hand side is relatively easy to compute. To compute
Pr[B|D =d], we must compute
Pr[ (L1 +··· +Lm+1)≥ (1− 2−ω)n
⏐⏐D =d ],
39

which is the probability that a single set is bad. We then apply the Union Bound
over all possible sets to boundPr[B|D =d].
The eventL1 +L2 +...+Lm+1≥ (1−2−ω)n can only happen whend−(m+1)
of the integers are greater than2−ωn. (Otherwise the ﬁrstm+ 1segments would
have length less than(1− 2−ω)n.)
Theprobabilityof thiseventisno greaterthantheprobabilitythat d−(m+1)
balls thrown independently at random inton bins all end up in the rightmost
2−ωn bins. This probability is at most(2−ω)(d−m−1), so
Pr[ (L1 +L2 +... +Lm+1)≥ (1− 2−ω)n|D =d ]≤
( 1
2
)ω(d−m−1)
.
Then we apply the Union Bound over all
(d+1
m+1
)
possible size-(m + 1) subsets
S′ of segments that could be large to get:
Pr[B|D =d ]≤
(d + 1
m + 1
)( 1
2
)ω(d−m−1)
≤ 2d+12−ω(d−m−1) = 2 (1−ω)d+ωm+ω+1. (6)
Bounding Pr[B|D≥d∗]. We can write
Pr[B|D≥d∗] =
δm+1∑
d=d∗
Pr[B|D =d]· Pr[D =d]. (7)
The upper bound onPr[B|D = d] given by (6) is non-increasing ind when
ω≥ 1. Sinceω is a positive integer, we can apply the bound of (6) to bound (7)
as:
Pr[B|D≥d∗]≤ 2(1−ω)d∗+ωm+ω+1·
δm+1∑
d=d∗
Pr[D =d]
≤ 2(1−ω)d∗+ωm+ω+1
≤ 2(1−ω)(δm/2)+ωm+ω+1
≤ 2ω+12[(1−ω)δ
2 +ω]m. (8)
Completing the Proof.By (3), we have
Pr[B] = Pr[D<d ∗] + Pr[B|D≥d∗].
Applying (5) and (8), yields the bound:
Pr[B]≤ 2[(1−ω)δ
2 +ω]m + 2ω+12[(1−ω)δ
2 +ω]m
= (2ω+1 + 1)2[(1−ω)δ
2 +ω]m
≤ 2ω+2· 2[(1−ω)δ
2 +ω]m.
40

D Sandwich Graphs
In this section we recall the deﬁnition ofsandwich graphs[8], and introduce a
few transformations on sandwich graphs that are useful for our analysis of the
Balloon functions.
D.1 Deﬁnitions
Deﬁnition 9 (Sandwich Graph [8]).A sandwich graphis a directed acyclic
graph G = (U∪V,E ) on 2n vertices, which we label asU ={u1,...,u n} and
V ={v1,...,v n}. The edges ofG are such that
–there is a(ui,ui+1) edge fori = 1,...,n − 1,
–there is a(un,v 1) edge,
–there is a(vi,vi+1) edge fori = 1,...,n − 1, and
–all other edges cross fromU to V.
Figure 9 (left) depicts a sandwich graph. IfG = (U∪V,E ) is a sandwich
graph, we refer to the vertices inU as the “top” vertices and vertices inV as the
“bottom” vertices.
Deﬁnition 10 (Well-Spread Predecessors).LetG = (U∪V,E ) be a sand-
wichgraphandﬁxasubsetofvertices V′⊂V. Writetheimmediatepredecessors
of V′ in U as P ={ui1,ui2,...,u i|P|}. Then we say that the predecessors of
V′ are (σ,ρ )-well spread if the corresponding set of integers{i1,i 2,...,i |P|} is
(σ,ρ )-well spread, in the sense of Deﬁnition 6.
Deﬁnition 11 (Avoiding Set).LetG = (U∪V,E )be a directed acyclic graph.
We say that the subsetV′⊂V is a (σ,ρ )-avoiding setif, after placingσ pebbles
anywhere on the graph, except onV′, there are at leastρ distinct vertices inU
on unpebbled paths toV′.16
Figure 8 gives an example of an avoiding set.
Lemma 12 Let G = (U∪V,E ) be a sandwich graph and letV ⊂ V′. If the
predecessors ofV′ are (σ,ρ )-well spread, thenV′ is a (σ,ρ )-avoiding set.
Proof. Wecanthinkofthe ppredecessorsofverticesin V′ asdividingthechainof
vertices inU (the “top half of the sandwich”) intop smaller sub-chains of vertices.
If the predecessors ofV′ are (σ,ρ )-well spread then, after removing anyσ of these
sub-chains, the remaining chains collectively containρ vertices. We know that
there can be at mostσ pebbles on vertices inU, so at mostσ sub-chains contain
a pebbled vertex. The remaining sub-chains, collectively containingρ vertices,
contain no pebbled vertices. Theρ vertices in these unpebbled sub-chains all
are on unpebbled paths toV′, which proves the lemma.
16 More formally: for all possible placements ofσ vertices on the graphG except on
V′, there exists a size-ρ set of verticesU′⊆U such that for all verticesu∈U′, there
exists a vertexv∈ V′ and au-to-v path p in G such that no vertex in the pathp
contains a pebble.
41

U
V
V′
Fig.8: The setV′ is a (1, 4)-avoiding set: after placing any single pebble on the
graph (except on vertices inV′), there will still be at least four vertices inU on
unpebbled paths toV′.
Deﬁnition 13 (Everywhere-Avoiding Graph).Let G = (U∪V,E ) be a
directed acyclic graph. The graphG is a (σ,ρ )-everywhere avoiding graphif for
every subsetV′⊂V such that|V′| =σ, the subsetV′ is a (σ,ρ )-avoiding set.
Deﬁnition 14 (Consecutively-Avoiding Graph).Let G = (U∪V,E ) be
a directed acyclic graph, with vertices inV labeled v1 to vn. The graph G is
a (κ,σ,ρ )-consecutively avoiding graphif every subsetV′ ⊂ V of consecutive
vertices of sizeκ is (σ,ρ )-avoiding.
D.2 Transformations on Sandwich Graphs
Sandwich graphs are useful in part because they maintain certain connectivity
properties under a “localizing” transformation. LetG be a sandwich graph. Let
(a1,...,a n) be the top vertices of the graphG and let(an+1,...,a 2n) be the bot-
tom vertices. The localized graphL(G)on vertices(a1,...,a 2n)has the property
that every predecessor of a vertexai falls into the set{amax{1,i−n},...,a i−1}. (In
theunlocalizedgraph, ai’spredecessorsfellintothelargerset {amax{1,i−2n},ai−1}.)
If we think of the set{amax{1,i−n},...,a i−1} as the vertices “nearby” to vertex
ai, then the localizing transformation ensures that the predecessors of every
vertex ai all fall into this set of nearby vertices. Figure 9 demonstrates this
transformation.
We use this localizing transformation to make more eﬃcient use of buﬀer
space in the Balloon algorithm. It is possible to pebble a localized sandwich
graph in linear time withn +O(1) pebbles, whereas a non-localized sandwich
graph can require as many as2n pebbles in the worst case. This transformation
makes computing the Balloon function easier for anyone usingn space, while
maintaining the property that the function is hard to compute in much less
space. (Smith and Zhang ﬁnd a similar locality property useful in the context
of leakage-resilient cryptography [82].)
Deﬁnition 15.LetG = (U∪V,E ) be a sandwich graph withU = (u1,...,u n),
V = (v1,...,v n). The localized graphL(G) = (L(V )∪L (U ),L(E)) has top and
bottom vertex setsL(U ) ={˜u1,..., ˜un} andL(V ) ={˜v1,..., ˜vn}, and an edge
42

set
L(E) =
{(˜ui, ˜vi)| i∈{ 1,...,n }}∪
{(˜ui, ˜ui+1)| i∈{ 1,...,n − 1}}∪
{(˜vi, ˜vi+1)| i∈{ 1,...,n − 1}}∪
{(˜un, ˜v1)}∪
{(˜vi, ˜vj)| (ui,vj)∈E and i≤j}∪
{(˜ui, ˜vj)| (ui,vj)∈E and i>j }.
V
U u1
v1
u2
v2
u3
v3
u4
v4 ˜V
˜U ˜u1
˜v1
˜u2
˜v2
˜u3
˜v3
˜u4
˜v4
Fig.9: A sandwich graphG (left) and the corresponding localized graphL(G)
(right).
Claim 16 LetG = (U∪V,E ) be a sandwich graph and letV′⊂V be a subset
whose predecessors are(σ,ρ )-well spread. LetL(V′) be the vertices corresponding
to V′ in the localized graphL(G). ThenL(V′) is a (σ,ρ )-avoiding set.
Proof. Fix a pebbling ofL(G) usingσ pebbles with no pebbles onV′. For every
edge (ui,vj)∈U×V in G, there is either (a) a corresponding edge inL(G), or
(b) a pair of edges(ui,vi) and (vi,vj) inL(G). If the vertexvi does not contain
a pebble, then for analyzing the avoiding-set property, we can consider there
to exist a (ui,vj) edge. There are now at mostσ pebbled U-to-V′ edges. By
Lemma 12, the(σ,ρ )-avoiding set property follows.
Corollary 17 If G is a sandwich graph such that every subset ofσ vertices
V′⊂V is (σ,ρ )-well-spread, thenL(G) is a (σ,ρ )-everywhere avoiding graph.
Corollary 18 If G is a sandwich graph such that every subset ofκ vertices
V′⊂V is (σ,ρ )-well-spread, then thenL(G) is a (κ,σ,ρ )-consecutively avoiding
graph.
Thenextsetofgraphtransformationsweuseallowsustoreducethein-degree
of the graph fromδ down to 2 without aﬀecting the key structural properties
of the graph. Reducing the degree of the graph allows us to instantiate our
construction with a standard two-to-one compression function and avoids the
issues raised in Appendix B.3. The strategy we use follows the technique of Paul
and Tarjan [66].
43

Deﬁnition 19.Let G = (U∪V,E ) be a (possibly localized) sandwich graph.
We say that thedegree-reduced graphD(G) is the graph in which each vertex
vi∈V inGof in-degreeδ+1 is replaced with a path “gadget” whose vertices have
in-degree at most2. The original predecessor vertexvi−1 is at the beginning of
the path, there areδ− 1 internal vertices on the path, and the original vertex
vi is at the end of the path. Theδ other predecessors ofvi are connected to the
vertices of the path (see Figure 10).
By construction, vertices inD(G) have in-degree at most two. IfG is a sand-
wich graph on2n vertices, thenD(G) still hasn “top” vertices andn “bottom”
vertices. If the graphG had out-degree at mostδ, then the vertex and edge sets
ofD(G) are at most a factor of(δ− 1) larger than inG, since each gadget has
at most (δ− 1) vertices. The degree-reduced graphD(G) has extra “middle”
vertices (non-top non-bottom vertices) consisting of the internal vertices of the
degree-reduction gadgets (Figure 10).
D(V )
D(U )
V
U
...... D(V )
D(U )
......
Fig.10: A portion of a sandwich graph G (left) and the same portion of the
corresponding degree-reduced graphD(G) (right). The shaded vertices are part
of the degree-reduction gadget.
Claim 20 Let G = (U∪V,E ) be a (possibly localized) sandwich graph and let
D(G) be the corresponding degree-reduced graph. LetV′⊂V be a(σ,ρ )-avoiding
set inG, letD(V′) be the vertices corresponding toV′ and the degree-reduction
gadgets attached to vertices inV′. ThenD(V′) is a (σ,ρ )-avoiding set.
Proof. For every pebbling of vertices inD(G) that violates the avoiding property
ofD(V′), there is a corresponding pebbling in G that violates the avoiding
property ofV′. To convert a pebbling ofD(G) into a pebbling ofG, just place
a pebble on every vertex inG whose corresponding degree-reduction gadget in
D(G) has a pebble. The claim follows.
Corollary 21 If G is a (σ,ρ )-everywhere avoiding sandwich graph, thenD(G)
is “almost” a(σ,ρ )-everywhere avoiding graph, in the sense that every subset of
σ degree-reduction gadgets is a(σ,ρ )-avoiding set.
Corollary 22 If G is a (κ,σ,ρ )-consecutively avoiding sandwich graph, then
D(G) is “almost”(κ,σ,ρ )-consecutively avoiding graph, in the sense that every
subset ofσ degree-reduction gadgets is a(σ,ρ )-avoiding set.
44

D.3 Pebbling Sandwich Graphs
Lemma 23 Let G = (U∪V,E ) be a (κ,σ,ρ )-consecutively-avoiding sandwich
graph on2n vertices. LetM be a legal sequence of pebbling moves that begins with
no pebbles on the bottom half of the graph and that pebbles the topologically last
vertex inG at some point. Then we can divideM intoL =n/(2κ) subsequences
of legal pebbling movesM1,..., ML such that each subsequenceMi pebbles at
leastρ unpebbled vertices inU.
The proof follows the idea of Lengauer and Tarjan’s analysis of pebbling
strategies for the “bit-reversal” graph [54].
Proof. Label the vertices inV in topological order as(v1,...,v n). Divide these
vertices into⌊n/κ⌋ intervals of sizeκ. The last vertex in each of the intervals is
then: vκ,v 2κ,v 3κ,...,v ⌊n/κ⌋κ.
Consider any legal sequence of pebbling movesM of the last vertex inG.
Lett0 = 0 and letti be the time step at which vertexviκ (the last vertex in the
ith interval) ﬁrst receives a pebble. We know that atti−1, there are no pebbles
on theith interval—this is because, by the structure of a sandwich graph, all of
the pebbles inV must be pebbled in order. Thus, betweenti−1 and ti, every
dependency of the vertices in intervali must receive a pebble.
These areκ consecutive vertices. SinceG is (κ,σ,ρ )-consecutively avoiding,
the vertices in intervali are a(σ,ρ )-avoiding set. By the deﬁnition of an avoiding
set, at timeti−1 there must be at leastρ unpebbled dependencies inU of the
vertices in theith interval. All of these vertices must receive pebbles by timeti.
Thus, in each time interval, theM must pebble a set ofρ unpebbled vertices
in U.
We have thatκ≤n, so⌊n/κ⌋≥ n/(2κ), so there are at leastn/(2κ) sets of
ρ unpebbled vertices inU that receive pebbles during the pebbling.
We now let the subsequenceMi deﬁned in the lemma be the sequence of
pebbling moves betweenti−1 and ti, and the lemma follows.
Corollary 24 Pebbling a(κ,σ,ρ )-consecutively avoiding (possibly localized) sand-
wich graph withσ pebbles, starting with no pebbles on the bottom half of the graph
requires at leastρn
2κ pebbling moves.
Proof. By Lemma 23, the pebbling pebbles at leastρ unpebbled vertices at least
n/(2κ) times, so the total time required must be at leastρn
2κ.
A key piece of our analysis involves “stacks” of everywhere-avoiding sandwich
graphs. Given a sandwich graph withn top vertices andn bottom vertices, we
can stack the graphs by making the bottom nodes of the zero-th copy of the
graph, the top nodes of the ﬁrst copy of the graph (see Figure 11).
Lemma 25 Let G be a depth-d stack of (σ, 2σ)-everywhere avoiding sandwich
graphs. LetV′ be a set ofσ level-d vertices in the graph. Fix a conﬁgurationC
of at mostσ pebbles anywhere on the graph, except that there are no pebbles on
vertices inV′. Then ifM is a sequence of legal pebbling moves such that
45

L3
L2
L1
L0
Fig.11: A stack ofd = 3 sandwich graphs. The top vertices of the stack are at
levelL0 and the bottom vertices are at levelL3.
–M beings in conﬁgurationC,
–M at some point places a pebble on every vertex inV′, and
–M never uses more thanσ pebbles,
thenM must consist of at least2dσ pebbling moves.
Proof. By induction on the depthd.
Base case (d = 1). By the fact that the graphG is (σ, 2σ)-everywhere avoiding,
the σ vertices in the setV′ must have at least2σ unpebbled dependencies on
the top level of the graph. These unpebbled predecessors of vertices inV′ all
must receive pebbles duringM, soM must contain at least2σ moves.
Induction Step. As in the base case, we know that there are at least 2σ
unpebbled level-(d− 1) dependencies ofV′ that must receive pebbles duringM.
Now we can divideM into two sub-sequences of consecutive pebbling moves:
M =M1‖M2. We divide the pebbling moves such thatM1 consists of the
moves during which the ﬁrstσ of the2σ unpebbled dependencies receive pebbles,
andM2 consists of the rest of the moves.
Note now that the induction hypothesis applies to bothM1 andM2:
–Each set of moves begins in a conﬁguration of at mostσ pebbles on the
graph.
–Each set of moves pebbles a set ofσ initially unpebbled level-(d− 1) vertices.
–Each set of moves never uses more thanσ pebbles.
Thus the total number of pebbling moves required inM is at least2· (2d−1σ),
which proves the lemma.
Remark 26 The arguments of Lemmata 23 and 25 apply also to localized and
degree-reduced sandwich graphs, by Corollaries 17, 18, 21, and 22.
46

D.4 Random Sandwich Graphs
Now we introduce two special types of sandwich graphs that we use in the
analysis of the Balloon function. Alwen and Blocki [3] use the same type of
sandwich graphs in their analysis (indeed, their work has inspired our use of
sandwich graphs), though the results we prove here are new.
Deﬁnition 27 (δ-Random Sandwich Graph).A δ-random sandwich graph
is a sandwich graphG = (U∪V,E ) such that each vertex inV hasδ predecessors
sampled independently and uniformly at random from the setU.
Lemma 28 LetG = (U∪V,E ) be a 3-random sandwich graph on2n vertices.
Then for all positive integers16<n 0,G is an (m,m,n/ 16)-consecutively avoid-
ing graph for allm such that n0≤ m < n/6, except with probability at most
28·n· 2−n0/2.
Proof. The predecessors of a set of m = |V′| vertices are δm vertices i.u.r.
sampled from the set ofn “top” vertices. By Lemma 7, withδ = 3 and ω = 4,
the probability that a single consecutive set ofmvertices induces a poorly spread
set of predecessors is at most
2ω+22[(1−ω)δ
2 +ω)]|V′| = 2 62−|V′|/2.
We then apply the Union Bound over all sets ofm consecutive verticesto ﬁnd
the probability that there exists a bad set. For each choice ofm, there are at
most n sets V′ of consecutive vertices, so
Pr[∃ bad set]≤ 26
n∑
i=1
n∑
m=1
2−m/2≤n· 26
∞∑
m=n0
2−m/2
This is just a geometric series with ratior = 2−1/2.
Pr[∃ bad set]≤n· 26· rn0
1−r≤n· 26· 2−n0/2
1− 2−1/2.
The denominator is at least1− 2−1/2≈ 0.292... ≥ 1/4, so
Pr[∃ bad set]≤ 28n· 2−n0/2,
which completes the proof.
Lemma 29 A 7-random sandwich graph on 2n vertices with 211 < n, is an
(n/64,n/ 32)-everywhere avoiding graph, with probability at least1− 128· 2−n/50.
Proof. Let δ = 7 and ω = 5. First, consider the probability that a single set
V′⊂V in G induces a set that is not(n/64,n/ 32)-well spread.
47

Letm =n/2ω+1. Since we have22ω+1 <n , by the hypothesis of the lemma,
2ω <n/ 2ω+1 =m. By the hypothesis of the lemma,δe< 23+ 2ω
δ , so
δe< 23+ 2ω
δ
nδe< 23+ 2ω
δ n
n< 23+ 2ω
δ
n
δe
m = n
2ω+1 < 2(2−ω+ 2ω
δ ) n
δe.
Since 2ω <m< 2(2−ω+ 2ω
δ ) n
δe, m satisﬁes the conditions of Lemma 7.
The probability that a single setV′ ⊂ V in G induces a set that is not
(n/2ω+1,n/ 2ω)-well spread is then is at most2ω+2· 2[(1−ω)δ
2 +ω]m. by Lemma 7.
Let k = (1 −ω)δ
2 +ω. We then apply the Union Bound over setsV′ of size
n/2ω+1 to ﬁnd the probability that there exists a bad setV′:
Pr[∃ bad set]≤
( n
n/2ω+1
)
· 2ω+2· (2k)
n
2ω+1
≤
( n·e
n/2ω+1
) n
2ω+1
· 2ω+2· (2k)
n
2ω+1
≤
(
e· 2ω+1) n
2ω+1
· 2ω+2· (2k)
n
2ω+1
≤ 2ω+2(
e· 2ω+1· 2k) n
2ω+1
≤ 2ω+2(
2log2e+ω+1+k) n
2ω+1
.
Here, we used the standard inequality
(n
a
)
≤ (ne
a )a. Then we have that the
probability that there exists a bad set is at most
27·
(
2
(1−ω)δ
2 +2ω+log2e+1
2ω+1
)n
≈ 128· 2−0.02433n < 128· 2−n/50.
This proves the lemma.
Lemma 30 LetGn,d be a depth-d stack of3-random sandwich graphs withn ver-
tices on each level. Then, every sandwich graph in the stack is an(m,m,n/ 16)-
consecutively avoiding graph, for16 < n0 and all n0≤ m < n/6, except with
probability
pconsec(n,d,n 0)≤ 28·d·n· 2−n0/2.
Moreover, Gn,d is a depth-d stack of 7-random sandwich graphs, then every
sandwich graph in the stack is(n/64,n/ 32)-everywhere avoiding when211 <n ,
except with probability:
pevery(n,d )≤ 128·d· 2−n/50.
Proof. The probability thatGn,d does not satisfy the ﬁrst property is at most
pconsec≤ 28·d·n· 2−n0/2 by Lemma 28 and a Union Bound over thed levels
48

of the graph. The probability thatGn,d does not satisfy the second property is
at mostpevery≤ 128·d· 2−n/50 by Lemma 29 and an application of the Union
Bound over thed levels of the graph.
Lemma 31 Let Gn,d be a depth-d stack of δ-random sandwich graphs withn
vertices on each level. Fixn0 > 16. Then, pebbling the topologically last vertex
of Gn,d with at mostS pebbles requires timeT such that:
(a) when δ≥ 3: S·T≥dn2/32 for space usagen0≤S, except with probability
pconsec(n,d,n 0) deﬁned in Lemma 30, and
(b) when δ≥ 7: S·T ≥ (2d− 1)n2/32 for space usagen0≤ S < n/64, when
211 <n , except with probabilitypevery(n,d ), deﬁned in Lemma 30.
Proof. Lemma 30 demonstrates that, except with probabilitypconsec deﬁned in
the lemma, the last sandwich graph in the stack is an(S,S,n/ 16)-consecutively
avoiding graph whenδ≥ 3 for allS satisfying the ﬁrst part of the lemma, except
with small probability. (Lemma 30 only discusses graphs withδ = 3, but since a
(δ + 1)-random sandwich graph contains aδ-random sandwich graph, the lemma
still applies.) Additionally, whenδ≥ 7, for allS satisfying the second part of
the lemma, every sandwich graph in the stack is additionally a(n/64,n/ 32)-
everywhere avoiding, except with small probability.
Conditioned on these failure events not happening, we can prove the theorem
by induction ond, the depth of the stack of sandwich graphs.
Base Case (d = 1). When d = 1, part (a) of the theorem implies part (b).
Part (a) follows immediately by by Corollary 24: pebbling an (S,S,n/ 16)-
consecutively avoiding graph with S pebbles requires at least n2
32S pebbling
moves. ThusS·T≥n2/32 when S satisﬁes the condition of the lemma.
Induction Step.Assume the theorem holds for stacks of depth at mostd− 1.
At the start of a pebbling ofGn,d, there are no pebbles on the graph.
To prove Part (a): To place a pebble the ﬁrst pebble on leveld of the graph,
we must ﬁrst place a pebble on the last vertex of leveld− 1 of the graph. By the
induction hypothesis, this requires at least(d−1)n2/(32S) pebbling moves. Now
there are no pebbles on the last level of the graph, by Corollary 24, pebbling an
(S,S,n/ 16)-consecutively avoiding graph withS pebbles—for someS satisfying
the hypothesis of the lemma—requires at leastn2
32S pebbling moves. Thus
T≥ n2
32S + (d− 1)n2
32S = dn2
32S,
and Part (a) is proved.
To prove Part (b): To place a pebble the ﬁrst pebble on the last level of the
graph, we must ﬁrst place a pebble on the last vertex of leveld− 1 of the graph.
By the induction hypothesis, this requires at leastTd−1≥ (2d−1− 1)n2/(32S)
pebbling moves, ifS satisﬁes the bound of part (b) of the lemma andδ≥ 7.
49

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
v(t−1)
1
v(t)
1
v(t−1)
2
v(t)
2
v(t−1)
3
v(t)
3
v(t−1)
4
v(t)
4
(a) Pseudo-random edges.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
v(t−1)
1
v(t)
1
v(t−1)
2
v(t)
2
v(t−1)
3
v(t)
3
v(t−1)
4
v(t)
4
(b) Backwards edges.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
v(t−1)
1
v(t)
1
v(t−1)
2
v(t)
2
v(t−1)
3
v(t)
3
v(t−1)
4
v(t)
4
(c) In-place edges.
Fig.12: Components of the data-dependency graph for one Balloon mixing
round. Here,v(t)
i represents the value stored in theith block in the main memory
buﬀer at thetth mixing round.
By Corollary 24, pebbling an(S,S,n/ 16)-consecutively avoiding graph that
has no pebbles on the bottom half of the graph withS pebbles requires pebbling
at leastn/(32S) subsets ofn/16 vertices on the “top half” of the sandwich graph.
These n/16 vertices are the bottom vertices of a depth-(d− 1) stack of
(n/64,n/ 32)-everywhere avoiding graphs. By Lemma 25, pebbling anyn/64 un-
pebbledvertices of adepth-(d−1)stackof suchgraphswithatmost n/64pebbles
requires at least2d−1n/64 moves. Since there are(n/16)/(n/64) = 4 segments of
such vertices, the total time required to pebble them is(2d−1n/16) = 2dn/32.17
The total time to pebble each of then/(2S) segments of such vertices is then:
Td≥ n
2S· 2dn
32 = 2d−1n2
32S .
So the total time to place a pebble on the last vertex of thed-th level of the
graph is:
T≥Td +Td−1≥ 2d−1n2
32S + (2d−1− 1)n2
32S = (2d− 1)n2
32S ,
and Part (b) is proved.
E From Pebbling to Memory-Hardness
In this section, we complete the security analysis of the Balloon function. We
present the formal proof of the claim that the spaceS and timeT required to
compute ther-round Balloon function satisﬁes (roughly)S·T≥ rn2/32. The
other pieces of Informal Theorem 1 follow from repeated application of the same
technique.
17 More formally, we can divide any sequence of pebbling movesM that pebbles all
of these 4 segments into4 distinct sub-sequences of consecutive pebbling moves. By
Lemma 25, each of these sub-sequences must contain at least2d−1n/64 moves.
50

Claim 32 The output of then-block r-round Balloon construction is the label-
ing, in the sense of Deﬁnition 3, of a depth-r stack of localized and degree-reduced
δ-random sandwich graphs.
Proof. Follows by inspection of the Balloon algorithm (Figure 1).
Theorem 33 (Formal statement of ﬁrst part of Informal Theorem 1)
Letk denote the block size (in bits) of the underlying cryptographic hash function
used in the Balloon constructions. Any algorithmA that computes the output of
then-blockr-round Balloon construction (with security parameterδ = 3), makes
T random-oracle queries, and uses fewer thanσ bits of storage space, such that
T < rn2
32S∗ and σ <S∗
(
k− log2
( rn2
32S∗
))
−k,
for somen0 and S∗ satisfying 16<n 0≤S∗ <n/ 6, then the probability thatA
succeeds is at most
T + 1
2k +pconsec(n,r,n 0),
wherepconsec(·,·,·) is deﬁned in Lemma 30.
Proof of Theorem 33.Fix an algorithmA. By Claim 32,A outputs the labeling
of a depth-r stack of 3-random sandwich graphs. By Lemma 31, shows that
pebbling these graphs withn0≤S <n/6 pebbles takes time at leastn2/(32S),
except with some small probability. LetB denote this event that the pebbling
bound does not hold.
Then we have:
Pr[A succeeds] = Pr[A succeeds|B]· Pr[B]+
Pr[A succeeds|¬B]· Pr[¬B]
≤ Pr[A succeeds|¬B] + Pr[B].
From Lemma 31,Pr[B]≤pconsec(3, 4,n 0,n,r ).
Conditioned on¬B, we may use Lemma 31 in conjunction with Theorem 5 to
show thatPr[A succeeds|¬B] is small. In particular, for anyS∗≥n0, there does
not exist a pebbling of the graph that uses thanT∗ = rn2
32S∗ pebbling moves.18
We then apply Theorem 5 to conclude thatPr[A succeeds|¬B]≤ (T + 1)/2k.
This completes the proof.
The other parts of Informal Theorem 1 follow from a similar analysis.
18 The graph used in the Balloon construction is degree-reduced and localized, so it is
notpreciselya δ-randomsandwichgraph, butbyRemark26, thepebblingtime-space
lower bounds still apply to the degree-reduced and localized graph.
51

F Argon2i Proof of Security
In this section, we show that the proof techniques we introduce for the analysis of
the Balloon algorithm can also apply to prove the ﬁrst known memory-hardness
results on the Argon2i algorithm.
We focus here on the single-pass variant of Argon2i, described in Section 4,
and do not attempt to generalize our results to the multi-pass variant. As in
Section 4, we analyze an idealized version of Argon2i, in which the randomly
chosen predecessor of a vertex is chosen using the uniform distribution over the
topologically prior vertices.
Theorem 34 LetAn denote the single-pass Argon2i data-dependency graph on
n blocks. Fix a positive integern0 > 16. Then pebblingAn with S≥n0 pebbles
requires timeT such that:
S·T≥ n2
1536,
except with probabilityn225−n0/2.
Note that the memory-hardness theorem that we are able to prove here about
single-passArgon2iismuchweakerthanthecorrespondingtheoremwecanprove
about the Balloon algorithm (Informal Theorem 1). Essentially, this theorem
says that an attacker computing single-pass Argon2i cannot save more than a
factor of 1536× in space without having to pay with some increase in computa-
tion cost.
For the purposes of the security analysis, it will be more convenient to look at
the graphA2n. Take the graphA2n with and write its vertex set in topological
order as: (u1,...,u n,v 1,...,v n). We can now think of theu vertices as the “top”
vertices of the graph, and thev vertices as the “bottom” vertices in the graph.
Then we have the following claim:
Claim 35 Consider any set of12m bottom vertices of the graphA2n, form>
16. These vertices are an(m,n/ 16)-avoiding set, in the sense of Deﬁnition 11,
except with probability27−m/2.
Proof. Letvi be some bottom vertex inA2n. The vertexvi has one predecessor
(call itpred(vi)) chosen i.u.r. from the set{u1,...,u n,v 1,...,v i−1}. Conditioned
on the event that thatpred(vi)∈{ u1,...,u n}, this predecessor is chosen i.u.r.
from the set of top vertices{u1,...,u n}. LetTi be an indicator random variable
taking on value “1” when vertexvi’s randomly chosen predecessor is a top vertex.
Then Pr[Ti = 1]≥ 1/2.
Fix a setV′ ofκm vertices on the bottom half of the graph. We want to show
that, with high probability,V′ has at least 3m predecessors in the top-half of
the graph. The expected number of top-half predecessors of the setV′ is at least
κm/2, and we want to bound the probability that there are at most3m top-
half predecessors. A standard Chernoﬀ bound gives that, forκm independent
52

Poisson trials with success probability at least1/2, the probability that fewer
than 3m of them succeed is bounded by
Pr
[∑
vi∈V′
Ti < 3m
]
< exp
(
− (κm
2 )(1− 6
κ )2
2
)
,
for κ> 6. Now takingκ = 12 gives:
Pr
[∑
vi∈V′
Ti < 3m
]
< exp
(
− 3m
4
)
< 2−m.
Now, by Lemma 7 (withδ = 3 and ω = 4), the probability that the prede-
cessors of setV′ are not (m,n/ 16)-well-spread over the top vertices is at most
262−m/2. By the Union Bound, the probability that eitherV′ has fewer than3m
i.u.r. top-half predecessors or that these predecessors are poorly spread is at most
26−m/2 +2−m≤ 27−m/2. By Lemma 12, the setV′ is then an(m,n/ 16)-avoiding
set, except with probability27−m/2.
Proof of Theorem 34.Fix an integern0. We show thatA2n is a(12m,m,n/ 16)-
consecutively avoiding graph whenn0 ≤ m≤ n/12, except with probability
n227−n0/2. The probability that any consecutive set of12m vertices on the bot-
tomlevelofthegraphisnotan (m,n/ 16)-avoidingsetisatmost ∑n
i=1
∑n
m=n0 27−m/2≤
n227−n0/2, using Claim 35 and the Union Bound.
Now, we apply Corollary 24 (withκ = 12m, σ =m, ρ =n/16) to conclude
that pebblingA2n with at mostS pebbles requires at leastT≥ n2
384S pebbling
moves, whenn0 <S <n/ 12, except with probabilityn227−n0/2. Alternatively,
we can write: S·T ≥ n2/384. Since pebbling A2n takes at least 2n pebbling
moves, this bound holds forn/12≤S≤ 2n as well.
Now, since we are interested in the complexity of pebblingAn (not A2n),
we can divide thens by two to ﬁnd that pebblingAn with at mostS pebbles
requiresS·T≥n2/1536 pebbling moves, whenn0 <S , except with probability
at mostn225−n0/2.
We can convert the pebbling lower bound into a time-space lower bound in
the random-oracle model using the techniques of Appendix E.
G Analysis of Scrypt
In this section, we show that the proof techniques we have used to analyze the
memory-hardness of the Balloon algorithm are useful for analyzing scrypt.
G.1 Scrypt is Memory-Hard
In particular, we give a very simple proof that a simpliﬁed version of the core
routine in the scrypt password hashing algorithm (“ROMix”) is memory-hard
53

in the random-oracle model [68]. Although scrypt uses a password-dependent
access pattern, we show thateven ifscrypt used a password-independent access
pattern, it would be still be a memory-hard function in the sense of Section 2.2.
Alwen et al. [6] give a proof memory-hardness of scrypt in the stronger par-
allel random-oracle model (Section 5.1) under combinatorial conjectures (see
Footnote 11). Here we prove memory-hardness in the traditional sequential
random-oracle model. Our goal is not to prove a more powerful statement about
scrypt—just to show that our techniques are easy to apply and are broadly rel-
evant to the analysis of memory-hard functions.
Simpliﬁed scrypt.The simpliﬁed variant of scrypt we consider here—which op-
erates on a buﬀer(x1,...,x n) ofn memory blocks using random oraclesH1,H2,
and H3—operates as follows:
1. Set x1←H1(1,passwd,salt).
2. Fori = 2,...,n : Setxi←H1(i,xi−1).
3. Set y←xn.
4. Fori = 2,...,n :
–Set r←H2(i,salt)∈{ 1,...,n }.
–Set y←H3(i,y,x r).
5. Output y.
This variant of scrypt uses a password-independent access pattern, so our time-
space lower bound applies not only to conventional scrypt but also to this cache-
attack-safe scrypt variant. In Step 4 above, if we selectedr by also hashing in
the value ofy, then we would have a hash function with a password-dependent
scheme that behaves more like traditional scrypt.
Theorem 36 Fix a positive integern0 > 16. LetGn denote the data-dependency
graph for the core scrypt function (ROMix) onn memory blocks. Then any strat-
egy for pebblingGn using at mostS pebbles requires at leastT pebbling moves,
such that:
S·T≥ n2
96,
for S >n0, with probabilityn226−n0/2.
Proof. By inspection of the ROMix algorithm, one sees thatGn is a 1-random
sandwich graph withn top andn bottom vertices.
We now use an argument similar to that of Lemma 28 to show thatGn is
hard to pebble with few pebbles. Fix an integerm such thatn0≤ m≤ n/6.
Then any set of3m vertices on the bottom half ofGn have 3m predecessors on
the top half ofGn, chosen independently and uniformly at random (using the
random oracle). By Lemma 7 (applied withδ = 3 andω = 4), these predecessors
are (m,n/ 16)-well spread over the top vertices, except with probability26−m/2.
Fix an integern0 > 16. Using a Union Bound, the probability that any set
of 3m consecutive vertices form≥n0 induces a poorly spread set of predeces-
sors is at most:∑n
i=1
∑n/6
m=n0 26−m/2≤n226−n0/2. So, except with probability
54

n226−n0/2, the graphGn is (3m,m,n/ 16)-consecutively avoiding form≥ n0.
Now we can apply Corollary 24 (withκ = 3S,σ =S, andρ =n/16) to conclude
that pebblingGn with at mostS pebbles, forn0≤ S≤ n/6, requires at least
T ≥ n2
96S pebbling moves with high probability. Thus, we haveS·T ≥ n2/96
when n0≤S.
As in Appendix E, we can now turn the pebbling lower-bound into a time-
space lower bound in the random-oracle model. We omit the details, since the
conversion is mechanical.
G.2 Attacking Scrypt Under Access Pattern Leakage
We show that if an attacker can obtain just a few bits of information about the
data-accesspatternthatscryptmakeswhenhashingatargetuser’spassword, the
attacker can mount a very eﬃcient dictionary attack against that user’s scrypt-
hashed password in constant space. To demonstrate this, we recall a folklore
attack on scrypt (described by Forler et al. [42]).19
Say that the attacker observes the memory access pattern of scrypt as it
operates on a target user’s password and that the attacker gets ahold of the
target user’s password hash and salt (e.g., by stealing the/etc/shadow ﬁle on a
Linux system). Say that scrypt, when hashing on the target’s password, accesses
the memory blocks at addresses(A1,A 2,A 3,... ). The attacker can now mount
a dictionary attack against a stolen password ﬁle as follows:
–Guess a candidate passwordp to try.
–Run scrypt on the passwordpand the salt (which is in the password ﬁle), but
discard all blocks of data generated except the most recent one. Recompute
the values of any blocks needed later on in the computation.
–Say that scrypt on the candidate password accesses blockA′
1 ﬁrst. IfA1⁄=
A′
1, terminate the execution and try another candidate password.
–Say that scrypt on the candidate password accesses blockA′
2 next. IfA2⁄=
A′
2, terminate the execution and try another candidate password.
–Continue in this way until recovering the target’s password...
The probability that a candidate password and the real password agree on the
ﬁrstk memory addresses isn−k, and the expected time required to run each
step of the algorithm isn/2 forn-block scrypt, since recomputing each discarded
memory block takes this much time on average. The expected time to compute
one candidate password guess is then:
E[T ] = n +
n∑
k=1
k(n/2)
nk ≤n
(
1 + 1
2
n∑
k=1
k
nk
)
≤n
(
1 + 1
2n(1/n)
)
∈O(n).
Since the space usage of this attack algorithm is constant, the time-space product
is onlyO(n) instead ofΩ(n2), so scrypt essentially loses its memory-hardness
19 See Appendix G for a sketch of the core scrypt algorithm.
55

completely in the face of an attacker who learns the ﬁrst few bits of the memory
access pattern.20
Of course, a valid question is whether a real-world attacker could ever learn
any bits of the access pattern of scrypt on a user’s password. It is certainly plau-
sible that an attacker could use cache-timing channels—such as exist for certain
block ciphers [25]—to extract memory-access pattern information, especially if
a malicious user and an honest user are colocated on the same physical machine
(e.g., as in a shared compute cluster). Whether or not these attacks are practical
today, it seems prudent to design our password-hashing algorithms to withstand
attacks by the strongest possible adversaries.
20 Here we have assumed that the attacker knows the entire access pattern, but a
similarly devastating attack applies even if the attacker only knows the ﬁrst few
memory address locations.
56