On the Fault Injection Security of White-box
Ciphers
Md Alamgir Alam1,2, Avik Chakraborti1,2, Takanori Isobe3, Sajani Kundu1,4
and Sayandeep Saha5
1Institute for Advancing Intelligence, TCG CREST, Kolkata, India
2Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), India
3Osaka University, Osaka, Japan
4Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educational and Research Institute, India
5 Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Mumbai, India
md.alamgir.alam.119@tcgcrest.org,avik.chakraborti@tcgcrest.org,takanori.isobe@ist.
osaka-u.ac.jp,sajani.kundu.89@tcgcrest.org,sayandeepsaha@cse.iitb.ac.in
Abstract.White-box security settings assume an extremely powerful adversary having
full visibility and control of the software implementation and internal computations.
Leakage-based attacks extract secret information via a local passive attacker (e.g.,
malware) and transmit it to a remote server. However, an active adversary, who
can perform fault injections in a white box setting, has received limited attention,
especially in the symmetric-key setting. In this paper, we initiate a formal study of
active data-only adversaries in the white-box setting. Such adversaries preserve the
control flow of the implementation but corrupt a bounded number of key-embedded
lookup-table entries, enabling precise and repeatable manipulation of table values.
Unlike leakage-based attacks, which are constrained by the bandwidth and existence
of firewalls, such fault attacks can operate entirely locally. We focus on a data-only
tampering adversary that preserves the control flow of the white-box implementation,
but corrupts a bounded number of key-embedded lookup-table entries. Even under
this stealth-preserving restriction, the adversary can cryptographically weaken the
implementation and make faulty ciphertexts significantly easier to decrypt. We
formalize such an active adversary by defining a new security notion and studying its
impact on contemporary table-based white-box implementations. Our analyses reveal
a structural disparity between two major design paradigms: Feistel-based white-box
ciphers appear significantly more vulnerable to fault injection than SPN-based designs.
Finally, we propose a software-based fault detection mechanism that detects fault
injections with high probability, strengthening resilience. We provide detailed analysis
of the SPN-based cipherWEM(the same analyses also work for other SPN-based
ciphers likeSPNbox), and two Feistel-based ciphersSPACEandGalaxy. Our analyses
reveal thatSPACEandGalaxyare significantly more vulnerable thanWEM, under
our fault-based security setting. Precisely, we show thatWEMachieves high security
under all the adversarial models, whereasSPACEandGalaxyinstances can be attacked
with a very high message recovery probability of2−8, when the adversary can choose
the fault positions and the values and corrupts up to one fourth of the implementation
table entries.
Keywords:white-box cryptography, fault injection, table-based constructions, Feistel
networks, SPN.

2 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
1 Introduction
Cryptographic primitives are traditionally evaluated under the black-box security model, in
which an adversary is restricted to interacting exclusively with the input–output interface
of a cipher. However, this modelling assumption becomes insufficient when cryptographic
software is deployed in untrusted or adversarial execution environments. The adversary
can exploit various physical defaults, such as timing, power, faults, and, in some cases, can
read or modify the intermediate results of cryptographic software by means of malware,
completely undermining the security guarantees (e.g., leaking the secret key).
To address this limitation, white-box cryptography was introduced by Chowet al.[13,
12] with the goal of protecting the secret key embedded within software implementations
of AES and DES. In the white-box threat model, the adversary has complete access
to the execution environment, including internal states and intermediate computations
of the cipher. Under this stronger adversarial model, the adversary may attempt to
extract the embedded master key (key extraction) or to compress the implementation while
preserving its functionality, thereby violating the notion of incompressibility. Following
these foundational works, a number of white-box implementations for DES and AES
were introduced [9, 18, 23, 32]. Nevertheless, all such proposed schemes were broken
through key extraction or table-decomposition attacks [3, 22, 29, 27, 31]. Biryukov et
al. [4] proposed dedicated white-box block ciphers using the ASASA structure, but was
broken with decomposition attacks [25]. The security of constructions with multiple secret
nonlinear and linear layers has been explored by other works [5, 8, 28]. Bogdanov and
Isobe introduced theSPACEfamily of white-box block ciphers [6], which aims to resist
key extraction and code lifting (a variant of incompressibility). Bogdanov et al. [7] later
proposedSPNbox, a new family of space-hard block ciphers that improvesSPACE[6] in
throughput. WhileSPACEuses the Feistel structure,SPNboxuses the SPN-type structure
with small block ciphers as keyed S-boxes.
Existing Real-World Usage of White-Box Cryptography.White-box cryptography was
originally proposed [ 13, 12] for Digital Rights Management (DRM [1]) applications.
With the emergence of software-based approaches such as host card emulation (HCE [2,
26]), which replace hardware secure elements (HSE) in NFC transactions, white-box
cryptography has become increasingly relevant for software-only security solutions, such as
cloud services. Major payment networks like Mastercard recommend the use of white-box
cryptography for token protection [24]. The growing prevalence of advanced malware and
Trojans has further reinforced its relevance in security-critical deployments.
Existing White-Box Security Notions.Memory leakage constitutes a significant threat in
software environments and may arise from malware, Trojans, buffer overflow vulnerabilities,
and cold-boot attacks [15]. Recent white-box leakage notions assume two adversarial
functionalities: i) a local malware that can read/dump the memory footprint of the cipher;
and ii) a remote adversary, to which the memory dump is covertly transmitted. This
is called thecode-liftingscenario. To address such threats, white-box security notions
defineSpace-Hardness(targeting one-time leakage) andLongevity(targeting continuous
leakage) [6, 7, 14, 11, 20, 19, 10]. Space-hard designs limit the feasibility of exploiting
low-capacity exfiltration channels (this refers to covertly transferring information at low
rates to avoid detection), while longevity targets resilience against gradual information
exposure over time Constraints on the exfiltration capacity are practical in the presence of
firewalls or anomaly detection systems. However, such memory leaking adversaries are
still passive – the local adversary (e.g., malware) does not modify/interrupt computations
of the white-box cipher.
In contrast, fault injections are more powerful and active attack techniques against

3
white-box implementations. Given full control over the execution, the adversary can
introduce precise and repeatable perturbations into the implementation. Software-based
environments enable fine-grained manipulation with greater spatial and temporal precision
than traditional fault models.
Fault Injection.Surprisingly, fault injection has not been formally studied for recent
symmetric white-box ciphers (although some dedicated white-box ciphers claim to be
inherently key extraction resistant against differential fault attacks [6, 7, 11, 20, 10] as the
full master key is embedded inside the implementation table). However, the literature is
void of weaker but more practical adversarial goals under the white-box fault injection
setting (for example, message recovery). The effectiveness of fault injection arises from its
active character. Instead of merely observing internal values, the adversary deliberately
induces controlled faults within the implementation. These induced faults may significantly
weaken the internal structure of the cipher, which would otherwise remain unaffected
under passive observation. Moreover, unlike classical fault injection attacks on ciphers,
which perform a timed injection by means of voltage/clock/electromagnetic glitches or
laser pulses, white-box fault injections can happen through malware and hence can be far
more controllable. Classical fault injection has a gray-box view of the cipher execution
and has limited control over the value of the injected fault. In contrast, white-box fault
injections can happen through malware, and therefore can modify stored table entries or
memory-resident data precisely and repeatedly to desired values. Here, precision should
not be viewed as an additional idealization inherited from physical fault attacks. In a
software white-box setting, a local adversary such as malware may directly patch stored
tables or overwrite table entries in memory. Thus, entry-level control over lookup-table
entries is a natural abstraction. The main practical restriction is instead stealth: the
adversary should preserve the surrounding program behavior and avoid overt control-flow
tampering. This motivates a formal study of active, data-only tampering attacks against
table-based white-box ciphers.
Code
 Leaked data
L1,L 2,L 3,L 4
Firewall
Filtered leakage
L1,L 4
(L2,L 3 are filtered out)
Code
Injects faults
locally:EtoE ′
Faulty data:C ′ =E′(M)
Firewall
Faulty data:C ′
(a) White-box leakage scenario. (b) White-box fault injection scenario.
Figure 1:White-box leakage and fault injection scenarios.
1.1 A Potential Fault Adversarial Setting
The recent white-box ciphers with key-embedded tables are unlikely to admit key recovery
attack possibilities under fault injections (since keys are securely embedded in the tables).
However, there are possibilities of other practical fault-based attacks. Let us simply
consider the two-part entity (local and remote) setting, similar to the code-lifting setting,
where the local entity could be a malware that can modify the white-box implementation.
An immediate possible attack scenario is the cryptographic weakening of the white-box
cipher. For example, if several lookup table entries are corrupted to identity mapping, the
system could transmit ciphertexts with cryptographically weaker properties. The remote
entity may intercept such ciphertexts and easily decrypt the message. In Figure 1,E is
corrupted to E′, andM is encrypted toC′ (using E′) that can be captured by an external
entity to recoverM with a smaller complexity than intended. Interestingly, this setting
does not require any code-lifting and very limited transmission to the remote entity, and,
therefore, is free of any constraints due to bandwidth limitations.

4 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
However, limitations might come through other sources, for example, an aggressive
change of the entire table might be easily detectable by the legitimate communication
parties, or some security monitors co-residing with the white-box cipher. This precisely
means a runtime integrity-checker or anti-tampering component running on the same
device as the white-box implementation. We would like to mention that, such monitoring is
only a possible deployment mechanism, not an assumption of our security model. Moreover,
in some cases, there can be communication between the remote and local adversary to
facilitate the decryption of the weakened ciphertexts. All such constraints strongly depend
on the nature of the white-box cipher under consideration. Overall, this new adversarial
setting must be formalized and studied, which is the goal of this paper.
We want to briefly highlight the practical significance of this setting. The intended
setting is client-side encryption on a compromised device, where malware can modify the
embedded lookup table but direct data exfiltration is constrained or monitored in the client
side network. By weakening the implementation, the malware can cause the legitimate
encryption channel to produce ciphertexts that a remote collaborator can decrypt more
easily. Relevant examples include client-side encrypted uploads, backups, telemetry, and
outgoing application messages.
Fault Model.In this work, we consider the fault model with precise, fully controlled faults
to be injected only at the key-embedded look-up tables but not at the unkeyed public part of
the implementation (for example, mix-column operation for AES). Our model intentionally
excludes overt control-flow tampering, such as bypassing the encryption routine or reducing
the number of rounds. Such modifications would amount to functionality replacement
rather than cryptographic weakening, and they are also more likely to be detected by
code-integrity checks, anti-tampering mechanisms, or abnormal program behavior. Instead,
we focus on a data-only tampering adversary that modifies a bounded number of key-
embedded lookup-table entries while preserving the original code path. This captures a
stealth-preserving attack surface specific to table-based white-box implementations: the
program continues to execute the intended encryption routine and outputs ciphertexts of
the expected format, but the underlying primitive is weakened. Below, we will briefly talk
about the counter scenario of Evasion of Control-Flow Integrity (CFI) and Anti-Tampering
Protections. Real-world DRM systems and payment applications often incorporate robust
tamper-detection mechanisms for executable code, such as code obfuscation, checksum
verification, and Control-Flow Integrity (CFI) checks. If an attacker skips a function or
reduces the number of rounds by rewriting instructions, the program is likely to crash
immediately or trigger a tampering alert. In contrast, modifying a few bytes within a
multi-megabyte blob of seemingly random data (i.e., a lookup table) is highly likely to
evade these code-integrity monitors.
Our setting may seem related to the work [30] because a modified lookup table defines
a cipher related to the original implementation. However, our relation comes from bounded
entry-wise modifications of a single-key-embedded table, rather than related-keys or oracle
access to related-ciphers.
1.1.1 Why Data-Only Table Tampering?
Our restriction to data-only table tampering is not merely a simplifying assumption.
It reflects an asymmetry that commonly appears in software deployments of white-box
cryptography: executable code and data objects are protected and modified in different
ways.
On the defender side, executable regions are natural targets for integrity checks, control-
flow monitoring, anti-debugging mechanisms, and anti-tampering protections. Modifying
the control flow, skipping an encryption call, or reducing the number of rounds can
therefore cause crashes, checksum failures, or other observable deviations from the intended

5
execution. In contrast, table-based white-box implementations contain large key-embedded
data structures whose contents are designed to look pseudorandom. Continuously verifying
every table entry at runtime may introduce non-negligible overhead, and therefore, partial
modification of such data objects can be a more stealthy attack surface than instruction-
level patching.
Ontheattackerside, thesameasymmetryapplies. Code-levelpatchingtypicallyrequires
changing executable pages or altering control-flow behaviour, which may interact with
memory protections and code-integrity mechanisms. Data-only tampering, by contrast,
only requires the ability to overwrite selected data locations once the adversary has
obtained a memory-write primitive. This type of restriction is consistent with the broader
systems-security literature on data-only attacks. Data-oriented programming showed that
non-control-data attacks can be highly expressive without directly hijacking control flow
[16], and block-oriented programming further demonstrated that data-only attacks can be
automated even in the presence of strong control-flow defences such as CFI and shadow
stacks [17].
Our model instantiates this data-only attack paradigm in the white-box setting: the
adversary does not replace the encryption routine, skip rounds, or tamper with public
unkeyed operations. Instead, it corrupts a bounded number of key-embedded lookup-table
entries while preserving the original code path. This captures a stealth-preserving form of
cryptographic weakening that is distinct from generic software patching. This is precisely
the setting captured byNdUF: after bounded table-entry corruption, the resulting faulty
ciphertext should still remain hard to decrypt.
1.2 Our Contributions
In this work, we begin a fine-grained fault-based analysis (with weaker but practical
adversarial goals) of white-box ciphers. Our contributions are as follows.
1. We propose a new white-box security notion calledNdUF(Non-decryptability Under
Fault Injection), which captures fault injection scenarios under different adversarial
models.
2. We analyze one SPN-based and two Feistel-based white-box ciphers under this notion,
and show that Feistel-based ciphers are more vulnerable than SPN-based ones with
respect toNdUF.
3. Finally, we describe a software-based fault detection mechanism.
1.2.1 Theoretical Modelling.
A key feature of our fault setting is that it enables a clean and structured theoretical model.
The interaction between malware and the remote adversary is captured via communication
patterns, divided into: (1) selection of fault positions in the implementation table, and (2)
selection of fault values.
Wedefinethe xP-yVsetting, wherePand Vdenotefaultpositionsandvaluesrespectively,
and x,y∈{Known (K),Chosen (C),Adaptive Chosen (AC)} . Here, xP-yV indicates that
positions are selected in the ‘x’ manner and values in the ‘y’ manner. Details are given
in Section 4. In practice, malware can be pre-programmed for various communication
behaviours using randomness or control signals (e.g., a seed that allows reconstruction of
positions and values), requiring only minimal communication. For instance, in the adaptive
case, letp0,...,p F−1 be fault positions, and the adversary provides an initial valuev0 forp0.
The malware then computes and injectsv1 =f1(·),v 2 =f2(·),...,v F−1 =fF−1 (·), where
adaptive functionsfi are embedded in the code, and ‘.’s are adaptive inputs understood
from the context. This structure enables systematic security evaluation.

6 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
1.2.2 NdUF Notion Under Fault Injection.
We introduceNon-decryptability Under Fault Injection(NdUF), a fault-based white-box
security notion. The model considers table-based implementations where an adversary can
inject a number of controlled faults into tables. We clearly distinguish the original tableT
and the faulty tableT′, as well as the sets of fault positions and values.
The main requirement is that, even after up toF adversarial changes to table entries,
a faulty ciphertext of a random plaintext cannot be decrypted with probability greater
than2−D. This is captured by the notion(F,D)-NdUF.
Remark1.We remark that, the adversary is not formally prohibited from modifying the
entire table. However, full-table corruption may require locating and overwriting2nin
entries, resulting in a large write footprint and a higher risk of detection, particularly for
16- or32-bit tables. Our model therefore focuses on the practically relevant case where
the adversary has a bounded write capability or must limit modifications for stealth. Note
that, full corruption is the trivial endpoint, whileNdUFquantifies security in the nontrivial
partial-corruption regime. Also in practice, modern and future systems would deploy
security monitors [21] to track malware activities. With security monitors, malware is
not expected to work continuously to bypass the monitors. Therefore, corrupting a large
chunk of memory may become harder in practice.
1.2.3 NdUF Security Analysis of WEM and SPACE.
We provide the following.
• A detailedNdUFevaluation ofWEM, measuring the probability of decrypting a faulty
ciphertext. In all models, an adversary must control a sufficiently large number
of table entries to meaningfully affect decryption. Since encryption uses many
independent table look-ups across several rounds, the success probability decreases
as the number of rounds and look-ups increases. Even in the strongest model, where
both positions and values are chosen, the structure ofWEMlimits the adversary’s
advantage (see Table 1).
• A detailedNdUFanalyses ofSPACEandGalaxy. In general, these Feistel-based
schemes remain secure when the adversary has limited control over fault values, but
their security margin decreases under stronger and more structured fault capabilities.
In weaker settings (such asKP-KV and CP-KV), exploitation requires consistent
control over many rounds, and the adversary’s influence decreases quickly as the
number of rounds increases, leading to controlled security degradation. In stronger
settings (such asKP-CV and CP-CV), the ability to coordinate fault values allows
the adversary to use structural dependencies to build valid plaintext–ciphertext pairs
more efficiently. Thus, security decreases in theKP-CV model, and in theCP-CV
setting, the attack complexity becomes very low and practical (see Table 1).
1.2.4 A Software-Based Fault Detection Technique.
We propose a software-based fault detection mechanism for white-box implementations.
Unlike hardware redundancy, which is ineffective in the white-box setting due to precise
adversarial control, our approach uses a remote trusted server that stores a correct reference
implementation.
The method relies on random probe-based verification: the server selects random
table positions, computes the correct values, and sends encoded results to the user, who
recomputes and compares them locally; any mismatch reveals injected faults.
1Note that, the bounds in Table 1 forSPNboxandWEMinstances appear similar because both

7
Table 1:Benchmarking1 of the existing white-box cipher families, with respect toNdUF
security. σ(T)is code (table) size;K= Known,C= Chosen,AC= Adaptive Chosen,P=
Position,V= Value. In “NdUFBound”, “( σ(T)
2c ,Z )” denotes that even if faults are injected
in 1
2c
th
part of the table, adversary’s success probability is≤ 2−Z (hence more the value
of Z, better the security). The terms “w.p.” and “MR” denote “with probability” and
“Message Recovery”, respectively.
NdUFBound
Cipher Reference KP-KV/CP-KV ACP-KV KP-CV CP-CV
WEM-16 Section 5 (σ(T)
21.33,128) (σ(T)
21.33,119.56) (σ(T)
21.33,128) (σ(T)
21.33,118.47)
WEM-32 Section 5 (σ(T)
22.67,128) (σ(T)
22.67,104.3) (σ(T)
22.67,128) (σ(T)
22.67,103.86)
SPNbox-16 Section 5 (σ(T)
21.6 ,128) (σ(T)
21.6 ,119.64) (σ(T)
21.6 ,128) (σ(T)
21.6 ,118.88)
SPNbox-32 Section 5 (σ(T)
23.2 ,128) (σ(T)
23.2 ,04.44) (σ(T)
23.2 ,128) (σ(T)
23.2 ,104.26)
SPACE-16 Section 6 (σ(T)
2 ,128) (σ(T)
2 ,119.53) MR Attack w.p.2−119.43 whenF= σ(T)
4 MR Attack w.p.2−16 whenF= σ(T)
4
SPACE-32 Section 6 (σ(T)
2 ,128) (σ(T)
2 ,103.53) MR Attack w.p.2−103.43 whenF= σ(T)
4 MR Attack w.p.2−8 whenF= σ(T)
4
Galaxy-16 Appendix B (σ(T)
22 ,128) (σ(T)
22 ,118.80) MR Attack w.p.2−117.91 whenF= σ(T)
4 MR Attack w.p.2−16 whenF= σ(T)
4
Galaxy-32 Appendix B (σ(T)
22 ,128) (σ(T)
22 ,102.80) MR Attack w.p.2−102.95 whenF= σ(T)
4 MR Attack w.p.2−8 whenF= σ(T)
4
1.3 Paper Organization
Section 2 introduces the fundamental notation, conventions, and formal definitions that
are used throughout the paper. Section 3 presents concise specifications of our target
constructions. In Section 4, we define the new white-box fault-based security notionNdUF,
together with the associated adversarial models and their relationships. Section 5 provides
a detailedNdUFanalysis ofWEM, while Section 6 presents the correspondingNdUF
analysis ofSPACE. In Section 7, we propose a software-based fault detection technique
capable of identifying fault injections with a high probability. Finally, we conclude at
Section 8.
2 Preliminaries
2.1 Notations
Forn∈N, let[n] ={1,...,n}and{0,1} n denote alln-bit strings. For a bit stringx, let
|x| be its length in bits, andlsbl(x), msbl(x)its least/most significantl bits (0≤l≤|x| ).
The concatenation of two bit stringsx andy is denoted byx∥y. For a stringS of lengthn,
S[a :b]denotes the( b−a )-bit substring starting at positiona, where0≤a≤b≤n− 1.
For a stringS of length n, S[a : b]denotes the substring of S starting at positiona
and ending at positionb− 1, with lengthb−a , where0 ≤a≤b≤n . The notation
a%b denotes the remainder ofa modulo b. In the white-box setting,T ′ denotes the
table obtained after injecting faults intoT, and F is the total number of faults. Let
P ={p0,...,p F−1} andV ={v0,...,v F−1} be the sets of fault positions and values, and
F ={(p0,v 0),..., (pF−1,vF−1 )} the corresponding position–value pairs. Finally,Pr[X]
denotes the probability of eventX.
constructions share a closely related SPN structure consisting of repeated layers of SBoxes followed by
diffusion layers. TheNdUFbounds primarily depend on the total number of SBox invocations.SPNboxis
slightly weaker because it employs ten rounds, whereasWEMemploys eleven rounds. Consequently,WEM
contains more SBox invocations and achieves the same security level under a slightly larger number of
faults.

8 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
2.2 White-Box Encryption
Definition1(EncryptionScheme).Anencryptionschemeisamapping E :K×R×M→C ,
that takes as input a keyK∈K , a plaintextM∈M , and optionally some randomness
r∈R and outputs a ciphertextC∈C . Additionally, E must be invertible so that there
exists a decryption functionD :K×C→M , for whichD(K,E (K,r,M )) =M,∀K,r,M .
For simplicity, we will avoid randomized definitions below, as our candidate ciphers are
deterministic.
Definition 2(White-box Compiler).A compiler Com for an encryption scheme E :
K×R×M→C is a function fromK toT . Com outputs a table T∈T , whereT is
called the table space. Then there exists a program˜ET, functionally the same asEK (i.e.,
˜ET(M) = EK(M),∀M∈M ). We denote the size of the table (code) byσ(T). Notably,
σ(T)is significantly larger than the size ofK.
Definition 3(White-box Encryption Scheme [14] ).A white-box encryption scheme is a
tuple of an encryption scheme and its implementation, i.e,(E, ˜E)such that, E :K×M→
C, ˜E :T ×M→C, along with a white-box compilerCom :K→T , such that∀K∈K ,
E(K,· )(or simply EK(·)) is functionally equivalent to ˜E(T,· )(or simply ˜ET(·)) where
T=Com(K).
From Definition 3,E can be viewed as a traditional encryption scheme based on a
master key K∈K , and ˜E can be viewed as its white-box implementation version based on
the table T←Com (K). To differentiate,E can be called the cipher, and˜E is the white-box
implementation.
2.3 Black-Box Attack Model
The black-box model is a traditional attack model for symmetric key ciphers.
2.3.1 Adversarial Abilities.
The adversary is assumed to have black-box access to the cipher. The adversary can
make adaptive encryption or decryption queries with chosen plaintexts or ciphertexts,
respectively.
2.3.2 Security Requirements.
The adversary targets the master key recovery or distinguishes the cipher from a randomly
sampled counterpart. The security requirements are as follows. (1) It is computationally
hard to compute the master secret key, and (2) it is computationally hard to distinguish
the cipher from a randomly sampled permutation. The complexity is given by the time,
data, and memory complexities. For example, an128-bit secure cipher depicts that the
time complexity for key recovery is at least2128 encryptions. Also, the distinguishing
bound is evaluated by the number of necessary black-box queries.
2.4 White-box Attack Model With Respect to Leakage
In traditional white-box setting, the adversary aims to extract the secret key or lift the
implementation code. The difficulty of code lifting attack is evaluated bySpace-Hardness,
which is a variant of theincompressibilitynotion.

9
2.4.1 Space-Hardness.
If we assume that the adversary can not extract the key given full access to˜E(Com(K),·,· ).
As the adversary can not compute the ciphertext withoutK, alternatively, she can directly
use ˜E(Com(K),·,· )as a larger key. This opens an avenue of a new attack, where the
adversary lifts ˜E(Com(K),·,· )(instead of K) to another collaborative adversary. This is
called aCode-Lifting attack. To address the code-lifting scenario, Bogdanovet al.[6],
introduced the security notion denoted bySpace-Hardness.
Definition 4.((A, B) Space-Hardness)[6, 7]
An implementation of a block cipherEK is( A,B )space-hard if it is infeasible to encrypt
(decrypt) any randomly chosen plaintext (ciphertext) with a probability of more than2−B,
given any leaked code (through the table entries) of size less thanAbits.
Intuitively,(A,B )Space-Hardness provides an estimate on the leakage sizeA from the
code, that can be isolated from the white-box environment to encrypt (or decrypt) any
plaintext (or ciphertext) with probability more than2−B.
Generally, the adversary is allowed to leak any part of the code, but the master secret
key is embedded inside the table; hence, it is reasonable to assume the adversary can
leak only the table entries. To analyze the bounds for space hardness, the following3
adversarial models are considered based on the adversarial ability as presented in [7].
1. Known-Space (KS) Attack:The adversary has the knowledge oft known input-
output pairs from the tables. We denote the adversary byAKS.
2. Chosen-Space (CS) Attack:The adversary has the knowledge oft previously
chosen input-output pairs from the tables. We denote the adversary byACS.
3. Adaptively-Chosen-Space (ACS) Attack:The adversary obtainst adaptively
chosen input-output pairs from the tables, which means she gets the output of an
input before choosing the next input. We denote the adversary byAACS.
3 Specifications of Our Target Constructions
In this section, we compactly specify our target constructions (1)WEM[11], (2)SPACE[ 6],
and (3)Galaxy[ 20]. These three constructions cover both the SPN and Feistel cases and
are reasonable candidates for our analysis. We only provide a generic description of the
constructions and do not specify the underlying components, as the specific description is
not significant for our work.
(a)WEM.
 (b)SPACE.
 (c)Galaxy.
Figure 2:Our target ciphers: (a)WEM, (b)SPACE, (c)Galaxy.

10 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
3.1 Black-Box and White-Box Specification of WEM
3.1.1 Black-Box Specification of WEM.
WEM(see Figure 2a), is a family of white-box block ciphers that is based on incompressible
permutations and the classical Even-Mansour construction.WEMuses a keyed SBox
SK :{0, 1}nin→{ 0, 1}nin (can be viewed as a smallnin-bit block cipher) in the substitution
layer SubK :{0, 1}n→{ 0, 1}n; where the keyKis sampled uniformly at random, and a
random public permutationπ :{0, 1}n→{ 0, 1}n in the diffusion layer.SubK is w = n
nin
applications ofSK in parallel. The version ofWEMwith r rounds, and nin-bitSK is
denoted by
WEMr
nin =Sub K◦(π◦Sub K)◦···◦(π◦Sub K)/bracehtipupleft/bracehtipdownright/bracehtipdownleft/bracehtipupright
rtimes
(M).
3.1.2 White-Box Implementation of WEM.
In the white-box implementation ofWEM, the underlyingSK is implemented by a table
T with2 nin elements, such that T(i) = SK(i), with0 ≤i≤ 2nin− 1. Note that, the
underlyingSK needs to be an incompressible permutations such thatT represents an
incompressible implementation ofSK.
3.1.3 Instances for WEM.
The instances ofWEMproposed in [11] are as follows.
•WEM-8withr= 11,n= 128,n in = 8,w= 16
•WEM-16withr= 11,n= 128,n in = 16,w= 8
•WEM-32withr= 11,n= 128,n in = 32,w= 4
Remark2.Note that, [ 11] proposes the instancesWEM-8, andWEM-16, but notWEM-32,
possibly for memory efficiencies. We intend to useWEM-32in our analysis, as it uses a large
32-bit table and hence is more applicable and reasonable for the fault injection scenario (as
it can resist more faults). Also, we want to excludeWEM-8from our analysis, asWEM-8
uses a small table, and it may be easier to fault the full table (though our analysis will hold
forWEM-8). Note that, theoretically our proof depends on the fraction of corrupted-entries
and applies to any table size. Practically,8-bit-tables have only28-entries and are easier
to corrupt, whereas32-bit-tables have2 32-entries,making large-scale-corruption harder.
3.2 Black-Box and White-Box Specification of SPACE
3.2.1 Black-Box Specification of SPACE.
SPACE(see Figure 2b) is a family of white-box securen-bit block ciphers, based on the
generalized Feistel structure. We provide a generic black-box description needed to address
our work.SPACEuses the keyed round functionRFj
K :{0, 1}n→{ 0, 1}n, where the keyK
is sampled uniform at random from the respective key space such that
RFj
K(Xj−1) = (Rj
K(Xj−1
0 )⊕(X j−1
1 ∥Xj−1
2 ∥···∥X j−1
w−1))∥Xj−1
0 .
We denote then-bit input state of jth round asX j−1 = (Xj−1
0 , Xj−1
1 ,···, Xj−1
w−1),
withX j−1
i ∈ {0, 1}nin for0 ≤i≤w− 1(i.e, w = n
nin
is the number of branches).
Rj
K :{0,1} nin→{0,1} n−nin, for thejth round is defined as
Rj
K(x) =R K(x)⊕(0 (w−2)nin∥j),whereR K(x) =msb n−nin(EK(0n−nin∥x)).

11
Here, EK is ann-bit block cipher with ak-bit keyK. Note that the length ofx in bits isnin.
The version ofSPACEwith r rounds and round functionsRj
K’s is denoted asSPACEr
nin
and it is defined as
SPACEr
nin(X0) =RF r
K◦RF r−1
K ◦···◦RF 1
K(X0)
3.2.2 White-Box Implementation of SPACE.
In the white-box implementation ofSPACE, the underlying functionRK :{0, 1}nin→
{0, 1}n−nin is implemented by a tableT with2 nin elements each ofn−n in many bits,
such thatT(i) =R K(i),with0≤i≤2 nin−1.
3.2.3 Instances for SPACE.
The instances ofSPACEproposed in [6] are as follows.
•SPACE-8withr= 300,n= 128,n in = 8,w= 16
•SPACE-16withr= 128,n= 128,n in = 16,w= 8
•SPACE-24withr= 128,n= 128,n in = 24,w= 16
•SPACE-32withr= 128,n= 128,n in = 32,w= 4
Remark3.We describe our analyses forSPACE-16, andSPACE-32. From a practical
perspective,SPACE-8uses a small table of size in bytes, and it may be easier to fault
the full table. Precisely,SPACE-8maintains an8-bit table with only28 entries and can
therefore be corrupted more easily. In contrast, a32-bit table contains232 entries, making
large-scale corruption substantially more difficult in practice. Hence, it is reasonable to
excludeSPACE-8. In addition,SPACE-24has a different structure (three branches are fed
to the underlying lookup table, and the branches are unbalanced) as the other variants and
traditional Feistel. Hence, to keep things simpler, we excludeSPACE-24as well. However,
from a theoretical perspective, our analyses idea is the same for all the variants.
3.3 Black-Box and White-Box Specification of Galaxy
3.3.1 Black-Box Specification of Galaxy.
Galaxy(see Figure 2c) is a family of white-box securen-bit block ciphers withk-bit secret
key, based on type-2generalized Feistel construction.Galaxyuses the round function
RFj
nin,ϕ :{0,1} n→{0,1} n, such that
RFj
nin,ϕ(Xj−1) = Φ(Xj−1
0 ,Gj(Xj−1
0 )⊕X j−1
1 ,···,X j−1
w−2,Gj(Xj−1
w−2)⊕X j−1
w−1).
We denote then-bit input state ofjth round asX j−1 = (Xj−1
0 , Xj−1
1 ,···, Xj−1
w−1), with
Xj−1
i ∈{ 0, 1}nin for0 ≤i≤w− 1(i.e, w = n
nin
is the number of branches). The function
Φ :{0,1} n→{0,1} n is defined as
Φ(Xj
0,Xj
1,···,X j
w−1) = (Xj
ϕ(0),Xj
ϕ(1),···,X j
ϕ(w−1)),
whereϕ :{0, 1,···,w− 1}→{ 0, 1,···,w− 1}is a positional permutation.Gj :{0, 1}nin→
{0,1}nin, for thejth round is defined as
Gj(i) =G(i)⊕j,whereG(i) =ϕ nin(keygen(K),i).
Here,keygen(K)denotes the sequence of key streamS derived from the underlying stream
cipher withk-bit secret keyK(where the keyKis sampled uniform at random from the

12 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
respective key space) andϕnin(S,i ) =S[i.nin : (i + 1).nin]is the nin-bit substring ofS,
starting from the(i·n in)-th bit, where0≤i≤ 2nin− 1. Note that the length ofi in bits is
nin. The version ofGalaxywith r rounds and the functionsGjs is denoted asGalaxyr
nin,ϕ
and it is defined as
Galaxyr
nin,ϕ(X0) =RF r
nin,ϕ◦RF r−1
nin,ϕ◦···◦RF 1
nin,ϕ(X0)
3.3.2 White-Box Implementation of Galaxy.
In the white-box implementation ofGalaxy, the underlying function G :{0, 1}nin →
{0, 1}nin is implemented by a tableT with2 nin elements each ofnin many bits, such that
T(i) =G(i),with0≤i≤2 nin−1.
3.3.3 Instances for Galaxy.
The instances ofGalaxyproposed in [20] are as follows.
•Galaxy-8withr= 8,n= 128,n in = 8,w= 16, andϕ={5,0,1,4,7,12,3,8,13,
6,9,2,15,10,11,14}
•Galaxy-16withr= 16,n= 128,n in = 16,w= 8, andϕ={3,0,1,4,7,2,5,6}
•Galaxy-32withr= 32,n= 128,n in = 32,w= 4, andϕ={3,0,1,2}
Remark4.For a similar reason as in Remark 3, we describe our analyses with respect to
Galaxy-16, andGalaxy-32only.
4 A New Fault-Based White-Box Security Notion: NdUF
In this section, we introduce thewhite-box attack models with respect to fault
injections. Note that the adversary in the white-box setting is extremely powerful and is
assumed to inject a fault with complete precision. Hence, it is reasonable to assume that
the adversary will be able to replace any table entry with any value it wants, though there
is an upper bound on the number of entries it can alter. The security requirement for the
adversary is as follows.
4.1 Security Requirement
The adversary, with its abilities, targets to inject a certain number of faults into the
implementation tables. In particular, he can put his own values into the program table
such that the adversary has control over how the table should behave. The white-box
implementation should ensure that, even if a part of the table is corrupted with adversary-
chosen values, afaultyciphertext computed with this fault-injected implementation can
not be decrypted with high probability. We denote this notion asNon-decryptability
UnderFault InjectionorNdUF.
Intuitively, the adversary injects a bounded but large number of faults into the im-
plementation table for a single session. We denote this fault type as aone-timefault. A
construction secure in this fault setting is denoted asNdUFunder single-session fault or
NdUF. Below, we formally define the security notion under this fault injection setting.
4.2 The NdUF Security Notion
To show the tradeoff between the code injected with fault and the advantage of the attacker,
we introduce a new security notion named(F, D)-NdUF, defined below.

13
Definition 5.((F, D)-NdUF)A white-box cipher ( EK, ˜ET)is( F,D )-NdUFif it is infeasi-
ble to decrypt the faulty ciphertext corresponding to any randomly chosen plaintext with a
probability of more than2−D, given less than or equal toF entries of the implementation
table have been fault-injected.
Intuitively,(F,D )-NdUFprovides an estimate of the number of fault-injected table
entries that can be exploited to decrypt any faulty ciphertext for a random plaintext with
probability more than2−D.
Note that, our notion intentionally models persistent pre-challenge corruption. The
fault injections are given before the challenge. This ordering allows us to isolate the effect
of pre-positioned faults and establish the basic framework clearly. Allowing challenge-
dependent corruption defines a stronger and qualitatively different model, which may
trivialize some chosen-value settings. We would like to consider post-challenge corruption
as an extended work outside the scope of the present results.
4.3 Fault-Based Attack Model
In this section, we describe the fault-based attack model in which faults are injected only
into the table entries. Under this model, the local adversary (e.g, malware) that injects
faults is incorporated into the challengerCh, and the remote adversary is considered as the
adversaryA. Now, the attack model, depicted in Figure 3, is simply described as follows:
• First, the challenger selects a keyKuniformly at random from the key spaceK and computes
the table T by executing the white-box compilerCom(K)for the white-box implementation ˜ET.
• Next, the set of fault positions and corresponding values, denoted byF, is determined through
the interaction between the challenger and the adversary, according to the specified adversarial
model.
• Then those faults are injected into the tableT, resulting in a modified tableT′ and the white-box
implementation becomes ˜ET′.
• Finally, the challenger computes the ciphertextC = ˜ET′ (M ), for a random plaintextM, and
sends the challenge ciphetextC to the adversary. Then, the ultimate goal of the adversary is
to recover the original plaintextM from the ciphertextC, that is, to output anM′ so that
M=M ′.
faulty code
(Injects faults)
xP-yVCommunication
Figure 3:Fault-based attack model.
4.4 Adversarial Models of NdUF
We introduce several adversarial settings. Depending on the power of the adversary,
six adversarial models, denoted as(xP-yV), where x, y∈{K,C,AC} , with K being
known, C being chosen, andAC beingadaptively chosen. Note that,ideally there should
be nine such models. However, we observe that it is not reasonable to consider the three
modelsACP-CV,CP-ACV, andACP-ACV, since the remote adversary is computing the
positions and the values all by herself, and the term “adaptive" does not carry any impact.
The six models are described below and illustrated in Figure 4 for better understanding.
To describe this, we assume thatpi denotes the index (i.e., the position) of the table

14 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
KP-KV
Ch A
(p0, v0), . . . ,(pF−1 , vF−1 )
KP-CV
Ch A
p0, . . . , pF−1
v0, . . . , vF−1
KP-ACV
Ch A
pi
vi
Ftimes
adaptively
CP-KV
Ch A
p0, . . . , pF−1
v0, . . . , vF−1
CP-CV
Ch A
(p0, v0), . . . ,(pF−1 , vF−1 )
ACP-KV
Ch A
pi
vi
Ftimes
adaptively
Figure 4:Six adversary models depending on the communication between the adversary
Aand the challengerChto create faulted data.
Tand the fault valuesvi are injected intoT(pi)for i∈{ 0, 1,···,F− 1}by the fault-injector.
1. Known Position Known Value (KP-KV):The adversary is provided with fault
position–value pairs(pi,vi)for i∈{ 0, 1,...,F− 1}, without having any control over
the fault positions and the injected values.
2. Known Position Chosen Value (KP-CV):The adversary is given a set of fault
positions pi, wherei∈{ 0, 1,...,F− 1}, and can arbitrarily select the corresponding
fault valuesvi, thereby definingT(pi) =v i for eachi.
3. Known Position Adaptively Chosen Value (KP-ACV):The adversary has
no control over fault positions, but is allowed to choose corresponding fault values
adaptively. For eachi≥ 1,vi may depend on the previously revealed positions and as-
signed values. Thus, the adversary receives the fault positionspi,i∈{ 0, 1,···,F− 1}
sequentially and selects appropriate values for each position based on the information
obtained so far.
4. Chosen Position Known Value (CP-KV):The adversary first selects a sequence
of fault positionspi, wherei∈{0,1,...,F−1}, and is subsequently provided with
the corresponding fault valuesvi.
5. Chosen Position Chosen Value (CP-CV):The adversary selects a sequence of
fault position–value pairs(pi,vi), wherei∈{0,1,...,F−1}of her own choice.
6. Adaptively Chosen Position Known Value (ACP-KV):The adversary is allowed
to choose the fault positionspi adaptively, fori∈{ 0, 1,...,F− 1}, while there is no
control over the corresponding fault valuesvis. Fori≥ 1, the choice ofpi depends on
the previously selected positions and the valuesv0,v 1,...,v i−1. Thus, the adversary
selects positions sequentially, adapting each choice based on the information obtained
so far, while having no control over the injected fault values.
4.4.1 Reductions of the Above Models
In this section, we denote that a modelA reduces to modelB byA≺B , i.e., whenA is
not secure impliesBis not secure.
KP-ACV ≺ KP-CV.To show thatKP-ACVreduces to theKP-CVmodel (see Figure 8a),
we construct an adversary forKP-CV, denotedAKP-CV, that breaks security in theKP-CV
model by using as a subroutine an adversary forKP-ACV, denoted byAKP-ACV, which is
assumed to break security in theKP-ACVmodel. The reduction is as follows:

15
1. After obtaining the positionspi fori∈{ 0, 1,···,F− 1}, the adversaryAKP-CV invokes
the adversaryAKP-ACV as a subroutine on inputpi’s. For each suchpi,AKP-ACV sets
the valuevi adaptively, toT′(pi), which are set accordingly byAKP-CV. Afterwards,
AKP-CV receives the challenge ciphertextCand invokesA KP-ACV on inputC.
2. The adversaryA KP-ACV outputs a plaintextM′ corresponding to the ciphertextC.
3. Finally, the adversaryAKP-CV outputsM ′.
CP-KV ≺ ACP-KV.To show thatCP-KVreduces toACP-KV(see Figure 8b), we
construct an adversaryAACP-KV that breaks theACP-KVmodel by using as a subroutine
an adversary forCP-KV, denoted byACP-KV, which is assumed to break security in the
CP-KVmodel. The reduction is described as follows:
1. After choosing a series of positionspi fori∈{ 0, 1,···,F− 1}, the adversaryACP-KV
which is invoked by the adversaryAACP-KV as a subroutine sends the positions to
AACP-KV. Then, AACP-KV obtains the corresponding valuesvi adaptively, for the
positions pi, fori∈{ 0, 1,···,F− 1}. Afterwards,AACP-KV receives the challenge
ciphertext C and invokesACP-KV on input the valuesvi for i∈{ 0, 1,···,F− 1} and
the challenge ciphertextC.
2. The adversaryA CP-KV outputs a plaintextM′ corresponding toC.
3. Finally, the adversaryAACP-KV outputsM ′.
4.4.2 Ideas Behind Our NdUF Analysis.
In this section, we discuss theNdUFanalysis idea. An interesting aspect of thisNdUF
notion is that it can be viewed as a generalization of the Space Hardness notion (see
Section 2.4.1), or in other words, Space Hardness is theoretically a special case of this
notion. Precisely, consider thexP-KV scenarios with x∈{K,C,AC} . In all these scenarios,
the malware sets the fault values and gives them to the remote adversary. In case, the
malware does not alter (that means zero fault) the table entries and gives it to the remote
adversary, then KP-KV,CP-KV, and ACP-KV correspond to the Space Hardness notion
(captures white-box leakage scenario) in theKS, CS, and theACS settings respectively
as defined in Section 2.4.1. We provide ourNdUFanalysis ofWEMandSPACE. We also
provideNdUFanalysis ofGalaxybut move it to Appendix B due to the shortage of space.
• NdUFAnalysis ofWEMInstances:ForWEM, when the fault-injected table is
a permutation, then the adversary can optimize the message recovery probability,
because if the faulty table is not a permutation, then the faulty challenge ciphertext
may have multiple preimages. Hence, we consider only the case that the faulty table
is a permutation.
– We first consider thexP-KV scenarios, with x∈{K,C,AC} . ForKP-KV, the
analysis assumes the challenger can easily maintain permutation in the faulty
table, and hence, the analysis will be similar to the Space Hardness in the KS
model. ForCP-KV, the challenger again can maintain the permutation property,
and the analysis will be similar to that ofKP-KV. However, in theACP-KVcase,
the positions are requested by the remote adversary to the challenger adaptively,
and hence it is hard to maintain permutation by injecting faults. The only way
the adversary can maintain permutation is that it does not inject any fault,
only receives leaked table entries from the challenger (that means zero faults).
Hence, in this case, the analysis will be similar to the Space Hardness analysis
under the ACS setting.

16 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
– We next talk about the analyses inKP-CV,KP-ACV, andCP-CV. We provide
dedicated security proofs for that. Note that,KP-ACV ≺ KP-CV, hence, it
is sufficient to upper boundKP-CVto provide an upper bound forKP-ACV.
CP-CVbound should be computed independently.
• NdUFAnalysis ofSPACEInstances:TheSPACEinstances, on the other hand,
do not need the faulty table to be a permutation. TheNdUFanalysis under the
xP-KV settings should be similar to that of the Space Hard analysis for leakage. We
also provide dedicatedNdUFanalyses underKP-CV,KP-ACV, andCP-CV.
5 NdUF Analysis of WEM
In this section, we provide theNdUFanalysis ofWEMunder theKP-KV,CP-KV,ACP-KV,
KP-CV, andCP-CVsettings. We useT ′ to denote the fault-injectedT.
Remark5.The analyses for the other existing SPN-based ciphers, such asSPNbox(with a
similar structure asWEM, exceptSPNboxhas10rounds, whereasWEMhas11rounds),
are exactly the same, and the same observations hold forSPNboxas well. Hence, we
provide theNdUFbounds for bothWEMandSPNbox.
5.1 NdUF Analysis of WEM Under KP-KV
Theorem 1.Given F distinct fault positions and their corresponding values underKP-KV
adversarial model for the tableT to T′ (containing2 nin entries each ofnin-bits) of a
white-box implementation ofWEM, it is infeasible for any adversary to decrypt a faulty
ciphertext corresponding to any randomly chosen plaintext with a probability of higher than( F
2nin
)w(r+1)
, where w is the number of table look-ups in each round andr is the total
number of rounds.
Proof. Given F distinct fault positions and their corresponding values, the probability
that each look-up for the tableT′ is included in the faulted entries isF
2nin. Suppose the
adversary wants to derive all the faulty intermediate states sequentially, starting from
the challenge ciphertext. Observe that the adversary can derive the intermediate faulty
state before one round from a ciphertext with probability
( F
2nin
)w
, asw is the number of
table look-ups in one round. Again, the sameT′ table is used in each round for the(r + 1)
rounds of invocations of the substitution layer. Hence, the adversary can’t decrypt a faulty
ciphertext with a probability of more than
( F
2nin
)w(r+1)
.
This bound is the same as the bound for Space Hard analysis under the KS setting. A
comparative summary ofNdUFbounds for theSPNciphers under theKP-KVfault model
is presented in Table 2.
5.2 NdUF Analysis of WEM Under CP-KV
Since the adversary has no view of the implementation tableT in both theKP and the CP
models. Thus, this model has no advantage over theKP scenario. We obtain this bound
to be( F
2nin )w(r+1) (same as theKP-KVbounds in Table 2).
5.3 NdUF Analysis of WEM Under ACP-KV
The technique we use to upper bound theNdUFsecurity is to compute the message
recovery probabilityp when the challenger maintains the permutation property in the
faulty table. This is because, when the faulty table is a permutation, thenp is optimized.
In theACP-KVsetting, we observe that the challenger can maintain permutation in the

17
faulty table only when the challenger injects zero fault, i.e., the leakage scenario. Hence,
we will follow a similar technique as in the proof for the Space Hardness bound under the
ACS setting in [7]. The bound is computed by Theorem 2. We mention Lemma 1 first.
Lemma 1.For m table look-ups, the expected number of used entries in the table with
2nin entries is estimated as2nin·(1−( 2nin−1
2nin )m).
Here, we omit the proof of the lemma, already described in [7].
Theorem 2.Given F distinct fault positions and their corresponding values underACP-
KVadversarial model for the tableTtoT ′ (containing2 nin entries each ofnin-bits) of a
white-box implementation ofWEM, it is infeasible for any adversary to decrypt a faulty
ciphertext corresponding to any randomly chosen plaintext with a probability higher than
N·2 −n + (1−N·2 −n)(F/2nin)w(r+1), where N=⌈log ein(1−F/2 nin)/w(r+ 1)⌉,
whereein = 2nin−1
2nin , w is the number of table look-ups per round andr is the total number
of rounds.
Proof. From Lemma 1, we observe that2nin
(
1−(e in)Nw(r+1)
)
positions are needed to
encryptN plaintexts, asNw(r+1)table look-ups are required to encryptN plaintexts. This
ensures thatFdistinct fault positions enable to computeN=⌈log ein(1−F/2 nin)/w(r+
1)⌉ plaintext-ciphertext pairs. Then, the challenge ciphertext is included in the set of
precomputed plaintext-ciphertext pairs with probabilityN· 2−n. Otherwise, forF given
distinct fault positions and their corresponding values, the challenge ciphertext can be
decrypted with the probability upper bounded by(F/2nin)w(r+1), as Theorem 1.
This bound is exactly the same as the bound for Space Hard analysis under the ACS
setting. A comparative summary ofNdUFbounds for theSPNciphers under theACP-KV
fault model is presented in Table 2.
Table 2:NdUFbounds forSPNciphers under theKP-KVandACP-KVfault model. The
results are provided for bothWEMandSPNboxconstructions.
WEM-16 WEM-32 SPNbox-16 SPNbox-32
KP-KV (σ(T)
21.33,128) (σ(T)
22.67,128) (σ(T)
21.6,128) (σ(T)
23.2,128)
ACP-KV (σ(T)
21.33,119.56) (σ(T)
22.67,104.13) (σ(T)
21.6,119.64) (σ(T)
23.2,104.44)
5.4 NdUF Analysis of WEM Under KP-CV
In this section, we evaluate the bound for(F,D )-NdUFsecurity ofWEMin theKP-CV
adversarial model and then provide a comparative summary ofNdUFbounds for theSPN
ciphers under this fault model in Table 3 at the end of the proof. The adversary first
obtains fault positions and chooses the values corresponding to those positions. In this
setting, the faulty table fails to be a permutation with high probability, as the actual
values in the non-faulty positions are unknown to the adversary. It is also assumed that all
the faulty values corresponding to the given positions are distinct. However, these faulty
values may also occur in non-faulty positions. We next propose the following theorem.
Theorem 3.Given F distinct fault values underKP-CVadversarial model for the tableT
to T′ (containing2 nin entries each ofnin-bits) of a white-box implementation ofWEM,
it is infeasible for any adversary to decrypt a faulty ciphertext corresponding to any
randomly chosen plaintext with a probability higher than
(F+1
2nin
)w(r+1)
with the given
condition
(
F
2− F
2nin−F− (2nin−F) ln 2
2
)
≤ 0, where w is the number of table look-ups in
each round andris the total number of rounds andlndenotes logarithm basee.

18 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
Proof. For the proof, we first define collision as the fact that there existsx̸ =x′ such that
T(x) = T′(x′), where T′ is the table obtained fromT after fault injection. Here,x′ lies in
the set of faulted positions, whereasx does not. Since T corresponds to a permutation
and under the assumption that the adversary injects distinct fault values (otherwise, it
may create more collisions, contradicting that the adversary tries to maximize its winning
(decryption) probability) at allF-many specified positions, any collision inT′ can involve
at most twodistinct inputs x and x′ (one in a faulty and the other in a non-faulty
position). Let the eventDecrypt denotes that a faulty ciphertext (encrypted with the
white-box implementation using faulty T′) obtained from a random plaintext can be
uniquelydecrypted to that plaintext, and the eventColl =q denotes that there areq
collision pairs inT′. Then the upper bound of the probability ofDecryptis the desired
bound. Hence, we would like to show that,Pr[Decrypt]≤
(F+1
2nin
)w(r+1)
. Clearly,
Pr[Decrypt] =
F∑
q=0
Pr[Decrypt|Coll=q]·Pr[Coll=q].(1)
For simplicity, let Aq denotes the event( Decrypt|Coll = q). Let us use the event
(Miss =i)to denote that i-many table look-ups are non-faulty during the decryption of a
ciphertext corresponding to the faulty implementation withq collisions in the tableT′.
Now, the total number of table look-ups for a single decryption isw(r+ 1). Hence,
Pr[A q] =
w(r+1)∑
i=0
Pr[A q|Miss=i]·Pr[Miss=i].(2)
Since, there areq collisions in the tableT′, then there are(2nin−q )distinct values T′.
Then a value is included in the fault values with probabilityF
2nin−q and the value is not
included in the fault values with probability(1− F
2nin−q ). For each of thei table look-up
values are not included in the fault values with probability(1− F
2nin−q )i. For the event
(Miss =i),( w(r + 1)−i )table look-up values are faulty, and this occurs with probability
( F
2nin−q )(w(r+1)−i). In addition, there are
(w(r+1)
i
)
possibilities fori table look-ups, not
included in the fault values. Thus,
Pr[Miss=i] =
(w(r+ 1)
i
)
·
(
1− F
2nin−q
)i
·
( F
2nin−q
)(w(r+1)−i).
(3)
Since i table look-ups are not included in the fault values, each of those look-ups has to be
guessed from(2nin−F )values, and the guessing probability will be 1
2nin−F for each of
those table look-ups.
Again, for(w(r+1)−i)table look-ups that are included in the fault values, first we find
the expected number of table look-ups that have more than one preimage underT′. For
this, the probability of obtaining table look-ups that have more than one preimage underT′
is q
F, and there are(w(r+1)−i)table look-ups that are faulty. Hence, the expected number
of table look-ups that have more than one preimage underT′ is (w(r+1)−i)q
F . Moreover,
there are at most two possible preimages for one colliding value for the image ofT′. Thus,
there exist2
(w(r+1)−i)q
F plaintexts corresponding to one ciphertext. Therefore,
Pr[A q|Miss=i] = 1
2
(w(r+1)−i)q
F
·
( 1
2nin−F
)i
(4)

19
Now, assumingt=w(r+ 1), from the equations 2, 3, and 4, we obtain
Pr[A q] =
t∑
i=0
(t
i
) 1
2
(t−i)q
F
·
( 1
2nin−F
)i
·
(
1− F
2nin−q
)i
·
( F
2nin−q
)(t−i)
=
t∑
i=0
(t
i
)( 2nin−F−q
(2nin−F)(2 nin−q)
)i
·
( F
(2nin−q)·2
q
F
)(t−i)
=
( 2nin−F−q
(2nin−F)(2 nin−q) + F
(2nin−q)·2
q
F
)t
=
( 1
2nin−q − q
(2nin−F)(2 nin−q) + F
(2nin−q)·2
q
F
)t
=
( f(q)
2nin−q
)t
,
(5)
where, f(q) = 1− q
2nin−F + F
2
q
F
. To find the upper bound ofPr [Aq], letS(q) =Pr [Aq]
and g(q) = f(q)
2nin−q. Then,S(q) = (g(q))t and for the upper bound ofS(q), it is sufficient
to find the upper bound ofg(q). Now, differentiatingfandgwith respect toq, we get
f′(q) =− 1
2nin−F − ln 2
2
q
F
andg′(q) = (2nin−q)·f ′(q) +f(q)
(2nin−q) 2 .
Again, leth(q) = (2nin−q )·f′(q) +f(q)and, differentiating it with respect toq, we obtain
h′(q) = (2nin−q)·f ′′(q)−f ′(q) +f′(q) = (2nin−q)·f ′′(q)
= (2nin−q)· (ln 2)2
F·2
q
F
≥0,
(6)
where, f′ and f′′ denote the first and second order derivatives off respectively. Hence,h
is an increasing function, i.e.,h(0)≤h(q)≤h(F), for0≤q≤F. Therefore,
g′(q) = h(q)
(2nin−q) 2≤ h(F)
(2nin−q) 2
= 1
(2nin−q) 2·
(F
2− F
2nin−F − (2nin−F) ln 2
2
) (7)
Hence,gis a decreasing function if and only ifg′(q)≤0, i.e.,
(F
2− F
2nin−F − (2nin−F) ln 2
2
)
≤0(8)
As g is decreasing, for0≤q≤F , g(q)≤g (0), i.e.,S(q)≤S (0). From Equations 1 and 5,
Pr[Decrypt]≤S(0)· ∑F
q=0Pr[Coll=q] =S(0) =
(F+1
2nin
)t
=
(F+1
2nin
)w(r+1)
.
TheNdUFbound summary underKP-CVis given in Table 3. TheNdUFbounds in
KP-ACVare bounded by those inKP-CV(see Section 4.4.1).
5.5 NdUF Analysis of WEM Under CP-CV
In theCP-CVattack model, the adversary itself can prepare a set of plaintext-ciphertext
pairs. To compute the bound, we first need to estimate how many table entries are required
to computeA plaintexts in advance. Note that, to encryptA plaintexts,w(r + 1)A table
look-ups are needed. After injecting F distinct fault values, the table is no longer a
permutation with a high probability, and letq distinct values appear twice (note that, we
assume the adversary chooses distinct values to minimize collisions in the faulty tableT′)
in the faulty tableT′. We therefore first apply the following lemma.

20 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
Lemma 2.For m table lookups andq colliding values (as mentioned above) ofT′, the
expected number of distinct values used is estimated as
(2nin−2q)
(
1−
(
1− 1
2nin
)m)
+q
(
1−
(
1− 2
2nin
)m)
.
Proof. With distinctq colliding values inT′,(2 nin−2q)many values occur once, andq many
values occur twice (i.e., collision). A value which occurs once in the faulty table is observed
during m table look-ups with probability(1− (1− 1
2nin )m). As there are total(2nin− 2q)
such values, the expected number for those values is(2nin− 2q)
(
1−
(
1− 1
2nin
)m)
. Again,
a value which occurs twice (i.e., a collision) in the faulty table is observed duringm table
look-ups with probability
(
1−
(
1− 2
2nin
)m)
. As there are totalq such values, the expected
number for those values isq
(
1−
(
1− 2
2nin
)m)
. Hence, the result follows.
Using Lemma 2, we now prove the following theorem.
Theorem 4.Given F distinct fault values under theCP-CVattack for the tableT to T′
(containing2 nin entries each ofnin-bits) of a white-box implementation ofWEM, it is
infeasible for any adversary to decrypt a faulty ciphertext corresponding to any randomly
chosen plaintext with a probability higher thanA·2−n+(1−A· 2−n)·
(
F
2nin + 1
2nin−F
)w(r+1)
,
whereA≤
⌈
− 2nin
w(r+1)·ln
(
1− F
2nin−F
)⌉
, wis the number of table look-ups in each round
andris the total number of rounds.
Proof. For the proof, we assume that there areq collisions in the faulty table. Therefore,
0≤q≤F . Then from Lemma 2, we observe that to computeA plaintext-ciphertext pairs,
we require,
(2nin−2q)
(
1−
(
1− 1
2nin
)w(r+1)A)
+q
(
1−
(
1− 2
2nin
)w(r+1)A)
many distinct values. SinceFdistinct fault values are given, then we have,
(2nin−2q)
(
1−
(
1− 1
2nin
)w(r+1)A)
+q
(
1−
(
1− 2
2nin
)w(r+1)A)
=F
=⇒F≥(2 nin−2q)
(
1−e − w(r+1)A
2nin
)
+q
(
1−e − 2·w(r+1)A
2nin
)
=⇒F≥(2 nin−q)
(
1−e − w(r+1)A
2nin
)
=⇒A≤− 2nin
w(r+ 1) ln
(
1− F
2nin−q
)
.
As q≤F , we haveA≤− 2nin
w(r+1) ln
(
1− F
2nin−F
)
. Again, the probability of observing a
value that occurs twice in the faulty table isq
F. Thus, for observing totalw(r + 1)values
to compute one plaintext-ciphertext pair, the expected number of values that occur twice
is w(r+1)q
F . Therefore, there are2
w(r+1)q
F plaintexts corresponding to one ciphertext. This
shows that the random ciphertext is included in the precomputed set of plaintext-ciphertext
pairs with the probability bounded byA
2n and those ciphertexts will be decrypted with the
probability upper bounded by2− w(r+1)q
F which is upper bounded by1, whileq= 0.
The random ciphertext is not in the precomputed set if at least one value among
w(r + 1)values is not in the fault values. Preimage of those values has to be guessed

21
with probability 1
2nin−F to obtain the plaintext. Then the probability that the random
ciphertext is not included in the precomputed set of plaintext-ciphertext pairs is1− A
2n.
Also, the probability of decrypting that ciphertext is
w(r+1)∑
i=0
(w(r+ 1)
i
)( F
2nin
)w(r+1)−i
·
( 1
2nin−F
)i
=
( F
2nin
+ 1
2nin−F
)w(r+1)
.
Hence, the result follows.
A comparative summary ofNdUFbounds for theSPNciphers under theCP-CVfault
model is presented in Table 3.
Table 3:NdUFbounds forSPNciphers under theKP-CVandCP-CVfault model. The
results are provided for bothWEMandSPNboxconstructions.
WEM-16 WEM-32 SPNbox-16 SPNbox-32
KP-CV (σ(T)
21.33,128) (σ(T)
22.67,128) (σ(T)
21.6,128) (σ(T)
23.2,128)
CP-CV (σ(T)
21.33,118.47) (σ(T)
22.67,103.86) (σ(T)
21.6,118.88) (σ(T)
23.2,104.26)
6 NdUF Analysis of SPACE
In this section, we provide theNdUFanalysis ofSPACEunder theKP-KV,CP-KV, and
attack underKP-CV,CP-CVadversarial models.
Remark6.We also provide detailedNdUFanalyses ofGalaxyin Appendix B. Note that,
bothSPACEandGalaxyfollow Feistel structure, but they differ in the number of table
look ups per round. Hence, we provide a separate analysis forGalaxy.
6.1 NdUF Analysis of SPACE Under KP-KV
We now analyze the bound for(F,D )-NdUFsecurity ofSPACEinKP-KVattack setting.
To evaluateNdUFsecurity bounds under theKP-KVattack, we propose Theorem 5. Note
that, we use the tableT′ to denote the fault-injected tableT corresponding to the function
RK.
Theorem 5.Given F distinct fault values and their corresponding positions in each
table underKP-KVattack setting for the table T to T′ (containing2 nin entries each of
(n−n in)-bits) of a white-box implementation ofSPACE, it is infeasible for any adversary to
decrypt a faulty ciphertext corresponding to any randomly chosen plaintext with a probability
of more than
( F
2nin
)r
, whereris the total number of rounds.
Proof. Given F distinct fault values and their corresponding positions, the probability
that a table look-up forT′ is in the faulty entries isF
2nin. Since T′ is used in each round
(total number of rounds isr), the adversary can decrypt a faulty ciphertext for a random
plaintext with probability
( F
2nin
)r
.
A comparative summary ofNdUFbounds is presented in Table 4.
6.2 NdUF Analysis of SPACE Under CP-KV
Since the adversary has no view of the challenge ciphertext in advance, the positions used
in the table look-ups to decrypt the challenge ciphertext are unpredictable in advance.
Therefore, this model has no advantage over theKP-KVmodel. Hence, bounds for specific
instances are the same as Table 4.

22 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
6.3 NdUF Analysis of SPACE Under ACP-KV
TheNdUFbound under theACP-KVmodel is described in Theorem 6, which is similar to
the Space Hard bound under the ACS setting.
Theorem 6.For F distinct fault positions under theACP-KVmodel for table T to T′
(containing2 nin entries each of(n−n in)-bits) of the white-box implementation ofSPACE,
it is infeasible for any adversary to decrypt the challenge ciphertext corresponding to any
randomly chosen plaintext with probability higher thanN· 2−n + (1−N· 2−n)· (F/2nin)r,
whereris the total number of rounds,N=
⌈
logein
(
1− F
2nin
)
/r
⌉
ande in = 2nin−1
2nin .
Proof. From Lemma 1,2nin·
(
1−( 2nin−1
2nin )N·r)
positions are needed to encryptN plaintexts,
as Nr table look-ups are required to encryptN plaintexts. This showsF fault positions
enable to computeN =
⌈
logein
(
1− F
2nin
)
/r
⌉
plaintext-ciphertext pairs in advance. The
challenge ciphertext is then included in the precomputed set of plaintext-ciphertext pairs
with probabilityN· 2−n. Otherwise, for givenF distinct fault positions, the challenge
ciphertext can be decrypted with probability upper bounded by(F/2nin)r, as Theorem 5.
A comparative summary ofNdUFbounds is presented in Table 4.
Table 4:NdUFbounds forSPACEciphers underKP-KVandACP-KVfault model.
SPACE-16 SPACE-32
KP-KV (σ(T)
2 ,128) (σ(T)
2 ,128)
ACP-KV (σ(T)
2 ,119.53) (σ(T)
2 ,103.53)
6.4 NdUF Analysis of SPACE Under KP-ACV and KP-CV
In this section, we explain theNdUFanalysis ofSPACEunder theKP-ACVandKP-CV
models. We start with our observation in theKP-ACVsetting. Note that, this observation
will also work in theKP-CVsetting, because inKP-CV, the adversary has more power
as she gets all the fault positions together (need not be adaptive), whereas inKP-ACV,
the adversary receives the fault positions one by one adaptively. In more details, in
KP-ACV, each positionpi is revealed only after the adversary has already committed to
vi−1 =T (pi−1). In contrast, inKP-CV, all positionsp0,p 1,p 2,... are revealed before any
fault values are selected. For Feistel constructions, these positions correspond to inputs
to the underlying PRF table. Therefore, inKP-CV, knowledge of all future positions
enables the adversary to carefully choose current fault values in a way that influences
subsequent table inputs. This additional foresight is unavailable inKP-ACV. We later
provide a dedicated attack in theKP-CVsetting.
6.4.1 NdUF Analysis of SPACE Under KP-ACV.
InKP-ACV, the adversary obtains a fault position and then chooses corresponding fault
values adaptively.
Observation from the Adversarial Model.LetP ={p0,p 1,...,p F−1} denote theF fault
positions obtained by the adversary in theKP-ACVmodel with adaptively chosen fault
values. Also, letT′ is faulty table corresponding toT. The positionpi is received by the
adversary after setting the fault values atT′(pj)for all j < i. Again, assume that for
a messagex = (x0,x 1,...,x w−1), Ii denotes the input to the tableT′ in theith round,
for1 ≤i≤r (whereris the number of rounds). HereI1 =x0. Note that, the adversary
can traverse upto roundi deterministically, if all theI1, I2 to Ii are inP. Hence, the

23
adversary’s goal is to control theIis (control means to ensure they are inP) through the
fault values and the chosen message. We observe that,
Observation 1.For a chosen message x = (x0,x 1,...,x w−1), the valuesIis can be
controlled maximum upto(2w− 1)(i.e., upto I2w−1) rounds by adaptively chosen fault
values, with only two known fault positions forSPACE.
Proof. For the sake of simplicity, we prove this observation using the exampleSPACE-32
(here, r = 128and w = 4), as it has only four branches and the construction is simpler;
note that, exactly the same reasoning applies toSPACE-16as well. We need to show
forSPACE-32, that the adversary can control uptoI7. ForI∈P , ifI = pi, we denote
Order(I) = i. Let, for a chosen plaintextx = (x0∥x1∥x2∥x3), the inputs to the table
corresponding to the first8rounds be given by:
I1 =x 0,(9)
I2 =T′(I1)1⊕x 1,(10)
I3 =T′(I2)1⊕T′(I1)2⊕x 2,(11)
I4 =T′(I3)1⊕T′(I2)2⊕T′(I1)3⊕x 3⊕1,(12)
I5 =T′(I4)1⊕T′(I3)2⊕T′(I2)3⊕I 1⊕2,(13)
I6 =T′(I5)1⊕T′(I4)2⊕T′(I3)3⊕I 2⊕3,(14)
I7 =T′(I6)1⊕T′(I5)2⊕T′(I4)3⊕I 3⊕4,(15)
I8 =T′(I7)1⊕T′(I6)2⊕T′(I5)3⊕I 4⊕5.(16)
Here, T′(Ii)j represents thejth nin-bit word ofT′(Ii), wherej∈{ 1, 2, 3}. The adversary
can simulate the faulty encryption corresponding to the chosenx deterministically when
all Ii∈P . We show that, by controllingx and the fault values ofT′, the adversary can
traverse a maximum of7rounds (i.e., ensureI1,...,I 7∈P ), but has no control overI8.
Note that the adversary can traverse to roundiif she can ensureI1,...,I i∈P.
By appropriately choosingx0,x 1,x 2, and x3, the adversary can ensureIi∈P for all
i∈{1,2,3,4}. We now analyze the possible cases.
1.Order(I 1)≥Order(I 2)≥Order(I 3)≥Order(I 4).
In this case, by choosingx0,x 1,x 2, and x3, we can set up toI4. However, in the
equation forI5, if Order(I1)is greater than both Order(I2),Order (I3), and Order(I4),
then we cannot ensureI5 = T′(I4)1⊕T′(I3)2⊕T′(I2)3⊕I 1⊕ 2, since I1 is received
afterT′(I4)1,T′(I3)2, andT′(I2)3 were set.
If Order(I1)equals one of the others, sayOrder(I2), thenT′(I2)3 is already fixed while
I1 =I2 was received, butT′(I4)1 and T′(I3)2 cannot be set asOrder(I1)is greater
than bothOrder(I4)and Order(I3). The reasoning is similar for other subcases. Hence,
using one fault (in the caseOrder(I1) = Order(I2) = Order(I3) = Order(I4)), the
adversary can traverse at most four rounds (i.e., up toI4).
2.Order(I 1)is the maximum of{Order(I 1),Order(I 2),Order(I 3),Order(I 4)}.
The same reasoning applies. WhetherOrder(I1)is equal to or greater than the others,
the entry T′(I2)3 cannot be used to setI5. Hence, the adversary cannot go beyond
the fourth round. (note that, Case 1 is included in Case 2, but we separate
it to simply show that one fault suffices.)
3.Order(I 2)is the maximum of{Order(I 1),Order(I 2),Order(I 3),Order(I 4)}.
Consider Equation (13). In this case, by appropriately settingT′(I2)3, the adversary
can ensureI5∈P with Order(I5)≤Order (I2). However, in Equation (14) forI6, if
Order(I5) = Order(I2), then T′(I5)1 = T′(I2)1 was already fixed (see Equation (11)).

24 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
(a)First four rounds with first fault position
p0.
(b)Total7-rounds with fault positions p0 and
p1.p 1 is received by the adversary afterp0.
Figure 5:Example forKP-ACV(SPACE-32).
If Order(I5)<Order (I2), then T′(I5)1 cannot be used either, asI2 is received after
I5.For a similar reason,T′(I3)3 and T′(I4)2 cannot be used. Hence, traversal stops
at round five.
4.Order(I 3)is the maximum of{Order(I 1),Order(I 2),Order(I 3),Order(I 4)}.
Following the same reasoning as in Case 3, the adversary can traverse up to the sixth
round.
5.Order(I 4)is the maximum of{Order(I 1),Order(I 2),Order(I 3),Order(I 4)}.
Following the same reasoning as in Case 3, the adversary can traverse up to the
seventh round.
Thus, the adversary can traverse at most seven rounds (i.e., ensureI7∈P ), but has no
control overI8. Following exactly the same way, this result can be shown forSPACE-16as
well. A pictorial example corresponding to this observation is given below in Figure 5.
Suppose the adversary receives the first fault positionp0. She selects a plaintext of
the formx0∥x1∥x2∥x3, wherex0 =p0 and the remaining components are arbitrary. For
simplicity, letx1 =x2 =x3 = 032. The adversary then chooses a fault value at position
p0 such that the subsequent inputs satisfyI2 = I3 = I4 = p0. It can be verified that
assigning the fault valuep0∥0∥1at position p0 achieves this objective (see Figure 5a).
Note that beyond this point, the inputI5 may deviate fromp0, and hence the adversary
may lose control over the subsequent inputs. Next, the adversary receives the second

25
fault positionp1. To regain control, she modifies the plaintext by updatingx3 from0to
x′
3 =p0⊕p 1, thereby forcingI4 =p1. The resulting plaintext becomesp0∥0∥0∥(p0⊕p 1).
Subsequently, the adversary selects an appropriate fault value at positionp1 such that
I5 =I6 =I7 =p1. In particular, choosing the fault value(p0⊕p 1⊕ 3)∥1∥6ensures this
and hence she deterministically computes7th rounds (see Figure 5b).
The above Observation depicts that the adversary can maintain deterministic control
over the internal variables for at most2w− 1rounds. Beyond this point, the structure of the
state evolution prevents further deterministic control. Any additional influence after2w− 1
rounds is therefore no longer fully controlled by the adversary and can probabilistically
occur. In other words, the attack transitions from being structurally driven to being purely
probabilistic.
Deriving a tight and explicit bound for this remaining probabilistic influence requires
carefully tracking dependencies across multiple rounds. We leave the formulation of a
concrete bound as a future extension. Importantly, this does not weaken our main results.
Our observation identifies the precise limit of deterministic control in the adaptive setting.
6.4.2 A Dedicated Attack on SPACE in the KP-CV Setting.
In this section, we describe a dedicated attack onSPACEunderKP-CV. This attack won’t
work in theKP-ACVsetting. InKP-CV, the adversary is first given a sequence of fault
positions (need not be adaptive), and then it chooses the fault values. Below, we provide
an informal description of the attack.
1. Selectt 1 distinct positionsp 0,...,p t1−1 fromP.
2. Consider the plaintextp0∥0nin∥0nin∥···∥ 0nin. By construction, the first input toT′ isI1 =p0.
3. Inject a fault at positionp0 such thatI 2 =I 3 =···=I w−1 =p 0 andI w =p 1.
4. Next, inject a fault at the position p1 so that Iw+1 = Iw+2 = ··· = I2(w−1) =
p1 andI 2(w−1)+1 =p 2.
5. Continue this procedure in the same manner. In general, when the input becomespj and no
fault has been injected yet atpj, then we inject an appropriate fault so that the nextw− 2
inputs remainpj, and the following input transitions topj+1 and if a fault is already injected at
pj then skip.
6. Repeating this process ensuresI(t1−1)(w−1) =p t1−2 andI (t1−1)(w−1)+1 =p t1−1.
7. Finally, inject a suitable fault at the position pt1−1 so that the remaining inputs satisfy
I(t1−1)(w−1)+2 =I (t1−1)(w−1)+3 =···=I r =p t1−1.
8. If additional positions remain in the setP, select the nextt1 unused positions and repeat the
same procedure starting from Step 2 to compute another PT-CT pair.
Key Observation.Let Ii denote the input to the tableT′ at roundi, where1 ≤i≤
r. Observe that if Ii ∈ Pfor some i∈ [(t1− 1)(w− 1) + 1]and no fault has been
injected yet at the positionIi, then by injecting a suitable fault at that position, we can
control the next r− ((t1− 1)(w− 1) + 1)consecutive inputs to T′, wheret1 =⌊ r
w−1⌋,
for r%(w− 1)≤ 1and t1 =⌈ r
w−1⌉, for r%(w− 1) > 1. In particular, it is possible
to force the inputsIi+1,Ii+2,···,I i+(w−1) to take predetermined values. For example,
suppose that I1 = p0 for some p0 ∈P and no fault has been injected atp0 yet. If
we want to enforceI2 = I3 =··· = Iw = p0, then it suffices to inject the fault value
(p0⊕x 1)∥(x1⊕x 2)∥···∥ (xw−3⊕x w−2)∥(xw−2⊕x w−1⊕ 1)at the position p0. This
observation allows the adversary to control multiple future inputs to the tableT′ using
a single fault injection. Using this property, the adversary aims to compute as many
plaintext–ciphertext pairs as possible.

26 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
Attack Procedure.We consider a plaintext p∥0nin∥0nin∥···∥ 0nin, wherep∈P . We
show how the adversary simulates ciphertext computation for such a plaintext. The
attack is presented in Algorithm 1. Here, an adversary can precompute up to
⌊
F
t1
⌋
plaintext–ciphertext pairs in advance. We provide a diagram demonstrating the ciphertext
computation forSPACE-32, in Figure 6
x0 =p 0 0 0 0
T′
p0
0 p0⊕
p1⊕1
T′
p0
0 p0⊕
p1⊕1
T′
p0
0 p0⊕
p1⊕1
T′
3 1 p0⊕
p2⊕6
T′
3 1 p0⊕
p2⊕6
T′
3 1 p0⊕
p2⊕6
T′
p0⊕p 1⊕
2⊕p 2
2⊕p 2
p0⊕
p2⊕7
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
I1 =p 0
I2 =p 0
I3 =p 0
I4 =p 1
I5 =p 1
I6 =p 1
I7 =p 2
z0 z1 z2 z3
T′
v1
41 v2
41 v3
41
T′
v1
41 v2
41 v3
41
T′
v1
41 v2
41 v3
41
T′
v1
42 v2
42 v3
42
T′
v1
42 v2
42 v3
42
124
125
126
127
128
I124 =p 41
I125 =p 41
I126 =p 41
I127 =p 42
I128 =p 42
(a) First7-rounds.
(b) Last5-rounds. Here,
v1
41 =z 1⊕p 41, v2
41 =z 1⊕z 2, v3
41 =
z2⊕z 3⊕124⊕p 41⊕p 42, v1
42 =
z1⊕z 3⊕124⊕125,andv 2
42, v3
42 are
any32-bit value.
Figure 6:Attack underKP-CVforSPACE-32.
Algorithm 1Attack forSPACE- nin with nin = 16, 32in theKP-CVSetting. Here,
w= n
nin
andt 1 =⌊ r
w−1⌋, forr%(w−1)≤1andt 1 =⌈ r
w−1⌉, otherwise.
1:SupposeP={p 0,p 1,···,p F−1}be the set of positions where the adversary can inject faults
2:F←∅, j= 0
3:whilej <Fdo
4:X 0←p j∥0nin∥0nin∥···∥0 nin
5:fori= 0to(w−1)(t 1−1)do
6:ifi%(w−1) = 0then
7:ifi<(w−1)(t 1−1)then
8:v j←temp∥(X i
0⊕X i
w−2⊕X i
w−1⊕(i+ 1)⊕p j+1 )
▷where,temp←(X i
0⊕X i
1)∥(X i
1⊕X i
2)∥···∥(X i
w−3⊕X i
w−2)
9:else
10:v j←temp∥(X i
w−2⊕X i
w−1⊕(i+ 1))
11:F←F∪{(p j,v j )}
12:j←j+ 1
13:ifj≥Fthen
14:break
15:X i←X i⊕(0 nin∥vj )⊕(0 n−nin∥(i+ 1))
16:X i+1←(X i <<n in)⊕(X i >>(n−n in))
17:returnF
Attack Probability.The attack procedure prepares a set of⌊F
t1
⌋many PT-CT pairs among
2128 many pairs. Thus, the challenge ciphertext is in the prepared set with probability

27
⌊F
t1
⌋· 2−n. In particular, the adversary obtains at least one ciphertext with high probability
from the prepared set, after getting(⌊F
t1
⌋· 2−n)−1 ciphertexts. A summary of attack
complexities is presented in Table 5.
Table 5:Attack probabilities forSPACEunderKP-CVfor different values ofF.
Cipher F= σ(T)
2 F= σ(T)
4 F= σ(T)
8 F= σ(T)
16
SPACE-16 2−118.43 2−119.43 2−120.43 2−121.43
SPACE-32 2−102.43 2−103.43 2−104.43 2−105.43
6.5 A Practical NdUF Attack of SPACE Under CP-CV
In this section, we present a highly practical attack technique againstSPACEassuming
fault injections intoF table entries. In theCP-CVmodel, the adversary chooses a sequence
of fault positions as well as the corresponding fault values. So our target is to select
a set of fault positionsP in such a way that, by injecting appropriate fault values at
these positions, we can deterministically compute the ciphertext for any plaintext of
the formx0∥x1∥···∥x w−1, wherexi∈P for alli∈{ 0, 1,···,w− 1}. In particular, all
inputs Ii to T′ remain within the setP, ensuring that the overall computation proceeds
deterministically. Consequently, the adversary aims to computeFw plaintext-ciphertext
(PT-CT) pairs.
Key Observation.To achieve this goal, we need to select a suitable set of fault positions
along with the corresponding fault values. Suppose that we inject the fault value0n−nin
at each of the selected positions. Then, the problem reduces to constructing the fault
position setP.
Before providing the exact description of the setP, consider the following observation.
Let us assume that we want to compute the ciphertexts corresponding to the plaintexts
xj0∥xj1∥···∥x jw−1, where ji∈{ 0, 1,···,w− 1},∀0≤i≤w− 1. Then observe that
we can deterministically compute the ciphertexts corresponding to these plaintexts if
xi⊕z∈P,∀ 0≤i≤w− 1, 0≤z≤r . That is, for each componentxji, all the positions
obtained by XORingxi with everyz∈{ 0, 1,...,r} must belong toP. In particular, this
implies that if we select a fault positionp∈P , then we must also include all positions
of the formp⊕z,∀ 0≤z≤r , in the setP. Observe that this operation affects only the
t2 = (⌊logr⌋ + 1)least significant bits ofp, while the remaining higher-order bits remain
unchanged. Hence, we can construct the setP as follows. Select an arbitrary strings from
the set{0, 1}nin−t2, and include all positions of the forms∥i, 0≤i≤ 2t2− 1, inP. Thus,
each choice ofs contributes a block of size2t2 positions. Consequently, to construct the set
P with F elements, it suffices to selectF
2t2 distinct elements from the set{0, 1}nin−t2 and
append all possiblet2-bit strings to each of these elements. The exact attack procedure is
described below.
Attack Procedure.For this attack, to deterministically compute the ciphertext cor-
responding to any plaintext of the formx0∥x1∥···∥x w−1, where xi ∈ Pfor all i∈
{0,1,···,w−1}, the fault positions and values are selected as follows:
1. Choose F
2t2 distinct elementss0,s 1,...,s ( F
2t2−1) from{0, 1}nin−t2, wheret2 = (⌊logr⌋ + 1)is
the number of bits used for round constant.
2. For eachsi, include all the stringssi∥s in the setP, wheres∈{ 0, 1}t2. It means, for every
fixeds i, we include all2t2 extensions obtained by appending at2-bit suffix.
3. Inject the fault value0n−nin at each position belonging to the setP.

28 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
Algorithm 2Attack forSPACEin theCP-
CVSetting. Heret 2 = (⌊logr⌋+ 1).
1:F←∅
2: Choose distinct elementss0,s 1,···,s F
2t2−1 from
{0,1} nin−t2
3:fori= 0to F
2t2 −1do
4:fors= 0to2 t2−1do
5:F←F∪{(s i∥s,0 n−nin )}
6:returnF
Table 6:Attack probabilities forSPACE
underCP-CVfor different values ofF.
Cipher F= σ(T)
2 F= σ(T)
4 F= σ(T)
8 F= σ(T)
16
SPACE-16 2−8 2−16 2−24 2−32
SPACE-32 2−4 2−8 2−12 2−16
x0 x1 x2 x3
T′
0 0 0
T′
0 0 0
T′
0 0 0
... ... ... ...
T′
0 0 0
T′
0 0 0
1
2
3
r−1
r
I1
I2
I3
Ir−1
Ir
Figure 7:Attack underCP-CVforSPACE-
32. Here,x 0, x1, x2,andx 3 belong toP.
By injecting the fault0n−nin at every position inP, for any inputx0∥...∥x w−1 with
xi∈P , all intermediateIjs are ensured inP for everyj∈ [r]. Consequently, the adversary
can deterministically compute the corresponding ciphertext. Hence, the adversary can
compute Fw many PT-CT pairs in advance. The procedure is described in Algorithm 2.
The attack is illustrated in Figure 7.
Attack probability.Here, Fw many PT-CT pairs can be prepared in advance (total
PT-CT pairs is2n). Thus, the challenge ciphertext is in the prepared set with probability
Fw· 2−n. In particular, with high probability, the adversary obtains at least one ciphertext
from the prepared set after obtaining(Fw· 2−n)−1 ciphertexts. A comparative summary
is presented in Table 6.
7 Software-Based Fault Detection Technique
A popular hardware-based fault detection technique is hardware redundancy (i.e., dual
modular redundancy), where two identical modules perform the same operation with
the same inputs. As it is difficult to inject the same fault in both simultaneously, faults
are detected from mismatched outputs. In the white-box setting, this technique may be
ineffective as the adversary has full control over fault injection, making it easier to inject
the same fault into multiple copies.
We present a procedure that can detect the presence of faults with a high probability. We
assume the server hosts the correct implementation which is inaccessible to the adversary,
and the user initiates detection by sending aStartsignal to the server; the remaining
process is as follows.

29
The server proceeds as follows:
1. It selectsℓ positions i0,...,i ℓ−1 independently and uniformly at random, and letT(ij ) = xij
for eachj∈{ 0, 1,...,ℓ− 1}. Here,nin and nout denote the input and output sizes of the table
T, respectively. We employ a white-box secure block cipherE with block sizen; for simplicity,
we may assumen= 128.
2.∀j∈{0,...,ℓ−1}, it computesc j←E−1
K
(
ij∥xij∥0 n−nin−nout
)
.
3. It then formsc←c 0∥···∥c ℓ−1 and sendscto the user.
Upon receivingc, the user performs the following steps:
1.∀j∈{0,...,ℓ−1}, compute
(
ij∥xij∥0 n−nin−nout
)
←E K(cj ).
2. Verify whetherxij =x′
ij holds for allj∈{ 0, 1,...,ℓ− 1}, wherex′
ij denotes the value stored
in the user’s table at positionij.
3. If∃jsuch thatx ij̸=x′
ij, the algorithm outputs that a fault has been injected.
Lemma 3.For given F faulted entries of the user’s table with2nin entries, the above
procedure can detect a fault with the probability lower bounded byℓ·F
2(nin +1).
Proof. Let us assume thatA is the event of fault detection andP is the set of fault
positions. From the above algorithm, the fault will be detected ifxij̸=x′
ij for at least one
j∈{0,1,···,ℓ−1}. Then, the probability of detecting fault is,
Pr[A] =
ℓ−1∑
j=0
Pr[ij∈P∧x ij̸=x′
ij]
=
ℓ−1∑
j=0
Pr[xij̸=x′
ij|ij∈P]·Pr[i j∈P]
=
ℓ−1∑
j=0
(1− 1
2nin
)· F
2nin
≥
ℓ−1∑
j=0
1
2· F
2nin
= ℓ·F
2(nin+1)
For each case listed in Table 7, the probability of fault detection satisfiesPr[A]≥ 1
2.
Thus, if the user’s table contains faults in a sufficiently large number of positions, then it
will be detected with high probability.
Table 7:Cases where fault detection succeeds with probability at least1
2.
F σ(T)
2
σ(T)
4
σ(T)
8
σ(T)
16
ℓ 2 4 8 16
Overhead:
We would like to mention that, in our fault detection technique, the overhead consists ofℓ
decryptions on the server side andℓ encryptions plus verification on the client side, where
ℓ can be as small as 2 (as mentioned in Table 7). Furthermore, it could be reasonable to
assume that the verification is performed periodically rather than after every execution,
which may reduce the practical cost.

30 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
8 Conclusion
In this work, we propose a fault-injection framework in the white-box setting, where the
adversary can inject precise faults into the implementation locally. This model is practically
stronger than the leakage-based ones, since the malware does not need to communicate a
large amount of data to its remote adversary. Instead, it can locally inject faults to weaken
the cipher. In contrast, in leakage-based settings, the malware must extract and transmit
sensitive information to a remote entity.
Although existing designs have been proven secure in the white-box leakage-based
incompressibility setting, we show that they exhibit a different behaviour under fault
injection. In particular, we demonstrate that dedicated white-box ciphers based on SPN
structures, such asWEMandSPNbox, achieve strong security even in this fault-based
setting. On the other hand, white-box ciphers based on Feistel structures, such asSPACE
andGalaxy, become highly insecure when the adversary can choose fault locations and
values. This model is practical as the remote adversary can preprogram its malware to
choose fault positions and values of its choice.
References
[1] Adobe Systems Incorporated. Adobe primetime technical primer for operators. Tech-
nical report, Adobe Systems Incorporated, 2014.
[2] Smart Card Alliance et al. Host card emulation (hce) 101.A Smart Card Alliance
Mobile and NFC Council White Paper, 2014.
[3] Olivier Billet, Henri Gilbert, and Charaf Ech-Chatbi. Cryptanalysis of a white box
AES implementation. In Helena Handschuh and Anwar Hasan, editors,SAC 2004:
11th Annual International Workshop on Selected Areas in Cryptography, volume 3357
ofLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 227–240, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada,
August 9–10, 2004. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Germany.
[4] Alex Biryukov, Charles Bouillaguet, and Dmitry Khovratovich. Cryptographic schemes
based on the ASASA structure: Black-box, white-box, and public-key (extended
abstract). In Palash Sarkar and Tetsu Iwata, editors,Advances in Cryptology –
ASIACRYPT 2014, Part I, volume 8873 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages
63–84, Kaoshiung, Taiwan, R.O.C., December 7–11, 2014. Springer Berlin Heidelberg,
Germany.
[5] Alex Biryukov and Adi Shamir. Structural cryptanalysis of SASAS.Journal of
Cryptology, 23(4):505–518, October 2010.
[6] Andrey Bogdanov and Takanori Isobe. White-box cryptography revisited: Space-hard
ciphers. In Indrajit Ray, Ninghui Li, and Christopher Kruegel, editors,ACM CCS
2015: 22nd Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pages 1058–1069,
Denver, CO, USA, October 12–16, 2015. ACM Press.
[7] Andrey Bogdanov, Takanori Isobe, and Elmar Tischhauser. Towards practical white-
box cryptography: Optimizing efficiency and space hardness. In Jung Hee Cheon
and Tsuyoshi Takagi, editors,Advances in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT 2016, Part I,
volume 10031 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 126–158, Hanoi, Vietnam,
December 4–8, 2016. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Germany.
[8] Julia Borghoff, Lars R. Knudsen, Gregor Leander, and Søren S. Thomsen. Slender-set
differential cryptanalysis.Journal of Cryptology, 26(1):11–38, January 2013.

31
[9] Julien Bringer, Hervé Chabanne, and Emmanuelle Dottax. White box cryptography:
Another attempt.Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2006.
[10] Avik Chakraborti, Shibam Ghosh, Takanori Isobe, and Sajani Kundu. EWEMrl: A
white-box secure cipher with longevity.IACR Communications in Cryptology (CiC),
2(4):21, 2026.
[11] Jihoon Cho, Kyu Young Choi, Itai Dinur, Orr Dunkelman, Nathan Keller, Dukjae
Moon, and Aviya Veidberg. WEM: A new family of white-box block ciphers based on
the Even-Mansour construction. In Helena Handschuh, editor,Topics in Cryptology –
CT-RSA 2017, volume 10159 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 293–308,
San Francisco, CA, USA, February 14–17, 2017. Springer, Cham, Switzerland.
[12] Stanley Chow, Philip A. Eisen, Harold Johnson, and Paul C. van Oorschot. A
white-box DES implementation for DRM applications. In Joan Feigenbaum, editor,
Security and Privacy in Digital Rights Management, ACM CCS-9 Workshop, DRM
2002, Washington, DC, USA, November 18, 2002, Revised Papers, volume 2696 of
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 1–15. Springer, 2002.
[13] Stanley Chow, Philip A. Eisen, Harold Johnson, and Paul C. van Oorschot. White-
box cryptography and an AES implementation. In Kaisa Nyberg and Howard M.
Heys, editors,SAC 2002: 9th Annual International Workshop on Selected Areas in
Cryptography, volume 2595 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 250–270,
St. John’s, Newfoundland, Canada, August 15–16, 2003. Springer Berlin Heidelberg,
Germany.
[14] Pierre-Alain Fouque, Pierre Karpman, Paul Kirchner, and Brice Minaud. Efficient
and provable white-box primitives. In Jung Hee Cheon and Tsuyoshi Takagi, editors,
Advances in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT 2016, Part I, volume 10031 ofLecture Notes
in Computer Science, pages 159–188, Hanoi, Vietnam, December 4–8, 2016. Springer
Berlin Heidelberg, Germany.
[15] J. Alex Halderman, Seth D. Schoen, Nadia Heninger, William Clarkson, William Paul,
Joseph A. Calandrino, Ariel J. Feldman, Jacob Appelbaum, and Edward W. Felten.
Lest we remember: Cold boot attacks on encryption keys. In Paul C. van Oorschot,
editor,USENIX Security 2008: 17th USENIX Security Symposium, pages 45–60, San
Jose, CA, USA, July 28 – August 1, 2008. USENIX Association.
[16] Hong Hu, Shweta Shinde, Sendroiu Adrian, Zheng Leong Chua, Prateek Saxena, and
Zhenkai Liang. Data-oriented programming: On the expressiveness of non-control
data attacks. InProceedings of the 2016 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy
(SP), pages 969–986. IEEE Computer Society, 2016.
[17] Kyriakos K. Ispoglou, Bader AlBassam, Trent Jaeger, and Mathias Payer. Block
oriented programming: Automating data-only attacks. InProceedings of the 2018
ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, CCS ’18,
pages 1868–1882, New York, NY, USA, 2018. Association for Computing Machinery.
[18] Mohamed Karroumi. Protecting white-box AES with dual ciphers. In Kyung Hyune
Rhee and DaeHun Nyang, editors,ICISC 10: 13th International Conference on
Information Security and Cryptology, volume 6829 ofLecture Notes in Computer
Science, pages 278–291, Seoul, Korea, December 1–3, 2011. Springer Berlin Heidelberg,
Germany.
[19] Yuji Koike and Takanori Isobe. Yoroi: Updatable whitebox cryptography.IACR
Transactions on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems, 2021(4):587–617,
2021.

32 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
[20] Yuji Koike, Kosei Sakamoto, Takuya Hayashi, and Takanori Isobe. Galaxy: A family
of stream-cipher-based space-hard ciphers. In Joseph K. Liu and Hui Cui, editors,
ACISP 20: 25th Australasian Conference on Information Security and Privacy, volume
12248 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 142–159, Perth, WA, Australia,
November 30 – December 2, 2020. Springer, Cham, Switzerland.
[21] William Kosasih, Yusi Feng, Chitchanok Chuengsatiansup, Yuval Yarom, and Ziyuan
Zhu. Sok: Can we really detect cache side-channel attacks by monitoring performance
counters? InProceedings of the 2024 ACM Asia Conference on Computer and
Communications Security (ASIA CCS ’24), pages 171–185, New York, NY, USA,
2024. Association for Computing Machinery.
[22] Thomas Lepoint, Mathieu Rivain, Yannick Mulder, Peter Roelse, and Bart Preneel.
Two attacks on a white-box aes implementation. In Tanja Lange, Kristin Lauter, and
Petr Lisonek, editors,Selected Areas in Cryptography – SAC 2013, volume 8282 of
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 265–285. Springer, Heidelberg, 2014.
[23] Hamilton E Link and William D Neumann. Clarifying obfuscation: Improving the
security of white-box des. InInternational Conference on Information Technology:
Coding and Computing (ITCC’05)-Volume II, volume 1, pages 679–684. IEEE, 2005.
[24] Mastercard. Mobile SDK Integration . 2026. https://developer.
mastercard.com/mastercard-gateway/documentation/integrations-types/
mobile-integration/integrate-mobile-payments/mob-sdk-int/.
[25] Brice Minaud, Patrick Derbez, Pierre-Alain Fouque, and Pierre Karpman. Key-
recovery attacks on ASASA. In Tetsu Iwata and Jung Hee Cheon, editors,Advances in
Cryptology – ASIACRYPT 2015, Part II, volume 9453 ofLecture Notes in Computer
Science, pages 3–27, Auckland, New Zealand, November 30 – December 3, 2015.
Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Germany.
[26] Mobey Forum. The host card emulation in payments: Options for financial institutions.
White paper, Mobey Forum, 2014.
[27] Yannick Mulder, Peter Roelse, and Bart Preneel. Cryptanalysis of the xiao–lai white-
box aes implementation. In Lawrie R. Knudsen and Huapeng Wu, editors,Selected
Areas in Cryptography – SAC 2012, volume 7707 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science,
pages 34–49. Springer, Heidelberg, 2013.
[28] Tyge Tiessen, Lars R. Knudsen, Stefan Kölbl, and Martin M. Lauridsen. Security of
the AES with a secret S-box. In Gregor Leander, editor,Fast Software Encryption –
FSE 2015, volume 9054 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 175–189, Istanbul,
Turkey, March 8–11, 2015. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Germany.
[29] Workgroup Mobey, H.C.E. Forum. The host card emulation in payments: Options
for financial institutions. Technical report, Mobey Forum, 2014.
[30] Hongjun Wu. Related-cipher attacks. In Robert H. Deng, Sihan Qing, Feng Bao, and
Jianying Zhou, editors,ICICS 02: 4th International Conference on Information and
Communication Security, volume 2513 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages
447–455, Singapore, December 9–12, 2002. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Germany.
[31] Brecht Wyseur, Wil Michiels, Paul Gorissen, and Bart Preneel. Cryptanalysis of white-
box DES implementations with arbitrary external encodings. In Carlisle M. Adams, Ali
Miri, and Michael J. Wiener, editors,SAC 2007: 14th Annual International Workshop
on Selected Areas in Cryptography, volume 4876 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science,
pages 264–277, Ottawa, Canada, August 16–17, 2007. Springer Berlin Heidelberg,
Germany.

33
[32] Yaying Xiao and Xuejia Lai. A secure implementation of white-box aes. In2009 2nd
International Conference on Computer Science and its Applications, pages 1–6. IEEE,
2009.
Appendix
A Relation Between Various Adversarial Models
(a)KP-ACVreduces toKP-CV.
 (b)CP-KVreduces toACP-KV.
Figure 8:Reduction ofKP-ACVtoKP-CVandCP-KVtoACP-KV.
B NdUF Analysis of Galaxy
In this section, we provide theNdUFanalysis ofGalaxyunder theKP-KV,CP-KV,ACP-KV,
and attack underKP-CV,CP-CVadversarial models. We first specifyGalaxybelow.
B.1 NdUF Analysis of Galaxy Under KP-KV
In this section, we analyze the bound for(F,D )-NdUFsecurity ofGalaxyinKP-KVattack
setting. To evaluateNdUFbounds under theKP-KVattack, we propose Theorem 7.
Theorem 7.Given F distinct fault values and their corresponding positions in each table
underKP-KVattack setting for the table T (containing2 nin entries each ofnin-bits) of a
white-box implementation ofGalaxy, it is infeasible for any adversary to decrypt a faulty
ciphertext corresponding to any randomly chosen plaintext with a probability of more than( F
2nin
)w
2·r
, where r is the total number of rounds andw is the number ofnin-bit blocks in
each round.

34 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
Proof. GivenF distinct fault values and their corresponding positions, each look-up of
the table is included in the fault values with probabilityF
2nin. As the number ofnin-bit
branches in each round isw, the same tableT′ is used w
2 times in each of ther rounds.
Thus, the adversary can decrypt a faulty ciphertext corresponding to any random plaintext
with probability
( F
2nin
)w
2·r
.
A comparative summary ofNdUFbounds for theGalaxyciphers under theKP-KVfault
model is presented in Table 8.
Table 8:NdUFbounds forGalaxyciphers
underKP-KVfault model.
Galaxy-16 Galaxy-32
KP-KV (σ(T)
22 ,128) (σ(T)
22 ,128)
Table 9:NdUFbounds forGalaxyciphers
underACP-KVfault model.
Galaxy-16 Galaxy-32
ACP-KV (σ(T)
22 ,118.80) (σ(T)
22 ,102.80)
B.2 NdUF Analysis of Galaxy Under CP-KV
For similar reasons, described in Section 6.2, theNdUFbound ofGalaxyis
( F
2nin
)w
2·r
and
the bounds for specific instances are the same as Table 8.
B.3 NdUF Analysis of Galaxy Under ACP-KV
In this section, we evaluateNdUFsecurity bounds under theACP-KVmodel and propose
Theorem 8, which is similar to Theorem 6 except for the number of table look-ups.
Theorem 8.For F distinct fault positions under theACP-KVmodel for tableT (containing
2nin entries each ofnin-bits) of the white-box implementation ofGalaxy, it is infeasible for
any adversary to decrypt the challenge ciphertext corresponding to any randomly chosen
plaintext with probability higher thanN· 2−n +(1−N· 2−n)·( F
2nin )
w
2·r, whereein = 2nin−1
2nin ,
ris the total number of rounds andN=
⌈
2·logein (1− F
2nin )
w·r
⌉
.
Proof. From Lemma 1, we observe that2nin·
(
1−( 2nin−1
2nin )N· w
2·r)
positions are needed
to encryptN plaintexts, asN· w
2·r table look-ups are required to encryptN plaintexts.
This shows thatF fault positions enable to computeN =
⌈
2·logein (1− F
2nin )
w·r
⌉
plaintext-
ciphertext pairs in advance. The challenge ciphertext is then included in the precomputed
set of plaintext-ciphertext pairs with probabilityN· 2−128. Otherwise, for givenF distinct
fault positions, the challenge ciphertext can be decrypted with probability(F/2nin)
w
2·r, as
Theorem 7.
A comparative summary of attack complexities for theGalaxyciphers under theACP-KV
fault model is presented in Table 9.
B.4 NdUF Analysis of Galaxy Under KP-CV
In this section, we present an attack technique forGalaxyagainst theKP-CVmodel. The
attack strategy in this construction is conceptually similar to theKP-CVattack described
forSPACEin Section 6.4.2. However, there are two important differences in the construction
ofGalaxy. First, in each round, the construction invokes the functionG, w
2 times. Second,
both the input and output sizes of the functionG are ofnin bits. These differences affect
how the adversary can control the inputs to the function during the attack. Also, the total
number of rounds isr =nin. Consequently, the attack technique forGalaxydiffers slightly
from that forSPACE.

35
Key Observation.In this attack, we use the same input for allw
2 tables within a round,
allowing a plaintext–ciphertext pair to be computed using a smaller number of table inputs.
Let Ii denote the input to all tablesT in theith round, for1 ≤i≤ (r− 1). For this
construction, we observe that ifIi∈P for somei∈ [r− 1]and no fault has been injected
yet at the positionIi, then by injecting a suitable fault at that position for the plaintext
of the formI1∥x1∥I1∥x1∥...∥I 1∥x1, we can control the input to the tableT only for the
next round. Thus, the inputIi+1 can only be forced to take the predetermined values. For
example, we assume thatI1 =p0 for somep0∈P and no fault value is injected at the
position p0 yet. If we wantI2 =p0, then we have to inject the fault valuep0⊕x 1⊕1at the
position p0. In the case of the same input for eachw
2 tables within a round, the remaining
w
2 manynin-bits of that round must be the same. With this property, the adversary tries
to compute as many plaintext-ciphertext pairs as possible.
Attack Procedure.In this attack, we consider the plaintexts which are of the form
p∥0nin∥p∥0nin∥···∥p∥ 0nin, where p∈P . The procedure of computing the ciphertext
corresponding to such a plaintext is described as follows.
1. Select(r−1)positionsp 0,p 1,···,p r−2 from the set of fault positionsP.
2. Consider p =p0 i.e., the plaintext isp∥0nin∥p∥0nin∥···∥p∥ 0nin. Thus, the input to the table
forGin the first round isI 1 =p 0.
3. Inject a suitable fault value at the positionp0 such thatI 2 =p 1.
4. Next, inject a suitable fault value at the positionp1 to obtainI 3 =p 2 and so on.
5. Repeating this process ensures thatIr−2 =p r−3 andI r−1 =p r−2.
6. Finally, inject a suitable fault value at the positionpr−2 so that the next inputIr−1 =p r−2.
7. If there exist positions inP other than the above-mentioned(r− 1)positions, select another
(r− 1)unused position and repeat from Step 2 in order to compute another plaintext-ciphertext
pair.
Using this attack procedure,(r− 1)different fault positions are required to compute one
plaintext-ciphertext pair. Hence,⌊ F
(r−1)⌋ many plaintext-ciphertext pairs can be computed,
for F faults. The algorithm for choosing fault values corresponding to the given positions
is given in the Algorithm 3.
Algorithm 3Attack forGalaxyin theKP-
CVSetting.
1: Suppose P = {p0,p 1,···,p F−1} be the set of
positions where the adversary can inject faults
2:F←∅, j= 0
3:whilej <Fdo
4:X 0←p j∥0nin∥···∥p j∥0nin
5:fori= 0to(r−2)do
6:ifi= 0then
7:v j←p j+1⊕(i+ 1)
8:else if0<i<(r−2)then
9:v j←p j+1⊕p j−1⊕(i+ 1)
10:else
11:v j←p j−1⊕p j⊕(i+ 1)
12:F←F∪{(p j,v j )}
13:j←j+ 1
14:returnF
Algorithm 4Attack forGalaxyin theCP-
CVSetting. Heret 2 = (⌊logr⌋+ 1).
1:F←∅
2: Choose distinct elementss0,s 1,···,s F
2t2−1 from
the set{0,1} nin−t2
3:fori= 0to F
2t2 −1do
4:fors= 0to2 t2−1do
5:F←F∪{(s i∥s,0 nin )}
6:returnF
Attack Probability.The attack procedure prepares a set of⌊ F
(r−1)⌋ many PT-CT pairs
among2 n = 2128 many PT-CT pairs. Thus, the challenge ciphertext is included in the
prepared set with probability⌊ F
(r−1)⌋· 2−n. In particular, the adversary obtains at least one
ciphertext from the prepared set, after getting(⌊ F
(r−1)⌋· 2−n)−1 ciphertexts. A comparative

36 On the Fault Injection Security of White-box Ciphers
summary of attack complexities for theGalaxyciphers under theKP-CVfault model is
presented in Table 10.
Table 10:Attack probability forGalaxy
underKP-CVfor different values ofF.
Cipher F= σ(T)
2 F= σ(T)
4 F= σ(T)
8 F= σ(T)
16
Galaxy-16 2−116.91 2−117.91 2−118.91 2−119.91
Galaxy-32 2−101.95 2−102.95 2−103.95 2−104.95
Table 11:Attack probability forGalaxy
underCP-CVfor different values ofF.
Cipher F= σ(T)
2 F= σ(T)
4 F= σ(T)
8 F= σ(T)
16
Galaxy-16 2−8 2−16 2−24 2−32
Galaxy-32 2−4 2−8 2−12 2−16
B.5 NdUF Analysis of Galaxy Under CP-CV
In this section, we present an attack technique forGalaxyassuming fault injections intoF
table entries against theCP-CVmodel. This attack strategy is conceptually similar to the
attack forSPACEdescribed in Section 6.5.
Key Observation.For this model, the adversary can choose the set of fault positions
P with cardinalityF such that it is possible to deterministically compute the ciphertext
corresponding to any plaintext of the formx0∥x1∥···∥x w−1, wherexi∈P for alli∈
{0, 1,···,w− 1}, by injecting appropriate fault values at these positions. In particular, all
inputs to the table corresponding toG for a total ofr rounds are included in the setP.
Consequently, the adversary aims to computeFw plaintext-ciphertext (PT-CT) pairs.
Attack Procedure.In this attack, to ensure deterministic computation of the ciphertext
for any plaintext of the formx0∥x1∥···∥x w−1, wherexi∈P for alli∈{ 0, 1,···,w− 1},
the fault positions are selected as follows:
1. Choose F
2t2 distinct elementss0,s 1,...,s ( F
2t2−1) from the set{0, 1}nin−t2, wheret2 = (⌊logr⌋ +
1)is the maximum number of bits used for round constant.
2. For eachsi, include all string of the formsi∥s in the setP, wheres∈{ 0, 1}t2, as the maximum
number of round isr, at2-bits number. In other words, for every fixed prefixsi, all possible2 t2
many positions are obtained by appendingt2-bit suffixes.
3. Inject the fault value0nin at each of the positions ofP.
With this choice ofP and injecting all fault values0nin, all the intermediate inputs
for any plaintext of the formx0∥x1∥···∥x w−1 with xi∈P for alli∈{ 0, 1,···,w− 1}.
Consequently, those plaintexts can be encrypted deterministically. Hence, the adversary
can computeFw many PT-CT pairs in advance. The algorithm for choosing fault positions
and values is given in the Algorithm 4.
Attack Probability.From the attack, Fw many PT-CT pairs can be computed in advance.
Thus, the challenge ciphertext is included in the prepared set with probabilityFw· 2−n.
In particular, after(Fw· 2−n)−1 ciphertexts, the adversary obtains at least one ciphertext
from the prepared set. A comparative summary is presented in Table 11.