SEEMless: Secure End-to-End Encrypted Messaging
with less Trust
Melissa Chase
Microsoft Research
melissac@microsoft.com
Apoorvaa Deshpande
Brown University
apoorvaa_deshpande@brown.edu
Esha Ghosh
Microsoft Research
esha.ghosh@microsoft.com
Harjasleen Malvai
Cornell University
hm553@cornell.edu
ABSTRACT
End-to-end encrypted messaging (E2E) is only secure if partici-
pants have a way to retrieve the correct public key for the desired
recipient. However, to make these systems usable, users must be
able to replace their keys (e.g. when they lose or reset their devices,
or reinstall their app), and we cannot assume any cryptographic
means of authenticating the new keys. In the current E2E systems,
the service provider manages the directory of public keys of its reg-
istered users; this allows a compromised or coerced service provider
to introduce their own keys and execute a man in the middle attack.
Building on the approach of CONIKS (Melara et al, USENIX Secu-
rity ‘15), we formalize the notion of a Privacy-Preserving Verifiable
Key Directory (VKD): a system which allows users to monitor the
keys that the service is distributing on their behalf. We then propose
a new VKD scheme which we call SEEMless, which improves on
prior work in terms of privacy and scalability. In particular, our new
approach allows key changes to take effect almost immediately; we
show experimentally that our scheme easily supports delays less
than a minute, in contrast to previous work which proposes a delay
of one hour.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Security and privacy → Key management ; Privacy-
preserving protocols; Privacy protections; Public key encryp-
tion; Pseudonymity, anonymity and untraceability; Social network
security and privacy;
KEYWORDS
Privacy-preserving verifiable directory service; Zero knowledge
sets; Accumulators; Persistent Patricia Trie; History Tree; PKI;
Transparency; Security definitions
ACM Reference Format:
Melissa Chase, Apoorvaa Deshpande, Esha Ghosh, and Harjasleen Malvai.
2019. SEEMless: Secure End-to-End Encrypted Messaging with less Trust.
In 2019 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
CCS ’19, November 11–15, 2019, London, United Kingdom
© 2019 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-6747-9/19/11. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3319535.3363202
(CCS ’19), November 11–15, 2019, London, United Kingdom. ACM, New York,
NY, USA, 18 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3319535.3363202
1 INTRODUCTION
A number of popular messaging apps such as iMessage, WhatsApp
and Signal have recently deployed end-to-end encryption (E2EE)
in an attempt to mitigate some of the serious privacy concerns
that arise in these services. E2EE is a system of communication
where only encrypted messages leave the sender’s device. These
messages are then downloaded and decrypted on the recipient’s
device, ensuring that only the communicating users can read the
messages. But E2EE relies on a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI); this
in practice requires the provider of the messaging service (such as
Apple, Facebook, Microsoft etc.) to maintain a centralized directory
of the public keys of its registered users. To be accessible to average
users, these systems assume the user will store her secret key on
her personal device, and do not assume she has any other way to
store long term secrets. When a user loses her device (and thus her
secret key), she will need to generate a new (secret key, public key)
pair and replace her old public key stored in the PKI with the newly
generated public key.
Such a system naturally places a lot of trust in the service
provider – a malicious service provider (or one who is compelled to
act maliciously, possibly because of a compromise) can arbitrarily
set and reset users’ public keys. It might, for example replace an hon-
est user’s public key with one whose secret key it knows, and thus
implement a man-in-the-middle attack without the communicating
users ever noticing. Ironically, this defeats the purpose of E2EE.
Without some way of verifying that the service provider is indeed
returning the correct keys, E2E encryption does not provide any
protection against malicious (or coerced) service providers. This
problem has been well recognized as an important and challenging
open problem [14, 20, 25].
Some service providers provide a security setting option to no-
tify a sender when a recipient’s public key changes. In WhatsApp,
the sender can scan a QR code on the recipient’s device to verify
the authenticity of the new public key. Skype encrypted messaging
provides a similar interface for checking fingerprints. This option,
however, is turned off by default to provide a seamless user expe-
rience. Moreover, the communicating users will be able to verify
each other’s QR codes only if their devices are physically close
to each other, which is most often not the case. And these fea-
tures are something few users use, as is evidently uncovered in this
Man-in-the-Middle attack [1].

To enable E2EE with real security, we need to keep the inher-
ent constraints of the system in mind. To begin with, the primary
objective of any E2EE messaging system is to provide a secure and
seamless communication service between remote users. This prob-
lem is made even more challenging by the fact that we must assume
that a user can lose her device and along with it all of her secrets.
Moreover, in our attempt to reduce trust on the service provider,
we must not introduce any new attack surface. For example, if we
introduce a mechanism that will enable a user to verify that she is
receiving the correct key of the intended recipient, this mechanism
should not leak any additional information about the other users
and the public keys they have registered with the service provider.
Privacy may not be very important in a traditional PKI, where all the
players are usually public entities like businesses, but in the context
of private messaging, privacy is very important. Hiding usernames
may help prevent spam messaging. And the user’s update pattern
may itself be sensitive information. Users change their keys primar-
ily when they change devices, or detect that their devices/keys have
been compromised, either of which may be sensitive. Moreover, if
a user rarely changes her key, then compromising her secret key
gives the attacker the ability to decrypt large volumes of messages
at once, making her a more vulnerable and attractive target. Or if a
device is compromised but the user does not update her key, then
the attacker knows the compromise has gone undetected.
Keeping these inherent constraints in mind, we design and pro-
vide a prototype implementation of SEEMless, a verifiable key direc-
tory service for end-user key verification and initiate the study of
the privacy and security guarantees of such a key directory service
formally. In our design, we follow the basic approach introduced
by by Melara et al. in [20], in which the service provider maintains
the public key directory as described above, but each user is in
charge of verifying that the public key that the service provider
is presenting on their behalf is correct. (We call this key monitor-
ing.) To facilitate this, the service provider will at regular intervals
(called epochs) publish commitment of the latest directory. When
responding to queries (either from Bob looking up Alice’s key or
from Alice monitoring her own key) it will then prove that the
response is correct with respect to the current commitment.
Our major contributions are the following.
Contributions: Here we highlight the significant contributions of
this work and contrast them with the existing privacy-preserving
key directory services for encrypted messaging [3, 20, 26].
(A) Formalizing key directory
(1) We formalize the security and privacy requirements of a verifi-
able key directory service, (such CONIKS [20, 26], EthIKS [3]),
in terms of a new primitive that we call Verifiable Key Direc-
tories (VKD) (Section 2). To the best of our knowledge, this is
the first formal treatment of VKD, which is absent in all the
prior works [3, 20, 26].
(2) Proving security of any VKD system (including our instantia-
tion, SEEMless) in our framework requires specifying a precise
leakage function. This leads to a better understanding of the
privacy guarantee of any VKD system. As a concrete exam-
ple, we were able to identify a tracing attack in existing VKD
systems [3, 20, 26].
(B) New primitives, modular and principled design
(1) We take a modular and principled approach in designing our
VKD system, SEEMless (Section 4). We first define a new prim-
itive, Append-Only Zero Knowledge Set (aZKS) and construct
SEEMless using aZKS in a blackbox way. Then we construct
aZKS modularly from a strong accumulator [4] and a verifiable
random function [6]. None of the prior works [3, 20, 26] has
a modular approach in designing their systems which makes
it hard to reason about those constructions and improve on
them. With our modular design, we significantly simplify the
presentation and analysis and allow for independent study of
each of the building blocks: an improvement in any of them
would directly translate to improvement in SEEMless.
(2) Our new primitive aZKS (that acts as the building block for
SEEMless) generalizes the definition of a traditional static zero-
knowledge set [5, 21] by accounting for verifiable updates and
could be of independent interest.
(C) Persistent Patricia Trie
(1) SEEMless requires the server to maintain history of all the
key updates (along with proofs) from its registered users.
CONIKS [20, 26] has an identical requirement in order to sup-
port users who are not always online. A naive way of support-
ing this is to maintain one authentication data-structure (or
aZKS) per server epoch. This is very space-consuming and
wasteful since there might be a significant overlap between
the aZKS of consecutive epochs. Motivated by this constraint,
we develop a Persistent Patricia Trie (PPTr) data structure and
use it to build a space-efficient persistent aZKS (that can also
answer queries relative to older versions the aZKS efficiently).
CONIKS took the naive approach of building a new authenti-
cation data-structure at every epoch, which resulted in serious
scalability problem, as we uncovered in the experiments.
(2) Our PPTr construction extends history tree [23] and presents
a way of maintaining any temporal, append-only, authenti-
cated log of data. We believe PPTr will find applications in
several contexts, (e.g. tamper-evident logging, distributed iden-
tity providers, distributed certificate authorities) and may be
of independent interest.
(D) Privacy and Efficiency Improvements Compared to the prior
work, we significantly improve on the following parameters. For
experimental comparison, we implemented a prototype of our sys-
tem, SEEMless in Java and compared it with CONIKS, which is also
implemented in Java.
(1) Server storage: CONIKS [20, 26], uses a space-inefficient data-
structure in order to retain the history of all user key updates,
where the size of the data-structure is proportional to the
number of server epochs. In contrast, thanks to our Persistent
Patricia Trie construction, the size of our data-structure (aZKS)
is proportional to the total number of key updates in the system
as opposed to the number of epochs. The space overhead in
EthIKS [3] is even more since the data-structure at the server
is posted on the Ethereum blockchain, thereby replicating it at
each network node.
(2) Key Monitoring cost: The cost that a user has to pay to monitor
her key revision history at the server is an important metric
in a VKD system, especially because the users are often on a
weak device, like a mobile phone. We significantly improve on

the monitoring cost compared to [3, 20, 26]. CONIKS [20, 26]
required that each user queries the serverevery epoch to ensure
that her key was correct at that time; a user who was offline
for a period would have to perform all the checks for that time
on coming back online. EthIKS [3] lets a user audit only for
thelatest version of her key. In SEEMless, a user can monitor her
key revisions any time with cost that depends on the number
of times her key has been updated rather than the number of
epochs that have passed. For example, she can be offline for
several server epochs and can verify her entire key history by
downloading around 2MB data (even if she is updating her
key often) when she comes back online; in contrast, a CONIKS
user will need to download about 577MB.
(3) Frequency of server updates: In a VKD system, when a user
updates her key, the change is not reflected immediately; it is
reflected in the server’s commitment of the subsequent epoch.
Therefore, until the next epoch, either the server can continue
to respond with the stale user key, or the server can respond
with a key which is not consistent with the published com-
mitment and update it in the next epoch. CONIKS proposes
this latter approach; it is unclear how the user can verify that
this new key is in fact correct. In our solution, we propose
making the epochs short enough that we can take the first
approach without significantly affecting security or usability
of the system. Thanks to our space-efficient design, we can
afford to have short epochs. This makes SEEMless scale well
with frequent server updates, as opposed to CONIKS. For the
same update frequency and experimental setup, CONIKS can-
not handle more than 4.5M users, owing to the inefficiency of
their underlying data structure and hangs with more frequent
epochs whereas our system could handle10M users seamlessly.
In EthIKS, the frequency of server updates is at least as slow
as the block frequency of Ethereum.
(4) Privacy: SEEMless provides provably stronger privacy guaran-
tees as compared to [3, 20, 26]. In fact, we identify some sig-
nificant privacy leakage in [3, 20, 26] through which it might
be possible to trace the entire update history of a particular
user. This means once Alice queried for Bob’s key, she might
be able to completely trace when Bob’s key changed without
ever querying for his key again. Even if Bob has deleted Alice
from his contact list (and the server does not give out Alice’s
key to Bob after he has removed Alice from his contact list),
Alice will still be able to trace when Bob’s key changed just by
looking at the proof of her own key. We call thistracing attack
and explain its technical details in Appendix C.
(5) User cost: In our experiments, the cost of lookup query in
SEEMless is slightly more expensive than in CONIKS (at most
3×) due to our stronger privacy guarantees, but it is still about
10ms from request to complete verification, which is reason-
ably fast. In EthIKS each user lookup requires interaction with
the Ethereum blockchain, which which introduces significant
overhead compared to CONIKS and SEEMless.
(6) Auditors: We introduce the concept of auditors in a VKD —
potentially untrusted parties who verify that the server’s com-
mitments are well formed and updated in a valid way. This is
crucial to our more efficient key monitoring: essentially where
in CONIKS the users do a lot of redundant work to verify that
each server update is correct with respect to their keys, we only
need one honest party to check each server update. By design,
this verification is not privacy-sensitive in SEEMless, so we
can open this verification up to anyone, including privacy con-
cerned users or privacy advocacy groups. See Section 2.1 for
more discussion. In EthIKS the auditing is implicitly performed
by Etherum smart contracts adding a huge overhead.
Organization of the paper In Section 2, we define the primitive of
Verifiable Key Directories (VKD) along with the security properties.
In Section 3, we define append-only Zero Knowledge Sets (aZKS)
which is a building block for VKD construction. In Section 4, we
describe our SEEMless construction starting with an overview of
the same. In Section 5, we give concrete instantiations of aZKS. In
Section 6 we describe our space efficient Persistent Patricia Trie
construction. We present our prototype implementation and per-
formance results in Section 7. In Section 8 we discuss related work.
2 VERIFIABLE KEY DIRECTORY (VKD)
In this section, we will define the primitive of a Verifiable Key
Directory (VKD) and formalize its properties. The goal of a VKD is
to capture the functionality and security of a privacy-preserving
verifiable key directory system.
A VKD consists of three types of parties: an identity provider
or server, clients or users and external auditors. The server stores
a directory Dir with the names of the users (which we call labels)
and their corresponding public keys (the values corresponding to
the labels). For the ease of exposition, let Alice and Bob be two
users. VKD provides the following query interface to the users. 1)
Alice can add her (username, key), i.e., (label=username, val=key),
to Dir. 2) Alice can update her key and request that Dir be updated
with the new key value. 3) She can query the server periodically to
obtain history of her key updates over time (VKD.KeyHistory). 4)
Bob can also query for the key corresponding to username Alice
(VKD.Query) at the current time.
The functionality VKD.KeyHistory warrants further discussion
since this is not a functionality that one usually expects from a key
directory service. In a privacy-preserving verifiable key directory
service, intuitively, we expect the server to be able to prove to Bob
that he is seeing Alice’s latest key without leaking any additional
information about the directory. This is trivial to achieve if we
assume that Alice can always sign her new public key with her
old secret key. But this is a completely unreasonable assumption
from an average user who may lose her device or re-install the
software, thereby losing her previous secret key; the user will only
have access to her latest secret key which is stored on her latest
device. It is crucial to not assume that Alice or Bob can remember
any cryptographic secret. Under this constraint, we need Alice to
monitor her key sufficiently often to make sure her latest key is
in the server directory. Only then, we can talk about Bob getting
Alice’s latest key in a meaningful way. Alice could of course check
every epoch to make sure that her key is being correctly reported,
but this becomes costly, particularly when epochs are short. In-
stead, we allow Alice to query periodically and retrieve a list of all
the times her key has changed and the resulting values using the
VKD.KeyHistory interface.

The server applies updates from its users (of type 1 and 2 de-
scribed above) in batches, and publishes a commitment to the cur-
rent state of the database com and proof ΠUpd that a valid update
has been performed ( VKD.Publish) periodically. The server also
publishes a public datastructure which maintains information about
all the commitments so far. The auditors in the system keep check-
ing the published update proofs and the public datastructure in
order to ensure global consistency (VKD.Audit) of Dir.
The updates should be sufficiently frequent, so that the user
keys are not out-of-date for long. The exact interval between these
server updates, or epochs has to be chosen as a system parameter.
We use time and epoch interchangeably in our descriptions.
The server also produces proofs for VKD.Query and
VKD.KeyHistory. At a very high level, the users verify the
proofs (VKD.QueryVer, VKD.HistoryVer) to ensure that the server
is not returning an incorrect key corresponding to a username
or an inconsistent key history for the keys corresponding to a
username. VKD also requires the proofs to be privacy-preserving,
i.e., the proofs should not leak information about any other key
(that has not been queried) in Dir. The auditors are not trusted for
privacy and hence, the proofs that the server produces as part of
VKD.Publish need to be privacy-preserving as well.
Definition 1. A Verifiable Key Directory is com-
prised of the algorithms (VKD.Publish,VKD.Query,
VKD.QueryVer,VKD.KeyHistory,VKD.HistoryVer,VKD.Audit)
and all the algorithms have access to the system parameters. We
do not make the system parameters explicit. The algorithms are:
Periodic Publish:
▷(comt , ΠUpd
t , stt , Dirt)← VKD.Publish(Dirt−1, stt−1, St):
This algorithm takes the previous state of the server and the key
directory at previous epoch t− 1 and also a set St of elements to be
updated. Whenever a client submits a request to add a new label or
update an existing label from epochs t− 1 to t, the corresponding
(label, val) pair is added to St to be added in the VKD at epoch t.
The algorithm produces a commitment to the current state of the
directory comt and a proof of valid update ΠUpd all of which it
broadcasts at epoch t. It also outputs the updated directory Dirt
and an updated internal state stt . If this is the first epoch, i.e., no
previous epoch exists, then the server initializes an empty directory
and its internal state first, then updates them as described above.
Querying for a Label:
▷(val,π)← VKD.Query(stt , Dirt , label) : This algorithm takes the
current state of the server for epoch t, the directory Dirt at that
epoch and a query label label and returns the corresponding value
if it is present in the current directory,⊥ if it is not present, a proof
of membership or non-membership respectively.
▷ 1/0← VKD.QueryVer(com, label,(val,π)) :
This algorithm takes a commitment with respect to some epoch, a
label, value pair and verifies the above proof.
Checking Consistency of Key Updates:
▷({(vali , ti)}n
i=1, ΠVer)← VKD.KeyHistory(stt , Dirt , label): This
algorithm takes in the server state, the directory at current time
t and a label. It outputs {(vali , ti)}n
i=1 which are all the times at
which the value corresponding to label was updated so far, the
resulting val’s, along with a proof ΠVer.
▷ 1/0← VKD.HistoryVer(comt , label,{(vali , ti)}n
i=1, ΠVer): This al-
gorithm takes the commitment published by the server for the
current time t, a label, and{(vali , ti)}n
i=1, and verifies ΠVer.
Auditing the VKD:
▷ 1/0 ← VKD.Audit(t1, tn,{(comt , ΠUpd
t )}tn
t =t1): This algorithm
takes the epochs t1 and tn between which audit is being done,
the server’s published pub for all the epochs from times t1 to tn. It
outputs a boolean indicating whether the audit is successful.
Now we discuss the security properties we require from a VKD.
We give the informal descriptions here and defer the formal defini-
tions to Appendix B. The security properties are the following.
• Completeness: We want to say that if a VKD is set up properly
and if the server behaves honestly at all epochs, then all the fol-
lowing things should happen for any label updated at t1, . . . ,tn
with val1, . . . ,valn: 1) their history proof with{(vali , ti)}n
i=1 and
ΠVer should verify at tn 2) the query proof for the label at any
tj≤ t∗ < tj+1 should verify with respect to the value consistent
with the versions proof at tj which is valj and 3) the audit from
epochs t1 to tn should verify.
Note that for KeyHistory and HistoryVer, we consider epochs
t1, t2, . . . ,tn when the updates have happened for a label. These
will be epochs distributed in the range[t1, tn]. However for Audit,
we consider all possible pairwise epochs between t1 and tn. For ex-
ample, for t1 = 3 to tn = 10, there might be updates at 3, 5, 8, 10 but
for audit we need to consider all of the epochs 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.
• Soundness: VKD soundness guarantees that if Alice has ver-
ified the update history of her key till time tn and if for each
ti from the beginning of time till tn, there exists at least one
honest auditor whose audits have been successful then, when-
ever Bob queried before tn, he would have received Alice’s key
value that is consistent with the key value reported in Alice’s his-
tory query. Thus soundness is derived from all of VKD.Publish,
VKD.QueryVer, VKD.HistoryVer and VKD.Audit.
Note that the onus is on the user, Alice, to make sure that the server
is giving out the most recent and correct value for her key. Sound-
ness guarantees that under the circumstances described above, Bob
will always see a key consistent with what Alice has audited. But
Alice needs to verify that her key as reported in the history query
is consistent with the actual key that she chose.
• Privacy: The privacy guarantee of a VKD is that the outputs of
Query, HistoryVer or Audit should not reveal anything beyond the
answer and a well defined leakage function on the directory’s state.
So, the proofs for each of these queries should be simulatable given
the output of the leakage function and the response.
2.1 Model Assumptions
Here we discuss the assumptions we have in our VKD model and
discuss why we think these are justified.
What we assume from users. Our goal is to make VKDs usable
by average users who cannot be assumed to remember or correctly
store long term cryptographic secrets. We do assume that the user’s
device can store a secret (the user’s current key), although that
device might be lost/re-imaged, etc in which case the secret would
be lost. We assume that the user has some way of authenticating
to the service provider (this could be through a second factor text

message, or a phone call to answer security questions, etc); this is
already a requirement in existing end-to-end encryption systems
or other messaging services so we are not increasing the attack
surface. We also assume that the server enforces some kind of access
control on the public key directory, for example only responding to
Bob’s query for Alice’s key if he is on her contact list. Finally, we
assume that the user can recognize the approximate times when she
updated her key (enough to be able to identify if extra updates have
been included in the list). To help with this we could also have the
server store a note from the user about each update, e.g. “bought
new iphone” or “re-installed app". VKDs could of course support
options for power users to makeKeyHistory queries whenever they
want, to explicitly compare public keys with their friends (as in
WhatsApp), or to sign their key updates.
Assumptions on system. We do assume that Alice, Bob, and the
server have clocks that are approximately in sync. We also assume
some way of ensuring that all parties have consistent views of the
current root commitment or at least that they periodically com-
pare these values to make sure that their views have not forked.
A simple way of doing this would be for the server to publish the
head periodically to a blockchain (as in Catena [26]), but we could
also implement it with a gossip protocol as in CONIKS [20]. If we
implement this by having the server post the commitment on the
blockchain, then this means we assume the client software periodi-
cally interact with the blockchain. (Because of the hash chain, even
if clients do not check the root on the blockchain every epoch, if
two different client’s views of the root diverge, they will eventually
detect that when they do contact the blockchain.) Similarly, our
epoch length need not be limited by the blockchain block time – it
is enough if the server periodically posts the current commitment
on the blockchain; a misbehaving server will be caught as soon as
the next blockchain post happens. This vulnerability window is a
tunable parameter. The bandwidth requirements (for interacting
with the blockchain) of log auditors of the system and of thin clients
(e.g. cell phones) can be significantly reduced by using an efficiently-
verifiable blockchain witnessing service, like Catena [26].
Cost of auditors. In a VKD system, the audit functionality en-
sures that the server updates are consistent. The audit proofs are
not privacy sensitive, so we do not have to place any restrictions on
who can perform audits. Audit can be performed by many auditors
in parallel and it is sufficient to have at least one honest auditor
perform audits over each adjacent server epoch. This means, audi-
tor A could audit for server update between epoch t, t + 1, while a
different auditor B could audit between epocht +1, t +2. It is reason-
able to assume that some privacy conscious users of a VKD system
or privacy-advocacy groups or even altruistic nodes[7], would be
willing to periodically audit server updates. Furthermore, in the pro-
totype implementation of our VKD system, SEEMless, we observed
that the bandwidth cost for an audit to check server update between
two consecutive epochs is less than 5MB and takes less than 0.3s to
verify. For scale, 5MB is smaller than the size of an average image
taken from a 12MP smartphone camera. Hence, auditing a single
server update is not a significant burden. We discuss the details of
the audit experiments in Section 7.
User Experience. Having an end-user seamlessly interact with
the functionality of any VKD is crucial for successful deployment.
Designing a user interface that exposes the VKD functionality to
end users without drastically changing their experience of using
existing messaging software requires usability studies, which we
leave for future work. However, here we discuss a blueprint of what
we envision the user interface of a VKD system to be.
The high level goal is to have an end-user’s software run the
queries and verification the background in a timely manner and
alert an end-user only when some verification fails. When Alice first
registers for the service, the client software installed on her device
generates keys in the background, and makes a KeyHistory query
to the server to verify that this is the first key that was issued for her,
and a Query to verify that the key is stored correctly. This happens
in the background and is invisible to Alice unless verification of
one of these fails, in which case she will be alerted of possible
misbehavior. Similarly, when Alice requests Bob’s key, the client
software will run verification of the proof received from the server
in the background and will only notify Alice if the verification fails.
In addition to that, we want Alice’s client to check her key history
sufficiently often . This entails running KeyHistory query in the
background periodically and notifying Alice if it is not consistent
with the updates she has made.∗keyver must also be run when Alice
changes her device or reinstalls the client software (thereby forcing
a key update) in which cases the software would display to Alice a
list of the times when her key was updated.
Multiple devices. We have described the system as storing only a
single key per user, but in reality Alice might use her account on
multiple devices, and the system would be used to store a list of
public keys, one for each of her devices. Bob would then encrypt
under all of these keys, and the service would determine which to
deliver. This works without any modification of the VKD system.
The only change in user experience is that when Alice’s device runs
periodic updates, it might find updates made by other devices: the
times for these updates should be displayed to Alice for verification.
Distributing the service. We have described the service in terms
of a single server, but in practice, the “server” can be implemented
using a distributed network of servers, for reliability and redun-
dancy. Our model captures the server as a single logical entity, so it
can accommodate a distributed implementation fairly easily. Con-
structing proofs just requires reading the shared data structures for
previous time epochs, so that can easily be done by many processes
in parallel. Once all of the updates for a given epoch have been col-
lected, then the authentication data structure needs to be updated.
In our VKD system, SEEMless, this can also be parallelized fairly
easily because of the tree structure (details in Section 5). We can
support queries even during the data structure update by keeping a
snapshot of the last authentication data structure until the update
epoch completes. Once the epoch completes, the snapshot can be
discarded (so this does not blow up memory).
3 APPEND-ONLY ZERO KNOWLEDGE SET
(aZKS)
In this section we introduce a new primitive, Append-Only Zero
Knowledge Set (aZKS) which we will use to build SEEMless. Zero
Knowledge Set [5, 21] (ZKS) is a primitive that lets a (potentially
∗Determining how often the client software should run KeyHistory depends on
how quickly users want to detect misbehavior and requires user studies.

malicious) prover commit to a static collection of (label,value) pairs
(where the labels form a set) such that: 1) the commitment is suc-
cinct and does not leak any information about the committed col-
lection 2) the prover can prove statements about membership/non-
membership of labels (from the domain of the labels) in the commit-
ted collection with respect to the succinct commitment 3) the proofs
are efficient and do not leak any information about the rest of the
committed collection. Our primitive, Append-Only Zero Knowledge
Set (aZKS) generalizes the traditional zero-knowledge set primi-
tive by accounting for append-only updates and characterizing the
collection with a leakage function.
Here it is worth pointing out that the notion of soundness one
would expect from updates in a ZKS is not obvious. For example,
if the expectation is that updates leak absolutely no information
about the underlying sets or type of updates (inserts/deletes), then
there is no reasonable definition of soundness of updates: any set
the prover chooses will be the result of some valid set of updates.
In [19], Liskov did not define any soundness notion for updates.
In our context, we want to be able to define an append-only ZKS,
which makes the expectation of update soundness clear: it should
ensure for any label, its value never gets modified and in particular,
it never gets deleted.
Here we describe the primitive and informally define its security
properties. The formal security definition is in Appendix D.
Definition 2. Append-Only Zero Knowledge Set is com-
prised of the algorithms(ZKS.CommitDS, ZKS.Query, ZKS.Verify,
ZKS.UpdateDS, ZKS.VerifyUpd)† described as follows:
▷(com, stcom)← ZKS.CommitDS(1λ, D) : This algorithm takes
the security parameter and the datastore to commit to as input,
and produces a commitment to the data store and an internal state
to pass on to the Query algorithm. Datastore D will be a collection
of(label, val) pairs.
▷(π , val)← ZKS.Query(stcom, D, label) : This algorithm takes the
state output byZKS.CommitDS, the datastore and a query label and
returns its value (⊥ if not present) and a proof of (non-)membership.
▷ 1/0← ZKS.Verify(com, label, val,π) : This algorithm takes a (la-
bel, value) pair, its proof and a commitment by ZKS.CommitDS
and verifies the above proof.
▷(com′, st′com, D′,πS)← ZKS.UpdateDS(stcom, D, S): This algo-
rithm takes in the current server statestcom, the current state of the
datastore and a set S ={(label1, val1), . . . ,(labelk , valk)} of new
(label, value) pairs for update. It outputs an updated commitment to
the datastore, an updated internal state and an updated version of
the datastore and proofπS that the update has been done correctly.
▷ 0/1← ZKS.VerifyUpd(com, com′,πS) : This algorithm takes in
two commitments to the datastore before and after an update and
verifies the above proof.
We require the following security properties of anappend-only ZKS:
Soundness: For soundness we want to capture two things: First,
a malicious proverA∗ algorithm should not be able to produce
two verifying proofs for two different values for the same label
†The original ZKS definition also included a setup algorithm run by a trusted
party to generate public parameters used in all the algorithms. Our construction does
not need such a set up (we show security in the random oracle model), so we omit it
here.
with respect to a com. Second, since the aZKS is append-only, a
malicious server should be unable to modify an existing label.
Zero-Knowledge with Leakage: We generalize the definition
ZKS [5, 21] by introducing leakage functions in the classical defini-
tion. The goal of our privacy definition is to capture the following:
we want the query proofs and update proofs to leak no information
beyond the query answer (which is a val/⊥ in case of query and
a bit indicating validity of the update operation). But often, it is
reasonable to tolerate a small leakage to gain more efficiency. To
capture this sort of leakage formally, we parameterize our definition
with a leakage function. If the leakage function is set to null, then
our definition reduces to the classical ZKS definition.
Append-Only Strong Accumulator: Finally, we remark that the
primitive strong accumulator (SA) [4] can be extended to a new
primitive of append-only strong accumulator (aSA) trivially from the
definition of aZKS. An aSA is essentially aaZKS with completeness
and soundness and without the privacy requirement. In Section 5,
we will first construct an efficient aSA and then construct aZKS
using aSA in a blackbox way.
4 SEEMLESS CONSTRUCTION
In this section, we will describe SEEMless: our construction of VKD
from append-only zero-knowledge sets (aZKS). We first review the
construction for CONIKS, then give an informal overview of our
SEEMless construction and then describe the construction more
formally. In our construction, we will be using a hash chain. Hash
Chain is a classical authentication data structure that chains multi-
ple data elements by successively applying cryptographic hashes,
e.g. a hash chain that hashes elements a, b, c is H(c, H(b, H(a)).
4.1 An overview of the CONIKS construction
In a verifiable directory, as described in the introduction, every
epoch the server will publish a commitment to the current state
of the directory; this will allow the server to respond to username
queries with the corresponding public key and a proof that that is
correct according to the committed database. CONIKS is implicitly
based on the zero knowledge set we describe in Section 5, although
they do not explictly describe it as such and they do not use the
append-only property. Recall that a zero knowledge set, as described
in Section 5, allows the server to give a concise commitment to a
set of(label, val) pairs, and to give proofs for each query that reveal
nothing beyond the query, the response, and the number of pairs
in the directory. Each epoch the server will modify the zks with
any updates to correspond to the latest directory and publish the
resulting zks commitment; it will then respond to each Query with
a zks proof. The system should also ensure that if two users at some
point compare their root commitments and find that they match,
they will be assured that all previous responses were consistent. To
allow this, the server will actually publish the head of a hash chain
containing all of the zks commitments.
This construction has two issues. First, in terms of privacy, be-
cause of the way the the zks is modified, it reveals additional timing
information about when Alice’s key is updated, leading to the trac-
ing attack described in Appendix C. On the efficiency side, the issue
with this construction is that in order to audit her key history Alice

will have to obtain a zks proof for every epoch, even if she has only
made a few updates.
Key History The KeyHistory functionality is not provided in
CONIKS, as such. To ensure that the key served by a CONIKS
provider for her was always correct, a user alice would either
need to always remain online, verifying the responses to theQuery
requests for her key at each epoch, or, retroactively check them.
Auditing CONIKS has no explicit auditors. Each user is assumed
to verify the server’s update each epoch to ensure that each com-
mitment is correct w.r.t. her own key.
4.2 Intuition behind our SEEMless
construction
To explain the intuition behind our construction, we take the
CONIKS construction as a starting point. However, here we want
two additional properties. First, we want to allow a user to check
the history of when her key has been updated in time proportional
to the number of updates rather than the number of edits. That
means we need to do something more sophisticated than having
the user query her key in every epoch. The second is that we want
that all of the proofs leak as little information as possible about
users’ update patterns. We build up to our construction gradually.
(We will describe our construction generally in terms of(label, val)
pairs, but in our application label will be a username, and val will
be an associated public key.)
Attempt 1: To address the efficiency issue, we need to ensure user
can see changes to his key even if he doesn’t check the update
when they occur. For instance, suppose that in the above construc-
tion Alice performs a KeyHistory query by only verifying ZKS
proofs for the epochs in which she changed her key. An adver-
sarial server could change Alice’s key for a few epochs, and then
change it back to the correct value, and if Alice does not request
ZKS proofs for those epochs (because she doesn’t expect her key
to have changed during that time), she will never detect it. We
prevent this by using an append only ZKS as described in Section 5,
which guarantees that all changes will be retained. We use the
aZKS to store((label||version), val) pairs, and when Bob queries
he will get Alice’s latest version number and an aZKS proof for
this(label||version). Alice on KeyHistory query will get proofs for
the values associated with (label|| 1) . . .(label||n) where n is the
number of updates she’s made so far.
We note that this also addresses the privacy issue discussed
above. Instead of modifying the value for an existing label in the
ZKS we add a new label; from the privacy of the aZKS, the update
proof and commitment reveal nothing about which label was added.
The issue with this construction is that we have no way to ensure
that the server shows Bob the correct latest version. For example a
corrupt server could show Bob an out of date key. Or if Alice has
performed n updates, it could correctly show Alice the values for
label|| 1, . . . label||n, but then show Bob a much higher version.
Attempt 2: To prevent the server from showing Bob an out of date
key, we modify the construction so that at every epoch we store 2
aZKS, one aZKSall as described above, and a second one aZKSold
that stores all of the out of date versions. When Bob queries for
Alice’s key he will receive a proof for the current version with
respect to aZKSall as above, but he will now also recive a proof for
the previous version with respect toaZKSold. When Alice performs
a KeyHistory check, she now additionally checks that the checks
that at each update the previous version is added to aZKSold.
This does not prevent the server from showing Bob a version
where version is much higher than Alice’s real latest update. One
approach to prevent this would be to have the server provide a that
|version is not in the aZKSall for any higher version than Alice’s
current version. However, this potentially has a very high cost
for Alice, proportional to the total possible number of updates,
i.e. the number of epochs. Instead, we want to achieve the same
guarantee but reduce Alice’s work. To do this, we have the server
add a “marker” node, on every 2i th update Alice makes. When Bob
queries for Alice’s key, he will also check that the previous marker
node is in the aZKSall. When Alice performs a KeyHistory check,
she will also check that no higher marker nodes are included in the
aZKSall. Because we mark only the 2i th updates, this cost is now
only logarithmic in the number of epochs.
Final construction The previous attempt captures the core of our
construction. The one additional aspect is that the append only
ZKS requires that someone verify the update proofs to ensure that
each update is indeed only adding values to the set. We could have
the users all perform this check, but that would again require them
to do work linear in the number of epochs. Instead, we observe
that the privacy guarantees of the aZKS mean that anyone can
be given access to these proofs, so we can open verification up to
anyone willing to perform this task; we call these parties auditors.
See Section 2.1 for more discussion.
4.3 SEEMless construction:
In the construction we assume that the server’s identity and public
key is known to each user and auditor and all the messages from the
server are signed under the server’s key, so that the server cannot
be impersonated.
Along with the steps of our construction, we will provide a
running example for expositional clarity.
Consider a VKD with2 chat client users, in which the labels
are usernames and the values are the corresponding public
keys. Suppose at some point in time between server epochs
t− 1 and t, alice requested registration with her first ever
public key PKa,1 and an existing user bob requested to update
his public key for the 2nd time to PKb,3. These values will
reflect in the VKD at epoch t. Previously, bob registered his
first key PKbob, 1 at server epoch 10 and updated it to PKbob, 2
at server epoch 100.
▷ VKD.Publish(Dirt−1, stt−1, St) : At every epoch, the server gets
a set St of (label, value) pairs that have to be added to the VKD.
The server first checks if the label already exists for some version
α− 1, else sets α = 1. It adds a new entry (label| α, val) to the
“all” aZKS and also adds(label| α− 1,) to the “old” aZKS ifα >
1. If the new version α = 2i for some i, then the server adds a
marker entry(label| mark| i,“marker”) to the “all” aZKS. The
server computes commitments to both the aZKS, and adds them
to the hash chain to obtain a new head comt . It also produces

aZKSall, t−1 aZKSold, t−1
(bob|1, PKb, 1)
(bob|2, PKb, 2)
(bob|mark|0, . . . )
(bob|mark|1, . . . )
(bob|1, null)
Entries at epoch t− 1 (before optimization in Remark 3)
aZKSall, t aZKSold, t
(bob|1, PKb, 1)
(bob|2, PKb, 2)
(bob|3, PKb, 3)
(alice|1, PKa, 1)
(bob|mark|0,. . . )
(bob|mark|1,. . . )
(alice|mark|0, . . . )
(bob|1, null)
(bob|2, null)
Entries at epoch t (before optimization in Remark 3)
Table 1: An example with two users, with views of data struc-
tures at epochs t− 1 and t.
a proof ΠUpd consisting of the previous and new pair of aZKS
commitments comall,t−1, comall,t and comold,t−1, comold,t and the
corresponding aZKS update proofs.
Remark 1. Note that the directory of (username, public-key) pairs is
never published. The published commitments are privacy-preserving.
▷ VKD.Query(stt , Dirt , label) : When a client Bob queries for Al-
ice’s label, he should get the val corresponding to the latest version
α for Alice’s label and a proof of correctness. Bob gets three proofs
in total: First is the membership proof of(label|α, val) in the “all”
aZKS. Second is the membership proof of the most recent marker
entry(label|mark|a) forα≥ 2a. And third is non membership
proof of label| α in the “old” aZKS. Proof 2 ensures that Bob is
not getting a value higher than Alice’s current version and proof 3
ensures that Bob is not getting an old version for Alice’s label.
In our example, if alice requested to see bob’s public
key at epoch t, alice would receive proofs for bob|3 ∈
aZKSall,t with value PKb,3 and bob|mark|1∈ aZKSall,t and
lastly, bob|3 < aZKSold,t . Additionally, alice will receive
comall,t , comold,t , comt−1.
▷ VKD.QueryVer(comt , label, valt ,πt ,α) : The client checks each
membership or non-membership proof, and the hash chain. Also
check that versionα as part of proof is less than current epoch t.
▷ VKD.KeyHistory(stt , Dirt , label): The server first retrieves all
the update epochs t1, . . . ,tα for label versions 1, . . . ,α from T ,
the corresponding comall,t1−1, comall,t1 , . . . ,comall,tα−1, comall,tα
and comold,t1 , . . . ,comold,tα and the hashes necessary to ver-
ify the hash chain: H(comall,0, comold,0), . . . , H(comall,t , comold,t).
For versions i = 1 to n, the server retrieves the vali for ti and ver-
sion i of label from Dirti . Let 2a≤α < 2a+1 for some a whereα tis
the current version of the label. The server generates the following
proofs (together called as Π):
(1) Correctness of comti and comti−1: For each i, output comti
comti−1. Also output the values necessary to verify the hash
chain: H(comall,0, comold,0), . . . , H(comall,t , comold,t).
(2) Correct version i is set at epoch ti : For each i: Membership
proof for(label| i) with valuevali in the “all”aZKS with respect
to comti .
(3) Server couldn’t have shown version i− 1 at or after ti :
For each i: Membership proof in “old” aZKS with respect to
comti for(label| i− 1).
(4) Server couldn’t have shown version i before epoch ti : For
each i: Non membership proof for(label| i) in “all” aZKS with
respect to comti−1
(5) Server can’t show any version from α + 1 to 2a+1 at
epoch t or any earlier epoch: Non membership proofs in
the “all” aZKS with respect to comt for(label| i + 1),(label| i +
2), . . . ,(label| 2a+1− 1).
(6) Server can’t show any version higher than 2a+1 at epoch
t or any earlier epoch: Non membership proofs in “all”aZKS
with respect to comt for marker nodes(label| mark| a + 1) up
to(label| mark| log t).
▷ VKD.HistoryVer(comt , label,{(vali , ti)}n
i=1, ΠVer): Verify each
of the above proofs.
In our example, if bob queried for his key history at epoch t,
he would check the following,
(1) com10, com9, com100, com99, comt and comt−1 and
the hashes necessary to verify the the hashchain
H(comall,0, comold,0), . . . , H(comall,t , comold,t).
(2) bob|1 exists and has valuePKb,1 in aZKSall,10, bob|2 exists
and has value PKb,2 in aZKSall,100 and bob|3 exists and
has value PKb,3 in aZKSall,t .
(3) bob|1∈ aZKSold,100 and bob|2∈ aZKSold,t .
(4) bob|1 < aZKSall,9, bob|2 < aZKSall,99 and bob|3 <
aZKSall,t−1.
(5) Since bob’s version is 3 < 22 = 4, nothing to check here.
(6) bob|mark|2 . . . , bob|mark| log t < aZKSall,t
Remark 2. The client software runs VKD.HistoryVer to monitor the
history of the user keys. This software either downloads the entire
proof from the server each epoch it runs VKD.HistoryVer (when the
software is re-installed or the user installs it on a new device) or caches
parts of the proof from the first run of VKD.HistoryVer to use in the
subsequent verifications. We experimentally evaluate the performance
for VKD.HistoryVer with and without caching in Section 7.
▷ VKD.Audit(t1, tn,{(comt , ΠUpd
t )}tn
t =t1): Auditors will audit the
commitments and proofs to make sure that no entries ever get
deleted in either aZKS. They do so by verifying the update proofs
ΠUpd output by the server. They also check that at each epoch
both aZKS commitments are added to the hash chain. Note that,
while the Audit interface gives a monolithic audit algorithm, our
audit is just checking the updates between each adjacent pair of
aZKS commitments, so it can be performed by many auditors in
parallel. For security, it is sufficient to have at least one honest
auditor perform audits over each adjacent pair.
Remark 3. In our implementation, the marker entry doubles up
as the normal key entry for that version, where the version number is
log(k), k being the count of number of updates for a specific user. We
use a special symbol mark for the marker entries. For example, the
3rd key for bob will be saved as bob|3 and the 1st key for alice will
be saved as alice|mark|0, (since 20 = 1), hence only two new entries
are made for any user update request.
Remark 4. We describe our construction with a hash chain to
for simplicity of exposition. However, we note that this could instead
be replaced with a Merkle tree (we describe this data structure in

Section 5) built over the list of all commitments to date. This would
result in slightly higher update and audit costs (adding a new entry
to the end of this list would require up to a logarithmic number of
hashes), but would significantly reduce the cost of history queries
(from linear in the number of epochs to logarithmic). We discuss this
in Section 7 (Update, Gethistory and Audit experiments).
4.4 Privacy of SEEMless
We prove in Appendix B that the following leakage for SEEMless:
PublishPublishPublish: For each label that was updated, if this is the first update
since the adversary queried for it viaQuery then add it to setQQuery,
and if it was previously queried to KeyHistory then add it to set
QKeyHistory. The leakage from this query is the number of new
registrations and of key updates in the latest epoch, and the sets
QQuery, QKeyHistory.
QueryQueryQuery: The leakage from this query is the version number of the
queried key and the epoch at which it was last updated.
KeyHistoryKeyHistoryKeyHistory: There is no additional leakage from this query.
Interpreting this leakage: A party who only acts as an auditor learns
only the numbers of keys added and keys updated each epoch. If
that party additionally acts as a user (Alice) performingKeyHistory
queries, the combined leakage may reveal when her keys are up-
dated (even if she does not perform more KeyHistory queries), but
that is expected to be something Alice knows since she is the one
requesting the updates. If Alice additionally queries for Bob’s key,
the leakage reveals the version number of Bob’s current key and
the epoch when it was last updated, and may reveal when that key
is no longer valid (because Bob performed an update), but will not
reveal anything about subsequent or previous updates.
Remark 5. Note that, while the functionality inherently allows
Bob to learn Alice’s entire update history if he queries for her key
every epoch, we assume as discussed in Section 2.1 that the server
limits who is allowed to query for Alice’s key to e.g. her contacts. Our
goal here then is to guarantee that Bob cannot learn about Alice’s
update history without performing these queries.
5 aZKS INSTANTIATIONS
In this section we will give a concrete instantiation for the aZKS
used for SEEMless. We refer the reader to Appendix A for definitions
of the standard cryptographic primitives used in the construction
of the aZKS.
5.1 Append-Only Strong Accumulator (aSA)
Construction
Here, we give a construction of an append-only strong accumulator
over a data collection of (label,value) pairs. The high level idea is
to build a Patricia Trie (PTr) [17] over the labels. PTr is a succinct
representation of the labels such that each child has a unique suffix
string associated with it and the leaf nodes constitute the actual label
values. See Fig 1 for an illustrative example. Our aSA construction
is built on a PTr. We use a collision-resistant hash function H :
{0, 1}∗7→{ 0, 1}m in our construction.
▷ SA.CommitDS(1λ, D) : Datastore D ={(l1,v1), . . . ,(ln,vn)}, a
collection of label-value pairs. Choose a constant kD
$
←{ 0, 1}λ.
Let{y1, . . . ,yn} be a lexicographic ordering corresponding to
{l1, . . . ,ln}. Build a Patricia trie on {yi} and output com =
(hroot, kD). For the nodes in the tree, hashes are computed as fol-
lows.
Leaf nodes: For a nodeyi , compute: hyi = H(kD|yi|vi). For exam-
ple, in the tree in Figure 1, h2 = H(kD|0100|v2).
Interior nodes: For an interior node x, let x .s0 and x .s1 be the
labels of its children. Compute:hx = H(kD|x|hx .s0|hx .s1|s0|s1). For
example in Figure 1, h6 = H(kD|0|h1|h7|010|1)
▷ SA.Query(D, l) : If l ∈ D, output value v associated to it.
Let hl be the hash value of the node. Give the sibling path
for hl in the Patricia trie along with the common prefix x at
each sibling node and the suffixes s0, s1 which form the nodes
x .s0 and x .s1. For example, proof for 0100 will be its value and
[h2,(h3, 01, 00, 11),(h1, 0, 010, 1),(h8,ϵ, 0, 1)]
If l < D, let z be the longest prefix ofl such that z is a node in the Pa-
tricia tree. Letzu0, zu1 be its children. Outputz, hz , u0, u1, hzu0 , hzu1
along with sibling path of z. For example, proof for 1010 will be⊥
and[1, 1000, 1100, h8, h4, h5,(h6,ϵ, 0, 1)].
▷ SA.Verify(com, l,v,π) : Parseπ as the hash values and the aux-
iliary prefix information at each node. Compute hl according to
leaf node calculation and verify the given value. Compute the hash
values upto the root with help of the proof Let this hash value be h.
Verify thath = hroot. In case of a non-membership proof, additional
verification is required. Let zl and zr be the labels of the left and
right child (respectively) of the returned node z. Verify that 1) z is
the longest common prefix of zl and zr 2) zl and zr are distinct.
▷ SA.UpdateDS(D, S): First we check thatS is a valid set of updates
which means that for all(labeli , vali)∈ S, labeli < D. Initialize sets
Znew, Zold, Zconst to empty. For all labelj ∈ S, compute: hlabelj =
H(kD|lj|valj) and add hlabelj to the appropriate position in the trie
and change the appropriate hash values. Add the old hash values
to Zold and the updated to Znew and those that remain unchanged
after all updates to Zconst. Output the final updated root hash h′
root
as com′, output the finalst′ and D′ = D∪{(labelj , valj)} and output
πS =(Zold, Znew, Zconst) and set S.
▷ SA.VerifyUpd(com, com′, S,πS): ParseπS =(Zold, Znew, Zconst).
Compute the root hash from all the values in Zold and Zconst and
check that it equals com. Similarly, compute the root hash from all
the values in Znew and Zconst and check that it equals com′. Let ZS
be the set of roots of the subtrees formed by labels in S. Check that
Zold, Znew are exactly the hash values of all nodes in ZS . Output 1
if all checks go through.
Security This aSA construction is secure if H is a collision-resistant
hash function. The security of this primitive is proven in [23].
ϵ
0
0010
 01
0100
 0111
1
1000
 1100
hε
h6 h8
h7h1
h2 h3
h4 h5
Figure 1: For the universe of be all 4 bit binary strings, a Pa-
tricia trie built on subset P ={0010, 0100, 0111, 1000, 1100}

Merke Hash Tree We use the Merkle Hash Tree variant used in
Certificate Transparency [18]. This is essentially the append-only
strong accumulator construction we described, where, the labels
start from 0 and gets appended incrementally, i.e., the first label
that gets added is 0, next one is 1 and so on.
5.2 aZKS Instantiations
Our construction builds upon append-only strong accumulators
which directly give us completeness and soundness. To get zero-
knowledge we will use a simulatable Verifiable Random Function
(hitherto denoted as an sVRF) and a simulatable Commitment
Scheme (hitherto denoted as an sCS). For definitions of these prim-
itives, see Appendix A. At a high level, the sVRF helps map an
element in the datastructure to a random position and the commit-
ment helps in hiding the exact value that is being accumulated.
Let(sVRF.KeyGen, sVRF.Eval, sVRF.Prove, sVRF.Verify) be a
simulatable VRF and let (CS.Commit, CS.Open, CS.VerifyOpen)
be a simulatable commitment scheme as described before. Given
D ={(label1, val1), . . . ,(labeln, valn)}, ZKS.Commit will first gen-
erate an sVRF key pair SK, PK← sVRF.KeyGen(1λ), build a new
D′ = {(l1,v1), . . . ,(ln,vn)} where li = sVRF.Eval(SK, labeli),
vi = CS.Commit((labeli , vali) ; ri) for random ri . It will then
build an append-only SA on D′ and output that together with
PK. ZKS.Query will return the appropriate li along with the sVRF
proof, the opening to the commitment, and the strong accumula-
tor membership/non-membership proof for(li ,vi). ZKS.UpdateDS
will compute the li ,vi pairs for the new datastore entries and then
run SA.UpdateDS. The formal proof of security is in Appendix D.
Leakage In our aZKS construction, ZKS.Query leaks the size of the
datastore, and when the queried element was added (assuming it
is a member). ZKS.UpdateDS leaks the size of the datastore before
and after an update. For each element that was added, it also leaks
whether and when the adversary previously queried for it.
6 PERSISTENT PATRICIA TRIE
In our construction, SEEMless, the server maintains two aZKS at
every epoch. In Section 4, we described how to construct a aZKS
using a aSA, which in turn, we implemented using Patricia Trie.
Recall that, in SEEMless, the server needs to store the entire his-
tory of the key directory and the two corresponding aSA (used in
the aZKS construction) to be able to answer key history queries.
Naively, the server can maintain all the aSA from the beginning of
time, but this will blow up the server’s storage significantly and
hinder scalability of the system. This is particularly wasteful, when
in fact, there might be a significant overlap between the aSA of
consecutive epochs. To address this problem, we build a persistent
data structure that retains information about every epoch, while
being space efficient. We call this persistent data structurePersistent
Patricia Trie (PPTr). We believe that PPTrs will find a wide number
of applications (such as the tamper-evident logging in [23]).
Challenges: The idea is similar to that of history tree (HT) [ 23],
built on Sparse Merkle Tree. However, we can not naively use the
same technique to build a Persistent Patricia Trie (PPTr). Recall that
Patricia Trie (PTr) is compressed for efficiency — there is no empty
node in the tree. Compression introduces several subtle challenges
in building its persistent version, i.e., PPTr. For example, unlike
in HT [23], nodes in a Patricia Trie do not have a fixed position.
A node with a certain label may be at lower depth at an earlier
epoch (root being at depth 0) and fall to a higher depth at a later
epoch. A node with a given label may change depth several times
from its birth epoch until the latest epoch. Please see Fig 2 for an
illustrative example. Therefore, a parent to child pointer does not
remain fixed throughout the life time of a PTr. In the example, the
node 00 pointed to 0000 as its left child at time t2, and to node 000
at time t4. The HT construction in [23] crucially relies on parent
to children pointers being fixed throughout the lifetime of the tree.
We will build our final construction of PPTr gradually.
Attempt 1: First, let us observe some invariants in an append-only
PTr (aPTr): (1) The depth of a PTr is defined with respect to the
root node of the tree, therefore the root node is always at depth 0
(2) Any node in a append-only PTr can only fall to higher depths
over epochs, it never goes to lower depths. (3) Any node with k bit
label can be at depth at most k in a PTr.
Now let us attempt to build a PPTr. Every node in a PTr is
identified by its label with a binary string. For every node u, we
store some information corresponding to every epoch when the
hash value at node u changed. Let us denote this information as
nodestate. These epochs and the corresponding nodestates are
stored in a hashtable. Corresponding to every epoch t when the
hash value at node u changed, nodestatet stores the following.
(1) ht : hash value of node u at epoch t
(2) leftskip: a binary string indicating how many levels have to be
skipped to get the left child of u at epoch t. Let the left child
label at epoch t is l
(3) leftepoch: the key to lookup l’s hashtable and get the corre-
sponding nodestate
(4) rightskip: a binary string indicating how many levels have to
be skipped to get the left child of u at epoch t. Let the right
child label at epoch t is r
(5) rightepoch: the key to lookup r’s hashtable and get the corre-
sponding nodestate
Since we are constructing a aPTr, we need to support only two
operations efficiently on the data structure:
Generate proof for a historical query: Recall (non-) member-
ship proof for certain nodeu at epoch t consists of the siblings of the
nodes on the path from the leaf (or an internal node with both chil-
dren’s labels non-prefixes of label u) to the root. For any previous
epoch t, this information can be easily extracted traversing the tree
from the root and following at each node u the (leftskip, leftepoch)
and (rightskip, rightepoch) pointers from hashtable entry of epoch
t. Thus, the cost of generating membership and non-membership
proofs for any epoch in the past is proportional to the tree height,
and is independent of the number of epochs.
Insert new node in aPTr: When a new node gets inserted to a
aPT, all nodes on its path from the root gets updated. But note
that, each node on this path has a hash table (of(epoch, nodestate))
associated with it. For each of these entries, the skip entries might
need to get updated while updating the path. Hence, the cost of
updating each node on the path is not constant, it is proportional
to the size of the hashtable at that node. Consequently, the cost of
inserting a new node is not proportional to the tree height.
Attempt 2: Our next attempt is to retain the cost for generating
historical proofs while bringing down the cost of insertion. Notice

ϵ
0
00
 0100
000
0000
 0001
001
0010
 0011
{t1 : left=t1, right=null}
{t2 : left=t2, right=null}
{t3 : left=t3, right=null}
{t4 : left=t4, right=null}
{t3 :left=t2, right=t3}
{t4 :left=t4, right=t3}
dir = left
{t2 :left=t1, right=t2}
{t4 :left=t4, right=t2}
dir = left
{t3 : f(PK 0100)}
{t4 :left=t1, right=t4}
dir = left
{t1 : f(PK 0000)} {t4 : f(PK 0001)}
{t2 :left=t2, right=t2}
dir=null
{t2 : f(PK 0010)} {t2 : f(PK 0011)}
Figure 2: Append only Patricia Trie: final view at epoch t4
that the skip entry at the parent of node u gets updated if and only
if a new node with labelv is inserted to the tree wherev is a proper
prefix of u.v becomes the new parent of u. We keep a direction
flag with every nodev that indicates whether u became the left or
right child of the newly inserted nodev. Let us denote this flag as
dir. Along with this, at every node we store birthepoch: the epoch
at which the label u was inserted.
Now we do not need to keep the skip fields any more, because
dir will help us get to the correct node. More specifically, for a
historical query(u, t), we will go down from the root following
as long as birthepoch≥ t guided by the dir bit. For example, in
Figure 2, at t1, 0000 was the leftchild of the root but at time t2 00
replaced 0000 and 0000 became the left child of 00. So thedir flag at
t2 is set to left. The birthepoch of 00 is t2 which equals the queried
epoch t2. Now, if we query (0000, t2), we will get to node 00 whose
node state entry t2 will have leftepoch = t1 and dir is set to Left. So
we go down the leftchild of 00 and find the entry 0000 at epoch t2.
Here insertion cost is proportional to the height of the tree since
cost of insertion on every node on the path is constant. But we have
introduced yet another problem in the historical query. The proof
needs the sibling path and we may need to traverse several levels
from a parent (following dir) to get the correct sibling.
Final construction: To overcome this problem, we keep at the
nodestate of every node, the label and the hashes of its current
children. This way, we get the required sibling directly from the
parent node. Nodestate now contains the following.
(1) ht : hash value of node u at epoch t
(2) leftlabel: the label l of the left child of node u at time t.
(3) lefthash: the hash value of node l at epoch t
(4) leftepoch: the key to lookup l’s hashtable and get the corre-
sponding nodestate
(5) rightlabel: the label of the right child of node u at time t. Let r
denote the label
(6) righthash: the hash value of node r at epoch t
(7) rightepoch: the key to lookup r’s hashtable and get the corre-
sponding nodestate
With this new nodestate, combined with the additional infor-
mation of dir, birthepoch, we have a persistent Patricia Trie data
structure where both historical query and insertion works in time
proportional to the height of the Trie.
7 EXPERIMENTS
In this section, we provide an experimental evaluation of SEEMless
implemented in Java. As discussed in Section 8, EthIKS [ 3] and
Catena [26] are essentially wrappers for CONIKS. So, we only pro-
vide explicit comparison with the Java implementation of CONIKS.
7.1 Experimental Setup
Our experiments were conducted on a Linux VM running on a
2.30GHz Intel Xeon E5-2673 CPU with 125GB of memory and a
64GB heap allocated to the JVM for the server-side experiments for
both SEEMless and CONIKS. All client experiments are done on a
2.8 GHz Intel Core i7 laptop. We used Google’s protocol buffers [27]
to implement communication between the client and the server, due
to their efficiency and compression. All sizes below are computed
using the getSerializedSize( ) API call for protocol buffer mes-
sages, which returns the number of bytes used to encode a message.
We implemented the VRF using the Secp384r1 curve using the
Bouncy Castle library, Icart’s function [12] for hashing to the curve
and SHA384. We use the technique of [11] of hashing the input twice
(using SHA384(0||input) and SHA384(1||input)) and applying Icart
on both these hashes, since applying Icart once does not provide a
distribution indistinguishable from random.
7.2 Performance Evaluation
Server updates: The graph in Fig. 5 shows the time taken for
server update in the following experiment: we increased the total
users by 100k at each epoch and then took measurements for 1k
new user registrations and 1k key updates by existing users. For a
server with 10M registered users, it takes0.28s on average to update
the authentication structure (the two PPTrs) and its directory. As
expected, the update time is proportional to the log of total number
of registrations and updates in the system. The server adds the
aZKS commitments in a Merkle Tree (instead of a hashchain) as
discussed in Section 4. We estimate this cost using the Patricia
trie used in CONIKS (an over-estimate). The time to insert a aZKS
commitment in the Mekle Tree of aZKS commitments is 61µs after
10M server epochs have passed.
Both CONIKS and SEEMless compute the VRFs for updates and
registrations between epochs, when a client message arrives. The
online update phase only needs to update the authentication data
structure and does not incur the VRF cost. For SEEMless, registering
a new user requires a single VRF computation (for inserting into
the “all” aZKS) and an update requires 2 VRF computations – one
for the new key entering the “all” aZKS and the other for the old
key entering the “old”aZKS. Therefore the offline VRF computation
cost at the server (per request) is at least 1.3ms and at most 2.5ms,
which is relatively low computation between epochs. For CONIKS,
the cost is a single VRF computation (for registration, no VRF is
computed for update), hence the cost is at most 1.3ms.‡
Scalability comparison We tried to run the same update experiment
with CONIKS, on the same machine and saw that the heap filled up
by the time we had around 4.5M users. Hence, we decided to run a
limited experiment with CONIKS which only measured the time
‡In the current implementation, CONIKS doesn’t cache the VRF, re-computing
it for every update and Query. Keeping a hash map for the VRFs would be a simple
optimization. Note that CONIKS did not implement the VRF for their evaluation.

Prove Query Verify Query
SEEMless 6.03 ms 10.51 ms
CONIKS 2.01 ms 3.47 ms
Table 2: Simulated times for proof generation at the server,
verification at the client in Query experiments at 10M users.
for 1k new users and 1k updates at selected epochs. This illustrates
the ability of SEEMless to scale in contrast to the limitation of a
CONIKS server to less frequent epochs. CONIKS performs even
worse (and hangs) with more frequent epochs. This issue is an
outcome of the repeated copying of the Patricia trie in CONIKS
and is language agnostic, since the RAM overflows with frequent
epochs. Even if older states were delegated to storage to prevent
overflowing the RAM, any KeyHistory requests in CONIKS would
require expensive accesses. The PPTr construction from Section 6
used in SEEMless helps achieve scalability by solving this problem
and allowing us to run our experiments only using RAM.
Query: To evaluate the cost ofQuery, we measure the computation
and verification times at the server and the client respectively, and
the proof-size. The number of users registered with the server vary
up to 10M. All costs are averaged over 100 users with 10 trials each.
Time The time spent in computing and verifying aQuery proof has
two components: the VRF proof and the authentication path in the
Patricia trie. Table 2 shows the time taken to compute and verify
Query proofs including the VRF cost, which is the most expensive
operation and dominates the Query cost. We computed the VRF
costs as follows. The compute, prove and verify functions for our
VRF implementation, take, on average, 1.3, 1.9 and 3.4 ms respec-
tively over 5k trials. Since the time for each of these computations
is independent of the input, we used them as constants to simulate
the VRF costs for the Query experiments (recall that each Query
response has 1 VRF proof in CONIKS and 3 in SEEMless).
In our experiments, we saw the cost of authentication path gener-
ation and verification is negligible compared to the VRF –0.2−0.3ms
for SEEMless and 0.05− 0.06ms for CONIKS§. Since SEEMless re-
quires 3 VRF proofs, its VRF cost is triple that of CONIKS. However,
performance of both systems remains comparable: on the order of
10 milliseconds, i.e. not a noticeable delay for a user. We can gain
further speedup by parallelizing the authentication paths and VRF
computations in SEEMless proof generation and verification.
Size of Proofs In our implementation, the proof contains the user-
name and public key (which are sent in addition to the proofs as
part of the Querys) along with a commitment to the public key,
its opening, the VRF proof and the authentication path in the Pa-
tricia trie. The average size of the proof is about 8600B when the
number of users is 10M. For scale, the length of a Twitter post is
famously 140 characters (1,120B)[8], so, the bandwidth consumed
by the proof is less that of reading 8 Twitter posts in plaintext.
The proof size is proportional to the logarithm of the total num-
ber of users registered, as expected (Fig 3). We also measure the
size of the CONIKS proofs. Since we have 3 authentication paths
per Query proof in our system, whereas CONIKS has one, the size
is at most 3× the proof of CONIKS, as expected.
KeyHistory: Here we measure the computation and verification
times of KeyHistory query and the size of the proofs. We note that
§Note that the CONIKS Java implementation stores public keys in plaintext and
not as commitments (a crucial privacy omission). This slightly reduces their cost.
Figure 3: Mean size of Query proofs for 100 nodes as the num-
ber of users in the VKD varies. The x-axis is logarithmic in
base 10 and each data point is the mean of 10 trials.
Figure 4: Mean bandwidth to verify the history proofs over
10 users (with caching) in S and 1M users in R and 200k
epochs as the number of key updates by users in S varies
and each user checks her key history after each update.
our implementation of KeyHistory functionality currently imple-
ments some redundant checks (for verification without caching)
which we optimized in the protocol description in Section 4.
The cost of KeyHistory is determined by 3 parameters: 1) the
number of server side epochs , 2) the latest key version or number
of key updates made by the user in question and 3) the total number
of updates on the server side (i.e. total number of entries in the
history trees). We have already seen how the Query proofs grow
with respect to parameter 3, instead, we measured how the first
two parameters affect the cost of the history proofs.
Both our experiments include a set S of 10 ‘special’ users, each
of whom not only register, but also update their keys as per the
experiments. The set of other users, let us call it the setR of ‘regular’
users, serves as a control: these users register and then update their
keys only once. In both experiments, we try to simulatespecial users
updating their keys at regular intervals. This means, if there are
200k epochs and the special users update their keys 10 times: they
register initially and then update every 20k epochs. As a control,
the users in R register at a fixed rate. For instance, if|R| = 1M, with
a total of 200k epochs, 5 users in R register and 5 update their keys
at every epoch. We first consider the experiments sans VRF. We
do not include the cost of verifying the aZKS commitments in the
Merkle Hash Tree (as described in Section 4) in these experiments.
We simulate the cost of the Merkle Tree by using the Patricia trie
of CONIKS (an over-estimate). The verification time for one leaf is
about 49µs even for 10M server epochs in this Patricia trie, which
would be close to running the server for several years with half

Figure 5: Mean times to update SEEMless and CONIKS for a
new epoch with 1k new users and 1k updates averaged over
10 trials. The x-axis is logarithmic in base 10.
minute epochs. Hence, if a user updated her key on 10 occasions,
she would have less than an additional 0.5ms of verification time.
Dependence on epochs To measure dependence of KeyHistory re-
sponse sizes and verification times on epochs, we fixed the size of
R at 1M, the number of updates by the users in S at 10 and varied
the number of epochs (adding an equal number of elements in R at
each epoch). Note that the number of minutes in a year is 525, 600,
so 1M is close to the number of epochs which would pass if the
length of 1 epoch were half a minute.
In our experiments, the average bandwidth consumed by a user
who updates 10 times and checks her history after every update,
with a server which has 1M epochs is≈ 1.09MB – not much more
than at 100k epochs which is≈ 1.03MB (Fig 6). The slight growth
in size is due to the increasing number of marker entries to be
checked as the number of epochs increases. The verification of the
history proofs took the client a total computation time of 0.02s for
1M epochs excluding the cost for the VRF. In contrast, CONIKS
requires a user to check her key at each epoch – the total cost of
monitoring her key grows rapidly (Fig 6). These experiments show
that SEEMless scales with short epochs as opposed to CONIKS.
Dependence on key updates The graph in Fig. 4 shows the total
bandwidth consumed by the proofs for various numbers of updates
by users (running verification with caching) in S, where the epochs
are fixed at 200k and|R| = 1M. In the case of our system, even a
user who updates her keys almost every week for about five months
(20 updates), has to download only an average of 2.01MB to verify
her entire key history and the downloaded proof can be verified in
an average of less than 0.05s excluding the V RF cost. This includes
sending the keys and usernames themselves (at least 1000 bytes
per key update), since the user may want to verify the used values.
If a user changes her key somewhat less frequently, say, every
two weeks, then she can monitor the entire history of her keys by
downloading about 1.05MB. This does not change significantly as
the number of epochs grows. On the other hand, a CONIKS user
would still need to download a proof every epoch to monitor her
key binding – amounting to almost 576.8MB over as many epochs.
Caching VRF labels at the client Each time a user runs KeyHistory,
she can cache the new VRFs returned from the server, amortizing
verification cost. Recall that, to verify a key version, i, such that
2a≤ i < 2a+1 for some non-negative integer a, a user:
• i− 1: needs to check for any version that the previous entry is
in the “old” aZKS. One additional version is moved to the “old”
aZKS for each new update.
Figure 6: Mean bandwidth for the history proofs over 10
users (with caching) in S with 10 updates each and 1M users
in R as the number of epochs varies. The growth for SEEM-
less bandwidth is slow: it is ≈ 1.03MB with 105 epochs and
≈ 1.09MB with 107 epochs.
• i + 1, ..., 2a+1− 1: will have the VRF values for versions in the
set i + 1, ..., 2a+1− 1 already verified and cached. So, they do not
need to be verified, just checked for equality, unless she updates
to a new version i such that i = 2k for some k∈ Z. If indeed
i = 2k for some k∈ Z, she will have to download the VRF values
i + 1, ..., 2k +1 (2k in number). This amortizes her cost to 1 VRF
verification per update.
• 2a+1, ..., 2⌊log t⌋: will need to verify an additionalV RF only when
verifying after some new 2k th epoch. For 10 updates at regular
intervals, once 1M epochs pass, she will have to verify a total of20
VRFs, getting an additional amortized cost of 2 VRF verifications,
per update.
Once verified, she can just save the 32B Patricia trie labels for the
“all” aZKS and the “old”aZKS which results in the following formula
client cache≈[ 2i + 2⌊log i⌋+1 + log t−(⌊ log i⌋ + 1)]× 32B
where i is the number of updates by the user and t is the number
of server epochs which have passed. In practice, this means that
even a user who has 20 updates over 1M epochs only needs to
cache≈2.8KB. Note that this is much smaller than even a low
resolution image taken on a flip phone. Figures 7 and 8 show the
total computation times for verifying the history proofs including
simulated costs for the VRF verifications with or without caching
as well as amortized costs. Compare the numbers in Fig. 7 with a
total of over 349s in CONIKS for a user needing to verifying her
key every epoch regardless of number of updates when she does
not save the VRF locally at just 100k epochs. Alternatively, if she
were to store the tree label corresponding to her name, it would
require constant monitoring and take a total of over 7s to ensure
the server never shows an incorrect key for her. The numbers for
CONIKS would increase significantly when the number of epochs
is higher to 3495s with 1M epochs, if she doesn’t save the VRF, and
71s when she does. In the experiment in Fig. 8, the epochs are fixed
at 200k, so even as the number of updates in CONIKS increases, its
computation time would remain fixed at over 699s to verify sans
caching and over 14s to verify with caching.
Caching VRF proofs at the server If the server were to cache the
VRF proofs for each of 10M users, each with 20 updates, it would
correspondingly have to store≈28GB of data. However, updates
and KeyHistorys are relatively infrequent, (such as when a user
reinstalls or updates her app), it is reasonable to assume that even
about a second of startup time for an app to verify key history is
not a barrier to usability. To respond to Query without the need

Figure 7: Mean time to verify SEEMless history proofs over
10 users in S and 1M users inR and 10 key updates as the num-
ber of epochs varies including the time VRF verifications. In
CONIKS, the total time for a non-caching user depends on
the number of epochs and is over 349s, even at 105 epochs.
Figure 8: Mean computation time to verify SEEMless history
proofs over 10 users in S and 1M users inR and 200k epochs as
the number of key updates by users in S varies including the
time for VRF verifications. In CONIKS, the time would only
depend on the number of epochs and equal over 699s for a
non-caching user and over 14s with caching at 200k epochs.
to compute a VRF will require caching the VRF value and proof
for the current key of each user. This amounts to 3× 48B (the VRF
value is 48B) for each registered user, which is 1.44GB over 10M
users. Further optimizations can be made, such as saving values for
inactive users to disk. We leave such optimizations as future work.
Auditing: Recall that the fresh and stale keys are stored in the
‘all’ and ‘old’ aZKS respectively. Commitments to the roots of these
aZKSs are stored in a Merkle tree. The auditors of SEEMless ver-
ify that (1) the commitments to the aZKSs are correctly added
to the Merkle Tree. Since they use the same data structure, the
cost for verifying entries in this tree is the same as verifying a
membership proof for a label in CONIKS: it takes about≈49µs and
about 3KB of bandwidth for a tree on 10M epochs (as already dis-
cussed in KeyHistory experiments). (2) the aZKS are growing in an
append-only manner. For (2), the auditors need to verify append-
only growth of the Patricia tries which instantiate the aZKS. To
monitor that the Patricia tries are growing in an append-only man-
ner, its auditors receive parts of the tree which are unchanged and
the changed leaves, from which they reconstruct the new version
of the tree. We simulate this cost by considering the number of new
hashes our aZKS trees have to perform, since our implementation
only computes the hashes that changed. For the “all” aZKS, less
than 47k new hashes had to be computed and this took 0.17s, and
the “old” aZKS computed less than 17k new hashes and it took
0.05s. So the total cost of hashing is 0.22s.
The auditors need to download the respective new leaves and
the nodes whose subtrees did not change. For downloading the new
leaves, the auditors need to download 1k leaves for the “old” aZKS,
2k leaves for the “all” aZKS, which are 2× 256 bits each (leaf label
and commitment), totaling 192KB for the two aZKS. To estimate
an upper-bound on the number of roots of the unchanged aZKS
subtrees, consider the following. Any node which is the root of an
unchanged subtree must have a sibling which has changed. If not,
then the node as well as its sibling are unchanged, the parent of
this node must be unchanged and thus, the parent or some other
ancestor must be the root of the unchanged subtree. Therefore,
contenders for roots of unchanged subtrees in an aZKS tree are
only siblings of nodes along the path from the root to new leaves.
Recall that the average depth of a node in a compressed Patricia
Trie is log n (we experimentally confirmed this) where n is the
total number of leaves. Hence, the number of unchanged roots of
unchanged subtrees is at most k× log n where k is the number
of new leaves. Corresponding to our experiment in Section 7, this
amounts to about1000 log 100k unchanged nodes for the “old"aZKS
and 2000 log 10.1M for the “all” aZKS, totaling an upper bound of
1.06MB+2.98MB= 4.04MB (including hash values and labels). Thus,
the total proof size that the auditors need to download is less than
4.24MB. Note that, sizes of the labels becomes smaller at each level,
but this estimate counts them all as 256 bits. This estimate also
double counts nodes at the intersection of paths to multiple new
leaves. So, in practice, this proof size will be much lower.
8 RELATED WORK
Our work broadly falls in the category of building provably secure
and efficient privacy-preserving key directory service, particularly
relevant in the context of end-to-end secure messaging services. In
the recent past, this problem has received significant attention in
both the academic community and industry [2, 3, 10, 13, 20, 22, 24,
26]. This line of work is related to transparency logs [ 9, 18], but
here we focus on the works that are most relevant to us.
The work closest to us in the literature is CONIKS [20], a direc-
tory service that lets users of an end-to-end encrypted communi-
cation system verify that their keys are being correctly reported
to all other users. We have already discussed this construction
in Section 4. EthIKS [3] implements CONIKS using the Ethereum
blockchain for storing the server’s authentication data-structures in
an Ethereum contract. Not only does this weaken the privacy guar-
antee of CONIKS, invoking the blockchain for every operation leads
to a significantly high overhead and makes this approach quickly
infeasible. Catena [26] provides a more general infrastructure for
managing application-specific logs of append only statements using
the OP_RETURN function of the Bitcoin blockchain and implements
CONIKS using Catena. Catena can be used for storing SEEMless
digests with the same overhead as for storing CONIKS digests. We
discuss how we can integrate SEEMless with Catena in Section 2.1.
Recently, Keybase has rolled out an auditable key directory ser-
vice [15, 16] but without any privacy; all the key changes by end-
users in Keybase are publicly available. Keybase also differs from
SEEMless, CONIKS and EthIKS in the user assumptions, they as-
sume that users have multiple trusted devices and access to long-
term cryptographic signature keys with which they sign all their
encryption key updates. For an end user, it is incredibly difficult to
manage keys, so we believe this assumption isn’t very realistic.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This material is based upon work supported by the National Science
Foundation under Grant No. CNS-1617676.
REFERENCES
[1] 2017. WhatsApp Security Vulnerability. https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/
2017/01/whatsapp_securi.html. (2017). Accessed: 2019-01-25.
[2] Muneeb Ali, Jude Nelson, Ryan Shea, and Michael J. Freedman. 2016. Block-
stack: A Global Naming and Storage System Secured by Blockchains. In 2016
USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC 16). USENIX Association, Den-
ver, CO, 181–194. https://www.usenix.org/conference/atc16/technical-sessions/
presentation/ali
[3] Joseph Bonneau. 2016. EthIKS: Using Ethereum to audit a CONIKS key trans-
parency log. In International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data
Security. Springer, 95–105.
[4] Philippe Camacho, Alejandro Hevia, Marcos Kiwi, and Roberto Opazo. 2008.
Strong accumulators from collision-resistant hashing. In International Conference
on Information Security. Springer, 471–486.
[5] Melissa Chase, Alexander Healy, Anna Lysyanskaya, Tal Malkin, and Leonid
Reyzin. 2005. Mercurial commitments with applications to zero-knowledge sets.
In Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic
Techniques. Springer, 422–439.
[6] Melissa Chase and Anna Lysyanskaya. 2007. Simulatable VRFs with applications
to multi-theorem NIZK. In Annual International Cryptology Conference. Springer,
303–322.
[7] Ruben Cuevas, Michal Kryczka, Angel Cuevas, Sebastian Kaune, Carmen Guer-
rero, and Reza Rejaie. 2010. Is content publishing in BitTorrent altruistic or
profit-driven?. In Proceedings of the 6th International COnference . ACM, 11.
[8] developer.twitter.com. 2010. Counting Characters. https://developer.twitter.com/
en/docs/basics/counting-characters.html. (2010). Accessed: 2018-12-25.
[9] Saba Eskandarian, Eran Messeri, Joe Bonneau, and Dan Boneh. 2017. Certificate
Transparency with Privacy. arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.02209 (2017).
[10] Mohammad Etemad and Alptekin Kupcu. 2015. Efficient Key Authentication
Service for Secure End-to-end Communications. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2015/833. (2015). https://eprint.iacr.org/2015/833.
[11] Reza R Farashahi, Pierre-Alain Fouque, Igor Shparlinski, Mehdi Tibouchi, and J
Voloch. 2013. Indifferentiable deterministic hashing to elliptic and hyperelliptic
curves. Math. Comp. 82, 281 (2013), 491–512.
[12] Thomas Icart. 2009. How to hash into elliptic curves. In Advances in Cryptology-
CRYPTO 2009. Springer, 303–316.
[13] Keybase.io. 2014. Keybase is now writing to the Bitcoin blockchain. https:
//keybase.io/docs/server_security/merkle_root_in_bitcoin_blockchain. (2014).
Accessed: 2018-10-05.
[14] Keybase.io. 2019. Keybase is not softer than TOFU. https://keybase.io/blog/
chat-apps-softer-than-tofu. (2019). Accessed: 2019-05-05.
[15] Keybase.io. 2019. Managing Teams and Keys with Keybase. https:
//keybase.io/docs-assets/blog/NCC_Group_Keybase_KB2018_Public_Report_
2019-02-27_v1.3.pdf. (2019). Accessed: 2019-05-05.
[16] Keybase.io. 2019. Protocol Security Review. https://rwc.iacr.org/2019/slides/
keybase-rwc2019.pdf. (2019). Accessed: 2019-05-05.
[17] Donald Ervin Knuth. 1998.The art of computer programming: sorting and searching.
Vol. 3. Pearson Education.
[18] Ben Laurie, Adam Langley, and Emilia Kasper. 2013. Certificate transparency.
Technical Report.
[19] Moses Liskov. 2005. Updatable zero-knowledge databases. In International Con-
ference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information Security .
Springer, 174–198.
[20] Marcela S Melara, Aaron Blankstein, Joseph Bonneau, Edward W Felten, and
Michael J Freedman. 2015. CONIKS: Bringing Key Transparency to End Users..
In Usenix Security. 383–398.
[21] Silvio Micali, Michael Rabin, and Joe Kilian. 2003. Zero-knowledge sets. In
Foundations of Computer Science, 2003. Proceedings. 44th Annual IEEE Symposium .
IEEE, 80–91.
[22] Namecoin. 2014. https://namecoin.org. (2014). Accessed: 2018-10-05.
[23] Alina Oprea and Kevin D Bowers. 2009. Authentic time-stamps for archival
storage. In European Symposium on Research in Computer Security . Springer,
136–151.
[24] LEAP Encryption Access Project. 2012. Nicknym. https://leap.se/en/docs/design/
nicknym. (2012). Accessed: 2018-10-05.
[25] signal.org. 2016. Identity binding. https://www.signal.org/docs/specifications/
x3dh. (2016). Accessed: 2019-05-05.
[26] Alin Tomescu and Srinivas Devadas. 2017. Catena: Efficient non-equivocation
via Bitcoin. In IEEE Symp. on Security and Privacy .
[27] Kenton Varda. 2008. Protocol buffers: Google’s data interchange format. Google
Open Source Blog, A vailable at least as early as Jul 72 (2008).
A CRYPTOGRAPHIC PRIMITIVES FOR aZKS
Collision Resistant Hash Function (CRHF): A hash function
H is collision resistant if it is hard to find two inputs that hash to
the same output; that is, two inputs x andy such that H(x) = H(y),
and x ,y. In some of our building blocks, we treat a hash function
as a random oracle.This roughly provides security against attackers
who use the hash function as a black box.
Instantiation. For our experiments we use SHA384 in our VRF
construction and SHA256 everywhere else.
Simulatable Commitment Scheme (sCS) : A sim-
ulatable commitment scheme consists of algorithms
(CS.Commit, CS.Open, CS.VerifyOpen): (1) comσ ←
CS.Commit(1λ, m; r): takes security parameter λ and pro-
duces commitment comσ to message m using randomness
r. (2) τ ← CS.Open(σ , m, r , comσ): outputs a decommitment
value corresponding to commitment comσ for message m and
randomness r. (3) 1/0← CS.VerifyOpen(σ , comσ , m,τ): accepts
or rejects the decommitment of comσ to message m in terms of
the decommitment valueτ .
An sCS satisfies the standard requirements of commitment schemes
with respect to hiding and binding: commitments hide the commit-
ted message, and it is hard to open a commitment to two different
messages. In addition, sCS requires that there exist a hypothetical
“simulator” with special powers (either a trapdoor or in our case
control of the random oracle) who could form commitments that
can later be opened to any value m. This then shows that the com-
mitment and opening give the adversary no additional information.
Instantiation. We can construct this commitment scheme from a
hash function which we model as a random oracle:Commit(σ , m; r)
samples random string r←{ 0, 1}λ and outputs H(m, r).
Simulatable Verifiable Random Function (sVRF) [6]: A Veri-
fiable Random Function (VRF) is similar to a pseudorandom func-
tion, with the additional property of verifiability: corresponding
to each secret key SK, there is a public key PK, such that, for any
y = VRF.Eval(SK, x), it is possible to verify that y is indeed the
value of the VRF seeded by SK evaluated on input x. A simulatable
VRF (sVRF) is a VRF for which this proof can be simulated, so a
hypothetical simulator with special powers (e.g. controlling the
random oracle) can fake a proof that the value ofVRF.Gen(SK, x) is
anyy. This guarantees that the proof does not compromise the pseu-
dorandomness of this or any other output. An sVRF is comprised of
the following algorithms: 1)(PK, SK)← sVRF.KeyGen(1λ): takes
security parameterλ and outputs the public key PK and secret key
SK. 2)y← sVRF.Eval(SK, x): takes the secret keySK and x and out-
puts the sVRF evaluation ofx asy 3)π← sVRF.Prove(SK, x): takes
the secret key SK and x and outputs a proof for the sVRF evaluation
of x 4) 1/0← sVRF.Verify(PK, x,y,π): verifies the proof.
Instantiation. We describe an efficient constructions of sVRFs
based on the DDH assumption as proposed in [ 20]. The proof
for pseudorandomness follows from DDH as observed in [ 20].
Let G be a DDH group of order q and let д be a generator. Let
H1 :{0, 1}∗7→ G and H2 :{0, 1}∗7→ Z∗q be two hash functions.
The sVRF construction is the following. (1) sVRF.KeyGen: Choose
k
$
← Z∗q and output SK = k and PK = дk (2) sVRF.Eval: Output
y =(H1(x))SK (4) sVRF.Prove: The proof is the Fiat-Shamir transfor-
mation of Schnorr protocol for proving common exponent; proving

that prover knows SK = k such that PK = дk andy = hk for
h = H1(x). Prover chooses r
$
← Z∗q and outputs proof asπ =(s, t)
for s = H2(x,дr , hr) and t = r−sk. (5) sVRF.Verify: Parseπ as(s, t).
Check that s = H2(x,дt(PK)s , htys) for h = H1(x)
B VERIFIABLE KEY DIRECTORY
Notation: A functionν : Z+7→ R+ is a negligible function if for
all c∈ Z+, there exists k0 such that for all k≥ k0,ν(k) < k−c .
An algorithmA is said to have oracle access to machineO ifA
can write an input forO on a special tape, and tell the oracle to
execute on that input and then write its output to the tape. We
denote this oracle access byAO. For the rest of the sections, we
will use(label, val) and (username,public key) interchangeably.
Security Properties: Here we give the formal definitions that we
informally described in Section 2. In the security definitions, t1
denotes the first server epoch at which the label in the definitions
gets registered for the first time with the directory Dir.
• Completeness: Let Dir0 ={}, st0 =⊥.
For all possible labels, for all tcurrent, n, for all sets{vali}n
i=1 for
all update sets S1, . . . ,Stcurrent such that(label, vali)∈{ Sti}n
i=1 is
the set of all occurrences of label in S1, . . . ,Stcurrent, and ∀t∗ <
tcurrent:
Pr[({((comt , ΠUpd
t ), stt , Dirt)← VKD.Publish(Dirt−1, stt−1, St)} tcurrent
t =1 ∧
({(val′
i, t′
i)} n′
i =1, ΠVer)← VKD.KeyHistory(sttcurrent, Dirtcurrent, label)∧
n = n′∧ ∀i∈[ 1, n](t′
i = ti∧ val′
i = vali)∧
VKD.HistoryVer(comtcurrent, label,{(vali, ti)} n
i =1, ΠVer)∧
VKD.Audit(t1, tcurrent,{comk, ΠUpd
k }tcurrent
k =t1
)∧
(π, val)← VKD.Query(stt∗, Dirt∗, label)∧
VKD.QueryVer(comt∗, label, val,π)∧
∃j∈[ 1, n]s .t .(tj≤ t∗ < tj+1∧( val = valj))] = 1
• Soundness: We want to capture that for any label label if ver-
sions proofs verifies with respect to{(vali , ti)}n
i=1 and if the audit
verifies from t1 to tn then at any time t∗ between an interval
[tj , tj+1] for some j∈[ n], a malicious server cannot give out a
proof for label with a value which is inconsistent with the corre-
sponding versions proof at tj that is, val , valj for tj . Checking
this is enough because if the server has given an incorrect key at
time t∗, he will have to introduce an additional update sometime
later to potentially fix it and will hence be caught with high
probability. Hence a malicious server S∗ should not be able to
come up with a label, {(vali , ti)}n
i=1 with versions proof ΠVer,
commitments and update proofs ΠUpd for all times between t1
to tn and query proof(π , val) for some t∗ for val , valj .
For all PPT S∗, there exists a negligible functionν() such that for
allλ∈ N:
Pr[(label,{(vali, ti)} n
i =1, ΠVer,{comk, ΠUpd
k }tcurrent
k =t1
,
t∗, j,(π, val))← S∗(1λ) :
VKD.QueryVer(comt∗, label, val,π)
∧ VKD.Audit(t1, tcurrent,{comk, ΠUpd
k }tcurrent
k =t1
)
∧ VKD.HistoryVer(comtcurrent, label,{(vali, ti)} n
i =1, ΠVer)
∧( val , valj)∧( tj≤ t∗ < tj+1)
∧ j∈[ 1, n]∧ t1≤ . . .≤ tn≤ tcurrent]≤ ν(λ)
Theorem B.1. The construction in Section 4 satisfies VKD sound-
ness as defined above.
Proof. First, we claim that every pair of proofsΠUpd
k , ΠUpd
k+1 must
contain consistent values for comall,k , comold,k . If not, we could
directly build a reduction breaking collision resistance ofH. Now,
we observe that we have a chain ofaZKS commitments and asso-
ciated aZKS update proofs, all of which verify. We claim that the
aZKS commitments comall,t∗ , comold,t∗ and comall,ti , comold,ti
contained inπ and ΠVer must also be consistent with those given
in the ΠUpd proofs. If not, again we can break collision resistance
of H.
Next, say thatπ and ΠVer are aZKS-inconsistent if they contain
a pair of proofs w.r.t. either the “old” or “all”aZKS such that one
is a membership proof at time x and the other is a nonmember-
ship proof for the same label at some time y≥ x, or a pair of
proofs with contradictory vals for the same label (even at dif-
ferent times). Note that an adversary who with non-negligible
probability wins the above soundness game with π , ΠVer that
are aZKS-inconsistent can be directly used to build an adversary
attacking the aZKS soundness property. Thus, we have only to
show that any adversary who successfully breaks VKD sound-
ness must produce aZKS-inconsistent proofs. We argue that as
follows. Letα be the version number contained in proofπ pro-
duced by the adversary. Consider the following cases:
α < jα < jα < j: In this case ΠVer (step (3) of KeyHistory) contains a mem-
bership proof for (label|α) w.r.t. comold,tα +1 and π contains
a non-membership proof for (label|α) w.r.t. comold,t∗, where
t∗ > tj≥ tα +1. (The first inequality follows from the definition,
the second inequality follows fromα < j.)
α = jα = jα = j: In this case ΠVer (step (2) of KeyHistory) contains a mem-
bership proof for(label|α) with value valj in comall,tj , whileπ
contains a membership proof for(label|α) with value val , valj
in comall,t∗.
j <α≤ nj <α≤ nj <α≤ n: In this case ΠVer (step (4) of KeyHistory) contains a
nonmembership proof for(label|α) w.r.t. comall,tα−1, while π
contains a membership proof for(label|α) w.r.t. comall,t∗. Note
that tα− 1≥ tj+1− 1≥ t∗, where the first inequalility follow
from j <α and the second follows from the definition.
n <α < 2a+1n <α < 2a+1n <α < 2a+1 where a is the largest integer s.t.2a≤ n < 2a+1: In
this case ΠVer (step (5) ofKeyHistory) contains a nonmembership
proof for(label|α) w.r.t. comall,tcurrent, whileπ contains a mem-
bership proof for(label|α) w.r.t.comall,t∗. Note that tcurrent≥ t∗,
from the definition.
α≥ 2a+1α≥ 2a+1α≥ 2a+1 where a∈ Z s.t. 2a≤ n < 2a+1: Let b be the largest

integer s.t. 2b≤α. ΠVer (step (6) of KeyHistory) contains a non-
membership proof for(label|mark|b) w.r.t.comall,tcurrent, whileπ
contains a membership proof for(label|mark|b) w.r.t. comall,t∗.
Note, tcurrent≥ t∗, from the definition. □
•L -Privacy: We will say that a VKD is private for leakage func-
tionL =(LPublish, LQuery, LKeyHistory) if there exists a simulator
S =(SPublish,SQuery,SKeyHistory) such that for any PPT client
C∗, the outputs of the following two experiments are computa-
tionally indistinguishable:
In the real game, C∗ is given access to OP , Oπ , OΠVer, three
stateful oracles that share state. Oπ is the proofs oracle
which on query a label label, will output π generated by
(π , val) ← VKD.Query(stt , Dirt , label). OΠVer is the key his-
tory oracle, which on query, label outputs ΠVer generated by
({(vali , ti)}n
i=1, ΠVer)← VKD.KeyHistory(stt , Dirt , label). OP is
the publish oracle which on input update setS, updates directory
Dirt and outputs(comt , ΠUpd
t ) as computed by VKD.Publish().
In the simulated game C∗ is given access to an oracle
which maintains Dirt , but calls the simulators to produce
commitments and proofs. On a Publish query, the oracle
SPublish is given leakage on the update set S given by
LPublish(S), emulates the publish oracle OP . On a Query
query, the oracle looks up val for label in the current di-
rectory Dirt , and calls SQuery(LQuery(label, val), label, val)⁄pilcrow
to emulate the proof oracle Oπ . On a KeyHistory query,
the oracle looks up the history for vali in its direc-
tories Dir1, . . . ,Dirt , calls SKeyHistory(LKeyHistory(label,
{(vali , ti)}n
i=1), label,{(vali , ti)}n
i=1)∥ to emulate the key history
oracle OΠVer.
Theorem B.2. The construction in Section 4 when implemented
with an aZKS with the leakage profile described in Section 4 satisfies
VKD privacy as defined above, with the above leakage functions.
Proof. We first describe the necessary simulators. Recall that
the simulators share state. In this case that state will include three ta-
bles: Tcurrent, which stores the most recent version for labels which
are in QKeyHistory, TQuery, which stores the version for labels which
are inQQuery at the time of their latestQuery query, andTKeyHistory,
which stores the version and epoch for the latestKeyHistory query.
Our simulators will run two instances of theaZKS simulator, which
we will denote aZKS.Simall and aZKS.Simold.
SimPublishSimPublishSimPublish is given as input the number of new registration and
number of key updates, and the setsQQuery, QKeyHistory. On the first
query, SimPublish calls aZKS.Simall
CommitDS and aZKS.Simold
CommitDS
on an empty directory D0 to generate comall,0, comold,0. On subse-
quent queries it behaves as follows:
First, note that the number of additions to ZKS.all will be the
total number of new registrations and updates, while the num-
ber of additions to ZKS.old will be the number of updates. Next
the VKD simulator must construct the sets of labels Qall and Qold
in the current ZKS update sets for which there has been a pre-
vious non-membership query. We do this as follows: for each
label∈ QQuery, look up the version number α in TQuery and add
⁄pilcrowRecall that the leakage functions share state, so this also implicitly gets access to
the leakage from all previous Publish, Query, or KeyHistory queries.
∥see ⁄pilcrow
label|α to Qold (unlessα = 2a in which case we add label|mark|a).
For each query label ∈ QKeyHistory, lookup the current version
αcurrent in Tcurrent and the version αKeyHistory and query epoch
tKeyHistory from the most recent key history query in TKeyHistory.
Letαcurrent =αcurrent + 1, and update the value in Tcurrent. Let a be
the maximum value such that 2a≤ αKeyHistory. Ifαcurrent < 2a+1
add(label|αcurrent) to Qall. If αcurrent = 2b for b ≥ a + 1 and
αcurrent ≤ tKeyHistory, add(label|mark|b) to Qall. Finally, it calls
aZKS.Simall
CommitDS and aZKS.Simold
CommitDS with these leakage val-
ues to obtain updated commitments and proofs.
SimQuerySimQuerySimQuery is given as input the(label, val), and the leakage LQuery,
which is the version numberα of label in the current directory, and
the epoch tprev at which it was last updated.
• It will call the simulatoraZKS.Simall
Query(tcurrent,(label|α), val, tprev)
where tcurrent is the current epoch to generate the member-
ship proof in ZKS.all (or if α = 2a, it will query with
aZKS.Simall
Query(tcurrent,(label|mark|a), val, tprev).
• It will call the simulator aZKS.Simold
Query(tcurrent,(label|α),⊥,⊥)
to generate the non-membership proof in ZKS.old.
Finally, it updates the entry for label in TQuery to store versionα
(or adds it if it does not exist).
SimKeyHistorySimKeyHistorySimKeyHistory is given label,{(vali , ti)}αcurrent
i=1 and generates the sim-
ulated proof as follows:
(1) For each i it outputs the commitments comti , comti−1 pro-
duced by SimPublish, and similarly for the hash values.
(2) For each i it will call the simulator
aZKS.Simall
Query(ti ,(label|i), vali , ti) to generate the mem-
bership proof in ZKS.all (or if i = 2a, it will query with
aZKS.Simall
Query(ti ,(label|mark|a), vali , ti).
(3) For each i it will call the simulatoraZKS.Simold
Query(ti ,(label|i−
1), null,⊥) to generate the membership proof in ZKS.old.
(4) For each i it will call the simulator aZKS.Simall
Query(ti −
1,(label|i), null,⊥) to generate the nonmembership proof in
ZKS.all.
(5) For each j from αcurrent + 1 to 2a+1 − 1 it will run
aZKS.Simall
Query(tcurrent,(label|j), null,⊥) to generate the non-
membership proof in ZKS.all.
(6) For each j from 2a+1 to log(tcurrent) it will run
aZKS.Simall
Query(tcurrent,(label|j), null,⊥) to generate the
nonmembership proof in ZKS.all.
Finally, it updates the entry for label in TKeyHistory to store
(αcurrent, tcurrent) (or adds it if it does not exist). If there is no entry
in Tcurrent for label, it adds it.
Now that we have defined our simulator in terms of the aZKS
simulators, the proof is very straightforward. We introduce one
hybrid game which proceeds as in the simulated game except that
the aZKS simulator for old is replaced by the real aZKS algorithms.
Then we can argue that the real game is indistinguishable from the
hybrid game by the aZKS privacy property, and similarly that the
hybrid game is indistinguishable from the simulated game by the
aZKS privacy property. □

C TRACING VULNERABILITY IN CONIKS
In [3, 20, 26], when a user queries for the same label several times,
she gets values in the proof which depend on the position of her
label in the authentication tree. These values can be positions of
other labels and give information about a label that was not queried.
Hence if Alice gets the proofs for the same label over time, she can
infer about other labels, whether they were updated or deleted. For
example, consider a system with 4 users: Alice, Bob, Charlie, Mary
with P(Alice) = 010, P(Bob) = 011 P(Charlie) = 101, P(Mary) = 110,
P() denotes the position of the label in the tree. The proof for Alice’s
key will contain 011, being its sibling, which is P(Bob). Since the
position is fixed for the entire lifetime of the directory, now Alice
can trace when Bob’s key changes just by querying for her own
key and observing when sibling node changes. While the username
is not directly leaked, once Alice queried for Bob’s key, she will
be able to completely trace when the key changed without ever
querying for his key again. This means, even if Bob has deleted
Alice from his contact list, Alice will still be able to trace when
Bob’s key changed just my looking at the proof of her own key. We
call this attack tracing vulnerability.
D AZKS DEFINITIONS
Soundness. We allowA∗ to win the soundness game if it is able
to do either of the following: Output com, label, val1, val2,π1,π2
such that both proofs verify for val1 , val2. Or output
com1, ...comn, label, val1, val2,π1,π2, S,πS such thatπ1 verifies for
com1, val1 for val1 ,⊥ andπ2 verifies for comn, val2 for val2 ,
val1 and the update verifies for com1, ... . . . , comn,.
In general, we want that for all PPTA∗ algorithm there exists a
negligible functionν() such that for all n,λ:
Pr[(com1,{(comi,π i)} n
i =2, label, val1, val2,π1,π2)←A ∗(1λ, pp) :
{ZKS.VerifyUpd(comi−1, comi,π i) = 1}n
i =2 ∧( val1 ,⊥)∧( val1 , val2)
∧ ZKS.Verify(com1, label, val1,π1) = 1
∧ ZKS.Verify(comn, label, val2,π2) = 1]≤ ν(λ)
Theorem D.1. The construction in Section 5.2 satisfies aZKS
soundness as defined above.
Proof. Here we consider three cases
• The sVRF values presented for label inπ1 andπ2 are different.
In this case we can directly reduce to the verifiability property
of the sVRF.
• val2 ,⊥ and the leaf commitments presented for label inπ1,π2
are the same. In this case we can directly reduce to the bindind
property of the commitment scheme.
• The sVRF values are the same, and either the commitments are
different, orπ2 is a non-membership proof. In this case we can
directly reduce to soundness of the strong accumulator.
□
Privacy. In our definition, we have an initial commitment leakage
function LCommitDS, a query leakage functionLQuery, and a leakage
function on the updates LUpdateDS. LCommitDS captures what we
leak about the collection/datastore when initializing the system,
LQuery captures what is leaked by the proofs for each query, and
LUpdateDS captures what we leak during an update. Note that all
of these are stateful functions that share state, so e.g. LQuery may
depend on previous CommitDS and UpdateDS queries.
We will say that an updatable ZKS is zero knowledge for leak-
age function L =(LCommitDS, LQuery, LUpdateDS) if there exists a
simulator Sim =(SimCommitDS, SimQuery, SimUpdateDS) such that
for any PPT malicious client algorithms C∗, the outputs of the
following two experiments are computationally indistinguishable:
In the real game, the adversary C∗ produces an ini-
tial directory D0, and receives the output (com, stcom) ←
ZKS.CommitDS(1λ, D0). It then gets oracle access to two oracles,
OQ , and OU . OU is the update oracle which on input a set of
updates S ={(labeli , vali)} will output(com′, stcom,t +1,πS)←
ZKS.UpdateDS(stcom,t , Dt , S). The game keeps track of the state
of the datastore Dt after every update. The second oracle isOQ , the
query oracle which on query datastore version t and labeli , will
output(πi , vali)← ZKS.Query(stcom,t , Dt , labeli).
In the simulated game, theC∗ produces an initial datastore D0,
and receives the output com← SimCommitDS(1λ, LCommitDS(D0)).
C∗ then gets access to simulated versions of the two oracles. On
UpdateDS queries, SimUpdateDS emulates the update oracle OU :
it gets a leakage on the set to be updated outputs (com′,πS)←
SimUpdateDS(ŁUpdateDS(S)). On Query queries, the oracle outputs
vali andπi← SimQuery(t, labeli , vali , LQuery(t, labeli , vali)).
Leakage. The concrete leakage for our ZKS is: LCommitDSLCommitDSLCommitDS reveals
the size of the datastore. LQueryLQueryLQuery reveals when each queried item
was added to the datastore. LUpdateDSLUpdateDSLUpdateDS reveals the number of items
added. It also reveals the set Q of labels of items in this update for
which there had been a previous non-membership query.
Theorem D.2. The construction in Section 5.2 satisfies aZKS pri-
vacy as defined above with the specified leakage functions.
Proof. We first define the simulator:
SimCommitDSSimCommitDSSimCommitDS takes as input the size N of the data store. It uses
the sVRF simulator to generate an sVRF public key. It chooses N
random strings as the output of the sVRF (we will refer to them
below as leaf strings), and uses the sCS simulator to form the com-
mitments. Then it builds a tree as in the real protocol.
SimQuerySimQuerySimQuery takes as input the zks version t, the label label, the cor-
responding value val (or⊥ if label is not in Dt ), and the update
tprev when label was added to the datastore. If val ,⊥ it chooses
an unused leaf string from the tprevth update, simulates the sVRF
proof to show that that is the correct value for label, and simulates
an opening of sCS to val. If val =⊥, it chooses a random leaf string,
simulates the sVRF proof to show that that is the correct value for
label, and constructs the rest of the proof as in the real protocol.
Finally, it records that that leaf string has been assigned to label.
(Future Query’s for label will use the same leaf string.)
SimUpdateDSSimUpdateDSSimUpdateDStakes as input the number of items added and the setQ
of new items for which there had been a previous non-membership
query. For each label in Q, it looks up the leaf string that was as-
signed to label by SimQuery, for the remaining number of items it
chooses random leaf strings. For each item it also uses the sCS si-
multator to form the corresponding commitment. Then it performs
the rest of the update algorithm as in the real protocol. The proof

that this simulator satisfies the privacy definition follows from a
fairly straightforward series of games:
Game 1: Real game.
Game 2: As in game 1, but commitments and openings are simu-
lated. Indistinguishable by the hiding property of the sCS.
Game 3: As in game 2, but the sVRF public key and sVRF proofs
are generated by the sVRF simulator, and the leaf strings are chosen
at random. Indistinguishable by simulatability of sVRF.
Game 4: Simulated game. Identical to game 3.
□