Talek: Private Group Messaging with Hidden Access Patterns
Raymond Cheng
University of Washington
ryscheng@cs.washington.edu
William Scott
University of Washington
wrs@cs.washington.edu
Elisaweta Masserova
Carnegie Mellon University
elisawem@andrew.cmu.edu
Irene Zhang
Microsoft Research
irene.zhang@microsoft.com
Vipul Goyal
Carnegie Mellon University
vipul@cmu.edu
Thomas Anderson
University of Washington
tom@cs.washington.edu
Arvind Krishnamurthy
University of Washington
arvind@cs.washington.edu
Bryan Parno
Carnegie Mellon University
parno@cmu.edu
Abstract
Talek is a private group messaging system that sends messages
through potentially untrustworthy servers, while hiding both data
content and the communication patterns among its users. Talek
explores a new point in the design space of private messaging; it
guarantees access sequence indistinguishability, which is among
the strongest guarantees in the space, while assuming an anytrust
threat model, which is only slightly weaker than the strongest
threat model currently found in related work. Our results suggest
that this is a pragmatic point in the design space, since it supports
strong privacy and good performance: we demonstrate a 3-server
Talek cluster that achieves throughput of 9,433 messages/second for
32,000 active users with 1.7-second end-to-end latency. To achieve
its security goals without coordination between clients, Talek relies
on information-theoretic private information retrieval. To achieve
good performance and minimize server-side storage, Talek intro-
duces new techniques and optimizations that may be of independent
interest, e.g., a novel use of blocked cuckoo hashing and support for
private notifications. The latter provide a private, efficient mech-
anism for users to learn, without polling, which logs have new
messages.
CCS Concepts
• Security and privacy→ Pseudonymity, anonymity and un-
traceability; Privacy-preserving protocols.
Keywords
privacy, anonymity, messaging
ACM Reference Format:
Raymond Cheng, William Scott, Elisaweta Masserova, Irene Zhang, Vipul
Goyal, Thomas Anderson, Arvind Krishnamurthy, and Bryan Parno. 2020.
Talek: Private Group Messaging with Hidden Access Patterns. In Annual
Computer Security Applications Conference (ACSAC 2020), December 7–11,
2020, Austin, USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 16 pages. https://doi.org/10.
1145/3427228.3427231
Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored.
For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).
ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA
© 2020 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-8858-0/20/12.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3427228.3427231
1 Introduction
Messaging applications depend on cloud servers to exchange data,
giving server operators full visibility into the communication pat-
terns between users. Even if the communication contents are en-
crypted, network metadata can be used to infer which users share
messages, when traffic is sent, where data is sent, and how much is
transferred. This can allow the servers and/or network providers
to infer the contents of the communication [ 53]. When remote
hacking, insider threats, and government requests are common,
protecting the privacy of communications requires that we guaran-
tee security against a stronger threat model. For some users, e.g.,
journalists and activists, protecting metadata is critical to their job
function and safety [68, 69].
As we describe in §10, a wide variety of systems explore ways
of protecting the privacy of such metadata. We can classify this
prior work into two groups based on the privacy guarantees of-
fered and the threat model each system defends against. The first
group of work [8–10, 19, 46, 47, 50, 72] offers strong security guar-
antees against very strong threat models (e.g., assuming that only
the clients themselves are trusted). Unfortunately, this typically
imposes prohibitive computational or network costs. The second
group [2, 4, 28, 29, 31, 58–60, 63, 76, 79, 87, 89, 90] offers weaker
security guarantees (such as k-anonymity [85], plausible deniabil-
ity [52] or differential privacy [ 39, 40]) and often much weaker
threat models too; e.g., a fraction of the servers must be honest.
However, in exchange for weakening the guarantees and threat
model, these systems often achieve impressive performance results.
In this work, we explore an intriguing middle ground: we define
access sequence indistinguishability, a notion similar to (but slightly
stronger than) the security guarantees from systems in the first
group, and combine it with an “anytrust” threat model [91], which
is slightly weaker than the threat models of the first group, but
stronger than those of the second group. Intuitively, the anytrust
threat model assumes that different organisations, e.g., Mozilla, EFF,
and WikiLeaks, each provide servers and at least one (unknown)
organisation can be trusted. The hope is that we can promise the
strong guarantees of the first group and the strong performance of
the second, while defending against a strong threat model.
To explore this design point, we construct Talek, a private com-
munication system targeting small groups of trusted users com-
municating amongst themselves (e.g., friends chatting via IRC or
arXiv:2001.08250v3  [cs.CR]  16 Dec 2020

ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA R. Cheng, W. Scott, E. Masserova, I. Zhang, V. Goyal, T. Anderson, A. Krishnamurthy, and B. Parno
text messaging). To support such applications, Talek offers the ab-
straction of a private log with a single writer and multiple readers.
Clients store and retrieve asynchronous messages on untrusted
servers without revealing any communication metadata. If the
group of friends and at least one server are uncompromised, Talek
prevents an adversary from learning anything about their commu-
nication patterns. Combined with standard message encryption,
Talek conceals both thecontents and metadata of clients’ application
usage without sacrificing cloud reliability and availability.
Similar to prior systems, to hide communication patterns, Talek
clients issue fix-sized, random-looking network requests at a rate
which is independent of application-level requests. Hence, application-
level requests must occasionally be delayed, and “dummy” network
requests must be issued when no application requests are ready.
As with any privacy system, careful application-specific tuning is
necessary to trade off between the amount of cover traffic sent and
the latency of real application requests.
Unlike prior systems with Talek’s strong guarantees, to achieve
good performance, Talek leverages the anytrust threat model, which
allows us to use information theoretic private information retrieval
(IT-PIR) [27, 35, 45]. IT-PIR requires an anytrust assumption, but
in exchange it avoids the use of heavyweight crypto operations
required for other flavors of PIR [57]. Abstractly, PIR allows a client
to retrieve the 𝑖-th record from a “database” of 𝑛 items held col-
lectively by𝑙 servers, without the servers learning which record
was retrieved. However, PIR alone (of any flavor) is not enough to
support efficient group messaging. In particular, it does not explain
how messages are privately written to the servers, how readers find
messages sent to them, nor how to structure the PIR database to
facilitate maximum efficiency.
In Talek, within a group of clients reading and writing to a mes-
sage log, a shared secret determines a pseudorandom, deterministic
sequence of database locations for messages. Any user with the log
secret (a capability) can follow the pseudorandom sequence, read-
ing new messages independently. One of Talek’s key innovations is
to show how these messages can be stored in a blocked cuckoo hash
table [36] to provide efficient time and space usage in the context
of IT-PIR. We further optimize read performance via a novel tech-
nique - private notifications. Private notifications allow users who
subscribe to multiple logs to learn, in a privacy-preserving fashion,
which of their logs have new messages. Hence, they can internally
prioritize reading from those logs and avoid inefficient polling of
logs that have no new messages.
Like any privacy system, Talek has several limitations. First, the
current implementation of Talek does not guarantee liveness; any
user in a trusted group can block writes to that group’s log. Similarly,
a faulty server can impact availability. Clients can detect but not
attribute such faults. Hence, service providers should be chosen
with reputations for high availability. An alternative is to use robust
versions of PIR [35, 45] at the cost of higher overhead. We defer
investigating this option to future work. Second, because clients
connect directly to Talek servers, as with other practical systems [9,
10, 58–61, 87, 89], we do not hide when users are online. Orthogonal
systems (e.g., Tor [37]) may help here. Third, as discussed earlier,
we expect Talek to be used for communication among small groups
of trusted users. If a log secret is shared with the adversary, writer
anonymity for that log is compromised, but readers’ anonymity
and writer anonymity for other logs are preserved. Applications
that require broadcasts to many untrusted users (e.g., a public blog)
are better served by anonymous broadcast systems [28, 29, 31, 90].
We have implemented two versions of Talek, one entirely in Go
and one that offloads PIR operations to a GPU; our code is publicly
available. We evaluated the system on a 3-server deployment using
Amazon EC2. To provide a realistic group messaging workload, we
replay the Ubuntu IRC message logs from 2016 [3]. Overall, we find
that this design point is surprisingly practical. Even with 32,000
clients actively reading and writing messages according to a fixed
schedule every second, we show that clients use 148MB per day
to achieve an average end-to-end message latency of 1.7 seconds,
measured from the time a sender enters a message to the time
the recipient sees it. Under this workload, our server supports a
peak throughput of 9,433 messages per second, orders of magnitude
better performance than systems with similar security goals.
In summary, we make the following contributions.
(1) Talek, a system that explores an important design point within
private group messaging with strong guarantees, strong threat
model, and high performance.
(2) A novel use of blocked cuckoo hashing for IT-PIR.
(3) Private notifications which privately encode the set of new
messages, helping clients prioritize reads.
(4) Two open-source implementations of Talek exploring the trade-
offs between CPU and GPU-based computation.
2 Background: PIR
Talek uses the privacy guarantees of PIR in the context of a group
messaging protocol. PIR allows a single client to retrieve a block
from a set of storage replicas without revealing to any server the
blocks of interest to the client. There exist two major categories of
PIR techniques, computational PIR (C-PIR) [57] and information-
theoretic PIR (IT-PIR) [27, 35, 45]. Talek is compatible with both
varieties. Prior work [9, 10] explored C-PIR, since it supports the
strongest possible threat model: only the communication partners
must be trusted. However, their results indicate that C-PIR imposes
significant computation and network overheads, raising practical-
ity concerns. With Talek, we focus on IT-PIR, which requires an
anytrust threat model but holds the promise of better performance.
To provide intuition for the performance and cost of IT-PIR, we
illustrate a standard protocol [27] with an example. Let𝑙 represent
the number of servers, each storing a full copy of the database,
partitioned into equal sized blocks. While IT-PIR generalizes to
arbitrary numbers of servers and blocks, our example contains
𝑙 = 3 servers and𝑛 = 3 blocks ({𝐵1,𝐵 2,𝐵 3}).
(1) Suppose a client wants to read the second block,𝛽 = 2, encoded
by the bit vector,𝑞′ =[0, 1, 0], which consists of zeros and a
one in position𝛽.
(2) The client generates𝑙− 1 (e.g., 2) random𝑛-bit request vectors,
𝑞1 and𝑞2.
(3) The client computes the last request vector as the XOR of the
vectors from (1) and (2),𝑞𝑙 =𝑞′⊕𝑞1⊕... ⊕𝑞𝑙−1.
(4) The client then sends𝑞𝑖, to server𝑖 for 1≤𝑖≤𝑙. Since request
vectors are generated randomly, this reveals no information to
any collection of <𝑙 colluding servers.

Talek: Private Group Messaging with Hidden Access Patterns ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA
(5) Suppose𝐵𝑗 represents the𝑗𝑡ℎ block of the database. Each server
𝑖 receives𝑞𝑖 =[𝑏1,...,𝑏 𝑛] and computes𝑅𝑖, the XOR of all𝐵𝑗
for which𝑏𝑗 == 1 and returns𝑅𝑖 to the client.
(6) The client restores the desired block,𝐵𝛽, by taking the XOR of
all𝑅𝑖, i.e.,𝐵𝛽 =𝑅1⊕... ⊕𝑅𝑙 (since𝑞′ =𝑞1⊕... ⊕𝑞𝑙 , and𝑞′ is
all zeroes except at index𝛽).
IT-PIR has desirable network properties: a client sends one re-
quest vector and receives one block from each server. These requests
and responses appear random to the network and the servers, as-
suming at least one server is honest. The size of a client request
scales with total number of blocks, and the client work scales with
the number of servers.
For the servers, IT-PIR can be computationally expensive even
though the individual operations (XOR) are cheap, since the compu-
tational cost for a read request scales at least linearly with the size
and number of blocks in the system. Theoretical work suggests this
limitation is inherent (§10). IT-PIR also requires consistent snap-
shots across servers, with equal sized blocks in the data structure.
3 Problem Definition & Threat Model
Figure 1 illustrates our problem setting: various clients located
across a wide-area network communicate via a messaging service.
The service is provided by𝑙 servers each controlled by a different
administrative domain.
We wish to prevent the adversary from learning any information
about the communication patterns amongst honest users. While
not described in this paper, other end-to-end messaging guaran-
tees [88], such as message integrity, authentication [13, 78], forward
secrecy [6], and fork consistency [64, 66], can be provided by Talek
by including additional data in the message payload. We focus on
the privacy of access sequences, since that forms the foundation
for private messaging.
We provide a model of client and server interactions (§ 3.1), and
then formally introduce access sequence indistinguishability (§ 3.2).
We define it as a game played in rounds between an adversary and
a challenger. The adversary controls some number of dishonest
Alice
Sybil
Clients
Server 1
Server 2
Server 3
Adversary
payload
payload
t1
t2
Bob
Write
Read
Track:
- Users
- Requests
- Times
Figure 1: Talek’s System and Threat Model.We assume the adversary can control
all but one of 𝑙 servers in the system (here, 𝑙 = 3). Clients send network requests
directly to the servers. Adversarial servers are free to record additional data, such as
the source, type, parameters, timing, and size of all requests to link users who are
likely to be communicating together.
clients and servers, the challenger controls some number of honest
clients and randomly chooses a challenge bit which is fixed for the
duration of the game. Informally, in each round, the adversary spec-
ifies two actions for each honest client, the challenger chooses one
according to the challenge bit and adds it to the request queue of the
corresponding client. Then, the challenger executes all requests that
must be executed in this round as specified by the real-world pro-
tocol. Intuitively, the notion of access sequence indistinguishability
means that an adversary cannot distinguish between an honest
user’s access patterns and a random access pattern of arbitrary
length.
Access sequence indistinguishability provides one of the strongest
definitions of privacy available in private group messaging. It is
reminiscent of the definitions used in early works on oblivious RAM
(ORAM) [46, 47, 72], but it supports multiple distinct readers and
writers. It is stronger than k-anonymity [85], where the adversary
can narrow the user’s identity down to one of𝑘 users (where for
performance,𝑘 is typically much smaller than the number of on-
line users). It is also stronger than plausible deniability [52], where
information leakage is allowed up to a certain confidence bound.
It is different from unobservability [ 51], in that we do not hide
the maximum number of messages sent by the user, but we do
account for the order of the messages in the access sequences. It
is most similar to the notion of relationship unobservability under
explicit retrieval (UO-ER) [9, 10], which is based on the notion of
relationship unobservability [75]. We believe access sequence in-
distinguishability offers a cleaner definition, however, and differs
in at least two small, concrete ways:
(1) In UO-ER, at least one message is sent and received in each
round. In access sequence indistinguishability, the send and
receive rates are decoupled.
(2) In access sequence indistinguishability, the adversary is fully
adaptive, i.e., the adversary can observe the network events
and modify its strategy in each round. In UO-ER, each time
the adversary adapts its strategy, the state of the clients resets,
which may reduce the adversary’s utility from acting adaptively.
3.1 Model
Our setting consists of a finite set of servers and clients, and we
assume that all parties are stateful. The overall system consists of
the following, possibly randomized and interactive, subroutines:
RealWrite(𝜏,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜,𝑀 )→{ 𝜔 0,...,𝜔 𝑙−1}: Clients use the Real-
Write function to generate Write requests sent to the𝑙 servers. The
RealWrite function takes as input a log handle𝜏 and a message𝑀
with the sequence number𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜 to publish to the log, producing
a set of𝑙 Write requests, one per server.
FakeWrite()→{ 𝜔 0,...,𝜔 𝑙−1}: Clients use the FakeWrite func-
tion to generate a set of random “dummy” Write requests, one per
server.
RealRead(𝜏,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜)→{ 𝑞0,...,𝑞 𝑙−1}: Clients use the RealRead
function to generate Read request queries sent to the servers. It
takes as input a log handle𝜏 and a sequence number𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜 in the
log, producing a set of𝑙 Read requests, one per server.
FakeRead()→{ 𝑞0,...,𝑞 𝑙−1}: Clients use FakeRead to generate a
set of random Read requests, one per server.

ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA R. Cheng, W. Scott, E. Masserova, I. Zhang, V. Goyal, T. Anderson, A. Krishnamurthy, and B. Parno
GetUpdates()→ 𝑉 : Clients use the GetUpdates function (modeled
as an interactive subroutine) to retrieve the global interest vector,𝑉 ,
from the servers. The global interest vector encodes the set of (log
handle, message sequence number)-pairs for all messages currently
on the server.
ProcessWrite(𝜔𝑖)→⊥ : Server𝑖 uses the ProcessWrite function
to process an incoming write request,𝜔𝑖, and update the server’s
internal state.
ProcessRead(𝑞𝑖)→ 𝑅𝑖 : Server𝑖 uses the ProcessRead function to
process incoming read requests. The function takes as input a read
request,𝑞𝑖, and outputs a reply𝑅𝑖.
ProcessGetUpdates()→ 𝑉𝑖 : Server𝑖 uses ProcessGetUpdates to
generate a global interest vector,𝑉𝑖.
3.2 Security Game Definition
We define access sequence indistinguishability using the following
security game, played between the adversary, 𝒜 , and a challenger,
𝒞 . 𝒜 is a probabilistic, polynomial-time adversary who is in con-
trol of the network, 𝑡 out of𝑙 servers (for Talek, 𝑡 = 𝑙− 1), and
a polynomial number of clients. 𝒜 can drop any message, send
arbitrary messages from any of the adversarial clients to any server,
respond arbitrarily to requests, and modify any server-side state for
adversarial servers. The challenger, in turn, emulates (internally)
the honest clients and servers.
Intuitively, the game allows the adversary to repeatedly, dynam-
ically, and adaptively specify any two actions for each legitimate
client to take. The challenger has the client execute one of the two
actions, based on the random bit𝑏 chosen for the game, and the
adversary can then choose new actions for the legitimate clients
and/or have its malicious clients and servers take actions. This
continues until the adversary produces a guess for the value of𝑏. If
the adversary does no better than random chance, this implies that
the adversary cannot determine which users access the same logs,
because the adversary could have chosen to have client actions
with overlapping logs across users.
In the definition, for simplicity, we assume the presence of au-
thenticated secure channels between each client-server pair (e.g.,
with TLS) and omit the corresponding operations.
(1) 𝒜 chooses a non-negative integer,𝑚, and submits this number
to the challenger, who spawns𝑚 clients, 𝒞0... 𝒞𝑚−1.
(2) The challenger flips a coin, 𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, uniformly at random,
which is fixed for the duration of the game.
(3) For each of the challenger’s clients,𝒞𝑗 , 𝒜 maintains two unique
data access sequences,𝑠𝑒𝑞 0
𝑗 and𝑠𝑒𝑞 1
𝑗 .
(4) The challenger maintains a table 𝑇 of log handles that have
been created.𝑇 is initially empty.
(5) In each round, until 𝒜 ends the game, one of the following four
actions happens:
(a) 𝒜 creates a log
• 𝒜 submits a create log request to the challenger. This request
specifies the index of a client acting as a writer of the log,
and the indices of the clients acting as readers of the log.
• 𝒞 checks the client indices provided in the create log request,
and if all indices correspond to the clients spawned by the
challenger, 𝒞 generates a log handle𝜏. 𝒞 saves𝜏 in𝑇 and
returns the corresponding index𝑖𝑛𝑑 in𝑇 to the adversary.
(b) 𝒜 causes clients to GetUpdates
• 𝒜 identifies a set of clients𝐼.
• Clients in𝐼 execute GetUpdates. Challenger-controlled servers
respond with ProcessGetUpdates.
(c) 𝒜 extends the access sequences
• For all𝑚 challenger clients, 𝒜 chooses the𝑖-th operation
for both sequences:{𝑠𝑒𝑞 0
0[𝑖]...𝑠𝑒𝑞 0
𝑚−1[𝑖]} and
{𝑠𝑒𝑞 1
0[𝑖],...𝑠𝑒𝑞 1
𝑚−1[𝑖]}. 𝒜 submits operations𝑠𝑒𝑞 0
𝑗[𝑖] and
𝑠𝑒𝑞 1
𝑗[𝑖] to the respective client, 𝒞𝑗 . An operation can be
(𝑖𝑛𝑑, RealWrite(·,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜,𝑀 )),(𝑖𝑛𝑑, RealRead(·,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜)),
FakeWrite(), or FakeRead(), where𝑖𝑛𝑑 is the index of the
log handle for the request.
• Each client, 𝒞𝑗 , receives one operation: 𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑏
𝑗[𝑖]. If it is a
FakeRead() or FakeWrite() operation, 𝒞𝑗 adds it to its
read- or write queue, respectively. Otherwise, the challenger
looks up the index 𝑖𝑛𝑑 in table𝑇 . If it finds the index and
corresponding log handle 𝜏, client 𝒞𝑗 sets the log handle
of𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑏
𝑗[𝑖] to𝜏 and adds this updated operation to the read
queue if𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑏
𝑗[𝑖] is a RealRead, and to the write queue if it
is a RealWrite.
• If a write request must be issued this round (according to the
write rate𝑤), each challenger client 𝒞𝑗 dequeues a request
from its write queue and executes it. If the write queue is
empty, 𝒞𝑗 executes a FakeWrite.
• If a read request must be issued this round (according to the
read rate𝑟), each challenger client 𝒞𝑗 dequeues a request
from its read queue and executes it. If the read queue is
empty, 𝒞𝑗 executes a FakeRead.
• Challenger-controlled servers use the ProcessReadand
ProcessWrite routines to respond to the corresponding re-
quests.
• Adversary-controlled clients can send arbitrary requests to
any server. Adversary-controlled servers can modify their
own state and respond arbitrarily.
• 𝒜 observes the network events,𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠𝑏′
𝑗 [𝑖] sent from 𝒞 ’s
clients to all servers, including the outputs of RealWrite,
FakeWrite, RealRead, and FakeRead.
(d) 𝒜 ends the game with its guess, 𝑏′, for𝑏.
Definition 3.1. (Access Sequence Indistinguishability) The sys-
tem provides access sequence indistinguishability with security
parameter𝜆 if for any polynomial-time probabilistic adversary
|𝑃𝑟(𝑏 =𝑏′)− 1/2|≤ 𝑛𝑒𝑔𝑙(𝜆)
in the security game, where𝑛𝑒𝑔𝑙 is a negligible function.
In the game, when the adversary asks to create a log, we restrict
the members of the group to honest clients, which corresponds
directly to the trusted group assumption. We do not hide retrievals
of the global interest vector via GetUpdates, but we do hide the
fact that a user of a trusted group is executing a real read or write
request. In Talek,𝑡 =𝑙− 1, since this corresponds to the anytrust
threat model.
Availability Threats to availability are out of scope for this
paper. During normal operation, all servers must be available and
reachable by the clients. Each server can deny service availability
by refusing to respond or by responding with faulty information.

Talek: Private Group Messaging with Hidden Access Patterns ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA
However, the application developer and clients can detect (though
not attribute) such faulty behavior. We assume developers will
choose services known for availability. While we do not discuss it in
this paper, Byzantine fault tolerant variations of private information
retrieval [35, 45] can be used for better availability guarantees at
the cost of higher overhead. Adversarial clients can also degrade
service through denial-of-service attacks.
Intersection attacks An ideal private messaging system would
make an honest user’s actions perfectly indistinguishable from all
other honest users actions. Even such a perfect system would still
have its limitations; for example, if only two honest users ever
participate, then an attacker can infer that those two users are
likely to be communicating with each other.
In practice, most private messaging systems do not achieve ideal
hiding; instead they hide a user’s actions with a smaller anonymity
set, e.g., the set of all online users, or online writers, or even a
smaller subset thereof. These compromises are made due to practical
constraints or the desire for better performance. For example, if
users are allowed to go offline without causing the rest of the
system to stop functioning, then the anonymity set of any active
user is necessarily reduced to only those users active at the same
time. Since these anonymity sets change over time (e.g., based on
when users come online), users may be vulnerable to intersection
attacks [33, 56, 67] in which the adversary observes a particular
user’s anonymity sets over time, and, by intersecting those sets,
narrows down the user’s overall anonymity set.
Talek provably provides access sequence indistinguishability,
but, as with most private messaging systems [9, 10, 58–61, 87, 89],
for practical reasons allows users to go offline. Thus, an honest
user is hidden amongst all honest online users. This offers stronger
privacy than systems based on k-anonymity. In such systems, for
performance reasons,𝑘 is usually set to be much smaller than the
set of all online users (e.g.,𝑘 might be the number of users actively
writing in a round). Furthermore, in each round of communication,
the chosen set of𝑘 users may vary, and so the adversary has many
opportunities to perform intersection attacks on these small sets.
3.3 Assumptions
To provide access sequence indistinguishability, Talek relies on
several assumptions. We assume that server storage capacity is
scaled to the number of clients. We assume that communicating
clients already know each others’ long-term public keys. Talek is
compatible with bootstrapping keys from other applications [5, 34]
or identity-based encryption [16, 17, 62]. We assume each server
has a public-private key pair,𝑝𝑘,𝑠𝑘 , generated using an algorithm
𝑃𝐾𝐺𝑒𝑛(), and that all server public keys are known to all users. Es-
tablishing such keys is orthogonal to the properties Talek provides.
As with prior work [9, 10], Talek supports groups of mutually
trusting users that protect shared secrets. If this trust is misplaced,
the writer’s anonymity may be lost, but PIR still preserves reader
anonymity.
4 Design Overview
In this section, we give a brief overview of Talek’s key design
decisions. Later, we present Talek’s core operations more formally
and in greater detail (§5), followed by two optimizations to improve
read performance: serialized PIR (§6) and private notifications (§7).
App
libtalek
Client Developer Interface (CDI)
subscribe()
ReadWrite
Network Protocol Interface (NPI)
Server 1
publish()
write-queue
Data
Server 2 Server 3
read-queue
Figure 2: Talek Client Interface. Application calls are translated by the client
library into scheduled messages with equal-sized parameters and contents that appear
random to an adversary. Clients behave identically from the perspective of any𝑙− 1
servers.
Talek’s core abstraction is a private log, which enables a single
writer to share messages with many readers. Groups can then be
formed with separate logs for every writer, such that all members
subscribe to the logs of all other group members.
In general, we do not expect to see a single universal Talek
service; instead, we expect developers (or federations thereof) will
stand up separate Talek instances (e.g., one for Instagram and one
for Twitter). In practice, a single application might even run two
parallel instances of Talek, e.g., one for text-based data, and one with
higher latency for images. Running separate instances will allow
developers to better tune Talek’s parameters to their application.
4.1 Talek’s Client Interface
Talek achieves our security goal by requiring all users to behave
identically from the perspective of any colluding set of 𝑙− 1 servers. A
key step in this direction is decoupling the real rate at which a user
generates application read/write requests from the rate at which
network read/write operations are performed.
As Figure 2 illustrates, developers link their messaging applica-
tion to the Talek client library, which maintains internal read- and
write queues. Whenever a request is issued by the messaging appli-
cation, Talek places its payload on the corresponding internal queue.
The Talek client library issues equal-sizedRead and Write network
requests at a rate that is independent of the user’s real request
rate, issuing a dummy request (i.e., a FakeWrite or a FakeRead)
if the respective queue is empty. To preserve privacy, aFakeWrite
(FakeRead) request, including its parameters and payload, must
be indistinguishable from a RealWrite (RealRead) request. Talek
achieves this by defining a globally-fixed message size,𝑧, to which
messages are split and padded to fit. Messages are then encrypted
with a symmetric authenticated encryption scheme [14] to provide
confidentiality and authenticity.
Choosing appropriate network rates In practice, the devel-
oper should measure real global usage and sample randomly from
this aggregate distribution. They could also configure a fixed burst
of messages every time a user comes online. Privacy is preserved as
long as the distribution of requests is independent of user activity.
4.2 Oblivious Logging Overview
Decoupling the real rate at which a user generates read/write re-
quests from the network request rate is insufficient for privacy, as it
fails to hide which users read each other’s messages. Hence, Talek

ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA R. Cheng, W. Scott, E. Masserova, I. Zhang, V. Goyal, T. Anderson, A. Krishnamurthy, and B. Parno
Server 1
Client
L1#1B1
write(buckets,data) L2#2 L1#3
L1#2 L2#4 L2#5
L2#1 L3#1 L3#4
L1#4 L3#3 L1#5
L2#3 L3#2 L2#6
B2
B3
B4
B5
….
….
Blocked Hash Table
B6 …. ….
L3#4
L4#1
L2#6
L1#7
L1#6
….
n
d
b
Legend
Buckets: {B1,B2,…}
Logs: {L1,L2,…}
Rolling window
Figure 3: Server Data Structures and Workflow. Garbage collection discards all
but the latest𝑛 messages. Client writes specify two random buckets in which each
message can be placed, forming a blocked cuckoo hash table. Logs are spread over the
hash table, and read using PIR. Messages in the same log are colored with the same
shade in the diagram.
uses PIR (§2) to allow users to retrieve records privately. However,
PIR alone does not explain how to write messages to the servers or
how to let communication partners know which messages to read.
To allow clients to readand write messages privately without ex-
plicit coordination, Talek issues writes to pseudo-random locations
on each server, similar to prior work [9, 10, 61, 87, 89]. We call our
version of this technique oblivious logging. The sequence of write
locations is determined by applying a pseudorandom function,𝑃𝑅𝐹 ,
to a secret log handle shared between the log’s writer and readers.
Readers use PIR to retrieve messages by following the PRF-derived
sequence of locations.
Hence, server simply see a series of seemingly random writes
and PIR-protected reads, hiding the communication patterns be-
tween writers and readers. Exposure of the log handle (e.g., by
an untrustworthy group member) will expose the writer’s access
pattern, but not reader consumption patterns, since the latter are
protected information theoretically by PIR’s guarantees.
4.3 Talek’s Server Design
Servers store a limited set of messages to allow asynchronous
senders and receivers to be decoupled in time. Since the cost of PIR
operations scales linearly with database size, for good performance
we fix the number of messages stored on each server to𝑛, garbage
collecting the oldest.𝑛 is directly related to the time-to-live,𝑇𝑇𝐿 ,
for messages, which dictates how tightly synchronized senders and
receivers must be. As the number of clients in the system grows,
the system requires larger values of𝑛 to support the same𝑇𝑇𝐿 .
Like prior messaging systems [9, 10], we face the challenge of
finding a way to efficiently pack messages into a dense data struc-
ture that is compatible with PIR. One of Talek’s key innovations
is the use of a blocked cuckoo hash table [ 36, 74], characterized
by a fixed value of 𝑏 buckets each containing 𝑑 messages. Each
client Write request explicitly specifies (to the servers) two pseudo-
randomly chosen buckets in which the message can be inserted.
The servers apply the standard cuckoo-hash insertion algorithm,
which potentially results in cuckoo evictions if both buckets are
full, but guarantees that every item ends up in one of its two hash-
selected locations. When the client performs a Read request, the
hash table is treated as a PIR database with each hash bucket as an
entry. The client uses PIR to retrieve an entire hash bucket without
revealing to the server which bucket it retrieved.
Blocked cuckoo hashing has a number of desirable properties.
Compared to chained hash tables, all buckets have an equal fixed
size, a necessary requirement for PIR. Further, only a single copy of
each message written is stored, minimizing storage overhead. To
handle collisions, the size of the table does need to be larger than
𝑛, but with blocked cuckoo hashing the overhead is generally less
than 20% for reasonable values of the bucket size𝑑. This also helps
minimize the cost of PIR operations, which grow with the size of
the database. Finally, there are only two possible locations for each
message, and thus a client issues at most twoRead requests to check
both buckets where a message could be stored; this is important as
PIR operations are expensive. If the client finds the message it is
looking for in the first bucket, then it can use its next Read request
for another RealRead, rather than querying the second cuckoo
hash location. From the server’s perspective, the client is simply
issuing a stream of opaque PIR requests.
5 Talek’s Core Operations
This section expands on the overview from §4 to provide details
on the Talek protocol for creating single-writer, multi-reader logs.
Log handles (§5.2) allow readers to find the latest content from
writers without explicit coordination. They dictate how messages
are written into the servers’ cuckoo hash tables (§5.3), and how
readers retrieve messages using PIR (§5.4). Because reads are done
with PIR, many readers can poll the same log repeatedly without
revealing information. Finally, we provide some intuition (§5.6) for
Talek’s proof of security (Appendix A.2).
Figure 4 summarizes the client/server interfaces and state.
Client Developer Interface (CDI)
Publish(log, message)
Subscribe(log)
Network Protocol Interface (NPI)
Write(bucket1, bucket2, encryptedMsg, interestVector)
Read(requestVectors[])→ encryptedData
GetUpdates()→ globalInterestVector
Client State
•𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑠 - List of subscribed logs
•𝑤𝑟𝑖𝑡𝑒𝑄𝑢𝑒𝑢𝑒 - Queue of write operations
•𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑄𝑢𝑒𝑢𝑒 - Queue of read operations
Server State
•𝑙𝑜𝑔 - Global log of write operations
•𝑡𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒 - Blocked cuckoo hash table
Figure 4: Talek Interfaces and Client/Server State. Global interest vectors are
described in §7.
Globally Configured
𝑙 constant Number of servers
𝑛 constant Number of messages stored on server
𝑏 constant Number of server-side buckets
𝑑 constant Depth of a bucket
𝑧 constant Size of a single message
𝑤 constant Per-user rate of writes
𝑟 constant Per-user rate of reads
Dynamically Measured
𝑚 variable Number of online clients
𝑇𝑇𝐿 𝑛 /(𝑚∗𝑤) Lifetime of a message on the server
𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑑 𝑛 /(𝑏∗𝑑) Load factor of the server hash table
Figure 5: Talek Variables. Globally configured parameters are fixed across all
clients and servers for an instance of Talek.

Talek: Private Group Messaging with Hidden Access Patterns ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA
5.1 Notation
For convenience, Figure 5 summarizes constants that parameterize
Talek’s design.
We write𝑃𝐾𝐸𝑛𝑐𝑝𝑘(𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡) for the encryption of 𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡 under𝑝𝑘,
and𝑃𝐾𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑠𝑘(𝑐𝑖𝑝ℎ𝑒𝑟) for the decryption of𝑐𝑖𝑝ℎ𝑒𝑟 under𝑠𝑘. Clients
also have access to an efficient symmetric encryption scheme.
We write𝐸𝑛𝑐𝑘(𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡) for the encryption of 𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡 with key 𝑘, and
𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑘(𝑐𝑖𝑝ℎ𝑒𝑟) for the decryption of𝑐𝑖𝑝ℎ𝑒𝑟 . Let𝑃𝑅𝐹(𝑘𝑒𝑦,𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡) de-
note a pseudorandom function family and𝑃𝑅𝑁𝐺(𝑠𝑒𝑒𝑑) denote a
cryptographically secure pseudorandom number generator. We use
| to denote tagged concatenation.
5.2 Log Handles
When a user creates a new log, Talek generates a secret log han-
dle,𝜏, containing a unique ID, 𝑖𝑑, encryption key,𝑘𝑒𝑛𝑐 , and two
seeds,𝑘𝑠1 and𝑘𝑠2. The log handle is shared between the writer and
readers of a log. All messages in the log are encrypted with𝑘𝑒𝑛𝑐 ,
e.g.,𝐸𝑛𝑐𝑘𝑒𝑛𝑐(𝑚𝑒𝑠𝑠𝑎𝑔𝑒). We further assign all messages in a log a se-
quence number,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜 . This sequence number is internal to Talek,
and does not preclude application-layer logic to track and order
messages. The two seed values are used in conjunction with a pseu-
dorandom function family,𝑃𝑅𝐹(𝑠𝑒𝑒𝑑,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜 )∈{ 0... (𝑏− 1)}, to
produce two unique and deterministic sequences of bucket locations
for writes. Similar to frequency hopping [38, 41] and constructions
in prior work [9, 10, 61, 87, 89], log handles allow writers and read-
ers to agree on a pseudorandom sequence of buckets without online
coordination. As discussed in §3, additional properties, like forward
secrecy, can be layered atop this basic construction.
5.3 Writing into a Cuckoo Hash Table
A key part of Talek’s design is that server-side state is arranged in
a blocked cuckoo hash table [36, 74], where each server’s storage is
organized into𝑏 buckets, each bucket storing𝑑 messages, each of
size𝑧. The value of𝑏 is chosen in conjunction with the PRF family,
such that the output of a PRF is uniformly distributed across the
buckets. The servers’ message capacity,𝑛, is chosen as a fraction
of the capacity of the cuckoo table, 𝑏·𝑑. This fraction is set to
ensure with high probability that a message will fit with minimal
rearranging of the cuckoo table [36]; hence insertion costs𝑂(1).
Because cuckoo hashing is history-dependent and PIR requires
consistent replicas across all servers, we must ensure that all writes
are inserted in the same order. We address this via serialized PIR
(§6). The algorithm for inserting into a blocked cuckoo hash table
is also randomized, so the servers agree on a random seed,𝑠𝑐𝑢𝑐𝑘𝑜𝑜 ,
which they use to ensure they all make the same (pseudo-)random
choices (if one or more servers make different choices, it affects
liveness, but not privacy).
When the Talek client library dequeues a message, 𝑀, with
sequence number𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜 from its internal write queue, it runs the
following RealWrite(𝜏,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜,𝑀 ) algorithm:
𝛽1 =𝑃𝑅𝐹(𝜏.𝑘𝑠1,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜)∈[ 0..𝑏− 1]
𝛽2 =𝑃𝑅𝐹(𝜏.𝑘𝑠2,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜)∈[ 0..𝑏− 1]
𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎 =𝐸𝑛𝑐𝜏.𝑘 𝑒𝑛𝑐(𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜|𝑀)
and sends the Write request,𝛽1|𝛽2|𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎 , to the servers. If the write
queue is empty, it instead runsFakeWrite(); i.e., it chooses𝛽1 and
𝛽2 at random in[0..𝑏− 1] and computes
𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎 =𝐸𝑛𝑐𝜏.𝑘 𝑒𝑛𝑐(𝑑𝑢𝑚𝑚𝑦𝑆𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜|0𝑧)
i.e., the encryption of a reserved sequence number and𝑧 zeroes.
Upon receiving the Write request, each server follows the stan-
dard cuckoo insertion algorithm:
(1) Delete the 𝑛-th oldest element.
(2) Insert 𝛽1|𝛽2|𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎 into either bucket𝛽1 or bucket𝛽2 if there is
spare capacity in either bucket.
(3) If both buckets are full, choose𝛽𝑒∈{ 𝛽1,𝛽 2}, using randomness
derived from𝑠𝑐𝑢𝑐𝑘𝑜𝑜 . Let𝛿𝑒 =𝛽1|𝛽2|𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎 .
(4) Repeat the following until all values are inserted
(a) Try to insert 𝛿𝑒 in𝛽𝑒 if the bucket has space.
(b) If not, randomly evict an entry in 𝛽𝑒 and insert𝛿𝑒 there.
(c) Set𝛿𝑒 to be the evicted value, and set 𝛽𝑒 to its alternate
bucket location.
5.4 Reading via PIR
When the Talek client library dequeues a log read at sequence
number𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜 from its internal read queue, it generates a Read
request using the following RealRead(𝜏,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜) algorithm. The
library performs a PIR read (following the protocol from §2) for
bucket𝑃𝑅𝐹(𝜏.𝑘𝑠1,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜) (i.e., the first possible cuckoo location).
The library attempts to decrypt every message in the bucket by
computing𝐷𝑒𝑐𝜏.𝑘 𝑒𝑛𝑐(𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎). If decryption succeeds and matches
𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜 ,𝑀 is returned to the application. If not, the next time aRead
request should be issued (as determined by the randomized reading
schedule), the library performs a PIR read for the second cuckoo
location, i.e.,𝑃𝑅𝐹(𝜏.𝑘𝑠2,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜).
If the internal read queue is empty, the library runsFakeRead(),
which issues a PIR read for an arbitrary bucket.
5.5 Control Logs
To facilitate control messages between users, we establish a con-
trol log between every pair of users who want to communicate.
We expect the log handle for the control log to be generated and
exchanged out of band when users exchange and verify public keys.
When a user wants to give log access to one of their friends, they
send the new handle via the control log shared with the intended
subscriber. Once all subscribers have access to the log handle, the
log writer can write messages once to be read by many subscribers,
instead of sending individual messages through each pairwise con-
trol log. Revocation occurs by creating a new handle and sharing it
with the non-revoked subscribers.
Control logs are also used by Talek to coordinate between users.
If a user has been offline for an extended period, she can ask the
writer for the most recent sequence number of a particular log. Sim-
ilarly, users can send retransmission requests for missed messages.
By definition, these requests leak information to the sender, but
the sender and receiver are assumed to trust each other. A client
also uses a control log to periodically send heartbeat messages to
itself. If these messages are lost, it serves as a hint to the client of a
denial-of-service attack.
5.6 Security Analysis
We formally prove the security of oblivious logging in §A.2. In-
formally, we assume that the writer trusts the consumers of its
log and prove security by reduction to cryptographic assumptions.
For Read, we rely on the security properties offered by PIR. PIR

ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA R. Cheng, W. Scott, E. Masserova, I. Zhang, V. Goyal, T. Anderson, A. Krishnamurthy, and B. Parno
queries that correspond to legitimate requests are indistinguishable
from a PIR query for a random item [ 27]. For Write, we rely on
the security properties of a PRF and our encryption algorithm. We
use a symmetric authenticated encryption algorithm for message
payloads. For any Write, the bucket locations are either generated
by a PRF using the log handle’s seed values,(𝑘𝑠1,𝑘𝑠2), or chosen at
random. An attacker who can distinguish between these two cases
immediately breaks the PRF’s security.
A malicious client has the ability to impact service availability
by deviating from the protocol and sending all its writes to a single
bucket. This attack (and other forms of denial-of-service) is limited
by servers enforcing the fixed Write rate𝑤 per client, the number
of Sybil clients the attacker can obtain, and the size of the database,
𝑛. The attack is further mitigated by the self-balancing nature of
cuckoo tables, where legitimate messages can be evicted to their
alternate locations, and the fact that the malicious client will not
know which buckets to target to disrupt a specific communication.
6 Serialized PIR
Similar to Riffle [60], to reduce the network costs of Read requests
for the client, we introduce a serialized version of IT-PIR, which
offloads work from clients to the servers. Unlike Riffle’s design,
ours avoids the need for the servers to keep per-client state.
At a high level, we choose an arbitrary server to be theleader, 𝒮0,
with the rest of the servers forming thefollower set,[𝒮1,..., 𝒮𝑙−1].
All Read and Write requests are directed to the leader. The leader
adds a global sequence number to each request (to ensure operations
are handled consistently across the servers) and forwards it to the
followers. Each Read request sent to the leader contains a PIR
query for each server, encrypted under its respective public key.
The followers each send their response back to the leader (rather
than the client). The response is carefully masked to preserve the
confidentiality of each server’s results while allowing the leader to
combine them on behalf of the client. Overall, the client’s outbound
request bandwidth is the same as before, but the inbound bandwidth
is only the size of a single response, rather than𝑙 responses.
To issue a serialized PIR request the client,𝒞 proceeds as follows.
(1) 𝒞 generates𝑏-bit PIR requests for each server,{𝑞0,...,𝑞 𝑙−1}
(𝑏 is the number of server hash buckets).
(2) 𝒞 generates a high-entropy random seed for each server,
{𝑝0,...,𝑝 𝑙−1}
(3) 𝒞 encrypts each server’s parameters with its respective public
key and generates a Read request,
𝑃𝐾𝐸𝑛𝑐𝑝𝑘0(𝑞0|𝑝0),...,𝑃𝐾𝐸𝑛𝑐 𝑝𝑘𝑙−1(𝑞𝑙−1|𝑝𝑙−1)
(4) 𝒞 sends this request to the leader, 𝒮0, who forwards it to the
followers along with a global sequence number.
(5) In parallel, each server, 𝒮𝑖, decrypts its respective PIR request
vector,𝑞𝑖 and computes its response,𝑅𝑖.
(6) Each server, 𝒮𝑖, also computes a random one-time mask,𝑃𝑖 =
𝑃𝑅𝑁𝐺(𝑝𝑖), from the seed parameter. This mask should have
the same size as𝑅𝑖.
(7) Each server, 𝒮𝑖, responds to 𝒮0 with𝑅𝑖
É𝑃𝑖.
(8) 𝒮0 combines the server responses and responds to 𝒞 with
𝑅0
É𝑃0
É...𝑅 𝑙−1
É𝑃𝑙−1
(9) 𝒞 restores the bucket of interest by XOR’ing this response with
each server’s mask,𝑃0
É... É𝑃𝑙−1
Security: With respect to privacy, this serialized variant of PIR is
provably equivalent to the traditional PIR scheme described in §2.
The proof is straightforward and sketched in §A.2. Hence, even if
the leader is malicious, it can only undermine liveness, not privacy.
Correctness and Liveness: The leader is only responsible for as-
signing a global sequence number, which does not affect security or
correctness. If the leader misrepresents the global sequence number
of a message, it could cause those replicas to become inconsistent.
Because any follower could also deny service by failing to respond
or deviating from the protocol, the leader is in no more privileged
a position to affect correctness or liveness of the system than any
other server in the system. Furthermore, serialized PIR is compati-
ble with the Byzantine-fault-tolerant varieties of PIR, which can be
used to improve liveness guarantees (§3.2).
7 Private Notifications
Regularly polling for new messages presents two problems. First,
because every user polls at the same rate, message latency increases
as a user subscribes to more logs. Second, it is hard to know which
log to poll at any given time.
Inspired by previous uses of Bloom filters for private membership
queries [21, 42], we introduce a private notification system that
allows users to determine when new messages have been published
to a log without revealing the list of logs to which they subscribe. By
detaching reads from notifications, clients can prioritize reads and
reduce how often they read buckets for logs without new messages.
The private notifications system works as follows:
(1) With every Write request, clients send an interest vector,
privately encoding the log handle and message sequence
number of this request.
(2) Servers maintain a global interest vector which encodes the
set of (log handle, message sequence number)-pairs for all
messages on the server.
(3) Clients periodically query the lead server for the global in-
terest vector.
Computing an Interest Vector During aRealWrite(𝜏,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜,𝑀 ),
the client creates an interest vector by inserting into an empty
Bloom filter that uses cryptographic hash functions:
𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑉𝑒𝑐 ←𝐵𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑚𝐹𝑖𝑙𝑡𝑒𝑟 ()
𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑉𝑒𝑐.𝑖𝑛𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑡 (𝜏.𝑖𝑑|𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜)
For a FakeWrite request, we insert a random value instead of
𝜏.𝑖𝑑|𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜 .
Maintaing a Global Interest Vector The global interest vector
is the union of the interest vectors written to the server. Servers peri-
odically sign their global interest vector and exchange signatures in
a multi-signature scheme [18], which allows the lead server to aggre-
gate all signatures into a single compact one. Upon aGetUpdates()
request from the client, the leader sends that signature, along with
the global interest vector, to the client for verification.
In practice, Talek employs compressed Bloom filters [70], and
both clients and servers maintain a window of Bloom filter deltas [70],
with each delta summarizing changes since the previous delta. By
discarding old deltas as new ones arrive, we avoid saturating the
global interest vector. Altogether, compressed Bloom filters with
delta compression result in updates of less than 10k bytes for our

Talek: Private Group Messaging with Hidden Access Patterns ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA
experiments with 1M messages stored on the server. We set clients
to fetch updates every 20 reads to further amortize this cost.
Security Analysis The security of private notifications relies
on the cryptographic hash functions (modeled as a random oracle)
used in the Bloom filter. As long as we use a log ID with sufficient
entropy, each interest vector provides a negligible advantage in the
indistinguishability security game. We give a formal proof in §A.2
(Game 4).
Private notifications are only used to prioritize reads on the
internal request queue. As such, it has no impact on Talek’s security
goals, since it has no visible effect on the network protocol interface.
It simply reorders the internal schedule of private requests.
8 Implementation
To evaluate Talek’s practicality, we have implemented a prototype
in approximately 6,200 lines of code; the source code is available
on GitHub.We have implemented two versions. The first, written in
Go, runs entirely on the CPU. The second offloads PIR operations to
the GPU using a kernel written in C on OpenCL, sharing memory
between the CPU implementation and the GPU. The prototype
uses SipHash [11] as the PRF, and NaCl’s box API [15] for public
and symmetric authenticated encryption. NaCl’s API relies on a
combination of Curve25519, Salsa20, and Poly1305.
9 Evaluation
Our evaluation addresses the following questions:
(1) 9.2 What is the cost of operations for clients and servers?
(2) 9.3 What is the cost of cover traffic?
(3) 9.4 How does system performance scale with more users?
(4) 9.5 How does Talek compare with previous work?
9.1 Setup
All experiments are conducted on Amazon EC2 P2 instances. These
virtual machines are allocated 4 cores on an Intel Xeon E5–2686v4
processor and 61 GB of RAM. They also include an NVIDIA K80
GPU with 2496 cores and 12GB of memory. We use 3 servers; one
is chosen as the leader and the others are followers. We allocated
two VMs to run user clients. Each user client issues periodic Read
and Write requests to the server.
While our experiments are run in a single data center, we expect
the performance to be similar for a more realistic cross-data center
setting. This would incur higher network latency, both to reach
the leader and in communicating between servers. However these
latencies will not impact the results here which focus on the main
bottleneck: the server-side computational cost of Talek.
To evaluate a realistic workload, we used the Ubuntu IRC logs
from 2016 [3], consisting of 1554790 messages over 32,834 unique
usernames. We generate a unique log in Talek for each writer in an
IRC channel. We varied the number of users,𝑚∈( 0, 32𝐾], and the
number of messages in the database,𝑛∈{ 10K, 32K, 100K, 500K, 1M}.
We fix the message size to 𝑧 = 1𝐾𝐵. In order to understand the
trade-off between bandwidth and end-to-end message latency, we
vary the global client read and write rates.
9.2 Cost of Operations
To understand Talek’s costs, we benchmark different components
of the system. Each value is the average of 200 runs. We vary the
number of messages on the server, 𝑛∈{ 10K, 100K, 1M}. We fix
Messages on Server (𝑛)
10K 100K 1M
Client CPU costs (𝜇s)
Generate new log handle 7753 7753 7753
Write 67 67 67
Issue PIR query 65 574 6888
Process PIR response 146 146 146
Server CPU costs (ms)
PIR Read: CPU 1.34 11.10 88.10
PIR Read: GPU 0.07 0.54 4.36
Write 0.02 0.02 0.02
Server storage costs (MB)
1 KB messages 24 241 2410
Network costs (KB)
GetUpdates 0.21 1.40 14.00
Read request 0.96 9.39 93.72
Read response 4.16 4.16 4.16
Write request 1.08 1.08 1.08
Figure 6: Cost of Individual Talek Operations. We vary the number,𝑛, of 1KB
messages stored on the server.
the bucket depth in the blocked cuckoo table to 4, such that clients
retrieve 4 messages at a time. This depth allows the cuckoo table to
support a load factor of 95%. The number of buckets is chosen to
hold𝑛 messages at the maximum load factor for the table. Figure 6
highlights the results.
In general, client costs are low due to IT-PIR. Each Write en-
crypts the message and uses a PRF to determine the bucket location.
The cost of generating a PIR query forRead increases with the data-
base size. Larger values of𝑛 translate to more buckets and larger
PIR request vectors.
For the server, we implement two versions of IT-PIR. Our CPU
implementation streams the database through the local CPU cache
while accumulating responses to service each batch of queries. Its
performance is limited by memory-bus throughput. The GPU im-
plementation accelerates performance by 1–2 orders of magnitude
by taking advantage of the inherent parallelism of PIR operations
across many GPU cores and the optimized on-device memory hier-
archy. Unless otherwise stated, henceforward, results are for our
GPU implementation. Batch coding or preprocessing [65] would
further improve this throughput bottleneck, by an estimated 3×, at
the cost of higher latency for writes to become visible to subsequent
reads. Writes incur negligible cost compared to the cost of reads.
Storage costs scale as expected, since our current implementation
stores all messages twice. Writes are applied to the working copy
stored in DRAM. Periodically, a snapshot of this state is copied into
the GPU. Read requests are batched and forwarded to the GPU. The
leader is free to reorder reads without violating serializability.
Network costs between client and server are minimal. Clients
must submit a read request containing a𝑏-bit vector for each server.
The size of Read responses and Write requests are within a small
factor of the message size. The global interest vector returned from
GetUpdates grows linearly with𝑛 in order to preserve a fixed false
positive rate of 0.02 and a𝑇𝑇𝐿 of 100 write intervals. This cost is
independent of message size. Updates trade off bandwidth with
false positive rate. The network costs per operation are identical
between servers, as both Read and Write operations simply relay
from the leader to followers.

ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA R. Cheng, W. Scott, E. Masserova, I. Zhang, V. Goyal, T. Anderson, A. Krishnamurthy, and B. Parno
30
60
90
120
150
 0  5  10  15  20
200
400
Client Daily Bandwidth (MB)
End-to-End Latency (sec)
Read Interval (sec)
Bandwidth
Latency
Figure 7: Impact of Read Interval. Average daily bandwidth per client and end-
to-end message latency as a function of read interval when replaying Ubuntu IRC
logs from 2016. When clients are configured to send messages once per second, each
client sends/receives∼ 148𝑀𝐵 per day to achieve end-to-end message latencies < 2
seconds. As we increase the interval of the read schedule, more read requests represent
real work, at the expense of end-to-end latency.
9.3 Cost of Cover Traffic
Because each Talek client must generate network traffic on a regular
schedule that is independent from the user’s real usage, developers
must choose a global schedule that is appropriate for their applica-
tion. Naturally, there is a trade-off between efficiency and message
latency. To quantify this tradeoff, we ran an experiment replaying
the Ubuntu IRC logs into Talek. We model clients as mobile devices
that only send requests when the device is online. Studies have
shown that users are engaged with their mobile devices only 8.6%
of the time [25]. We configured servers to store 524,000 messages,
such that servers can keep up with read requests if each client reads
one message per second. We then configure client write schedules
to maintain a message TTL of one day on the servers.
Figure 7 shows the effect of increasing client read intervals. When
clients are configured to read every second, average end-to-end
message latency is 1.71 seconds. The latency exceeds the read in-
terval, since many clients subscribe to multiple logs, so a burst of
writes from different writers may be bottlenecked by the read inter-
val. This latency comes at the cost of every client using 148MB of
bandwidth per day. For comparison, the installer for Adobe Reader
is∼200 MB, and the top ten most downloaded apps in 2018 on the
Google Play store [86] range from 13-66 MB. If daily bandwidth
usage is of concern, we can drastically reduce it by increasing the
read interval by a few seconds, while keeping latencies below 10
seconds. At higher read intervals, we reach optimal network usage,
where most read requests corresponds to real work. However, as
read requests are increasingly rate-limited, message latencies grow
quickly. In practice, application developers will need to choose read
intervals based on acceptable usability and network costs. This
design decision will depend on application workloads.
In future sections, we fix the read interval to 5 seconds, balancing
network and latency considerations. At this read interval, end-to-
end message latencies are 10.7 seconds, about half of read requests
are FakeRead requests, and each client will send about 49.4MB
per day over the network. For comparison, Snapchat, the #2 top
downloaded mobile app for both iOS and Android, consumes 14-
86MB per day per client [1]. Assuming the system supports 32,000
active users, servers will need a network connection of at least
18.3 MB/s.
100K
200K
300K
400K
500K
600K
5K 10K 15K 20K 25K 30K 35K
Throughput (messages/min)
Clients
n=32K
n=131K
n=524K
Figure 8: Talek’s Throughput. Throughput of the system when varying the num-
ber of real clients. Each client independently issues read and write requests every 5
seconds. Each line represents a different value for𝑛, the number of messages on the
server. Larger values of𝑛 require scanning a larger table, resulting in lower throughput.
9.4 Throughput
To understand Talek’s peak performance, we experimented with a
simulated messaging workload. Each client sends a message every
five seconds, and receives a message every five seconds. For each
data point, we spawn a number of clients and measure the leader’s
response rate over 5 minutes, giving the system enough time to
reach steady-state performance. Writing in Talek is cheap, so we
limit our workload such that each written message must be read
before being garbage collected. If writes were not throttled, servers
could easily accommodate higher write throughput, while reads
are bottlenecked by PIR computation.
Figure 8 shows the results for three values of𝑛∈{ 32K, 131K, 524K},
the number of messages stored on the server. For small numbers
of clients, the server achieves linear growth in throughput, demon-
strating that the PIR operations are keeping up with read requests.
The throughput is bottlenecked by the GPU’s PIR process. Smaller
values of𝑛 correspond to a smaller cuckoo table, resulting in cheaper
PIR operations and higher throughput. We only evaluate the system
with numbers of clients,𝑚, such that𝑚 < 𝑛, corresponding to a
message lifetime of at least one round of reads.
To further improve server performance, each Talek “server”
could internally consist of multiple machines, each handling a por-
tion of the PIR database. We defer this optimization to future work.
9.5 Comparison with Prior Work
Talek explores a new design point in the space of private messaging.
To understand the performance implications, we compare Talek’s
performance to representatives of other interesting design points
using their publicly available implementations. Pung [10] and its
refinement [9], which we dub Pung++, share a similar security
goal with Talek, but adopt a stronger threat model incompatible
with IT-PIR. Riposte [28] shares Talek’s threat model and employs
“reverse” IT-PIR, but offers anonymous broadcast (i.e., senders are
anonymous but no private read operation is supported) and targets
a weaker privacy goal (k-anonymity). Vuvuzela [89] shares Talek’s
threat model but targets another (weaker) privacy goal (differential
privacy). We describe additional protocol differences in §10.
In Figure 9, we summarize the asymptotic complexity of each
system. These asymptotics, however, hide vastly different constants.
Hence, Figure 10 shows the concrete single-threaded throughput
of each system. For each system, we sanity checked that our results
were consistent with those reported by the authors. For Pung, we
use a single server. For Talek, Vuvuzela, and Riposte, systems that

Talek: Private Group Messaging with Hidden Access Patterns ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA
Talek Pung++ Riposte Vuvuzela
Client CPU Read 𝑂(𝑙𝑛) 𝑂(√𝑛) ✗ 𝑂(𝑙)
Write 𝑂(1) 𝑂(1) 𝑂(√𝑛) 𝑂(𝑙)
Total Server CPU Read 𝑂(𝑙𝑛) 𝑂(𝑛) ✗ 𝑂( 𝑙 2+𝑙𝑛
𝑛2 )
Write 𝑂(𝑙) 𝑂(1) 𝑂(𝑙𝑛) 𝑂( 𝑙 2+𝑙𝑛
𝑛2 )
Total Server Storage 𝑂(𝑙𝑛) 𝑂(𝑛) 𝑂(𝑙𝑛) 𝑂(𝑙+𝑛)
Network Read request 𝑂(𝑙𝑛) 𝑂(√𝑛) ✗ 𝑂(1)
Read response 𝑂(𝑑) 𝑂(1) ✗ 𝑂(1)
Write 𝑂(1) 𝑂(1) 𝑂(𝑙√𝑛) 𝑂(1)
Figure 9: Asymptotic Comparison. We compare costs between related work that
uses an anytrust or stronger threat model. Parameters are the number of servers,𝑙, the
number𝑛 of client messages in the system and, for Talek, the number of messages in a
bucket𝑑. Riposte does not specify a read mechanism. Client CPU is for one read/write
request. Total server CPU is the total cost of𝑙 servers (or for Pung++, a single server)
for one read or write request. Network costs are for read/write requests between the
client and the server(s). Pung++’s costs do not include constructing and sending an
oracle that maps message indices to locations within a bucket (§10), while Talek’s
costs do not include private notifications, as both are orthogonal to the main design.
rely on an anytrust threat model, we use a common security param-
eter of 3 servers. In these systems, larger numbers of servers only
improves security, not performance. Write performance is similar
between Talek, Pung++, and Vuvuzela, which all dominate Riposte
due to its𝑂(√𝑛) cost. Read performance, however, demonstrates
further tradeoffs. Pung++’s throughput lags Talek’s CPU imple-
mentation by up to two orders of magnitude, which in turn lags
Vuvuzela by 1-3 orders of magnitude. The Riposte implementation
does not include an implementation for reads due to its focus on
broadcast applications. Pung++ reads are more expensive predom-
inantly due to its use of homomorphic encryption for C-PIR (to
support a stronger threat model) and differences in its read protocol.
Vuvuzela’s weaker security goal allows it to scale better than Talek.
Talek’s GPU implementation improves read performance by∼ 20×.
10 Related Work
We provide an overview of related systems that hide communication
patterns. Unger et al. provide a more detailed survey [ 88]. For
convenience, Figure 11 summarizes the discussion.
PIR-based systems Theoretical work proves that the collective
work required by the servers to answer a client’s request scales at
least linearly with the size of the database [12]. While it is possible
to circumvent this lower bound using database preprocessing [12]
or an offline/online model [30], we cannot take advantage of such
approaches since our database changes constantly.
 0.01
 0.1
 1
 10
 100
 1000
 10000
 100000
Reads(n=10K)Reads(n=100K)Reads(n=1M)Writes(n=10K)Writes(n=100K)Writes(n=1M)
Throughput (requests/s)
Talek(GPU)
Talek(CPU)
Vuvuzela
Pung++
Riposte
Figure 10: Performance Comparison of Read and Write handlers of various
systems. Because Riposte is a broadcast protocol, it does not include a read operation.
Note the log scale on the y-axis.
System Security Threat Technique Application
Goal Model
Talek indisting. ≥ 1 IT-PIR group msg.
Pynchon [79] k-anon. ≥ 1 mixnet/IT-PIR email
Riffle [60] k-anon. ≥ 1 mixnet/IT-PIR file-sharing
Riposte [28] k-anon. ≥ 1 IT-PIR broadcast
Dissent [29] k-anon. ≥ 1 DC-net broadcast
Atom [58] k-anon. ≥𝑓 mixnet broadcast
Vuvuzela [89] diff. privacy ≥ 1 mixnet 1–1 msg.
Stadium [87] diff. privacy ≥𝑓 mixnet 1–1 msg.
Karaoke [61] diff. privacy ≥𝑓 mixnet 1–1 msg.
Pung [9, 10] indisting. 0 C-PIR group msg.
ORAM [82–84] indisting. 0 ORAM storage
DP5 [19] indisting. ≥ 1 IT-PIR chat presence
Popcorn [50] indisting. ≥ 1 C-PIR/IT-PIR video stream
XRD [59] indisting. ≥𝑓 mixnet 1–1 msg.
Figure 11: Comparison of Privacy Systems. Indistinguishability-based security
goals offer the strongest level of privacy. Systems based on k-anonymity and differential
privacy leak information over time [33, 56, 67]. The threat model column denotes the
number of servers that must be honest for security properties to hold; systems marked
with𝑓 require a fraction (e.g., 20-80%) of servers to be honest.
On the systems side, some work in this space leverages assump-
tions about specific application workloads to make PIR practical in
a particular setting. For example, DP5 [19] is a private chat pres-
ence system. The security of the protocol depends on chat presence
workloads and does not generalize to group messaging. Similarly,
Popcorn [50] uses both C-PIR and IT-PIR to construct a private
read-only video streaming system over a static video database.
Some systems support general-purpose anonymous writing, but
do not support private reading. Ostrovsky and Shoup propose pri-
vate information storage (PIS) [73], which allows a client to write
to a row in a database of𝑛 rows without revealing which row was
updated. Writing via PIS is expensive, incurring poly-logarithmic
communication, compared with 𝑂(1) for Talek. Riposte [28] ex-
pands on this work to support a scalable broadcast system. Riposte
and Talek share a similar anytrust threat model, but Riposte has
a weaker security goal based on k-anonymity within a round of
communication. Riposte does not promise privacy over multiple
rounds of communication, and writes require 𝑂(√𝑛) messages.
Other systems, like Talek, aim for general-purpose private messag-
ing, and hence support a wider range of applications. For instance,
Pynchon Gate [79] is system where emails are sent to servers via
mixnets. Emails are dumped daily to distributor servers, where
clients use IT-PIR to privately retrieve them. While PIR hides which
messages clients read, the email server stores the communication
patterns between email addresses. Riffle [60] uses mixnets to send
messages and IT-PIR to retrieve them. Riffle provides k-anonymity;
in each round, the adversary learns that a message originated from
1 of𝑘 users. As discussed in §3, in practice, k-anonymity typically
provides weaker privacy than access sequences indistinguishability.
Pung [10] (and its refinement [ 9]) supports a key-value store
based on C-PIR with a security goal of UO-ER, which is similar to
Talek’s access sequence indistinguishability (see §3). Pung targets
a stronger threat model than Talek; Pung assumes all servers are
untrusted. Hence, Pung only requires one server to provide func-
tionality compared with𝑙 for Talek. Pung’s stronger threat model
comes at the cost of performance. Pung uses an implementation
of C-PIR for reads called SealPIR [7, 9], which leverages the SEAL
homomorphic encryption library [80] based on the Fan-Vercauteren

ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA R. Cheng, W. Scott, E. Masserova, I. Zhang, V. Goyal, T. Anderson, A. Krishnamurthy, and B. Parno
fully-homomorphic encryption (FHE) system [43]. Thus, Pung in-
curs orders of magnitude higher computational and network costs,
compared with Talek.
Additionally, Pung uses an interactive binary search algorithm
for retrieval, requiring𝑂(𝑙𝑜𝑔(𝑛)) round trips between client and
server, compared to the𝑂(1) cuckoo table lookup in Talek. Thus,
to retrieve a 1KB message from a database size of𝑛 = 32K messages,
Pung requires > 36𝑀𝐵 of data. Pung++ reduces this overhead
by leveraging a more efficient C-PIR protocol, probabilistic batch
coding, and reverse cuckoo hashing. The latter places each element
into all candidate buckets, and requires each client to have an oracle
to tell it which index within a bucket contains the message it wants
to retrieve. The authors suggest instantiating the oracle by having
the client retrieve a Bloom filter that encodes the index of every
message. Hence, the client must download𝑂(𝑛) data each time it
wants to discover the location of new messages. Hence, Pung++ still
requires more than > 1𝑀𝐵 of data for the same workload, while
Talek makes 2 requests and transfers < 12𝐾𝐵 (10× less).
Mixnet-based Systems Chaum mixnets [ 23, 24, 49, 54] and
verifiable cryptographic shuffles [20, 44, 71] are a way to obfuscate
the source of a message. As with PIR, some mixnet-based systems
provide anonymous broadcasting, rather than private messaging.
For example, Atom [58] implements anonymous broadcast by divid-
ing the servers into multiple groups and then repeatedly shuffling
a batch of ciphertexts within each group and forwarding parts of
the batch to neighboring groups. Atom assumes that some fraction
of servers are honest. In particular, Atom’s security relies on each
group having at least one honest server.
Mixnets have been applied to scalable private messaging [32],
but require messages from honest users in every round to form an
anonymity set. When a mixnet is used to access an encrypted data-
base, unlinkability can be difficult to guarantee when the database is
untrusted. Network-level onion routing systems [37, 55, 77] can also
be used to access an encrypted database with similar limitations.
Using differential privacy analysis, Vuvuzela [89], Stadium [87],
and Karaoke [61] formalize the amount of noise that honest shufflers
would need to inject to bound information leakage at the database.
These systems have a weaker security goal than Talek – which
provides indistinguishability even under an active adversary, but
they offer substantially better performance than Talek. Vuvuzela
scales to millions of users with a peak throughput of nearly 4M mes-
sages/min using the same number of servers as Talek. Stadium [87]
achieves Vuvuzela’s security goal with even better performance,
but it weakens the threat model to assume that some fraction (the
authors suggest 50-75%) of servers behave honestly. Karaoke [61]
extends Vuvuzela with an efficient noise verification technique and
a security goal of optimistic indistinguishability, where no informa-
tion is leaked under a passive adversary, but the system falls back
to differential privacy under an active attack. Similar to Stadium,
Karaoke assumes some fraction (the authors suggest 60-80%) of
servers behave honestly.
Like Stadium and Karaoke, XRD [59] is a mix-net system that
assumes a fraction of servers behave honestly and requires sim-
ilarly large fraction to achieve good performance. In contrast to
Stadium and Karaoke, XRD offers cryptographic privacy similar to
the guarantees provided by Talek.
Stadium, Karaoke, and XRD include support for horizontal scal-
ing (linear scaling for Stadium and Karaoke, square root scaling for
XRD), so that adding more servers improves the system’s through-
put. As discussed in §9.4, Talek is compatible with instantiating
each “server” via multiple machines to provide better throughput.
This provides a subtly different form of scaling, however. Stadium,
Karaoke, and XRD can increase performance by increasing the
number of participating organizations, while Talek increases the
number of machines held by the participating organizations. The
difference stems from Talek’s anytrust threat model.
DC-nets DC-net systems [22, 48], like Herbivore [81] and Dis-
sent [29, 31, 90], are a method for anonymously broadcasting mes-
sages to a group using information-theoretic techniques. For each
message, all clients must broadcast random bits to every other
client. DC-nets enable effective broadcast messaging, but they are
not optimal for group messaging due to high network costs.
Oblivious RAM (ORAM) ORAM [46, 47, 72] allows a single
trusted client to access untrusted storage without revealing access
patterns, even to a strong adversary who controls the storage. High
network costs of reads, Ω(log𝑛), and constant data reshuffling
make ORAM costly for systems with many users sharing data.
11 Conclusion
We have explored a new point in the design space of private group
messaging: a very strong security guarantee based on access se-
quence indistinguishability coupled with an only slightly weak-
ened anytrust threat model. The result is a new built system, Talek,
which incorporates a careful series of design decisions and new
optimizations, including IT-PIR based on blocked cuckoo hashing,
serialized PIR, private notifications, and GPU-based acceleration.
Together, these demonstrate that this design point supports strong
performance for realistic workloads.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported by Google, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation,
and the CONIX Research Center, one of six centers in JUMP, a
Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC) program sponsored by
DARPA. This work was also supported by DARPA and NIWC under
contract N66001-15-C-4065. The U.S. Government is authorized to
reproduce and distribute reprints for Governmental purposes not
withstanding any copyright notation thereon. The views, opinions,
and/or findings expressed are those of the author(s) and should not
be interpreted as representing the official views or policies of the
Department of Defense or the U.S. Government.

Talek: Private Group Messaging with Hidden Access Patterns ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA
References
[1] 2015. New Data Shows Mobile Data Consumption Skyrocketing Following
Snapchat Discover’s Launch. techcrunch.com.
[2] 2016. Pond. github.com/agl/pond.
[3] 2016. Ubuntu IRC Logs. https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/.
[4] 2017. Ricochet: Anonymous peer-to-peer instant messaging.
github.com/ricochet-im/ricochet.
[5] 2018. Keybase. https://keybase.io/.
[6] 2018. Signal Privacy Policy. whispersystems.org.
[7] Carlos Aguilar-Melchor, Joris Barrier, Laurent Fousse, and Marc-Olivier Killijian.
2016. XPIR: Private information retrieval for everyone. Privacy Enhancing
Technologies (2016).
[8] Nikolaos Alexopoulos, Aggelos Kiayias, Riivo Talviste, and Thomas Zacharias.
2017. MCMix: Anonymous messaging via secure multiparty computation. In
26th USENIX Security Symposium . 1217–1234.
[9] Sebastian Angel, Hao Chen, Kim Laine, and Srinath Setty. 2018. PIR with com-
pressed queries and amortized query processing. In Symposium on Security and
Privacy. IEEE.
[10] Sebastian Angel and Srinath Setty. 2016. Unobservable Communication over
Fully Untrusted Infrastructure. In Operating Systems Design and Implementation .
USENIX.
[11] Jean-Philippe Aumasson and Daniel J Bernstein. 2012. SipHash: a fast short-input
PRF. In International Conference on Cryptology in India . Springer, 489–508.
[12] Amos Beimel, Yuval Ishai, and Tal Malkin. 2000. Reducing the servers computa-
tion in private information retrieval: PIR with preprocessing. In Proceedings of
the Annual International Cryptology Conference .
[13] Mihir Bellare, Ran Canetti, and Hugo Krawczyk. 1996. Keying hash functions for
message authentication. In Annual International Cryptology Conference. Springer.
[14] Mihir Bellare, Anand Desai, David Pointcheval, and Phillip Rogaway. 1998. Rela-
tions among notions of security for public-key encryption schemes. In Annual
International Cryptology Conference. Springer, 26–45.
[15] Daniel J Bernstein, Tanja Lange, and Peter Schwabe. 2012. The security impact
of a new cryptographic library. In International Conference on Cryptology and
Information Security in Latin America . Springer, 159–176.
[16] Alexandra Boldyreva, Vipul Goyal, and Virendra Kumar. 2008. Identity-based
encryption with efficient revocation. In Proceedings of the 15th ACM conference
on Computer and communications security . ACM, 417–426.
[17] Dan Boneh and Matt Franklin. 2001. Identity-based encryption from the Weil
pairing. In Annual International Cryptology Conference. Springer, 213–229.
[18] Dan Boneh, Craig Gentry, Ben Lynn, and Hovav Shacham. 2003. Aggregate and
verifiably encrypted signatures from bilinear maps. In International Conference
on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques . Springer, 416–432.
[19] Nikita Borisov, George Danezis, and Ian Goldberg. 2015. DP5: A Private Presence
Service. Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies 2015, 2 (2015), 4–24.
[20] Justin Brickell and Vitaly Shmatikov. 2006. Efficient Anonymity-Preserving Data
Collection. In International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining .
ACM.
[21] Yan-Cheng Chang and Michael Mitzenmacher. 2005. Privacy preserving key-
word searches on remote encrypted data. In International Conference on Applied
Cryptography and Network Security . Springer, 442–455.
[22] David Chaum. 1988. The Dining Cryptographers Problem: Unconditional Sender
and Recipient Untraceability. Journal of Cryptology 1, 1 (1988), 65–75.
[23] David Chaum, Farid Javani, Aniket Kate, Anna Krasnova, Joeri de Ruiter, and
Alan T Sherman. 2017. cMix: Anonymization by High-Performance Scalable
Mixing. In International Conference on Applied Cryptography and Network Security.
Springer, 557–578.
[24] David L Chaum. 1981. Untraceable Electronic Mail, Return Addresses, and Digital
Pseudonyms. Commun. ACM 24, 2 (1981), 84–90.
[25] Xiaomeng Chen, Ning Ding, Abhilash Jindal, Y Charlie Hu, Maruti Gupta, and
Rath Vannithamby. 2015. Smartphone energy drain in the wild: Analysis and
implications. ACM SIGMETRICS Performance Evaluation Review 43, 1 (2015),
151–164.
[26] Benny Chor, Oded Goldreich, Eyal Kushilevitz, and Madhu Sudan. 1995. Private
information retrieval. In Proceedings of IEEE 36th Annual Foundations of Computer
Science. IEEE, 41–50.
[27] Benny Chor, Eyal Kushilevitz, Oded Goldreich, and Madhu Sudan. 1998. Private
Information Retrieval. Journal of the ACM (JACM) 45, 6 (1998), 965–981.
[28] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Dan Boneh, and David Mazières. 2015. Riposte: An
Anonymous Messaging System Handling Millions of Users. In Symposium on
Security and Privacy. IEEE.
[29] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs and Bryan Ford. 2010. Dissent: Accountable Anonymous
Group Messaging. In Proceedings of Computer and Communications Security .
ACM.
[30] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs and Dmitry Kogan. 2019. Private Information Retrieval
with Sublinear Online Time. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/1075.
[31] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, David Isaac Wolinsky, and Bryan Ford. 2013. Proactively
Accountable Anonymous Messaging in Verdict. In USENIX Security.
[32] George Danezis, Roger Dingledine, and Nick Mathewson. 2003. Mixminion:
Design of a Type III Anonymous Remailer Protocol. In Symposium on Security
and Privacy. IEEE.
[33] George Danezis and Andrei Serjantov. 2004. Statistical Disclosure or Intersection
Attacks on Anonymity Systems. InInternational Workshop on Information Hiding.
[34] Daniel Demmler, Peter Rindal, Mike Rosulek, and Ni Trieu. 2018. PIR-PSI: Scaling
Private Contact Discovery. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive 2018 (2018), 579.
https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/579
[35] Casey Devet, Ian Goldberg, and Nadia Heninger. 2012. Optimally Robust Private
Information Retrieval. In USENIX Security.
[36] Martin Dietzfelbinger and Christoph Weidling. 2007. Balanced Allocation and
Dictionaries with Tightly Packed Constant Size Bins. Theoretical Computer
Science 380, 1 (2007), 47–68.
[37] Roger Dingledine, Nick Mathewson, and Paul Syverson. 2004. Tor: The Second-
Generation Onion Router. Technical Report. DTIC Document.
[38] Colin Dixon, Thomas E Anderson, and Arvind Krishnamurthy. 2008. Phalanx:
Withstanding Multimillion-Node Botnets. In USENIX Symposium on Networked
Systems Design and Implementation .
[39] Cynthia Dwork. 2006. Differential Privacy. In Automata, languages and program-
ming. 1–12.
[40] Cynthia Dwork. 2008. Differential Privacy: A Survey of Results. In Theory and
applications of models of computation . 1–19.
[41] Anthony Ephremides, Jeffrey E Wieselthier, and Dennis J Baker. 1987. A Design
Concept for Reliable Mobile Radio Networks with Frequency Hopping Signaling.
Proc. IEEE 75, 1 (1987), 56–73.
[42] Úlfar Erlingsson, Vasyl Pihur, and Aleksandra Korolova. 2014. RAPPOR: Ran-
domized Aggregatable Privacy-Preserving Ordinal Response. In Proceedings of
the 2014 ACM SIGSAC conference on computer and communications security . ACM,
1054–1067.
[43] Junfeng Fan and Frederik Vercauteren. 2012. Somewhat Practical Fully Ho-
momorphic Encryption. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2012/144. https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2012/144.
[44] Jun Furukawa and Kazue Sako. 2001. An Efficient Scheme for Proving a Shuffle.
In Advances in Cryptology (CRYPTO 2001) . 368–387.
[45] Ian Goldberg. 2007. Improving the Robustness of Private Information Retrieval.
In Security and Privacy (SP), 2007 IEEE Symposium on . IEEE, 131–148.
[46] Oded Goldreich. 1987. Towards a Theory of Software Protection and Simulation
by Oblivious RAMs. In Symposium on Theory of Computing . ACM.
[47] Oded Goldreich and Rafail Ostrovsky. 1996. Software Protection and Simulation
on Oblivious RAMs. Journal of the ACM (JACM) 43, 3 (1996), 431–473.
[48] Philippe Golle and Ari Juels. 2004. Dining Cryptographers Revisited. In Advances
in Cryptology (Eurocrypt 2004) . 456–473.
[49] Ceki Gülcü and Gene Tsudik. 1996. Mixing E-mail with Babel. In Network and
Distributed System Security. ISOC.
[50] Trinabh Gupta, Natacha Crooks, Whitney Mulhern, Srinath TV Setty, Lorenzo
Alvisi, and Michael Walfish. 2016. Scalable and Private Media Consumption
with Popcorn. In Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementa-
tion. USENIX. https://www.usenix.org/conference/nsdi16/technical-sessions/
presentation/gupta-trinabh
[51] Alejandro Hevia and Daniele Micciancio. 2008. An indistinguishability-based
characterization of anonymous channels. In Privacy Enhancing Technologies
Symposium. Springer, 24–43.
[52] Jason I Hong and James A Landay. 2004. An Architecture for Privacy-Sensitive
Ubiquitous Computing. In Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on
Mobile Systems, Applications, and Services . ACM, 177–189.
[53] Mohammad Saiful Islam, Mehmet Kuzu, and Murat Kantarcioglu. 2012. Access
Pattern disclosure on Searchable Encryption: Ramification, Attack and Mitigation..
In NDSS, Vol. 20. 12.
[54] Anja Jerichow, Jan Muller, Andreas Pfitzmann, Birgit Pfitzmann, and Michael
Waidner. 1998. Real-time Mixes: A Bandwidth-Efficient Anonymity Protocol.
Selected Areas in Communications, IEEE Journal on 16, 4 (1998), 495–509.
[55] Nicholas Jones, Matvey Arye, Jacopo Cesareo, and Michael J Freedman. 2011.
Hiding Amongst the Clouds: A Proposal for Cloud-based Onion Routing. In
FOCI.
[56] Dogan Kedogan, Dakshi Agrawal, and Stefan Penz. 2002. Limits of Anonymity
in Open Environments. In International Workshop on Information Hiding . 53–69.
[57] Eyal Kushilevitz and Rafail Ostrovsky. 1997. Replication is not needed: Single
database, computationally-private information retrieval. In Proceedings of the
38th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science . IEEE, 364–373.
[58] Albert Kwon, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Srinivas Devadas, and Bryan Ford. 2017.
Atom: Horizontally scaling strong anonymity. In Proceedings of the 26th Sympo-
sium on Operating Systems Principles . ACM, 406–422.
[59] Albert Kwon, David Lu, and Srinivas Devadas. 2020. XRD: Scalable Messaging
System with Cryptographic Privacy. In To appear in Proceedings of the USENIX
Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI) .
[60] Young Hyun Kwon, David Lazar, Srinivas Devadas, and Bryan Ford. 2016. Riffle:
An Efficient Communication System with Strong Anonymity. In Proceedings on

ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA R. Cheng, W. Scott, E. Masserova, I. Zhang, V. Goyal, T. Anderson, A. Krishnamurthy, and B. Parno
Privacy Enhancing Technologies.
[61] David Lazar, Yossi Gilad, and Nickolai Zeldovich. 2018. Karaoke: Distributed
private messaging immune to passive traffic analysis. In Proceedings of USENIX
Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI) . 711–725.
[62] David Lazar and Nickolai Zeldovich. 2016. Alpenhorn: Bootstrapping secure
communication without leaking metadata. In Operating Systems Design and
Implementation. USENIX.
[63] Sarah Jamie Lewis. 2018. Cwtch: Privacy Preserving Infrastructure for Asynchro-
nous, Decentralized, Multi-Party and Metadata Resistant Applications. https:
//cwtch.im/.
[64] Jinyuan Li, Maxwell Krohn, David Mazieres, and Dennis Shasha. 2004. SUNDR:
Secure Untrusted Data Repository. In USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems
Design and Implementation.
[65] Wouter Lueks and Ian Goldberg. 2015. Sublinear Scaling for Multi-Client Private
Information Retrieval. In International Conference on Financial Cryptography and
Data Security. 168–186.
[66] Prince Mahajan, Srinath Setty, Sangmin Lee, Allen Clement, Lorenzo Alvisi, Mike
Dahlin, and Michael Walfish. 2011. Depot: Cloud Storage with Minimal Trust.
ACM Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS) 29, 4 (2011), 12.
[67] Nick Mathewson and Roger Dingledine. 2004. Practical Traffic Analysis: Extend-
ing and Resisting Statistical Disclosure. In Privacy Enhancing Technologies.
[68] Susan E McGregor, Polina Charters, Tobin Holliday, and Franziska Roesner.
2015. Investigating the Computer Security Practices and Needs of Journalists.. In
USENIX Security.
[69] Susan E McGregor, Franziska Roesner, and Kelly Caine. 2016. Individual versus
Organizational Computer Security and Privacy Concerns in Journalism. Privacy
Enhancing Technologies (2016).
[70] Michael Mitzenmacher. 2002. Compressed bloom filters. Transactions on Net-
working (2002).
[71] C Andrew Neff. 2003. Verifiable Mixing (Shuffling) of ElGamal Pairs. http:
//www.votehere.net/vhti/documentation/egshuf.pdf. VHTi Technical Document,
VoteHere, Inc (2003).
[72] Rafail Ostrovsky. 1990. Efficient Computation on Oblivious RAMs. In Symposium
on Theory of Computing . ACM.
[73] Rafail Ostrovsky and Victor Shoup. 1997. Private Information Storage. In Sympo-
sium on Theory of Computing . ACM. https://doi.org/10.1145/258533.258606
[74] Rasmus Pagh and Flemming Friche Rodler. 2001. Cuckoo Hashing. In European
Symposium on Algorithms. 121–133.
[75] Andreas Pfitzmann and Marit Hansen. 2010. A terminology for talking about
privacy by data minimization: Anonymity, unlinkability, undetectability, un-
observability, pseudonymity, and identity management (Version 0.34). https:
//dud.inf.tu-dresden.de/literatur/Anon_Terminology_v0.34.pdf.
[76] Ania M Piotrowska, Jamie Hayes, Tariq Elahi, Sebastian Meiser, and George
Danezis. 2017. The Loopix anonymity system. In26th USENIX Security Symposium.
1199–1216.
[77] Michael G Reed, Paul F Syverson, and David M Goldschlag. 1998. Anonymous
Connections and Onion Routing. Selected Areas in Communications (1998).
[78] Ronald L Rivest, Adi Shamir, and Leonard Adleman. 1978. A method for obtaining
digital signatures and public-key cryptosystems. Commun. ACM 21, 2 (1978).
[79] Len Sassaman, Bram Cohen, and Nick Mathewson. 2005. The Pynchon Gate: A
Secure Method of Pseudonymous Mail Retrieval. In Workshop on Privacy in the
Electronic Society. ACM.
[80] SEAL 2018. Simple Encrypted Arithmetic Library (release 3.1.0). https://github.
com/Microsoft/SEAL. Microsoft Research, Redmond, WA.
[81] Emin Gün Sirer, Sharad Goel, Mark Robson, and Do ˇgan Engin. 2004. Eluding
Carnivores: File Sharing with Strong Anonymity. In Workshop on ACM SIGOPS
European Workshop. ACM, 19.
[82] Emil Stefanov and Elaine Shi. 2013. Multi-Cloud Oblivious Storage. In SIGSAC
conference on Computer & Communications security . ACM.
[83] Emil Stefanov and Elaine Shi. 2013. ObliviStore: High Performance Oblivious
Cloud Storage. In Security and Privacy. IEEE.
[84] Emil Stefanov, Marten Van Dijk, Elaine Shi, Christopher Fletcher, Ling Ren,
Xiangyao Yu, and Srinivas Devadas. 2013. Path ORAM: an Extremely Simple
Oblivious RAM Protocol. In SIGSAC Conference on Computer & Communications
Security. ACM.
[85] Latanya Sweeney. 2002. k-anonymity: A Model for Protecting Privacy. Inter-
national Journal of Uncertainty, Fuzziness and Knowledge-Based Systems 10, 05
(2002), 557–570.
[86] Anna Tobin. 2018. These Were The Most Downloaded And Profitable Games and
Apps Of 2018. https://www.forbes.com/sites/annatobin/2018/12/21/these-were-
the-most-downloaded-and-profitable-games-and-apps-of-2018/.
[87] Nirvan Tyagi, Yossi Gilad, Derek Leung, Matei Zaharia, and Nickolai Zeldovich.
2017. Stadium: A Distributed Metadata-Private Messaging System. In Proceedings
of the 26th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles . ACM, 423–440.
[88] Nik Unger, Sergej Dechand, Joseph Bonneau, Sascha Fahl, Henning Perl, Ian
Goldberg, and Matthew Smith. 2015. SoK: Secure Messaging. In Security and
Privacy. IEEE.
[89] Jelle Van Den Hooff, David Lazar, Matei Zaharia, and Nickolai Zeldovich. 2015.
Vuvuzela: Scalable Private Messaging Resistant to Traffic Analysis. InSymposium
on Operating Systems Principles . ACM.
[90] David Isaac Wolinsky, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Bryan Ford, and Aaron Johnson.
2012. Dissent in Numbers: Making Strong Anonymity Scale. InOperating Systems
Design and Implementation. USENIX.
[91] David Isaac Wolinsky, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Bryan Ford, and Aaron Johnson.
2012. Scalable anonymous group communication in the anytrust model. In
Proceedings of the European Workshop on System Security (EuroSec) .
A Security Proofs
A.1 Building Blocks
We provide formal definitions of the cryptographic building blocks
that we use in the security proof of our construction.
We define a Private Information Retrieval scheme as specified by
Chor et al. [26], adapted to allow up to𝑡 servers to collude (whereas
they assume no collusion). The scheme allows a user, on a desired
index𝑖 and a random input𝑟 of length𝑙𝑟𝑛𝑑 , to produce𝑘 queries
of length𝑙𝑞 (one for each server). The servers respond according
to the strategies𝐴1,...,𝐴 𝑘 with replies of length𝑙𝑎. The user then
reconstructs the desired bit of the database based on these replies.
Definition A.1. Private Information Retrieval – One-Round Schemes.
A𝑘-server Private Information Retrieval (PIR) scheme for a database
of length𝑛 consists of:
• 𝑘 query functions,𝑄1,...,𝑄 𝑘 :[𝑛]×{ 0, 1}𝑙𝑟𝑛𝑑→{ 0, 1}𝑙𝑞
• 𝑘 answer functions,𝐴1,...,𝐴 𝑘 :{0, 1}𝑛×{0, 1}𝑙𝑞→{ 0, 1}𝑙𝑎
• a reconstruction function,𝑅 :[𝑛]×{ 0, 1}𝑙𝑟𝑛𝑑×({ 0, 1}𝑙𝑎)𝑘→
{0, 1}
These functions should satisfy
Correctness: For every𝑥∈{ 0, 1}𝑛,𝑖∈[ 𝑛], and𝑟∈{ 0, 1}𝑙𝑟𝑛𝑑
𝑅(𝑖,𝑟,𝐴 1(𝑥,𝑄 1(𝑖,𝑟)),...,𝐴 𝑘(𝑥,𝑄𝑘(𝑖,𝑟))) =𝑥𝑖
𝑡-Privacy: For every 𝑖,𝑗 ∈ [𝑛],(𝑞1,...,𝑞 𝑡) ∈ ({0, 1}𝑙𝑞)𝑡 and
{𝑠1,...,𝑠 𝑡}⊂{ 1,...,𝑘 }
Pr((𝑄𝑠1(𝑖,𝑟),...,𝑄 𝑠𝑡(𝑖,𝑟)) =(𝑞1,...,𝑞 𝑡)) =
Pr((𝑄𝑠1(𝑗,𝑟),...,𝑄 𝑠𝑡(𝑗,𝑟)) =(𝑞1,...,𝑞 𝑡))
where the probabilities are taken over a uniformly chosen 𝑟 ∈
{0, 1}𝑙𝑟𝑛𝑑 .
Note that while this definition is for a one-round PIR scheme, it
can be extended to multiple rounds where the queries in each round
are allowed to depend on answers received in previous rounds.
We use the following standard definitions of a pseudorandom
function and the IND-CCA security of the encryption scheme:
Definition A.2. Pseudorandom function
A function𝐹 :{0, 1}𝑛×{ 0, 1}𝑚1→{ 0, 1}𝑚2 is called a pseudo-
random function (PRF) if it satisfies the following:
• For all𝑠∈{ 0, 1}𝑛 and all𝑥∈{ 0, 1}𝑚1,𝐹(𝑠,𝑥) can be com-
puted in polynomial time.
• Any PPT adversary 𝒜 is successful in the following game
with probability at most 1
2+𝑛𝑒𝑔𝑙(𝑛), where𝑛𝑒𝑔𝑙(·) is a neg-
ligible function:
– The challenger chooses𝑠←{ 0, 1}𝑛 and a bit𝑏←{ 0, 1}
at random.
– For𝑖 = 1,...,𝑞 , where𝑞 is polynomial in 𝑛,𝐷 chooses
𝑥𝑖∈{ 0, 1}𝑚1 and sends it to the challenger.

Talek: Private Group Messaging with Hidden Access Patterns ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA
– If𝑏 = 0, the challenger replies with 𝐹(𝑠,𝑥𝑖). Otherwise,
if𝑥𝑖 has not been queried before, the challenger picks
𝑦𝑖∈{ 0, 1}𝑚2 uniformly at random and sends it to 𝒜 . If
𝑥𝑖 has been queried previously, the challenger sends the
same response as the last time𝑥𝑖 was queried.
– 𝒜 outputs𝑏∗∈{ 0, 1} and wins if𝑏∗ =𝑏.
Definition A.3. IND-CCA security
An encryption scheme(Gen, Enc, Dec) is said to be IND-CCA
secure if any PPT adversary 𝒜 is successful in the following game
with the probability at most1
2+𝑛𝑒𝑔𝑙(𝑛), where𝑛𝑒𝑔𝑙(·) is a negligible
function:
• The challenger generates keys(𝑝𝑘,𝑠𝑘)← 𝐺𝑒𝑛(1𝑛).
• 𝒜 receives𝑝𝑘 as input.
• 𝒜 gets a black-box access to𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑠𝑘(·).
• 𝒜 chooses𝑥0,𝑥 1.
• The challenger chooses𝑏←{ 0, 1} at random and gives 𝒜
the challenge ciphertext𝑐 =𝐸𝑛𝑐𝑝𝑘(𝑥𝑏).
• 𝒜 ’s access to𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑠𝑘(·) is now restricted - 𝒜 is not allowed
to ask for the decryption of𝑐.
• 𝒜 outputs𝑏∗∈{ 0, 1} and wins if𝑏 =𝑏∗.
Note that authenticated encryption implies single-message IND-
CCA security, and single-message IND-CCA security implies multi-
message IND-CCA security.
Finally, we are using the random oracle model where all parties
have access to a random oracle, which is defined as follows:
Definition A.4. Random oracle
Given a security parameter 𝑛 and a length function 𝑙𝑜𝑢𝑡(·), a
random oracle𝑅 is a map from{0, 1}∗ to{0, 1}𝑙𝑜𝑢𝑡(𝑛).
A.2 Proof of Access Sequence Indistinguishability
We provide a security proof for Talek’s protocol by reduction to
the cryptographic assumptions provided in Appendix A.1. Defini-
tions of RealWrite and FakeWrite are provided in §5.3.RealRead,
FakeRead are defined in §5.4. Finally, interest vectors (addressed
in Game 4) are defined in §7 .
We consider a series of games adapted from the game in §3.2,
each defined from the previous one by idealizing some part of the
protocol. For game 𝑖, we write 𝑝𝑖 for the maximum advantage,
|𝑃𝑟(𝑏 = 𝑏′)− 1/2|, that 𝒜 holds in the security game. At each
step, we bound the adversary’s advantage between two successive
games. Technically, each of the following games consists of a series
of hybrid games, where we change each of the 𝑚 clients one by
one.
Game 0: This is the original game defined in §3.2 with an adver-
sary 𝒜 that chooses𝑚 challenger clients, and submits sequences
with𝛼0 calls to RealRead, and𝛼1 calls to RealWrite, using the
protocol defined in the paper. All RealReads and FakeReads from
the client trigger ProcessReadon the servers. All RealWrites and
FakeWrites from the client trigger ProcessWrite on the servers.
Thus, the adversary has control over the messages sent by the
clients over the network. We intend to show that the adversary’s
advantage in this game is negligible.
Game 1: (PIR Read) This game is as above, except that in each
RealRead(𝜏,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜), we replace the real read location (specifically
the bucket𝑃𝑅𝐹(𝜏.𝑘,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜 )) by the index of an arbitrary bucket, as
specified in FakeRead. Let𝜖𝑃𝐼𝑅(𝜆0,𝑛) bound the advantage of an
adversary breaking the PIR assumption in𝑛 calls to PIR read (via
RealRead) with security parameter𝜆0.
Given an adversary 𝒢 that distinguishes between Game 0 and
Game 1 and makes𝑛 calls to RealRead, we can construct an ad-
versary 𝒫 on the security of the𝑛-round PIR scheme. 𝒫 starts by
sending the set of indices of the servers, controlled by 𝒢 to its own
challenger 𝒞𝑃 . Then, 𝒫 behaves like a challenger to 𝒢 , following
the description of the access sequence indistinguishability game,
except for the case where a read request must be issued and the
read queue is not empty (thus, a RealRead(𝜏,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜) is executed).
In this case, 𝒫 computes𝑖 := 𝑃𝑅𝐹(𝜏.𝑘,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜 ), where𝑘 is equal
to𝑘𝑠1 or𝑘𝑠2, depending on whether the first or the second cuckoo
location must be read; 𝒫 also chooses 𝑗 at random in[0..𝑏− 1].
Then, 𝒫 forwards𝑖 and 𝑗 to 𝒞𝑃 . Upon receiving the 𝑙− 1 PIR
request queries from its challenger in response, 𝒫 forwards these
to 𝒢 . Upon 𝒢 ending the game, 𝒫 responds to its own challenger
𝒞𝑃 with𝑖, if 𝒢 ’s response was Game 0, and 𝑗, if 𝒢 ’s response was
Game 1. Note that𝑖 corresponds to the real location specified by
the RealRead request, whereas 𝑗 is sampled at random, as defined
by𝐹𝑎𝑘𝑒𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑑 . Thus, if 𝒞𝑃 chooses index𝑖, then the game 𝒢 is in is
exactly Game 0, and if 𝒞𝑃 chooses index 𝑗, then the game 𝒢 is in
is exactly Game 1. Since the adversary makes𝛼0 calls to𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑙𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑑 ,
we get:
𝑝0≤𝑝1+𝑚·𝜖𝑃𝐼𝑅(𝜆0,𝛼 0)
Game 2: (IND-CCA with Write) This game is as above, except
that RealWrite is modified to encrypt a dummy message instead
of𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜|𝑀.
Let 𝜖𝐴𝐸
𝐼𝑁𝐷−𝐶𝐶𝐴(𝜆1,𝑛) be the advantage of an adversary who
breaks the IND-CCA assumption and performs𝑛 calls to RealWrite
with security parameter𝜆1.
Given an adversary 𝒢 that distinguishes between Game 1 and
Game 2 and makes 𝑛 calls to RealWrite, we can construct an
adversary 𝒫 on the 𝑛-message IND-CCA security of the used
encryption scheme. 𝒫 behaves like a challenger to𝒢 , following the
description of the access sequence indistinguishability game, except
for the case where a write request must be issued and the write
queue is not empty (thus, a RealWrite(𝜏,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜,𝑀 ) is executed).
In this case, 𝒫 generates a random message 𝑀∗ with the same
length as 𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜|𝑀. Then, 𝒫 forwards𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜|𝑀 and𝑀∗ to 𝒞𝑃 .
Upon receiving the challenge ciphertext𝑐 in response, 𝒫 forwards
𝛽1|𝛽2|𝑐 to 𝒢 , where 𝛽1 and 𝛽2 are the numbers of the buckets
as specified by the Write request. Upon 𝒢 ending the game, 𝒫
responds to its own challenger 𝒞𝑃 with 0 (meaning the challenge
was an encryption of𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜|𝑀), if 𝒢 ’s response was Game 1, and
1, if 𝒢 ’s response was Game 2 (meaning the challenge was an
encryption of 𝑀∗). Note that if 𝒞𝑃 chooses 𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜|𝑀, then the
game 𝒢 is in is exactly Game 1, and if 𝒞𝑃 chooses𝑀∗, then the
game 𝒢 is in is exactly Game 2. Since the adversary makes𝛼1 calls
to𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑙𝑊𝑟𝑖𝑡𝑒 , we can apply the IND-CCA definition and get:
𝑝1≤𝑝2+𝑚·𝜖𝐴𝐸
𝐼𝑁𝐷−𝐶𝐶𝐴(𝜆1,𝛼 1)
Game 3: (PRF with Write) This game is as above, except we re-
place the PRF used to generate the bucket locations of RealWrites
with a truly random function, such that the client submits a

ACSAC 2020, December 7–11, 2020, Austin, USA R. Cheng, W. Scott, E. Masserova, I. Zhang, V. Goyal, T. Anderson, A. Krishnamurthy, and B. Parno
FakeWrite. Let𝜖𝑃𝑅𝐹
𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑢𝑖𝑠ℎ(𝜆2,𝑛) bound the advantage of an ad-
versary breaking the PRF assumption after𝑛 calls to the PRF with
a security parameter𝜆2. Technically, this game consists of a series
of up to 2𝑛 games: two for each log handle used in a write request.
In the following, we describe the game for replacing the PRF used
in the generation of𝛽1.
Given an adversary 𝒢 that distinguishes between Game 2 and
Game 3 and makes 𝑛 calls to RealWrite, we can construct an
adversary 𝒫 on the security of the used PRF that is called up to𝑛
times. 𝒫 behaves like a challenger to 𝒢 , following the description
of the access sequence indistinguishability game, except for the
case where a write request must be issued and the write queue
is not empty (thus, a RealWrite(𝜏,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜,𝑀 ) is executed). In this
case, 𝒫 forwards𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜 to 𝒞𝑃 . Upon receiving the challenge𝛽 in
response, 𝒫 uses it instead of𝛽1 in the generated Write request
and forwards the request to𝒢 (note that exactly the same procedure
can be done for𝛽2). Upon 𝒢 ending the game, 𝒫 responds to its
own challenger 𝒞𝑃 with𝑃𝑅𝐹 , if 𝒢 ’s response was Game 2, and
Random function , if 𝒢 ’s response was Game 3. Note that if 𝒞𝑃
chooses to use the PRF on the provided input, then the game 𝒢 is
in is exactly Game 2, and if 𝒞𝑃 chooses to use a random function,
then the game 𝒢 is in is exactlyGame 3. Since the adversary makes
𝛼1 calls to𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑙𝑊𝑟𝑖𝑡𝑒 and each of these calls contains two calls to
the PRF, we conclude:
𝑝2≤𝑝3+ 2·𝑚·𝜖𝑃𝑅𝐹
𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑢𝑖𝑠ℎ(𝜆2,𝛼 1)
Game 4: (Hash functions in interest vectors) This game is as
above, except we replace theℎ cryptographic hash functions used
in the Bloom filter of the interest vector with queries to a random
oracle. Technically, this game consists of a series of hybrid games,
where we change each of the ℎ hash function one by one. Let
𝜖ℎ𝑎𝑠ℎ(𝜆3,𝑛) bound the advantage of an adversary breaking the
random oracle assumption in𝑛 calls with a security parameter,𝜆3.
Given an adversary 𝒢 that distinguishes between Game 3 and
Game 4 and makes 𝑛 calls to RealWrite, we can construct an
adversary 𝒫 on the random oracle assumption that is called 𝑛
times. First, 𝒫 chooses𝑛 log IDs at random. 𝒫 behaves like a
challenger to 𝒢 , following the description of the access sequence
indistinguishability game, except for the case where a write re-
quest must be issued and the write queue is not empty (thus, a
RealWrite(𝜏,𝑠𝑒𝑞𝑁𝑜,𝑀 ) is executed). In this case,𝒫 selects one of
the𝑛 log IDs chosen in the beginning (using the same log id if the
log handle has been used in a RealWrite before) and forwards it to
𝒞𝑃 . The Write is then generated by 𝒞𝑃 as specified in the previous
game, except that the generation of the interest vector submitted
with this request is changed. The interest vector is generated as
specified in the previous game, except for the hash function in
question. The position in the interest vector defined by this hash
function is defined by the challenge received from𝒞𝑃 . Upon receiv-
ing this challenge𝑝𝑜𝑠 , 𝒫 puts a 1 in the position𝑝𝑜𝑠 of the interest
vector of the generated Write request and forwards the request to
𝒢 . Upon 𝒢 ending the game, 𝒫 responds to its own challenger 𝒞𝑃
with Hash function , if 𝒢 ’s response was Game 3, and it responds
with Random oracle, if 𝒢 ’s response was Game 4. Note that if
𝒞𝑃 chooses to use the hash function on the input provided, then
the game 𝒢 is in is exactly Game 3, and if 𝒞𝑃 chooses to use a
random oracle, then the game 𝒢 is in is exactly Game 4. Since
the adversary makes𝛼1 calls to RealWrite, and each of these calls
contains one call to each of theℎ cryptographic hash functions, we
conclude:
𝑝3≤𝑝4+𝑚·ℎ·𝜖ℎ𝑎𝑠ℎ(𝜆3,𝛼 1)
From this final game, all of the parameters in any network request
have been replaced with random values. Because Game 4 involves
all clients issuing periodic requests with random parameters, by
definition the adversary’s advantage,𝑝4, must be negligible.
Privacy: Collecting the probabilities from all games yields:
𝑝0≤𝑚·𝜖𝑃𝐼𝑅(𝜆0,𝛼 0)+
𝑚·𝜖𝐴𝐸
𝐼𝑁𝐷−𝐶𝑃𝐴(𝜆1,𝛼 1)+
2·𝑚·𝜖𝑃𝑅𝐹
𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑢𝑖𝑠ℎ(𝜆2,𝛼 1)+
𝑚·ℎ·𝜖ℎ𝑎𝑠ℎ(𝜆3,𝛼 1)
𝑝0 becomes negligible for large security parameters𝜆0,𝜆1,𝜆2, and
𝜆3.
Proof of Security for Serialized PIR We provide intuition for
the security of the serialized PIR introduced in §6 by reduction to
the security of the underlying PIR system discussed in §2, and the
cryptographic assumptions of the cryptographic primitives used.
First, because we use authenticated encryption, sending encryptions
of the seed𝑝𝑖 and PIR request values𝑞𝑖 for each server𝑖 through
the lead server is as secure as sending values 𝑝𝑖,𝑞𝑖 to server 𝑖
directly through authenticated secure communication channels.
Next, because of the security of the PRNG scheme, sending values
𝑝𝑖 and computing𝑃𝑖 =𝑃𝑅𝑁𝐺(𝑝𝑖) on the server side is comparable
to the security of the client generating random bit vectors𝑃𝑖 and
sending those to the servers instead. Finally, because at this point
vectors𝑃𝑖 are randomly generated and can be viewed as a one-time
pad, computing responses𝑅𝑖 and sending values𝑅𝑖⊕𝑃𝑖 to the lead
server is as secure as computing and sending responses𝑅𝑖 to the
client directly. At this point, the modified protocol corresponds
exactly to the original version discussed in §2.