Quarantined-TreeKEM: a Continuous Group Key Agreement for
MLS, Secure in Presence of Inactive Users∗
Céline Chevalier
DIENS, École normale supérieure,
CNRS, PSL University, Inria
Paris, France
CRED, Paris-Panthéon-Assas University
Paris, France
celine.chevalier@ens.fr
Guirec Lebrun
DIENS, École normale supérieure,
CNRS, PSL University, Inria
Paris, France
ANSSI
Paris, France
guirec.lebrun@ens.fr
Ange Martinelli
ANSSI
Paris, France
ange.martinelli@ssi.gouv.fr
Abdul Rahman Taleb
ANSSI
Paris, France
abdulrahman.taleb@ssi.gouv.fr
Abstract
The recently standardized secure group messaging protocol Mes-
saging Layer Security (MLS) is designed to ensure asynchronous
communications within large groups, with an almost-optimal com-
munication cost and the same security level as point-to-point se-
cure messaging protocols such as Signal. In particular, the core
sub-protocol of MLS, a Continuous Group Key Agreement (CGKA)
called TreeKEM, must generate a common group key that respects
the fundamental security properties of post-compromise security
and forward secrecy which mitigate the effects of user corruption
over time.
Most research on CGKAs has focused on how to improve these
two security properties. However, post-compromise security and
forward secrecy require the active participation of respectively all
compromised users and all users within the group. Inactive users
– who remain offline for long periods – do not update anymore
their encryption keys and therefore represent a vulnerability for
the entire group. This issue has already been identified in the MLS
standard, but no solution, other than expelling these inactive users
after some disconnection time, has been found.
We propose here a CGKA protocol based on TreeKEM and fully
compatible with the MLS standard, that implements a quarantine
mechanism for the inactive users in order to mitigate the risk in-
duced by these users during their inactivity period and before they
are removed from the group. That mechanism indeed updates the
inactive users’ encryption keys on their behalf and secures these
keys with a secret sharing scheme. If some of the inactive users
eventually reconnect, their quarantine stops and they are able to
recover all the messages that were exchanged during their offline
period. Our Quarantined-TreeKEM protocol thus increases the se-
curity of original TreeKEM, with a very limited – and sometimes
negative – communication overhead.
Keywords
MLS, TreeKEM, CGKA, Quarantine, Forward Secrecy, Post-Compromise
Security
∗An extended abstract of this paper appears in the proceedings of ACM CCS’24. This
is the full version.
1 Introduction
While point-to-point secure communication has reached a high
degree of maturity with the development of end-to-end secure
messaging (SM) protocols that have been thoroughly studied, group
communication has suffered until recently from a lack of dedicated
research. In practice, secure messaging applications that offer a
functionality of group communication rely on ad-hoc protocols
that are either less secure than their point-to-point counterpart (e.g.
the SenderKey protocol, used by WhatsApp [1]) or that are quite
inefficient, especially with a communication cost scaling linearly
with the number𝑛 of group members.
To remedy this situation, the IETF has released in July 2023,
after a five-year study, RFC 9420 [10] that standardizes Messaging
Layer Security (MLS). This state-of-the-art Secure Group Messaging
(SGM) protocol is designed to enable secure communication in
large groups of users – up to tens of thousands members – with an
almost-optimal communication cost.
The core component of MLS is its mechanism of authenticated
key exchange between all members of a group, called a Contin-
uous Group Key Agreement (CGKA) [5], which needs to be run
continuously for security considerations.
The CGKA protocol that has been most thoroughly studied, and
that was adopted in the final IETF standard, is TreeKEM [14]. Its
architecture, close to the original ART protocol [18], relies on binary
trees in order to exchange handshake data between𝑛 users with
an almost-optimal complexity of𝑂(log2(𝑛)).
1.1 Security Properties of a CGKA
Among all the security properties that a CGKA must fulfill (cf.
Section 2.4), two in particular – post-compromise security (PCS) and
forward secrecy (FS) – require an active participation of respectively
all compromised users and all group members, who must update
their keying material and the one of the tree’s internal nodes above
them. These properties are especially hard to ensure in a CGKA,
due to the asynchronicity of the protocol and the fact that within
a potentially large group, it appears unlikely that all users behave
correctly by updating regularly their keying material.

Chevalier et al.
1.1.1 Post-Compromise Security (PCS). This property represents
the ability of a protocol to heal from the corruption of a group
member, that leaked that user’s private state, provided that the
adversary remains passive after the end of that compromise.
Most papers aiming to improve the security of CGKA protocols
focus on post-compromise security and try to minimize the original
number𝑛 of rounds (𝑛 being the number of group members) nec-
essary to heal a fully-compromised tree. For instance, the CoCoA
protocol [3] allows concurrent updates in a single round, with a
mechanism of prioritization between them, that permits to reach
PCS in only

log2(𝑛)

+ 1 rounds. Going further, the alternate De-
CAF protocol [2] reduces this healing complexity to

log2(𝑡)

+ 1
rounds when only𝑡 users among𝑛 are compromised.
But the most efficient method to ensure PCS is the Propose &
Commit paradigm, which has been part of the MLS IETF working
draft since version 8 [9]. This protocol allows a full healing of the
binary tree in only two rounds, whatever the number of compro-
mised users, yet at the cost of a non-negligible communication
overhead (since the binary tree is temporarily destructured).
1.1.2 Forward Secrecy (FS). This fundamental security property
states that non-compromised past communication cannot be jeop-
ardized in the future by any user corruption. This property can be
ensured at the scale of a session (in the case of a CGKA, by securing
past epochs) or of a message, using symmetric ratchet to make
the symmetric encryption key evolve after sending each encrypted
message. Similarly to PCS, FS at the scale of an epoch relies on the
fresh randomness brought by the key agreements performed by the
CGKA. However, it suffers from the need to update all encryption
keys in the tree (not only all users’ keys but also the ones of all
internal nodes).
To the best of our knowledge, the only work improving the
original FS of TreeKEM is the RTreeKEM protocol of [4]. It provides
a stronger forward secrecy than other CGKAs, by automatically
updating – using a non-standard updatable public-key encryption
scheme1 – the encryption keys of all internal nodes and leaves that
receive or emit any encrypted message.
1.1.3 Dealing with Inactive Users. However, none of these works
deals with the issue of user behavior, which is yet at the root of
a major security flaw. Indeed, even if a protocol can force online
users to regularly update their keys and if the question of updat-
ing the internal nodes has already been addressed in various ways
(e.g. by blanking entire direct paths, from users to the root, in the
Propose & Commit model or by somehow merging several concur-
rent path updates in [29], [3] or [2]), the case of users remaining
offline for long periods is not considered, as it is seen intrinsic to
the asynchronicity of the protocol. Since these inactive users no
longer update their encryption keys, it only takes one of them to
compromise the forward secrecy of the entire group. Similarly, a
single corrupted inactive user is enough to undermine the whole
group’s post-compromise security. RFC 9420 identifies this problem
but only recommends that users who have been offline for too long
be removed from the group.
1This scheme is derived from the secretly key-updatable PKE from [22], that is used in
a variant of our QTK protocol described in Section 2.3.
1.2 Our Contribution
We propose in this paper Quarantined-TreeKEM (QTK), a TreeKEM-
based CGKA protocol which mitigates the effects, both on forward
secrecy and post-compromise security, of inactive group members
who no longer update their keying material and the one of their
direct path (i.e. the internal nodes above them).
Instead of passively waiting for that inactive users to be eventu-
ally expelled from the group, our protocol temporarily puts them
aside, in what we call a quarantine. We call such quarantined users
ghosts. The randomly-chosen user who initiates this procedure
(cf. Section 3.3 for details on the selection of this quarantine ini-
tiator) for a certain ghost is responsible for blanking the latter’s
direct path and updating its encryption keys on its behalf, so that
future handshake messages delivered by the Delivery Service are
not encrypted with an old and potentially compromised encryption
key known by this ghost, but with fresh keying material.
The use of a proxy to update another user’s encryption keying
material on its behalf has been proposed by the Tainted TreeKEM
protocol [23] in order to add or remove users without having to
blank their direct paths. However, Tainted TreeKEM does not im-
prove TreeKEM’s security and instead enhances the CGKA’s effi-
ciency by keeping a Ratchet Tree structured at all times.
Moreover, unlike a proxy in Tainted TreeKEM, the quarantine
initiator in Quarantined-TreeKEM does not retain the (secret) de-
cryption key belonging to the ghost user. Instead, the secret seed
that was used to deterministically generate the ghost’s encryption
key-pair is split up using a secret sharing scheme and distributed
to all group members. The ghost’s secret seed and private key are
then deleted from the initiator’s internal state. In this way, the con-
fidentiality of the ghost’s secret key no longer relies on the security
of a single user – the quarantine initiator – but on that of several
active group members (the number of which depends on the secret
sharing parameters).
When a ghost finally reconnects and updates its keying material,
its quarantine automatically stops and the users that kept shares
related to that ghost send them to it. The former ghost is therefore
able to reconstruct the secret seeds corresponding to its quarantine
keys and to eventually decrypt the handshake messages that it
missed during its offline time and that remained buffered by the
Delivery Service. In the few cases where the former ghost does not
receive enough shares to reconstruct its quarantine keys – which
is highly unlikely in large groups –, it remains able to reconnect to
the group but it looses its quarantine history.
This quarantine mechanism strongly strengthens TreeKEM’s
post-compromise security by enabling this property at the begin-
ning of a ghost’s quarantine – after a period of inactivity that is
fully controlled by the protocol – instead of after some hypothet-
ical update of that inactive user, that may never happen until its
eviction from the group.
Regarding forward secrecy, our protocol does not change the
time at which this property is assured for the group2. Nevertheless,
2Indeed, forward secrecy needs the update of every group member – including inactive
users – after the generation of the challenge group key. As a reconnecting ghost
recovers its quarantine history, forward secrecy is assured only when all the ghosts in
the group have either been removed from the group or have already recovered their
quarantine shares and updated.

Quarantined-TreeKEM
before forward secrecy is reached, QTK greatly decreases, in com-
parison with TreeKEM, the chances of an adversary to successfully
attack past communication by corrupting inactive users. These
chances are captured by the concept of critical window, issued from
[23] and detailed in Section 4.2 and Figure 5, that corresponds to
the period of vulnerability of a user. The critical window of a ghost
with QTK is much smaller than the one of an inactive user with
TreeKEM, as depicted by Figure 1, which enhances the protocol’s
security.
As in the MLS standard and several recent works [23], [3], [2],
the security of QTK is analyzed in this paper by considering a
partially active adversary that is able to corrupt any user and leak
all of its secret elements except for its private signature key, and
consequently cannot impersonate these compromised users. The
justification of this adversarial model is detailled in Section 4.1,
while the main risks induced by a fully active adversary on our
quarantine mechanism and some solutions to overcome them are
briefly discussed in Appendix A.1.
1.3 Outline of the Paper
We describe in Section 3 how our QTK protocol works, and in
particular, how a quarantine is carried out from start to end and
how a secret sharing scheme is used to distribute secret information
among the group.
Security is studied in Section 4 in a game-based model inspired
by [23]. We show that our protocol is CGKA-secure in this frame-
work and that the main differences with standard TreeKEM are the
periods during which users are vulnerable to corruption, through
the aforementioned concept of critical window (cf. Section 4.2).
Section 5 studies the performance of our protocol in terms of
availability – which corresponds to the probability of success of a
quarantine key reconstruction by a former ghost – and regarding
its computational, storage and – above all – communication costs.
This section, thoroughly detailed in Appendix C and Appendix D
for respectively the availability and the communication cost, shows
the viability of QTK as a CGKA in real-life conditions, with its
quite limited overheads compared to MLS and an availability that
is almost guaranteed3 when the group size increases – which is
precisely the use case for which MLS was designed.
Finally, we present in Appendix B an enhancement to our basic
QTK protocol, called jointly-implemented quarantine, that further
increases the security offered by QTK by using several users instead
of a single one for each operation of quarantine initialization or
update.
We also propose as additional content to our study an open-
source implementation of our QTK protocol, forked from an official
implementation of MLS in Kotlin, which is available at [28].
2 Preliminaries
2.1 Notations and Terminology
The output of a probabilistic algorithm is represented by← and
the one of a deterministic algorithm is given by :=.
3This availability is nevertheless restrained by the 𝑛𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑
𝑚𝑎𝑥 parameter which aims
to limit the number of messages exchanged by the reconnecting ghost, but in so
doing, also reduces the probability of successful reconstruction of the quarantine key.
Cf. Appendix D for more details.
Figure 1: Comparison of the forward secrecy and post-
compromise security of TreeKEM and our QTK protocol,
with a focus on an inactive user that weakens the security of
the entire group. Post-compromise security is achieved ear-
lier with QTK and forward secrecy is enhanced by reducing
the period of vulnerability of that inactive user.
·||· is used for the concatenation operation. |·| denotes the
cardinality of a set of elements or the bit-length of a bit-string.⌊⌉
and⌈⌉ respectively denote the rounding and ceiling values of a
decimal number.
In the context of a secret sharing scheme:
• [𝑥]𝑖 denotes the specific share𝑖 associated to the value𝑥;
• [𝑥] = ([𝑥]𝑖)𝑖∈J0,𝑚−1K represents the entire collection of
𝑚 shares associated with𝑥.
Regarding CGKAs, which use a binary tree – called a Ratchet
Tree – to represent the group of users and all the informations
associated with it, we need to dissociate the leavesℓ𝑖 of that tree,
that are attributed to the group members, from the internal nodes
𝑣𝑖 (cf. Section 2.5 for details on a CGKA’s Ratchet Tree). To do so,
we note𝑥𝑣𝑖 a value𝑥 related to an internal node 𝑣𝑖 whereas the
value𝑥 from a leafℓ𝑖 is simply noted𝑥𝑖.
2.2 Secret Sharing [27]
Let us recall the definition of a secret sharing scheme, issued from
[15].
Definition 2.1 (Threshold Secret Sharing Scheme). A(𝑡,𝑚)-(threshold)
secret sharing scheme over a finite setZ is a pair of efficient al-
gorithms (Distr, Comb) that respectively perform the following
tasks:
• Distributing the secret: Distr is a probabilistic algorithm
that splits up a secret𝛼∈Z , according to parameters𝑡,𝑚
(which respectively denote the recovery threshold and the
total number of shares to emit), into a collection of𝑚 shares
([𝛼]𝑖)𝑖∈J0,𝑚−1K such that at least𝑡 of them are necessary
to reconstruct the shared secret𝛼.
[𝛼] =([𝛼]0,··· ,[𝛼]𝑚−1)← 𝐷𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑟  𝛼,𝑡,𝑚 

Chevalier et al.
• Reconstructing the secret: Comb is a deterministic com-
bination algorithm that reconstructs the shared secret 𝛼
with a subset([𝛼]𝑖)𝑖∈I⊆ J0,𝑚−1K of the share collection, of
size at least𝑡.
𝛼 :=𝐶𝑜𝑚𝑏 ([𝛼]𝑖)𝑖∈I,I
A secret sharing scheme must abide by the correctness property,
which states that for every secret𝛼∈Z , for every possible output
[𝛼] of the distributing algorithm Distr(𝛼,𝑡,𝑚) and every subsetI
of J0,𝑚− 1K of size at least𝑡, we have:
𝐶𝑜𝑚𝑏 ([𝛼]𝑖)𝑖∈I,I =𝛼
Nota: We only consider in this paper:
• Perfect secret sharing schemes, for which any collection
of𝑡− 1 shares related to a secret𝛼∈Z gives strictly no
information about that shared secret. Consequently, for any
unbounded adversaryA trying to recover𝛼 given a subset
([𝛼]𝑖)𝑖∈I′⊆J0,𝑚−1K of size strictly smaller than𝑡, we have:
𝑃𝑟

𝛼←A  ([𝛼]𝑖)𝑖∈I′,I′
= 1
|Z|
• Ideal secret sharing schemes: these are perfect schemes
that additionally generate shares belonging to the same set
Z as the shared secret, thus with identical sizes.
2.3 Secretly Key-Updatable Public Key
Encryption
Informally, a secretly key-updatable public key encryption scheme
(skuPKE) (originally defined in [ 22]) is a PKE whose public and
private keys can be updated by independently generated update
elements(Θ,𝜃). The update element Θ for the public encryption
key𝑝𝑘 can be publicly disclosed, whereas the update element𝜃 for
the private decryption key𝑠𝑘 must remain secret.
Definition 2.2 (Secretly Key-Updatable Public Key Encryption [ 22]).
A secretly key-updatable public key encryption scheme (skuPKE)
consists of six polynomial-time algorithms:
• KeyGen takes as input the security parameter𝜆 and prob-
abilistically outputs a couple of public and private keys
(𝑝𝑘,𝑠𝑘).
• Enc takes as input a public key𝑝𝑘∈PK and a plaintext
𝑚∈M and probabilistically yields a ciphertext𝑐.
• Dec takes as input a secret key𝑠𝑘∈SK and a ciphertext
𝑐 ∈C and deterministically generates a plaintext 𝑚. As
for a regular PKE, a skuPKE scheme is correct if we have:
∀(𝑝𝑘,𝑠𝑘)← KeyGen(1𝜆),∀𝑚∈M , Dec(𝑠𝑘, Enc(𝑝𝑘,𝑚)) =
𝑚.
• UpdGen takes as input the security parameter𝜆 and prob-
abilistically outputs a couple of public and private update
elements(Θ,𝜃).
• UpdPk takes as input a public key𝑝𝑘∈PK and a public
update element Θ and yields an updated public key𝑝𝑘′.
• UpdSk takes as input a private key𝑠𝑘∈SK and a private
update element𝜃 and outputs an updated private key𝑠𝑘′.
(𝑝𝑘,𝑠𝑘)← KeyGen(1𝜆) (Θ,𝜃)← UpdGen(1𝜆)
𝑐← Enc(𝑝𝑘,𝑚) 𝑝𝑘′ := UpdPk(𝑝𝑘, Θ)
𝑚 := Dec(𝑠𝑘,𝑐) 𝑠𝑘′ := UpdSk(𝑠𝑘,𝜃)
2.4 Continuous Group Key Agreement
A CGKA is a sub-protocol of a secure group messaging protocol,
that aims to securely generate a group key which is common to all
group members and evolves over time in order to provide the secu-
rity properties of forward secrecy and post-compromise security.
The definition below is adapted [4] in order to take into account
TreeKEM’s Propose & Commit paradigm.
Definition 2.3 (Propose & Commit CGKA). A CGKA with the
Propose & Commit Paradigm is a tuple of the following algorithms:
• Initialization: user𝑢𝑖 creates its initial state𝛾𝑖:
𝛾𝑖← init(𝑢𝑖)
• Group Creation: user𝑢𝑖, with state𝛾𝑖, creates a new group
that must include users from the list
𝐺 =(𝑢𝑖)𝑖∈J1,𝑛K. A message welcome𝑊 is sent to all mem-
bers from 𝐺, with the information necessary to join the
group: (𝛾′
𝑖,𝑊) := create− group(𝛾𝑖,𝐺)
• Propose: user𝑢𝑖 proposes a change to the group’s state
through an action𝑎∈ A, withA⊇{ Add, Remove, Update}
the set of actions authorized by the CGKA. In particular:
– add (𝑢𝑗 ):𝑢𝑖 proposes to add user𝑢𝑗 to the group;
– remove(𝑢𝑗 ):𝑢𝑖 proposes to remove𝑢𝑗 from the group;
– update:𝑢𝑖 updates its own encryption keying material
(the one of its leaf) and generates an updated state𝛾′
𝑖 .
User𝑢𝑖 then broadcasts a Proposal message𝑃 to the entire
group: (𝛾′
𝑖,𝑃)← propose(𝛾𝑖,𝑎[,𝑢𝑗])
• Commit: when receiving a set of 𝑝 proposal messages
P ={𝑃𝑖}𝑖∈J1,𝑝K, user𝑢𝑖 validates them and updates its own
encryption keying material and the one of its direct path,
generating a new group key 𝑘. It then updates its state
into𝛾′
𝑖 to take into account that changes, and broadcasts
a Commit message 𝐶 as well as (potentially) a Welcome
message for the new group members:
(𝛾′
𝑖,𝑘,𝐶 [,𝑊])← commit(𝛾𝑖, P)
• Process: user𝑢𝑖 processes a Commit message𝐶 or a Wel-
come Message𝑊 it has received from a committer, updates
accordingly its own state and computes the new group
key𝑘 resulting from these changes:
(𝛾′
𝑖,𝑘) := process(𝛾𝑖,𝑚∈{𝐶,𝑊})
A CGKA must fulfill the following properties, stated informally
below and evaluated in the security game of Section 4.1.2.
• Correctness: every user in the group must compute the
same group key.
• Privacy: a group key is indistinguishable from a random
value for an adversary who has access to the transcript of
handshake messages exchanged within the group until the
generation of that group key.
• Forward secrecy and post-compromise security, as de-
scribed in Section 1.1.

Quarantined-TreeKEM
2.5 TreeKEM CGKA Protocol
We give hereunder a brief description of how TreeKEM – as stan-
dardized in RFC 9420 [ 10] – works as a Continuous Group Key
Agreement (CGKA) protocol.
2.5.1 Ratchet Tree. In order to optimize the communication cost
between group members, TreeKEM implements an architecture
based on a binary tree called Ratchet Tree, where users are at the
leaves and the group key is elaborated at the root. Similarly to
TreeKEM, we consider in this paper a descending full binary tree,
where the two nodes beneath another node are called its children
and the one above is its parent.
We explain beneath some tree notions that are used in TreeKEM
to perform dynamic tree operations such as updates.
Node’s State. Each node of this Ratchet Tree, except for the root,
is associated with a local state with public and private components.
• The public state𝑝𝛾 comprises, among other elements
– for an internal node𝑣: its public encryption key𝑝𝑘𝑣;
– for a user (leaf) 𝑢𝑖: its public encryption and signa-
ture keys𝑝𝑘𝑖 and𝑠𝑝𝑘𝑖, with the related credentials. It
also includes the signature, under the user’s private
signature key, of the other fields of that public state.
• The private state𝑠𝛾 contains:
– the group key and all the group secrets derived from
it;
– the private encryption keys of that node and of its
filtered direct path, as well as the temporary secret
elements (leaf secret, path secrets) associated with that
keys.
As we see in Section 4.1.1, the private state of a leaf does not
comprise the user’s private signature key. This one must indeed be
separated from the other private elements of that user and stored
in a secure enclave. This compartmentalization is of importance in
case of user corruption.
Blank Nodes. Deleted nodes from TreeKEM’s Ratchet Tree are
not removed – since the latter must remain a full binary tree, with
two children for each internal node – but their state is deleted
instead. Such empty nodes are called blank and do not take part in
TreeKEM’s processes until they are filled again.
Resolution of a Node. The resolution of a node𝑣 from a binary
tree is a set of nodes defined as follows:
• if𝑣 is a non-blank node, then𝑅𝑒𝑠(𝑣) ={𝑣};
• if𝑣 is a blank leaf, then𝑅𝑒𝑠(𝑣) =∅;
• if𝑣 is a blank internal node, then
𝑅𝑒𝑠(𝑣) =∪𝑣′∈𝐶ℎ𝑖𝑙𝑑𝑟𝑒𝑛(𝑣)𝑅𝑒𝑠(𝑣′).
(Filtered) Direct Path and Copath of a Leaf. A user𝑢𝑖’s direct path
is composed of all the ancestors of the leaf associated with that
user, up to the root. Its filtered direct path, writtenP𝑖, is its direct
path whose nodes that have a child with an empty resolution are
removed. A user’s copath,CP𝑖, contains the siblings of the direct
path’s nodes.
2.5.2 Updates with TreeKEM. The update of the encryption keying
material is implemented differently in TreeKEM whether it belongs
to a user (i.e. a leaf) or an internal node.
Indeed, as stated in Definition 2.3, all tree operations are per-
formed in two rounds with the Propose & Commit paradigm from
TreeKEM:
• a first one where any user is free to submitproposals (adding
new users, removing current group members, updating its
own keying material...);
• a second one where the proposals are checked by a single
user, called committer, in order to reject invalid proposals
and prioritize between contradictory ones. The accepted
proposals are then grouped together and implemented, still
by that committer, within a commit.
Update of the Committer’s Filtered Direct Path. During a commit
process, as shown by Figure 2, the committer randomly draws a se-
cret seed called leaf secret; this one is derived, with a key derivation
function, into a node secret that serves as a seed to deterministically
generate a fresh encryption key-pair.
In parallel, the leaf secret is derived into another secret 𝑝𝑠𝑣1,
called a path secret, that is associated with this leaf’s parent𝑣1. This
path secret𝑝𝑠𝑣1 is itself derived into a node secret to deterministi-
cally generate an encryption key-pair for the benefit of that leaf’s
parent𝑣1. It is then derived once again into a new path secret𝑝𝑠𝑣2,
related to another node𝑣2, higher in the leaf’s filtered direct path,
and so on, up to the tree root.
The group key𝑘 is then computed by deriving the root’s path
secret𝑝𝑠𝑟𝑜𝑜𝑡 .
Broadcast of a Commit Message to the Ratchet Tree. After updating
its encryption key-pair, its filtered direct path and the group key,
the committer𝑢𝑐 must transmit to the other group members the
information they need to compute the new group key. To do so, the
committer generates a commit message𝐶 that is broadcasted to the
whole group (through a central server that simply plays a role of
an untrusted Delivery Service).
This commit message𝐶 consists of:
• the list of proposals that the commit implements (P);
• the updated (signed) public local state𝑝𝛾′𝑐 of the committer;
• the new public encryption keys(𝑝𝑘′𝑣𝑝)𝑣𝑝∈P𝑐 from the com-
mitter’s filtered direct path;
• the path secrets of the nodes𝑣𝑝∈P𝑐 from the committer’s
filtered direct path, encrypted under the public keys of the
nodes𝑣𝑟 belonging to the resolutionR𝑣𝑝 of𝑣𝑝’s child on
the committer’s copath.
𝐶(𝑢𝑐) = P|| 𝑝𝛾′
𝑐||  𝑝𝑘′
𝑣𝑝

𝑣𝑝∈P𝑐||  Enc(𝑝𝑘𝑣𝑟,𝑝𝑠𝑣𝑝)𝑣𝑟∈R𝑣𝑝
𝑣𝑝∈P𝑐
2.5.3 Tree Evolution and Epochs. The evolution of the group over
time is represented by the notion of epoch. Each epoch corresponds
to a given state of the user group, with a certain group key. Each
time this group state is modified by a commit, the group key evolves
and the epoch is incremented of one unit.
We now describe our QTK protocol, with its associated mecha-
nism of quarantine applied on inactive users.

Chevalier et al.
Figure 2: Update, with TreeKEM, of a user’s filtered direct
path (here user A). This process updates the encryption key-
pairs of that user and of all its ancestors; it also generates a
new group key.
3 QTK protocol
Definition 3.1 (Quarantine TreeKEM (QTK)). The Quarantine
TreeKEM protocol is a TreeKEM-based CGKA, associated with
a(𝑡,𝑚)-perfect secret sharing scheme4, that implements a mecha-
nism of quarantine for inactive users – called ghost users – within
the group.
This quarantine process updates the ghosts’ keying material
on their behalf and uses the secret sharing scheme to collectively
secure the secret information related to these updates.
In this paper, we describe QTK with processes from the TreeKEM
protocol standardized by IETF [10]. However, our protocol remains
compatible with most – if not all – TreeKEM-derived CGKAs that
are proposed in the literature ([3], [2], [4], [29], [23]. . . ).
3.1 Message Delivery Mode
We detail two variants of our QTK protocol, that depend on the
ability of the Central Server’s Delivery Service to perform fine-
grained message-delivery:
• broadcast-only setting: all handshake messages are broad-
casted to the entire group;
• server-aided setting: the regular TreeKEM messages (pro-
posals, commits...) are broadcasted, but two types of mes-
sages specific to our protocol (Share Distribution Message
and Share Recovery Message, cf. below) are only sent to the
adequate recipients.
The server-aided setting, already studied in the CGKA litera-
ture [19], [20], [6], permits to greatly improve the communication
cost, especially in large groups, but it is not as generalizable as a
broadcast-only protocol – such as the standardized MLS – where
no assumption is made on the Central Server’s capacities.
3.2 QTK Public States
In TreeKEM, each user keeps an updated view of the whole Ratchet
Tree, and in particular, of all other group members, through their
public states𝑝𝛾 (a.k.a leaf nodes).
In our QTK protocol, this public state includes two additional
fields necessary to conduct a quarantine:
• The first one (𝑒𝑝𝑘 ) corresponds to the epoch of last update of
the user’s encryption key-pair, that the committer of every
4Cf. Section 2.2 for additional details on that primitive.
epoch checks when creating its commit, in order to detect
inactive users that are to be quarantined (cf. Section 3.3).
• The second one (𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟 ) is the epoch corresponding to the
start of the quarantine. This field allows committers to
check whether a ghost reaches the maximum quarantine
duration𝛿𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟 that is parametrized at the application level.
For active users, this field remains empty.
3.3 Start of a Quarantine
3.3.1 Initialization Process. At each commit, the unique commit-
ter5 checks that the encryption keys of all other active users in the
tree have not exceeded a maximum age defined by the parameter
𝛿𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑐𝑡 . If, at a given epoch𝑒𝑖, certain users have keys that are too old
(𝑒𝑖−𝑒𝑝𝑘≥𝛿𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑐𝑡 ), they are declared ghost users and the committer
is responsible for quarantining them.
We noteG𝑖 the set of ghost users at epoch𝑒𝑖, andNG𝑖⊆G 𝑖 the
subset of ghost users starting their quarantine at epoch𝑒𝑖.
The quarantine initialization process, at epoch𝑒𝑖, consists of the
following steps:
(1) The committer𝑢𝑐 for that epoch, as quarantine initiator,
updates the ghost list G𝑖+1 for the epoch 𝑒𝑖+1 that will
follow the commit, by adding new ghosts and removing
ghosts that are reconnecting or that have reached the limit
of their quarantine duration and must be removed from the
group at epoch𝑒𝑖+1.
(2) The committer blanks the direct paths of the new ghosts so
that they are (functionally) directly linked to the tree root.
(3) For each of the new ghosts, the committer randomly draws
a seed from a seed spaceS, that is used to deterministically
generate a fresh encryption key-pair:
∀𝑢𝑔∈NG𝑖+1,𝑠𝑖+1
𝑔
$
←S
(𝑝𝑘𝑖+1
𝑔 ,𝑠𝑘𝑖+1
𝑔 ) := KeyGen(1𝜆;𝑠𝑖+1
𝑔 )
(4) With a(𝑡,𝑚)-perfect secret sharing scheme, the committer
splits up the seeds into𝑚 shares (the number of shares being
defined by the share distribution method), with a threshold
𝑡 < 𝑚 whose choice is a trade-off between security and
availability of the protocol6:
∀𝑢𝑔∈NG𝑖+1,[𝑠𝑖+1
𝑔 ]← 𝐷𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑟(𝑠𝑖+1
𝑔 ,𝑡,𝑚)
with[𝑠𝑖+1
𝑔 ] :={[𝑠𝑖+1
𝑔 ]0,··· ,[𝑠𝑖+1
𝑔 ]𝑚−1}.
(5) The committer records in its private state𝑠𝛾𝑐 the first share
[𝑠𝑖+1𝑔 ]0 of each new ghost and distributes the remaining
𝑚− 1 shares in the tree, according to a share distribution
process detailed below.
(6) The committer includes in its pending commit message the
new ghosts’ public keys, along with its own new key and
the new ones from its direct pathP𝑖+1𝑐 .
5TreeKEM selects the committer for a given epoch as the first group member trying to
exchange content data after a proposal has been issued by another user and has not
yet been taken into account in a commit.
6Indeed, with a high threshold, the secret sharing scheme needs most of the shares in
order to reconstruct the secret. It is therefore more secure than with a low threshold;
however the probability to be unable to legitimately recover that secret increases, at
the expense of the scheme’s availability. We underline that in even in case of failure of
the secret sharing reconstruction, the ghost remains able to reconnect to the group.

Quarantined-TreeKEM
(7) The committer deletes from its private state the secret key
𝑠𝑘𝑖+1𝑔 , seed𝑠𝑖+1𝑔 and shares([𝑠𝑖+1𝑔 ]𝑖)𝑖∈J1,𝑚−1K of each ghost.
3.3.2 Share Distribution in the Ratchet Tree. The distribution within
the tree of the shares previously emitted depends on the message de-
livery mode (cf. Section 3.1) and on the share distribution method.
Figure 3 compares the two share distribution methods, detailed
below, for an unbalanced Ratchet Tree.
In thebroadcast-only setting, the default share distribution method
is adapted to the architecture of a binary tree, and therefore op-
timizes the communication cost of this exchange. We however
propose an alternate method, called horizontal share distribution
that must be used when the conditions are not conducive to that
default method (when the number of users is too low to gener-
ate a number of shares greater than or equal to the secret sharing
threshold). In the server-aided setting, on the other hand, only the
horizontal share distribution method can be implemented.
Default Method: Shares with Path Secrets. By default, shares are
joined to the path secrets created by the committer’s path update,
which implies that they are sent to the same recipients as these
ones7. Consequently, the same share is distributed to all users 8
beneath each node belonging to the resolution of the nodes in the
committer’s copath.
In order to avoid having a share detained by a single user, the
committer holds the same share as the one it sends to its sibling.
For instance, in case 1 of Figure 3, the committer𝑢0 and its sibling
user𝑢1 have the same share[𝑠𝑔]0. However, if the committer is
located higher in the tree (for instance if it is user𝑢4), its sibling is
no longer a leaf but an internal node (here, the node𝑣03) and thus
the share detained by the committer is also sent to all the leaves
descending from that sibling node (here𝑢0 to𝑢3).
Consequently, the number of users who keep the same share
strongly varies, according to their relative positions in the tree with
respect to the committer. Indeed, the committer and its sibling –
if any – are the only keepers of the first two shares [𝑠𝑖+1𝑔 ]0 and
[𝑠𝑖+1𝑔 ]1 associated with a new ghost𝑢𝑔, whereas on the other end
of the tree, the whole opposite subtree at the root of the tree (filled
with up to 𝑛
2 users for a full binary tree) is given the same share
[𝑠𝑖+1𝑔 ]𝑚−1.
When the structure of the Ratchet Tree differs from a full, blank-
node-free, binary tree, the number of nodes in the committer’s
filtered direct path may vary from 1 to𝑛− 1 (depending on the tree
balance and on the committer’s location in this tree). As this value
also represents the number of path secrets, and therefore the num-
ber of shares to transmit, in a worst-case scenario where this path
only comprises one node9, the default share distribution method
only generates two shares: one corresponding to that single node
in the committer’s filtered direct path, and one for the committer
itself. Clearly, this number of shares is too low to be acceptable,
7The only exception is if the only recipient of an encrypted path secret is the ghost
user itself. In this case, the path secret is sent anyway, but without any share attached,
which decreases by one the total number of emitted shares.
8Active group members and ghost users as well, except for the ghost associated with
the shares.
9This scenario may happen even with a large number of users and even for a left-
balanced binary tree, if we have a group of 2𝑥+ 1 users and if the committer happens
to be the single leaf of the right root’s subtree.
Figure 3: Compared share distribution methods, with the de-
fault (top) and horizontal (bottom) share distribution meth-
ods. The latter must be used when the number 𝑚 of emitted
shares with the default distribution falls under the minimum
allowed value𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑛 = 3 (in this instance), which is the case
in this Ratchet Tree when the quarantine initiator is user 𝑢4.
especially in order to implement a recovery threshold for the secret
sharing scheme.
Consequently, an alternative share distribution method must be
used when the number of shares emitted with the default method
falls below a minimum value𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑛 > 2, defined at the application
level.
Alternate Method: the Horizontal Share Distribution. In this case,
the committer no longer tries to include the shares in the encrypted
path secrets. Instead, shares are encrypted with the public keys of
the internal nodes belonging to a same (horizontal) level ℓ, that
is chosen so that its number of nodes is greater than or equal to
the maximum value between the minimum number of shares𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑛
and the number of shares induced by the default distribution in
that same tree. In the end, a share is received by all active users
under the same node from that level. The committer (and all users
depending on the same node from levelℓ) is assigned the first share
[𝑠𝑔]0 and the other shares are then attributed from left to right,
from that starting point.
With a broadcast-only protocol, these encrypted shares are joined
to the commit message, which saves the cost of additional signa-
tures. In the server-aided paradigm, each share is sent in a separate
“Share Distribution Message”, which comprises:
• the encrypted share;
• the index of the internal node under whose key the share
is encrypted;
• the sender’s signature.

Chevalier et al.
3.3.3 Commit Message. A commit message with a quarantine ini-
tialization, in the broadcast-only setting, therefore comprises the
following parts (in blue: additional elements compared to a classical
commit message from TreeKEM):
• The committer’s new signed public state𝑝𝛾𝑖+1𝑐 , which in-
cludes the committer’s updated public encryption key𝑝𝑘𝑖+1𝑐 .
• The updated public encryption keys of the committer’s
filtered direct path𝑣𝑝∈P 𝑖+1𝑐 and of the new ghosts𝑢𝑔∈
NG𝑖+1:
(𝑝𝑘𝑖+1
𝑣𝑝)𝑣𝑝∈P𝑖+1𝑐 ||( 𝑝𝑘𝑖+1
𝑔 )𝑢𝑔∈NG𝑖+1
• The leaf indices of the new ghosts whose shares are sent –
in the same order – in this commit message:(ℓ𝑔)𝑢𝑔∈NG𝑖+1.
• With the default share distribution method : For each node
𝑣𝑟∈R 𝑖+1𝑣𝑝 from the resolution of the committer’s copath,
the encryption, under𝑣𝑟 ’s public key, of:
– the adequate path secret 𝑝𝑠𝑖+1𝑣𝑝 (which is the seed of
node𝑣𝑝 ∈ P𝑖+1𝑐 , the closest ancestor of 𝑣𝑟 on the
committer’s direct path);
– a share – dedicated to𝑣𝑟 – for the secret seed𝑠𝑖+1𝑔 of
each of the𝜈 =
NG𝑖+1 new ghosts𝑢𝑔∈NG𝑖+1:

𝐸𝑛𝑐 𝑝𝑘𝑖
𝑣𝑟,𝑝𝑠𝑖+1
𝑣𝑝 ||[ 𝑠𝑖+1
1 ]𝑣𝑟||···||[ 𝑠𝑖+1
𝜈 ]𝑣𝑟
𝑣𝑝∈P𝑖+1
𝑐
𝑣𝑟∈R𝑖+1𝑣𝑝
• With the horizontal share distribution method : The encryp-
tions of path secrets and shares are dissociated. Conse-
quently, for each node𝑣𝑟 from the resolution of the commit-
ter’s copath and each node𝑣ℓ of the tree levelℓ𝑖+1 chosen
for the horizontal distribution, we have:
– the encryption, under 𝑣𝑟 ’s public key, of the corre-
sponding path secret𝑝𝑠𝑖+1𝑣𝑝 ;
– the encryption, under 𝑣ℓ’s public key, of one share
associated with each new ghost𝑢𝑔∈NG𝑖+1.

𝐸𝑛𝑐 𝑝𝑘𝑖
𝑣𝑟,𝑝𝑠𝑖+1
𝑣𝑝
𝑣𝑝∈P𝑖+1
𝑐
𝑣𝑟∈R𝑖+1𝑣𝑝
,

𝐸𝑛𝑐 𝑝𝑘𝑖
𝑣ℓ,[𝑠𝑖+1
1 ]𝑣ℓ||···||[ 𝑠𝑖+1
𝜈 ]𝑣ℓ

𝑣ℓ∈ℓ𝑖+1

3.3.4 Shareholder Rank. In order to avoid redundancy at the stage
of share recovery, at the end of the ghost’s quarantine, we imple-
ment a process to prioritize shareholders that keep the same share,
through the concept of shareholder rank.
An active user who receives shares related to one or several
ghosts’ quarantine(s) is called ashareholder. A group of shareholders
that have received the same share is called a shareholder family
with respect to that share. As every user has a complete view of the
Ratchet Tree, including the location of every other group member,
a shareholder is able to determine – with both share distribution
methods – its shareholder family related to the share it has received,
and its own position within this family.
The shareholder rank corresponds to a shareholder’s location in
its shareholder family, starting from left to right.
3.3.5 Shareholder Share Recording. A shareholder𝑢𝑠 records in its
private state𝑠𝛾𝑠 information about the share(s) it has received, as a
list of tuples of the following form:
• the ghost’s leaf index:ℓ𝑔;
• the ghost’s share received:[𝑠𝑖+1𝑔 ]𝑖𝑛𝑑 ;
• its shareholder rank related to this share:𝑟𝑘 ;
• the index associated with the share:𝑖𝑛𝑑;
• the creation epoch of this share:𝑒𝑖+1.
All these fields, except the ghost’s leaf index and the share itself,
are locally computed by the shareholder, thanks to its complete
view of the Ratchet Tree, with no need of extra communication.
Every time a ghost quarantine expires (either with a successful
reconnection or with a removal from the group – after reaching
the maximum quarantine duration𝛿𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟 ), shareholders delete from
their share recording all the data associated to this ghost.
A shareholder considers that a ghost successfully completed its
quarantine recovery when it receives the second Update proposal10
from that ghost after its reconnection. On the other side, a ghost
removal is notified by a Committer11 in a formal Remove operation
inluded in the commit message.
3.4 Course of a Quarantine
During its quarantine, a ghost remains part of the group, and as
such, receives all handshake and application messages that are
exchanged within the group – except for its own shares.
Quarantine Key Update. When preparing a commit, a committer
checks the age of the ghosts’ quarantine keys thanks to the quar-
antine start epoch field of the ghosts’ public state (cf. Section 3.2).
When a quarantine key gets older than a limit given by a parameter
called𝛿quar-upd, a process of quarantine key update is initiated.
This process is similar to the initialization of a quarantine, except
that the committer in charge of the update may not be the one
who started the quarantine. As in a quarantine initialization, the
committer (called an updater) draws a random secret seed on behalf
of the ghost, generates an encryption key-pair, splits up the seed
into shares that are distributed to the online users. Once again,
these new shareholders may not be the same as the one from the
quarantine start. Consequently, depending on their activity in the
group, active users may record zero, one or several shares associated
to the quarantine of a given ghost.
3.5 End of a Quarantine
When a ghost user𝑢𝑔 finally reconnects at epoch𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑐 , the end-of-
quarantine process is automatically activated.
(1) The former ghost𝑢𝑔 – which, at this stage, does not know
yet that it was quarantined – asks the Delivery Service
of the central server to provide it with the messages that
were buffered during its offline period. Instead, the server
notifies it its quarantined status.
10The reconnecting ghost updates a first time when going back online, and a second
time after receiving all its shares and recovering the associated quarantine keys.
11Committers not only check the seniority of all users’ encryption keys, they also
verify that ghosts do not exceed the maximum quarantine duration𝛿𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟 , thanks to
the quarantine start epoch field in the public state of the latter.

Quarantined-TreeKEM
Figure 4: Timeline of a quarantine with QTK protocol.
(𝑝𝑘𝑖𝑔,𝑠𝑘𝑖𝑔)𝑥 denotes a ghost’s encryption key-pair of gener-
ation𝑖, updated by user 𝑥.𝛿𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑐𝑡 is the duration, after the last
key update, before initiating a quarantine;𝛿𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟 is the length
of this quarantine before removing the ghost, and 𝛿quar-upd
is the period of quarantine key update.
(2) 𝑢𝑔 refreshes its keying material into(𝑝𝑘𝑟𝑒𝑐+1𝑔 ,𝑠𝑘𝑟𝑒𝑐+1𝑔 ). Fol-
lowing this, it transmits to the group a Quarantine End
proposal, which is an Update proposal – used to refresh
a user’s encryption key-pair – that additionally indicates
that its sender has come back online and needs to carry out
a reconnection process.
(3) Upon receiving the Quarantine End proposal, each active
user within the group verifies whether it possesses, in its
private state, one or several quarantine shares linked to the
former ghost and checks its associated shareholder rank(s).
If such shares exist and if the associated shareholder rank
is𝑟𝑘 = 1 , the user, called a primary shareholder, encrypts
them – along with their associated indices – under𝑢𝑔’s new
encryption key and dispatches the ciphertext in a Share
Recovery Message.
(4) After receiving a sufficient number of Share Recovery Mes-
sages sent by the online users at epoch𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑐+1, the former
ghost reconstructs the initial quarantine seed𝑠𝑞1
𝑔 that was
split up at the beginning of its quarantine and recovers the
related quarantine encryption key-pair. If needed, the for-
mer ghost proceeds similarly with intermediate quarantine
encryption keys, whose seeds are also reconstructed with
shares sent at epoch𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑐+1:
∀𝑖∈ J1,𝑘 K,𝑠𝑞𝑖
𝑔 :=𝐶𝑜𝑚𝑏 ([𝑠𝑞𝑖
𝑔]𝑗)𝑗∈I′,I′
(𝑝𝑘𝑞𝑖
𝑔 ,𝑠𝑘𝑞𝑖
𝑔) := KeyGen(1𝜆;𝑠𝑞𝑖
𝑔)
With its quarantine key-pair(s), the former ghost can now
decrypt all the handshake and content messages that were
exchanged during its quarantine period.
(5) If the number of shares received at the previous stage is
not enough to reconstruct one of its quarantine seeds 12,
the former ghost sends to the group a Share Resend pro-
posal, identifying the missing shares with their indices and
creation epochs.
When receiving this proposal, secondary shareholders (with
shareholder rank𝑟𝑘 = 2) for the missing shares send the
12This may happen if too many of the primary shareholders are unresponsive (e.g.
because they are themselves quarantined or even removed from the group) at the time
of the ghost’s reconnection.
appropriate Share Recovery Messages, either in broadcast
or straightly to the former ghost if the Delivery Service
allows it.
If the new batch of Share Recovery Messages is still not
enough to reconstruct the associated seed, this process is
iterated until the seed is reconstructed or the number of
Share Resend proposals reaches a maximum value𝑛𝑚𝑎𝑥
𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑
that is part of the parameters set.
(6) If, despite these attempts, some quarantine seeds cannot be
reconstructed, the content related to the period they cover
(and the one after them, since successive group keys are
linked together) is considered lost for the former ghost. The
parameter𝑛𝑚𝑎𝑥
𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑 therefore represents a necessary tradeoff
between communication cost and availability of the CGKA.
In such a case, the ghost announces to the group its failure
through a Quarantine Recovery Failure Proposal. The next
committer, that takes this proposal into account, then initi-
ates a regular Join procedure to reintegrate that ghost into
the group.
(7) If all the quarantine keys were successfully reconstructed
by the reconnecting ghost, this one is able to catch up with
the group by computing all successive group keys up to
the current epoch. In this case, it asks the Delivery Service,
via a Quarantine Recovery Success message, to forward to it
any pending messages that have been buffered during its
quarantine, such as when an active user reconnects after a
short period of inactivity.
4 Security of QTK protocol
4.1 Security Model
We use the security model from [23], which considers a game-based
CGKA security with a partially active and fully adaptive adversary.
The concept of safe predicate is used to rule out, in the associated
security game, trivial attacks such as the compromise of a group
key for a given epoch by corrupting one of the group members at
that same epoch.
4.1.1 Adversarial Model. In that model, the adversary has full con-
trol over the Delivery Service from the server: therefore it can
arbitrarily block messages and change their delivery order. Fur-
thermore, the adversary is able to corrupt any group member at
any time for a limited period of time defined by the predicates
start-corrupt and end-corrupt. In this case, the private state of
the corrupted users is leaked.
However, [23] restricts the adversary’s ability to impersonate
group members, even in case of corruption. The Authentication
Service provided by the server is consequently assumed secure and
the corruption of a group member neither leaks its private signature
key nor gives the adversary a signature oracle.
This partially-active adversarial model corresponds to the one
used by the MLS standard. TreeKEM uses a mechanism of confir-
mation tag from [7] to mitigate the effect of an active adversary by
forcing it to access both a user’s signature key or oracle and the
current group key in order to impersonate that user. However, this
security mechanism is of no use against a full user’s compromise,

Chevalier et al.
where the adversary accesses both the victim’s signature key or
oracle and its private state. [13] explicitly states that vulnerability
of MLS and consequently advises additional security measures to
protect a user’s signature key:
• compartmentalization between the signature key and other
secret elements, and protection of this key by a secure
enclave in the user’s device;
• rotation of the signature key, with credential revocation.
4.1.2 CGKA Security Game. We state below the definition of CGKA
security, issued from [23] and adapted to include the Propose &
Commit paradigm of TreeKEM and the quarantine from QTK.
Definition 4.1 (Asynchronous CGKA Security). The security for
CGKA is modelled using a game between a challengerC and an
adversaryA. At the beginning of the game, the challenger creates
a group G with identities(𝑢1,··· ,𝑢𝑛). The adversaryA can then
make a sequence of the queries enumerated below, in any arbitrary
order13. At a high level,propose(·, add,·) and propose(·, remove,·)
allow the adversary to control the structure of the group, whereas
the query process allows it to control the message scheduling.
Moreover,the start-upd-quarantine and end-quarantine queries
allow the adversary to arbitrarily quarantine any group member,
while choosing the timing of this quarantine as well as the quaran-
tine initiator14.
(1) propose(𝑢𝑖,𝑎,[𝑢𝑗]): user𝑢𝑖 proposes to implement action
𝑎∈ A⊇{ add, remove, update} regarding user𝑢𝑗 .
(2) commit(𝑢𝑐, P): user𝑢𝑐 implements a list of proposalsP that
it received after the previous commit query, and updates
accordingly its state𝛾𝑐 and its filtered direct path.
(3) start-upd-quarantine(𝑢𝑐,𝑢𝑔): user𝑢𝑐 initiates a quaran-
tine for user𝑢𝑔 or updates𝑢𝑔’s quarantine keys if the latter
is already quarantined. This query necessarily precedes
a commit(𝑢𝑐,·) query associated with user𝑢𝑐, where the
latter distributes the secret shares for𝑢𝑔’s quarantine keys.
(4) end-quarantine(𝑢𝑐,𝑢𝑔): the quarantine of the ghost user
𝑢𝑔 ends. This query necessarily follows a
start-upd-quarantine(·,𝑢𝑔,·) request for that user and
precedes the queries below, during which 𝑢𝑔 updates its
state𝛾𝑔 and recovers the shares of all its quarantine seeds:
• a propose(𝑢𝑔, update) query where the ghost’s key-
ing material is refreshed before the ghost receives the
shares of its quarantine keys;
• a commit(𝑢𝑐,·) query performed by user𝑢𝑐.
(5) process(𝑞,𝑢𝑖): if the query𝑞 belongs to one of the previous
categories, this action forwards the Welcome (𝑊 ) or Com-
mit (𝐶) message to user 𝑢𝑖 which immediately processes
it.
(6) start-corrupt(𝑢𝑖): from now on the private state𝑠𝛾𝑖 of𝑢𝑖
is leaked to the adversary.
13Except for some natural constraints on the queries order, such as ending a corruption
or a quarantine after the start of the process, which are explicitly indicated.
14These queries give the adversary more capabilities in the security game than in the
regular execution of QTK, where the starting and ending epochs of a quarantine are
determined by the inactive user’s behavior.
(7) end-corrupt(𝑢𝑖): ends the leakage of user𝑢𝑖’s private state.
This query necessarily follows a start-corrupt request for
that user.
(8) challenge(𝑞∗): the adversary A picks a query 𝑞∗ corre-
sponding to an action𝑎∗∈ { create-group, commit }. Let
𝑘0 denote the group key that is sampled during this opera-
tion and𝑘1 be a fresh random key. The challenger tosses a
coin𝑏 and – if the safe predicate below is satisfied – the key
𝑘𝑏 is given to the adversary (if the predicate is not satisfied
the adversary gets nothing).
At the end of the game, the adversary outputs a bit ˆ𝑏 and wins
if ˆ𝑏 =𝑏. We call a CGKA scheme(𝑄,𝜖,𝑡)-CGKA-secure if for any
adversaryA making at most𝑄 queries of the form propose, com-
mit, start-upd-quarantine and end-quarantine and running in
time𝑡, it holds:
AdvCGKA(A) :=
 Pr[1←A| 𝑏 = 0]− Pr[1←A| 𝑏 = 1]
≤𝜖
Nota: As the group only evolves, in the security game, by queries
made by the adversary, we designate time points by the queries
associated with them. No adequation can be made between epochs
and queries in the Propose & Commit paradigm, since some of the
latter induce a change of epoch (commit, start-quarantine) and
the others do not.
4.2 Safe Predicate
The safe predicate defines the trivial situations where a challenge
group key cannot be protected from an adversary, in particular
when the adversary corrupts a user that possesses that challenge
group key. Therefore, these situations must be identified and ex-
cluded from the security game that defines the CGKA security.
4.2.1 Proper Critical Window. The first component of the safe
predicate is the (proper) critical window of a user𝑢𝑖, in the view of
a user𝑢∗ at a time point represented by a query𝑞∗. This concept
from [23], that we adapt below to fit a Propose & Commit CGKA,
defines the period during which a group key 𝑘∗ issued by𝑢∗ at
time𝑞∗ can possibly be leaked by𝑢𝑖 if the latter is corrupted at that
time.
Definition 4.2 (Proper Critical Window). Let Π be a Propose &
Commit CGKA protocol as defined in Definition 2.3 and 𝐺∗ the
set of users after processing a query𝑞∗ corresponding to an action
𝑎∗∈ {create-group, commit} of a user𝑢∗∈𝐺∗, that generates a
new group key𝑘∗.
LetS∗
𝑖 ={(𝑝𝑘∗
𝑖,𝑠𝑘∗
𝑖),{(𝑝𝑘∗𝑣,𝑠𝑘∗𝑣)}𝑣∈P(𝑢𝑖)} be the set of encryp-
tion key-pairs associated with a user𝑢𝑖∈𝐺∗ – possibly𝑢∗ itself –
and the nodes in𝑢𝑖’s filtered direct path, according to the view of
𝑢∗ at time𝑞∗.
The proper critical window of𝑢𝑖 in the view of𝑢∗ at time𝑞∗ is
the period of time between two bounds𝑞− <𝑞∗ and𝑞+ >𝑞∗ s.t.:
• 𝑞− is the query that starts to setS∗
𝑖 in𝑢𝑖’s state before𝑞∗, in
the view of𝑢∗. More precisely, this is the earliest commit
query, processed by𝑢∗ and setting:
– either(𝑝𝑘∗
𝑖,𝑠𝑘∗
𝑖) into𝑢𝑖’s state, through an update
proposal;

Quarantined-TreeKEM
Figure 5: Critical window, for a TreeKEM-based CGKA, of a
user𝑢𝑖 in the view of a user 𝑢∗ issuing a challenge group key
𝑘∗ at time𝑞∗.
– or part of{(𝑝𝑘∗𝑣,𝑠𝑘∗𝑣)}𝑣∈P(𝑢𝑖) into𝑢𝑖’s filtered direct
path.
• 𝑞+ is the query that completely invalidatesS∗
𝑖 in𝑢𝑖’s state
after𝑞∗, in the view of𝑢∗. In other terms, it corresponds
to the latest commit processed by𝑢∗, that refreshes the
remaining parts of𝑢𝑖’s state with keys belonging toS∗
𝑖 .
Nota: This definition also applies to CGKAs outside the Propose
& Commit paradigm, by disregarding update proposals that only
refresh a leaf’s keying material. In this case, key rotation is only
realized by commits that update both users’ keying material and
the one of their filtered direct path.
TreeKEM Critical Window. Figure 5 illustrates the notion of criti-
cal window with a generic TreeKEM-based protocol. This window
is wrapped around the group key creation time and is bounded, in
the general case15, by:
• a lower bound𝑞−:𝑢𝑖’s last update before𝑞∗.
• an upper bound𝑞+: its first last update after𝑞∗.
QTK Critical Windows. For the QTK protocol, we consider sep-
arately the cases where the query 𝑞∗ occurs before or during a
ghost’s quarantine. We also distinguish four types of users related
to that ghost, with different critical windows that are detailed in
Figure 6 :
• the ghost user itself;
• the quarantine updater: this is the committer who last
updated the ghost’s quarantine keys before the challenge
query𝑞∗. If𝑞∗ occurs before any quarantine update, the
quarantine updater is the quarantine initiator;
• the ghost’s shareholders: users who detain a share of the
ghost’s quarantine encryption key used at time𝑞∗;
• the other active users. These group members are not share-
holders because they were not part of the group yet when
the ghost’s quarantine key was last updated before𝑞∗.
Figure 7 compares the critical windows of QTK and TreeKEM.
The significant reduction, in QTK, of an inactive user’s proper crit-
ical window (in red) casts the light on the security improvement
brought by QTK protocol. Indeed, even if, with our protocol, a sin-
gle inactive user may still prevent the group from reaching forward
secrecy and post-compromise security, the period during which a
corruption of that inactive user jeopardizes a group key – which
15Specificities of CGKAs may slightly modify these bounds, like in Tainted TreeKEM
[23] where the critical window is not bounded by the update times but by the confir-
mation or rejection time of these updates.
Figure 6: Critical windows, for our QTK protocol, of various
types of users in the view of a user 𝑢∗ issuing a group key
𝑘∗ at time 𝑞∗. Brown crosshatched boxes represent shared
critical windows, specific to QTK protocol.
is precisely what its critical window refers to – is greatly reduced.
The only other way for the adversary to leak the group key is to
corrupt a sufficient number of shareholders associated with that
ghost; this risk is evaluated by the concept ofshared critical window
(cf. below).
Case 1: 𝑞∗ precedes the ghost’s quarantine. In that case, there
are no changes from the standard TreeKEM protocol. Active users
have a regular critical window around the challenge query𝑞∗, as
in Figure 5.
A ghost’s critical window extends from its last key update be-
fore𝑞∗ to the one following this query, which occurs at its reconnec-
tion time at the end of its quarantine; in this case, this long critical
window is similar to the one of an inactive user with TreeKEM. This
issue can be partially solved, both in TreeKEM and in QTK, by forc-
ing the messaging application of the inactive user to locally delete,
after some time, the secret elements stored in its local state16.
Case 2:𝑞∗ occurs within the ghost’s quarantine. The critical win-
dows of the users related to the ghost𝑢𝑔 are defined as follows:
16This operation does not require the inactive user to log in, but its messaging appli-
cation must at least run in the background, which cannot be imposed to all inactive
users.

Chevalier et al.
• Ghost user: the only critical window of a ghost starts at its
reconnection after a quarantine (query𝑞ghost
rec ), when it re-
covers all the shares associated with its encryption key used
at time𝑞∗. This window closes at the former ghost’s follow-
ing update (𝑞ghost
upd-after-rec), which overwrites the sensitive
former ghost’s local state. As the share recovery may last
for several epochs, depending on the activity status of the
shareholders during this reconnection stage, the window
size may vary between one and several epochs.
However, if a ghost never reconnects until its reaches its
quarantine maximum period 𝛿𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟 and is removed from
the group, the aforementioned critical window does not
exist.
• Shareholders: beside their proper critical window that
stems from their status of active user, these users have a
shared critical window defined and detailed below.
• Quarantine updater: its critical window only lasts during
the preparation of the commit that is joined with the quaran-
tine key update (from time 𝑞updater
quar-upd to
𝑞updater
commit-after-quar-upd). Once the commit message is sent, the
quarantine updater deletes all sensitive information from
its state.
• Active users: non-shareholder active users at time𝑞∗ have
a critical window similar to any TreeKEM-based CGKA pro-
tocol, centered around𝑞∗ and bounded by theprop-update
queries preceding and following that time point. These ac-
tive users may include the quarantine updater related to𝑞∗
as well as most of the shareholders17.
Nota: To improve the security of QTK regarding the quaran-
tine updater, we present in Appendix B an enhancement called
jointly-implemented quarantine, where the ghost’s quarantine keys
are commonly generated by several users that only have a partial
knowledge of these sensitive data. Consequently, the proper win-
dow of a single quarantine updater is replaced by several shared
windows, which improves security.
4.2.2 Shared Critical Window. In the context of QTK protocol,
which is associated to a secret sharing scheme which protects the
secret information by splitting it into shares, the notion of proper
critical window appears insufficient to implement the safe predicate.
We therefore define hereunder the concept ofshared critical win-
dow, that represents the period during which a user (shareholder)
possesses shares of a secret information that can compromise the
group key𝑘∗. Hence, the security cannot be evaluated anymore
with the safety of a single user; instead we must determine whether
a sufficient number of shareholders associated with the same secret
have remained uncorrupted as long as they held these shares.
Definition 4.3 (Shared Critical Window). Let Π be the QTK proto-
col associated with a(𝑡,𝑚)-perfect secret sharing scheme,𝐺∗ the
set of users after processing a query𝑞∗ corresponding to an action
𝑎∗ ∈ {create-group, commit} of a user𝑢∗∈𝐺∗, that generates a
new group key𝑘∗.
17Indeed, some shareholders associated with a ghost, and even its quarantine initiator
or updater(s), may have become inactive at the time of a subsequent challenge request.
Figure 7: Compared critical windows, between TreeKEM and
QTK, for the different types of users in a group, in the view
of user𝑢∗ issuing a group key𝑘∗ at time𝑞∗. The crosshatched
brown box represents a shared critical window (cf. Defini-
tion 4.3), more secure than a proper one.
The shared critical window of a shareholder𝑢𝑠∈𝐺∗ (possibly
𝑢∗ itself) related to a ghost user𝑢𝑔 in the view of𝑢∗ at time𝑞∗, is
the period of time during which𝑢𝑠 holds a share of a quarantine
secret key that leads to the challenge group key𝑘∗.
Consequently, the corruption of at least 𝑡 shareholders (from
different shareholder families w.r.t that share collection) related to
a ghost𝑢𝑔 results in the compromise of the group key𝑘∗ generated
by𝑢∗ at time𝑞∗.
In the case of our QTK protocol, a shareholder of a ghost𝑢𝑔
has a shared critical window that:
• starts at the commit associated with 𝑢𝑔’s last quarantine
key update before𝑞∗:𝑞updater
commit-after-quar-upd;
• ends at the shareholder’s update following𝑢𝑔’s quarantine
end:𝑞shareholder
upd-after-rec.
4.2.3 Safe Group Key. We adapt for the QTK protocol the safe
predicate concept from [23], that states the conditions needed for a
group key to be safe, by including in these conditions the shared
security implied by the above-mentioned shared critical window.
Definition 4.4 (Safe Predicate with a Shared Critical Window). Let
Π be a QTK protocol associated with a(𝑡,𝑚)-perfect secret sharing
scheme. Let𝑘∗ be a group key generated in an action𝑎∗ ∈ {create-
group, commit} at time 𝑞∗∈
q
𝑞1,𝑞𝑄
y
and let𝐺∗ be the set of
users ending up in the group after processing query𝑞∗, as viewed
by the generating user𝑢∗.
Moreover, let us consider an arbitrary number of ghost users
(𝑢𝑔∈G∗) quarantined at time𝑞∗, with their associated sharehold-
ers.
Then the challenge group key𝑘∗ is considered safe if the follow-
ing two statements are fulfilled:
• No user from the group (including𝑢∗ itself) has been cor-
rupted in its proper critical window at time𝑞∗ in the view
of𝑢∗;

Quarantined-TreeKEM
• For each ghost𝑢𝑔𝑖 quarantined at time𝑞∗, strictly less than
𝑡 of its shareholders from different shareholder families, i.e.
with different shares, have been corrupted in their shared
critical windows at time𝑞∗ in the view of𝑢∗.
4.3 CGKA Security Proof for QTK
4.3.1 Overview. The security proof of our protocol relies on the one
from Tainted TreeKEM in [23]. This work defines the safe predicate
and the challenge graph (cf. below) associated with their protocol
and proves in a lemma – similar to our Lemma 4.5 beneath – that
the respect of the safe predicate implies no leakage of any secret
element from that challenge graph. Finally, it uses the concept of
Generalized Selective Decryption (GSD), adapted from [21], to turn
the selective CGKA security of Tainted TreeKEM into an adaptive
security in the Random Oracle Model.
As stated in [23], the part of that proof which uses GSD can be
generalized to other CGKAs, such as TreeKEM or QTK, since the
demonstration does not depend on the structure of the protocol’s
CGKA graph but only on its maximum number of nodes.
Consequently, our security proof for QTK consists in determin-
ing the safe predicate (already done in Section 4.2) and the challenge
graph corresponding to our protocol, and proving in Lemma 4.5
that no secret information from that challenge graph can lead to
the leakage of the challenge group key. These stages are sufficient
to prove the CGKA security of our protocol.
4.3.2 CGKA and Challenge Graphs. We must firstly define the
CGKA graph, adapted from [23], which represents the evolution
of the CGKA’s Ratchet Tree throughout the security experiment.
This graph is therefore the juxtaposition of different generations
of nodes from the Ratchet Tree, partially superposed when some
nodes remain unchanged from one epoch – i.e. one query in the
security experiment – to another. The edges of the CGKA graph are
either the derivations of the nodes’ secret seeds or the public-key
encryption of these seeds.
The challenge graph related to a challenge group key 𝑘∗, also
issued from [23], is the sub-graph of the CGKA graph composed
of all nodes – internal or leaves – that contain secret information
permitting to recover that challenge group key.
With a standard CGKA such as TreeKEM, the challenge graph
for a group in a consistent state 18 (at the time of the challenge
query𝑞∗) simply consists in the Ratchet Tree at time 𝑞∗. When
the group view is in inconsistent state, the challenge graph is the
Ratchet Tree at time𝑞∗ in the view of committer𝑢∗𝑐 which generated
the challenge group key (cf. [23]).
The challenge graph for QTK, detailed in Figure 8, differs from
that of TreeKEM by:
• the addition of two nodes, corresponding to the quarantine
updater and to the reconnecting ghost;
• the particular case of the challenge ghost node, which corre-
sponds to the last updated ghost’s quarantine keys before
𝑞∗. This node cannot be corrupted directly by the adversary
in the CGKA security experiment. Instead, its corruption
occurs if a sufficient number of its associated shareholders
are themselves corrupted.
18Consistency means that all users in the group have the same view of the Ratchet
Tree at a precise moment.
Figure 8: CGKA, challenge and quarantine graphs for QTK
protocol.
To illustrate the latter point, we define another sub-graph of the
CGKA graph called the Quarantine Graph, related to a challenge
group key𝑘∗. That graph comprises all the nodes from the CGKA
graph that record a share related to the challenge ghost node.
Lemma 4.5. For any safe challenge group key in QTK, i.e. for
which the safe predicate is respected, it holds that none of the seeds
and secret keys in the challenge graph are leaked to the adversary via
user corruptions.
Proof. We proceed with a proof by contradiction, by showing –
with a separate analysis for each user type – that the leakage of the
challenge key, resulting from the leakage of a secret element from
its challenge graph, implies the violation of the safe predicate for
the concerned user.
The case of active users from the challenge graph and internal
nodes ancestors of these active users is similar to that of TreeKEM:
as the critical window of these users for the challenge group key
𝑘∗ is centered on the challenge query 𝑞∗ and bounded by these
users’ key updates – which refresh the leaves and blank their paths
–, a secret key or seed that may lead to the challenge group key
is recorded in these users’ private states only during their critical
window. Consequently, a leakage of such sensitive elements can be
generated only by corrupting one of these users during its critical
window, which is possible only by contradicting the safe predicate.
Similarly, a ghost user only records secret elements associated
with the challenge group key at its reconnection time, which also
corresponds to its critical window. This is also the case for the
quarantine updater, which has knowledge of the ghost’s secret key
associated with the challenge group key only when creating the
commit in which the shares are sent, which also corresponds to its
critical window.
A specific feature of QTK is the case of the share-holding nodes.
Regarding the shareholders (i.e. the share-holding leaves), their
shared critical window extends from the moment they receive the
shares to their (leaf) update following the ghost reconnection –
where they delete these shares. A leakage of the challenge group key
would imply to corrupt a sufficient number of them (with respect to
the secret sharing recovery threshold) during their shared critical
window, which is also a violation of the safe predicate.
As a leaf update is always associated with the blanking of the
leaf’s direct path, the shareholders’ update that constitutes the

Chevalier et al.
upper bound of their critical window deletes in their internal state
the private keys and seeds of the share-holding internal nodes above
them. Consequently, the sensitive elements in these internal nodes
cannot be reached by the adversary unless by corrupting one of
their descendant shareholders during its critical window, which
also contradicts the safe predicate.
Theorem 4.6 (QTK CGKA Security). If the encryption scheme in
QTK is( ˜𝜖,𝑡)-IND-CPA-secure and if the cryptographic hash functions
used to derive the seeds are modelled as random oracles, then this
CGKA is(𝑄,𝜖,𝑡)-CGKA-secure, with𝑄 the number of queries in the
security game,𝑛 the number of users in the group and𝜖 = ˜𝜖·8(𝑛𝑄)2+
𝑛𝑒𝑔𝑙.
Proof. The proof of this theorem follows in a straightforward
manner Theorem 3 and Theorem 4 from [ 23], which are used to
prove the CGKA security of Tainted TreeKEM but are also appli-
cable to other CGKAs such as TreeKEM and QTK. An overview of
the proof for Tainted TreeKEM [23] is detailed in Appendix A.2.
The security bound ˜𝜖 of QTK originates from the equation of
Theorem 3 which gives 𝜖 = 2𝑁 2 ˜𝜖+ 𝑚𝑁
2ℓ−1 = 2𝑁 2 ˜𝜖+𝑛𝑒𝑔𝑙, with 𝑁
the number of nodes in the CGKA graph,𝑚 the number of oracle
queries to the random oracle andℓ the length of the secret seeds in
the CGKA graph.
For𝑄 queries in the CGKA security experiment, the CGKA graph
has a size bounded as 𝑁 < 2𝑛𝑄 (since the Ratchet Tree for 𝑛
users has at most 2𝑛− 1 nodes and the CGKA in the worst case is
the juxtaposition of𝑄 separate Ratchet Trees). This upper bound
determines the security factor𝜖 = ˜𝜖· 8(𝑛𝑄)2+𝑛𝑒𝑔𝑙 given above.
5 Performance
We display here the performance of our QTK protocol, notably
some considerations (further detailed in Appendix C) on the proto-
col’s availability – i.e. the probability to reconstruct with success a
quarantine key even in presence of inactive shareholders – as well
as a broad estimation of the computational, storage and commu-
nication costs induced by a quarantine. The latter, which appears
to be the crucial factor for our protocol, is also deeply analyzed
in Appendix D.
5.1 Availability of our Quarantine Mechanism
At a ghost’s reconnection after a quarantine, the reconstruction
of its quarantine key(s) requires that this ghost recovers a number
of shares at least as high as the secret sharing threshold that was
set by the quarantine initiator (and updater(s)) when splitting the
quarantine seed(s). Nevertheless, because the shareholders associ-
ated with that ghost may not be active at the reconnection time
– either because they themselves have been quarantined or with-
drawn from the group in the meantime, or because they take too
long to respond to the reconnecting ghost –, there is no guarantee
that the former ghost is able to reconstruct its quarantine key(s)
and therefore recover all the content of its offline period.
We have thus analyzed in detail in Appendix C the availability
of the quarantine mechanism used by QTK, with both the default
and the horizontal share distribution methods, assuming that any
shareholder has an equal probability𝑝 to appear unavailable when
asked to provide the reconnecting ghost with its shares. We present
below the main results of that study.
5.1.1 Availability in a Perfect Ratchet Tree. The first step of our
analysis deals with perfect Ratchet Trees, i.e. triangular binary trees
whose leaves are all located at the same level and are all attributed
to a user. In this simplified paradigm, we show that the failure
probability of a quarantine key reconstruction:
• decreases super-exponentially with the height ℎ of the
Ratchet Tree – which determines the number of shareholder
families – for the default share distribution (see the graphs
from Figure 12);
• decreases super-exponentially with the share distribution
levelℓ and with the tree heightℎ, for the horizontal distri-
bution.
Furthermore, for a Ratchet Tree of given height, the failure proba-
bility increases at least exponentially along with the threshold𝑡.
Table 1 sums up the quarantine failure probability with the two
share distribution methods, for groups of various sizes correspond-
ing to the number of users one may expect in real use-cases of MLS
(𝑛∈
q
23, 216y
). In this instance, the unavailability probability of a
shareholder is set to the very conservative value of𝑝 = 1
2 . Even in
that unfavorable case, our results (detailed in Appendix C.1.2 and
Appendix C.1.3) show that:
• setting the secret sharing threshold to half the number of
shares (𝑡 =
𝑚
2

) is sufficient to yield a failure probability
that remains under 2−10 in every case, and even 2−20 for
groups over 28 users;
• when the size of the group falls under 26 users, it becomes
more interesting to use the horizontal distribution method
in order to keep an acceptable 19 failure probability
Pr

𝑈(𝑡 =
𝑚
2

)

≤ 2−(𝛿=10).
5.1.2 Availability in a Non-Perfect Tree. When the Ratchet Tree
is not perfect, which is usually the case in real life, the structure
of the tree has a significant impact on the share distribution and,
therefore, on the availability of our protocol. In particular, our
analysis of Appendix C.2 relies on the notion of depth-balance
issued from [17], which represents the vertical distribution of the
tree leaves. Our results, for the default share distribution, show the
following points.
Well-structured trees (called depth-balanced, that have at most
one gap level between all their leaves) with2𝑘 <𝑛 < 2𝑘+1(𝑘∈ N∗)
leaves, have a probability failure upper-bounded by that of the
perfect tree𝑇𝑝 bearing precisely 2𝑘 leaves, as long as the secret
sharing threshold in the depth-balanced tree remains identical to
the one from𝑇𝑝:𝑡𝑏𝑎𝑙 =𝑡𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑓 =
l
𝑘
2
m
.
Non-depth-balanced trees cannot be analyzed exhaustively due
to the great diversity of their possible structures. Therefore, we
have focused on the worst-case of what we call thecomb tree (cf. Fig-
ure 15), which has the most vertically-stretched structure, with a
heightℎ =𝑛− 1 for𝑛 leaves, and one leaf at each level (except for
the bottom level that has two leaves). In such a tree, the location
19This limit of 26 users depends not only on the value of the threshold but also on the
availability parameter𝛿 chosen at the applicative level. The two parameters𝛿 = 10
and𝛿 = 20 mentioned in this paper correspond to realistic values set for illustrative
purposes.

Quarantined-TreeKEM
Table 1: Upper bounds on the failure probabilities of the
two share distribution methods in a perfect Ratchet Tree.
The individual unavailability probability of a shareholder is
𝑝 = 1
2 ; the level ℓ of the horizontal distribution is the highest
value that yields a number of shares 𝑚 = Max{log2(𝑛),𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑛 =
4}. The secret sharing threshold is set to 𝑡 =
𝑚
2

.
Tree
Height Default Share Distribution Horizontal Share Distribution
ℎ 𝑚 𝑡 Failure Prob.
Up. Bound 𝑚 𝑡 Failure Prob.
Up. Bound
3 3 2 0.2 4 2 0.07
4 4 2 2−7 4 2 2−10
5 5 3 2−7 8 4 2−14
6 6 3 2−15 8 4 2−34
7 7 4 2−15 8 4 2−74
8 8 4 2−31 8 4 2−154
9 9 5 2−31 16 8 2−275
10 10 5 2−63 16 8 2−563
11 11 6 2−63 16 8 2−1,136
12 12 6 2−127 16 8 2−2,288
13 13 7 2−127 16 8 2−4,592
14 14 7 2−255 16 8 2−9,200
15 15 8 2−255 16 8 2−18,416
16 16 8 2−511 16 8 2−36,848
of the quarantine initiator distributing the shares in the tree is a
primordial factor. We show in Appendix C.2 that as long as the
initiator is in the lower two-thirds of the tree, keeping the thresh-
old𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑏 = 𝑡𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑓 =
l
𝑘
2
m
maintains the failure probability of the
comb tree with 2𝑘 <𝑛 < 2𝑘+1 leaves upper-bounded by that of the
smaller perfect tree𝑇𝑝 with 2𝑘 leaves. In the few cases of a quaran-
tine initiator located in the upper part of an unstructured tree, the
threshold should be lowered or the horizontal share distribution
should be used instead of the default one.
5.2 Computational and Storage Costs
5.2.1 Computational Cost. The computational overhead induced
by a quarantine comes from two processes:
• The secret sharing of the quarantine seed and the construc-
tion of the modified commit message by the committer that
initiates or updates that quarantine;
• The reconstruction by the reconnecting ghost of its quar-
antine key(s), at the end of its quarantine.
To assess this cost, we have carried out a simulation with an
open-source implementation we have developed, forked from an
official MLS library in Kotlin [24], on a laptop Intel(R) Core(TM)
i7-10510U CPU @1.80GHz. The secret sharing algorithm used for
this experiment is Shamir secret sharing scheme.
The results from Table 2 show that even with our non-fully opti-
mized proof-of-concept implementation, the computational cost of
a quarantine – with the default share distribution – appears limited
compared to the one of a commit with MLS. Indeed, in QTK, a quar-
antine has a computational cost similar to that of a proposal-empty
Table 2: Computational costs of a quarantine compared to
that of a regular commit in MLS.
Number of MLS
commit
Quarantine init./update Quarantine
key
reconstruct.users
𝑛
shares
𝑚
Single
ghost
Extra
ghost
8 3 7 ms 13 ms 10 ms 0.6 ms
32 5 13 ms 17 ms 10 ms 1.3 ms
128 7 25 ms 20 ms 15 ms 2.6 ms
1024 10 230 ms 120 ms 120 ms 3.5 ms
commit from MLS20 in small groups, and around half the cost of
such a commit in large groups, knowing that generating a commit
message is less computationally costly than other operations that
MLS requires each member to carry out – such as keeping up-to-
date, for every message exchanged within the group, two ratchet
chains for each one of the𝑛− 1 peers in a group of𝑛 members.
We note that when a commit involves several concurrent quar-
antines, the cost associated with each ghost decreases thanks to the
factorization of the computations. Furthermore, the computational
cost of our protocol only grows logarithmically with the number of
users, since it mainly depends on the number of shares to distribute
within the Ratchet Tree, along the quarantine initiator’s direct path
that has a logarithmic length.
5.2.2 Storage Cost. As detailed in Section 3.3.5, a shareholder as-
sociated with a ghost’s quarantine has in its private state additional
fields compared to TreeKEM, that imply the following extra-storage:
• the ghost’s leaf index (uint32): 4 bytes;
• the ghost’s share(s) received: 32 bytes per share;
• its shareholder rank related to the share(s) (uint32): 4 bytes
per share;
• the index associated with the share(s) (uint8): 1 byte per
share;
• the creation epoch of the share(s) (uint32): 4 bytes per share.
Therefore, a ghost’s quarantine induces a minimum storage cost of
45 bytes for every one of its shareholders, with extra 41 bytes for
any additional share related to an updated quarantine key of that
same ghost.
For comparison, the public state of a leaf in MLS has – with
our choice of parameters (cf. the field leafNode in Table 4) – a size
ranging from more than 800 bytes to almost 2 kB in respectively
the classical and the post-quantum settings. Furthermore, every
user in MLS must additionally store the public states of the internal
nodes from the Ratchet Tree, the private states of the nodes in its
direct path and the secret seeds issued from the two ratchet chains
attributed to that user’s𝑛− 1 peers, which is far more important
than the few extra bytes added by a quarantine in QTK.
The two analyses above highlight the fact that the computational
and storage overheads of a quarantine are in practice very limited
20The commit from MLS whose computational cost is displayed in Table 2 is associated
with no proposals. This particular case is allowed by the MLS standard in order to
update the committer’s path; however, commits are usually related to proposals, which
requires much more computations by the committer in order to process these proposals
and implement them in the modified Ratchet Tree.

Chevalier et al.
compared to the heavy computational and storage requirements of
the regular MLS protocol. Consequently, it seems useful to study
more deeply the communication cost of QTK, that appears to be
the bottleneck of our protocol in terms of cost.
5.3 Communication Cost
We study here the communication costper user induced by a single
ghost’s quarantine, in the broadcast-only and the server-aided set-
tings. This cost is measured as the size of the exchanged messages,
counted once between the sender and the Delivery Service, and
either𝑛− 1 times (in case of a broadcasted message) or once (in
case of a message sent individually to its recipient) between the
Delivery Service and the other users, the total being finally divided
by the number𝑛 of users.
5.3.1 Factors of the Communication Cost. The factors influencing
the communication cost of a quarantine can be sorted as follows:
• the algorithms used to ensure the HPKE and digital signa-
ture functionalities;
• the features of the user group (number of users and struc-
ture of the Ratchet Tree), issued from the group history;
• the quarantine parameters (maximum duration of a quar-
antine, frequency of quarantine key update, secret sharing
threshold...);
• some encoding settings (integer encoding).
In our instance, we consider two main paradigms that influence
the choice of algorithms: the classical framework, where our
protocol only implements pre-quantum encryption and signature
algorithms, and the post-quantum framework which uses post-
quantum encryption but keeps a classical signature primitive.
We also consider groups of various sizes, up to 216 = 65, 536
users, as the MLS protocol specifications indicate the need to scale
up to this order of magnitude. We point out that the number of
users has various – and potentially opposite – consequences on a
quarantine communication cost in the broadcast-only setting :
• Regarding the initialization and update cost , the larger
the group, the higher the number of shares that have to
be distributed within the group. However, as this number
grows logarithmically with the number of users (for a per-
fect binary tree), the consequences on the communication
cost are quite negligible.
On the other side, large groups ensure that thedefault share
distribution method, far more efficient than the horizontal
one, can be implemented. With that default method, the
communication cost of a quarantine initialization reaches
the best case of the communication cost range computed
in Appendix D.1.1.
• Regarding the quarantine end cost, the larger the group,
the more unlikely shareholders keep several shares for the
ghost with the same shareholder rank 21. Consequently,
it increases the number of separate Share Recovery Mes-
sages, which – especially due to the particularly important
21Indeed, it implies that the shareholder keeps the same relative position w.r.t. different
quarantine updaters chosen at random among all users; this event appears unlikely
with a large number of users.
post-quantum encryption cost – impacts all the more the
communication cost. Large groups thus tend to have a quar-
antine end communication cost close to the worst case (i.e.
the highest value) of the range displayed in Table 3.
Consequently, the broadcast-only average case column in Table 3
corresponds to the most-likely communication cost in large groups,
that is the combination of:
• the best-case quarantine initialization communication cost;
• the worst-case quarantine ending communication cost.
5.3.2 Analysis of the Results. For lack of space, the theoretical
bounds of the communication cost, in the two aforementioned
settings, and the determination of realistic concrete parameters are
left to Appendix D. We focus in this part on the results of these
computations, displayed in Table 3 for both the classical and the
post-quantum frameworks.
We compare this communication cost with the one of a user
remained active at the same period and which updates its keying
material (by sending Update proposals of size|𝑢𝑝𝑑|) with a renewal
period of𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑 .
Table 3: Practical communication cost per user of a ghost’s
quarantine, with the parameters from Table 4. The broadcast-
only average column, in bold, represents the most-likely case
in large groups.
Quar. Group Quarantine Communication Cost per User (kB)
Length Size Broadcast-Only Server-Aided Active
Best Average Worst Best Worst User
7𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑
8 1.9 – 2.5 – 4.2 1.9 – 2.6
5.8128 3.0 – 6.7 – 8.2 1.6 – 2.2
65,536 5.2 – 13.7 – 17.0 1.6 – 2.5
14𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑
8 2.5 – 3.6 – 6.6 2.6 – 3.7
11.6128 4.2 – 11.0 – 13.5 2.2 – 3.1
65,536 7.8 – 23.2 – 29.0 2.1 – 3.7
28𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑
8 4.0 – 6.2 – 12.1 4.3 – 6.4
23.2128 7.2 – 20.9 – 26.0 3.5 – 5.3
65,536 13.9 – 45.4 – 57.1 3.4 – 6.3
(a) Classical Setting
Quar. Group Quarantine Communication Cost per User (kB)
Length Size Broadcast-Only Server-Aided Active
Best Average Worst Best Worst User
7𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑
8 9.8 – 23.1 – 35.3 13.4 – 16.8
13.9128 12.9 – 42.0 – 73.1 11.9 – 12.9
65,536 19.4 – 87.1 – 158.0 11.6 – 12.5
14𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑
8 13.9 – 37.1 – 60.1 21.6 – 27.7
27.7128 17.7 – 71.9 – 126.2 19.2 – 20.9
65,536 25.5 – 150.7 – 274.8 18.7 – 20.3
28𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑
8 23.4 – 69.9 – 118.1 40.5 – 53.3
55.5128 28.7 – 141.7 – 250.3 36.4 – 39.7
65,536 39.6 – 299.3 – 547.4 35.5 – 38.4
(b) Post-Quantum Setting

Quarantined-TreeKEM
Table 3 highlights the fact that the communication overhead
of a quarantine remains quite limited, especially in the classical
setting that benefits from lighter encryption schemes than the
post-quantum one. As expected, the latter has a cost that largely
exceeds that of the former. However, even in the worst case (a long
quarantine, in a large group and in the post-quantum framework),
the overhead of around 500 kB does not sound unrealistic given the
important communication cost that a CGKA already has.
We also underline that, assuming that the frequency of update
of a quarantine key is lower than that of an active user (𝛿quar-upd =
2𝛿upd), and according to the parameters at use, the communication
cost of a quarantine may even be lower than that of an active user.
In particular, this is the case in most settings in the server-aided
paradigm, as shown by Table 3.
References
[1] 2023. WhatsApp Encryption Overview. Technical White Paper. WhatsApp Inc.
https://www.whatsapp.com/security/WhatsApp-Security-Whitepaper.pdf
[2] Joël Alwen, Benedikt Auerbach, Miguel Cueto Noval, Karen Klein, Guillermo
Pascual-Perez, and Krzyzstof Pietrzak. 2024. DeCAF: Decentralizable CGKA with
Fast Healing. In SCN 24: 14th International Conference on Security in Communica-
tion Networks, Part II (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 14974) , Clemente
Galdi and Duong Hieu Phan (Eds.). Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Amalfi, Italy,
294–313. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-71073-5_14
[3] Joël Alwen, Benedikt Auerbach, Miguel Cueto Noval, Karen Klein, Guillermo
Pascual-Perez, Krzysztof Pietrzak, and Michael Walter. 2022. CoCoA: Concur-
rent Continuous Group Key Agreement. In Advances in Cryptology – EURO-
CRYPT 2022, Part II (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 13276) , Orr Dunkel-
man and Stefan Dziembowski (Eds.). Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Trondheim,
Norway, 815–844. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-07085-3_28
[4] Joël Alwen, Sandro Coretti, Yevgeniy Dodis, and Yiannis Tselekounis. 2020.
Security Analysis and Improvements for the IETF MLS Standard for Group
Messaging. In Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2020, Part I (Lecture Notes
in Computer Science, Vol. 12170) , Daniele Micciancio and Thomas Ristenpart
(Eds.). Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, 248–277. https:
//doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-56784-2_9
[5] Joël Alwen, Sandro Coretti, Yevgeniy Dodis, and Yiannis Tselekounis. 2021.
Modular Design of Secure Group Messaging Protocols and the Security of MLS.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/1083. https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1083
[6] Joël Alwen, Dominik Hartmann, Eike Kiltz, and Marta Mularczyk. 2022. Server-
Aided Continuous Group Key Agreement. In ACM CCS 2022: 29th Conference
on Computer and Communications Security , Heng Yin, Angelos Stavrou, Cas
Cremers, and Elaine Shi (Eds.). ACM Press, Los Angeles, CA, USA, 69–82. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3548606.3560632
[7] Joël Alwen, Daniel Jost, and Marta Mularczyk. 2022. On the Insider Security of
MLS. In Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2022, Part II (Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, Vol. 13508) , Yevgeniy Dodis and Thomas Shrimpton (Eds.). Springer,
Cham, Switzerland, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, 34–68. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-031-15979-4_2
[8] Joël Alwen, Marta Mularczyk, and Yiannis Tselekounis. 2023. Fork-Resilient
Continuous Group Key Agreement. In Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2023,
Part IV (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 14084) , Helena Handschuh and
Anna Lysyanskaya (Eds.). Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Santa Barbara, CA, USA,
396–429. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38551-3_13
[9] Richard Barnes, Benjamin Beurdouche, Jon Millican, Emad Omara, Katriel Cohn-
Gordon, and Raphael Robert. 2019. The Messaging Layer Security (MLS) Protocol .
Internet-Draft draft-ietf-mls-protocol-08. Internet Engineering Task Force. https:
//datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mls-protocol/08/ Work in Progress.
[10] Richard Barnes, Benjamin Beurdouche, Raphael Robert, Jon Millican, Emad
Omara, and Katriel Cohn-Gordon. 2023. The Messaging Layer Security (MLS)
Protocol. RFC 9420. https://doi.org/10.17487/RFC9420
[11] Richard Barnes, Karthikeyan Bhargavan, Benjamin Lipp, and Christopher A.
Wood. 2022. Hybrid Public Key Encryption. RFC 9180. https://doi.org/10.17487/
RFC9180
[12] Daniel J. Bernstein. 2006. Curve25519: New Diffie-Hellman Speed Records. In
PKC 2006: 9th International Conference on Theory and Practice of Public Key
Cryptography (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 3958) , Moti Yung, Yev-
geniy Dodis, Aggelos Kiayias, and Tal Malkin (Eds.). Springer Berlin Heidelberg,
Germany, New York, NY, USA, 207–228. https://doi.org/10.1007/11745853_14
[13] Benjamin Beurdouche, Eric Rescorla, Emad Omara, Srinivas Inguva, and Alan
Duric. 2024. The Messaging Layer Security (MLS) Architecture. Internet-Draft draft-
ietf-mls-architecture-13. Internet Engineering Task Force. https://datatracker.
ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mls-architecture/13/ Work in Progress.
[14] Karthikeyan Bhargavan, Richard Barnes, and Eric Rescorla. 2018. TreeKEM:
Asynchronous Decentralized Key Management for Large Dynamic Groups A pro-
tocol proposal for Messaging Layer Security (MLS) . Research Report. Inria Paris.
https://inria.hal.science/hal-02425247
[15] Dan Boneh and Victor Shoup. 2023. A Graduate Course in Applied Cryptography .
http://toc.cryptobook.us/
[16] Joppe Bos, Léo Ducas, Eike Kiltz, Tancrède Lepoint, Vadim Lyubashevsky, John M.
Schanck, Peter Schwabe, and Damien Stehlé. 2017. CRYSTALS – Kyber: a CCA-
secure module-lattice-based KEM. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2017/634.
https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/634
[17] Céline Chevalier, Guirec Lebrun, Ange Martinelli, and Jérôme Plût. 2024. The
Art of Bonsai: How Well-Shaped Trees Improve the Communication Cost of
MLS. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2024/746. (2024). https://eprint.iacr.org/
2024/746 https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/746.
[18] Katriel Cohn-Gordon, Cas Cremers, Luke Garratt, Jon Millican, and Kevin
Milner. 2018. On Ends-to-Ends Encryption: Asynchronous Group Messaging
with Strong Security Guarantees. In ACM CCS 2018: 25th Conference on Com-
puter and Communications Security , David Lie, Mohammad Mannan, Michael
Backes, and XiaoFeng Wang (Eds.). ACM Press, Toronto, ON, Canada, 1802–1819.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3243734.3243747
[19] Julien Devigne, Céline Duguey, and Pierre-Alain Fouque. 2021. MLS Group
Messaging: How Zero-Knowledge Can Secure Updates. In ESORICS 2021: 26th
European Symposium on Research in Computer Security, Part II (Lecture Notes
in Computer Science, Vol. 12973) , Elisa Bertino, Haya Shulman, and Michael
Waidner (Eds.). Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Darmstadt, Germany, 587–607.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-88428-4_29
[20] Keitaro Hashimoto, Shuichi Katsumata, Eamonn Postlethwaite, Thomas Prest,
and Bas Westerbaan. 2021. A Concrete Treatment of Efficient Continuous Group
Key Agreement via Multi-Recipient PKEs. In ACM CCS 2021: 28th Conference on
Computer and Communications Security , Giovanni Vigna and Elaine Shi (Eds.).
ACM Press, Virtual Event, Republic of Korea, 1441–1462. https://doi.org/10.
1145/3460120.3484817
[21] Zahra Jafargholi, Chethan Kamath, Karen Klein, Ilan Komargodski, Krzysztof
Pietrzak, and Daniel Wichs. 2017. Be Adaptive, Avoid Overcommitting. In Ad-
vances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2017, Part I (Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
Vol. 10401), Jonathan Katz and Hovav Shacham (Eds.). Springer, Cham, Switzer-
land, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, 133–163. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-63688-
7_5
[22] Daniel Jost, Ueli Maurer, and Marta Mularczyk. 2019. Efficient Ratcheting:
Almost-Optimal Guarantees for Secure Messaging. In Advances in Cryptology
– EUROCRYPT 2019, Part I (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 11476) , Yu-
val Ishai and Vincent Rijmen (Eds.). Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Darmstadt,
Germany, 159–188. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17653-2_6
[23] Karen Klein, Guillermo Pascual-Perez, Michael Walter, Chethan Kamath, Mar-
garita Capretto, Miguel Cueto, Ilia Markov, Michelle Yeo, Joël Alwen, and
Krzysztof Pietrzak. 2021. Keep the Dirt: Tainted TreeKEM, Adaptively and
Actively Secure Continuous Group Key Agreement. In 2021 IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy . IEEE Computer Society Press, San Francisco, CA, USA,
268–284. https://doi.org/10.1109/SP40001.2021.00035
[24] Johannes Leupold. 2024. mls-kotlin. https://github.com/Traderjoe95/mls-kotlin.
[25] National Institute of Standards and Technology. 2023. Digital Signature Standard.
FIPS 186-5. https://doi.org/10.6028
[26] Saurabh Panjwani. 2007. Tackling Adaptive Corruptions in Multicast Encryption
Protocols. In TCC 2007: 4th Theory of Cryptography Conference (Lecture Notes in
Computer Science, Vol. 4392), Salil P. Vadhan (Ed.). Springer Berlin Heidelberg,
Germany, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 21–40. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
540-70936-7_2
[27] Adi Shamir. 1979. How to Share a Secret. Commun. ACM 22, 11 (1979), 612–613.
http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/journals/cacm/cacm22.html#Shamir79
[28] Abdul Rahman Taleb. 2024. Quarantined-TreeKEM, a proof-of-concept implemen-
tation in Kotlin. https://github.com/AbdulRahmanTaleb/Quarantined-TreeKEM.
[29] Matthew Weidner. 2019. Group messaging for secure asynchronous collaboration.
(2019). https://mattweidner.com/acs-dissertation.pdf

Chevalier et al.
A Additional Security Considerations
A.1 Considerations on a Fully Active Adversary
As aforementioned, and accordingly to the security model of MLS
standard and other works – among which [23] –, the formal secu-
rity analysis of this paper deals with a partially active adversary
unable to impersonate any user, even in case of corruption. In that
framework, all user messages are thus considered legitimate.
We may wonder what would be the main security issues with
QTK, in case of a fully active attacker, that would not occur with
TreeKEM. To do so, we consider separately the cases of a share-
holder or a quarantine initiator/updater impersonation, that only
impact the availability of the protocol but not its security, and the
impersonation of a ghost, that lowers QTK’s security22.
A.1.1 Shareholder Impersonation. The only action that the proto-
col requires shareholders to carry out is to send to a reconnecting
ghost the shares that correspond to its quarantine keys. An im-
personated shareholder would therefore either voluntarily retain
the shares that it was supposed to transmit, send invalid shares
or even send wrong shares with bad indices 23, in order to addi-
tionally collide with legitimate shares sent by other shareholders.
However, all these attacks only impact the ability of the former
ghost to reconstruct its quarantine keys, and, as a consequence, the
availability of the protocol – which can never be ensured against an
active adversary, for any CGKA and notably TreeKEM, especially
when the Delivery Service is controlled by this adversary.
A.1.2 Quarantine Initiator/Updater Impersonation. In this case, the
adversary can also impact the availability of the protocol by sending
invalid shares to all shareholders. The major flaw here is that the
unavailability issue only appears at the end of the quarantine, when
the ghost reconnects.
The adversary can also arbitrarily quarantine any user, even an
active one. If it is coupled with the distribution of invalid shares, it
eventually comes to temporarily expelling a user from the group,
since that user will not be able to recover its message history when
reconnecting. Nevertheless, such an attack does not exceed the
capacity of an active adversary in TreeKEM, who can also arbitrarily
remove any user 24. Furthermore, it is easy to trace a malicious
quarantine initiator that performs this type of attack, as any user
in the group:
• is able to check whether the quarantine is justified (which
is the case if the newly quarantined ghost has encryption
keys whose seniority exceed the maximum authorized limit
𝛿𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑐𝑡 );
• knows which committer has initiated that – potentially
fallacious – quarantine.
Furthermore, the impersonation of a quarantine initiator/updater
(without the need to corrupt this user at that epoch) leads to a
22The impersonation of the last type of user, the non-shareholding active user, has no
particular effect on QTK that would no occur on TreeKEM.
23The share indices allow the reconstructing algorithm of the secret sharing scheme
to select a valid set of shares. Each Share Recovery Message therefore comprises one or
several shares, along with their associated indices (cf. Section 3.5).
24With TreeKEM, any user can remove any other one without justification. Even
if the application level restricts this right to some administrators within the group,
impersonating these administrators gives the adversary a full control over the group
composition.
vulnerability both in TreeKEM and QTK; the consequences in terms
of post-compromise security are nevertheless more important with
QTK, as described below.
If an adversary is able to impersonate a user𝑢𝑗 – through the
leakage of its private signature key 𝑠𝑠𝑘𝑗 – at some epoch 𝑒𝑖 and
has corrupt another user𝑢𝑘 at epoch𝑒𝑖−1, thus getting the current
group key𝑘𝑖, then it may commit on behalf of𝑢𝑗 and know the new
group key𝑘𝑖+1 without even needing to corrupt𝑢𝑗 at that epoch.
Consequently, the adversary does not break the safe predicate and
wins the security game, which implies that post-compromise se-
curity cannot be achieved in case of signature leakage until the
update of that user’s signature key-pair25.
With QTK, this vulnerability can be further exploited. Indeed,
the adversary not only wins the security game for a challenge
key at epoch 𝑒𝑖+1, but if it also initiates or updates a quarantine
(over any user 𝑢𝑔) during the commit it forges, then it provides
the ghost𝑢𝑔 with a new encryption key-pair(𝑝𝑘𝑖+1𝑔 ,𝑠𝑘𝑖+1𝑔 ) that it
entirely knows and that can be used to recover all group keys until
the subsequent quarantine update for𝑢𝑔, at epoch𝑒𝑖+𝛿𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟 -𝑢𝑝𝑑 . Con-
sequently, post-compromise security can only be achieved at epoch
𝑒 = Max{𝑒𝑠𝑖𝑔-𝑢𝑝𝑑,𝑒𝑖+𝛿𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟 -𝑢𝑝𝑑}+ 1, where 𝑒𝑠𝑖𝑔-𝑢𝑝𝑑 denotes the
epoch in which𝑢𝑗 refreshes its signature key-pair.
A.1.3 Ghost Impersonation. The impersonation of a ghost strongly
impacts QTK’s forward secrecy. Indeed, the adversary may require
a reconnection of that ghost on its behalf and recover this way the
ghost’s quarantine keys, and thus, all the content history of the
group since the ghost’s last key update. We nevertheless underline
that even in that worst-case scenario, the forward secrecy yielded
by QTK only falls back to the one offered by the original TreeKEM
and never falls below.
Albeit such a fully-active adversary stands beyond our security
model, we recommend, in order to prevent this case, the use of
a multi-factor authentication that would require an active action
of the human user, either on the same device as the one using
the Secure Group Messaging application – such as the One Tap
version of the Google 2-step process or a biometric authentication
– or an out-of-band authentication on a separate device. We leave
the formal security analysis associated with such authentication
processes, in the framework of QTK as well as TreeKEM, as an open
problem for future work.
A.2 Security Proof for Tainted TreeKEM [23]
The security proof of Tainted TreeKEM in the ROM relies on the
concept of Generalized Selective Decryption (GSD), from [26], that
[23] has adapted to the framework of public-key encryption. This
notion states the indistinguishability of the secret key associated
with a node in a graph. We can straightforwardly deduce the CGKA-
security of a protocol from the GSD property, by considering the
GSD graph as the CGKA graph (cf. Section 4.3.2) and by focusing
on the indistinguishability of the secret element of the roots of the
CGKA-graph26.
25The need for the adversary to know the previous group key mitigates this vulnera-
bility by adding another prerequisite to the attack, but it does not formally prevent
the success of the attack.
26The roots of a CGKA-graph are the root of each generation of Ratchet Tree that
composes that graph.

Quarantined-TreeKEM
Definition A.1 (Generalized Selective Decryption (GSD), adapted
from [26] by [ 23]). Let(KeyGen, Enc, Dec) be a public-key encryp-
tion scheme with secret key spaceK and message spaceM such
thatK⊆M . The GSD game (for public-key encryption schemes)
is a two-party game between a challengerC and an adversaryA.
On input an integer𝑁 , for each𝑣∈ J1,𝑁 K the challengerC picks
a key-pair(𝑝𝑘𝑣,𝑠𝑘𝑣) ←KeyGen(𝑟) (where𝑟 is a random seed)
and initializes the key graph𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) :=(J1,𝑁 K,∅) and the set
of corrupted users 𝐶𝑜𝑟 =∅.A can adaptively do the following
queries:
• (encrypt,𝑢,𝑣): On input two nodes𝑢 and𝑣,C returns an
encryption𝑐 =𝐸𝑛𝑐(𝑝𝑘𝑢,𝑠𝑘𝑣) of𝑠𝑘𝑣 under𝑝𝑘𝑢 along with
𝑝𝑘𝑢 and adds the directed edge(𝑢,𝑣) to𝐸. Each pair(𝑢,𝑣)
can only be queried at most once.
• (corrupt,𝑣): On input a node𝑣,C returns𝑠𝑘𝑣 and adds𝑣
to𝐶𝑜𝑟 .
• (challenge,𝑣), single access: On input a challenge node𝑣,
C samples𝑏←$ 0, 1 uniformly at random and returns𝑠𝑘𝑣
if𝑏 = 0, otherwise it returns a new secret key generated by
KeyGen using a new independent uniformly random seed.
In the context of GSD we denote the challenge graph as the graph
induced by all nodes from which the challenge node𝑣 is reachable.
We require that none of the nodes in the challenge graph are in
𝐶𝑜𝑟 , that𝐺 is acyclic and that the challenge node𝑣 is a sink. Note
thatA does not receive the public key of the challenge node, since
it is a sink.
Finally,A outputs a bit𝑏0 and it wins the game if 𝑏0 =𝑏. We
call the encryption scheme G(𝜖,𝑡)-adaptive GSD-secure if for any
adversaryA running in time𝑡 it holds:
𝐴𝑑𝑣𝐺𝑆𝐷(A) :=|Pr[1←A| 𝑏 = 0]− Pr[1←A| 𝑏 = 1]| <𝜖
Theorem 3 from [23] beneath is a general result proving that a
GSD graph where edges are constructed by encrypting, with an IND-
CPA secure public-key encryption scheme, secret seeds belonging
to some nodes, and where public-private key-pairs are derived
from that same seeds via a random oracle, is GSD-secure. However,
in such a graph, all the seeds are random and independent. [ 23]
consequently adapts that result to their Tainted TreeKEM protocol
by considering that the seeds are derived the one from another
through a random oracle 𝐻1, different from the one 𝐻2 used to
generate the key-pairs. This leads to Theorem 4 detailed hereunder,
where the GSD graph corresponds to the CGKA graph of their
protocol.
Theorem A.2 (Theorem 3 from [23]). For any public-key encryp-
tion scheme Π =(KeyGen, Enc, Dec) and hash function 𝐻 , let the
encryption scheme Π′ =(KeyGen′, Enc′, Dec′) be defined as follows:
(1) KeyGen′ simply picks a random seed𝑠 as secret key and runs
KeyGen(𝐻(𝑠)) to obtain the corresponding public key,
(2) Enc′ is identical to Enc and
(3) Dec′, given the secret key 𝑠, extracts the secret key from
KeyGen(𝐻(𝑠)) and uses Dec to decrypt the ciphertext.
If Π is( ˜𝜖,𝑡)-IND-CPA secure and𝐻 is modelled as a random oracle,
then Π′ is(𝜖,𝑡)-adaptive GSD-secure, where𝜖 = 2𝑁 2· ˜𝜖+ 𝑚𝑁
2ℓ−1 , with
𝑁 the number of nodes, 𝑚 the number of oracle queries to 𝐻 ,ℓ the
seed length.
Theorem A.3 (Theorem 4 from [23]). If the encryption scheme in
TTKEM is( ˜𝜖,𝑡)-IND-CPA secure and𝐻1,𝐻2 are modelled as random
oracles, then TTKEM is(𝑄,𝜖,𝑡)-CGKA-secure, where𝜖 = ˜𝜖· 8(𝑛𝑄)2+
negl.
We underline that, as explicitly stated by [23], the above The-
orem 4 is applicable to TreeKEM or other similar CGKAs – such
as our QTK protocol –, with a potentially different security bound
that only depends on the number of nodes in the CGKA graph (but
not on its structure).
B Jointly-Implemented Quarantine
We present here an improvement of the original QTK CGKA, called
jointly-implemented quarantine, that upgrades the security of QTK
by replacing the initial proper critical window of a ghost’s quar-
antine updater byℓ more secure shared critical windows related
toℓ updaters. This method, which uses a secretly key-updatable
PKE (cf. Section 2.3) to generate the ghost’s quarantine encryp-
tion key-pair, has a communication cost increased by a factorℓ for
the initialization and each update of the quarantine. However, this
communication overhead is mitigated by the fact that the higher se-
curity provided by this tweak permits to space out the intermediate
updates of the quarantine keys.
B.1 Overview
As recalled in Figure 9, a quarantine updater 27 has – beside the
classical critical window centered around𝑞∗ that every active user
has in any CGKA protocol – a critical window that corresponds to
the generation of the ghost’s quarantine key-pair by this updater.
Therefore, until this window closes when the updater deletes the
secret key and seed (after sharing that seed), any corruption of this
particular user compromises the newly generated ghost’s encryp-
tion key, which impacts both forward secrecy and post-compromise
security.
Aℓ-jointly-implemented quarantine reduces this vulnerability
by havingℓ several users (generally two) generate in common the
ghost’s quarantine keys, in a way such that none of these users
knows the secret keys or seeds.
B.1.1 Initialization and Update. The initialization or the update of
aℓ-jointly-implemented quarantine is effective after ℓ epochs of
preparation, using a secretly key-updatable PKE instead of a regular
PKE. We describe below the process of a quarantine initialization,
knowing that a quarantine key update is processed similarly.
(1) At epoch𝑒𝑖, the committer𝑢𝑖𝑐 =𝑢𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 0 that decides to quar-
antine a new ghost𝑢𝑔 proceeds to a regular quarantine ini-
tialization as described in Section 3.3, except that the quar-
antine does not start at the following epoch butℓ epochs
after (at epoch𝑒𝑖+ℓ).
• 𝑢𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 0 generates a temporary fresh encryption key-pair
(c𝑝𝑘
𝑖
𝑔, b𝑠𝑘
𝑖
𝑔) for the new ghost𝑢𝑔∈NG𝑖+ℓ:
ˆ𝑠𝑖
𝑔
$
←S
(c𝑝𝑘
𝑖
𝑔, b𝑠𝑘
𝑖
𝑔) := KeyGen(1𝜆; ˆ𝑠𝑖
𝑔)
27The term quarantine updater also comprises the quarantine initiator.

Chevalier et al.
Figure 9: Compared critical windows for the initialization of a
regular quarantine and a 2-jointly-implemented quarantine.
In the latter case, the single updater’s proper critical window
is replaced by the shared critical windows of the two updaters
𝑢𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 0 and𝑢𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 1 .
• It distributes to all group members the temporary pub-
lic key c𝑝𝑘
𝑖
𝑔.
• It also sends to the group the shares issued from the
secret seeds at the origin of the ghost’s key-pair:
[ˆ𝑠𝑖
𝑔]← Distr(ˆ𝑠𝑖
𝑔,𝑡,𝑚)
• Right after, it deletes from its local state the ghost’s
quarantine secret seed and private key.
(2) At epochs 𝑒𝑖+1 to 𝑒𝑖+ℓ−1, the committers 𝑢𝑖+𝑗
𝑐 = 𝑢𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑗
(𝑗∈ J1,ℓ− 1K) – which must be different from 𝑢𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 0 and
from each other – continue the process of quarantine ini-
tialization:
• 𝑢𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑗 generates fresh update elements from a ran-
domly drawn seed.
ˆ𝑠𝑖+𝑗
𝑔
$
←S
(Θ𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 ,𝜃𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 ) := UpdGen(1𝜆; ˆ𝑠𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 )
• It updates, with the public update element Θ𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 , the
ghost’s temporary public key sent by the previous
initiator𝑢𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑗−1:
c𝑝𝑘
𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 := UpdPk(c𝑝𝑘
𝑖+𝑗−1
𝑔 , Θ𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 )
• It distributes to all group members the new temporary
quarantine public key c𝑝𝑘
𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 .
• It shares within the group the seed ˆ𝑠𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 used to gener-
ate the update elements(Θ𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 ,𝜃𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 ):
[ˆ𝑠𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 ]← Distr(ˆ𝑠𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 ,𝑡,𝑚)
• It deletes from its local state the seed ˆ𝑠𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 and the
private update element𝜃𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 .
(3) The quarantine is then effective at epoch𝑒𝑖+ℓ, with a ghost’s
quarantine encryption key-pair corresponding to the tem-
porary key-pair of epoch𝑒𝑖+ℓ−1:
(𝑝𝑘𝑖+ℓ
𝑔 ,𝑠𝑘𝑖+ℓ
𝑔 ) :=(c𝑝𝑘
𝑖+ℓ−1
𝑔 , b𝑠𝑘
𝑖+ℓ−1
𝑔 )
Nota: If a ghost comes back online before epoch𝑒𝑖+ℓ, its quaran-
tine initialization process instantly aborts and it can immediately
recover its offline history as with TreeKEM.
B.1.2 Quarantine End. At the end of the quarantine, the recon-
necting ghost recovers from the shareholders a sufficient number
of shares associated to its quarantine:
• shares of the seed ˆ𝑠𝑖𝑔 that was used to generate the first
temporary key-pair(c𝑝𝑘
𝑖
𝑔, b𝑠𝑘
𝑖
𝑔).
• shares of the seeds(ˆ𝑠𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 )𝑗∈J1,ℓ−1K associated with all the
update elements(Θ𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 ,𝜃𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 )𝑗∈J1,ℓ−1K.
It reconstructs the secret seeds(𝑠𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 )𝑗∈J0,ℓ−1K associated with
these share collections. Then, it recomputes the initial temporary
private key b𝑠𝑘
𝑖
𝑔 from the secret seed ˆ𝑠𝑖𝑔 and updates itℓ− 1 times
with the reconstructed secret update elements𝜃𝑖+1𝑔 ,··· ,𝜃𝑖+ℓ−1𝑔 , in
order to get the final private key𝑠𝑘𝑖+ℓ𝑔 :
ˆ𝑠𝑖
𝑔 := Comb([ ˆ𝑠𝑖
𝑔])
(c𝑝𝑘
𝑖
𝑔, b𝑠𝑘
𝑖
𝑔) := KeyGen(1𝜆; ˆ𝑠𝑖
𝑔)
∀𝑗∈ J1,ℓ− 1K :
ˆ𝑠𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 := Comb([ ˆ𝑠𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 ])
(Θ𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 ,𝜃𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 ) := UpdGen(1𝜆; ˆ𝑠𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 )
b𝑠𝑘
𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 := UpdSk(b𝑠𝑘
𝑖+𝑗−1
𝑔 ,𝜃𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 )
𝑠𝑘𝑖+ℓ
𝑔 := b𝑠𝑘
𝑖+ℓ−1
𝑔
B.2 Security
As none of the quarantine updaters has access to the ghost’s quar-
antine secret key𝑠𝑘𝑖+ℓ𝑔 but only to intermediate elements (indeed,
𝑢𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 0 only knows the first temporary private keyb𝑠𝑘
𝑖
𝑔 and(𝑢𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑗)𝑗∈J1,ℓ−1K
know nothing but their associated secret update element𝜃𝑖+𝑗
𝑔 ), the
corruption of all but one of them does not give the adversary any
clue to recover the quarantine private key. The only way for the
adversary to recover this private key is to corrupt each one of these
updaters𝑢𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑗 precisely during their critical window at epoch𝑒𝑖+𝑗 .
We consequently consider that these updaters do not have any-
more a proper critical window related to the quarantine initializa-
tion or update, but a shared critical window with a full recovery
threshold28.
28Which means that all these users without exception must be corrupted during their
critical window so that the adversary recovers the ghost’s quarantine key.

Quarantined-TreeKEM
B.3 Performance
In this jointly-implemented quarantine variant, the communication
costs of the quarantine initialization, of each update and of the
Share Recovery Messages in the reconnection process scale almost
linearly with the number of co-initiators and co-updaters involved.
Consequently, the communication cost of aℓ-jointly-implemented
quarantine is increased as follows, compared to a regular broadcast-
only29 quarantine:
𝑐𝑐ℓ−𝑗𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡
𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡−𝑢𝑝𝑑 =ℓ.𝑐𝑐𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡−𝑢𝑝𝑑
𝑐𝑐ℓ−𝑗𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡
𝑒𝑛𝑑 ∈

|𝑢𝑝𝑑|+ℓ.𝑡.  |𝑠𝑖𝑔|+|𝑐𝑡|+𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦.(|𝑠|+ 2.|𝑖𝑛𝑡|),
|𝑢𝑝𝑑|+𝑛𝑚𝑎𝑥
𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑. |𝑠𝑖𝑔|+ 2.ℓ.𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦.𝑡.|𝑖𝑛𝑡| 
+ℓ.𝑚.𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦. |𝑠𝑖𝑔|+|𝑐𝑡|+|𝑠|+ 2.|𝑖𝑛𝑡| 
However, as stated above, this overhead is mitigated by the
possibility to decrease the quarantine key update frequency, due to
the higher security brought by the jointly-implemented quarantine
variant.
C Availability Analysis: Reconstruction of a
Quarantine Key
The availability of the quarantine mechanism offered by QTK de-
pends on the success of the quarantine key(s) reconstruction(s)
carried out by a reconnecting ghost30. This process requires a suffi-
cient number (greater than or equal to the secret sharing threshold
that was chosen when creating the shares) of shareholders to be
available at the ghost’s reconnection time and to send it their shares.
This part is devoted to assessing the probability of failure of a
quarantine key reconstruction, depending on the distribution of
unavailable shareholders – related to that ghost – in the group. To
do so, we consider that any shareholder associated with a specific
quarantine has the same probability 𝑝 to appear unavailable at
the reconnection time of the related ghost – either because it was
removed from the group or quarantined itself in the meantime, or
because it remains offline for too long31.
The first step of our analysis deals with the simplified case of a
perfect Ratchet Tree, i.e. a triangular tree whose leaves are all filled
with users and all located at the same level, and we upper-bound
the failure probability of the quarantine key reconstruction for both
the default and the horizontal share distribution methods.
We then display a succinct analysis of the impact of non-perfect
(i.e. non-fully filled) Ratchet Trees on the aforementioned failure
probability, in the particular case of the default share distribution.
We leave aside the horizontal share distribution in a non-perfect
tree, that appears more resilient than the default distribution in
terms of quarantine key recovery (as clearly shown in Table 1),
due to its balanced share distribution that generates shareholder
29The improvement is similar with the server-aided variant.
30As stated before, a ghost failing to recover the content of its quarantine remains able
to reintegrate the group. The notion of availability studied in this part thus concerns
only the data associated with a ghost’s quarantine, and not that ghost’s membership
of the group.
31We do not consider the case of an irregular distribution of inactive users, e.g. depend-
ing on their time zone, as MLS and QTK distribute users in the Ratchet Tree according
to their order of arrival in the group.
families of similar sizes and therefore prevents some small families
from weakening the key recovery process, even with a large number
of users.
C.1 Failure Probability in a Perfect Ratchet Tree
C.1.1 Failure of a Shareholder Family. As stated in Section 3.3.4, the
same share related to a quarantine key is distributed to several users
among the group, that are said to belong to the same shareholder
family. A missing share at reconstruction time thus implies that all
users in its shareholder family are unavailable at that crucial time.
Let us note𝑈𝑖 the event that the shareholder𝑢𝑖 is unavailable
at the reconnection time of the associated ghost, and𝑈𝐹 the event
that the shareholder family 𝐹, of size 𝑓 , is itself unavailable at
that time, so that its share ends missing for the reconstruction of
the quarantine key. We also respectively notePr[𝑈𝑖] and Pr[𝑈𝐹]
the probabilities of unavailability of the shareholder𝑢𝑖 and of the
family𝐹.
Since the unavailability of any shareholder is an event inde-
pendent of the behaviour of the other shareholders and with a
probability identical for any user, we have:
𝑈𝐹 =𝑈0∧···∧ 𝑈𝑓−1 ⇒ Pr[𝑈𝐹] =
𝑓−1Ö
𝑖=0
Pr[𝑈𝑖] =
𝑓−1Ö
𝑖=0
𝑝 =𝑝𝑓
(1)
C.1.2 Failure with the Default Share Distribution Method. With
the default share distribution method, all the shareholder families
in the tree have different sizes, depending on their positions with
respect to the quarantine initiator / updater32.
Without loss of generality, we study the case where the quaran-
tine initiator / updater is the leftmost leaf in the Ratchet Tree; as
the tree is considered perfect, it is symmetrical and this hypothesis
therefore does not narrow the scope of our results. In this setting,
depicted in Figure 10, families ranging from 0 toℎ− 1 (withℎ the
tree height) have a size of :
𝑓0 = 2
∀𝑖∈ J1,ℎ− 1K,𝑓𝑖 = 2𝑖
Consequently, these families have an unavailability probability
of :
Pr

𝑈𝐹0

=𝑝2
∀𝑖∈ J1,ℎ− 1K, Pr

𝑈𝐹𝑖

=𝑝2𝑖 (2)
We note𝐺𝑧
𝑖 a set of𝑧 families, whose unavailability probability
is noted Pr
h
𝑈𝐺𝑧
𝑖
i
. We have a number  ℎ
𝑧
 of such sets in a tree of
height h. For a secret sharing scheme parametrized with a recovery
threshold𝑡 out of𝑚 =ℎ shares emitted, the reconstruction fails
if any sets of𝑧≥ ¯𝑡+ 1 = 𝑚−𝑡+ 1 families appear unavailable.
Therefore, the probability Pr[𝑈] of a reconstruction failure𝑈 is
bounded as:
32The only exception to this statement is for the two families closest to the initiator,
that have the same size of two users, as described hereafter.

Chevalier et al.
Figure 10: Size and distribution of the shareholder families
associated with a quarantine, with the default share distri-
bution and in a perfect tree. Because all the leaves are filled,
the location of the quarantine initiator is of no importance
here.
𝑈⊆
𝑚=ℎØ
𝑧=¯𝑡+1
'›
«
Ø
𝑧 families amongℎ
'›
«
𝑧−1Û
𝑗=0
𝑈𝐹𝑖𝑗
“ﬁ
‹
“ﬁ
‹
, with ¯𝑡 =𝑚−𝑡
⇒ Pr[𝑈]≤
ℎ∑︁
𝑧=¯𝑡+1
'›
«
∑︁
𝑧 families amongℎ
'›
«
𝑧−1Ö
𝑗=0
𝑝2𝑖𝑗 “ﬁ
‹
“ﬁ
‹
=
ℎ∑︁
𝑧=¯𝑡+1
Pr

𝑈𝑧
with Pr

𝑈𝑧
=
(ℎ
𝑧)−1∑︁
𝑖=0
Pr
h
𝑈𝐺𝑧
𝑖
i
and Pr
h
𝑈𝐺𝑧
𝑖
i
=
𝑧−1Ö
𝑗=0
𝑝2𝑖𝑗
=𝑝
˝𝑧−1
𝑗 =0 2𝑖𝑗
In order to study the ℎ
𝑧
 sets𝐺𝑧 of families, we proceed as follows
(cf. Figure 11 for details):
• We firstly consider the set𝐺𝑧
0 composed of the𝑧 leftmost
families in the tree, i.e. the𝑧 smallest families.
• Then, we enumerate all the possible families by replacing𝑥
families(𝐹𝑗𝑖)𝑖∈J0,𝑥−1K from𝐺𝑧
0 by𝑥 families(𝐹𝑘𝑖)𝑖∈J0,𝑥−1K⊆
{𝐹𝑧,...,𝐹 ℎ−1} on the right.
We note𝑆𝑧𝑥 the sum of the unavailability probabilities of such
created sets of families:
𝑆𝑧
𝑥 =
∑︁
(𝑥 initial indices among z)
∑︁
(𝑥 final indices among h−z)
Pr
h
𝑈𝐺𝑧
𝑖
i
Consequently, we can express the probability Pr[𝑈𝑧] that pre-
cisely𝑧 families fail to send a share as:
Pr

𝑈𝑧
= Pr

𝑈𝐺𝑧
0

+
𝑧∑︁
𝑥=1
𝑆𝑧
𝑥
𝑃𝑧
0
def= Pr
h
𝑈𝐺𝑧
0
i
=
𝑧−1Ö
𝑖=0
𝑝2𝑖
=𝑝
˝𝑧−1
𝑖=0 2𝑖
=𝑝2𝑧−1
Pr
h
𝑈𝐺𝑧
𝑖
i
=
˛𝑧−1
𝑖=0 𝑝2𝑖
· ˛𝑥−1
𝑖=0 𝑝2𝑘𝑖
˛𝑥−1
𝑖=0 𝑝2𝑗𝑖
=𝑃𝑧
0·𝑝
˝𝑥−1
𝑖=0(2𝑘𝑖−2𝑗𝑖)
We upper-bound𝑆𝑧𝑥 by replacing each one of the 𝑧
𝑥
·  ℎ−𝑧
𝑥
 com-
binations of initial indices{𝑗0,...,𝑗 𝑥−1}⊆{ 0,...,𝑧 − 1} and final
indices{𝑘0,...,𝑘 𝑥−1}⊆{ 𝑧,...,ℎ − 1} by the combination yielding
the highest probability of failure. This one consists in replacing the
𝑥 rightmost indices of the set 𝐺𝑧
0 by the𝑥 leftmost indices from
{𝑧,...,ℎ −1}, thus creating a shift of𝑥 indices rightwards compared
to𝐺𝑧
0. Consequently, we have:
Figure 11: Selection of all sets of 𝑧 shareholder families
among theℎ families in a Ratchet Tree of heightℎ. At the top
of the figure,𝐺𝑧
0 represents the reference set that comprises
the𝑧 leftmost families in the Ratchet Tree (considering a
quarantine initiator as the leftmost user in the tree). At the
bottom is depicted one other set of families, created by re-
placing𝑥 families from 𝐺𝑧
0 by families on the right (with
indices greater than𝑧− 1).
𝑆𝑧
𝑥≤
𝑧
𝑥

·
ℎ−𝑧
𝑥

·𝑃𝑧
0·𝑝
˝𝑧−1
𝑖=𝑧−𝑥(2𝑖+𝑥−2𝑖)
≤
𝑧
𝑥

·
ℎ−𝑧
𝑥

·𝑃𝑧
0·𝑝(2𝑥−1)( 2𝑧−2𝑧−𝑥)
Pr[𝑈]≤
ℎ∑︁
𝑧=¯𝑡+1
Pr

𝑈𝑧
≤
ℎ∑︁
𝑧=¯𝑡+1
 
𝑃𝑧
0+
𝑧∑︁
𝑥=1
𝑆𝑧
𝑥
!
Pr[𝑈]≤
ℎ∑︁
𝑧=ℎ−𝑡+1
𝑝2𝑧−1
 
1+
𝑧∑︁
𝑥=1
𝑧
𝑥

·
ℎ−𝑧
𝑥

·𝑝(2𝑥−1)( 2𝑧−2𝑧−𝑥)
!
(3)
Upper Bound on the Logarithmic Values. In order to have a better
view of the upper-bounded failure probability described above when
its value is very low, it appears useful to take a look at its logarithm
(for instance, in base 𝑞 = 1
𝑝 ∈ N∗). However, when that value
falls under the accuracy limit of the computer, it is rounded to 0
and therefore its logarithm cannot be directly computed. This case
happens when the Ratchet Tree heightℎ grows, and especially for
small values of the threshold𝑡. Consequently, in such cases, we need
to upper-bound the logarithmic value of that failure probability, as
detailed beneath.
𝐿𝑧 = log𝑞(Pr

𝑈𝑧
) with𝑞 = 1
𝑝∈ N∗
≤ log𝑞
 
𝑝2𝑧−1
 
1+
𝑧∑︁
𝑥=1
𝑧
𝑥

·
ℎ−𝑧
𝑥

·𝑝(2𝑥−1)( 2𝑧−2𝑧−𝑥)
!!
≤ log𝑞

𝑝2𝑧−1

+ log𝑞
 
1+
𝑧∑︁
𝑥=1
𝑧
𝑥

·
ℎ−𝑧
𝑥

·𝑝(2𝑥−1)( 2𝑧−2𝑧−𝑥)
!
≤ 1− 2𝑧+ log𝑞(1+𝛼(𝑧))
with𝛼(𝑧) =
𝑧∑︁
𝑥=1
𝑧
𝑥

·
ℎ−𝑧
𝑥

·𝑝(2𝑥−1)( 2𝑧−2𝑧−𝑥)

Quarantined-TreeKEM
Since∀𝑥≥ 0, ln(1+𝑥)≤ 𝑥, then log𝑞(1+𝑥)≤ 𝑥
ln(𝑞) . Conse-
quently:
𝐿𝑧≤ 1− 2𝑧+ 𝛼(𝑧)
ln(𝑞)
⇒ 𝐿 = log𝑞(Pr[𝑈]) = log𝑞
 ℎ∑︁
𝑧=¯𝑡+1
Pr

𝑈𝑧
!
≤ log𝑞

𝑡· Max
𝑧∈J¯𝑡+1,ℎK

Pr

𝑈𝑧	
≤ log𝑞(𝑡)+ Max
𝑧∈J¯𝑡+1,ℎK
n
log𝑞(Pr

𝑈𝑧
)
o
≤ log𝑞(𝑡)+ Max
𝑧∈J¯𝑡+1,ℎK
n
1− 2𝑧+ 𝛼(𝑧)
ln(𝑞)
o
𝐿≤ log𝑞(𝑡)+ 1− 2ℎ−𝑡+1+ 𝛼(ℎ−𝑡+1)
ln(𝑞) , with :
𝛼(ℎ−𝑡+ 1) =
ℎ−𝑡+1∑︁
𝑥=1
ℎ−𝑡+ 1
𝑥

·
𝑡− 1
𝑥

·𝑝(2𝑥−1)( 2ℎ−𝑡+1−2ℎ−𝑡+1−𝑥)
(4)
Analysis. We firstly determine an availability parameter 𝛿 s.t.
it is required that Pr[𝑈] ≤ 2−𝛿 . Even if specific values of this
parameter are left to the applicative level, we have studied by way
of example the two values of𝛿 = 10 and𝛿 = 20 that we consider
reasonable probabilities of failure for our protocol.
In this framework, Figure 12, that displays the linear and loga-
rithmic upper bounds on the failure probability in perfect Ratchet
Trees of heights 6, 10 and 16 (representing small, medium and large
groups) with the default share distribution, underline that setting a
threshold𝑡 =
l
ℎ
2
m
is sufficient to respect the availability parameter
𝛿 = 10 in all cases, and 𝛿 = 20 whenℎ ≥ 8, while offering an
interesting security for our secret sharing-based quarantine.
C.1.3 Failure with the Horizontal Share Distribution Method. In
this case, illustrated by Figure 3, all the 𝑚 = 2ℎ−ℓ shareholder
families have an identical size𝑓 depending on the distribution level
ℓ chosen to split the quarantine shares. In the considered perfect
binary Ratchet Tree, such size is:
∀𝑖∈
r
0, 2ℎ−ℓ
z
, 𝑓𝑖 = 2ℓ ⇒ Pr

𝑈𝐹𝑖

=𝑝2ℓ
By considering the general equation below, we can easily bound
the quarantine key failure probability of such a distribution method:
Pr[𝑈]≤
𝑚∑︁
𝑧=𝑚−𝑡+1
'›
«
∑︁
𝑧 families among𝑚
'›
«
𝑧−1Ö
𝑗=0
Pr
h
𝑈𝐹𝑖𝑗
i“ﬁ
‹
“ﬁ
‹
≤
2ℎ−ℓ
∑︁
𝑧=𝑚−𝑡+1
'›
«
∑︁
𝑧 families among𝑚

𝑝2ℓ 𝑧“ﬁ
‹
Pr[𝑈]≤
2ℎ−ℓ
∑︁
𝑧=2ℎ−ℓ−𝑡+1
2ℎ−ℓ
𝑧

·𝑝𝑧·2ℓ
(5)
Upper Bound on the Logarithmic Values. As with the default distri-
bution method, we bound the logarithmic failure probability, useful
to study small probabilities.
𝐿 = log𝑞(Pr[𝑈])≤ log𝑞
'›
«
2ℎ−ℓ
∑︁
𝑧=2ℎ−ℓ−𝑡+1
2ℎ−ℓ
𝑧

·𝑝𝑧·2ℓ“ﬁ
‹
≤ log𝑞
 
𝑡· Max
𝑧∈J2ℎ−ℓ−𝑡+1,2ℎ−ℓ K
(2ℎ−ℓ
𝑧

·𝑝𝑧·2ℓ
)!
≤ log𝑞(𝑡)+ Max
𝑧∈J2ℎ−ℓ−𝑡+1,2ℎ−ℓ K
(
log𝑞
 2ℎ−ℓ
𝑧

·𝑝𝑧·2ℓ
!)
𝐿≤ log𝑞(𝑡)+ Max
𝑧∈J2ℎ−ℓ−𝑡+1,2ℎ−ℓ K
(
log𝑞
 2ℎ−ℓ
𝑧
!
−𝑧· 2ℓ
)
(6)
Comparison with the Default Share Distribution Method. For a
given secret sharing threshold, decreasing the size of the group
increases the failure probability of a quarantine key reconstruction,
which impacts the availability of the protocol. With the default
share distribution and when the threshold is set to half the number
of shares (𝑡 =
𝑚
2

), this becomes an issue when the height of the
Ratchet Tree falls under 6 (under around thirty users).
An immediate solution would be to decrease the threshold, at
the expense of the security offered by the secret sharing scheme.
We also may wonder whether the horizontal distribution method
– that yields more shares than the default method for the same
number of users – has a lower failure probability than the latter.
Table 1, that compares the logarithm of the failure probabilities of
these two distribution methods for Ratchet Trees of heights greater
than or equal to 3 (i.e., for groups of 8 users and more), shows that
the availability of QTK is better with the horizontal distribution
than with the default one. The lower failure probability of the
horizontal method mainly stems from the better distribution of
users among the shareholder families than with the default method.
However, this increased availability comes at the price of some
communication overhead compared to the default share distribution
(cf. Section 5.3).
Consequently, we esteem relevant to use the horizontal share
distribution method only for small groups, with Ratchet Trees of
height under 6, and to use the default method otherwise.
C.2 Failure Probability in a Non-Perfect Tree
The previous sections have studied the simplified paradigm of per-
fect Ratchet Trees, i.e. trees whose 2𝑛 leaves are all located at the
same level and are all attributed to group members. This is obvi-
ously not the case in real life, notably because this situation only
occurs when the number of users is a power of two. Consequently,
the shareholder family sizes mentioned in the previous sections,
for both share distribution methods, are in reality upper bounds of
the sizes one may expect in real conditions.
However, the Ratchet Tree heightℎ, that previously determined
the number of emitted shares in the default share distribution, is
itself no longer relevant since it does not represent anymore the
number of users and the distribution of shares in the tree. Indeed,
MLS always represents its Ratchet Tree as a perfect tree, whatever

Chevalier et al.
(a) Failure Probability with a Ratchet Tree of height ℎ = 6
 (b) Logarithmic Failure Probability with a Ratchet Tree of height
ℎ = 6
(c) Failure Probability with a Ratchet Tree of height ℎ = 10
 (d) Logarithmic Failure Probability with a Ratchet Tree of height
ℎ = 10
(e) Failure Probability with a Ratchet Tree of height ℎ = 16
 (f) Logarithmic Failure Probability with a Ratchet Tree of height
ℎ = 16
Figure 12: Upper-bounded probability of failure of a quarantine key reconstruction, with the default share distribution method
and in a perfect Ratchet Tree, according to the secret sharing threshold 𝑡 and for various Ratchet Tree heights. In this setting,
the number of shares corresponds to the tree height ( 𝑚 =ℎ) and the number of users is 𝑛 = 2ℎ. This figure underlines that
for medium to large groups (over 60 users), a threshold 𝑡 =
𝑚
2

is sufficient to yield a negligible failure probability of the
quarantine key reconstruction.

Quarantined-TreeKEM
the number and distribution of groupe members, but some of its
leaves and internal nodes areblank and therefore are not taken into
consideration by the protocol. To illustrate this, Figure 13 depicts
trees of different heights that are nonetheless logically equivalent,
notably in terms of share distribution among users. Consequently,
it appears necessary to consider the logical representation of the
Ratchet Trees, as studied by [17], instead of their formal representa-
tion comprising blank leaves and internal nodes.
The main factors influencing the probability of failure of a quar-
antine key reconstruction are:
• the structure of the Ratchet Tree, considering what [ 17]
calls depth-balance;
• the depth of the quarantine initiator in the tree, which
represents the number of nodes between the leaf associated
with this user and the tree root.
In brief, a depth-balanced tree has all its leaves – in its logical
representation, i.e. without any blank internal node or leaf – with at
most one gap level. Consequently, such a well-structured tree has
shareholder family sizes close to the case of a fully filled Ratchet
Tree – as studied in Appendix C.1.2 and Appendix C.1.3 – whereas
unbalanced trees induce a particular share distribution with more
families but which are smaller.
C.2.1 Default Share Distribution in a Depth-Balanced Tree. A non-
perfect, depth-balanced tree has a very constrained structure. In-
deed, with 2𝑘 <𝑛 < 2𝑘+1 leaves (in its logical representation), it
has a heightℎ = 𝑘+ 1 and its leaves have a depth of either 𝑘 or
𝑘+ 1. To assess the failure probability in such a tree𝑇 , we compare
it with the perfect tree𝑇𝑝 that is immmediately smaller than𝑇 , i.e.
the perfect tree bearing𝑛𝑝 = 2𝑘 leaves.
We distinguish two cases depending on whether the quarantine
initiator keeps the same level in the tree, compared to the tree𝑇𝑝,
or goes down one level (cf. Figure 14):
• If the additional leaves in𝑇 , compared to the perfect tree
𝑇𝑝, make the quarantine initiator go down one level, then
the number of shareholder families is increased by one. The
size of these new families(𝑓′
𝑖)𝑖∈J0,𝑚K, with𝑚 the number
of families in𝑇𝑝, follow the pattern:
𝑓′
0≥ 𝑓0 𝑓′
1≥ 1
∀𝑖∈ J2,𝑚 K,𝑓 ′
𝑖 ≥ 𝑓𝑖−1
Consequently, even if family𝑓′
1 , with its single user in the
worst case, has a quite high failure probability, it comes
straightforwardly from the inequations above that the fail-
ure probability of the tree𝑇 is upper-bounded by the one
of the smaller perfect tree𝑇𝑝 thanks to the higher number
of families in𝑇 .
• When the additional leaves in𝑇 do not move the quaran-
tine initiator compared to𝑇𝑝, then the number of families
remains unchanged (equal to𝑚). However, each of these
new families has a size greater than or equal to the one of
the families in𝑇𝑝:
∀𝑖∈ J0,𝑚− 1K,𝑓 ′
𝑖 ≥ 𝑓𝑖
Figure 13: Logical and formal representations of a Ratchet
Tree (cf. [ 17]). In this instance, the two trees bearing four
users have different heights (two and three, respectively), but
the share distribution, via the default method, is identical in
both cases due to the blank nodes of the rightmost tree that
are not taken into account.
Therefore, the failure probability in𝑇 in that case is as well
upper-bounded by that of𝑇𝑝.
As a consequence, we can control the failure probability of a
quarantine key reconstruction when the Ratchet Tree is depth-
balanced, by setting the secret sharing threshold identical to that
of the perfect tree𝑇𝑝 mentioned above.
C.2.2 Default Share Distribution in an Unbalanced Tree. A general
analysis on the failure probability becomes much more complex in
the case of an unbalanced tree that has a lot more possible structures
than a balanced one. As a consequence, we focus hereunder on the
extreme case of what we call a comb tree, that display all its leaves
at different depths, except for the two bottom ones, and therefore
that has a height ℎ = 𝑛− 1 for𝑛 leaves (cf. Figure 15). In this
extremely depth-unbalanced tree, the location of the quarantine
initiator (more precisely, its depth) has a significant impact on the
share distribution.
Indeed, for a quarantine initiator that has a depth𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡∈ J1,𝑛− 1K,
the number of shareholder families becomes𝑚 =𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 and the fail-
ure probability of its families, as pictured in Figure 15, is:
Pr

𝑈𝐹0

=𝑝ℎ−𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡+2 =𝑝𝑛−𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡+1
∀𝑖 J1,𝑚− 1K, Pr

𝑈𝐹𝑖

=𝑝
We distinguish two types of family sets, depending on whether
or not they comprise the bottom family𝐹0:
• 𝐺𝑧
0 represents a set of𝑧 families that includes𝐹0;
• 𝐺𝑧
1 represents a set of𝑧 families that does not comprise𝐹0.
Therefore, the global failure probability of a quarantine key
reconstruction, distributed with the default method in such a tree
and with a quarantine initiator at depth𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 , is:
Pr[𝑈]≤
𝑚∑︁
𝑧=𝑚−𝑡+1
Pr

𝑈𝑧
with𝑚 =𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡
Pr

𝑈𝑧
=
𝑚− 1
𝑧− 1

· Pr
h
𝑈𝐺𝑧
0
i
+
𝑚− 1
𝑧

· Pr
h
𝑈𝐺𝑧
1
i
=
𝑚− 1
𝑧− 1

· Pr

𝑈𝐹0

·( Pr

𝑈𝐹𝑖≠0

)𝑧−1+
𝑚− 1
𝑧

·( Pr

𝑈𝐹𝑖≠0

)𝑧
=
𝑚− 1
𝑧− 1

·𝑝𝑛−𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡+1·𝑝𝑧−1+
𝑚− 1
𝑧

·𝑝𝑧

Chevalier et al.
Figure 14: Default share distribution in a non-perfect, depth-
balanced Ratchet Tree. Subfigures b and c display the two
possible depths of the quarantine initiator, that impact both
the number and the size of the shareholder families. Green
and red nodes represent respectively compulsory and hy-
pothetical additional nodes compared to the perfect tree 𝑇𝑝
pictured in subfigure a.
Figure 15: Default share distribution in a comb tree, that has
the most depth-unbalanced possible structure, with a height
ℎ =𝑛− 1. In this case, the depth of the quarantine initiator is
of primordial importance: the lower the initiator, the better
the availability of a quarantine becomes.
Pr
h
𝑈𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑏
i
≤
𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡∑︁
𝑧=𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡−𝑡+1
𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡− 1
𝑧− 1

·𝑝𝑛−𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡+𝑧
+
𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡− 1
𝑧

·𝑝𝑧
 (7)
Using Equation (3) and Equation (7), we can determine an upper
bound𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑏
𝑙𝑖𝑚 on the threshold used in a comb tree, as a function of
the initiator’s depth𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 , so that the failure probability in that tree
Pr

𝑈𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑏
remains upper-bounded by the one in a perfect tree
Pr

𝑈𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑓 
with an identical size and where the threshold𝑡𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑓 is
set to half the number of shares:
Pr
h
𝑈𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑏

𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑏,𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡
i
≤ Pr
h
𝑈𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑓

𝑡𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑓 =
l log2(𝑛)
2
mi
⇒ 𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑏
𝑙𝑖𝑚 (𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡)
(8)
Solving numerically this inequation for medium to large groups,
of sizes𝑛 = 26 and over33, and for various depths of the quarantine
initiator, shows that as long as the initiator has a depth𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 > 𝑛
3 ,
then 𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑏
𝑙𝑖𝑚 ≥ 𝑡𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑓 =
l log2(𝑛)
2
m
. Consequently, in such a case,
keeping a threshold identical to the one in a perfect tree (𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑏 =
𝑡𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑓 ) ensures that the availability of the protocol is at least as good
as in a perfect tree of the same size.
When the quarantine initiator is located high in the tree, with a
depth𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡≤ 𝑛
3 , then either the threshold must be lowered or the
horizontal distribution method must be used instead of the default
one.
C.3 Fork Resilience of a Quarantine
As the availability of a quarantine strongly depends on the distribu-
tion of active and inactive users in the group, one may wonder what
happens in case of a fork, as studied notably in [8]. As stated in that
work, a fork happens in a group when some users start having a
diverging view of the group’s history and of the current epoch, and
therefore compute different group keys that do not permit them to
communicate anymore between them. This type of event may occur
for instance in what [8] calls the federated setting, where several
subgroups are hosted by different servers and thus that can ensure
internal communications even when the link between them is down.
In that matter, the behaviour of QTK depends whether the fork
is known or not by the group members:
If it is known, inactive users that must be quarantined can be
managed inside their subgroups, with quarantine initiators and
shareholders among that same subgroups. The secret sharing pa-
rameters are set accordingly to the subgroup’s size. Consequently,
the quarantine end, with the quarantine key recovery, can be per-
formed either before of after the fork resolution, since the secret
sharing threshold is adapted to the lower number of users in the
ghost’s subgroup.
If the fork is not known to group members, several issues may
happen:
• Several committers in different forked subgroups may start
concurrent quarantines for a same inactive user. What may
seem to be a problem can however be solved easily, by
managing these parallel quarantines for the same ghost as
if they were different updates of the same quarantine, with
several sets of shares corresponding to different quarantine
keys and different content histories.
• More importantly, shareholders associated with the ghost
are most certainly spread in all existing subgroups34. Con-
sequently, if the ghost reconnects before the fork resolution,
the number of shares recovered by the former ghost may
not be sufficient to enable the reconstruction of its quar-
antine key(s). This issue cannot be easily solved since the
fork is not known by users; quarantine initiators are thus
unable to adapt their actions to the situation, e.g. by tem-
porarily lowering the secret sharing threshold in order to
33Indeed, Table 1 underlines that it is more relevant to use the horizontal share distri-
bution for groups of size 25 users and under.
34As previously stated, the only factor dictating the distribution of users within the
Ratchet Tree with MLS and QTK is the order of their arrival in the group.

Quarantined-TreeKEM
increase the availability of the protocol in such unfavorable
conditions.
A straightforward solution in the aforementioned federated
setting, where the potential subgroups are already identi-
fied by the structure of the network – even if users do not
know when the link between these subgroups is effectively
broken – consists in adapting the share distribution process
so that any shareholder family comprises users from every
subgroup, at equal proportions. The threshold may also be
slightly lowered in order to maintain the required availabil-
ity. A more thorough analysis of QTK in the framework of
fork-resilient CGKAs, such as the ones from [8], however
appears out of the scope of this paper.
D Communication Cost
We further detail in this appendix our analysis on QTK’s communi-
cation cost, that yields the results displayed in Section 5.3. To do
so, we firstly determine the theoretical bounds of the communi-
cation cost of a quarantine, both in the broadcast-only and in the
server-aided settings. Then, we specify our choice of the concrete
parameters used to compute the communication costs of Table 3.
D.1 Broadcast-Only Quarantine
D.1.1 Initialization and Updates. A ghost 𝑢𝑔 quarantined for a
period𝑡𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟≤𝛿𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟 uses a number of quarantine encryption keys
defined as:𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦 :=
l 𝑡𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟
𝛿quar-upd
m
.
We recall that each quarantine initialization or update is asso-
ciated with a commit. The additional information, related to the
quarantine, in a commit message sent at epoch𝑒𝑖, is:
• the ghost’s leaf indexℓ𝑔;
• the ghost’s fresh quarantine public key𝑝𝑘𝑖+1𝑔 ;
• the encrypted shares for the quarantine secret seed𝑠𝑖+1𝑔 .
We consider here the most-likely case where an ideal secret
sharing scheme (cf. Section 2.2) is used in QTK. In this case, each
one of the𝑚 shares has a size equal to the seed from which they
originate. Therefore,∀𝑗∈ J0,𝑚− 1K,
[𝑠𝑖+1𝑔 ]𝑗
 =
𝑠𝑖+1𝑔
 =|𝑠|.
The number of shares to distribute depends on the number𝑛 of
users, on the tree structure and on the share distribution method.
Furthermore, the size of an encrypted share differs according to the
share distribution method:
• With the default share distribution method , each share
is joined to a path secret already encrypted by HPKE [11].
Consequently, it is not necessary neither to encapsulate
once again a symmetric key via a KEM, nor to provide
another authenticity tag (related to the AEAD encryption
scheme), and the encryption cost of the share is thus linear
with its size:∀𝑖∈ J0,𝑚− 1K,
𝐸𝑛𝑐ℎ𝑝𝑘𝑒([𝑠]𝑖)
 =|𝑠|.
• With thehorizontal share distribution method, all shares
are encrypted separately. Therefore, the communication
cost of the HPKE encryption of a single share is:
∀𝑖∈ J0,𝑚− 1K,
𝐸𝑛𝑐ℎ𝑝𝑘𝑒([𝑠]𝑖)
 =|𝑐𝑡|+|𝑠|+|𝑡𝑎𝑔|, with𝑐𝑡
the ciphertext output by the KEM used within the HPKE ci-
phersuite and𝑡𝑎𝑔 the authenticity tag yielded by the AEAD
encryption scheme.
Consequently, we have an initialization and update cost bounded
as follows:
𝑐𝑐𝑏𝑑𝑐𝑡
𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡−𝑢𝑝𝑑∈

𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦
 |𝑝𝑘|+|𝑖𝑛𝑡|+𝑚|𝑠| ,
𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦
 |𝑝𝑘|+|𝑖𝑛𝑡|+𝑚(|𝑐𝑡|+|𝑠|+|𝑡𝑎𝑔|+|𝑖𝑛𝑡|)
D.1.2 Quarantine End. As stated in Section 3.5, the reconnecting
ghost broadcasts a Quarantine End proposal and – in the worst case
– a number𝜌 of Share Resend proposals. In return, its associated
shareholders forward it the shares of its quarantine keys.
Quarantine End Proposal. This message is based on an Update
proposal and has a size equal to the latter:|𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟−𝑒𝑛𝑑| =|𝑢𝑝𝑑| =
|𝑠𝑖𝑔|+|𝑝𝑘|+|𝑠𝑝𝑘|+|𝑐𝑟𝑒𝑑| with spk and cred the former ghost’s
public signature key and associated credentials.
Share Resend Queries. These messages only comprise the creation
epochs and the indices of the𝑛𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑛𝑔 missing shares at that time,
encrypted under the current group key. Let us note|𝑖𝑛𝑡| the size
of an integer used to represent an epoch or a leaf index and let us
consider a𝑖𝑡ℎ Share Resend query (𝑖∈
r
1,𝑛𝑚𝑎𝑥
𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑
z
) with𝑛𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑖
missing shares:
|𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑𝑖| =|𝑠𝑖𝑔|+ 2𝑛𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑖|𝑖𝑛𝑡|≤|𝑠𝑖𝑔|+ 2𝑛𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑛𝑔 0|𝑖𝑛𝑡|
≤|𝑠𝑖𝑔|+ 2𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦𝑡|𝑖𝑛𝑡|
Consequently, the communication cost of𝜌 Share Resend mes-
sages is bounded by:𝑐𝑐𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑 ≤𝜌 |𝑠𝑖𝑔|+ 2𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦𝑡|𝑖𝑛𝑡| .
Share Recovery Messages. In response to its Quarantine End pro-
posal or its𝑖𝑡ℎ Resend query, the reconnecting ghost receives from
the shareholders a number𝑛𝑠ℎ𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑖≤𝑚 of initial Share Recovery
Messages for each of its𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦 quarantine keys.
This number depends on the number of active users within the
group at epoch 𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑐 . If 𝑛𝑠ℎ𝑚𝑠𝑔0 ∈ J𝑡,𝑚 K, the former ghost does
not need to receive additional shares (𝜌 = 0). On the contrary, if
𝑛𝑠ℎ𝑚𝑠𝑔0 <𝑡, a number𝜌 ∈
r
1,𝑛𝑚𝑎𝑥
𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑
z
of Share Resend queries
appears necessary.
The best case appears when a number 𝑡 of shareholders send
all the𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦 generations of shares to the reconnecting ghost. The
worst case, on the other hand, occurs when𝑚 shareholders send a
Share Recovery Message with only one share inside, which implies
in total𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦.𝑚 distinct messages.
Reconnection Communication Cost. Consequently, the communi-
cation cost induced by the a quarantine end is bounded as follows:
𝑐𝑐𝑏𝑑𝑐𝑡
𝑒𝑛𝑑 ∈

|𝑢𝑝𝑑|+𝑡 |𝑠𝑖𝑔|+|𝑐𝑡|+|𝑡𝑎𝑔|+𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦(|𝑠|+ 2|𝑖𝑛𝑡|),
|𝑢𝑝𝑑|+𝑛𝑚𝑎𝑥
𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑
 |𝑠𝑖𝑔|+ 2𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦𝑡|𝑖𝑛𝑡| 
+𝑚𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦
 |𝑠𝑖𝑔|+|𝑐𝑡|+|𝑠|+|𝑡𝑎𝑔|+ 2|𝑖𝑛𝑡| 
D.2 Server-Aided Quarantine
D.2.1 Initialization and Updates. As only the horizontal share dis-
tribution method is used in this paradigm, the communication cost
of a quarantine initialization and updates is:

Chevalier et al.
Table 4: Parameters used to compute the communication cost
of a quarantine with QTK, both in the classical and the PQ
frameworks.
Parameter Value Parameter Value
Classical PQ
|𝑝𝑘| 32 B 1,184 B 𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑 1 day
|𝑐𝑡|+|𝑡𝑎𝑔| 48 B 1,104 B 𝛿quar-upd 2 days
|𝑠𝑖𝑔| (ECDSA) 64 B 64 B |𝑠| 32 B
|𝑠𝑝𝑘| (ECDSA) 33 B 33 B |𝑖𝑛𝑡| 4 B
|𝑐𝑟𝑒𝑑| (X509-
ECDSA) 700 B 700 B 𝑛𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑
𝑚𝑎𝑥 3
|𝑙𝑒𝑎𝑓𝑁𝑜𝑑𝑒 | 829 B 1,981 B 𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦

𝛿𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟
𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑

𝑐𝑐𝑠−𝑎
𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡−𝑢𝑝𝑑 =𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦

|𝑝𝑘|+|𝑖𝑛𝑡|+
 1+ 𝑚−1
𝑛
 |𝑠𝑖𝑔|+|𝑐𝑡|+|𝑠|+|𝑡𝑎𝑔|+|𝑖𝑛𝑡| 
D.2.2 Quarantine End. Similarly to the broadcast-only setting, the
range of values depends on the shareholders’ responsiveness to
the reconnecting ghost’s Quarantine End proposal and on the way
these shareholders group the shares inside the Share Recovery
Messages.
𝑐𝑐𝑠−𝑎
𝑒𝑛𝑑∈

|𝑢𝑝𝑑|+ 2
𝑛𝑡 |𝑠𝑖𝑔|+|𝑐𝑡|+|𝑡𝑎𝑔|+|𝑖𝑛𝑡|+𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦(|𝑠|
+ 2|𝑖𝑛𝑡|), |𝑢𝑝𝑑|+𝑛𝑚𝑎𝑥
𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑
 |𝑠𝑖𝑔|+ 2𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦𝑡|𝑖𝑛𝑡| 
+ 2
𝑛𝑚𝑛𝑞𝑘𝑒𝑦
 |𝑠𝑖𝑔|+|𝑐𝑡|+|𝑠|+|𝑡𝑎𝑔|+ 3|𝑖𝑛𝑡| 
D.3 Parameter Choice
D.3.1 Encryption and Signature Primitives. In the classical frame-
work, the encryption is carried out by the HPKE paradigm [ 11],
with an ECDH-KEM such as X25519 [12] to ensure the key transport
functionality and a symmetric encryption scheme like AES-256 for
the data encryption. In the post-quantum framework, the Data En-
capsulation Mechanism (DEM) remains unchanged but the classical
KEM is replaced by a post-quantum one. We choose to instantiate
Crystals Kyber [16], standardized by the NIST as ML-KEM, as our
post-quantum KEM.
In both frameworks, ECDSA [ 25] with an elliptic curve on a
256-bit prime field is selected as the digital signature algorithm35.
D.3.2 Quarantine Parameters. Given a key renewal period 𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑
for active users, we study the case of short, medium and long
quarantines of respective durations7𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑 , 14𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑 and 28𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑 , with
a quarantine key renewal period of𝛿quar-upd = 2𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑 .
The original parameter𝛿𝑢𝑝𝑑 is itself likely to vary greatly de-
pending on the settings of the applications using the CGKA protocol.
However, if we take for instance a daily key renewal, our settings
correspond to a quarantine key refreshment every couple of days
and quarantines that last one, two and four weeks, which seems
consistent with realistic use cases of these quarantines.
As for the secret sharing parameters, the number of emitted
shares is computed as𝑚 =ℎ =

log2(𝑛)

, which corresponds to the
number of shares needed by the default share distribution within a
well structured binary tree, knowing that even with an horizontal
share distribution, the number of emitted shares is roughly the
same. The recovery threshold is chosen as𝑡 =
𝑚
2

, in order to have
a good trade-off between security and efficiency (according to the
analysis in Appendix C).
The concrete parameters used to compute the practical classical
and PQ communication costs are displayed in Table 4.
35We choose not to adopt post-quantum signatures in our PQ framework, as we
consider that it remains difficult to instantly forge a classical signature, even for a
quantum adversary.