1
A Case for End System Multicast
Yang-hua Chu, Sanjay G. Rao, Srinivasan Seshan and Hui Zhang
Carnegie Mellon University
Email: {yhchu,sanjay,srini+,hzhang}@cs.cmu.edu
Abstract— The conventional wisdom has been that IP is the
natural protocol layer for implementing multicast related func-
tionality. However, more than a decade after its initial proposal,
IP Multicast is still plagued with concerns pertaining to scala-
bility, network management, deployment and support for higher
layer functionality such as error, ﬂow and congestion control. In
this paper, we explore an alternative architecture that we term
End System Multicast, where end systems implement all mul-
ticast related functionality including membership management
and packet replication. This shifting of multicast support from
routers to end systems has the potential to address most prob-
lems associated with IP Multicast. However, the key concern is
the performance penalty associated with such a model. In par-
ticular, End System Multicast introduces duplicate packets on
physical links and incurs larger end-to-end delays than IP Mul-
ticast.
In this paper, we study these performance concerns in the
context of the Narada protocol. In Narada, end systems self-
organize into an overlay structure using a fully distributed pro-
tocol. Further, end systems attempt to optimize the eﬃciency of
the overlay by adapting to network dynamics and by consider-
ing application level performance. We present details of Narada
and evaluate it using both simulation and Internet experiments.
Our results indicate that the performance penalties are low both
from the application and the network perspectives. We believe
thepotentialbeneﬁtsoftransferringmulticastfunctionalityfrom
end systems to routers signiﬁcantly outweigh the performance
penalty incurred.
I. Introduction
Traditional network architectures distinguish between two
types of entities: end systems (hosts) and the network (routers
and switches). One of the most important architectural deci-
sions is the division of functionality between end systems and
networks.
In the Internet architecture, the internetworking layer, or
IP, implements a minimal functionality — a best-eﬀort unicast
datagram service, and end systems implement all other impor-
tant functionality such as error, congestion, and ﬂow control.
Such a minimalist approach is one of the most important tech-
nical reasons for the Internet’s growth from a small research
network into a global, commercial infrastructure with hetero-
geneous technologies, applications, and administrative author-
ities. The growth of this network has in turn unleashed the
development of new applications, which require richer network
functionality.
The key architectural question is: what new features should
be added to the IPlayer? Multicast and QoS are the two most
important features that have been or are being added to the
IPlayer. While QoS functionality cannot be provided by end
systemsaloneandthushastobesupportedattheIPlayer,this
is not the case for multicast. In particular, it is possible for
end systems to implement multicast services on top of the IP
unicast service.
This research was sponsored by DARPA under contract number F30602-99-
1-0518, and by NSF under grant numbers Career Award NCR-9624979 ANI-
9730105, ITR Award ANI-0085920, and ANI-9814929. Additional support was
provided by Intel. Views and conclusions contained in this document are those
of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing the oﬃcial policies,
either expressed or implied, of DARPA, NSF, Intel or the U.S. government.
In deciding whether to implement multicast services at the
IPlayer or at end systems, there are two conﬂicting consider-
ations that we need to reconcile. According to the end-to-end
arguments [18], a functionality should be (i) pushed to higher
layers if possible; unless (ii) implementing it at the lower layer
can achieve large performance beneﬁts that outweigh the cost
of additional complexity at the lower layer.
In his seminal work in 1989 [5], Deering argues that this sec-
ond consideration should prevail and multicast should be im-
plemented at the IPlayer. This view has been widely accepted
sofar. IPMulticastistheﬁrstsigniﬁcantfeaturethathasbeen
addedtotheIPlayersinceitsoriginaldesignandmostrouters
today implement IPMulticast. Despite this, IPMulticast has
several drawbacks that have so far prevented the service from
being widely deployed. First, IPMulticast requires routers to
maintainpergroupstate,whichnotonlyviolatesthe“stateless”
architecturalprincipleoftheoriginaldesign,butalsointroduces
high complexity and serious scaling constraints at the IPlayer.
Second, IPMulticast is a best eﬀort service, and attempts to
conform to the traditional separation of routing and transport
that has worked well in the unicast context. However, provid-
ing higher level features such as reliability, congestion control,
ﬂow control, and security has been shown to be more diﬃcult
thanintheunicastcase. Finally,IPMulticastcallsforchanges
at the infrastructural level, and this slows down the pace of
deployment.
In this paper, we revisit the issue of whether multicast re-
latedfunctionalityshouldbeimplementedattheIPlayerorat
the end systems. In particular, we consider a model in which
multicast related features, such as group membership, multi-
cast routing and packet duplication, are implemented at end
systems,assumingonly unicast IPservice. Wecallthescheme
End System Multicast. Here, end systems participating in the
multicast group communicate via an overlay structure. The
structure is an overlay in the sense that each of its edges cor-
responds to a unicast path between two end systems in the
underlying Internet.
We believe that End System Multicast has the potential to
address most problems associated with IPMulticast. Since all
packetsaretransmittedasunicastpackets,deploymentmaybe
accelerated. End System Multicast maintains the stateless na-
ture of the network by requiring end systems, which subscribe
only to a small number of groups, to perform additional com-
plexprocessingforanygivengroup. Inaddition,webelievethat
solutionsforsupportinghigherlayerfeaturessuchaserror,ﬂow,
and congestion control can be signiﬁcantly simpliﬁed by lever-
agingwellunderstoodunicastsolutionsfortheseproblems,and
by exploiting application speciﬁc intelligence.
While End System Multicast has many advantages, several
issues need to be resolved before it become a practical alter-
native to IPMulticast, In particular, an overlay approach to
multicast, however eﬃcient, cannot perform as well as IPMul-
ticast. It is impossible to completely prevent multiple overlay
edges from traversing the same physical link and thus some re-
dundant traﬃc on physical links is unavoidable. Further, com-
munication between end systems involves traversing other end

2
systems,potentiallyincreasinglatency. Wepresentanexample
toillustratethesepointsinSectionII. Inthispaper,wefocuson
two fundamental questions pertaining to the End System Mul-
ticast architecture: (i) what are the performance implications
of using an overlay architecture for multicast? and (ii) how do
end systems with limited topological information cooperate to
construct good overlay structures?
Inthispaper,weseektoanswerthesequestionsinthecontext
of a protocol that we have developed calledNarada. Narada
constructs an overlay structure among participating end sys-
temsina self-organizing andfullydistributed manner. Narada
is robust to the failure of end systems and to dynamic changes
in group membership. End systems gather information of net-
work path characteristics using passive monitoring and active
measurements. Naradacontinuallyreﬁnestheoverlaystructure
asmorenetworkinformationisavailable. Wepresentdetailsof
Narada’s design in Section III.
We have conducted a detailed evaluation of the End System
MulticastarchitectureinthecontextoftheNaradaprotocolus-
ing simulation and Internet experiments. Our evaluation con-
siders both application and network level metrics as discussed
in Section IV. Our Internet experiments are conducted on a
wide-area test-bed of about twenty hosts as described in Sec-
tion V. The results indicate that End System Multicast can
achieve bandwidth performance comparable to IPMulticast,
while at the same time achieving mean receiver latencies that
are about 1.3–1.5 times latencies seen with IPMulticast. Re-
sults from our simulation experiments, presented in Section VI
are consistent with our Internet results and indicate that the
promise of the End System Multicast architecture extends to
mediumsizedgroupsofhundredsofmembers. Forexample,for
groupsof128members,theaveragereceiverdelaywithNarada
isabout2.2–2.8timestheaveragereceiverdelaywithIPMulti-
cast,whilethenetworkresourcesconsumedbyNaradaisabout
twicethatofIPMulticast. Overallourresultsdemonstratethat
End System Multicast is a promising architecture for enabling
small and medium sized group communication applications on
the Internet.
II. End System Multicast
WeillustratethediﬀerencesbetweenIPMulticast,naiveuni-
cast and End System Multicast using Figure 1. Figure 1(a)
depicts an example physical topology, whereR1a n dR2a r e
routers, while A, B, C and D are end systems. Link delays
are as indicated.R1 − R2 represents a costly transcontinental
link, while all other links are cheaper local links. Further, let
us assumeAwishes to send data to all other nodes.
Figure1(b)depictsnaiveunicasttransmission. Naiveunicast
results in signiﬁcant redundancy on links near the source (for
example, linkA − R1 carries three copies of a transmission by
A),andresultsinduplicatecopiesoncostlylinks(forexample,
link R1 − R2 has two copies of a transmission byA).
Figure 1(c) depicts the IPMulticast tree constructed by
DVMRP[5]. DVMRPis the classical IPMulticast protocol,
where data is delivered from the source to recipients using an
IPMulticast tree composed of the unicast paths from each re-
cipient to the source. Redundant transmission is avoided, and
exactlyonecopyofthepackettraversesanygivenphysicallink.
Each recipient receives data with the same delay as thoughA
were sending to it directly by unicast.
Figure 1(d) depicts an “intelligent” overlay tree that may be
constructed using the End System Multicast architecture. The
number of redundant copies of data near the source is reduced
comparedtonaiveunicast,andjustonecopyofthepacketgoes
across the costly transcontinental linkR1 − R2. Yet, this eﬃ-
ciencyovernaiveunicastbasedschemeshasbeenobtainedwith
absolutely no change to routers, and all intelligence is imple-
mented at the end systems. However, while intelligently con-
structed overlay trees can result in much better performance
than naive unicast solutions, they still cannot perform as well
as solutions with native IPMulticast support. For example,
in Figure 1(d), linkA − R1 carries a redundant copy of data
transmission, while the delay from sourceA to receiverD has
increased.
Given that End System Multicast tries to push functional-
ity to the edges, there are two very diﬀerent ways this can be
achieved: peer-to-peer architecturesandproxy-basedarchitec-
tures. In a peer-to-peer architecture, functionality is pushed
to the end hosts actually participating in the multicast group.
Such architectures are thus completely distributed with each
end host maintaining state only for those groups it is actually
participating in. In a proxy-based architecture on the other
hand, an organization that provides value added services de-
ploys proxies at strategic locations on the Internet. End hosts
attach themselves to proxies near them, and receive data using
plainunicast,oranyavailablemulticastmedia. Whilethesear-
chitectures have important diﬀerences, fundamental to both of
them are concerns regarding the performance penalty involved
in disseminating data using overlays as compared to solutions
that have native multicast support. Thus, an end system in
our paper refers to the entity that actually takes part in a self-
organization protocol, and could be an end host or a proxy.
OurevaluationofEndSystemMulticasttargetsawiderange
of group communication applications such as audio and video
conferencing,virtualclassroomandmulti-partynetworkgames.
Suchapplicationstypicallyinvolvesmall(tensofmembers)and
medium sized (hundreds of members) groups. While End Sys-
tem Multicast may be relevant even for applications which in-
volvemuchlargergroupsizessuchasbroadcastingandcontent
distribution - particularly in the context of proxy-based archi-
tectures - such applications are outside the focus of this paper.
We defer a detailed discussion to Section VII.
III. Narada Design
In this section, we present Narada, a protocol we designed
that implements End System Multicast. In designing Narada,
we had the following objectives in mind:
• Self-organizing: T h ec o n s t r u c t i o no ft h ee n ds y s t e mo v e r l a y
musttakeplaceinafullydistributedfashionandmustberobust
to dynamic changes in group membership.
• Overlay eﬃciency: The tree constructed must be eﬃcient
both from the network and the application perspective. From
the network perspective, the constructed overlay must ensure
that redundant transmission on physical links is kept minimal.
However, diﬀerent applications may require overlays with dif-
ferent notions of eﬃciency. While interactive applications like
audio conferencing and group messaging require low latencies,
applicationslikevideoconferencingsimultaneouslyrequirehigh
bandwidth and low latencies.
•Self-improving: The overlay construction must include mech-
anisms by which end systems gather network information in a
scalablefashion. Theprotocolmustallowfortheoverlaytoin-
crementally evolve into a better structure as more information
becomes available.
• Adaptive to network dynamics:The overlay must adapt to
long-term variations in Internet path characteristics (such as
bandwidth and latency), while being resilient to inaccuracies

3
A
B
C
D
1
1
25
1
1
R2R1
(a)
A
B
C
D
1
1
25 1
1
R2R1
(b)
A
B
C
D
1
1
25
1
1
R2R1
(c)
A
B
C
D
1
1
1
1
R2R1
25
(d)
Fig. 1. Example to illustrate naive unicast, IP Multicast and End System Multicast
A
B
C
D
27
27
2 2
Fig. 2. Example to illustrate the mesh based approach in Narada.
inherent in the measurement of these quantities.
Theintuitiveapproachtoconstructingoverlayspanningtrees
is to construct them directly - that is, members explicitly se-
lect their parents from among the members they know [10].
Narada however constructs trees in a two-step process. First,
it constructs a richer connected graph that we term amesh,
and tries to ensure that the mesh has desirable performance
properties that are discussed later. In the second step, Narada
constructs spanning trees of the mesh, each tree rooted at the
correspondingsourceusingwellknownroutingalgorithms. Fig-
ure2presentsanexamplemeshthatNaradaconstructsforthe
physical topology shown in Figure 1(a), along with a spanning
tree rooted atA.
This mesh-based approach is motivated by the need to sup-
port multi-source applications. Single shared trees are suscep-
tible to a central point of failure, and are not optimized for
an individual source. Explicitly constructing multiple overlay
trees, one tree for each source is a possible design alternative
but needs to deal with the overhead of maintaining and opti-
mizing multiple overlays. In contrast, meshes allow us to con-
struct trees optimized for the individual source, yet allow us
to abstract out group management functions at the mesh level
rather than replicating them across multiple trees. Further, we
may leverage standard routing algorithms for construction of
data delivery trees.
In our approach, trees for data delivery are constructed en-
tirely from the overlay links present in the mesh. Hence, it be-
comesimportanttoconstructagoodmeshsothatgoodquality
treesmaybeproduced. Agoodmeshhastwoproperties. First,
the quality of the path between any pair of members is com-
parable to the quality of the unicast path between that pair of
members. Second,eachmemberhasalimitednumberofneigh-
bors in the mesh. By path qualities, we refer to the metrics of
interestfortheapplication,suchasdelayandbandwidth. Lim-
itingthenumberofneighborsinthemeshcontrolstheoverhead
of running routing algorithms on the mesh.
We explain the distributed algorithms that Narada uses to
construct and maintain the mesh in Section III-A. We present
mechanisms Narada uses to improve mesh quality in Section
III-B. Narada runs a variant of standard distance vector al-
gorithms on top of the mesh and uses well known algorithms
to construct per-source (reverse) shortest path spanning trees
for data delivery. We discuss this in Section III-C. While the
Naradaframeworkisgenericandisapplicabletoarangeofap-
plications, it may be customized to meet the requirements of a
speciﬁc application. We discuss this in Section III-D with the
example of conferencing applications.
A. GroupManagement
Inthissection,wepresentdistributedheuristicsNaradauses
to keep the mesh connected, to incorporate new members into
the mesh and to repair possible partitions that may be caused
by members leaving the group or by member failure.
As we do not wish to rely on a single non-failing entity to
keep track of group membership, the burden of group mainte-
nanceissharedjointlybyallmembers. Toachieveahighdegree
of robustness, our approach is to have every member maintain
a list of all other members in the group. Since Narada is tar-
geted towards medium sized groups, maintaining the complete
group membership list is not a major overhead. Every mem-
ber’s list needs to be updated when a new member joins or an
existingmemberleaves. Thechallengeistodisseminatechanges
in group membership eﬃciently, especially in the absence of a
multicastserviceprovidedbythelowerlayer. Wetacklethisby
exploiting the mesh to propagate such information. However,
this strategy is complicated by the fact that the mesh might
itself become partitioned when a member leaves. To handle
this, we require that each member periodically generate a re-
fresh message with monotonically increasing sequence number,
which is disseminated along the mesh. Each memberi keeps
track of the following information for every other memberk in
the group: (i) member addressk; (ii) last sequence numberski
that i knows k has issued; and (iii)local timeat i when i ﬁrst
received information thatk issued ski.I fm e m b e rihas not re-
ceived an update from memberk for Tm time, then,i assumes
that k iseitherdeadorpotentiallypartitionedfrom i.M e m b e r
i then initiates a set of actions to determine the existence of a
partition and repair it if present as discussed in Section 3.1.3.
Propagationofrefreshmessagesfromeverymemberalongthe
mesh could potentially be quite expensive. Instead, we require
thateachmemberperiodicallyexchangeitsknowledgeofgroup
membership with its neighbors in the mesh. A message from
member itoaneighbor jcontainsalistofentries,oneentryfor
eachmember kthat iknowsispartofthegroup.Eachentryhas
thefollowingﬁelds: (i)memberaddress k;and(ii)lastsequence
number ski that i knows k has issued. On receiving a message
fromaneighbor j,me m be riupdatesitstableaccordingtothe
pseudo code presented in Figure 3.
Finally,giventhatadistancevectorroutingalgorithmisrun
ontopofthemesh(SectionIII-C),routingupdatemessagesex-

4
Let i receive refresh message from neighborj at i′s local
time t.Le t<k , s kj > be an entry inj′s refresh message.
• if i does not have an entry fork,t h e ni inserts the
entry <k , s kj ,t > into its table
• else ifi’s entry fork is <k , s ki ,t ki >,t h e n
• if ski ≥ skj i ignores the entry pertaining tok
• else i updates its entry fork to <k , s kj ,t >
Fig. 3. Actions taken by a memberion receiving a refresh message from
member j.
E
F
C
B A G
D
Fig. 4. A sample overlay topology
changedbetweenneighborscanincludemembersequencenum-
ber information with minimum extra overhead.
A.1 Member Join
Whenamemberwishestojoinagroup,Naradaassumesthat
themem berisabletogetalistofgroupmem bersb yanout-of-
bandbootstrapmechanism. Thelistneedsneitherbecomplete
nor accurate, but must contain at least one currently active
group member. In this paper, we do not address the issue of
the bootstrap mechanism. We believe that such a mechanism
is application speciﬁc andour protocolis able to accommodate
diﬀerent ways of obtaining the bootstrap information.
The joining member randomly selects a few group members
fromthelistavailabletoitandsendsthemmessagesrequesting
to be added as a neighbor. It repeats the process until it gets
a response from some member, when it has successfully joined
the group. Having joined, the member then starts exchanging
refreshmessageswithitsneighbors. Themechanismsdescribed
earlier will ensure that the newly joined member and the rest
of the group learn about each other quickly.
A.2 Member Leave and Failure
Whenamemberleavesagroup,itnotiﬁesitsneighbors,and
thisinformationispropagatedtotherestofthegroupmembers
alongthemesh. InSectionIII-C,wewilldescribeourenhance-
menttodistancevectorroutingthatrequiresaleavingmember
tocontinueforwardingpacketsforsometimetominimizetran-
sient packet loss.
Wealsoneedtoconsiderthediﬃcultcaseofabruptfailure. In
suchacase,failureshouldbedetectedlocallyandpropagatedto
therestofthegroup. Inthispaper,weassumeafail-stopfailure
model[20],whichmeansthatonceamemberdies,itremainsin
that state, and the fact that the member is dead is detectable
by other members. We explain the actions taken on member
deathwithrespecttoFigure4. Thisexampledepictsthemesh
between group members at a given point in time. Assume that
member C dies. Its neighbors in the mesh,A, Gstop receiving
refresh messages from C. Each of them independently send
redundantprobemessagesto C,suchthattheprobabilityevery
probe message (or its reply) is lost is very small. IfC does not
respond to any probe message, then,A and G assume C to be
dead and propagate this information throughout the mesh.
Every member needs to retain entries in its group member-
ship table for dead members. Otherwise, it is impossible to
distinguish between a refresh announcing a new member and
a refresh announcing stale information regarding a dead mem-
ber. However, dead member information can be ﬂushed after
Let Q be a queue of members for whichi has stopped
receiving sequence number updates for at leastTm
time. LetT be maximum time an entry may remain in Q.
while(1) begin
Update Q;
while( !Empty(Q) and
Head(Q)is present in Q for≥ T time)
begin
j= Dequeue(Q);
Initiate probe cycle to determine ifj is dead
or to add a link to it.
end
if( !Empty(Q))b e g i n
prob = Length(Q)/ GroupSize;
With probabilityprob begin
j= Dequeue(Q);
Initiate probe cycle to determine ifj is dead
or to add a link to it.
end
sleep(P). // Sleep for time P seconds
end
end
Fig. 5. Scheduling algorithm used by memberi to repair mesh partition
suﬃcient amount of time.
A.3 Repairing Mesh Partitions
It is possible that member failure can cause the mesh to be-
come partitioned. For example, in Figure 4, if memberA dies,
the mesh becomes partitioned. In such a case, members must
ﬁrst detect the existence of a partition, and then repair it by
adding at least one overlay link to reconnect the mesh. Mem-
bers on each side of the partition stop receiving sequence num-
ber updates from members on the other side . This condition
is detected by a timeout of durationTm.
Each member maintains a queue of members that it has
stopped receiving sequence number updates from for at least
Tm time. It runs a scheduling algorithm that periodically and
probabilistically deletes a member from the head of the queue.
The deleted member is probed and it is either determined to
be dead, or a link is added to it. The scheduling algorithm is
adjustedsothatnoentryremainsinthequeueformorethana
bounded period of time. Further, the probability value is cho-
sencarefullysothatinspiteofseveralmemberssimultaneously
attemptingtorepairpartitiononlyasmallnumberofnewlinks
are added. The algorithm is summarized in Figure 5.
B. MeshPerformance
The constructed mesh can be quite sub-optimal, because (i)
initialneighborselectionbyamemberjoiningthegroupisran-
dom given limited availability of topology information at boot-
strap; (ii) partition repair might aggressively add edges that
areessentialforthemomentbutnotusefulinthelongrun;(iii)
group membership may change due to dynamic join and leave;
and (iv) underlying network conditions, routing and load may
vary. Naradaallowsforincrementalimprovementofmeshqual-
ity by adding and dropping of overlay links. Members probe
each other at random and new links may be added depending
on the perceived gain inutility in doing so. Further, members
continuouslymonitortheutilityofexistinglinks,anddroplinks
perceived as not useful. This dynamic adding and dropping of
linksinthemeshdistinguishesNaradafromtraditionalrouting
protocols.
The issue, then, is the design of a utility function that re-
ﬂects mesh quality. A good quality mesh must ensure that for
any pair of members, there exists paths along the mesh which

5
EvaluateUtility(j)b e g i n
utility =0
for each memberm (m not i)b e g i n
CL = current latency betweeni and m along mesh
NL = new latency betweeni and m along mesh
if edgei-j were added
if (NL < CL )t h e nb e g i n
utility += CL−NL
CL
end
end
return utility
Fig. 6. Example algorithm thati uses in determining utility of adding
link toj, when latency is the main metric of interest
EvaluateConsensusCost(j) begin
Costij = number of members for whichi uses j as
next hop for forwarding packets.
Costji = number of members for whichj uses i as
next hop for forwarding packets.
return max(Costij, Costji)
end
Fig. 7. Algorithm thati uses to determine consensus cost to a neighbor
j
canprovideperformancecomparabletotheperformanceofthe
unicast path between the members. A memberi computes the
utility gain if a link is added to memberj based on (i) the
number of members to whichj improves the performance of
i; and (ii) how signiﬁcant this improvement in performance is.
Thepreciseutilityfunctiondependsontheperformancemetric
(or metrics) that the overlay is being optimized for. Figure 6
presentsexamplepseudocodeforasettingwherelatencyisthe
primary metric of interest. The utility can take a maximum
value ofn,w h e r eni st h en u m be ro fg r o u pm e m be r siis aware
of. Eachmember mcancontributeamaximumof1totheutil-
ity, the actual contribution beingi′s relative decrease in delay
to m i ft h ee d g et oj were added. Narada adds and removes
links from the mesh using the following heuristics:
• Addition of links: Every member periodically probes some
randommemberthatisnotaneighbor,andevaluatestheutility
of adding a link to this member. When a memberi probes a
member j, j returns to i a copy of its routing table.i uses
this information to compute the expected gain in utility if a
link toj is added as described in Figure 6.i decides to add a
link toj if the expected utility gain exceeds a given threshold.
The threshold is chosen to depend on the group size, and the
number of neighborsi and j have in the mesh. Finally, there
may be other metric-speciﬁc heuristics for link addition. For
example, when the overlay is optimized for latency,i may also
add a link toj if the physical delay between them is very low
and the current overlay delay between them very high.
•Droppingoflinks: Ideally,thelossinutilityifalinkwereto
be dropped must exactly equal the gain in utility if the same
link were immediately re-added. However, this requires esti-
mating the relative degradation in performance to a member if
a link were dropped and it is diﬃcult to obtain such informa-
tion. Instead,weoverestimatetheactualutilityofalinkbyits
cost. Thecost of a link betweeniand j in i′sperception is the
numberofgroupmembersforwhich iuses j asnexthop. Peri-
odically, a member computes theconsensus costof its link to
every neighbor using the algorithm shown in Figure 7. It then
picks the neighbor with lowest consensus cost and drops it if
the consensus cost falls below a certain threshold. The thresh-
oldisagaincomputedasafunctionofthemember’sestimation
ofgroupsizeanditsnumberofmeshneighbors. Theconsensus
costofalinkrepresentsthemaximumofthecostofthelinkin
each neighbor’s perception. Yet, it might be computed locally
as the mesh runs a distance vector algorithm with path infor-
mation.
Our heuristics for link-dropping have the following desirable
properties:
•Stability: A link that Narada drops is unlikely to be added
again immediately. This is ensured by several factors: (i) the
thresholdfordroppingalinkislessthanorequaltothethresh-
old for adding a link; (ii) the utility of an existing link is over-
estimatedbythecostmetric;and(iii)droppingoflinksisdone
considering the perception that both members have regarding
link cost.
•Partition avoidance: We present an informal argument as
to why our link dropping algorithm does not cause a partition
assuming steady state conditions and assuming multiple links
are not dropped concurrently. Assume that memberi drops
neighbor j. Thiscouldresultinatmosttwopartitions. Assume
t h es i z eo fi′s partition isSi and the size ofj′s partition isSj.
Further, assume bothi and j know all members currently in
thegroup. Then, thesumof Si and Sj isthesizeofthegroup.
Thus Costij mustbeatleast Sj and Costji mustbeatleast Si,
and at least one of these must exceed half the group size. As
longasthedropthresholdislowerthanhalfthegroupsize,the
edge will not be dropped. Finally, we note that in situations
where a partition of the mesh is caused (for example, due to
multiple links being dropped simultaneously), our mechanisms
for partition detection and repair described in Section III-A
would handle the situation.
C. DataDelivery
Narada runs a distance vector protocol on top of the mesh.
In order to avoid the well-known count-to-inﬁnity problems, it
employsastrategysimilartoBGP[17]. Eachmembernotonly
maintains the routing cost to every other member, but also
maintains the path that leads to such a cost. Further, rout-
ing updates between neighbors contains both the cost to the
destination and the path that leads to such a cost. The per-
source trees used for data delivery are constructed from the
reverse shortest path between each recipient and the source, in
identical fashion to DVMRP[5]. A memberM that receives a
packetfromsource Sthroughaneighbor N forwardsthepacket
only if N is the next hop on the shortest path fromM to S.
Further, M forwardsthepackettoallitsneighborswhouse M
as the next hop to reachS.
The routing metric used in the distance vector protocol de-
pends on the the metrics for which the overlay is being opti-
mized,whichinturndependsontheparticularapplication. We
present an example in Section III-D.
Aconsequenceofrunningaroutingalgorithmfordatadeliv-
eryisthattherecouldbepacketlossduringtransientconditions
when member routing tables have not yet converged. In par-
ticular, there could be packet loss when a member leaves the
group or when a link is dropped for performance reasons. To
avoid this, data continues to be forwarded along old routes for
enough time until routing tables converge. To achieve this, we
introduce a new routing cost calledTransient Forward (TF).
TF is guaranteed to be larger than the cost of a path with a
valid route, but smaller than inﬁnite cost. A memberM that
leaves advertises a cost ofTF for all members for which it had
avalidroute. Normaldistancevectoroperationsleadstomem-
bers choosing alternate valid routes not involvingM (asTF is
guaranteed to be larger than the cost of any valid route). The

6
leavingmembercontinuestoforwardpacketsuntilitisnolonger
used by any neighbor as a next hop to reach any member, or
until a certain time period expires.
D. ApplicationSpeciﬁcCustomizations
A key feature of End System Multicast is that it enables ap-
plication customizable solutions. In this section, we will study
howwesupportanimportant,performancedemandingclassof
applications - video conferencing - within the Narada frame-
work. Conferencing applications require overlay treessimulta-
neously optimized for both latency and available bandwidth.
Thus, this study allows us to illustrate howdynamic metrics
likebandwidthandlatencyaredealtwithintheNaradaframe-
work. Theseideasmaybeappliedtootherapplicationsaswell.
Conferencing applications deal with media streams that can
toleratelossthroughadegradationinapplicationquality. This
allows us to build a system that employs a hop-by-hop conges-
tion control protocol. An overlay node adapts to a bandwidth
mismatchbetweentheupstreamanddownstreamlinksbydrop-
pingpackets. WeuseTFRC[7]astheunderlyingtransportpro-
tocol on each overlay link. TFRC is rate-controlled UDP, and
achievesTCP-friendlybandwidths. Itdoesnotsuﬀerdelaysas-
sociatedwithTCPsuchasretransmissiondelays,andqueueing
delays at the sender buﬀer.
Toconstructoverlaytreessimultaneouslyoptimizedforband-
width and latency, we have leveraged work done by Wang and
Crowcroft [21] in the context of routing on multiple metrics in
theInternet. Aﬁrstchoiceistouseasinglemixedroutingmet-
ricwhichisafunctionofbothbandwidthandlatency. However,
itisunclearhowthisfunctioncanindividuallyreﬂecttheband-
width and latency requirements of the application. Instead, we
usemultipleroutingmetricsinthedistancevectorprotocol,the
latency between members and the available bandwidth. The
routingprotocolusesavariantofthe shortestwidestpath algo-
rithm presented in [21]. Every member tries to pick thewidest
(highest bandwidth)path to every other member. If there are
multiplepathswiththesamebandwidth,thememberpicksthe
shortest(lowestlatency) path among all these.
Wecollectrawlatencyestimatesoflinksinthemeshbyhav-
ing neighbors ping each other every 200 milli-seconds. Raw es-
timatesofavailablebandwidthareobtainedbypassivelymoni-
toringdataﬂowalongthelinks. Bothavailablebandwidthand
latencyaredynamicinnature,andusingthemasroutingmet-
rics leads to serious concerns of instability. We deal with the
stability concerns using techniques in the design of the routing
metrics described below:
• Latency: We ﬁlter raw estimates of the overlay link latency
usinganexponentialsmoothingalgorithm. Theadvertisedlink
latency is left unchanged until the smoothed estimate diﬀers
from the currently advertised latency by a signiﬁcant amount.
•Available bandwidth:We ﬁlter raw estimates of the available
bandwidthofanoverlaylinkusinganexponentialsmoothingal-
gorithm,toproducea smoothedestimate. Next,insteadofusing
thesmoothedestimateasaroutingmetric,wedeﬁnediscretized
bandwidth levels. The smoothed estimate is rounded down to
thenearestbandwidthlevelforroutingpurposes. Thus,amesh
link with a smoothed estimate of 600 Kbps may be advertised
ashavingabandwidthof512Kbps,inasystemwithlevelscor-
responding to 512 Kbps and 1024 Kbps. To minimize possible
oscillationswhenthesmoothedestimateisclosetoabandwidth
level, we employ a simple hysteresis algorithm. Thus, while we
move down a level immediately when the smoothed estimate
fallsbelowthecurrentlevel,wemoveupalevelonlyiftheesti-
mate signiﬁcantly exceeds the bandwidth corresponding to the
next level.
Given that conferencing applications often have a bounded
source rate, the largest level in the system is set to this maxi-
mum rate. Discretization of bandwidth and choice of a maxi-
mum bandwidth level ensure that all overlay links can fall in a
smallsetofequivalenceclasseswithregardtobandwidth. This
discretized bandwidth metric not only enables greater stability
in routing on the overlays, but also allows latency to become
a determining factor when diﬀerent links have similar but not
identical bandwidth.
Ourdiscussionsofarhasdescribedhowweincorporateband-
width into the routing protocol, given a mesh that has been
constructed. Incorporating bandwidth also requires changes to
theheuristicsusedwhenameshlinkisadded. Whenamember
iprobesamember j andhasanestimateoftheavailableband-
width toj, a modiﬁed version of the utility function presented
in Figure 6 that considers bandwidth is used to determine if a
link toj must be added. However, ifi does not have a band-
widthestimateto j,itﬁrstdeterminestheavailablebandwidth
using active measurements involving transfer of data using the
underlyingtransportprotocolforseveralseconds,butatarate
boundedbythemaximumsourcerate. Tominimizethenumber
ofactivemeasurements, iconductsaprobeto j onlyif j issee-
ing better application level performance thani to the sources.
We are currently investigating whether we can minimize active
bandwidth measurements by using light-weight probing tech-
niques such as RTT probes and 10 Kilobyte data transfers.
IV. Evaluation
Theprimarygoalofourevaluationistoanswerthefollowing
question: whatperformancepenaltydoesanEndSystemMulti-
castarchitecturesuﬀerascomparedtoIPMulticastwithregard
to both application and network level metrics? To answer this
question, we compare the performance of a scheme for dissem-
inating data under the IPMulticast architectural framework,
withtheperformanceofvariousschemesfordisseminatingdata
under the End System Multicast framework.
Wehaveconductedourevaluationusingbothsimulationand
Internetexperiments. Internetexperimentshelpusunderstand
howschemesfordisseminatingdatabehaveindynamicandun-
predictable real-worldenvironments, and giveusan idea of the
end-to-end performance seen by actual applications. On the
other hand, simulations help analyze the scaling properties of
the End System Multicast architecture with larger group sizes.
Further,theyhelpinunderstandingdetailsofprotocolbehavior
under controlled and repeatable settings.
In the rest of this section, we present schemes that we com-
parefordisseminatingdata,andourperformancemetrics. Sec-
tions V and VI present results for our Internet and simulation
experiments.
A. SchemesCompared
We compare the following schemes for disseminating data in
our simulation and Internet experiments.
•DVMRP: WeassumethatIPMulticastinvolvesconstructing
classical DVMRPlike trees [5], composed of the reverse paths
from the source to each receiver.
• Narada: This represents a scheme that constructs overlay
trees in an informed manner, making use of network metrics
like bandwidth and latency. It is indicative of the performance
one may expect with an End System Multicast architecture,

7
though an alternate protocol may potentially result in better
performance.
• Random: This represents a naive scheme that constructs
random but connected End System Multicast overlays.
• Naive Unicast: Here, the source simultaneously unicasts
data from the source to all receivers. Thus, in a group of size
n,thesourcemustsend n–1 duplicatecopiesofthesamedata.
We note that the network metric considered in Narada im-
pacts overlay performance. We have evaluated Narada-based
schemes that consider: (i) static delay based metrics such as
propagationdelay;(ii)latencyalone;(iii)bandwidthalone;and
(iv) latency and bandwidth. We refer the reader to [3] for de-
tailed results of this study.
B. PerformanceMetrics
Tofacilitateourcomparison,weuseseveralmetricsthatcap-
ture both application and network level performance.
•Latency: Thismetricmeasurestheend-to-enddelayfromthe
source to the receivers, as seen by the application.
• Bandwidth: This metric measures the application level
throughput at the receiver.
•Stress: Werefertothenumberofidenticalcopies ofa packet
carried by a physical link as thestress of a physical link.F o r
example,inFigure1(b),links R1 − R2and A − R1haveastress
of 2 and 3 respectively, while in Figure 1(d), linkR1 − R2h a s
a stress of 1. In general, we would like to keep the stress on all
links as low as possible.
• Resource Usage:We deﬁne resource usage as
∑L
i=1 di ∗ si,
where, L is the number of links active in data transmission,
di is the delay of linki and si is the stress of linki.T h er e -
source usage is a metric of the network resources consumed in
theprocessofdatadeliverytoallreceivers. Implicithereisthe
assumption that links with higher delay tend to be associated
with higher cost. The resource usage is 30 in the case of trans-
missionbyDVMRP,57fornaiveunicastand32forthesmarter
tree , shown in Figure 1(c), Figure 1(b) and Figure 1(d) re-
spectively. Finally,wecomputethe NormalizedResourceUsage
(NRU)ofaschemeastheratiooftheresourceusagewiththat
scheme relative to the resource usage with DVMRP.
•Protocol Overhead:This metric is deﬁned as the ratio of the
totalbytesofnon-datatraﬃcthatentersthenetworktotheto-
tal bytes of data traﬃc that enters the network. The overhead
includes control traﬃc required to keep the overlay connected,
and the probe traﬃc and active bandwidth measurements in-
volved in the self-organization process.
Latency and bandwidth are application level performance
metrics, while all other metrics measure network costs. Not all
applicationscareaboutbothlatencyandbandwidth. Oureval-
uationthusconsiderstheneedsofapplicationswithmorestrin-
gent requirements (such as conferencing), which require both
high bandwidth and low latencies. An architecture that can
support such applications well can potentially also support ap-
plications that care about latency, or bandwidth alone.
C. IssuesinMeasuringPerformanceMetrics
OurInternetandsimulationevaluationpresentsseveralissues
that we discuss.
C.1 Internet Evaluation
The limited deployment of IPMulticast in the real world
makes it diﬃcult to evaluate application level performance us-
ing this architecture. Instead, we approximate this by theSe-
quential Unicast test. Here, we measure the bandwidth and
latency of the unicast path from the source to each recipient
independently (in the absence of other recipients). The above
techniqueprovidesanindicationoftheperformancethatappli-
cations would see with IPMulticast using DVMRPlike trees.
While DVMRPactually results in trees composed of unicast
pathsfromthereceivertothesource(reverse-pathforwarding),
we do not expect this to aﬀect our comparison results.
We compute theresource usage with DVMRPby deriving
thephysicallinksofthetree,aswellasthedelaysoftheselinks,
by doing atraceroute from the source to each receiver.
Our Internet experiments currently do not measure stress.
Measuring this metric requires an accurate knowledge of the
physical paths between all pairs of members.
In our Internet experiments, thelatency metric includes the
propagation and queuing delays of individual overlay links, as
well as queueing delay and processing overhead at end systems
alongthepath. Weideallywishtomeasurethelatencyofeach
individual data packet. However, issues associated with time
synchronizationofhostsandclockskewaddsnoisetoourmea-
surements of one-way delay that is diﬃcult to quantify. There-
fore,wechoosetoestimatetheroundtriptime(RTT).ByRTT,
werefertothetimeittakesforapackettomovefromthesource
toarecipientalongasetofoverlaylinks,andbacktothesource,
using thesame set of overlay links but in reverse order. Thus,
theRTTofanoverlaypath S-A-Risthetimetakentotraverse
S-A-R-A-S. The RTT measurements include all delays associ-
atedwithonewaylatencies,andareideallytwicetheend-to-end
delay.
C.2 Simulation Evaluation
Our simulation experiments are conducted using a locally
written, packet-level, event-based simulator. The simulator as-
sumes shortest delay routing between any two members. The
simulator models the propagation delay of physical links but
does not model bandwidth, queueing delay and packet losses.
This was done for two reasons. First, it is diﬃcult to model
Internet dynamics in a reasonable way in a simulator. Second,
modeling of cross-traﬃc potentially restricts the scalability of
our simulations.
Given these restrictions, not all metrics have been evaluated
in our simulations. In particular, we do not consider the band-
width between members. Second, we assume that delays be-
tween members remains constant, and theLatency metric is
usedinamorestaticsense. Finally,the ProtocolOverhead met-
ric in our simulations does not consider the overhead involved
in members discovering bandwidth to each other.
D. SummarizingPerformanceofSchemes
The objective of our evaluation is to evaluate and compare
theperformanceofvariousschemesfordisseminatingdatawith
respecttoeachoftheperformancemetricslistedinSectionIV-
B. Forametricsuchasresourceusage,itiseasytosummarize
the performance of a scheme. However, it is much more diﬃ-
culttosummarizethelatencyandbandwidthperformancethat
a number of diﬀerent hosts observe with a particular scheme.
One approach is to present the mean bandwidth and latency,
averaged across all receivers. Indeed, we do use this technique
in Sections V-B and VI-C. However, this does not give us an
ideaofthedistributionofperformanceacrossdiﬀerentreceivers.
A simple approach to summarizing an experiment is to ex-
plicitlyspecifythebandwidthandlatenciesthateachindividual
receiversees. Althoughthesetofhostsandsourcetransmission

8
rate are identical, a particular scheme may create a diﬀerent
overlay layout for each experimental run. While an individ-
ual host may observe vastly diﬀerent performance across the
runs, this does not imply that the various overlays are of any
diﬀerent quality. Therefore, we need metrics that capture the
performance of the overlay tree as a whole.
Letusconsiderhowwesummarizeanexperimentwithregard
to a particular metric such as bandwidth or latency. For a set
of n receivers, we sort the average metric value of the various
receivers in ascending order, and assign arankto each receiver
from1ton. Theworst-performingreceiverisassignedarankof
1,andthebest-performingreceiverisassignedarankof n.F o r
every rankr, we gather the results for the receiver with rankr
across all experiments, and compute the mean. Note that the
receiver corresponding to a rankr could vary from experiment
toexperiment. Forexample,theresultforrank 1representsthe
performance that the worst performing receiver would receive
on average in any experiment.
V. Internet Evaluation
OurInternetexperiments areconductedonawide-areatest-
bed with about twenty hosts, including a machine behind
ADSL, and hosts in Asia and Europe. Our evaluation is con-
ducted with our implementation of Narada that has been cus-
tomized to conferencing applications, as described in Section
III-D.
Animportantfactorthataﬀectstheperformanceofascheme
for disseminating data is the degree of heterogeneity in the en-
vironmentweconsider. Tostudytheperformanceofschemesin
environments with diﬀerent degrees of heterogeneity, we create
two groupings of hosts, thePrimary Setand theExtended Set
.T h eExtendedSet includesallhostsinourtest-bed,whilethe
Primary Setconsists of a subset of hosts located at university
sites in North America which are in general well-connected to
each other. There is greater variation in bandwidth and laten-
cies of paths between nodes in theExtended Setas compared
to thePrimarySet .
We begin by presenting our experimental methodology. We
thenpresentresultsinatypicalexperimentruninSectionV-B.
Section V-C provides a detailed comparison of various schemes
for constructing overlays with regard to application level per-
formance, and Section V-D presents results related to network
costs.
A. EvaluationMethodology
The varying nature of Internet performance inﬂuences the
relative results of experiments done at diﬀerent times. Char-
acteristics may change at any time and aﬀect the performance
of various experiments diﬀerently. Ideally, we should test all
schemes for disseminating data concurrently, so that they may
observetheexactsamenetworkconditions. However,thisisnot
possible, as the simultaneously operating schemes would inter-
ferewitheachother. Therefore,weadoptthefollowingstrategy:
(i)weinterleaveexperimentswiththevariousprotocolschemes
that we compare to eliminate biases due to changes that occur
at shorter time scales, and (ii) we run the same experiment at
diﬀerenttimesofthedaytoeliminatebiasesduetochangesthat
occuratalongertimescale. Weaggregatetheresultsobtained
from several runs that have been conducted over a two week
period.
Every individual experiment is conducted in the following
fashion. Allmembersjointhegroupatapproximatelythesame
time. The source multicasts data at a constant rate and after
fourminutes,bandwidthandround-triptimemeasurementsare
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200
Bandwidth (Kbps)
Time (seconds)
Fig.8. MeanBandwidthaveragedoverallreceiversasafunctionoftime.
collected. We vary the source rate to study dependence of re-
sults we see on the source rate. Each experiment lasts for 20
minutes. We adopt the above set-up for all schemes, except
Sequential Unicast. As described in Section IV-C, we approxi-
matetheperformanceof SequentialUnicast bydeterminingthe
bandwidthandlatencyinformationoftheunicastpathfromthe
sourcetoeachreceiver. Wedothisbyunicastingdatafromthe
source to each receiver for two minutes in sequence.
B. ResultswithaTypicalRun
Theresultsinthissectiongiveusanideaofthedynamicna-
tureofoverlayconstruction,andhowthequalityoftheoverlay
varieswithtime. Ourexperimentwasconductedonaweek-day
afternoon, using thePrimary Setof machines and at a source
rate of 1.2 Mbps. The source host is at UCSB.
Figure 8 plots the mean bandwidth seen by a receiver, aver-
aged across all receivers, as a function of time. Each vertical
line denotes a change in the overlay tree for the source UCSB.
We observe that it takes about 150 seconds for the overlay to
improve, and for the hosts to start receiving good bandwidth.
After about 150 seconds, and for most of the session from this
time on, the mean bandwidth observed by a receiver is practi-
callythesourcerate. Thisindicatesthatallreceiversgetnearly
the full source rate throughout the session.
Figure 9 plots the mean RTT to a receiver, averaged across
all receivers as a function of time. The mean RTT is about
100 ms after about 150 seconds, and remains lower than this
value almost throughout the session.
Figures8and9showthatintheﬁrstfewminutesoftheses-
sion,theoverlaymakesmanytopologychangesatveryfrequent
intervals. As members gather more network information, the
quality of the overlay improves over time, and there are fewer
topology changes. In most of our runs, we ﬁnd that the over-
lay converges to a reasonably stable structure after about four
minutes. Given this, we gather bandwidth and RTT statistics
after four minutes for the rest of our experiments.
The ﬁgures above also highlight the adaptive nature of our
scheme. We note that there is a visible dip in bandwidth, and
asharppeakinRTTataround460seconds. Ananalysisofour
logs indicates that this was because of congestion on a link in
theoverlaytree. Theoverlayisabletoadaptbymakingasetof
topologychanges,asindicatedbytheverticallinesimmediately
following the dip, and recovers in about 40 seconds.
WehavealsoevaluatedhowtheRTTstoindividualreceivers
vary during a session and results are presented in [3]. For all
receivers, over 94% of the RTT estimates are less than 200 ms,
while over 98% of the RTT estimates are less than 400 ms.

9
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200
RTT (ms)
Time (seconds)
Fig. 9. Mean RTT averaged over all receivers as a function of time.
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
Mean Bandwidth (Kbps)
Rank
Sequential Unicast
Narada
Random
Fig. 10. Mean bandwidth versus rank at 1.2 Mbps source rate for the
Primary Set of machines
C. ApplicationLevelPerformance
Wepresentourresultsthatcomparetheperformanceofvar-
ious schemes for disseminating data on the Internet in various
environments. We present results for two settings: (i) thePri-
mary Setand a source rate of 1.2 Mbps; and (ii) theExtended
Set and a source rate of 2.4 Mbps. Most pairs of hosts in the
PrimarySet cansustainthroughputsof1.2Mbpsandthusthe
ﬁrstscenariorepresentsarelativelylessheterogeneousenviron-
ment where simpler schemes could potentially work reasonably
well. On the other hand, theExtended Setrepresents an envi-
ronmentwithamuchhigherdegreeofheterogeneity. Increasing
thesourceratesto2.4Mbpsstressestheschemesmore,because
many Internet paths even between well connected university
machinescannotsustainthisrate. Further,severalhostsinour
test-bedarelocatedbehind10Mbpsconnections,andapoorly
constructed overlay can result in congestion near the host.
C.1 Primary Set at 1.2 Mbps Source Rate
Figure 10 plots the mean bandwidth against rank for three
diﬀerent schemes. Each curve corresponds to one scheme, and
each point in the curve corresponds to the mean bandwidth
that a machine of that rank receives with a particular scheme,
averaged across all runs. The error-bars show the standard de-
viation. Thus they do not indicate conﬁdence in the mean,
rather they imply the degree of variability in performance that
a particular scheme for constructing overlays may involve. For
example,theworst-performingmachine(rank1)withthe Ran-
domschemereceivesabandwidthofalittlelowerthan600Kbps
on average. We use this method of presenting data in all our
comparison results.1
1The curves are slightly oﬀset from each other for clarity of presentation.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
Mean RTT (ms)
Rank
Sequential Unicast
Narada
Random
Fig. 11. Mean RTT versus rank at 1.2 Mbps source rate for thePrimary
Set of machines
We wish to make several observations. First, theSequential
Unicast curve indicates that all but one machine get close to
the source rate, as indicated by one of the top lines with a dip
atrank1. Second, Naradaiscomparableto SequentialUnicast.
It is able to ensure that even the worst-performing machine in
any run receives 1150 Kbps on average. Interestingly,Narada
results in much better performance for the worst-performing
m a c h i n ea sc o m p a r e dt oSequential Unicast. It turns out this
is because of the existence of pathologies in Internet routing.
It has been observed that Internet routing is sub-optimal and
thereoftenexistsalternatepathsbetweenendsystemthathave
betterbandwidthandlatencypropertiesthanthedefaultpaths
[19]. Third,Naradaresultsinconsistentlygoodperformance,as
indicated by the small standard deviations. Fourth, theRan-
dom scheme is sub-optimal in bandwidth. On average, the
worst-performing machine with theRandom scheme (rank 1)
getsameanbandwidthofabout600Kbps. Further,theperfor-
manceof Randomcanbequitevariableasindicatedbythelarge
standarddeviation. Webelievethatthispoorperformancewith
Random is because of the inherent variability in Internet path
characteristics, even in relatively well connected settings.
Figure11plotsmeanRTTagainstrankforthesamesetofex-
periments. First,theRTToftheunicastpathsfromthesource
to the recipients can be up to about 150 ms, as indicated by
the lowest line corresponding toSequential Unicast. Second,
Narada is good at optimizing the overlay for delay. The worst
machine in any run has an RTT of about 160 ms on average.
Third, Random performs considerably worse with an RTT of
about 350 ms for the worst machine on average.Random can
have poor latencies because of suboptimal overlay topologies
thatmayinvolvecriss-crossingthecontinent. Inaddition, Ran-
domisunabletoavoiddelaysrelatedtocongestion,particularly
near the participating end hosts.
C.2 Extended Set at 2.4 Mbps Source Rate
Westressourschemeforconstructingoverlaysbyconsidering
extremely heterogeneous environments as represented by the
Extended Set. Given the poor performance ofRandom even in
relatively less heterogeneous settings, wedo not present results
here. Figures 12 and 13 plot the bandwidth and RTT against
host ranks for the four schemes of interest.
The Sequential Unicastcurves show that there are quite a
few members that have low bandwidth and high latencies from
thesource,whichindicatestheheterogeneityinthesetwecon-
sider. Even in such a heterogeneous setting,Narada is able to
achieve a performance close to theSequential Unicast. Apart
from the less well-connected hosts (ranks 1–5), all other mem-

10
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
Mean Bandwidth (Kbps)
Rank
Sequential Unicast
Narada
Fig. 12. Mean bandwidth versus rank at 2.4 Mbps source rate for the
Extended Set of machines
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
Mean RTT (ms)
Rank
Sequential Unicast
Narada
Fig.13. MeanRTTversusrankat2.4Mbpssourcerateforthe Extended
Set of machines
bers get bandwidths of at least 1.8 Mbps, and see RTTs of
less than 250 ms on average. For ranks 1–5,Narada is able to
exploit Internet routing pathologies and provide better perfor-
mancethan SequentialUnicast. Aparticularlystrikingexample
is two machines in Taiwan, only one of which has good perfor-
mancetomachinesinNorthAmerica. Inourruns,themachine
with poorer performance is able to achieve signiﬁcantly better
performance by connecting to the other machine in Taiwan.
C.3 Choice of Network Metrics
In addition to the schemes listed here, we have evaluated
other schemes for constructing overlays in [3]. Overall our re-
sultsindicatethatitisimportanttoexplicitlyoptimizeforboth
latency and bandwidth while supporting applications such as
conferencing. Considering latency alone, or bandwidth alone
leads to degraded performance. Further, the performance with
static delay based metrics such as propagation delay is poor.
The reader is referred to [3] for further details.
D. NetworkLevelMetrics
Table I compares the mean normalized resource usage (Sec-
tionIV-B)oftheoverlaytreesproducedbythevariousschemes
fordiﬀerentenvironmentsandsourcerates. Thevaluesarenor-
malizedwithrespecttotheresourceusagewithDVMRP.Thus,
we would like the normalized resource usage to be as small as
possible, with a value of 1.00 representing an overlay tree that
hasthesameresourceusageasDVMRP.Thetreesconstructed
byNaradacanchangeovertime-weconsidertheﬁnaltreepro-
duced at the end of an experiment. However, we observe that
the overlays produced by these schemes are reasonably stable
after about four minutes.
TABLE I
A verage normalized resource usage of different schemes
Experiment Setup Primary Extended
1.2 Mbps 2.4 Mbps
Naive Unicast 2.62 1.83
Random 2.24 1.97
Narada 1.49 1.31
Min-Span 0.85 0.83
TABLE II
A verage overhead with Narada and a breakdown of the overhead
Experiment Setup Primary Extended
1.2 Mbps 2.4 Mbps
Average Overhead (%) 10.79 14.20
%o f Bandwidth
overhead Probes 92.24 94.30
due to Other 7.76 5.70
We note from Table I thatNarada can result in trees that
make 30–50 % more use of resources thanDVMRP.F u r t h e r ,
Naive Unicasttrees which have all recipients rooted at the
source, and schemes such asRandom that do not explicitly ex-
ploitnetworkinformationhaveahighresourceusage. Wehave
also determined the resource usage ofMin-Span, the minimum
spanning tree of the complete graph of all members, computed
byestimatingthedelaysofalllinksofthecompletegraph. Min-
imum spanning trees are known to be optimal with respect to
resourceusage,andasTableIshows,havelowerresourceusage
than DVMRP. This indicates that an End System Multicast
architecture can indeed make as eﬃcient, if not better use of
networkresourcesthanIPMulticast. However,whileminimum
spanning trees are eﬃcient from the network perspective, it is
not clear that they perform well from the application perspec-
tive.
Table II summarizes the protocol overhead (Section IV-B)
involved inNarada, along with a breakdown of the main fac-
tors that contribute to the overhead. We ﬁnd that the average
overheadisbetween10to15%acrossallsettings. Thisisanin-
dication that even simple heuristics that we have implemented
can keep the overall overhead low. Further, more than 90% of
the overhead is due to members probing each other for band-
width. Other sources of overhead contribute just 3–7% of the
overhead. Theseincludeexchangeofroutingmessagesbetween
neighbors, group management algorithms to keep the overlay
connected,andprobestodeterminethedelayandroutingstate
ofremotemembers. Ourcurrentworkisinvestigatingtheuseof
light-weight probing techniques to further reduce the overhead
due to bandwidth measurements.
VI. Simulation
SectionVdemonstratesthatanEndSystemMulticastarchi-
tecture can perform quite well in realistic Internet settings. In
thissection,westudytheperformanceissueswithlargergroup
sizesusingsimulationexperiments. Webeginbypresentingfac-
tors that aﬀect the evaluation. We then present our simulation
setup, and our results.
A. FactorsAﬀectingPerformance
A key factor that aﬀects our comparison results is the topol-
ogy model used in our simulations. We used three diﬀerent

11
modelstogeneratebackbonetopologiesforoursimulation. For
each model of the backbone, wemodeled members as being at-
tached directly to the backbone topology. Each member was
attachedtoarandomrouter,andwasassignedarandomdelay
of 1−4ms.
•Waxman: Themodelconsidersasetof nverticesonasquare
intheplaneandplacesanedgebetweentwopointswithaprob-
ability ofαe
−d
β∗L,w h e r eL is the length of the longest possible
edge, d is a random variable between 0 andL,a n dα and β
are parameters. We use the Georgia Tech. [22] random graph
generators to generate topologies of this model.
• Mapnet: Backbone connectivity and delay are modeled af-
ter actual ISPbackbones that could span multiple continents.
Connectivity information is obtained from the CAIDA Mapnet
project database [9]. Link delays are assigned based on geo-
graphical distance between nodes.
• Autonomous System map (ASMap): Backbone connec-
tivity information is modeled after inter-domain Internet
connectivity. This information is collected by a route
server from BGProuting tables of multiple geographically
distributedrouterswithBGPconnectionstotheserver[8]. This
datahasbeenanalyzedin[6]andhasbeenshowntosatisfycer-
tainpowerlaws. Randomlinkdelaysof8 −12mswasassigned
to each physical link.
In our simulations, we used backbone topology sizes consist-
ing of around 1070 members and multicast groups of up to
256 members. We used a Waxman topology consisting of 1024
routers and 3145 links, an ASMap topology consisting of 1024
routers and 3037 links and a Mapnet topology consisting of
1070 routers and 3170 links. We have also studied the impact
of varying topology size for each topology model in [4].
With Narada, each member in the data delivery tree has a
degree that is dynamically conﬁgured based on the available
bandwidthnearamember. Ifamemberhastoomanychildren,
thiscouldresultincongestionnearthememberandadecrease
in the available bandwidth. Narada can adapt dynamically to
such a situation by detecting the fall in bandwidth and having
children move away. However, given that our simulator does
not consider Internet dynamics, we model the impact of this
artiﬁcially by imposing restrictions on the degree. We do this
usingaparametercalledthe fanoutrange. Thefanoutrangeof
a member is the minimum and maximum number of neighbors
each member strives to maintain in the mesh. An increase of
the fanout range could decrease mesh diameter and result in
better delay performance. However, it could potentially result
in higher stress on links near members. All results presented
hereassumeafanoutrangeof <3–6 >. Wehaveinvestigated
theimpactofvaryingfanoutrangeandthereaderisreferredto
[4] for more details.
B. SimulationSetup
All experiments we report here are conducted in the follow-
ing manner. A ﬁxed number of members join the group in
the ﬁrst 100 seconds of the simulation in random sequence. A
member that joins is assumed to contain a list of all members
that joined the group previously. After 100 seconds, there is
no further change in group membership. One sender is cho-
sen at random to multicast data at a constant rate. We allow
thesimulationtorunfor40minutes. Inallexperiments,neigh-
borsexchangeroutingmessagesevery30seconds. Eachmember
probesonerandomgroupmemberevery10secondstoevaluate
performance.
DVMRP
Narada
Unicast
1
2
4
8
16
32
64
128
256
512
1 2 4 8 16 32 64 128
# of Physical Links (log-scale)
Stress of Physical Link (log-scale)
Unicast
DVMRP
Narada
Fig. 14. No. of physical links with a given stress vs. Stress for naive
unicast, Narada and DVMRP
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Worst Case Physical Link Stress
Group Size
ASMap-Narada
Waxman-Narada
Mapnet-Narada
Fig. 15. Worst case physical link stress vs. group size for topologies for
three models using Narada
C. SimulationResults
For all results in this section, we compute each data point
by conducting 25 independent simulation experiments and we
plotthemeanwith95%conﬁdenceintervals. Duetospacecon-
straints,wepresentplotsofselectedexperimentsandsummarize
results of other experiments.
C.1 Stress
Togetabetterunderstandingofthestressmetric,weconsider
theperformanceseeninatypicalexperimentconductedusinga
topology generated by the Waxman model and a group size of
128 members. One of the members is picked as source at ran-
dom,andweevaluatethestressofeachphysicallink. Westudy
the variation of physical link stress under Narada and compare
the results we obtain with physical stress under DVMRPand
naive unicast in Figure 14. Here, the horizontal axis represents
stress and the vertical axis represents the number of physical
links with a given stress. The stress of any physical link is at
most 1 for DVMRP, indicated by a solitary dot. Under both
naive unicast and Narada, most links have a small stress - this
is to be expected. However, the signiﬁcance lies in the tail of
theplots. Undernaiveunicast,onelinkhasastressof127and
quite a few links have a stress above 16. This is unsurprising
considering that links near the source are likely to experience
high stress. Narada however distributes the stress more evenly
across physical links, and no physical link has a stress larger
than 9. While this is high compared to DVMRP, it is a 14-fold
improvement over naive unicast.
Figure15plotsthevariationofworstcasephysicallinkstress
againstgroupsizeforthreetopologieswithNarada. Eachcurve

12
0
50
100
150
200
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Mean Delay
Group Size
Random
Narada
DVMRP
ASMap
Waxman
Mapnet
Fig. 16. Mean receiver delay with Narada, Random and DVMRP as a
function of group size for 3 topology models. The curves are bunched
into three families depending on the scheme used. Within each family,
the legend indicates the performance for a particular topology model.
corresponds to one topology model. Each point corresponds to
themeanworstcasestressforaparticulargroupsize,averaged
over25experiments,andplottedwith95%conﬁdenceintervals.
We observe that the curves are close to each other for small
group sizes but seem to diverge for larger group sizes. Further,
for all topologies, worst case stress increases with group size.
Thus,foragroupsizeof64,meanworstcasestressisabout5 −7
across the three topologies, while for a group size of 256, it is
about8 −14. Webelievethisincreaseofstresswithgroupsizeis
an artifact of the small topologies in a simulation environment
relativetotheactualInternetbackbone. Thereaderisreferred
to [4] for a further discussion.
Finally, we have also evaluated stress withRandom.O u r
results indicate thatRandom tends to result in slightly higher
stressthan Naradaacrossalltopologymodels,andweomitthe
results for clarity.
C.2 Delay Results
Figure16plotsthemeandelayexperiencedbyareceiverusing
Random,Narada andDVMRP, as a function of group size for
three diﬀerent topology models. Each curve corresponds to a
particularscheme,andaparticulartopologymodel. Eachpoint
representsthemeanreceiverdelayforthatgroupsizeaveraged
over25experiments,plottedwith95%conﬁdenceintervals. For
example,themeanreceiverdelaywithNaradausingthe ASMap
topology is about 50msfor a group size of 16.
The curves are bunched into three families: the topmost set
of curves correspond toRandom, the lowest set corresponds to
DVMRP and the set in between corresponds toNarada.F o ra
range of group sizes and all topology models,Narada outper-
formsRandom, but does not do as well asDVMRP. For exam-
ple,foragroupsizeof16members,themeanreceiverdelaywith
Random varies between 70−80ms depending on the topology
model,whilethemeandelaywith Naradaisbetween40 −55ms,
and the mean delay withDVMRP is around 25−30ms,
Foralltopologymodels,themeandelaywith DVMRP isrel-
ativelyindependentofgroupsize. However,theperformanceof
both Narada andRandom tends to degrade with larger group
size. For a group size of 256 members, the mean delay with
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Normalized Resource Usage
Group Size
Naive Unicast
Random
Narada
Fig. 17. Eﬀect of group size on NRU : Narada, Random and Naive
Unicast
Narada is about 70 – 105 ms and about 150 – 170 ms forRan-
dom, depending on the topology model.
C.3 Resource Usage
Figure 17 plots the normalized resource usage (NRU)
against group size for the Waxman model alone. The results
are normalized with respect to IPMulticast. The lowest curve
corresponds toNarada, while the two upper curves correspond
toRandom andNaiveUnicast respectively. First, Narada con-
sumeslessnetworkresourcesthan NaiveUnicast andRandom,
acrossallgroupsizes. Foragroupsizeof16,theNRUisabout
1.3 forNarada, while the NRU is about 1.6 forNaive Unicast
and Random. Second, NRU tends to increase with group size
forallschemes. Foragroupsizeof128,theNRUforNaradais
about 1.9a n d2.4 forNaiveUnicast andRandom. While these
results are reasonable, we believe the performance of Narada
with regard to resource usage could be even more signiﬁcant if
members are clustered. We have repeated this study with the
MapnetandASMaptopologiesandobservesimilartrends. For
all topologies, the NRU is at most 1.9 for a group size of 128.
C.4 Protocol Overhead
In our simulations experiments,Protocol Overheaddoes not
measure the cost of bandwidth probes, which we found as the
chiefsourceofoverheadinourInternetresults. Thus,thismet-
ric measures overhead mainly due to routing and group man-
agement associated with Narada. We ﬁnd that the protocol
overheadduetothesefactorsincreaseslinearlywithgroupsize,
however this is not signiﬁcant for the group sizes we consider.
For a source data rate of 128 kbps, the protocol overhead is
about 2% for a group size of 64 members, and 4% for a group
size of 128 members. Finally, we note that the control traﬃc
that Narada introduces is independent of source data rate and
thustheprotocoloverheadisevenlowerforhighersourcerates.
VII. Discussion
We begin by summarizing results from our simulation and
Internet experiments and then discuss some open issues.
A. SummaryofResults
Our key results are as follows:
•ApplicationLevelPerformance: OurInternetresultsdemon-
strate that End System Multicast can meet the bandwidth re-
quirementsofapplicationsandatthesametimeachievelowla-
tencies. InInternetexperimentswiththe PrimarySet,allhosts
sustain over 95% of the source rate and achieve latencies lower

13
than 80ms,W i t ht h eExtended Set, the mean performance at-
tainedbyeachreceiveriscomparabletotheperformanceofthe
unicast path from the source to that receiver. Our simulation
results match these numbers, and indicate that the penalty in
delayislowevenformediumsizegroups. Forarangeoftopol-
ogymodels,theratioofthemeandelaywith Naradarelativeto
themeandelaywith DVMRP islessthan1 .7forgroupsofsize
16, and less than 3.5 for groups of 256 members.
• Stress: Our simulation results demonstrate that Narada re-
sults in a low worst case stress for small group sizes. For ex-
ample, for a group size of 16, the worst case stress is about 5.
While for larger group sizes, worst case stress may be higher,
it is still much lower than unicast. For example, for a group of
128 members, Narada reduces worst case stress by a factor of
14 compared to unicast.
• Resource Usage: Our Internet results demonstrate that
Narada may incur a resource usage that is about 30−50%
higher than with DVMRP, while it can improve resource usage
by 30−45% compared to naive unicast. Again, our simulation
results are consistent with our Internet results, and indicate
that the performance with respect to this metric is good even
formediumsizedgroups. Theresourceusageisabout35 −55%
higher than with DVMRPfor group sizes of 16 members, and
about a factor of two higher for group sizes of 128 members.
Further,webelievethattheperformanceinresourceusagemay
be even better if we consider clustered group members.
• Protocol Overhead:Our Internet experiments demonstrate
that Narada can have a protocol overhead of about 10 – 15 %
for groups up to 20 members. Over 90% of this overhead is
members probing each other for bandwidth. To reduce the
cost of bandwidth probes further, we are currently exploring
light-weight probing techniques based on RTT measurements,
transfers of 10 kilobyte data chunks and bottleneck bandwidth
measurements. Ourinitialexperiencesuggeststhattheselight-
weight probing techniques are promising and can be quite ef-
fective at controlling overhead. Our simulation experiments on
the other hand do not involve bandwidth probes. Our results
indicate that the overhead due to other factors (e.g. routing
and group management) is not signiﬁcant for the group sizes
we consider.
B. OpenIssues
Overall our results suggest that End System Multicast can
achieve good performance for small and medium sized groups
involving tens to hundreds of members. The question then is:
cananEndSystemMulticastarchitecturescaletosupportmuch
largergroupsizes? Basedonourexperience,webelievethefol-
lowing issues need to be addressed:
• As the group size increases, the number of overlay hops be-
tween any pair of members increases, and hence the delay be-
tween them potentially increases(e.g., Figure 16). A careful
analysisthatinvestigatesfundamentalperformancelimitsofan
overlay approach for large group sizes would provide valuable
insight on the feasibility of the End System Multicast architec-
ture for large scale interactive applications.
•While we have demonstrated that End System Multicast can
ensuregoodapplicationperformanceoverlongertimescales,we
have not investigated performance of applications over shorter
timescales. Eventssuchasfailureofmembers,membersleaving
the group, or network congestion can potentially result in poor
transientperformance,particularlyforinteractiveapplications.
Whilethisisanissuethatmustbeinvestigatedevenforsmaller
groups, it could be a greater concern for larger group sizes, as
they could encounter a much higher frequency of such events.
•Aself-improvingoverlayapproachincursoverheadduetoac-
tive measurements, and takes time to converge into an eﬃcient
structure. As group size increases, it is not clear whether an
End System Multicast approach can keep probe overhead low
and construct eﬃcient overlays quickly.
While the above issues need to be addressed to determine
the viability of an End System Multicast approach for larger
group sizes, certain design decisions taken in the current ver-
sionoftheNaradaprotocolmaypreventitfromscalingtolarger
groupsizes. InNarada,eachmembermaintainsinformationre-
garding all other group members. This is a deliberate design
choice that has been motivated by two reasons. First, Narada
does not rely on external nodes for normal protocol operation.
Whileitdoesuseanout-of-bandmechanismforbootstrapping,
failure of this mechanism prevents new members from joining
the group, but existing group members may continue to com-
municate with each other. Second, Narada has been designed
withtheobjectiveofre-establishingconnectivityamongpartic-
ipating group members even under failure modes involving the
simultaneous death of a signiﬁcant fraction of group members.
While maintaining full group membership information helps to
achieve these goals, it leads to the concern that the costs of
maintaining such information may be prohibitively expensive
for larger sized groups.
In this paper, we have made minimal assumptions regarding
support from network infrastructure, both in terms of the ro-
bustnesspropertiesofendsystems,andthenetworkinformation
available for overlay construction. We believe that scalability
can be achieved more easily by making additional assumptions
aboutthecompositionoftheendsystems,thefailuremodelsof
hosts and the availability of external mechanisms for collecting
networkinformation. Wedescriberecenteﬀortsinthisdirection
inSectionVIII. Further,wearecurrentlyexploringtheseissues
in the context of proxy-based End System Multicast architec-
tures. Sucharchitecturesconsistofasetofmorerobustorstable
nodes that are not likely to all fail with high probability. This
cangreatlysimplifythedesignofself-organizingprotocols,and
enablemorescalablesolutions. Inaddition,proxiesareassumed
tobepersistentwithlong-livedrelationshipsamongthem. This
reduces the need for active measurements in creating overlays
and helps in quick instantiation of eﬃcient overlays.
VIII. Related Work
Since the initial proposal of End System Multicast [4], sev-
eral other researchers have begun advocating an overlay based
approachformulticastcommunication[2],[10],[13],[15]. Archi-
tecturally, proposalsforoverlaybasedmulticasthaveprimarily
diﬀered on whether they assume a peer-to-peer architecture,
or a proxy (infrastructure) based architecture. Yoid [10], and
ALMI [15] emphasize peer-to-peer settings. In contrast, Scat-
tercast [2], and Overcast [13] argue for infrastructure support.
We view both these architectures as interesting and plan to
look at the challenges and constraints speciﬁc to each architec-
ture in the future. Further, ALMI [15] advocates a completely
centralizedsolution,andplacesallresponsibilityforgroupman-
agement, and overlay computation with a central controller.
As the research community has begun to acknowledge the
importance of overlay based architectures, self-organizing pro-
tocols for constructing overlays have emerged as an important
ﬁeldofstudy. Mostoftheearlierproposedprotocolsfallintwo
broad categories that we summarize below:

14
•ProtocolslikeYoid[10],BTP[11]andOvercast[13]construct
trees directly - that is, members explicitly select their parents
from among the members that they know. While Overcast
targets single source broadcasting applications, and constructs
trees rooted at the source, Yoid constructs a single shared tree
for all sources.
• Narada and Gossamer [2] construct trees in a two-step pro-
cess: they ﬁrst construct eﬃcient meshes among participating
members,andinthesecondstepconstructspanningtreesofthe
mesh using well known routing algorithms. A mesh-based ap-
proachhasbeenmotivatedbytheneedtosupportmulti-source
applications, such as conferencing. Single shared trees are not
optimizedfortheindividualsourceandaresusceptibletoacen-
tralpointoffailure. Analternativetoconstructingsharedtrees
isexplicitlyconstructingmultipleoverlaytrees,onetreeforeach
source. However,thisapproachneedstodealwiththeoverhead
of maintaining and optimizing multiple overlays.
Recently, researchers have begun designing self-organizing
protocols that can scale to very large group sizes. Again, these
newer protocols have taken two diﬀerent approaches:
•DelaunayTriangulations[14],CAN[16]andBayuex[23]as-
signtomembersaddressesfromsomeabstractcoordinatespace,
and neighbor mappings are based on these addresses. For ex-
ample,CANassignslogicaladdressesfromcartesiancoordinates
on an n-dimensional torus. [14] assigns points to a plane and
determines neighbor mappings corresponding to the Delaunay
triangulation of the set of points. Determining neighbor map-
pings based on member addresses enables routing of messages
based on the addresses, and full ﬂedged routing protocols such
as distance vector algorithms are not required. Each member
needstomaintainknowledgeaboutonlyasmallsubsetofmem-
bersenablingtheprotocolstoscalebettertolargergroupsizes.
However, in contrast to tree and mesh-based approaches, these
protocols impose rules on neighbor relationships that are dic-
tated by addresses assigned to hosts rather than performance.
This may involve a performance penalty in constructed over-
lays and could complicate dealing with dynamic metrics such
as available bandwidth.
• The Nice project [1] and Kudos [12] achieve better scaling
propertiesthanNaradabyorganizingmembersintohierarchies
of clusters. Kudos constructs a two level hierarchy with a
Naradalikeprotocolateachlevelofthehierarchy. [1]constructs
amulti-levelhierarchy,anddoesnotinvolveuseofatraditional
routingprotocol. Aconcernwithhierarchy-basedapproachesis
that they complicate group management, and need to rely on
external nodes to simplify failure recovery.
Toourknowledge,oursisperhapstheﬁrstworkthathascon-
ducted a detailed Internet evaluation to analyze the feasibility
of an overlay based architecture. Our work has shown that it
is important to dynamically adapt to bandwidth and latency
[3], and we have incorporated techniques in Narada that help
toachievethisgoal. Incontrast,mostotherworkshaveconsid-
ered delay based metrics, and not dealt with important issues
pertaining to the dynamic nature of network metrics.
IX. Conclusion
Wehavemadetwocontributionsinthispaper. First,wehave
shown that for small and medium sized multicast groups, it is
feasible to use an end system overlay approach toeﬃciently
support all multicast related functionality including member-
ship management and packet replication. The shifting of mul-
ticast support from routers to end systems, while introducing
some performance penalties, has the potential to address most
problems associated with IPMulticast. We have shown, with
bothsimulationandInternetexperiments,thattheperformance
penaltiesarelowinthecaseofsmallandmediumsizedgroups.
We believe that the potential beneﬁts of transferring multicast
functionalityfromendsystemstorouterssigniﬁcantlyoutweigh
the performance penalty incurred.
Second,wehaveproposedoneoftheﬁrstself-organizingand
self-improving protocols that constructs an overlay network on
topofadynamic,unpredictableandheterogeneousInterneten-
vironment without relying on a native multicast medium. We
also believe this is among the ﬁrst works that attempts to sys-
tematicallyevaluatetheperformanceofaself-organizingoverlay
network protocol and the tradeoﬀs in using overlay networks.
Further, we believe that the techniques and insights developed
inthispaperareapplicabletooverlaynetworksincontextsother
than multicast.
Ourcurrentworkinvolvesstudyingmechanismsthatcanen-
sure robust transient performance of applications in environ-
mentswithhighlydynamicgroupmembership,andhighlyvari-
able network characteristics. Further, while in this work we
havemadeconservativeassumptionsregardingthecomposition
ofendsystemsandtheirfailuremodes,wearecurrentlyinvesti-
gatinghowwemaytakeadvantageofproxy-basedEndSystem
Multicast architectures.
References
[1] S. Banerjee, B.Bhattacharjee, and S.Parthasarathy. A Protocol for Scalable
Application Layer Multicast. Technical report, University of Maryland,
July 2001. CS-TR 4278.
[2] Y. Chawathe. Scattercast: An Architecture for Internet Broadcast Distri-
bution as an Infrastructure Service. Fall 2000. Ph.D. thesis.
[3] Y. Chu, S.G. Rao, S. Seshan, and H. Zhang. Enabling Conferencing Ap-
plications on the Internet using an Overlay Multicast Architecture. In
Proceedings of ACM Sigcomm , August 2001.
[4] Y. Chu, S.G. Rao, and H. Zhang. A Case for End System Multicast. In
Proceedings of ACM Sigmetrics , June 2000.
[5] S. Deering. Multicast Routing in Internetworks and Extended LANs. In
Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM , August 1988.
[6] C. Faloutsos, M. Faloutsos, and P. Faloutsos. On Power-law Relationships
of the Internet Topology. InProceedings of ACM Sigcomm , August 1999.
[7] S. Floyd, M. Handley, J. Padhye, and J. Widmer. Equation-based Con-
gestion Control for Unicast Applications. InProceedings of the ACM SIG-
COMM, August 2000.
[8] National Laboratory for Applied Network Research. Routing data.
http://moat.nlanr.net/Routing/rawdata/.
[9] Cooperative Association for Internet Data Analysis. Mapnet project.
http://www.caida.org/Tools/Mapnet/Data/.
[10] P. Francis. Yoid: Your Own Internet Distribution,
http://www.aciri.org/yoid/. April 2000.
[11] D.A. Helder and S. Jamin. End-host multicast communication using
switch-tree protocols. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Global and Peer-
to-Peer Computing on Large Scale Distributed Systems (GP2PC) , May 2002.
[12] S. Jain, R.Mahajan, D.Wetherall, G.Borriello, and S.D. Gribble. Scalable
Self-Organizing Overlays. Technical report UW-CSE 02-02-02, University
of Washington, February 2002.
[13] J. Jannotti, D. Giﬀord, K. L. Johnson, M. F. Kaashoek, and J. W. O’Toole
Jr. Overcast: Reliable Multicasting with an Overlay Network. InProceed-
ings of the Fourth Symposium on Operating System Design and Implementa-
tion (OSDI), October 2000.
[14] J. Jannotti, D. Giﬀord, K. L. Johnson, M. F. Kaashoek, and J. W. O’Toole
Jr. Application-layer Multicast with Delaunay Triangulations. In IEEE
Globecom, November 2001.
[15] D. Pendarakis, S. Shi, D. Verma, and M. Waldvogel. ALMI: An Application
Level Multicast Infrastructure. InProceedings of 3rd Usenix Symposium on
Internet Technologies & Systems (USITS) , March 2001.
[16] Sylvia Ratnasamy, Mark Handley, Richard Karp, and Scott Shenker.
Application-level Multicast using Content-Addressable Networks. InPro-
ceedings of NGC, 2001.
[17] Y. Rekhter and T. Li. A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4), RFC 1771,
March 1995.
[18] J. Saltzer, D. Reed, and D. Clark. End-to-end Arguments in System De-
sign. ACM Transactions on Computer Systems , 2(4):195–206, 1984.
[19] S. Savage, A. Collins, E. Hoﬀman, J.Snell, and T. Anderson. The End-to-

15
end Eﬀects of Internet Path Selection. In Proceedings of ACM Sigcomm ,
August 1999.
[20] F.B. Schneider. Byzantine Generals in action: Implementing fail-stop pro-
cessors. ACM transactions on Computer Systems, 2(2) , pages 145–154, 1984.
[21] Z. Wang and J. Crowcroft. Bandwidth-delay Based Routing Algorithms.
In IEEE GlobeCom, November 1995.
[22] E. W. Zegura, K. L. Calvert, and S. Bhattacharjee. How to Model an
Internetwork. In Proceedings of IEEE Infocom , March 1996.
[23] S.Q. Zhuang, B.Y.Zhao, A.D.Joseph, R.H.Katz, and J.D.Kubiatowicz.
Bayeux: An Architecture for Scalable and Fault-tolerant Wide-Area Data
Dissemination. In Proceedings of NOSSDA V, April 2001.
Y ang-hua Chu is a Ph.D. student in Computer Sci-
ence at Carnegie Mellon University. He received the
B.S and M.Eng. degrees from the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology in 1996 and 1997, respectively.
His research interests lie in overlay networks, with
an emphasis on building systems and services that
can be deployed on the Internet. His web page is at
http://www.cs.cmu.edu/˜yhchu.
Sanjay Rao is currently a doctoral candidate at the
School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon Uni-
versity. He received the B.Tech degree in Computer
Science and Engineering from the Indian Institute of
Technology, Madras in 1997, and the MS degree in
Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University
in 2000. His research interests include overlay net-
work design, peer-to-peer networks and multicast and
other technologies that enable eﬃcient group com-
munication over the Internet. His web page is at
http://www.cs.cmu.edu/˜sanjay.
Srinivasan Seshan is currently an Assistant Profes-
sor at Carnegie Mellon University’s Computer Science
Department. Dr. Seshan received his Ph.D. in 1995
from the Computer Science Department at Univer-
sity of California, Berkeley. From 1995 to 2000, Dr.
Seshan was a research staﬀ member at IBM’s T.J.
Watson Research Center. Dr. Seshan’s primary in-
terests are in the broad areas of network protocols
and distributed network applications. In the past, he
has worked on topics such as transport/routing proto-
col interactions with wireless networks, fast protocol
stack implementations, RAID system design, perfor-
mance prediction for Internet transfers, ﬁrewall design, and improvements to
the TCP protocol. His current work includes overlay network design, Web server
benchmarking, mobile computing/networking, and new approaches to conges-
tion control. His web page is at http://www.cs.cmu.edu/˜srini.
Hui Zhang (M’ 95/ ACM’ 95) is the Chief Techni-
cal Oﬃcer of Turin Networks and the Finmeccanica
Associate Professor at the School of Computer Sci-
ence of Carnegie Mellon University. He received the
B.S. degree in Computer Science from Beijing Uni-
versity in 1988, the M.S. degree in Computer Engi-
neering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1989,
and the Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from the
University of California at Berkeley in 1993. Hui
Zhang’s research interests are in Internet, QoS, Mul-
ticast, peer-to-peer systems, and metro networks. He
received the National Science Foundation CAREER
Award in 1996 and the Alfred Sloan Fellowship in 2000. His homepage is at
http://www.cs.cmu.edu/˜hzhang.