Efﬁcient Replica Maintenance for Distributed Storage Systems
Byung-Gon Chun,† Frank Dabek,⋆ Andreas Haeberlen,‡ Emil Sit,⋆ Hakim Weatherspoon,†
M. Frans Kaashoek, ⋆ John Kubiatowicz,† and Robert Morris ⋆
⋆ MIT Computer Science and Artiﬁcial Intelligence Laboratory,
‡ Rice University/MPI-SWS, † University of California, Berkeley
Abstract
This paper considers replication strategies for storage systems
that aggregate the disks of many nodes spread over the Internet.
Maintaining replication in such systems can be prohibitively ex-
pensive, since every transient network or host failure could po-
tentially lead to copying a server’s worth of data over the Internet
to maintain replication levels.
The following insights in designing an efﬁcient replication al-
gorithm emerge from the paper’s analysis. First, durability can
be provided separately from availability; the former is less ex-
pensive to ensure and a more useful goal for many wide-area ap-
plications. Second, the focus of a durability algorithm must be
to create new copies of data objects faster than permanent disk
failures destroy the objects; careful choice of policies for what
nodes should hold what data can decrease repair time. Third,
increasing the number of replicas of each data object does not
help a system tolerate a higher disk failure probability, but does
help tolerate bursts of failures. Finally, ensuring that the system
makes use of replicas that recover after temporary failure is crit-
ical to efﬁciency.
Based on these insights, the paper proposes the Carbonite
replication algorithm for keeping data durable at a low cost. A
simulation of Carbonite storing 1 TB of data over a 365 day
trace of PlanetLab activity shows that Carbonite is able to keep
all data durable and uses 44% more network trafﬁc than a hy-
pothetical system that only responds to permanent failures. In
comparison, Total Recall and DHash require almost a factor of
two more network trafﬁc than this hypothetical system.
1 Introduction
Wide-area distributed storage systems typically use repli-
cation to provide two related properties: durability and
availability. Durability means that objects that an applica-
tion has put into the system are not lost due to disk failure
whereas availability means that get will be able to return
the object promptly. Objects can be durably stored but not
This research was supported by the National Science Founda-
tion under Cooperative Agreement No. ANI-0225660, http://
project-iris.net/. Andreas Haeberlen was supported in part
by the Max Planck Society . Emil Sit was supported in part by the
Cambridge-MIT Institute. Hakim Weatherspoon was supported by an
Intel Foundation PhD Fellowship.
immediately available: if the only copy of an object is on
the disk of a node that is currently powered off, but will
someday re-join the system with disk contents intact, then
that object is durable but not currently available. The pa-
per’s goal is to develop an algorithm to store immutable
objects durably and at a low bandwidth cost in a system
that aggregates the disks of many Internet nodes.
The threat to durability is losing the last copy of an ob-
ject due to permanent failures of disks. Efﬁciently coun-
tering this threat to durability involves three main chal-
lenges. First, network bandwidth is a scarce resource in
a wide-area distributed storage system. To store objects
durably, there must be enough network capacity to cre-
ate copies of objects faster than they are lost due to disk
failure. Second, a system cannot always distinguish be-
tween transient failures and permanent disk failures: it
may waste network bandwidth by creating new copies
during transient failures. Third, after recovery from tran-
sient failures, some replicas may be on nodes that the
replica lookup algorithm does not query and are thus ef-
fectively lost.
Since transient failures are common in wide-area sys-
tems, replication algorithms can waste bandwidth by mak-
ing unneeded replicas. For example, the initial replica-
tion algorithm [6] that the DHash distributed hash table
(DHT) [9] turned out to be inadequate to build storage ap-
plications such as UsenetDHT [34], Antiquity [11], and
OverCite [35, 36].
A problem with DHash was that its design was driven
by the goal of achieving 100% availability; this decision
caused it to waste bandwidth by creating new replicas in
response to temporary failures. Its design and similar ones
(such as Total Recall [3]) are overkill for durability. Fur-
thermore, users of many Internet applications can tolerate
some unavailability. For example, Usenet readers will see
all articles eventually, as long as they are stored durably.
Our experience with these DHT applications has led us to
the following insights:
• Durability is a more practical and useful goal than
availability for applications that store objects (as op-
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & ImplementationUSENIX Association 45
 

posed to caching objects).
• The main goal of a durability algorithm should be to
create new copies of an object faster than they are
destroyed by disk failures; the choice of how repli-
cas are distributed among nodes can make this task
easier.
• Increasing the replication level does not help tolerate
a higher average permanent failure rate, but it does
help cope with bursts of failures.
• Reintegrating returning replicas is key to avoiding
unnecessary copying.
Using these insights we have developed Carbonite, an
efﬁcient wide-area replication algorithm for keeping ob-
jects durable. After inserting a set of initial replicas, Car-
bonite begins by creating new replicas mostly in response
to transient failures. However, over time it is increasingly
able to ignore transient failures and approaches the goal of
only producing replicas in response to permanent failures.
Carbonite’s design assumes that the disks in the dis-
tributed storage system fail independently of each other:
failures of geographically distributed hard drives from dif-
ferent manufacturers are likely to be uncorrelated.
In a year-long PlanetLab failure trace, however, we ob-
serve some correlated failures because of coordinated re-
installs of the PlanetLab software. Despite this, an evalua-
tion using the PlanetLab failure trace shows that Carbonite
is able to keep 1 TB of data durable, and consumes only
44% more network trafﬁc than a hypothetical system that
only responds to permanent failures. In comparison, To-
tal Recall and DHash require almost a factor of two more
network trafﬁc than this hypothetical system.
The rest of this paper explains our durability models
and algorithms, interleaving evaluation results into the ex-
planation. Section 2 describes the simulated evaluation
environment. Section 3 presents a model of the relation-
ship between network capacity, amount of replicated data,
number of replicas, and durability. Section 4 explains
how to decrease repair time, and thus increase durabil-
ity, by proper placement of replicas on servers. Section 5
presents an algorithm that reduces the bandwidth wasted
making copies due to transient failures. Section 6 outlines
some of the challenges that face practical implementations
of these ideas, Section 7 discusses related work, and Sec-
tion 8 concludes.
2 System environment
The behavior of a replication algorithm depends on the
environment in which it is used: high disk failure rates or
low network access link speeds make it difﬁcult for any
system to maintain durability. We will use the character-
istics of the PlanetLab testbed as a representative environ-
ment when evaluating wide-area replication techniques.
Dates 1 March 2005 – 28 Feb 2006
Number of hosts 632
Number of transient failures 21255
Number of disk failures 219
Transient host downtime (s) 1208, 104647, 14242
Any failure interarrival (s) 305, 1467, 3306
Disk failures interarrival (s) 54411, 143476, 490047
(Median/Mean/90th percentile)
Table 1: CoMon+PLC trace characteristics.
For explanatory purposes, we will also use a synthetic
trace that makes some of the underlying trends more vis-
ible. This section describes both environments, as well as
the simulator we used to evaluate our algorithm.
2.1 PlanetLab characteristics
PlanetLab is a large ( > 600 node) research testbed [28]
with nodes located around the world. We chose this
testbed as our representative environment mainly because
it is a large, distributed collection of machines that has
been monitored for long periods; we use this monitoring
data to construct a realistic trace of failures in a mostly
managed environment.
The main characteristics of PlanetLab that interest us
are the rates of disk and transient failures. We use histor-
ical data collected by the CoMon project [25] to identify
transient failures. CoMon has archival records collected
on average every 5 minutes that include the uptime as re-
ported by the system uptime counter on each node. We
use resets of this counter to detect reboots, and we esti-
mate the time when the node became unreachable based
on the last time CoMon was able to successfully contact
the node. This allows us to pinpoint failures without de-
pending on the reachability of the node from the CoMon
monitoring site.
We deﬁne a disk failure to be any permanent loss of
disk contents, due to disk hardware failure or because its
contents are erased accidentally or intentionally. In or-
der to identify disk failures, the CoMon measurements
were supplemented with event logs from PlanetLab Cen-
tral [28]. This database automatically records each time
a PlanetLab node is reinstalled (e.g., for an upgrade, or
after a disk is replaced following a failure). The machine
is then considered ofﬂine until the machine is assigned a
regular boot state in the database. Table 1 summarizes the
statistics of this trace. Figure 7(a) visualizes how transient
and disk failures accumulate over time in this network.
2.2 Synthetic trace
We also generated synthetic traces of failures by drawing
failure inter-arrival times from exponential distributions.
Synthetic traces have two beneﬁts. First, they let us sim-
ulate longer time periods, and second, they allow us to
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & Implementation USENIX Association46

increase the failure density, which makes the basic under-
lying trends more visible. We conjecture that exponential
inter-failure times are a good model for disks that are in-
dependently acquired and operated at geographically sep-
arated sites; exponential intervals are possibly not so well
justiﬁed for transient failures due to network problems.
Each synthetic trace contains 632 nodes, just like the
PlanetLab trace. The mean session time and downtime
match the values shown in Table 1; however, in order to
increase the failure density, we extended the length to two
years and reduced the average node lifetime to one year.
Each experiment was run with ten different traces; the ﬁg-
ures show the averages from these experiments.
2.3 Simulation
We use the failure traces to drive an event-based simu-
lator. In the simulator, each node has unlimited disk ca-
pacity, but limited link bandwidth. However, it assumes
that all network paths are independent so that there are
no shared bottlenecks. Further it assumes that if a node is
available, it is reachable from all other nodes. This is oc-
casionally not the case on PlanetLab [14]; however, tech-
niques do exist to mask the effects of partially unreachable
nodes [1].
The simulator takes as input a trace of transient and
disk failure events, node repairs and object insertions. It
simulates the behavior of nodes under different protocols
and produces a trace of the availability of objects and the
amount of data sent and stored by each node for each hour
of simulated time. Each simulation calls put with 50,000
data objects, each of size 20 MB. Unless otherwise noted,
each node is conﬁgured with an access link capacity of
150 KBytes/s, roughly corresponding to the throughput
achievable under the bandwidth cap imposed by Planet-
Lab. The goal of the simulations is to show the percent-
age of objects lost and the amount of bandwidth needed
to sustain objects over time.
3 Understanding durability
We consider the problem of providing durability for a stor-
age system composed of a large number of nodes spread
over the Internet, each contributing disk space. The sys-
tem stores a large number of independent pieces of data.
Each piece of data is immutable. The system must have
a way to name and locate data; the former is beyond the
scope of this work, while the latter may affect the possi-
ble policies for placing replicas. While parts of the system
will suffer temporary failures, such as network partitions
or power failures, the focus of this section is on failures
that result in permanent loss of data. Section 5 shows how
to efﬁciently manage transient failures; this section de-
scribes some fundamental constraints and challenges in
providing durability.
3.1 Challenges to durability
It is useful to view permanent disk and node failures as
having an average rate and a degree of burstiness. To pro-
vide high durability, a system must be able to cope with
both.
In order to handle some average rate of failure, a high-
durability system must have the ability to create new repli-
cas of objects faster than replicas are destroyed. Whether
the system can do so depends on the per-node network
access link speed, the number of nodes (and hence ac-
cess links) that help perform each repair, and the amount
of data stored on each failed node. When a node n fails,
the other nodes holding replicas of the objects stored on n
must generate replacements: objects will remain durable
if there is sufﬁcient bandwidth available on average for the
lost replicas to be recreated. For example, in a symmetric
system each node must have sufﬁcient bandwidth to copy
the equivalent of all data it stores to other nodes during its
lifetime.
If nodes are unable to keep pace with the average fail-
ure rate, no replication policy can prevent objects from
being lost. These systems are infeasible. If the system is
infeasible, it will eventually “adapt” to the failure rate by
discarding objects until it becomes feasible to store the re-
maining amount of data. A system designer may not have
control over access link speeds and the amount of data to
be stored; fortunately, choice of object placement can im-
prove the speed that a system can create new replicas as
discussed in Section 4.
If the creation rate is only slightly above the average
failure rate, then a burst of failures may destroy all of an
object’s replicas before a new replica can be made; a sub-
sequent lull in failures below the average rate will not help
replace replicas if no replicas remain. For our purposes,
these failures are simultaneous: they occur closer together
in time than the time required to create new replicas of
the data that was stored on the failed disk. Simultaneous
failures pose a constraint tighter than just meeting the av-
erage failure rate: every object must have more replicas
than the largest expected burst of failures. We study sys-
tems that aim to maintain a target number of replicas in
order to survive bursts of failure; we call this target rL.
Higher values of rL do not allow the system to survive a
higher average failure rate. For examples, if failures were
to arrive at ﬁxed intervals, then either rL = 2 would always
be sufﬁcient, or no amount of replication would ensure
durability. If rL = 2 is sufﬁcient, there will always be time
to create a new replica of the objects on the most recently
failed disk before their remaining replicas fail. If creating
new replicas takes longer than the average time between
failures, no ﬁxed replication level will make the system
feasible; setting a replication level higher than two would
only increase the number of bytes each node must copy in
response to failures, which is already infeasible at rL = 2.
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & ImplementationUSENIX Association 47

Figure 1: A continuous time Markov model for the pro-
cess of replica failure and repair for a system that main-
tains three replicas ( rL = 3). Numbered states correspond
to the number of replicas of each object that are durable.
Transitions to the left occur at the rate at which repli-
cas are lost; right-moving transitions happen at the replica
creation rate.
3.2 Creation versus failure rate
It might seem that any creation rate higher than the av-
erage failure rate will lead to an unbounded number of
replicas, thus satisfying the burst constraint. However, this
intuition is false. To see why, let us model the number of
replicas of an object as a birth-death process using a con-
tinuous time Markov chain, which assumes independent
exponential inter-failure and inter-repair times. This as-
sumption is reasonable for independent disk failures.
An object is in state i when i disks hold a replica of the
object. There are thus rL + 1 possible states, as we start
with rL replicas and only create new replicas in response
to failures. From a given state i, there is a transition to
state i + 1 with rate µi corresponding to repair, except for
state 0 which corresponds to loss of durability and state
rL which does not need repair. The actual rate µi depends
on how bandwidth is allocated to repair and may change
depending on the replication level of an object. There is a
transition to the next lower state i− 1 with rate iλ f because
each of the i nodes holding an existing replica might fail.
Figure 1 shows this model for the case where rL = 3.
This model can be analyzed numerically to shed light
on the impact of rL on the probability of data loss; we will
show this in Section 3.3. However, to gain some intuition
about the relationship between creation and failure rates
and the impact this has on the number of replicas that can
be supported, we consider a simpliﬁcation of Figure 1 that
uses a ﬁxed µ but repairs constantly, even allowing for
transitions out of state 0. While these changes make the
model less realistic, they turn the model into an M/M/ ∞
queue [19] where the “arrival rate” is the repair rate and
the “service rate” is the per-replica failure rate. The “num-
ber of busy servers” is the number of replicas: the more
replicas an object has, the more probable it is that one of
them will fail.
This simpliﬁcation allows us to estimate the equilib-
rium number of replicas: it is µ /λ f . Given µ and λ f ,a
system cannot expect to support more than this number of
replicas. For example, if the system must handle coinci-
dental bursts of ﬁve failures, it must be able to support at
least six replicas and hence the replica creation rate must
be at least 6 times higher than the average replica fail-
ure rate. We will refer to µ /λ f as θ. Choices for rL are
effectively limited by θ. It is not the case that durability
increases continuously with rL; rather, when using rL > θ,
the system provides the best durability it can, given its re-
source constraints. Higher values of θ decrease the time
it takes to repair an object, and thus the ‘window of vul-
nerability’ during which additional failures can cause the
object to be destroyed.
To get an idea of a real-world value of θ, we estimate µ
and λ f from the historical failure record for disks on Plan-
etLab. From Table 1, the average disk failure inter-arrival
time for the entire test bed is 39.85 hours. On average,
there were 490 nodes in the system, so we can estimate the
mean time between failures for a single disk as 490 ·39.85
hours or 2.23 years. This translates to λ f ≈ 0.439 disk fail-
ures per year.
The replica creation rate µ depends on the achiev-
able network throughput per node, as well as the amount
of data that each node has to store (including replica-
tion). PlanetLab currently limits the available network
bandwidth to 150 KB/s per node, and if we assume that
the system stores 500 GB of unique data per node with
rL = 3 replicas each, then each of the 490 nodes stores
1.5 TB. This means that one node’s data can be recreated
in 121 days, or approximately three times per year. This
yields µ ≈ 3 disk copies per year.
In a system with these characteristics, we can estimate
θ = µ /λ f ≈ 6.85, though the actual value is likely to be
lower. Note that this ratio represents the equilibrium num-
ber of disks worth of data that can be supported; if a disk
is lost, all replicas on that disk are lost. When viewed in
terms of disk failures and copies, θ depends on the value
of rL:a s rL increases, the total amount of data stored per
disk (assuming available capacity) increases proportion-
ally and reduces µ .I f λ f = µ , the system can in fact main-
tain rL replicas of each object.
To show the impact of θ, we ran an experiment with
the synthetic trace (i.e., with 632 nodes, a failure rate of
λ f = 1 per year and a storage load of 1 TB), varying the
available bandwidth per node. In this case, 100 B/s cor-
responds to θ = 1.81/rL. Figure 2 shows that, as θ drops
below one, the system can no longer maintain full repli-
cation and starts operating in a ‘best effort’ mode, where
higher values of rL do not give any beneﬁt. The exception
is if some of the initial rL replicas survive through the en-
tire trace, which explains the small differences on the left
side of the graph.
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & Implementation USENIX Association48

0
2
4
6
8
10
12
200 400 600 800 1000 1200
Avg replicas per object at end of trace
Bandwith per node (bytes/s)
rL=2
rL=4
rL=6
rL=8
Figure 2: Average number of replicas per object at the
end of a two-year synthetic trace for varying values of
θ, which varies with bandwidth per node (on the x-axis)
and total data stored (rL). Where θ < 1, the system cannot
maintain the full replication level; increasing rL further
does not have any effect.
3.3 Choosing rL
A system designer must choose an appropriate value of
rL to meet a target level of durability. That is, for a given
deployment environment, rL must be high enough so that
a burst of rL failures is sufﬁciently rare.
One approach is to set rL to one more than the max-
imum burst of simultaneous failures in a trace of a real
system. For example, Figure 3 shows the burstiness of
permanent failures in the PlanetLab trace by counting the
number of times that a given number of failures occurs
in disjoint 24 hour and 72 hour periods. If the size of a
failure burst exceeds the number of replicas, some objects
may be lost. From this, one might conclude that 12 repli-
cas are needed to maintain the desired durability. This
value would likely provide durability but at a high cost.
If a lower value of rL would sufﬁce, the bandwidth spent
maintaining the extra replicas would be wasted.
There are several factors to consider in choosing rL to
provide a certain level of durability. First, even if failures
are independent, there is a non-zero (though small) proba-
bility for every burst size up to the total number of nodes.
Second, a burst may arrive while there are fewer than rL
replicas. One could conclude from these properties that
the highest possible value of rL is desirable. On the other
hand, the simultaneous failure of even a large fraction of
nodes may not destroy any objects, depending on how the
system places replicas (see Section 4). Also, the workload
may change over time, affecting µ and thus θ.
The continuous time Markov model described in Fig-
ure 1 reﬂects the distributions of both burst size and object
replication level. The effect of these distributions is signif-
0 123456789 1 0 1 1 1 2
Crashes in single period
0
20
40
60
Number of occurrences
24 Hour
72 Hour
Figure 3: Frequency of “simultaneous” failures in the
PlanetLab trace. These counts are derived from breaking
the trace into non-overlapping 24 and 72 hour periods and
noting the number of permanent failures that occur in each
period. If there are x replicas of an object, there were y
chances in the trace for the object to be lost; this would
happen if the remaining replicas were not able to respond
quickly enough to create new replicas of the object.
icant. An analysis of the governing differential equations
can be used to derive the probability that an object will be
at a given replication level after a given amount of time. In
particular, we can determine the probability that the chain
is in state 0, corresponding to a loss of durability.
We show the results of such an analysis in Figure 4; for
details, see [7]. To explore different workloads, we con-
sider different amounts of data per node. The graph shows
the probability that an object will survive after four years
as a function of rL and data stored per node (which affects
the repair rate and hence θ).
As rL increases, the system can tolerate more simulta-
neous failures and objects are more likely to survive. The
probability of object loss at rL = 1 corresponds to using no
replication. This value is the same for all curves since it
depends only on the lifetime of a disk; no new replicas can
be created once the only replica of the object is lost. To
store 50 GB durably, the system must use an rL of at least
3. As the total amount of data increases, the rL required to
attain a given survival probability also increases. Experi-
ments conﬁrm that data is lost on the PlanetLab trace only
when maintaining fewer than three replicas.
4 Improving repair time
This section explores how the system can increase dura-
bility by replacing replicas from a failed disk in parallel.
In effect, this reduces the time needed to repair the disk
and increases θ.
Each node, n, designates a set of other nodes that can
potentially hold copies of the objects that n is responsible
for. We will call the size of that set the node’s scope, and
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & ImplementationUSENIX Association 49

2345678
rL
0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
1.00
Pr[object durability]
5 GB
50 GB
500 GB
Figure 4: Analytic prediction for object durability after
four years on PlanetLab. The x-axis shows the initial num-
ber of replicas for each object: as the number of replicas
is increased, object durability also increases. Each curve
plots a different per-node storage load; as load increases,
it takes longer to copy objects after a failure and it is more
likely that objects will be lost due to simultaneous fail-
ures.
consider only system designs in which every node has the
same scope. Scope can range from a minimum of rL to a
maximum of the number of nodes in the system.
A small scope means that all the objects stored on node
n have copies on nodes chosen from the same restricted set
of other nodes. The advantage of a small scope is that it
makes it easier to keep track of the copies of each object.
For example, DHash stores the copies of all the objects
with keys in a particular range on the successor nodes of
that key range; the result is that those nodes store similar
sets of objects, and can exchange compressed summaries
of the objects they store when they want to check that each
object is replicated a sufﬁcient number of times [6].
The disadvantage of a small scope is that the effort of
creating new copies of objects stored on a failed disk falls
on the small set of nodes in that disk’s scope. The time
required to create the new copies is proportional to the
amount of data on one disk divided by the scope. Thus
a small scope results in a long recovery time. Another
problem with a small scope, when coupled with consis-
tent hashing, is that the addition of a new node may cause
needless copying of objects: the small scope may dictate
that the new node replicate certain objects, forcing the pre-
vious replicas out of scope and thus preventing them from
contributing to durability.
Larger scopes spread the work of making new copies
of objects on a failed disk over more access links, so that
the copying can be completed faster. In the extreme of
a scope of N (the number of nodes in the system), the
remaining copies of the objects on a failed disk would be
spread over all nodes, assuming that there are many more
objects than nodes. Furthermore, the new object copies
created after the failure would also be spread over all the
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
1.05
0 5 10 15 20 25
Durability at end of trace
Scope
rL=2
rL=4
Figure 5: Durability for different scopes in a synthetic
trace with low θ . Larger scopes spread the repair work
over more access links and improve the nodes’ ability to
monitor replicas and temporary failures, which results in
higher durability.
nodes. Thus the network trafﬁc sources and destinations
are spread over all the access links, and the time to recover
from the failure is short (proportional to the amount of
data on one disk divided by N).
A larger scope also means that a temporary failure will
be noticed by a larger number of nodes. Thus, more access
links are available to create additional replicas while the
failure lasts. Unless these links are already fully utilized,
this increases the effective replica creation rate, and thus
improves durability.
Figure 5 shows how scope (and thus repair time) af-
fects object durability in a simulation on a synthetic trace.
To reduce θ , we limit the bandwidth per node to 1000 B/s
in this experiment. We vary the repair threshold and the
scope, and measure durability after two years of simulated
time. Increasing the scope from 5 to 25 nodes reduces the
fraction of lost objects by an order of magnitude, inde-
pendent of rL. By including more nodes (and thus more
network connections) in each repair effort, the work is
spread over more access links and completes faster, limit-
ing the window of time in which the system is vulnerable
to another disk failure. Ideally, by doubling the scope, the
window of vulnerability can be cut in half.
A large scope reduces repair time and increases dura-
bility; however, implementing a large scope presents two
trade-offs. First, the system must monitor each node in
the scope to determine the replication levels; when using
a large scope, the system must monitor many nodes. This
increased monitoring trafﬁc limits scalability. Second, in
some instances, a large scope can increase the likelihood
that a simultaneous failure of multiple disks will cause
some object to be lost.
If objects are placed randomly with scope N and there
are many objects, then it is likely that all
(N
rL
)
potential
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & Implementation USENIX Association50

replica sets are used. In this scenario, the simultaneous
failure of any rL disks is likely to cause data loss: there is
likely to be at least one object replicated on exactly those
disks. A small scope limits placement possibilities that are
used, concentrating objects into common replica sets. As
a result, it is less likely that a given set of rL failures will
affect a replica set, but when data loss does occur, many
more objects will be lost. These effects exactly balance:
the expected number of objects lost during a large failure
event is identical for both strategies. It is the variance that
differs between the two strategies.
5 Reducing transient costs
The possibility of transient failures complicates providing
durability efﬁciently: we do not want to make new copies
in response to transient failures, but it is impossible to dis-
tinguish between disk failures and transient failures using
only remote network measurements. This section focuses
minimizing the amount of network trafﬁc sent in response
to transient failures.
The key technique needed to achieve this is to en-
sure that the system reintegrates object replicas stored on
nodes after transient failures; this means the system must
be able to track more than rL replicas of each object. The
number of replicas that the system must remember turns
out to be dependent on a, the average fraction of time that
a node is available. However, we show that the correct
number of extra replicas can be determined without esti-
mating a by tracking the location of all replicas, including
those that are ofﬂine. We introduce the Carbonite algo-
rithm that uses this technique and demonstrate its effec-
tiveness using simulations.
We additionally consider two other techniques for lim-
iting response to transient failures: creating extra repli-
cas in batches and using timeouts as a heuristic for distin-
guishing transient from disk failures. Both are of limited
value: batching is best able to save bandwidth when using
erasure codes and, in the presence of reintegration, time-
outs work well only if node downtimes are notably shorter
than node (and disk) lifetimes.
5.1 Carbonite details
The Carbonite maintenance algorithm focuses on reinte-
gration to avoid responding to transient failures. Durabil-
ity is provided by selecting a suitable value of rL; an im-
plementation of Carbonite should place objects to maxi-
mize θ and preferentially repair the least replicated ob-
ject. Within these settings, Carbonite works to efﬁciently
maintain rL copies, thus providing durability.
Because it is not possible to distinguish between tran-
sient and disk failures remotely, Carbonite simply re-
sponds to any detected failure by creating a new replica.
This approach is shown in Figure 6. If fewer than rL repli-
cas are detected as available, the algorithm creates enough
// Iterate through the object database
// and schedule an object for repair if needed
MAINT AIN _R EPLICAS ()
keys = <DB.object_keys sorted number of available replicas >
foreach k in keys:
n = replicas[k].len ()
if (n < rL)
newreplica = enqueue_repair (k)
replicas[k].append (newreplica)
Figure 6: Each node maintains a list of objects for which
it is responsible and monitors the replication level of each
object using some synchronization mechanism. In this
code, this state is stored in the replicas hash table though
an implementation may choose to store it on disk. This
code is called periodically to enqueue repairs on those ob-
jects that have too few replicas available; the application
can issue these requests at its convenience.
new replicas to return the replication level to rL.
However, Carbonite remembers which replicas were
stored on nodes that have failed so that they can be reused
if they return. This allows Carbonite to greatly reduce the
cost of responding to transient failures. For example, if the
system has created two replicas beyond rL and both fail,
no work needs to be done unless a third replica fails be-
fore one of the two currently unavailable replicas returns.
Once enough extra replicas have been created, it is un-
likely that fewer than rL of them will be available at any
given time. Over time, it is increasingly unlikely that the
system will need to make any more replicas.
5.2 Reintegration reduces maintenance
Figure 7 shows the importance of reintegrating replicas
back into the system by comparing the behavior of Car-
bonite to two prior DHT systems and a hypothetical sys-
tem that can differentiate disk from transient failures using
an oracle and thus only reacts to disk failures. In the simu-
lation, each system operates with rL = 3. The systems are
simulated against the PlanetLab trace (a) and a synthetic
trace (b). The y-axes plot the cumulative number of bytes
of network trafﬁc used to create replicas; the x-axes show
time.
Unlike all other synthetic traces used in this paper,
whose parameters are different from the PlanetLab trace
in order to bring out the basic underlying trends, the syn-
thetic trace used in Figure 7 was conﬁgured to be similar
to the PlanetLab trace. In particular, the average node life-
time and the median downtime are the same. The result
is still an approximation (for example, PlanetLab grew
during the trace) but the observed performance is simi-
lar. Some of the observed differences are due to batching
(used by Total Recall) and timeouts (used by all systems);
the impact of these are discussed in more detail in Sec-
tions 5.4 and 5.5.
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & ImplementationUSENIX Association 51

0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
0 10 20 30 40 50
Cumulative bytes sent (TB)
Time (weeks)
Cates
TotalRecall (rH=5)
TotalRecall (rH=9)
Carbonite
Oracle
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
0 10 20 30 40 50
Cumulative bytes sent (TB)
Time (weeks)
Cates
TotalRecall (rH=5)
TotalRecall (rH=9)
Carbonite
Oracle
0
100
200
0 10 20 30 40 50
0
10000
20000
Disk failures
Transient failures
Time (weeks)
Disk
Transient
0
100
200
0 10 20 30 40 50
0
10000
20000
Disk failures
Transient failures
Time (weeks)
Disk
Transient
(a) (b)
Figure 7: A comparison of the total amount of work done by different maintenance algorithms with rL = 3 using a
PlanetLab trace (left) and a synthetic trace (right). In all cases, no objects are lost. However, rL = 2 is insufﬁcient: for
the PlanetLab trace, even a system that could distinguish permanent from transient failures would lose several objects.
Since the oracle system responds only to disk failures,
it uses the lowest amount of bandwidth. The line labeled
Cates shows a system that keeps track of exactly rL repli-
cas per object; this system approximates the behavior of
DHTs like DHash, P AST and OpenDHT. Each failure
causes the number of replicas to drop below rL and causes
this system to create a new copy of an object, even if the
failure was transient. If the replica comes back online, it is
discarded. This behavior results in the highest trafﬁc rate
shown. The difference in performance between the Plan-
etLab and Poisson trace is due to differences in the distri-
bution of downtimes: Poisson is not a particularly good ﬁt
for the PlanetLab downtime distribution.
Total Recall [3] tracks up to a ﬁxed number of replicas,
controlled by a parameter rH ; we show rH = 5 which is
optimal for these traces, and rH = 9. As can be seen at
the right of the graphs, this tracking of additional repli-
cas allows Total Recall to create fewer replicas than the
Cates system. When more than rL replicas are available, a
transient failure will not cause Total Recall to make a new
copy. However, Total Recall’s performance is very sensi-
tive to rH .I f rH is set too low, a series of transient failures
will cause the replication level to drop below rL and force
it to create an unnecessary copy. This will cause Total Re-
call to approach Cates (when rH = rL). Worse, when the
system creates new copies it forgets about any copies that
are currently on failed nodes and cannot beneﬁt from the
return of those copies. Without a sufﬁciently long mem-
ory, Total Recall must make additional replicas. Setting
rH too high imposes a very high insertion cost and results
in work that may not be needed for a long time.
Carbonite reintegrates all returning replicas into the
replica sets and therefore creates fewer copies than Total
Recall. However, Carbonite’s inability to distinguish be-
tween transient and disk failures means that it produces
and maintains more copies than the oracle based algo-
rithm. This is mainly visible in the ﬁrst weeks of the trace
as Carbonite builds up a buffer of extra copies. By the end
of the simulations, the rate at which Carbonite produces
new replicas approaches that of the oracle system.
5.3 How many replicas?
To formalize our intuition about the effect of extra replicas
on maintenance cost and to understand how many extra
replicas are necessary to avoid triggering repair follow-
ing a transient failure, consider a simple Bernoulli process
measuring R, the number of replicas available at a given
moment, when there are r > rL total replicas. The avail-
ability of each node is a. Since repair is triggered when the
number of available replicas is less than rL, the probabil-
ity that a new replica needs to be created is the probability
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & Implementation USENIX Association52

4 6 8 10 12
Number of replicas
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Pr[repair action]
a = 0.5
a = 0.7
a = 0.9
Figure 8: Additional redundancy must be created when
the amount of live redundancy drops below the desired
amount (3 replicas in this example). The probability of
this happening depends solely on the average node avail-
ability a and the amount of durable redundancy. This
graph shows the probability of a repair action as a func-
tion of the amount of durable redundancy, with a = 0.5,
a = 0.7 and a = 0.9 for a replication system.
that less than rL replicas are available:
Pr[R < rL |r extant copies]=
rL−1
∑
i=0
(r
i
)
ai(1 − a)r−i.
This probability falls rapidly as r increases but it will
never reach zero; there is always a chance that a replica
must be created due to a large number of concurrent fail-
ures, regardless of how many replicas exist already. How-
ever, when a large number of replicas exists, it is ex-
tremely unlikely that enough replicas fail such that fewer
than rL are available.
By computing the Chernoff bound, it is possible to
show that after the system has created 2 rL/a replicas,
the probability of a new object creation is exponentially
small. 2rL/a is a rough (and somewhat arbitrary) estimate
of when the probability of a new object creation is small
enough to ignore. Figure 8 shows (on the y-axis) the prob-
ability that a new object must be created when an increas-
ing number of replicas already exist. As r increases, the
probability that a new replica needs to be created falls,
and the algorithm creates replicas less frequently. As r
approaches 2rL/a, the algorithm essentially stops creating
replicas, despite not knowing the value of a.
This beneﬁt is obtained only if returning replicas are
reintegrated into the appropriate replica set, allowing
more than rL to be available with high probability. As a
result, the cost of responding to transient failures will be
nearly zero. Still, this system is more expensive than an
oracle system that can distinguish between disk and tran-
sient failures. While the latter could maintain exactly rL
replicas, the former has to maintain approximately 2 rL/a.
The factor of 2 /a difference in the cost is the penalty for
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
0 2 4 6 8 10 12
Total bytes sent (TB)
Extra replicas
With reintegration
Without reintegration
Figure 9: Total repair cost with extra replicas, and with
and without reintegration after repair. Without reintegra-
tion, extra replicas reduce the rate at which repair is trig-
gered and thus reduce maintenance cost; there is an op-
timal setting (here e = 8). With reintegration, the cost is
lowest if no extra replicas are used.
not distinguishing disk and transient failures.
5.4 Create replicas as needed
Given that the system tends towards creating 2 rL/a repli-
cas in order to keep rL of them available, it is tempting to
create the entire set—not just rL of them—when the ob-
ject is ﬁrst inserted into the system (Total Recall [3] uses
a similar technique). However, this approach requires an
accurate estimate for a to deliver good performance. If a
is overestimated, the system quickly ﬁnds itself with less
than rL replicas after a string of transient failures and is
forced to create additional copies. If a is underestimated,
the system creates unneeded copies and wastes valuable
resources. Carbonite is simpliﬁed by the fact that it does
not need to measure or estimate a to create the “correct”
number of replicas.
Another idea is to create not only enough copies to
bring the number of available replicas back up to rL,b u t
also e additional copies beyond rL (this is similar to To-
tal Recall’s lazy repair technique). Creating a batch of
copies makes repair actions less frequent, but at the same
time, causes more maintenance trafﬁc than Carbonite. The
work required to create additional replicas will be wasted
if those replicas are lost due to disk failures before they are
actually required. Carbonite, on the other hand, only cre-
ates replicas that are necessary to keep rL replicas avail-
able. In other words, either Carbonite would eventually
create the same number of replicas as a scheme that cre-
ates replicas in batches, or some replicas created in the
batch were unnecessary: batch schemes do, at best, the
same amount of work as Carbonite.
Figure 9 shows the bytes sent in a simulation exper-
iment using a ﬁve-year synthetic trace with a = 0.88,
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & ImplementationUSENIX Association 53

rL = 3, and an average node lifetime of one year. The
graph shows results for different values of e (in Total
Recall, e = rH − rL) and for two different scenarios. In
the scenario with reintegration, the system reintegrates all
replicas as they return from transient failures. This sce-
nario represents the behavior of Carbonite when e = 0 and
causes the least trafﬁc.
In the scenario without reintegration, replicas that are
unavailable when repair is triggered are not reintegrated
into the replica set even if they do return. Total Recall be-
haves this way. Extra replicas give the system a short-term
memory. Additional replicas increase the time until repair
must be made (at which time failed replicas will be forgot-
ten); during this time failed replicas can be reintegrated.
Larger values of e give the system a longer memory but
also put more data at risk of failure: on this synthetic trace,
a value of e = 8 is optimal. Taking advantage of returning
replicas is simpler and more efﬁcient than creating addi-
tional replicas: a system that reintegrates returning repli-
cas will always make fewer copies than a system that does
not and must replace forgotten replicas.
For systems that use erasure codes, there is an addi-
tional read cost since a complete copy of the object is
needed in order to generate a new fragment [32]. The
cost of reading a sufﬁcient number of fragments prior
to recreating a lost fragment can overwhelm the savings
that erasure codes provide. A common approach is to
amortize this cost by batching fragment creation but sim-
ply caching the object at the node responsible for repair
is much more effective. A simulation contrasting both
caching and batching (but both with reintegration) shows
results similar to Figure 9: caching the object with a 7/14
erasure code uses 85% of the bandwidth that the optimal
batching strategy would use.
5.5 Timeouts
A common approach to reduce transient costs is to use
long timeouts, as suggested by Blake [4]. Timeouts are
a heuristic to avoid misclassifying temporary failures as
permanent: failures are considered to be permanent only
when the corresponding node has not responded for some
number of seconds. Longer timeouts reduce the number
of misclassiﬁed transient failures and thus the number of
repairs. On the other hand, a longer timeout also increases
the latency between failure and repair in the event of a true
disk failure; if additional permanent failures occur during
this larger “window of vulnerability,” data may be lost.
The goal of both reintegrating replicas and use of time-
outs is to reduce the number of repairs without decreas-
ing durability. Figure 7 demonstrates that reintegration is
effective for Carbonite. However, it also illustrates that
timeouts are important in systems without reintegration:
on the PlanetLab trace, the timeout used is able to mask
87.7% of transient failures whereas it only masks 58.3%
of transient failures on the Poisson trace. If replicas are
reintegrated, what extra beneﬁt does a timeout provide?
Timeouts are most effective when a signiﬁcant percent-
age of the transient failures can be ignored, which is de-
pendent on the downtime distribution. However, for dura-
bility to remain high, the expected node lifetime needs to
be signiﬁcantly greater than the timeout.
To evaluate this scenario where timeouts should have
impact, we performed an experiment using a synthetic
trace where we varied the repair threshold and the node
timeout. Since the system would recognize nodes return-
ing after a permanent failure and immediately expire all
pending timeouts for these nodes, we assigned new iden-
tities to such nodes to allow long timeouts to expire nor-
mally.
Figure 10 shows the results of this simulation: (a)
shows the total bytes sent as a function of timeout while
(b) shows the durability at the end of the trace. As the
length of the timeout increases past the average down-
time, we observe a reduction in the number of bytes sent
without a decrease in durability. However, as the timeout
grows longer, durability begins to fall: the long timeout
delays the point at which the system can begin repair, re-
ducing the effective repair rate. Thus setting a timeout can
reduce response to transient failures but its success de-
pends greatly on its relationship to the downtime distribu-
tion and can in some instances reduce durability as well.
6 Implementing Carbonite
While the discussion of durability and efﬁcient mainte-
nance may be broadly applicable, in this section, we fo-
cus on our experience in implementing Carbonite in the
context of distributed hash tables (DHTs).
In a DHT, each node is algorithmically assigned a por-
tion of the total identiﬁer space that it is responsible for
maintaining. Carbonite requires that each node know the
number of available replicas of each object for which it is
responsible. The goal of monitoring is to allow the nodes
to track the number of available replicas and to learn of
objects that the node should be tracking but is not aware
of. When a node n fails the new node n′ that assumes re-
sponsibility of n’s blocks begins tracking replica availabil-
ity; monitored information is soft state and thus can be
failed over to a "successor" relatively transparently.
Monitoring can be expensive: a node might have to con-
tact every node in the scope of each object it holds. While
developing two prototype implementations of Carbonite
in the PlanetLab environment, we found it necessary to
develop different techniques for monitoring: the monitor-
ing problem is slightly different in systems that use dis-
tributed directories and those that use consistent hashing.
Figure 11 illustrates the structures of these systems.
The Chord/DHash system [8, 9] served as the basis for
our consistent hashing implementation. It uses a small
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & Implementation USENIX Association54

0
5
10
15
20
25
0.1 1 10 100 1000 10000
Total bytes sent (TB)
Timeout (hours)
rL=2
rL=3
rL=4
rL=5
(a)
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
1.05
0.1 1 10 100 1000 10000
Durability (at end of trace)
Timeout (hours)
rL=2
rL=3
rL=4
rL=5
(b)
Figure 10: The impact of timeouts on bandwidth and durability on a synthetic trace. Figure 10(a) shows the number
of copies created for various timeout values; (b) shows the corresponding object durability. In this trace, the expected
downtime is about 29 hours. Longer timeouts allow the system to mask more transient failures and thus reduce main-
tenance cost; however, they also reduce durability.
  
  

 







ID Space
Replicas
successor list
(a) DHT


		
		






















 



ID Space
(location−
pointer
replicas)
Replica
Replica
Replica
successor list
(b) Directory
Figure 11: DHT- and Directory- Based Storage System
Architectures.
scope and thus monitors a small number of nodes. DHash
does not need to record the location of failed replicas: a
node will return to the same place in the ring and thus
the same replica sets, as long as it returns with the same
logical identiﬁer.
We used Oceanstore [20, 30] and the BambooDHT [31]
to develop a distributed directory system using large scope
and random placement. Oceanstore must maintain point-
ers to all nodes that have ever held data for a given object
and has a scope of N. Responsibility for keys is still as-
signed using consistent hashing: the pointer database for
each key is replicated on the successors of the key. In this
case, the location of objects is hard state. Unfortunately,
it could be easy for this system to have very high moni-
toring costs: if each node communicate with every other
node periodically, the resulting N2 probe trafﬁc may limit
the system’s scalability.
6.1 Monitoring consistent hashing systems
In systems that use a small scope, it is possible to make
an end-to-end check that data is stored on the disk of each
node. The naive way to do this is to arrange for nodes
to repeatedly exchange key lists, but such an exchange
would be extremely costly.
DHash uses a synchronization protocol based on
Merkle trees [6] that takes advantage of the fact that most
objects are typically correctly placed. In this common
case, adjacent nodes store largely similar keys and two
nodes can exchange a single message (containing a digest
of the stored keys) to verify that they are synchronized.
Carbonite allows replicas to be placed anywhere in the
placement scope. This ﬂexibility lets the system avoid
moving and replicating objects during most joins (until
the system grows dramatically). However, it also causes
the Merkle synchronization protocol to operate outside of
its common case: adjacent nodes are no longer likely to
store nearly identical sets of objects. In this environment
the synchronizer “discovers” that nodes in the scope are
missing objects each time it is run. Repeatedly exchang-
ing this information can be costly: if the synchronization
protocol runs once a minute, the cost of repeatedly trans-
ferring the 20-byte key of an 8 KB data object will exceed
the cost of transferring the object itself to a newly joined
node in about 8 hours.
To avoid this problem, each node maintains, for each
object, a list of nodes in the scope without a copy of the
object. The node uses this information to adjust its Merkle
tree to avoid re-learning the information again during the
next run of the synchronizer. For instance, when a node
n synchronizes with a replica node n′ that is known to be
missing an object with key k, n leaves k out of the Merkle
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & ImplementationUSENIX Association 55

tree used for synchronization: this prevents n′ from report-
ing what n already knew. The amount of extra state needed
to perform this optimization per object is small relative to
the size of storing the object itself, and can be maintained
lazily, unlike the object itself which is hard state.
6.2 Monitoring host availability
In a directory-style system, the same synchronization
techniques just described can be used to monitor the di-
rectory itself (which is replicated on successor nodes);
however, it is likely infeasible to explicitly monitor the
liveness of objects themselves using the algorithm de-
scribed above since two nodes are not likely to store the
same keys. Instead, node availability can be monitored as
a proxy for object availability. Node availability can be
monitored using a multicast mechanism that propagates
the liveness state of each node to each other node.
The DHT’s routing tables are used to establish a unique
spanning tree rooted at each node a O(log N) out-degree
per node. Each node periodically broadcasts a heartbeat
message to its children in the tree; this message includes a
generation identiﬁer that is randomly generated when the
node is installed or reinstalled following a disk failure.
The children rebroadcast the heartbeat to their children
until it is received by all nodes.
Over time, each node expects to receive regular notiﬁ-
cation of node liveness. If a heartbeat is missed, the mon-
itoring node triggers repair for every object stored on the
newly down node. When a node returns and its generation
identiﬁer has not changed, the monitoring node can con-
clude that objects stored on that node are again accessible.
7 Related work
7.1 Replication analysis
The use of a birth-death data-loss model is a departure
from previous analyses of reliability. Most DHT evalua-
tions consider whether data would survive a single event
involving the failure of many nodes [8, 40]. This approach
does not separate durability from availability, and does not
consider the continuous bandwidth consumed by replac-
ing replicas lost to disk failure.
The model and discussion in this paper is similar to
contemporary work that looks at churn [37] and analyzes
the expected object lifetime [29]. The birth-death model is
a generalization of the calculations that predict the MTBF
for RAID storage systems [26]. Owing to its scale, a dis-
tributed system has more ﬂexibility to choose parameters
such as the replication level and number of replica sets
when compared to RAID systems.
Blake and Rodrigues argue that wide-area storage sys-
tems built on unreliable nodes cannot store a large amount
of data [4]. Their analysis is based on the amount of data
that a host can copy during its lifetime and mirrors our dis-
cussion of feasibility. We come to a different conclusion
because we consider a relatively stable system member-
ship where data loss is driven by disk failure, while they
assumed a system with continual membership turnover.
The selection of a target replication level for surviving
bursts differs from many traditional fault tolerant storage
systems. Such systems, designed for single-site clusters,
typically aim to continue operating despite some ﬁxed
number of failures and choose number of replicas so that
a voting algorithm can ensure correct updates in the pres-
ence of partitions or Byzantine failures [5, 17, 23, 24, 33].
FAB [33] and Chain Replication [38] both consider
how the number of possible replicas sets affects data dura-
bility. The two come to opposite conclusions: FAB recom-
mends a small number of replica sets since more replica
sets provide more ways for data to fail; chain replication
recommends many replica sets to increase repair paral-
lelism and thus reduce repair time. These observations
are both correct: choosing a replica placement strategy re-
quires balancing the probability of losing some data item
during a simultaneous failure (by limiting the number of
replica sets) and improving the ability of the system to
tolerate a higher average failure rate (by increasing the
number of replica sets and reconstruction parallelism).
Weatherspoon et al [39] studied the increased costs due
to transient failures. Their results quantify the beneﬁts
of maintaining extra replicas in reducing these transient
costs. However, their analysis focuses on systems that for-
get about extant replicas that exist when repair is initiated
and do not discuss the beneﬁts of reintegrating them.
7.2 Replicated systems
Replication has been widely used to reduce the risk of
data loss and increase data availability in storage systems
(e.g., RAID [26], System R duplex disks [16], Harp [23],
xFS [2], Petal [21], DDS [17], GFS [15]). The algorithms
traditionally used to create and maintain data redundancy
are tailored for the environment in which these systems
operate: well-connected hosts that rarely lose data or be-
come unavailable. As a result they can maintain a small,
ﬁxed number of replicas and create a new replica immedi-
ately following a failure. This paper focuses on wide-area
systems that are bandwidth-limited, where transient net-
work failures are common, and where it is difﬁcult to tell
the difference between transient failures and disk failures.
Distributed databases [10], online disaster recovery
systems such as Myriad [22], and storage systems [12,
13, 27] use replication and mirroring to distribute load
and increase durability. These systems store mutable data
and focus on the cost of propagating updates, a consid-
eration not applicable to the immutable data we assume.
In some cases, data is replicated between a primary and
backup sites and further replicated locally at each site us-
ing RAID. Wide area recovery is initiated only after site
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & Implementation USENIX Association56

failure; individual disk failure can be repaired locally.
Total Recall is the system most similar to our work [3].
We borrow from Total Recall the idea that creating and
tracking additional replicas can reduce the cost of tran-
sient failures. Total Recall’s lazy replication keeps a ﬁxed
number of replicas and fails to reincorporate replicas that
return after a transient failure if a repair had been per-
formed. Total Recall also requires introspection or guess-
ing to determine an appropriate high water mark that Car-
bonite can arrive at naturally.
Glacier [18] is a distributed storage system that uses
massive replication to provide data durability across large-
scale correlated failure events. The resulting tradeoffs are
quite different from those of Carbonite, which is designed
to handle a continuous stream of at small-scale failure
events. For example, due to its high replication level,
Glacier can afford very long timeouts and thus mask al-
most all transient failures.
8 Conclusions and future work
Inexpensive hardware and the increasing capacity of
wide-area network links have spurred the development of
applications that store a large amount of data on wide-area
nodes. However, the feasibility of applications based on
distributed storage systems is currently limited by the ex-
pense of maintaining data. This paper has described a set
of techniques that allow wide-area systems to efﬁciently
store and maintain large amounts of data.
These techniques have allowed us to develop and de-
ploy prototypes of UsenetDHT [34], OverCite [35], and
Antiquity [11]. These systems must store large amounts
of data durably and were infeasible without the techniques
we have presented. In the future, we hope to report on our
long-term experience with these systems.
Acknowledgments The authors would like to thank
Vivek Pai and Aaron Klingaman for their assistance in
compiling the data used for the PlanetLab traces. This pa-
per has beneﬁted considerably from the comments of the
anonymous reviewers and our shepherd, Larry Peterson.
References
[1] A NDERSEN ,D . Improving End-to-End Availability Using Over-
lay Networks. PhD thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology ,
2004.
[2] A NDERSON ,T .E . ,D AHLIN ,M .D . ,N EEFE ,J .M . ,P A TTERSON ,
D .A . ,R OSELLI ,D .S . , AND WANG , R. Y. Serverless network
ﬁle systems. In Proc. of the 15th ACM Symposium on Operating
System Principles (Dec. 1995).
[3] B HAGW AN,R . ,T AT I,K . ,C HENG ,Y . - C . ,S AVA G E,S . , AND
VOELKER , G. M. Total Recall: System support for automated
availability management. In Proc. of the 1st Symposium on Net-
worked Systems Design and Implementation (Mar. 2004).
[4] B LAKE ,C . , AND RODRIGUES , R. High availability , scalable stor-
age, dynamic peer networks: Pick two. In Proc. of the 9th W ork-
shop on Hot Topics in Operating Systems (May 2003), pp. 1–6.
[5] C ASTRO ,M . , AND LISKOV, B. Practical byzantine fault tolerance
and proactive recovery. ACM Transactions on Computer Systems
20, 4 (2002), 398–461.
[6] C ATES , J. Robust and efﬁcient data management for a distributed
hash table. Master’s thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology ,
May 2003.
[7] D ABEK ,F . A Distributed Hash Table. PhD thesis, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology , 2005.
[8] D ABEK ,F . ,K AASHOEK ,M .F . ,K ARGER ,D . ,M ORRIS ,R . , AND
STOICA , I. Wide-area cooperative storage with CFS. In Proc. of
the 18th ACM Symposium on Operating System Principles (Oct.
2001).
[9] D ABEK ,F . ,L I,J . ,S IT,E . ,R OBERTSON ,J . ,K AASHOEK ,M .F . ,
AND MORRIS , R. Designing a DHT for low latency and high
throughput. In Proc. of the 1st Symposium on Networked Systems
Design and Implementation (Mar. 2004).
[10] D EMERS ,A . ,G REENE ,D . ,H AUSER ,C . ,I RISH ,W . ,L ARSON ,
J., S HENKER ,S . ,S TURGIS ,H . ,S WINEHART ,D . , AND TERRY,
D. Epidemic algorithms for replicated database maintenance. In
Proc. of the 6th ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed
Computing (1987), pp. 1–12.
[11] E ATO N,P . ,W EA THERSPOON ,H . , AND KUBIA TOWICZ , J. Efﬁ-
ciently binding data to owners in distributed content-addressable
storage systems. In Proc. of the 3rd International Security in Stor-
age W orkshop(Dec. 2005).
[12] EMC. Centera—content addressed storage system. http://
www.emc.com/products/systems/centera.jsp. Last
accessed March 2006.
[13] EMC. Symmetrix remote data facility . http://www.emc.
com/products/networking/srdf.jsp. Last accessed
March 2006.
[14] F REEDMAN ,M .J . ,L AKSHMINARA Y ANAN ,K . ,R HEA ,S . , AND
STOICA , I. Non-transitive connectivity and DHTs. In Proc. of the
2nd W orkshop on Real Large Distributed Systems (Dec. 2005).
[15] G HEMAW A T,S . ,G OBIOFF ,H . , AND LEUNG , S.-T. The Google
ﬁle system. In Proc. of the 2003 19th ACM Symposium on Oper-
ating System Principles (Oct. 2003).
[16] G RA Y,J . ,M CJONES ,P . ,B LASGEN ,M . ,L INDSA Y,B . ,L ORIE ,
R., P RICE ,T . ,P UTZOLU ,F . , AND TRAIGER , I. The recovery
manager of the System R database manager. ACM Computing Sur-
veys 13, 2 (1981), 223–242.
[17] G RIBBLE ,S . ,B REWER ,E . ,H ELLERSTEIN ,J . , AND CULLER ,
D. Scalable, distributed data structures for internet service con-
struction. In Proc. of the 4th Symposium on Operating Systems
Design and Implementation (Oct. 2004).
[18] H AEBERLEN ,A . ,M ISLOVE ,A . , AND DRUSCHEL , P. Glacier:
Highly durable, decentralized storage despite massive correlated
failures. In Proc. of the 2nd Symposium on Networked Systems
Design and Implementation (May 2005).
[19] K LEINROCK ,L . Queueing Systems, V olume I: Theory. John Wiley
& Sons, Jan. 1975.
[20] K UBIA TOWICZ ,J . ,B INDEL ,D . ,C HEN ,Y . ,C ZERWINSKI ,S . ,
EATO N,P . ,G EELS ,D . ,G UMMADI ,R . ,R HEA ,S . ,W EA TH-
ERSPOON ,H . ,W EIMER ,W . ,W ELLS ,C . , AND ZHAO ,B .
OceanStore: An architecture for global-scale persistent storage.
In Proc. of the 9th Intl. Conference on Architectural Support for
Programming Languages and Operating Systems (Nov. 2000),
pp. 190–201.
[21] L EE ,E .K . , AND THEKKA TH , C. A. Petal: Distributed virtual
disks. In Proc. of the 7th Intl. Conference on Architectural Sup-
port for Programming Languages and Operating Systems (1996),
pp. 84–92.
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & ImplementationUSENIX Association 57

[22] L EUNG ,S . - T .A . ,MACCORMICK ,J . ,P ERL ,S .E . , AND ZHANG ,
L. Myriad: Cost-effective disaster tolerance. In Proc. of the 1st
USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies(Jan. 2002).
[23] L ISKOV,B . ,G HEMAW A T,S . ,G RUBER ,R . ,J OHNSON ,P . ,
SHRIRA , L., AND WILLIAMS , M. Replication in the Harp ﬁle
system. In Proc. of the 13th ACM Symposium on Operating Sys-
tem Principles (Oct. 1991), pp. 226–38.
[24] L ITWIN ,W . , AND SCHW ARZ, T. LH* RS : A high-availability
scalable distributed data structure using reed solomon codes. In
Proc. of the 2000 ACM SIGMOD Intl. Conference on Management
of Data (May 2000), pp. 237–248.
[25] P ARK ,K .S . , AND PAI , V. CoMon: a mostly-scalable monitoring
system for PlanetLab. ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems Review
40, 1 (Jan. 2006), 65–74. http://comon.cs.princeton.
edu/.
[26] P ATTERSON ,D . ,G IBSON ,G . , AND KATZ , R. A case for redun-
dant arrays of inexpensive disks (RAID). In Proc. of the ACM
SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data (June
1988).
[27] P A TTERSON ,H . ,M ANLEY ,S . ,F EDERWISCH ,M . ,H ITZ ,D . ,
KLEIMAN ,S . , AND OWARA , S. Snapmirror: File system based
asynchronous mirroring for disaster recovery. In Proc. of the 1st
USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies(Jan. 2002).
[28] P ETERSON ,L . ,A NDERSON ,T . ,C ULLER ,D . , AND ROSCOE ,T .
A blueprint for introducing disruptive technology into the Internet.
In Proc. of the First ACM W orkshop on Hot Topics in Networks
(Oct. 2002). http://www.planet- lab.org.
[29] R AMABHADRAN ,S . , AND PASQUALE , J. Analysis of long-
running replicated systems. In Proc. of the 25th IEEE Annual Con-
ference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM) (Apr. 2006).
[30] R HEA ,S . ,E ATO N,P . ,G EELS ,D . ,W EA THERSPOON ,H . ,Z HAO ,
B., AND KUBIA TOWICZ , J. Pond: the OceanStore prototype. In
Proc. of the 2nd USENIX Conference on File and Storage Tech-
nologies (Apr. 2003).
[31] R HEA ,S . ,G EELS ,D . ,R OSCOE ,T . , AND KUBIA TOWICZ ,J .
Handling churn in a DHT. In Proc. of the 2004 Usenix Annual
Technical Conference (June 2004).
[32] R ODRIGUES ,R . , AND LISKOV , B. High availability in DHTs:
Erasure coding vs. replication. In Proc. of the 4th International
W orkshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems(Feb. 2005).
[33] S AITO ,Y . ,F RŒLUND ,S . ,V EITCH ,A . ,M ERCHANT ,A . , AND
SPENCE , S. FAB: building distributed enterprise disk arrays from
commodity components. In Proc. of the 11th Intl. Conference on
Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating
Systems (New Y ork, NY , 2004), ACM Press, pp. 48–58.
[34] S IT,E . ,D ABEK ,F . , AND ROBERTSON , J. UsenetDHT: A low
overhead Usenet server. In Proc. of the 3rd International W orkshop
on Peer-to-Peer Systems (Feb. 2004).
[35] S TRIBLING ,J . ,C OUNCILL ,I .G . ,L I,J . ,K AASHOEK ,M .F . ,
KARGER ,D .R . ,M ORRIS ,R . , AND SHENKER , S. OverCite: A
cooperative digital research library. In Proc. of the 4th Interna-
tional W orkshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems(Feb. 2005).
[36] S TRIBLING ,J . ,L I,J . ,C OUNCILL ,I .G . ,K AASHOEK ,M .F . ,
AND MORRIS , R. Exploring the design of multi-site web services
using the OverCite digital library . In Proc. of the 3rd Symposium
on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (May 2006).
[37] T AT I,K . , AND VOELKER , G. M. On object maintenance in peer-
to-peer systems. In Proc. of the 5th International W orkshop on
Peer-to-Peer Systems (Feb. 2006).
[38] VA N RENESSE ,R . , AND SCHNEIDER , F. B. Chain replication
for supporting high throughput and availability . In Proc. of the
6th Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation
(Dec. 2004).
[39] W EA THERSPOON ,H . ,C HUN , B.-G., S O,C .W . , AND KUBIA -
TOWICZ , J. Long-term data maintenance in wide-area storage sys-
tems: A quantitative approach. Tech. Rep. UCB//CSD-05-1404, U.
C. Berkeley, July 2005.
[40] W EA THERSPOON ,H . , AND KUBIA TOWICZ , J. D. Erasure cod-
ing vs. replication: A quantitative comparison. In Proc. of the 1st
International W orkshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems(Mar. 2002).
NSDI ’06: 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design & Implementation USENIX Association58