On Ends-to-Ends Encryption:
Asynchronous Group Messaging with Strong Security Guarantees
Katriel Cohn-Gordon∗1, Cas Cremers2, Luke Garratt1, Jon Millican3, and Kevin Milner1
1Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford
2CISPA Helmholtz Center for Information Security, Saarland Informatics Campus, Germany
3Facebook
Version 2.3, March 2nd, 2020 †
Abstract
In the past few years secure messaging has become mainstream, with over a billion
active users of end-to-end encryption protocols such as Signal. The Signal Protocol provides
a strong property called post-compromise security to its users. However, it turns out that
many of its implementations provide, without notiﬁcation, a weaker property forgroup
messaging: an adversary who compromises a single group member can read and inject
messages indeﬁnitely.
We show for the ﬁrst time that post-compromise security can be achieved in realistic,
asynchronous group messaging systems. We present a design called Asynchronous Ratchet-
ing Trees (ART), which uses tree-based Diﬃe-Hellman key exchange to allow a group of
users to derive a shared symmetric key even if no two are ever online at the same time.
ART scales to groups containing thousands of members, while still providing provable
security guarantees. It has seen signiﬁcant interest from industry, and forms the basis
for two draft IETF RFCs and a chartered working group. Our results show that strong
security guarantees for group messaging are practically achievable in a modern setting.
∗K.C-G. thanks Merton College and the Oxford CDT in Cyber Security for their support.
†An extended abstract of this paper appears at ACM CCS 2018 [15]; this is the full version. A summary of
changes is given in Appendix F.
1

communications
under attack
communications
under attack
compromise
forward
secrecy (FS)
compromise
post-compromise
security (PCS)
Figure 1: Attack scenarios of forward secrecy and PCS, with the communications under attack marked
in bold and time from left to right. Forward secrecy protects againstlater compromise; PCS protects
against earlier compromise.
1 Introduction
The security of secure messaging systems has improved substantially over recent years; WhatsApp
now provides end-to-end encryption for its billion active users, based on Open Whisper Systems’
Signal Protocol [38, 55], and The Guardian publishes Signal contact details for its investigative
journalism teams [53].
The Signal Protocol and its variants oﬀer a security property called Post-Compromise
Security (PCS) [14], sometimes referred to as “future secrecy” or “self-healing”. For PCS, even if
Alice’s device is entirely compromised by an adversary, she will automatically re-establish secure
communications with others after a single unintercepted exchange, even if she was not aware
of the compromise. Thus, PCS limits the scope of a compromise, forcing an adversary to act
as a permanent active man-in-the-middle if they wish to exploit knowledge of a long-term key.
This can serve as a powerful impediment to mass-surveillance techniques. Thus far, PCS-style
properties have only been proven for point-to-point protocols [13], and they are only achievable
by stateful ones [14]. Figure 1 illustrates the diﬀerence between forward secrecy and PCS.
Because it raises the bar for mass-surveillance, we see PCS as an important property for any
modern secure messaging protocol.
Systems like WhatsApp and Signal are designed to be usable by anyone, not just experts,
and to provide much of the same functionality as existing insecure messaging applications.
To that end, they must work within a number of constraints, an important one of which is
asynchronicity: Alice must be able to send messages to Bob even if Bob is currently oﬄine.
Typically, the encrypted message is temporarily stored on a (possibly untrusted) server, to be
delivered to Bob once he comes online again. Asynchronicity means that standard techniques
for forward secrecy, such as a DH key exchange, do not apply directly. This has driven the
development of novel techniques to achieve forward secrecy without interaction, e.g., using
sets of precomputed DH “prekeys” [37] that Bob uploads to a server, or by using puncturable
encryption [25].
Group and multi-device messaging is important for many users, and various implementers
have designed their own protocols to support it. However, since group conversations must also be
asynchronous, it is not straightforward to adapt existing group key exchange (GKE) protocols,
which usually require a number of interactive rounds of communication, to this context. An
alternative is to use a two-party protocol between every pair of group members, but as group
sizes become larger, this leads to ineﬃcient systems in which the bandwidth and computational
cost for sending a message grows linearly with the group size. In many real-world scenarios,
this ineﬃciency is a problem, especially where bandwidth is restricted or expensive e.g., 2G
networks in the developing world1.
1The 2015 State of Connectivity report byinternet.org [26] lists aﬀordability of mobile data as one of
2

In fact, modern messaging protocols which provide PCS for two-party communications
generally drop this guarantee for their group messaging implementations without notifying
the users. For example, WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger and Google Allo have mechanisms
to achieve PCS for two-party communications, but for conversations containing three or more
devices they use a simpler key-transport mechanism (“sender keys”) which does not achieve
PCS [20, 55]. Indeed, in these systems, an adversary who fully compromises a single group
member can indeﬁnitely and passively read future communications in that group (though certain
events, e.g. removing a device, may cause group changes and generation of new keys). In
practice this means that in these apps, if a third party is added to a two-party communication,
the security of the communication is decreased without informing the users.
Thequestionthusarises: isthereasecuregroupmessagingsolutionthat(i)allowsparticipants
to communicateasynchronously, (ii)scales sublinearly in the group size, and (iii) admitsstrong
security guaranteessuch as PCS? In this paper we address this open question, and show how to
devise a protocol that achieves it. Our main contributions are:
(1) We design a fully-asynchronous tree-based GKE protocol that oﬀers modern strong security
properties, called Asynchronous Ratcheting Trees (ART). ART derives a group key for a set
of agents without any pair needing to be online at the same time, a requirement for modern
messaging protocols. Notably, ART’s properties include PCS: messages can be secret even
after total compromise of an agent.
ART has seen signiﬁcant interest from industry and is the basis of the IETF MLS working
group and two draft RFCs [42].
(2) We give a game-based computational security model for our protocol, building on multi-
stage models to capture the key updates. This allows us to encode strong properties such as
PCS. We give a game-hopping computational proof of the unauthenticated core of our ART
protocol, with an explicit reduction to thePRF-ODH problem, and a mechanised symbolic
veriﬁcation of its authentication property using theTamarinprover. Our hybrid argument
follows e.g. [33].
(3) We present and evaluate a proof-of-concept Java implementation of ART’s core algorithms,
increasing conﬁdence in the practicality and feasibility of our design.
Our design approach is of independent interest beyond our speciﬁc construction. In particular,
by using simple and well-studied constructions, our design should allow many insights from the
existing literature in (synchronous) group protocols to be applied in the asynchronous setting.
We give examples, including dynamic groups, in Section 8.We provide the proof-of-concept
implementation and evaluation data at [41].
2 Background and Related Work
There has been research into group messaging protocols for decades, and we do not aim to
survey the entire ﬁeld of literature. We discuss here several previous classes of approach. A key
point which distinguishes our work from past research is our focus on asynchronicity and PCS;
ART can derive a group key with PCS even if no two participants are ever online at the same
time.
the four major barriers to global connectivity, with a developing-world average monthly data use of just 255
MB/device.
3

grk
ι(gι(gλ1λ2)ι(gλ3λ4)) ; gι(gι(gλ1λ2 )ι(gλ3λ4 ))
ι(gλ1λ2) ; gι(gλ1λ2)
λ1 ; gλ1 λ2 ; gλ2
ι(gλ3λ4) ; gι(gλ3λ4)
λ3 ; gλ3 λ4 ; gλ4
ι(gι(gλ5λ6)ι(gλ7)) ; gι(gι(gλ5λ6 )ι(gλ7 ))
ι(gλ5λ6) ; gι(gλ5λ6)
λ5 ; gλ5 λ6 ; gλ6
λ7 ; gλ7
Figure 2: Example DH tree. We mark each node with its secret and public keys, separated by; .
Recall that theλj denote leaf keys, andι(·) denotes the mapping from group elements to integers. The
path fromλ5 to the root is marked in solid red, and theboxed nodes lie on its copath. An agent who
knowsλ5 and the public keys on its copath can computegrk by repeated DH operations.
2.1 Other Group Messaging Protocols
OTR-style Goldberg, Ustaoglu, Van Gundy, and Chen [23] deﬁne Multi-Party Oﬀ the Record
Messaging (mpOTR) as a generalisation of the classic OTR [6] protocol, aiming for security and
deniability in online messaging. mpOTR has since given rise to a number of interactive protocols
such as (N + 1)sec [19]. The general design of this family is as follows. First, parties conduct a
number of interactive rounds of communication in order to derive a group key. Second, parties
communicate online, perhaps performing additional cryptographic operations. Finally, there
may be a closing phase (for instance, to assess transcript consistency between all participants).
All of these protocols are intrinsically synchronous: they require all parties to come online at
the same time for the initial key exchange. This is not a problem in their context of XMPP-style
instant messaging, but does not work for mobile and unreliable networks.
Assuming an authentic network [11, 52] discuss “asynchronous” GKE in the setting
of distributed systems, in the sense that they do not rely on a centralised clock. They require
several interactive rounds of communication, and do not provide PCS.
Physical approaches Some work uses physical constraints to restrict malicious group
members. For example, HoPoKey [40] has its participants arrange themselves into a circle, with
neighbours interacting. This allows it to derive strong security properties. We, however, will
not assume physical co-location.
Sender Keys If participants have secure pairwise channels, they can send encrypted
“broadcast” keys to each group member separately, and then broadcast their messages encrypted
under those keys. This is implemented inlibsignal as the “Sender Keys” variant of the Signal
Protocol [55]. However, it sacriﬁces some of the strong security properties achieved by the
Double Ratchet: if an adversary ever learns a sender key, it can subsequently eavesdrop on all
messages and impersonate the key’s owner in the group, even though it cannot do so over the
pairwise Signal channels (whose keys are continuously updated). This variant does not have
PCS.
Regularly broadcasting new sender keys over the secure pairwise channels prevents this type
of attack. However, since new sender keys must be sent separately to each group member, this
scales linearly in the size of the group for a given key rotation frequency.
n-party DH Perhaps the most natural generalisation of DH key updates ton parties
would be a primitive that allows for the following: given all ofgx0,...,g xn and a singlexi
(i≤ n), derive a valuegrk which is hard to compute without knowing one of thexi. With
4

n = 2 this can be achieved by traditional DH, and withn = 3 Joux [27] gives a pairing-based
construction. However, for generaln construction of such a primitive is a known open problem.
[4] essentially generalise the Joux protocol with a construction from an(n− 1)-non-degenerate
linear map on the integers, and [5, 36] construct it from iO.
Tree-based group DH There is a very large body of literature on tree-based group key
agreement schemes. An early example is the “audio teleconference system” of Steer, Strawczynski,
Diﬃe, and Wiener [51], and the seminal academic work is perhaps Wallner, Harder, and Agee
[54] or Wong, Gouda, and Lam [56]. Later examples include [7, 9, 12, 18, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 35,
44, 45, 57], among many others. These protocols assign private DH keys to leaves of a binary2
tree, deﬁning (i)gxy as the secret key of a node whose two children have secret keysx and
y, and (ii)ggxy
as its public or ‘blinded’ key. Recursively computing secret keys through the
tree, starting from the leaves, yields a value at the root which we call the “tree key”, with the
property that it can only be computed with knowledge of at least one secret leaf key. We depict
a generic DH tree in Figure 2.
In order to compute the secret keygxy = (gy)x assigned to a non-leaf node, an agent must
know the secret keyx of one of its children and the public keygy of the other. Thus, to compute
the tree key requires an agent to know (i) one secret leaf keyλj, and (ii) all public node keys
pk1 to pkn along itscopath, where the copath of a node is the list of sibling nodes along its path
to the tree root. The group key is computed by alternately exponentiating the next public key
with the current secret, and applying the mapping from group elements to integers.
The online exchanges in these protocols are due to, at least in part, the requirement for
agents to know the public keys on their copath. For example, in Figure 2 on the preceding page,
node 5 must know (but cannot compute just from thegλj) all boxed public keys. Other agents
may be chosen by the messaging system to compute and broadcast public keys at intermediate
nodes; for example, Kim, Perrig, and Tsudik [32] describe a system of subtree “sponsors” who
broadcast select public keys. However, none of these solutions provide PCS, because they do
not support updating keys.
2.2 Deployed Implementations
Several widely-used mobile apps deploy encrypted group messaging protocols. We survey some
of the most popular, giving asymptotic eﬃciencies for three main designs in Table 1 on page 7.
In concurrent work, [46] examine the group messaging protocols used by WhatsApp, Signal and
Threema, ﬁnding a number of vulnerabilities related to their group operations.
WhatsApp implements end-to-end encryption for group messaging using the Sender Keys
variant of Signal for all groups of size3+, using the existing support for Signal in pairwise
channels. Sender keys are rotated whenever a participant is removed from a group but otherwise
are never changed; an adversary who learns a sender key can therefore impersonate or eavesdrop
on its owner until the group changes.
WhatsApp also supports multiple devices for a single user. To do so, it deﬁnes the mobile
phone as a master device and allows secondary devices to connect by scanning a QR code.
When Alice sends a message from a secondary device, WhatsApp ﬁrst sends the message to
her mobile phone, and then over the pairwise Signal channel to the intended peer. While this
method does allow for multiple device functionality, it suﬀers from the downside that Alice
cannot use WhatsApp from any device if her phone is oﬄine.
2Some constructions use ternary trees; the underlying concept is the same.
5

Facebook Messenger Secret Conversations similarly uses the Sender Keys variant of
Signal for all conversations involving3+ devices [20]. As in the WhatsApp implementation,
Sender Keys are only rotated when a device is removed from a conversation.
Apple iMessage uses pairwise channels: one copy of each message is encrypted and sent
for each group member over pairwise encrypted channels. We remark that this indicates that in
a group of sizen, performing∼ 2n asymmetric operations per message was considered practical
on a 2009 iPhone 3GS.
Signal The Signal mobile application uses pairwise Signal channels for group messaging3,
with additional devices on a Signal account implemented as ﬁrst class participants.
SafeSlinger [21] is a secure messaging app whose goal is usable, “privacy-preserving and
secure group credential exchange”. It aims for message secrecy under an adversary model that
allows for malicious participants. The two greatest diﬀerences between ART and SafeSlinger are
security goalsand synchronicity. First, ART is explicitly designed to achieve PCS of message
keys, while SafeSlinger instead aims for (non-forward) secrecy and just derives a single group
key. Of necessity [14], ART must therefore support stateful and iterated key derivations. Using
SafeSlinger’s unbalanced DH key tree with ART’s key updates, while reducing the computational
load on the initiator, would take linear (versus logarithmic) time. Second, SafeSlinger is a
synchronous protocol with commitment, veriﬁcation and secret-sharing rounds, in which all
group members must be online concurrently. ART, on the other hand, is an asynchronous
protocol which supports messaging oﬄine members.
3 Objectives
Security properties for AKE protocols are extremely well-studied. We now describe our high-level
threat model and security goals.
Secrecy and Authentication Our fundamental goal is conﬁdentiality and authenticity
of keys: an active adversary should not learn keys shared between Alice and Bob.
Post-Compromise Security (PCS) Traditional security models do not provide any
guarantees after the long-term keys of a participant are compromised: it is not considered an
attack to learn Bob’s identity key and then impersonate him to Alice. Cohn-Gordon, Cremers,
and Garratt [14] deﬁned PCS to cover this scenario, showing that it is achievable through the
use of persistent protocol state.
We aim explicitly to achieve a form of PCS in our messaging protocols: if the full state of a
group member is compromised (long-term and other derived keys) but the group conversation
continues without interference, the resulting group key should be secret.
Absent this goal, many simpler designs are possible. In particular, the “sender keys” variant of
Signal meets our other criteria; its weakness is that learning a sender key enables the computation
of all future message keys. PCS is a major distinguishing feature of modern two-party messaging
protocols, and oﬀers signiﬁcant protection from adversaries with large resources, forcing them
to actively interfere in all communications even after they manage to temporarily compromise a
device.
Poor randomness Security models such as extended Canetti-Krawczyk and its generali-
sations [16, 34] allow revealing random numbers generated by a party whose long-term keys
3Based on source code inspection [43].
6

Table 1: Asymptotic eﬃciencies and properties of some group messaging solutions as a function of
the group sizen. “Pairwise Signal” denotes sending a group message repeatedly over individual Signal
channels. In the setup phase, the values here refer to the total work done for all users to reach a point
where no further setup is required and “sender” refers to the creator of the group. In the sending phase,
“other” refers to a recipient of a message. We provide concrete measurements in Section 7.
number of
exponentiations
number of sym-
metric encryptions bandwidth PCS
sender per other sender per other sender per other
sender keys
setup O(n) O(n) O(n) O(n) O(n) O(n) 
ongoing 0 0 1 1 O(1) O(1)
pairwise
Signal
setup O(n) O(n) 0 0 O(n) O(n) 
ongoing O(n) O(1) n− 1 1 O(n) O(1)
our
solution
setup O(n) O(log(n)) 0 0 O(n) O(n) 
ongoing O(log(n)) O(log(n)) 1 1 O(log(n)) O(log(n))
are uncompromised. However, many widely-used protocols (such as TLS 1.3 or Signal) do not
achieve this. Here we aim for some security in the face of revealed randomness.
3.1 Security properties
Informally, we want our messaging protocol to provideimplicit authentication and message
secrecy against various strong adversaries:
Security under a network adversary.The adversary has full control of message delivery, able
to intercept, read and modify any messages sent over the network.
Forward secrecy.Once an agent has derived a session key, revealing long-term keys or any
random values from subsequent operations should not compromise its security.
PCS [14]. If a stage derives a key, but at least one previous stage was uncompromised, the
derived key should be secret. Equivalently, after all of a party’s secrets are compromised,
if an intermediate stage completes with an uncorrupted key, then all subsequent stages
should be secure.
PCS is a goal which previous work does not aim for. As discussed earlier, without PCS an
adversary who compromises one participant may be able to intercept group messages indeﬁnitely,
a property which does not hold of two-party Signal communications.
3.2 Properties Out of Scope
Our goal in this work is to provide a provably-secure design for an asynchronous group messaging
system. In the interest of transparency, therefore, we discuss here some important messaging-
related problems which we do not set out to solve, referring the reader to other research or
designs. By “out of scope” we do not mean that these problems are unimportant or their
solutions unnecessary—rather, merely that we are not setting out to solve them in this work. In
many cases, a solution will indeed be necessary in a large-scale practical deployment. As we will
see later, our designs build on well-studied DH tree based systems, thereby enabling the reuse
of existing solutions as components.
7

3.2.1 Sender-speciﬁc authentication
In a group, authentication becomes more subtle: if Alice, Bob and Charlie share a symmetric
key and Alice receives a message encrypted under it which she did not send, she can conclude
only that either Bob or Charlie sent it. Depending on the context, this may not be a desirable
property of a group messaging system—in OTR it is considered a feature as a form of deniability,
while in Signal Protocol it is ruled out by sender keys’ explicit signatures. We choose the simpler
option and do not include signature keys, discussing this topic further in Section 8.
Centralised, unencrypted group messaging systems usually provide individual authentication
via the service provider’s accounts. For example, Facebook Messenger group chats do not allow
Bob to impersonate Charlie, because Bob must log into his Facebook account to send a message.
We do not assume such a trusted third party in our analyses. Of course, an encrypted messaging
system canalso include authentication from a third party.
3.2.2 Malicious group members
In the two-party case, traditional security properties generally assume that the peer to a session
is honest. Withn parties, there is an intermediate condition: whenm < nmembers of the
group are honest. For example, Abdalla, Chevalier, Manulis, and Pointcheval [1] give a GKE
protocol which enables subsets of the group to derive their own key, aiming for security in a
subset even if another group member is malicious.
Although these properties are useful, we consider them orthogonal to our core research
question. Moreover, because we use standard constructions from the (synchronous) literature, we
anticipate that extending our design to handle group membership changes should be relatively
straightforward. We discuss dynamic groups further in Section 8.
Trust in the Initiator A particular example of a malicious insider is the group creator, who
may be able to choose malicious initial values. For example, a malicious creator might be able to
secretly add an eavesdropper to a group without revealing their presence to the other (honest)
group members. (Note that they could of course just publish the received messages, regardless
of the protocol.) As for any other group member, we consider this attack out of scope.
ART’s asynchronicity constraint means that Alice must be able to send a message to a group
she has just created, even if none of the other participants have yet been online. ART’s design
allows for this, but at a cost: if Alice is corrupted during this initial phase, the resulting stage
keys are insecure until all group members have performed an update. We capture this increased
requirement in our freshness predicates, and note that one can remove it if all participants are
online, by having each one in turn perform a key update. Our approach here is related to that
of the zero round-trip (0RTT) mode of TLS 1.3, in which agents can achieve asynchronicity at
the cost of a weaker security property for early messages.
3.2.3 Executability
Implementations of group messaging systems must deal with desynchronisation of state: if Bob
attempts to update his state without realising that Alice has already performed an update which
he does not know about, he may lose track of the current group key. In particular, if Alice and
Bob both send a key update at the same time, only one can consistently be applied; this does
not violate any secrecy properties, but may break availability if updating a key is necessary to
8

send a message. We remark on two main techniques to avoid trivial denials of service, though a
perfect solution is an open research question (studied e.g. by [12]) and we consider it out of
scope for our work.
The ﬁrst technique is to decouple state updates from message sending: once Bob has derived
a valid sending key, the protocol may accept messages sent under that key for a short duration
even if Bob should have performed a state update. This allows Bob to send messages immediately
while in the background performing a recovery process to return to the latest group state, at
the cost of weakened security guarantees due to the extended key lifetime.
A second solution is at the transport layer, either by enforcing in-order message delivery
or by refusing to accept out-of-order key updates and instead delivering the latest group state.
That is, when the transport layer server receives a state update from Bob which was generated
based on an out-of-date state, it can refuse to accept it and instead instruct Bob to process the
latest updates and retry. Since this enforcement can operate based only on message metadata,
a malicious transport server can then violate availability but not message conﬁdentiality or
integrity. This solution works ﬁne for many group sizes, but in very large groups may cause a
server performance bottleneck.
3.2.4 Transcript agreement
In many scenarios it is valuable for all group participants to agree on the ordered list of messages
that were sent and received in the group. Although this is a useful property, it has many
subtleties that are orthogonal to our key research questions and we do not cover it here.
4 Notation
We writex :=y to denote assigningy to the variablex. We writex :=$S to denote sampling a
random element from the distributionS and assigning it to the variablex; in particular,S may
be the output distribution of a randomised functionf.
DH groups We work in a DH groupG (with generatorg) admitting a mappingι(·) :
G→ Z/|G|Z from group elements to integers, allowing us to interpret a group elementgx itself
as the secret key corresponding to a new public keygι(gx). As a convention, we use lowercase
valuesk to represent DH secret keys, and uppercase valuesK =gk to represent their associated
public keys; thus for example the public setup keySUK is deﬁned to begsuk. We denote by
DHKeyGen a randomised algorithm returning a private key in the DH group. To separate
the ART initial key exchange from the subsequent tree operations, we deﬁne a distinct key
generation algorithm KeyExchangeKeyGen that also returns a private DH key.
We assume that the followingPRF-ODH problem is hard: given a tuple(gx,gy,zb) where
z0 := ι(gxy) and z1 := ι(gz) for uniformly randomly chosenz, the advantage of any PPT
distinguisher in outputtingb is negligible.
Signatures and MACs ART uses two explicit authenticators: a signature to authenticate
theinitialgroupsetupmessage, andaMACtoauthenticatesubsequentupdates. s = Sign(m,sk )
denotes a signature of the messagem with the private keysk, and SigVerify(m,s,pk ) veriﬁes
the signature against a public keypk, returning a boolean representing whether the veriﬁcation
succeeds. µ = MAC(m,k ) is a MAC of the messagem with the symmetric key k, and
MACVerify(m,µ,k ) veriﬁes it and returns a boolean.
9

Trees We deﬁne binary trees as a combination of nodes (which contain two nested children)
and leaves (which contain no children), along with associated data at each node and leaf:
tree ::= (node(tree, tree),·)| (leaf,·). For a binary treeT, we use the notation|T| to refer to
the total number of leaves in the tree. We label each node of a tree with an index pair(x,y ),
where x represents the level of the node: the number of nodes (excluding the node itself) in
the path to the root at index(0, 0). The children of a node at index(x,y ) are (x + 1, 2y) and
(x + 1, 2y + 1). We writeTx,y for the data at index(x,y ) in a treeT. All tree nodes but the root
have a parent node and a sibling (the other node directly contained in the parent). We refer to
the copath of an node in a tree as the set comprising its sibling in the tree, the sibling of its
parent node in the tree, and so on until reaching the root. An example of a copath is shown in
Figure 2. Finally, we usually associate a secret keyx and corresponding public keygx to each
node, which we denote by labelling nodes withx ; gx.
Derived Keys ART contains various types of key:
Leaf keysλj are secret DH keys assigned to tree leaves.
Node keys nk are secret DH keys assigned to non-leaf nodes.
Tree keys tk are secret values derived at the tree rootT0,0.
Stage keys sk are derived by combining the latesttk with the previoussk, using a hash chain.
Note that stage keyssk play the role of “root keys” in the two-party Signal protocol. We avoid
the term “root” to prevent confusion with the root of the DH tree.
5 Design
We now present ART’s core designs, in two parts.
First, we give a tree-based group DH protocol related to those from Section 2.1, but unlike
those protocols ours is the ﬁrstfully asynchronous design. In other words, it is possible for
all group members including the creator to conduct the key exchange protocol and derive the
shared group key without waiting for any other group member to respond to a message. This is
necessary in order to use a group AKE protocol in practical deployments, where group members
may be oﬄine due to e.g., unreliable mobile network connections.
Second, we deﬁne an eﬃcient protocol for an ART group member toupdate their personal
keys and establish a new shared group key, using the underlying tree structure in the group.
This update protocol enables Post-Compromise Security: if a group member’s local state is
compromised but they are later able to perform an update without adversarial interference,
then the group key derived after their update will once again be secret and authentic. ART is
the ﬁrst group AKE protocol to provide PCS.
Informal explanations of our algorithms follow in Sections 5.1 and 5.2, and formal deﬁnitions
in pseudocode are presented in Appendix A. Example trees are shown in Figure 3.
5.1 ART Construction
The main reason that we cannot directly deploy a tree DH protocol is that the initiator may be
the only online member when creating a group. Indeed, in a four-person group, even if Alice has
public keys to use for the three other leaves, she cannot compute the public key of the parent
node ofC and D (marked below as “?”).
10

Alice generates a new ART tree with
λB
1 = KeyExchange(ika, IKb, suk, EKb)
λC
1 = KeyExchange(ika, IKc, suk, EKc)
λD
1 = KeyExchange(ika, IKd, suk, EKd)
and broadcasts all the public keys.
KeyExchange must be a strong one-
round AKE protocol but ART does not have
speciﬁc requirements on its structure.
gι(gλA
1λB
1 )ι(gλC
1 λD
1 )
ι(gλA
1λB
1 ) ; gι(gλA
1λB
1 )
λA
1 ; gλA
1 λB
1 ; gλB
1
ι(gλC
1λD
1 ) ; gι(gλC
1 λD
1 )
λC
1 ; gλC
1 λD
1 ; gλD
1
(a) Alice creates an ART group with three other members.
Alice updates their key by choosing a new leaf
keyλA
2, computing the updated nodes
gλA
2λB
1 =
(
gλB
1
)λA
2
gι(gλA
2λB
1 )ι(gλC
1 λD
1 ) =
(
gι(gλC
1 λD
1 )
)ι(gλA
2λB
1 )
on the path from λA
2 to the tree root, and
broadcasting the updated public keys to the
group.
gι(gλA
2λB
1 )ι(gλC
1 λD
1 )
ι(gλA
2λB
1 ) ; gι(gλA
2λB
1 )
λA
2 ; gλA
2 λB
1 ; gλB
1
ι(gλC
1λD
1 ) ; gι(gλC
1 λD
1 )
λC
1 ; gλC
1 λD
1 ; gλD
1
(b) Alice updates, choosing a fresh leaf key and broadcasting updated public keys. Updated nodes are shown in
boxed red
Charlie updates their key in the same way: by
choosing a new leaf keyλC
2 , computing the
updated nodes on the path fromλC
2 to the tree
root, and broadcasting the updated public keys
to the group.
gι(gλA
2λB
1 )ι(gλC
2 λD
1 )
ι(gλA
2λB
1 ) ; gι(gλA
2λB
1 )
λA
2 ; gλA
2 λB
1 ; gλB
1
ι(gλC
2λD
1 ) ; gι(gλC
2 λD
1 )
λC
2 ; gλC
2 λD
1 ; gλD
1
(c) Charlie updates their key in the same way.
Figure 3: Example ART tree creation and updates. We write secret keys and the corresponding
public keys at each node except the root, separated by‖. Leaf keys are denotedλu
i, whereu is the
corresponding identity andi a counter.ι(·) denotes a mapping from group elements to integers. From
any secret leaf key and the set of public keys on its copath, an agent can compute the tree key by
repeated exponentiation.
11

shared group key
ι(gkAkB) ; gι(gkAkB)
ι(kA) ; gι(kA) ι(kB) ; gι(kB)
?
ι(kC) ; gι(kC) ι(kD) ; gι(kD)
Our insight here is that the initiator should not directly use received public keys at the leaf
nodes, since then they cannot derive their parents’ public keys. Instead, we propose a design in
which they derive secret keys for each leaf node with the properties that
(i) for each group member, both the initiator and that group member can asynchronously
derive the secret key assigned to that leaf node but
(ii) no other actor (group member or adversary) can derive that secret key.
The creator can use their knowledge of all the secret keys to compute the intermediate public keys
in the tree, subsequently deleting the leaf secrets. (This leads to additional trust assumptions on
the initiator, but assumptions which are mitigated by the key update protocol we deﬁne later.)
How can we derive these leaf secrets? Our core insight is that they can be the session keys of
any strong one-round AKE protocol, which we denoteKeyExchange. KeyExchange takes
two private keysek and ik and two public keysEK and IK and returns a bitstring, with the
property that KeyExchange(ikI, IKR, ekI, EKR) = KeyExchange(ikR, IKI, ekR, EKI).4
To use such a protocol we leverage the existing idea ofprekeys and introduce the new
idea of asetup key. Prekeys were ﬁrst introduced by Marlinspike [37] for asynchronicity in
the TextSecure messaging app. They are DH ephemeral public keys cached by an untrusted
intermediate server, and fetched on demand by messaging clients. The prekeys are sent to clients
through the public key infrastructure at the same time as long-term identity keys, and act as
initial messages for a one-round AKE protocol.
To enable computing an initial tree for a group, we introduce the idea of a one-time DH
setup key, generated locally by the creator of a group and used only during the creation of that
session. This key is used to perform an initial key exchange with the prekeys, and allows the
initiator to generate secret leaf keys for the other group members while they are oﬄine.
Asynchronous tree construction works as follows. Suppose the initiator (“Alice”) wishes to
create a group of sizen containing herself andn− 1 peers. She begins by generating a DH
key suk we call the setup key. She then requests from the public-key infrastructure the public
identity keyIK and an ephemeral prekeyEK for each of her intended peers (“Bob”, “Charlie”,
...), numbering them 1 through n− 1. Using her secret identity keyika and the setup keysuk
together with the received public keys for each peer, she executes a one-round key exchange
protocol to derive leaf keysλ1,...,λ n−1. Using these generated leaf keys together with a fresh
leaf keyλ0, she builds a DH tree whose root becomes the initial group key.
We do not force a particular instantiation ofKeyExchange. For example, it can be
instantiated with an unauthenticated DH exchange between Alice’s setup key and Bob’s prekey,
resulting in an unauthenticated tree structure. This is the design we analyse in Section 6.2. A
more practical instantiation (discussed in Section 6.3) is with a strong AKE protocol which
provides authentication, in which case the group key can inherit the authentication properties.
To create a group, Alice broadcasts
4If the AKE protocol has a diﬀerent algorithm for the initiator and responder, we can add an additonal ‘Role’
argument.
12

(i) the public prekeys(EKi) and identities (IKi) she used,
(ii) the public setup keySUK,
(iii) the treeT of public keys, and
(iv) a signature of (i),(ii),(iii) under her identity key.
Upon receiving such a message and verifying the signature, each group member can reproduce the
computationofthetreekey. First, theycomputetheirleafkey λi = KeyExchange(iki, IKA, eki, SUK ).
Second, they extract their copath of public keys from the tree. Finally, they iteratively exponen-
tiate with the public keys on the copath until they reach the ﬁnal key, which by construction is
the shared secret at the root of the tree. (Recall that we call this shared secret the “tree key”tk,
and derive from it the stage keysk.)
We give a pseudocode deﬁnition of these algorithms in Figure 8 on page 29, Algorithms 1,2
and 3.
5.2 ART Updates
To achieve PCS, we must be able toupdate stage keys in a way that depends both on state
from previous stages and on newly exchanged messages. (Cohn-Gordon, Cremers, and Garratt
[14] prove necessity of this double dependency.) Since PCS is an explicit goal of ART, it must
therefore support an eﬃcient mechanism for any group member to update their key.
If e.g., Alice changes her leaf key, other group members can compute all the intermediate
values in the resulting updated tree using only (i) their view of the tree before the change, and
(ii) the list of updated public DH keys of nodes along the path from Alice’s leaf node to the
root of the tree. This update is eﬃcient and asynchronous, since Alice can compute (ii) in
logarithmic time and broadcast it to the group with her new leaf key.
Speciﬁcally, if at any point Alice wishes to change her leaf key fromλb to λ′
b, she computes
the new public keys at all nodes along the path from her leaf to the tree root, and broadcasts to
the group her public leaf key together with these public keys. She authenticates this message
with a MAC under a key derived from the previous stage key. A group member who receives
such a message can update their stored copath (at the node on the intersection of the two paths
to the root). Computing the key induced by this new path yields the updated group key, and
can be done purely locally.
We give a pseudocode deﬁnition of these algorithms in Figure 8, Algorithms 4 and 5.
Stage key chaining In order to achieve PCS, stage keys cannot be independent—instead,
each stage key must depend on both the recent message exchange and on previous stages. As
long as one of these two sources of secret data is unknown to the adversary, the stage key will be
as well. (Cohn-Gordon, Cremers, and Garratt [14] prove an impossibility result that no stateless
protocol can achieve PCS, giving a generic attack.) The resulting stage keys form a hash chain
as depicted in Figure 4.
5.3 Algorithms
We give pseudocode algorithms for all of the operations in our design in Figure 8 on page 29. As
an example, consider the situation where Alice wishes to create a group with ﬁve other agents,
using Algorithm 1. She begins by generating a setup keypair with secret keysuk, and a leaf
keypair with secret keyλ0 for herself. She retrieves the public identity and ephemeral prekeys
of each peer, and creates the tree in Figure 5.
13

KDFπ.sk π.sk′ KDF π.sk′′
π.tk π.tk′
Figure 4: Derivation of stage keysπ.sk. When a new tree keyπ.tk is computed (as the root of a DH
tree), it is combined with the current stage key to derive a new stage keyπ.sk′, etc. This “chaining” of
keys is an important ingredient for achieving PCS. Note that the ART KDF also includesπ.IDs and
π.T, per Algorithm 2 on page 29.
grk 0
gι(gλ0λ1)ι(gλ2λ3)
gλ0λ1
λ0 λ1=EK suk
1
gλ2λ3
λ2=EK suk
2 λ3=EK suk
3
gλ4λ5
λ4=EK suk
4 λ5=EK suk
5
Figure 5: Alice sets up a new tree with herself and ﬁve other agents. The copath of Agent 4 is shown
boxed.
grk 1
gι(gλ0λ1)ι(gλ2λ3)
gλ0λ1
λ0 λ1
gλ2λ3
λ2 λ3
gλ′
4λ5
λ′
4 λ5
Figure 6: Agent 4 updates their leaf key. The path of Agent 4 is shown in solid red, and the copath of
Alice (Agent 0) is shown boxed.
14

She then sends each agent their respective copath and the prekey she used to set them up in
the tree, along with the identities of the other group members and the public setup key. For
example, the agent Edward at index 4 would receive
4, IK Alice, IK 1,..., IK 5, EK 4, SUK,gι(gι(gλ0λ1 )ι(gλ2λ3 )),gλ5.
In her own state, Alice stores her leaf key, the ordered list of public identity keys, the tree key,
and her copath. Finally, she derives the stage key used for messaging viaDeriveStageKeyin
Algorithm 2.
Parsing this message (Algorithm 3) allows Edward to identify his position in the group tree,
and to construct the group key usingDeriveStageKey. If Edward then wishes to update his
key, he runs Algorithm 4, generating a new leaf keyλ′
4 and recomputing the path up to the
root. This results in the new tree shown in Figure 6. He then sends the key update message
4,gλ′
4,gι(gλ′
4λ5) comprising his index as well as the path of public keys excluding the root, stores
the updated leaf key and tree key, and computes the new stage key withDeriveStageKey.
Upon receiving this key update message, Alice determines her new copath, which has been
modiﬁed by one of the new public keys sent by Edward. This is done by executing Algorithm 5.
From this, she computes the new tree key. Finally, she invokesDeriveStageKeyto compute
the new stage key.
6 Security Analysis
We perform our security analysis in two parts.
First, we give a detailed computational security model for multi-stage GKE protocols, and
instantiate it with anunauthenticated version of our construction in which the initial leaf
keys are derived directly from the setup key and prekeys. This allows us to capture the core
security properties of the key updates, including PCS, without focusing on the properties of the
authenticated key exchange used for the initial construction. In the unauthenticated model, we
prove indistinguishability of group keys from random values using game-hopping.
Second, we show that authentication can be provided by deriving the initial leaf keys from a
non-interactive key exchange, whose security property also applies to the resulting tree key. We
give an example construction using the X3DH protocol [39] (extended with the static-static DH
key to provide more resilience against bad randomness and the KCI attack described in [33]), and
verify its authentication property using theTamarinprover, a “security protocol veriﬁcation
tool that supports both falsiﬁcation and unbounded veriﬁcation in the symbolic model” [47].
Here, we model the tree construction as a “black-box” function of the leaf keys.
Remark 1 (On the choice of model). We adopt this approach because we believe that ART’s
complexity is beyond the scope of current computational proof techniques. In particular, our
freshness condition is already fairly complex, and its interaction with a modern AKE model
with identity key corruptions leads to a state space explosion in the proof’s cases.
We believe there is valuable future work to be done by increasing our model accuracy, for
example by developing a systematic approach to covering the distinct cases above, or by adopting
an ACCE-style deﬁnition to explicitly capture signatures and MACs.
15

6.1 Computational Model
We build on the multi-stage deﬁnition of Fischlin and Günther [22], in which sessions admit
multiple stages with distinct keys and the adversary canTest any stage. We extend their
deﬁnition to group messaging by allowing multiple peers for each session. Our model deﬁnes a
security experimentas a game played between a challenger and a probabilistic, polynomial-time
adversary. The adversary makes queries through which it can interact with the challenger,
including the ability to relay or modify messages but also to compromise certain secrets.
The adversary eventually chooses a so-calledTest session and stage, receiving—uniformly at
random—either its true key or a random key from the same distribution. It must then decide
which it has received, winning the game if it is correct. Thus, a protocol secure in this model
enjoys the property that an adversary cannot tell its true keys from random.
Similar key exchange security models generally useActivateand Runqueries for the adversary
to interact with the protocol algorithms. With these queries, however, there is no clear way for
them to instruct agents to choose one of multiple possible actions—for example, whether or
not to perform a key update. In order to clarify the distinction, we split the traditionalRun
algorithm into PRecv (“protocol receive”, to receive and process a message fromA) and PSend
(“protocol send”, to receive instructions from and then send a message toA).
Apart from this split, we use a standard set of queries and give their precise details in
Table 2 on page 30. The queries compriseCreate, ASend and ARecv (which allow the adversary
to interact with honest participants);RevSessKey and RevRandom (which model corruption of
keys used in the protocol); andTest and Guess (which are used in the security game). Since we
work in an unauthenticated model, we do not need aRevLTK query.
Sessions and stages Agents may have multiple parallel conversations with various peers.
We refer to asession as a local, long-lived communication at a particular agent; for example,
Alice may have a session with peers Bob and Charlie. Sessions at an agentu are uniquely
zero-indexed in creation order; thus for example we can refer uniquely to Alice’s fourth session
by the pair(u,i ) = (Alice, 3).
Sessions are updated instages over time, as messages are exchanged and updates processed.
Stages of a session are zero-indexed in time order, so e.g., we denote the initial stage of session
(Alice, 3) by thesession identiﬁeror sid (Alice, 3, 0). Later stages of(Alice, 3) are then denoted
(Alice, 3, 1), (Alice, 3, 2), and so on.
Deﬁnition 1(Session state). For agentu, session counteri and stage countert, thesession
state π comprises:
(i) π.u, the identityu of the current agent
(ii) π.ik, the identity key of the current agent
(iii) π.ek, the ephemeral prekeys of the current agent
(iv) π.λ, the leaf key of the current stage
(v) π.tk, the tree key of the current stage
(vi) π.sk, the stage key of current stage
(vii) π.T, the current tree (with ordered nodes) withpublic keys stored at each node
(viii) π.idx, the position of the current agent in the group
(ix) π.IDs, an ordered list of agent identiﬁers and leaf keys for the group, where the index of
each entry is the index of the corresponding leaf in the tree
(x) π. ¯P, the copath of the current agent
16

Where considering multiple distinct session states, we refer toπ =π(u,i,t ) as the state of the
tth stage of agentu’sith session.
Values inπ roughly correspond to variables in a protocol implementation. However, for the
security deﬁnitions we also keep track of some additional “bookkeeping” stateσ. Values inσ are
only used for the security game, and do not correspond to variables in a protocol implementation.
Deﬁnition 2(Bookkeeping state). For agentu, session counteri and stage countert, the
bookkeeping stateσ of (u,i,t ) is an ordered collection of the following variables.
(i) σ.i, the index of the current session among all sessions with the same agent
(ii) σ.t, the index of the current stage in the session (initialised to0 and incremented after
each new stage key is computed)
(iii) σ.status, the execution status for the current stage. Takes the valueactive at the start
of a stage, and later set to eitheraccept or reject when the stage key is computed
(iv) σ.HonestKeys, the set of ephemeral keys honestly generated in the current stage
(v) σ.𝓁[i′], the number of leaf keys received so far from nodei′ in π.T (when i′ =π.idx, this is
the number of leaf keys that(u,i ) has generated so far).
Deﬁnition 3(sid). By sid(π,σ ) we mean the triple(π.u,σ.i,σ.t ). Agents are unique, session
counters monotonically increase and session state does not change without the stage changing.
Therefore, such a tuple(u,i,t ) uniquely identiﬁes statesπ and σ if they exist.
Deﬁnition 4(Multi-stage key exchange protocol). A multi-stage key exchange protocolΠ
is deﬁned by a keyspaceK, a security parameterλ (dictating the DH group sizeq) and the
following probabilistic algorithms:
(i) (x,gx) :=$ KeyExchangeKeyGen(): generate DH keys
(ii) Activate(x,ρ, peers)→ (π,σ ): the challenger initialises the protocol state of an agentu
by accepting a long-term secret keyx, a roleρ and a listpeersof peers, creating statesπ
and σ, assigningσ.i to the smallest integer not yet used byu, and returning(π,σ )
(iii) PRecv(π,m )→π′: an agent receives a messagem, updating their protocol state fromπ
to π′
(iv) PSend(π,d )→ π′,m: an agent receives some instructionsd and sends a messagem,
updating their protocol state fromπ to π′
We set a maximum group sizeγ, which is the largest group that an agent is willing to create.
This can be application-speciﬁc.
6.2 Analysis: Unauthenticated Protocol
We can now analyse our protocol in the model of Section 6.1. In this analysis we do not consider
the use of long-term keys, considering them instead as used in the ﬁrst stage. Our freshness
criteria allow the adversary to corrupt the random values or key from any stage, but rule out
trivial attacks created by such corruptions. We deﬁne
KeyExchange(π.ik,IDs0, ek, SUK ) := SUK ek.
That is, our initial leaf nodes are constructed unauthenticated from initial ephemeral keys. In
this setting we do not need the MACs which are deﬁned in the protocol algorithms, and we do
not make any assumptions here on their security properties.
17

We deﬁnePSend(π,d ) as follows. First, validate thatd is one of “create-group” or “update-
key”, or else abort, setting the session state toreject. Then, ifd is “create-group”, execute
the initiator’s setup algorithm from Section 5.1; ifd is “update-key”, execute the initiator’s
update algorithm from Section 5.2. These algorithms are given formally asSetupGroup and
UpdateKeyin Section 8 on page 29.
We deﬁnePRecv(π,m ) as follows. For a session withσ.t = 0, validate thatm is of the
expected format, and if so then extract from it the relevant tree data and execute the responder’s
setup algorithm deﬁned in Section 5.1. For a session withσ.t> 0, again validatem but execute
the responder’s update algorithm deﬁned in Section 5.2. These algorithms are given formally as
ProcessSetupMessage and ProcessUpdateMessagein Section 8 on page 29.
Deﬁnition 5(Matching). We say that two stages with respective sids(u,i,t ) and (v,j,s ) match
if they have derived the same key and both haveσ.status = accept.
Deﬁnition 6(Freshness of a copath). Let ¯P = ¯P0,..., ¯P| ¯P|−1 be a list of group elements
representing a copath and letΛ =λ0...λ n−1 be a list of group elements representing leaf keys.
We say that¯P is theith copath induced byΛ precisely if, in the DH tree induced byΛ, each ¯Pj
is the sibling of a node on the path fromλi to the tree root, and that¯P is induced byΛ if for
some i it is theith copath induced byΛ.
We say that a copath¯P is fresh if both
(i) ¯P is theith copath induced by someΛ, and
(ii) for eachgλj∈ Λ, both
(a) there exists a stage withsid(π,σ ) = (u,i,t ) such that(λj,sid(π,σ ))∈σ.HonestKeys,
and
(b) no RevRandom(u,i,t ) query was issued.
Intuitively, a copath is fresh if it is built from honestly-generated and unrevealed leaf keys. In
particular, the copath’s owner’s leaf key must also be unrevealed, since it is included inΛ.
Deﬁnition 7(Freshness of a stage). We say that a stage with sid(u,i,t ) deriving key sk is
fresh if
(i) it has statusaccept,
(ii) the adversary has not issued aRevSessKey(u,i,t ) query,
(iii) there does not exist a stage with sid(v,j,s ) such that the adversary has issued a query
RevSessKey(v,j,s ) whose return value issk, and
(iv) one of the following criteria holds:
(a) the current copath is fresh, or
(b) t> 0 and the stage with sid(u,i,t − 1) is fresh.
Intuitively, a stage is fresh ifeither all of the leaves in the current tree are honestly generated
and unrevealedor the previous stage was fresh. The latter disjunct captures a form of PCS: if
an adversary allows a fresh stage toaccept, subsequent stages will also be fresh.
Remark 2 (Freshness of the group creator’s ﬁrst stage). Our freshness predicate encodes stronger
trust assumptions on the initiator’s ﬁrst stage than it does on subsequent updates, as discussed
in Section 3.2.2. Indeed, by criterion 7(iv-b) the creator’s ﬁrst stage is fresh only if their ﬁrst
copath is fresh. This copath is induced by the initialλj, which are added toσ.HonestKeys
during the creator’s ﬁrst stage. Thus, by criterion 6(ii-a), if the adversary issues aRevRandom
query against that stage then it will no longer be fresh. This is true until all theλj from the
initial stage have been replaced, at which point criterion 6(ii) is fulﬁlled by the stages replacing
them.
18

Capturing strong security properties Our notion of stage freshness captures the strong
security properties discussed in Section 3, by allowing the adversary toTest stages under a
number of compromise scenarios.
Authentication states that if the ephemeral keys used in a stage are from an uncorrupted
stage then only the agents who generated them can derive the group key. Indeed, for a stage to
be fresh either it or one of its ancestors must have had a fresh copath; that is, one that is built
only fromλj which were sent by other honest stages.
Forward secrecyis captured through clause (iv)a and the deﬁnition of theRevRandom query.
Indeed, suppose Alice accepts a staget and then updates her key in staget + 1. An adversary
who queriesRevRandom(...,t + 1)does not receive the randomness from staget, which therefore
remains fresh. Our model thus requires the key of staget to be indistinguishable from random
to such an adversary.
PCS is captured through clause (iv)b. Indeed, suppose the adversary has issuedRevRandom
queries against all of one of Alice’s session’s stages from0 to t except some stage 0≤ j < t.
Absent other queries, stagej is therefore considered fresh, and hence by clause (iv)b stages
j + 1,j + 2,...,t are fresh as well. Our model thus requires their keys to be indistinguishable
from random.
Deﬁnition 8(Security experiment). At the start of the game, the challenger generates the
public/private key pairs of allnP parties and sends all public info including the identities and
public keys to the adversary. The adversary then asks a series of queries before eventually
issuing a Test(u,i,t ) query, for thetth stage of theith session of useru. We can equivalently
think of the adversary as querying oracle machinesπi
u for theith session of useru.
Our notion of security is that the key of theTested stage is indistinguishable from random.
Thus, after theTest(u,i,t ) query, the challenger ﬂips a coinb :=$Uniform({0, 1}). With proba-
bility 1/2 (when b = 0) it reveals the actual stage key of useru’sith session at staget to the
adversary, and with probability1/2 (when b = 1) it reveals a uniformly randomly chosen key
instead. The adversary is allowed to continue asking queries. Eventually the adversary must
guess the bitb with a Guess(b′) query before terminating. If theTested (u,i,t ) satisﬁesfresh
and the guess is correct (b =b′), the adversary wins the game. Otherwise, the adversary loses.
We say that a multi-stage key exchange protocol issecure if the probability that any
probabilistic polynomial-time adversary wins the security experiment is bounded above by
1/2 + negl(λ), where negl(λ) tends to zero faster than any polynomial in the security parameter
λ. We now give our theorem and sketch a proof.
Remark 3 (Partnering experiment). Our freshness condition is separated into two parts, in-
distinguishability and partnering security, following the style of Brzuska, Fischlin, Warinschi,
and Williams [10]. In this setting, indistinguishability is proved under the restriction that
RevSessKey queries cannot output theTested session key, and a separate game is used to show
a form of authentication: that the session key is only derived by sessions which “should” derive
it. In our context, because (i) we are working in an unauthenticated model, and (ii) all of the
values upon which participants should agree are included as arguments to the session key KDF,
in this case the partnering experiment and its corresponding security bound mostly consist of
administrative bookkeeping. They appear in Appendix C.
Theorem 1.Let nP, nS and nT denote bounds on the number of parties, sessions and stages in
the security experiment respectively. Under thePRF-ODH assumption with KDFs modeled as
19

random oracles, the success probability of any PPT adversary against the security experiment
for our protocol is bounded above by
1
2 +
(nPnSnT
2
)
q +γ(nPnSnT
2)γ (ϵPRF-ODH + 1/q) + negl(λ)
whereϵPRF-ODH bounds the advantage of a PPT adversary against thePRF-ODH game. (This
bound depends only onϵPRF-ODH and not KeyExchange because it is unauthenticated.)
Proof sketch (full proof in Appendix C).Our proof uses the standard game hopping technique.
We start at our original security game and consider (“hop to”) similar games, bounding the
success probability of the adversary in each hop, until we reach a game that the adversary
clearly cannot win with a probability non-negligibly over1/2. As all the games’ probabilities are
related to one another, we are able to bound the original success probability of the adversary.
We make one modiﬁcation to the protocol for technical reasons: as speciﬁed, ART has
agents authenticate group creation messages with a signature under the identity key, and update
messages with a MAC on a key derived from the stage key. Because these keys are also used in
the key exchange protocol, we cannot achieve key indistinguishability notions of security. In the
computational proof, we will therefore drop the explicit authenticators from the protocol and
enforce authentication through the freshness condition instead.
The overall structure of the proof is as follows. First, we perform some administrative game
hops to avoid DH key collisions. Then, we guess the indices(u,i,t ) of the sid of theTestsession
and stage. If it is not fresh then the adversary loses. If it is fresh, we perform a case distinction
based on which clause of the freshness predicate it satisﬁes: either the current copath or a
previous stage was fresh.
In the latter case, indistinguishability holds by induction. In the former case, by deﬁnition
we know that all of the leaf keys used to generate the current stage are honestly-generated
and unrevealed. The secret key at a node with child public keysgx and gy is deﬁned to be
ι(gxy), and thus by hardness of thePRF-ODH problem we can indistinguishably replace it with
ι() of a uniformly randomly chosen group element. We perform this replacement in turn for
each non-leaf node in the tree, bounding the probability diﬀerence at each game hop with the
PRF-ODH advantage. After all non-leaves have been replaced, the tree key (and hence the stage
key) is replaced with a random group element. The success probability of the adversary against
this ﬁnal game is therefore no better than1/2. By summing probabilities throughout the various
cases we derive our overall probability bound.
Tightness of the security reduction.
As pointed out in [2], a limitation of conventional game hopping proofs for AKE-like protocols is
that they do not provide tight reductions. The underlying reason is that the reductions depend
on guessing the speciﬁc party and session under attack. In the case of a protocol with potentially
huge amounts of sessions and users, this leads to an extremely non-tight reduction. While [2]
develops some new protocols with tight reductions, their protocols are non-standard in their
setup and assumptions. In particular, there is currently no known technique for constructing a
tight reduction that is applicable to the ART protocol. Nevertheless, even loose bounds are
generally considered useful to increase conﬁdence in the security mechanisms [17, 24].
20

6.3 Analysis: Authenticated Protocol
Deriving the leaf keysλj from a one-round authenticated key exchange protocol allows for
authentication of the initial group key, in the sense that only an agent whose public key was
used for setup can derive the group key. We now give an example of such a construction, and
analyse its authentication property withTamarin.
We use X3DH extended with the static-static DH key as our one-round key exchange protocol:
agentsA andB with long term keysga andgb and ephemeral keysgx andgy derive a shared key
K =H(gay,gbx,gxy,gab). Includinggab means that knowingy is not suﬃcient to impersonate
any party toB: an adversary must also knowb. To model the authentication property we
abstract out the tree construction and replace it with a symbolic “oracle”, assigning to any set of
public keys a fresh term representing the group key they induce. Anyone may query this oracle
if they know one of the corresponding secret keys.
We useTamarin for mechanised veriﬁcation. Roughly, we model a protocol role Alice who
accepts initial key exchange messages representing new group members, adding the derived keys
to her state. At any point she may stop accepting new members and derive a group key via our
abstract oracle.
We remark that although using a more advanced authenticated key exchange protocol for
the leaves is a relatively small change, the resulting security property does not follow trivially.
In an earlier design, we considered a protocol without authentication of the initial messages.
We analysed this earlier design andTamarinfound an attack in which Alice correctly fetches
prekeys, computes a group key and sends the resulting (abstract) copath to Bob, but the
adversary modiﬁes this message to add a malicious leaf key. Knowing a leaf key for Bob’s tree,
it can then derive the resulting key even though it is accepted by Bob. TheTamarin analysis
made it clear that for the group key to be authenticated, not just theλj but also the copath of
public keys needs to be authenticated, and we improved our design accordingly.
We will release theTamarin models shortly. The model veriﬁes that the initial group
key an agent derives is secret, if none of the agents they believe to be in the group have been
compromised. The veriﬁcation is unbounded, allowing an arbitrary number of parties, instances,
and group members. The veriﬁcation of this security property proceeds automatically using
several helper lemmas, and takes∼ 15m on a modern desktop.
7 ART Implementation
We implemented the ART protocol described in Section 5 in Java, with source code available at
the URL [41]. Our goal is to demonstrate that ART is practical and eﬃcient for groups of a
realistic size. Implementation details are in Appendix D.
We compare directly to DH ratcheting with pairwise connections, noting that hash ratcheting
could be added to ART for a full comparison against Signal’s Double Ratchet. We do not
benchmark against the sender key design, because it does not achieve PCS.
For our benchmarks, we construct a simple protocol in two phases around both approaches.
The ﬁrst “setup” phase constructs a group, such that at its conclusion any member can send a
message. The second “encryption” phase performs an asymmetric update and then encrypts a
random message to the entire group. The ART instantiation of the encryption phase comprises
an update message and then a single encryption under the group key. The pairwise-channel
instantiation follows the Double Ratchet algorithm, sending an update over each channel if
21

the messaging direction changes, and encrypting the message with the latest message key for
that channel. We use 32-byte messages, since this is enough space to store an AES-256 data
encapsulation key.
We measure wall-clock time and network bandwidth consumption in various scenarios, but
our primary metric is theper-person time/bandwidth cost to send a message. This is the main
cost which is directly and repeatedly visible to users: setup costs, while also important, are only
incurred once, while this cost is incurred each time a user sends a message. All data are from a
2016 MacBook Pro with a 3.3 GHz Intel Core i7 and 16 GB of RAM.
7.1 Evaluation
Our results demonstrate that ART is practical for reasonably-sized groups, with setup and
sending both taking a few milliseconds for groups of size ten and on the order of one second for
groups of size 1000. ART’s performance compares favourably to that of pairwise DH ratcheting,
as seen in Figure 7a. This is due to server-side fanout: ART allows for broadcasting the same
(logarithmic) quantity of data to all peers, while pairwise channels require sending diﬀerent
constant-sized data to everyone.
Depending on how the broadcast is implemented, this yields slightly diﬀerent beneﬁts. In
practice, for the messaging context, broadcast is typically oﬄoaded to server-side fanout. In
this case, thetotal number of bytes transmitted in a system using ART is actually larger than
for pairwise connections, and recipients must perform a logarithmic instead of constant-size
computation5. However, in the messaging context, the total amount of data sent is often less
important than the message sending latency, which is directly proportional to the amount of
data each agent needs to send. Because ART allows for server-side fanout, distributing the
sending cost across all parties, it thus allows for signiﬁcantly lower sending latency than pairwise.
As seen in Figure 7b, the setup costs of ART and pairwise channels are comparable, with the
former consistently slightly slower than the latter but with the same asymptotic trend. However,
we do remark that pairwise channels spread a quadratic computational eﬀort evenly across all
group members, while ART requires the creator to perform a linear amount of work and the
responders to perform a logarithmic amount. Although this overhead is minimal for the group
sizes normally seen in messaging applications, for large-scale use cases the shared quadratic
eﬀort may be a signiﬁcant performance constraint.
8 Extensions
We here remark on various possible extensions to our ART design. In general, because we
use standard tree-DH techniques, much of the existing literature is directly applicable. This
means that we can directly apply well-studied techniques which do not require interactive
communication rounds.
Sender-speciﬁc authentication As early as 1999, Wallner, Harder, and Agee [54] pointed
out the issue of “sender-speciﬁc authentication”: in a system which derives a shared group key
known to all members, there is no cryptographic proof ofwhich group member sent a particular
5To send a single ART message,every recipient receives and processes a copy of a logarithmic quantity of
data, while over pairwise channels they receive only one constant-sized message.
22

101 102 103
Number of group participants
102
103
104
105
Number of bytes sent
our AR T implementation
pairwise DH ratcheting
(a) Outgoing bytes needed to send a 32-byte message.
101 102 103
Number of group participants
100
101
102
103
Initiator setup time in ms
our AR T implementation
pairwise DH ratcheting
(b) Total wall-clock setup time to create a group.
Figure 7: Graphs showing metrics from our ART implementation, compared against pairwise DH
ratcheting and averaged over four runs. We conjecture that the variance is due to the Java JIT compiler.
23

message. Various works have discussed such proofs; the most common design is to assign to each
group member a signature key with which they sign all their messages. We remark that it is
easy to extend our design with such a system; in particular, by rotating and chaining signature
keys, we conjecture that it is possible to achieve this authentication post-compromise.
Dynamic groups We refer the reader to e.g. [28] for a summary of previous work on dynamic
groups. In general, since we build on tree-based ideas, our design can support join and leave
operations using standard techniques.
We remark in particular that these operations can be doneasynchronously using a design
similar to the setup keys in Section 5.1. Speciﬁcally, Alice can add Ted as a sibling to her own
node in the tree by performing an operation similar to the initial tree setup, generating an
ephemeral key and performing a key update which replaces Alice’s leaf with an intermediate
node whose children are Alice and Ted. With the cooperation of other users in the tree, Alice
can add Tedanywhere, allowing her to keep the tree balanced.
Multiple Devices One important motivation for supporting group messaging is to enable
users to communicate using more than one of their own devices. By treating each device as a
separate group member, our design of course supports this use case. However, the tree structure
can be optimised for this particular scenario: all of Alice’s devices can be stored in a single
subtree, so that the “leaves” of the group tree are themselves roots of device-speciﬁc trees. Using
“subtrees” in this way allows a user to publish the public key of their subtree as an ephemeral
prekey, enabling all their devices to be added to new groups as a single unit. Moreover, users do
not need to reveal which device in a subtree triggers an update, thus improving their privacy
guarantees.
Chain keys Signal introduced the concept ofchain keys to support out-of-order message
receipt and a ﬁne-grained form of forward secrecy. Instead of using a shared secret to encrypt
messages directly, Signal derives a new encryption key for each message from a hash chain. The
shared secret derived by our GKE can be directly used in the same way, for the same beneﬁts.
9 Conclusion
In this paper, we combined techniques from synchronous group messaging with strong modern
security guarantees from asynchronous messaging. Our resulting Asynchronous Ratcheting
Trees (ART) design combines the bandwidth beneﬁts of group messaging with the strong
security guarantees of modern point-to-point protocols. Our design is the ﬁrst to show that
post-compromise security is eﬃciently achievable for group messaging as well as pairwise. This
paves the way for modern messaging applications to oﬀer the same type of security for groups
that they are currently only oﬀering for two-party communications.
ART has seen widespread interest from industry, and forms the basis of two draft RFCs as
well as the IETF’s MLS working group which has adopted it as a starting point. We hope that
it will lead to designs for secure messaging systems which can improve the guarantees provided
to users everywhere.
24

Our construction is of independent interest, since it provides a blueprint for generically
applying insights from synchronous group messaging in the asynchronous setting. We expect
this to lead to many more alternative designs in future works.
Acknowledgements The authors would like to thank Richard Barnes for pointing out an
error in a previous version of the algorithm, and MLS’s many contributors for helpful discussions
and insights.
References
[1] Michel Abdalla, Céline Chevalier, Mark Manulis, and David Pointcheval. 2010. Flexible group key exchange
with on-demand computation of subgroup keys. InAFRICACRYPT 10(LNCS). Daniel J. Bernstein and
Tanja Lange, editors. Volume 6055. Springer, Heidelberg, (May 2010), 351–368.
[2] Christoph Bader, Dennis Hofheinz, Tibor Jager, Eike Kiltz, and Yong Li. 2015. Tightly-secure authenticated
key exchange. InTCC 2015, Part I(LNCS). Yevgeniy Dodis and Jesper Buus Nielsen, editors. Volume 9014.
Springer, Heidelberg, (March 2015), 629–658.doi: 10.1007/978-3-662-46494-6_26.
[3] Daniel J. Bernstein. 2006. Curve25519: new Diﬃe-Hellman speed records. InPKC 2006 (LNCS). Moti
Yung, Yevgeniy Dodis, Aggelos Kiayias, and Tal Malkin, editors. Volume 3958. Springer, Heidelberg,
(April 2006), 207–228.doi: 10.1007/11745853_14.
[4] Dan Boneh and Alice Silverberg. 2003. Applications of multilinear forms to cryptography. InTopics
in Algebraic and Noncommutative Geometry: Proceedings in Memory of Ruth Michler. Contemporary
Mathematics. Volume 324. Caroline Grant Mellesand Jean-Paul Brasseletand Gary Kennedyand Kristin
Lauter and Lee McEwan, editors. American Mathematical Society.
[5] Dan Boneh and Mark Zhandry. 2014. Multiparty key exchange, eﬃcient traitor tracing, and more from
indistinguishability obfuscation. InCRYPTO 2014, Part I(LNCS). Juan A. Garay and Rosario Gennaro,
editors. Volume 8616. Springer, Heidelberg, (August 2014), 480–499.doi: 10.1007/978-3-662-44371-
2_27.
[6] Nikita Borisov, Ian Goldberg, and Eric Brewer. 2004. Oﬀ-the-record communication, or, why not to use
pgp. InProceedings of the 2004 ACM Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic Society(WPES ’04). ACM.
doi: 10.1145/1029179.1029200.
[7] Timo Brecher, Emmanuel Bresson, and Mark Manulis. 2009. Fully robust tree-Diﬃe-Hellman group key
exchange. InCANS 09 (LNCS). Juan A. Garay, Atsuko Miyaji, and Akira Otsuka, editors. Volume 5888.
Springer, Heidelberg, (December 2009), 478–497.
[8] Jacqueline Brendel, Marc Fischlin, Felix Günther, and Christian Janson. 2017. Prf-odh: relations, instan-
tiations, and impossibility results. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2017/517.http://eprint.iacr.
org/2017/517. (2017).
[9] Emmanuel Bresson, Olivier Chevassut, David Pointcheval, and Jean-Jacques Quisquater. 2001. Provably
authenticated group Diﬃe-Hellman key exchange. InACM CCS 2001. Michael K. Reiter and Pierangela
Samarati, editors. ACM Press, (November 2001), 255–264.doi: 10.1145/501983.502018.
[10] Christina Brzuska, Marc Fischlin, Bogdan Warinschi, and Stephen C. Williams. 2011. Composability of
Bellare-Rogaway key exchange protocols. InACM CCS 2011. Yan Chen, George Danezis, and Vitaly
Shmatikov, editors. ACM Press, (October 2011), 51–62.doi: 10.1145/2046707.2046716.
[11] Christian Cachin and Reto Strobl. 2004. Asynchronous group key exchange with failures. InProceedings
of the Twenty-third Annual ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing(PODC ’04). ACM,
357–366.doi: 10.1145/1011767.1011820.
[12] Yi-Ruei Chen and Wen-Guey Tzeng. 2017. Group key management with eﬃcient rekey mechanism: a
semi-stateful approach for out-of-synchronized members.Computer Communications, 98. doi: 10.1016/j.
comcom.2016.08.001.
25

[13] Katriel Cohn-Gordon, Cas Cremers, Benjamin Dowling, Luke Garratt, and Douglas Stebila. 2016. A
formal security analysis of the signal messaging protocol. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2016/1013.
http://eprint.iacr.org/2016/1013. (2016).
[14] Katriel Cohn-Gordon, Cas Cremers, and Luke Garratt. 2016. On post-compromise security. InComputer
Security Foundations Symposium (CSF), 2016 IEEE 29th. IEEE, 164–178.
[15] Katriel Cohn-Gordon, Cas Cremers, Luke Garratt, Jon Millican, and Kevin Milner. 2018. On Ends-to-Ends
Encryption: Asynchronous Group Messaging with Strong Security Guarantees. InProceedings of the 2018
ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2018, Toronto, ON, Canada,
October 15-19, 2018. ACM, 1802–1819.
[16] Cas J. F. Cremers and Michele Feltz. 2012. Beyond eCK: perfect forward secrecy under actor compromise
and ephemeral-key reveal. InESORICS 2012 (LNCS). Sara Foresti, Moti Yung, and Fabio Martinelli,
editors. Volume 7459. Springer, Heidelberg, (September 2012), 734–751.doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-33167-
1_42.
[17] Ivan Damgård. 2007. A “proof-reading” of some issues in cryptography (invited lecture). InICALP 2007
(LNCS). Lars Arge, Christian Cachin, Tomasz Jurdzinski, and Andrzej Tarlecki, editors. Volume 4596.
Springer, Heidelberg, (July 2007), 2–11.doi: 10.1007/978-3-540-73420-8_2.
[18] Yvo Desmedt, Tanja Lange, and Mike Burmester. 2007. Scalable authenticated tree based group key
exchange for ad-hoc groups. InFC 2007(LNCS). Sven Dietrich and Rachna Dhamija, editors. Volume 4886.
Springer, Heidelberg, (February 2007), 104–118.
[19] eQualit.ie. 2016. (N+1)sec. (2016). https://learn.equalit.ie/wiki/Np1sec.
[20] Facebook. 2017. Messenger Secret Conversations (Technical Whitepaper Version 2.0). Technical report.
Retrieved 05/2017 fromhttps://fbnewsroomus.files.wordpress.com/2016/07/messenger-secret-
conversations-technical-whitepaper.pdf.
[21] Michael Farb, Yue-Hsun Lin, Tiﬀany Hyun-Jin Kim, Jonathan McCune, and Adrian Perrig. 2013. Safes-
linger: easy-to-use and secure public-key exchange. InProceedings of the 19th Annual International
Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking(MobiCom ’13). ACM, 417–428.doi: 10.1145/2500423.
2500428.
[22] Marc Fischlin and Felix Günther. 2014. Multi-stage key exchange and the case of Google’s QUIC protocol.
In Proceedings of the 2014 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security. ACM,
1193–1204.
[23] Ian Goldberg, Berkant Ustaoglu, Matthew Van Gundy, and Hao Chen. 2009. Multi-party oﬀ-the-record
messaging. InACM CCS 2009. Ehab Al-Shaer, Somesh Jha, and Angelos D. Keromytis, editors. ACM
Press, (November 2009), 358–368.doi: 10.1145/1653662.1653705.
[24] Oded Goldreich. 1997. On the foundations of modern cryptography (invited lecture). InCRYPTO’97
(LNCS). Burton S. Kaliski Jr., editor. Volume 1294. Springer, Heidelberg, (August 1997), 46–74.doi:
10.1007/BFb0052227.
[25] Matthew D. Green and Ian Miers. 2015. Forward secure asynchronous messaging from puncturable
encryption. In 2015 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. IEEE Computer Society Press, (May
2015), 305–320.doi: 10.1109/SP.2015.26.
[26] internet.org. 2016. State of connectivity 2015. Annual Report. (2016). Retrieved 05/2017 fromhttps:
/ / fbnewsroomus . files . wordpress . com / 2016 / 02 / state - of - connectivity - 2015 - 2016 - 02 - 21 -
final.pdf.
[27] Antoine Joux. 2004. A one round protocol for tripartite Diﬃe-Hellman.Journal of Cryptology, 17, 4,
(September 2004), 263–276.doi: 10.1007/s00145-004-0312-y.
[28] 2001. Communication-eﬃcient group key agreement. Trusted Information: The New Decade Challenge.
Springer US. doi: 10.1007/0-306-46998-7_16.
[29] Yongdae Kim, Adrian Perrig, and Gene Tsudik. 2001. Communication-eﬃcient group key agreement. In
International Federation for Information Processing (IFIP SEC). Paris, France, (June 2001).
26

[30] Yongdae Kim, Adrian Perrig, and Gene Tsudik. 2000. Simple and fault-tolerant key agreement for dynamic
collaborative groups. In Proceedings of the 7th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications
Security (CCS ’00). ACM.doi: 10.1145/352600.352638.
[31] Yongdae Kim, Adrian Perrig, and Gene Tsudik. 2000. Simple and fault-tolerant key agreement for dynamic
collaborative groups. InProceedings of ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security
(CCS), 235–244.
[32] Yongdae Kim, Adrian Perrig, and Gene Tsudik. 2004. Tree-based group key agreement.ACM Trans. Inf.
Syst. Secur., (February 2004).doi: 10.1145/984334.984337.
[33] N. Kobeissi, K. Bhargavan, and B. Blanchet. 2017. Automated veriﬁcation for secure messaging protocols
and their implementations: a symbolic and computational approach. InIEEE European Symposium on
Security and Privacy (EuroS&P).
[34] Brian A. LaMacchia, Kristin Lauter, and Anton Mityagin. 2007. Stronger security of authenticated key
exchange. In ProvSec 2007 (LNCS). Willy Susilo, Joseph K. Liu, and Yi Mu, editors. Volume 4784.
Springer, Heidelberg, (November 2007), 1–16.
[35] Sangwon Lee, Yongdae Kim, Kwangjo Kim, and Dae-Hyun Ryu. 2003. An eﬃcient tree-based group key
agreement using bilinear map. InACNS 03 (LNCS). Jianying Zhou, Moti Yung, and Yongfei Han, editors.
Volume 2846. Springer, Heidelberg, (October 2003), 357–371.doi: 10.1007/978-3-540-45203-4_28.
[36] Fermi Ma and Mark Zhandry. 2017. Encryptor combiners: a uniﬁed approach to multiparty nike, (h)ibe, and
broadcast encryption. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2017/152.http://eprint.iacr.org/2017/152.
(2017).
[37] Moxie Marlinspike. 2013. Forward secrecy for asynchronous messages. Blog. (August 22, 2013). Retrieved
05/2017 from https://whispersystems.org/blog/asynchronous-security/.
[38] Moxie Marlinspike. 2016. Signal protocol documentation. (2016). Retrieved 05/2017 fromhttps : / /
whispersystems.org/docs/.
[39] Moxie Marlinspike. 2016. The x3dh key agreement protocol. Trevor Perrin, editor. (November 2016).
Retrieved 11/2017 fromhttps://signal.org/docs/specifications/x3dh/x3dh.pdf.
[40] Ghita Mezzour, Ahren Studer, Michael Farb, Jason Lee, Jonathan McCune, Hsu-Chun Hsiao, and Adrian
Perrig. 2010. Ho-Po Key: Leveraging Physical Constraints on Human Motion to Authentically Exchange
Information in a Group. Technical report. Carnegie Mellon University, (December 2010).
[41] Jon Millican. 2018. ART prototype implementation. (2018).https://github.com/facebookresearch/
asynchronousratchetingtree.
[42] MLS Working Group Chairs. 2018. Messaging layer security working group.https://mlswg.github.io.
[43] OpenWhisperSystems.2014.Libsignal-service-java.(2014). https://github.com/signalapp/libsignal-
service - java / blob / c8d7c3c00445a81b81e0a7305151cda4534ba299 / java / src / main / java / org /
whispersystems/signalservice/api/SignalServiceMessageSender.java#L497.
[44] Adrian Perrig. 1999. Eﬃcient collaborative key management protocols for secure autonomous group
communication. InProceedings of International Workshop on Cryptographic Techniques and E-Commerce
(CrypTEC). (July 1999), 192–202.
[45] Adrian Perrig, Dawn Song, and Doug Tygar. 2001. ELK, a new protocol for eﬃcient large-group key
distribution. InProceedings of IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. (May 2001).
[46] Paul Rösler, Christian Mainka, and Jörg Schwenk. 2018. More is less: on the end-to-end security of group
chats in signal, whatsapp, and threema. In2018 IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy,
EuroS&P 2018, 415–429.doi: 10.1109/EuroSP.2018.00036.
[47] Benedikt Schmidt, Simon Meier, Cas Cremers, and David A. Basin. 2012. Automated analysis of diﬃe-
hellman protocols and advanced security properties. In 25th IEEE Computer Security Foundations
Symposium, CSF 2012, Cambridge, MA, USA, June 25-27, 2012, 78–94.doi: 10.1109/CSF.2012.25.
[48] Victor Shoup. 2004. Sequences of games: a tool for taming complexity in security proofs.IACR Cryptology
EPrint Archive, 2004, 332.
27

[49] Dmitry Skiba. 2008. Trevorbernard/curve25519-java. GitHub repository. (February 23, 2008). Retrieved
05/2017 from https://github.com/trevorbernard/curve25519-java.
[50] Mark Slee, Aditya Agarwal, and Marc Kwiatkowski. 2007. Thrift: Scalable Cross-Language Services
Implementation. Technical report. Retrieved 11/2017 fromhttps://thrift.apache.org/static/files/
thrift-20070401.pdf.
[51] 1990. A secure audio teleconference system. Advances in Cryptology — CRYPTO’ 88: Proceedings. Springer
New York.doi: 10.1007/0-387-34799-2_37.
[52] Michael Steiner, Gene Tsudik, and Michael Waidner. 2000. Key agreement in dynamic peer groups.IEEE
Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, 11, 8, (August 2000), 769–780.
[53] The Guardian. 2017. Contact the guardian securely. (2017). Retrieved 06/2017 fromhttps://gu.com/tip-
us-off.
[54] D. Wallner, E. Harder, and R. Agee. 1999. Key management for multicast: issues and architectures. RFC.
United States, (1999).
[55] WhatsApp. 2016. WhatsApp Encryption Overview. Technical report. Retrieved 07/2016 fromhttps:
//www.whatsapp.com/security/WhatsApp-Security-Whitepaper.pdf.
[56] Chung Kei Wong, Mohamed Gouda, and Simon S. Lam. 2000. Secure group communications using key
graphs. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, 8, 1, (February 2000), 16–30.
[57] Zheng Yang, Chao Liu, Wanping Liu, Daigu Zhang, and Song Luo. 2017. A new strong security model
for stateful authenticated group key exchange.International Journal of Information Security, 1–18.doi:
10.1007/s10207-017-0373-1.
A Pseudocode Protocol Deﬁnitions
We include in Figure 8 precise pseudocode for the ART algorithms, including both “real”
state π corresponding to data which might be kept in the memory of an implementation, and
bookkeeping stateσ which is used in the deﬁnition of the security game.
B Queries in the Computational Model
We give formal deﬁnitions of the adversary queries used in our computational model in Table 2.
C Computational Security Proof
Remark 4 (Conditions onι). The property we need ofι is similar to the DDH assumption:
given randomly sampledgx andgy, it should be computationally hard to distinguishι(gxy) from
ι(gzy) where gz is uniformly random. This is aPRF-ODH assumption without an oracle [8].
This property is commonly satisﬁed. For example, if we assume thatι() is a random oracle or
even the identity function, then this property holds under the DDH assumption.
Remark 5. Instead of encoding authentication as a restriction on the sessions against which it is
valid to issue aRevSessKey query, we have separated it out into another security experiment:
the indistinguishability experiment simply prohibits anyRevSessKey query which would reveal
the key of theTested session, and the new experiment shows that only sessions which “should”
derive the same key as theTested session in fact do.
We call the new experiment the partnering experiment, and its deﬁnition follows.
28

Algorithm 1Asynchronous group setup
/one.oldstyle:procedure S/e.sc/t.sc/u.sc/p.scG/r.sc/o.sc/u.sc/p.sc((IKi, EKi)n−1
i=1 )
/two.oldstyle:// set up a group withn−1 identity and ephemeral keys of peers
/three.oldstyle:π.λ =λ0
$
:= DHKeyGen()
/four.oldstyle:suk
$
:= KeyExchangeKeyGen()
/five.oldstyle:fori := 1...n − 1 do // generate leaf keys for each agent
/six.oldstyle:λi :=ι
(
K/e.sc/y.scE/x.sc/c.sc/h.sc/a.sc/n.sc/g.sc/e.sc(π.ik, IKi, suk, EKi)
)
/seven.oldstyle: add(λi, sid(π,σ )) toσ.HonestKeys
/eight.taboldstyle:Tsecret := C/r.sc/e.sc/a.sc/t.sc/e.scT/r.sc/e.sc/e.sc(λ0,λ 1,...,λ npeers)
/nine.oldstyle:π.T := P/u.sc/b.sc/l.sc/i.sc/c.scK/e.sc/y.sc/s.sc(Tsecret)
/one.oldstyle/zero.oldstyle:π.IDs :=gπ.ik‖IK 1‖... ‖IKnpeers
/one.oldstyle/one.oldstyle:π.EKs :=gπ.ek‖EK 1‖... ‖EKnpeers
/one.oldstyle/two.oldstyle:x :=π.IDs,π. EKs, SUK,π.T
/one.oldstyle/three.oldstyle:m := (x, S/i.sc/g.sc/n.sc(x;π.ik))
/one.oldstyle/four.oldstyle:π.tk := (Tsecret)0,0
/one.oldstyle/five.oldstyle:π.idx := 0
/one.oldstyle/six.oldstyle:σ.𝓁[π.idx] := 1
/one.oldstyle/seven.oldstyle:σ.𝓁[x] := 0 for 0<x ≤n
/one.oldstyle/eight.taboldstyle:π. ¯P := C/o.sc/p.sc/a.sc/t.sc/h.sc(T, 0)
/one.oldstyle/nine.oldstyle:π.sk = 0
/two.oldstyle/zero.oldstyle:D/e.sc/r.sc/i.sc/v.sc/e.scS/t.sc/a.sc/g.sc/e.scK/e.sc/y.sc()
/two.oldstyle/one.oldstyle:returnm
Algorithm 2Helper functions
/one.oldstyle:function L/e.sc/f.sc/t.scS/u.sc/b.sc/t.sc/r.sc/e.sc/e.scS/i.sc/z.sc/e.sc(x)
/two.oldstyle:// height of the left subtree if there are x elements
/three.oldstyle:return 2⌈log2(x)⌉−1
/four.oldstyle:function C/r.sc/e.sc/a.sc/t.sc/e.scT/r.sc/e.sc/e.sc(λ0,λ 1,...,λ n) // tree with n
leaves
/five.oldstyle:ifn = 0 then return (leaf,λ 0)
/six.oldstyle:h := L/e.sc/f.sc/t.scS/u.sc/b.sc/t.sc/r.sc/e.sc/e.scS/i.sc/z.sc/e.sc(n)
/seven.oldstyle:(L,lk ) := C/r.sc/e.sc/a.sc/t.sc/e.scT/r.sc/e.sc/e.sc(λ0,...,λ (h−1)) // complete
left subtree
/eight.taboldstyle:(R,rk ) := C/r.sc/e.sc/a.sc/t.sc/e.scT/r.sc/e.sc/e.sc(λh,...,λ n−1) // right sub-
tree
/nine.oldstyle:k :=ι
(
g(lk)(rk))
/one.oldstyle/zero.oldstyle:return (node((L,lk ), (R,rk )),k )
/one.oldstyle/one.oldstyle:function P/u.sc/b.sc/l.sc/i.sc/c.scK/e.sc/y.sc/s.sc(T := node(L,R ),k )
/one.oldstyle/two.oldstyle:ifT =∅ then return∅
return node(P/u.sc/b.sc/l.sc/i.sc/c.scK/e.sc/y.sc/s.sc(L), P/u.sc/b.sc/l.sc/i.sc/c.scK/e.sc/y.sc/s.sc(R)),gk
/one.oldstyle/three.oldstyle:function C/o.sc/p.sc/a.sc/t.sc/h.sc(T,i ) // wherei is the index of the leaf and
|T| = #leaves
/one.oldstyle/four.oldstyle:if i <L/e.sc/f.sc/t.scS/u.sc/b.sc/t.sc/r.sc/e.sc/e.scS/i.sc/z.sc/e.sc(|T|) then // i is in the com-
plete left subtree
/one.oldstyle/five.oldstyle:returngT1,1‖C/o.sc/p.sc/a.sc/t.sc/h.sc(T1,0,i )
/one.oldstyle/six.oldstyle:else// i is in the possibly incomplete right subtree
/one.oldstyle/seven.oldstyle:returngT1,0‖ C/o.sc/p.sc/a.sc/t.sc/h.sc(T1,1,i− 2l)
/one.oldstyle/eight.taboldstyle:function P/a.sc/t.sc/h.scN/o.sc/d.sc/e.scK/e.sc/y.sc/s.sc(λ, ¯P ) // leaf key and the copath
of public keys
/one.oldstyle/nine.oldstyle:nks| ¯P| :=λ
/two.oldstyle/zero.oldstyle:forj := (| ¯P|− 1)... 1 do
/two.oldstyle/one.oldstyle:nksj :=ι
(
( ¯Pj)nks j+1
)
/two.oldstyle/two.oldstyle:return ( ¯P0)nks1‖nks1‖... ‖nks| ¯P|
/two.oldstyle/three.oldstyle:function D/e.sc/r.sc/i.sc/v.sc/e.scS/t.sc/a.sc/g.sc/e.scK/e.sc/y.sc
/two.oldstyle/four.oldstyle:π.sk := KDF(π.sk,π. tk,π. IDs,π.T )
/two.oldstyle/five.oldstyle:return
Algorithm 3 Receiving a setup message as
agent at indexi
/one.oldstyle:procedure P/r.sc/o.sc/c.sc/e.sc/s.sc/s.scS/e.sc/t.sc/u.sc/p.scM/e.sc/s.sc/s.sc/a.sc/g.sc/e.sc(m)
/two.oldstyle:(x,s ) :=m
/three.oldstyle:assert S/i.sc/g.scV/e.sc/r.sc/i.sc/f.sc/y.sc(x,s, (x.IDs)0)
/four.oldstyle:(π.IDs,π.T ) := (x.IDs,x.T ) // store agent ids and co-
path in state
/five.oldstyle:ek := ephemeral prekey corresponding to EK
fromπ
/six.oldstyle:π.λ :=ι
(
K/e.sc/y.scE/x.sc/c.sc/h.sc/a.sc/n.sc/g.sc/e.sc(π.ik, (π.IDs)0, ek,x. SUK )
)
/seven.oldstyle:nks := P/a.sc/t.sc/h.scN/o.sc/d.sc/e.scK/e.sc/y.sc/s.sc(π.λ,π. ¯P )
/eight.taboldstyle:π.tk := nks0 // store initial tree key
/nine.oldstyle:π.idx =i
/one.oldstyle/zero.oldstyle:σ.𝓁[0] := 1
/one.oldstyle/one.oldstyle:σ.𝓁[x] := 0 for 0<x ≤n
/one.oldstyle/two.oldstyle:π.sk = 0
/one.oldstyle/three.oldstyle:D/e.sc/r.sc/i.sc/v.sc/e.scS/t.sc/a.sc/g.sc/e.scK/e.sc/y.sc()
/one.oldstyle/four.oldstyle:return
Algorithm 4Agent updating their key
/one.oldstyle:procedure U/p.sc/d.sc/a.sc/t.sc/e.scK/e.sc/y.sc
/two.oldstyle:π.λ
$
:= DHKeyGen()
/three.oldstyle:σ.𝓁[π.idx] :=σ.𝓁[π.idx] + 1
/four.oldstyle: add(π.λ, sid(π,σ )) toσ.HonestKeys
/five.oldstyle:nks := P/a.sc/t.sc/h.scN/o.sc/d.sc/e.scK/e.sc/y.sc/s.sc(λ,π. ¯P )
/six.oldstyle:x :=π.idx‖gnks1‖... ‖gnks | ¯P |
/seven.oldstyle:π.tk := nks0
/eight.taboldstyle:m := (x, MAC(x; KDF(′mac′,π. sk)))
/nine.oldstyle:σ.t :=σ.t + 1
/one.oldstyle/zero.oldstyle:D/e.sc/r.sc/i.sc/v.sc/e.scS/t.sc/a.sc/g.sc/e.scK/e.sc/y.sc()
/one.oldstyle/one.oldstyle:returnm
Algorithm 5Processing another agent’s key
update
/one.oldstyle:procedure P/r.sc/o.sc/c.sc/e.sc/s.sc/s.scU/p.sc/d.sc/a.sc/t.sc/e.scM/e.sc/s.sc/s.sc/a.sc/g.sc/e.sc(m)
/two.oldstyle:(x,µ ) :=m
/three.oldstyle:assert MACV/e.sc/r.sc/i.sc/f.sc/y.sc(x,µ, KDF(′mac′,π. sk))
/four.oldstyle:j, nks :=x
/five.oldstyle:ν := I/n.sc/d.sc/e.sc/x.scT/o.scU/p.sc/d.sc/a.sc/t.sc/e.sc(⌈log2n⌉, 0,π. idx,j )
/six.oldstyle:π. ¯Pν :=Uν // indexν of the copath has been updated in this
message
/seven.oldstyle:nks := P/a.sc/t.sc/h.scN/o.sc/d.sc/e.scK/e.sc/y.sc/s.sc(π.λ,π. ¯P )
/eight.taboldstyle:π.tk := nks0
/nine.oldstyle:σ.𝓁[j] :=σ.𝓁[j] + 1
/one.oldstyle/zero.oldstyle:σ.t :=σ.t + 1
/one.oldstyle/one.oldstyle:D/e.sc/r.sc/i.sc/v.sc/e.scS/t.sc/a.sc/g.sc/e.scK/e.sc/y.sc()
/one.oldstyle/two.oldstyle:return
/one.oldstyle/three.oldstyle:function I/n.sc/d.sc/e.sc/x.scT/o.scU/p.sc/d.sc/a.sc/t.sc/e.sc(h,n,i,j )
/one.oldstyle/four.oldstyle:if (i< 2h−1)∧ (j <2h−1) then // both are in the left
subtree
/one.oldstyle/five.oldstyle:return I/n.sc/d.sc/e.sc/x.scT/o.scU/p.sc/d.sc/a.sc/t.sc/e.sc(h− 1,n + 1,i,j )
/one.oldstyle/six.oldstyle:else if (i≥ 2h−1)∧ (j≥ 2h−1) then // both in the
right subtree
/one.oldstyle/seven.oldstyle:return I/n.sc/d.sc/e.sc/x.scT/o.scU/p.sc/d.sc/a.sc/t.sc/e.sc(h− 1,n + 1,i −
2h−1,j− 2h−1)
/one.oldstyle/eight.taboldstyle:returnn // otherwise return index where they diﬀer
Figure 8: Pseudocode descriptions of the algorithms in our ART design. Informal explanations can
be found in Section 5. Procedure denotes subroutines which are used by the protocol algorithms
PSend/PRecv and function denotes ones which are not. Procedures operate on and mutate the
agent’s current stateπ and σ, receive an optional input message from the adversary, and return an
optional output message to it. When sending a tuple, we implicitly uniquely encode it as a bitstring (to
avoid type confusion errors), and when receiving one we uniquely decode it.KeyExchange derives
a shared key from secret/public identity/ephemeral keys, i.e.KeyExchange(ikA, IKB, ekA, EKb) =
KeyExchange(IKA, ikB, EKA, ekB). 29

Table 2: Adversary queries deﬁned in our model. We useu to denote the agent targeted by a query,i
to denote the index of a session at an agent, andt to denote the stage of a session—thus, for example,
(Alice, 3, 4) identiﬁes the fourth stage of Alice’s third session. We usem for messages andb,b′ for bits.
Create(u,v 1,v 2,...v n−1) Given a set of intended peersv1,...,v n−1 (n≤γ), the challenger exe-
cutes Activate to prepare a new stateπ, prepares a new bookkeeping
state σ with σ.i set to the number of timesCreate(u,... ) has already
been called, and initialises a new role oracle with statesπ and σ for
agentu.
ASend(u,i,m ) Given a messagem and a session(u,i ) with stateπ, executeπ′ :=
PRecv(π,m ) and set the session state toπ′. u must be a valid agent
identiﬁer andCreate(u,... ) must have been called at leasti− 1 times.
This query models sending a message to a session.
ARecv(u,i,d ) Given a session (u,i ) with state π, execute π′,m := PSend(π,d ),
update the session state toπ′ and return the messagem. This query
models a role oracle performing of the protocol’s actions.
RevSessKey(u,i,t ) Given (u,i,t ), returnπ.sk where π is the stage withsid(π) = (u,i,t )
if it exists. This query models keys being leaked to the adversary and
is used to capture authentication properties.
RevRandom(u,i,t ) Given (u,i,t ), reveal the random coins byu in staget of session(u,i ).
This query models the corruption of an agent, either in their initial
key generation (att = 0) or afterwards (t> 0).
Test(u,i,t ) Given (u,i,t ), letk0 denote the key computed by useru at staget of
session (u,i ), and letk1 denote a uniformly randomly sampled key
from the challenger. The challenger ﬂips a coinb
$
:= Uniform({0, 1})
and returnskb.
Guess(b′) The adversary immediately terminates its execution after this query.
Deﬁnition 9(Partnering experiment). We deﬁne the partnering experiment as follows. At
the start of the game, the challenger initialises all parties as in the security experiment. The
adversary then asks a series ofCreate, ASend or ARecv queries, and eventually terminates. There
is no additional model state and no other queries are permitted.
When the game ends, the adversary wins if and only if for any session (u,i,t ) with
(u,i,t ).σ.status = accept, any of the following hold.
(i) disagreement on group members: there exists another stage(v,j,s ) deriving the same key
as (u,i,t ) but with (u,i,t ).IDs⁄= (v,j,s ).IDs
(ii) incorrect peer: there exists a stage(v,j,s ) deriving the same key as(u,i,t ) with v⁄=u
and v /∈ (u,i,t ).IDs
(iii) repeated session key: there exists another session(u,i′,t′), i′⁄=i, deriving the same key
as (u,i,t )
(iv) too many copies of a peer: for any peer identityv appearing n> 0 times in (u,i,t ).IDs,
v⁄=u, there existn + 1 stages (v,·,·) deriving the same key as(u,i,t )
Theorem 2.In ART, when the KDF is modelled as a random oracle, the probability that any
PPT adversary wins the partnering game is negligible in the security parameter.
Proof sketch. The result follows directly from the fact thatπ.IDs is an argument to the KDF
when deriving stage keys. If the KDF is a random oracle its output values do not collide, and
30

thus equal output values imply equal input values, which is enough to rule out the cases in the
partnering security experiment.
Suppose there exists an adversaryA which wins the partnering security game. By deﬁnition,
it wins if one of the four cases occurs and we consider each one in turn.
First, suppose that it wins because there exist two stages(u,i,t ) and (v,j,s ) deriving
the same key but with (u,i,t ).IDs ⁄= (v,j,s ).IDs. The stage key is derived as π.sk :=
KDF(π.sk,π. tk,π.IDs,π.T ). In particular, equality of stage keys implies equality ofIDs (except
with negligible probability of collisions in the random oracle), so this case is impossible.
Second, suppose that it wins because there exists a stage(v,j,s ) deriving the same key as
(u,i,t ) but withv /∈ (u,i,t ).IDs. As in the ﬁrst case, we know that(u,i,t ).IDs = (v,j,s ).IDs,
and thusv /∈ (v,j,s ).IDs. However, this contradicts the fact that agents always believe they are
in their own groups, so this case is impossible.
Third, suppose that there exist two sessions(u,i,t ) and (u,i′,t′) deriving the same key.
Recall that each stage derives an ephemeral key, and each stage’s own ephemeral key is included
in its local key derivation. For the derived keys to be equal, therefore, the ephemeral keys
generated by both agents would have to be equal as well, which would require a DH collision.
This happens only with negligible probability (formally, we make a game hop to a game which
aborts if there is a DH collision, and bound the diﬀerence between the games; this argument
appears in the proof sketch below), and hence this case is impossible unlessi =i′.
Fourth and ﬁnally, suppose that it wins because there existn + 1 stages (v,·,·) deriving the
same key as(u,i,t ) while there are onlyn copies ofv in (u,i,t ).IDs. Since there are onlyn
copies ofv in (u,i,t ).IDs, either
(i) one of then + 1 must havev.idx not equal to an index ofv in (u,i,t ).IDs, or
(ii) two of the stages(v,·,·) must “collide”, having the samev.idx.
In the ﬁrst case, the disagreement implies that(u,i,t ).IDs⁄= (v,j,s ).IDs and hence that the
derived keys are distinct, which is a contradiction. In the second case we again use uniqueness
of ephemeral keys: the two colliding stages must have derived distinct ephemeral keys, at most
one of which is the key appearing(u,i,t ).IDs, and hence the stages must derive distinct keys.
We have ruled out all cases, and thus are done.
Theorem 1.Let nP, nS and nT denote bounds on the number of parties, sessions and stages in
the security experiment respectively. Under thePRF-ODH assumption with KDFs modeled as
random oracles, the success probability of any PPT adversary against the security experiment
for our protocol is bounded above by
1
2 +
(nPnSnT
2
)
q +γ(nPnSnT
2)γ (ϵPRF-ODH + 1/q) + negl(λ)
whereϵPRF-ODH bounds the advantage of a PPT adversary against thePRF-ODH game. (This
bound depends only onϵPRF-ODH and not KeyExchange because it is unauthenticated.)
Proof. Security in this sense means that no eﬃcient adversary can break the key indistinguisha-
bility game against the protocol. Suppose for contradiction thatA is such an adversary. By
the deﬁnition of the security experiment, it can only win if it issues aTest(u,i,t ) query against
some staget of a sessioni at agentu such that(u,i,t ) is fresh, and subsequently issues a correct
Guess(b) query with non-negligible advantage above1/2.
By the deﬁnition of freshness,(u,i,t ) is fresh (Deﬁnition 7) precisely when
31

(i) it has statusaccept,
(ii) the adversary has not issued aRevSessKey(u,i,t ) query,
(iii) there does not exist(v,j,s ) such that the adversary has issued a queryRevSessKey(v,j,s )
whose return value issk, and
(iv) one of the following criteria holds:
(a) t> 0 and session (u,i,t − 1) is fresh, or
(b) the current copath is fresh.
The proof is a case distinction based on adversarial behaviour. We will also construct a
sequence of related games as per the game hopping proof technique [48]. Let Game0 denote the
game from the original security experiment. LetAdvi denote the maximum over all adversaries
A of the advantage ofA in gamei. Our goal is to boundAdv0, the advantage of any adversary
against the security experiment.
Recall that due to technical limitations of key indistinguishability models we are unable
to faithfully model the explicit MACs which ART uses in group creation and key update
messages. Instead, for the remainder of the proof we omit them from the protocol, and specify
authentication “by ﬁat” through our freshness predicate—that is, we rule out attacks in which
the authentication of these messages is violated.
At any point in a run of the game, by construction such a tuple(u,i,t ) uniquely identiﬁes
a corresponding pair of statesπ and σ if they exist (Deﬁnition 3). To simplify our notation,
therefore, where is it more convenient we refer to session and bookkeeping states directly by
their identiﬁers, so for example by(u,i,t ).π.x we meanπ.x of (u,i,t ) and by (u,i,t ).σ.y we
mean σ.y of (u,i,t ).
Game 0. This is the original AKE security game. We see that the success probability of the
adversary is bounded above by
1/2 + Adv0
Game 1. This is the same as Game 0, except the challenger aborts and the adversary loses if
there is ever a collision of honestly generated DH keys in the game. There are a total number
of nP parties in the game. There are a maximum ofnSnT ephemeral DH keys generated per
party. There are therefore a total maximum ofnPnSnT DH keys, each pair of which must not
collide. All keys are generated in the same DH group of orderq so each of the
(nPnSnT
2
)
pairs has
probability 1/q of colliding. Therefore, we have the following bound:
Adv0≤
(nPnSnT
2
)
q + Adv1
Game 2. This is the same as Game 1, except the challenger begins by guessing (uniformly
at random, independently of other random samples) a useru′, sessioni′ and staget′. If the
adversary issues aTest(u,i,t ) query with (u,i,t )⁄= (u′,i′,t′), the challenger immediately aborts
the game and the adversary loses.
Additionally, the challenger guesses a corresponding key counter value𝓁′ and aborts if
𝓁′⁄= (u,i,t ).σ.𝓁[(u,i,t ).π.idx]. In other words, the challenger also attempts to guess the number
of sent DH keys from the Test. There are at mostnT possible sent keys.
Since the challenger’s guess is independent of the adversary’s choice ofTestsession, we derive
32

the bound
Adv1≤ nPnSnT
2 Adv2
Game 3.In this game, the challenger guesses in advance the peer sessions associated with each
leaf key in(u,i,t ).π.T (if they exist), and aborts if both of the following two conditions are met:
(i) they are not unique and (ii) the non-unique sessions have contributed their own leaf key.
Precisely, the challenger does the following: for each leafl in (u,i,t ).π.T, it guesses a
triple of indices (v′
l,j′
l,s′
l)∈ [nnP]× [nS]× [nT] and aborts if there exists a session (v,j,s )
with (v,j,s ).π.idx = l and (v,j,s ).π.T = (u,i,t ).π.T and (v,j,s ).σ.𝓁[(v,j,s ).π.idx] > 0 but
(v′
l,j′
l,s′
l)⁄= (v,j,s ). In other words, for each leafl in the tree of the Test session, the challenger
tries to guess in advance the agent, agent’s session, and stage of the session, that have the same
DH tree in session memory contents that the Test session(u,i,t ) has, and believe that their leaf
key is at leafl, where the peers are no longer using a setup key fromu, and aborts if any are
not unique. Note that it might be the case that no such(vl,jl,sl) exist, but this game ensures
that if they do exist, they are uniquely deﬁned and known in advance by the challenger.
Recall thatγ denotes the maximum group size. From(u,i,t ).π.T we can derive an ordered
list of the peers associated with each leaf at staget. Therefore, there are no more thanγ− 1
such leafs, so we will assume the worst case of makingγ− 1 guesses.
Uniqueness of the guessed tuples follows from the fact that in Game1 we ensured in advance
that honestly generated DH values are unique: the challenger guesses sessions that could possibly
have the same view of the internal tree structure as the Test session. This means (without loss
of generality) that Bob is at leaf1, Charlie at leaf2, etc. For uniqueness of the guessed sessions
with the same view of the internal tree structure as the Test not to hold, this must mean at
least two sessions with the same internal view at a particular leaf. To have the same view, they
must have the same session actor identity. Also, we only abort if(vl,jl,sl).σ.t> 0. This means
that for uniqueness not to hold, the same actor must have generated the same DH value at the
leaf l. But this cannot happen by Game1.
Additionally, for each leafl, the challenger guesses a corresponding key counter valuelc and
aborts if (u,i,t ).σ.𝓁[l]⁄=lc. In other words, the challenger also attempts to guess the number of
received DH keys from each nodel in the Test. There are at mostnT possible guesses for each
leaf.
The guesses are made uniformly randomly before the game starts. This therefore provides
the following bound:
Adv2≤ (nPnSnT
2)γ−1 Adv3
Case distinction. At this point in the proof, we do a case distinction based on adversary
behaviour. Consider the eventE deﬁned to be true when the current copath ofu at (u,i,t ).π.T
is fresh. We now perform a case distinction onE, considering ﬁrst the case (i) whereE is true,
and then the case (ii) whereE is false. Our game hopping sequence splits: we either proceed
from case (i) game 4, 5, 6..., or case (ii) game 4, 5, 6...
Case (i). We assume thatE holds. By deﬁnition of copath freshness, it therefore holds that
the copath is theith copath induced by someΛ, where eachλj∈ Λ was output by an honest
stage against which noRevRandom query was issued. Without loss of generality, we deﬁneλ1
to be the leaf key ofu in (u,i,t ).π.T.
33

Case (i), Game4.
Recall that the parent of the ﬁrst two leaf nodes,λ1 and λ2, is deﬁned asgλ1λ2. The key
derived from this is deﬁned asι(gλ1λ2). We deﬁne a new game in which, in the local stage
key computation of the actor of theTest session and stage and any match (which is unique by
the previous game),ι(gλ1λ2) is replaced withι(gz) for uniformly randomly chosen DH group
exponent z, and all subsequent computations upwards along the path of the tree useι(gz)
instead ofι(gλ1λ2).
This is a game hop based on indistinguishability [48]. In general, we consider a hybrid
game and a distinguisherD that interpolates between the two games. The distinguisherD that
distinguishes between distributionsP1 andP2, when given an element drawn from distributionP1
as input, outputs 1 with probabilityAdv3 + 1/2, and when given element drawn from distribution
P2, outputs 1 with probabilityAdv4(i).1 + 1/2. The indistinguishability assumption then implies
that the diﬀerence in negligible.
We prove that game 4 is indistinguishable from game 3 under thePRF-ODH assumption.
Precisely, we aim to show that if a distinguisherD could eﬃciently distinguish between the
games, then it could be used to break thePRF-ODH assumption. This implies that Adv4≤
Adv3 + maxDϵD, whereϵD is the probability that a PPT distinguisherD correctly distinguishes
between Games 3 and 4(i).1.
It remains to boundϵD, which we do with a reduction toPRF-ODH. Speciﬁcally, suppose
D is such a distinguisher. We construct an adversaryA(D) against the PRF-ODH game as
follows: Given PRF-ODH challengegx,gy,ι (gz) and the challenge of determining whether or not
z =xy,A(D) simulates the hybrid game as the challenger in a fully honest way except it inserts
gx =gx1,gy =gx2 and ι(gz) =ι(gx1x2).
Our constructed PRF-ODH adversary is givenι(gz), which by construction is the node key
at the parent of Alice’s and Bob’s leaf nodes. It can therefore replace this node key withι(gz)
and, using this secret, compute all public DH intermediate keys up the tree that depend on
ι(gz), including the tree key at the top of the tree. This game is a hybrid game between Game
3 and Game 4, with equal probability of either. The simulator answers all queries in the honest
way, except in the send/create queries where it needs to insert these DH values. In particular,
since this is case (i), the leaf keys are honestly sent and from game3 the challenger knows which
agent’s session and stage’s they are generated at in advance, as well as which generated DH
this will be. In other words, the challenger knows(v,j,s ) and the associated counter for how
many DH keys have been generated(v,j,t ).σ.𝓁[(v,j,t ).π.idx]. So if it correctly guesses agent
v, sessionj and stages without aborting as in Game 3, then instead of honestly answering a
ASend(v,j,t ) query when the𝓁th DH key is due to be sent in the session(v,j,s ) to the Test (or
Create query if its the initial DH key) by running the protocol to generate an ephemeral key,
the challenger instead inserts thePRF-ODH challenge value. This value is unique as there is
only one sent per query so the challenger knows where to insert it. Precisely, the challenger
does not follow the protocol to honestly generate a DH key, and instead uses the one provided
in the PRF-ODH game.
Because of the earlier game hops the simulator knows where to inject the replaced values in
the simulation, and because of the freshness predicate they are honest. Similarly, because of
the freshness predicate it never has to answer aRevRandom query against either of these two
values, and it can honestly simulate any other reveal queries. Therefore the simulation is sound.
In Game 1 we ensured no DH keys collide, and with probability1/q the PRF-ODH challenger
may provide challenge valuesgx =gy, in which case the simulator must abort. Fortunately this
34

happens with negligible probability. Thus, we have the bound:
Adv3≤ Adv4 +ϵPRF-ODH + 1/q
We will now iteratively repeat this game hop for all other fresh DH values in the tree
(u,i,t ).π.T. Because we are in case (i) and know from the previous game hops were to insert
the PRF-ODH challenge DH values, we will therefore conclude that each node key in turn is
indistinguishable from random. Repeating this process, the eventual conclusion will be that the
secret at the root of the tree is also indistinguishable from random.
Case (i), Game4+k where 1≤k≤γ. We repeat the replacement performed in the previous
game, but for the next pair of sibling nodes. Again, detecting this replacement would require
violating PRF-ODH. At this point, the tree key is no longer a function of the leaf keys—instead,
it depends on the keys at the nodes whose children are leaves, each of which has been replaced by
a random value, unknown to the adversary. We iteratively replace DH keys using thePRF-ODH
assumption, starting along the base of the tree and then working our way up until eventually all
DH keys in the tree, including the ﬁnal group key, are independent of each other. It is trivially
impossible for the adversary to do any better than guessing in the ﬁnal game. Given a group
size ofn, we never need to do more thann≤γ such game hops due to our tree structure. Thus
AdvnP≤γ (ϵPRF-ODH + 1/q) + 0
Case (ii), Game 4. We now proceed with case (ii), restarting our game hopping sequence
from Game 3. Assume now thatE does not hold, and thus the copath in the session state of
the Tested stage is not fresh. Since theTested stage must be fresh, the ﬁrst disjunct of the ﬁnal
clause of the freshness predicate must hold: thatt >0 and the stage with sid(u,i,t − 1) is
fresh.
We proceed by induction on the stage number of theTest session. Our inductive hypothesis
at stepk is that no adversary can win with non-negligible advantage if the tested session has
stage number less than or equal tok. The base casek = 0 holds by the above argument: case
(ii) cannot apply since the freshness predicate in casek = 0 requires E to occur.
Assume now that the inductive hypothesis is true for staget≤k− 1; we show that it is also
true fort =k. As before, if the adversary queriesTest(u,i,t ), then this means staget must be
fresh. LetRO be the event that the adversary queried the random oracle and received the key
of the Test stage as a reply.
If RO does not hold, then since since the adversary is not allowed to reveal the key because
of the freshness predicate, the only option is for a key replication attack. We can perform a
single game hop in which we replace the stage key with a random value. Since the random
oracle response is by construction a random value, this replacement is indistinguishable and the
resulting advantage for the adversary is zero.
Thus, we conclude thatRO must hold. Since random oracle produce collisions with only
negligible probability, it must be the case that the adversary queried the KDF on the same input
that u did on the stage key computation in the stage with sid(u,i,k ). In particular, it must
have queried the random oracle on the stage key as that is one of the inputs. This adversary
therefore has a distinguishing advantage against the previous stage, (noting that this is case (ii)
so it is fresh by deﬁnition). This contradicts our induction hypothesis.
35

Speciﬁcally, given such an adversaryA we can construct an adversaryA′ which wins with
non-negligible probability against stagek− 1. A′ simply simulatesA without changing any
values and recording all random oracle queries; the simulation is thus trivially faithful. WhenA
issues a Test(u,i,k ) query,A′ issues a Test(u,i,k − 1) query and compares the resulting key
to all ofA’s random oracle queries. If it appears in a random oracle query,A′ outputs b = 0;
otherwise, it outputsb = 1. By construction, the stage with sid(u,i,k − 1) is fresh and its stage
key is an argument to the random oracle, so the advantage ofA′ is non-negligible.
This contradicts our inductive hypothesis that no adversary can win against a stage less
than k with non-negligible probability; the result thus holds in case (ii) by induction.
D Further Measurement Details
Our prototype implementation is available from [41]. Our algorithm is implemented in the ﬁle
ART.java, with the other ﬁles primarily providing the required container and utility classes.
For our Diﬃe-Hellman group operations we use a Java implementation [49] of Curve25519
[3]. Encryption and decryption of messages uses Java’s native AES-GCM support, at 128 bits
to allow running the example without the Java runtime patch necessary for 256 bit keys. We
use HKDF with SHA256 for all key derivations.
We use the X3DH key exchange algorithm for our initial authenticated key exchanges in
both algorithms, extended to include the static-static DH key. Encryption keys for messages
(“message keys”) are taken straight from the stage keys of each implementation, instead of using
the “chain keys“ approach used in the Double Ratchet algorithm. We made this choice because
ART does not include hash ratcheting in its raw form, although we note that this could be
added to construct an ART-Double Ratchet.
We pass messages between sessions as byte arrays in memory, to allow us to measure relative
network costs without actually transmitting them over a network device. We use the Apache
Thrift [50] library and toolchain to serialise messages, to mimic as closely as possible an actual
wire format used for RPC.
E Terms and abbreviations
AKE Authenticated Key Exchange
ART Asynchronous Ratcheting Trees
DDH Decisional Diﬃe-Hellman
DH Diﬃe-Hellman
iO indistinguishability obfuscation
MAC Message Authentication Code
PCS Post-Compromise Security
PPT probabilistic polynomial-time
36

F Summary of changes
V1.0, June 5th, 2017
Initial version
V1.1, July 17th, 2017
• Fixed error pointed out by Richard Barnes
• Introduced explicit name (ART) for our design
V2.0, December 5th, 2017
Major changes:
• Reworked and improved computational model
–Adversary-security game interaction is explicit (viaPSend and PRecv queries)
–Pseudocode algorithms take adversary messages as input and return responses
–Bookkeeping stateσ now tracks implicit protocol variables
–Clariﬁed bounds in some game hops
• Redesigned Java implementation
–Implemented pairwise ratchet implementation as a comparison
–Accurate timing measurements for both including crossover point
–Graphed various metrics for a range of group sizes
• Improved related work discussion (esp. SafeSlinger) and scoping explanation
V2.1, January 18th, 2018
• Clariﬁed motivation for adding static-static DH key, and removed reference to UKS attacks
• Removed “session key” nomenclature
V2.2, May 15th, 2018
• Rewrote algorithm description and ﬁgures more operationally
• Added partnering game to security experiment
• Added reference to IETF working group
• Elaborated on usefulness and relevance of PCS
• Clariﬁed tree notation by writing both secret and public keys
• The Signal mobile app uses pairwise channels, not sender keys
V2.3, March 2nd, 2020
• Fixed typos throughout, minor improvements to writing
• Added reference to CCS 2018 version
37