Scalability limitations of Kademlia DHTs when enabling Data
Availability Sampling in Ethereum
MIKEL CORTES-GOICOECHEA∗, Barcelona Supercomputing Center, Spain
CSABA KIRALY, Status.im, Italy
DMITRIY RYAJOV, Status.im, Costa Rica
JOSE LUIS MUÑOZ-TAPIA, U. Politécnica de Catalunya, Spain
LEONARDO BAUTISTA-GOMEZ, Status.im, Spain
Scalability in blockchain remains a significant challenge, especially when prioritizing decentralization and
security. The Ethereum community has proposed comprehensive data-sharding techniques to overcome
storage, computational, and network processing limitations. In this context, the propagation and availability
of large blocks become the subject of research to achieve scalable data-sharding. This paper provides insights
after exploring the usage of a Kademlia-based DHT to enable Data Availability Sampling (DAS) in Ethereum.
It presents a DAS-DHT simulator to study this problem and validates the results of the simulator with
experiments in a real DHT network, IPFS. Our results help us understand what parts of DAS can be achieved
based on existing Kademlia DHT solutions and which ones cannot. We discuss the limitations of DHT solutions
and discuss other alternatives.
CCS Concepts: • Networks→ Routing protocols; Peer-to-peer protocols; • Information systems→
Distributed storage.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Ethereum, Blockchain Scalability, Data Availability Sampling, Kademlia
DHT, DankSharding.
ACM Reference Format:
Mikel Cortes-Goicoechea, Csaba Kiraly, Dmitriy Ryajov, Jose Luis Muñoz-Tapia, and Leonardo Bautista-Gomez.
2024. Scalability limitations of Kademlia DHTs when enabling Data Availability Sampling in Ethereum. 1, 1
(February 2024), 14 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
1 INTRODUCTION
Scalability has proven to be one of the major challenges in blockchain technology, at least when
trying to keep it decentralized and secure [48], and Ethereum [20] is not different from the rest
in that respect [5]. To tackle those scalability limitations, Ethereum plans to rely on the so-called
Layer 2 (L2) solutions [29] [38], where we can find solutions such as private payment channels [30]
or the recently popular roll-ups [42]. These latest protocols, which include mature projects such as
Polygon1, Arbitrum[24], Optimism2, or zkSync3, benefit from the speed of processing transactions
off-chain. L2 solutions optimize their operation costs by aggregating multiple transactions into
smaller ones, providing, in some cases, a set of proofs or commitments that can be used to verify
1https://polygon.technology/papers/pol-whitepaper
2https://www.optimism.io/
3https://zksync.io/
Authors’ addresses: Mikel Cortes-Goicoechea, mikel.cortes@bsc.es, Barcelona Supercomputing Center, Barcelona, Spain;
Csaba Kiraly, Status.im, Italy, csaba@status.im; Dmitriy Ryajov, Status.im, Costa Rica, dryajov@status.im; Jose Luis
Muñoz-Tapia, U. Politécnica de Catalunya, Spain, jose.luis.munoz@upc.edu; Leonardo Bautista-Gomez, Status.im, Spain,
leo@status.im.
© 2024 ACM.
ACM XXXX-XXXX/2024/2-ART
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.
arXiv:2402.09993v1  [cs.NI]  15 Feb 2024

2 Cortes et al.
the correctness of the operations. However, all of them still rely on the consensus and security of
layer 1s to ensure that the interactions are traceable and immutable.
Among the available solutions, roll-ups have been popularised over the last years for their similar
yet cheaper EVM-compatible solutions. However, these protocols generally need L1’s chain space to
store the commitments of the processed data. Ethereum researchers have proposed data-sharding,
colloquially known as “DankSharding" [13], to facilitate that needed space for roll-ups. The idea is
to offer larger, cheaper, and off-chain block space (blobs) to fill up with verifiable commitments
data4. The nature of roll-ups generally relies on fault or verifiable proofs as a mechanism to validate
transactions. This means that every time roll-up submits a bunch of transactions to the main chain,
also sharing the respective verification data as a blob, the rest of the network will have𝑋 number
of weeks to fetch and verify if something went wrong. Under this premise, transactions could be
verified as one honest verifier exists on the network during those weeks. But those proofs are not
needed in the long term [19]. Therefore, blob data can be considered ephemeral and discarded
after a certain time [35]. This protocol proposal will scale the execution payload size, as after the
execution payload of a block, the related “blobs" will also be shared on separate GossipSub [46]
message broadcasting topics. This makes the total 𝑏𝑙𝑜𝑐𝑘+𝑏𝑙𝑜𝑏𝑠𝑝𝑎𝑐𝑒 increase from the current
average of 150𝐾𝐵 5 to something in the order of 32𝑀𝐵.
The proposal relies on Erasure Coding [47] and Data Availability Sampling (DAS) [21] tech-
niques to split the blob block into segments/chunks/samples to reduce the bandwidth, storage
and computational overhead that process all blobs imply for nodes and validators. Splitting and
sharing the blob block in smaller pieces makes the propagation of blobs easier through the network,
as the validators will only have to subscribe, receive, and process a smaller portion of the larger
coming blob block. Ordinary (non-validator) nodes instead rely entirely on probabilistic sampling,
receiving only a few segments of the block to verify that the block is reconstructable using the
erasure code with very high probability. The challenge of increasing the block size from an average
of 150𝐾𝐵 to 32𝑀𝐵 is not simple. The upgrade to allocate more blobs in a cheaper ephemeral block
space has many configurations and parameters that must be adjusted to make it “feasible". Figure 1
represents the proposed Execution Layer block’s division for DAS, where the block will be first
split into 256 rows and columns and then equally extended in both directions (rows and columns)
applying Reed-Solomon Encoding [47] to ensure each row and column (and therefore the entire
block) can be reconstructed as long as half of extended row or column samples are retrievable.
Due to the synergies between the existing blob samples’ addressing needs from Ethereum’s
DAS and the content addressing capabilities of DHTs, this paper presents the results of simu-
lating a Kademlia-based DHT for Ethereum’s data-sharding case. The paper explores the time
restrictions of common DHT operations under the expected DankSharding workload. We present
a configurable DHT simulator that can reproduce the DHT operations under connection errors
and network latencies, essential to recreate not that foreseeable peer-to-peer networks accurately.
Furthermore, We raise concerns about the scalability limitations of DHTs like IPFS’s when they
suffer a high throughput of store and retrieval operations. Especially when the protocol wants to
keep the hardware resources close to commodity home hardware as Ethereum does [8] to promote
decentralisation by allowing home node operators. Considering the outcome of this research, we
propose a set of alternatives that could potentially overcome the listed limitations, ensuring low
overhead for the nodes while still providing the expected requirements for blockchain scalability.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 3 introduces in further detail what
makes Kademlia DHT a suitable candidate for Ethereum’s DAS. Section 3 discusses related work
4https://domothy.com/blobspace/
5https://etherscan.io/chart/blocksize, https://ethresear.ch/t/big-block-diffusion-and-organic-big-blocks-on-ethereum/17346
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.

Scalability limitations of Kademlia DHTs when enabling Data Availability Sampling in Ethereum 3
done on high throughput DHTs and previous DAS attempts in the ecosystem. Section 4 introduces
the methodology followed to simulate the DHT behaviour under Ethreum’s DAS proposal. In
Section 5, we introduce and analyze the results obtained by our study, comparing our simulated
results with live DHT networks and showcasing the existing limitations of DHTs under heavy
usage. Finally, Section 6 concludes the findings of this work and presents some future directions.
2 HOW DOES A DHT FIT IN ETHEREUM’S DAS APPROACH?
The challenge of increasing the block size from an average of 150𝐾𝐵 to 32𝑀𝐵 is not simple. The
upgrade to allocate more blobs in a cheaper ephemeral block space has many configurations and
parameters that must be adjusted to make it “feasible". Figure 1 represents the proposed Execution
Layer block’s division for DAS, where the block will be first split into 256 rows and columns and
then equally extended in both directions (rows and columns) applying Reed-Solomon Encoding
[47] to ensure each row and column (and therefore the entire block) can be reconstructed as long
as half of extended row or column samples are retrievable.
With the current count of over880.000 active validators6 distributed around 12.000 active Beacon
Nodes7 (at the moment of writing this paper), DAS aims to disseminate the block by entire rows
and columns through the usage of distinct GossipSub topics[46]. It has been determined that each
active validator will have to attest to a set of two random rows and columns in a single slot in an
epoch [9]. This will ensure optimal bandwidth-efficient block propagation. However, since part
of the network’s privacy relies on not knowing which node in the network hosts which validator
(preserving the anonymity of the validators), it complicates checking which sample of the blob
block is available on which node without compromising the privacy of the validators, as the topic
subscription of each node could be correlated with the identity of validators.
In this privacy-preserving case, the proposed DAS schema still needs a resilient and privacy-
preserving method able to route any blob verifier to the node that keeps it in the network, and this is
where a popular DHT such as Kademlia enter into place. The Kademlia DHT has been widely used
for content addressing by many networks such as IPFS [2], where it has proven to ensure resilience
against the constantly changing network while still providing fast content retrieval times and some
privacy-enhancing solutions like “double hashing" [41] of the stored records. With all these key
features, a Kademlia DHT is a suitable candidate to provide available samples to any interested
node, as the seeding of the DHT reduces considerably the possibility of unveiling the location of
validators. In this case, instead of seeding the DHT with the “Provider Records" (pointers to the
content provider in IPFS), because the size of each sample (as introduced in Figure 1) is relatively
small (512 bytes of data plus 48 bytes of KZG proofs [25]), we propose using a Kademlia-based DHT
to evenly distribute the samples based on the Beacon Node’s ID and the segment’s distance. This
would reduce the number of operations to retrieve each sample from two: i) ask the network who
has the content, and ii) contact and download the sample from the node, directly to the second step.
However, due to the highly demanding DAS approach of DankSharding, the limits of the Kademlia
DHT still remain unknown.
3 RELATED WORK
The overhead of scaling up the processing capabilities of modern blockchain can only be handled by
splitting the workload across the participating actors. In that context of task division, preventing data
withholding attacks and providing means to verify that the data had been released probabilistically is
what Data Availability Sampling aims to solve. However, DAS is not a new concept in the blockchain
6https://ethseer.io/?network=mainnet
7https://monitoreth.io/nodes#act-nodes
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.

4 Cortes et al.
ecosystem. Some prior works have attempted to bring DAS [39] proofs on-chain through the usage
of Oracles [3]. However, the idea relies on a third trusted blockchain to submit the data availability
proofs. Thus, the idea cannot be directly applied to a network such as Ethereum, as it is one
of the networks that generates trust for others. Other projects explored different solutions for
DAS. Celestia [4] proposed a network with the single purpose of ordering and guaranteeing data
availability [1], splitting the network into three main actors: consensus nodes, storage nodes and
light clients. Despite achieving certain scalability results, the proposal only ensures that light clients
don’t need all the storage to validate chain transactions. This heavily relies on a low and limited
number of “super nodes" that propose and download large blocks while serving all the segments to
light clients. Due to their heavy hardware requirements, the approach exposes the network to a
critical failure if storage nodes are overwhelmed by the workload.
DHTs have been part of the peer-to-peer and web3 ecosystem for a while due to their censorship
resistance capabilities, workload balancing properties, and logarithmically scaling performance.
Many projects like IPFS [2] [44], Libp2p [26] or even Ethereum [18] have relied on the Kademlia DHT
implementation [28] for content routing or peer discovery. Some works like [17] have shown that
despite needing some replication factor to overcome node churn in the network, the combination
of erasure coding techniques and DHTs can reduce the bandwidth for the retrievability of the
items. Since both techniques are robust and well-tested in the literature, one might expect that
DHTs are a suitable solution to enable DAS on Ethereum. However, whether DHTs can guarantee
the high throughput that DAS requires is uncertain. Previous attempts have been to improve the
latency and increase the throughput of DHTs. Previous work like [11] presented viable solutions
that help increase the DHTs’ throughput while providing congestion control and minimizing
the latency between nodes. However, the authors do not contemplate the extra overhead that
connecting and publishing into a larger network like the Ethereum one could have, extracting the
available throughput from simulations with under500 nodes. This paper explores whether a modern
Kademlia-based DHT can enable high-throughput native DAS techniques in a blockchain network.
It focuses on a DHT schema that would help preserve the decentralized nature of Ethereum while
preserving its resilience.
4 METHODOLOGY
Ethereum’s DAS approach presents an ideal yet ambitious synergy with DHTs. These networks
offer light and resilient logical links across participants that can resist the sometimes chaotic
dynamics of peer-to-peer networks. However, its direct application in such a demanding protocol as
DankSharding remains unknown. This section introduces the methodology we’ve used to simulate
a DHT network with most parameters involved in a peer-to-peer network and under a heavy
workload. Furthermore, we also introduce the developed framework that helped us validate the
results of the simulations on the live IPFS network.
4.1 DHT Simulator
Since the internal parameters of the possible DHT are not defined (at the moment of writing this
paper), the paper explores a possible DHT implementation for DAS through a simulator. The DAS
simulator relies on a Python module that implements all the components of a Kademlia DHT called
“py-DHT" [36]. The module allows the creation of a network of the given size, initializing the
routing table of the nodes while using the XOR binary distance between nodeIDs to fill up the
K-buckets. Inside the module, the two main components, the DHT network and the DHT nodes
(also known as DHT clients), have different purposes.
The network module offers a common shared perspective for the simulation, as shown in Figure
2. It keeps track of all nodes and simulates the communication between two nodes by introducing
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.

Scalability limitations of Kademlia DHTs when enabling Data Availability Sampling in Ethereum 5
Fig. 1. Block split proposal for DankSharding’s DAS.
Fig. 2. Description of the DHT components in the
dht simulator, and an example of the internal logic
of their interaction.
latencies and eventual losses. Because peer-to-peer networks tend to be subject to node congestion,
node churn, or even connection churn [23] [12], the network configuration allows to define the
following set of parameters that helps reproduce any network behaviour:
• Number of nodes participating in the DHT network.
• Fast error rate: ratio of connections that remote peers will refuse.
• Slow error rate: ratio of the connections that timeout when connecting a remote peer.
• Connection delay range: latencies applied to the communication between two nodes.
• Fast delay range: latencies applied when a fast error occurs.
• Slow delay range: latencies applied when a slow error occurs.
• Gamma: the incremental delay applied to the communication between nodes when a peer is
contacted by others, simulating the overhead of handling multiple connections.
On the other hand, the DHT clients are the ones that populate the simulated network. They include
all the logic of the DHT, allowing themselves to swap information if the connection through the
network interface succeeds. The simulator recreates the performance of a DHT, performing events
such as initialization of the routing table, updating the routing table, looking up the closest peers
to a key, providing a given value to the network, lookup for a specific key. The DHT clients have
the configuration of the Kademlia DHT, including the following parameters:
• K: replication factor for the DHT and k-buckets’ size.
• Alpha: maximum number of concurrent connections a DHT client can have while looking
for a key/value or the closest clients to a key.
• Beta: number of close clients a remote peer provides when looking for a key.
We refer the reader to [28] for the exact definition of these parameters. Thedht [reference removed
for double-blind review] module extracts all the timing and accuracy metrics from each individual
operation, allowing the inspection of the network’s performance under certain circumstances.
4.2 Verification of the DHT simulations
To validate the simulated results of the dht module, the paper includes a comparison with the IPFS
live network’s performance. The results were validated by comparing the performance of the most
basic operations in a DHT, such as DHT provides and DHT lookups in IPFS, with simulations
replicating the same DHT and network parameters:𝐾 = 20,𝐴𝑙𝑝ℎ𝑎 = 3, and𝐵𝑒𝑡𝑎 = 20. To obtain
those performance measurements from the IPFS network, the team developed a dedicated tool
(“looking-up-ipfs" [27]), which provides measurements of the internal operations of an IPFS’s
DHT-host interacting with the live network. The tool can concurrently generate and provide a
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.

6 Cortes et al.
Fig. 3. CDF of the DHT hops while performing 100
concurrent retrievals in the IPFS network.
Fig. 4. CDF of the time to finish 100 sets of 80 con-
current retrievals from the IPFS network.
given number of random Content Identifiers (CIDs) to the network8, dumping the duration of the
process and the contacted peers while finding the𝐾 closest peers of each content-provide operation.
Once the CIDs are published, the tool tests the retrievability of the same CIDs later, tracking the
individual duration and the total contacted nodes during each independent operation. Furthermore,
as it attempts the retrieval concurrently, it also allows us to measure the overhead of performing
multiple low-demanding operations from a single DHT host.
4.3 Development of the experiments
Each experiment presented in the following evaluation Section 5 was conducted on dedicated
hardware machines. The first part, the simulation of the DHT for Ethereum’s DAS needs [16], was
run on a PC with a Ryzen 5900X CPU, 32GB of memory, and 1TB of SSD disk. On the other hand,
the IPFS benchmarks using the “looking-up-ipfs" tools were run on an AWS cloud machine in Paris
with 4 CPU cores, 8GB of memory, and 50GB of SSD disk on the 3rd of October, 2023.
5 EV ALUATION
5.1 DHT lookups
One of the key operations in a DHT is its ability to find which node in the network has the value
for a specific key. This operation is generally known as DHT lookup , and it consists of a set of
recursive operations that, using the XOR distance between the node IDs and the given key, discover
closer and closer nodes until, eventually, a node that has the value is found (assuming some node
has it). DAS needs fast data retrievability from the DHT to ensure that blobs can be verified “fast
enough"9. For this reason, measuring DHT’s performance is critical to check if it would be a viable
option for DAS in Ethereum. A peculiarity of DAS verification is that a node is starting concurrent
lookup queries for several randomly selected samples. The DAS verification is considered complete
when every single selected sample is retrieved. This section describes the main findings observed
when simulating such concurrent queries on a DHT. We use 80 queries from a node, as finding 80
retrievable samples provides high enough probabilistic guarantees on a 512-by-512 segment 2D
encoded block [14]. We also run similar concurrent queries on the live IPFS network. This serves
8NOTE: when advertising content to the IPFS network, nodes only replicate the pointer to who has the content (Provider’s
Records) to the 𝑘 closest peers to the CID’s hash values.
9There is an ongoing debate in the Ethereum community about how fast this verification should be. It is commonly argued
that one slot time (12 seconds) is fast enough.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.

Scalability limitations of Kademlia DHTs when enabling Data Availability Sampling in Ethereum 7
Fig. 5. CDF of the simulated number of hops while looking for 200 concurrent keys with different overheads
with𝑘 = 20,𝑎𝑙𝑝ℎ𝑎 = 3, and𝑏𝑒𝑡𝑎 = 20.
as a validation for the correctness of the simulator, where the number of hops and the aggregated
delay for the operation match a live network if the parameters are correctly set.
Lookup hops. A hop is an individual step in the recursive lookup operation. It implies asking a
remote node in the network for a number (𝑏𝑒𝑡𝑎 ) of the closest peers it has to the given key or the
value of the key if it has it. This is how the DHT narrows down the lookup of a value. Figure 3
shows the CDF of the number of hops done by an IPFS DHT node when performing 100 sets of 80
concurrent DHT lookups. The figure shows how the 99% of lookups were done in under 18 hops,
with a small tail in the last 1% that can reach the 100 hops on some rare occasions. The numbers
measured with the DHT simulator report similar results, as Figure 5 shows. With a fast-failure
rate of 10% of the connections, the simulation of 100 sets of 200 concurrent lookups report a 99th
percentile of 12 to 14 hops. We also notice that the concurrency overhead parameter does not
impact the number of hops, as we see a negligible difference between the distributions for different
overhead values. This makes sense as the time it takes a node to answer does not change the content
of its routing table, and, therefore, the number of hops is not impacted.
Time performance. Nodes join and leave the network as they please in permission-less networks
such as IPFS and Ethereum. However, the users in the Ethereum network have shown more stability
in maintaining their nodes for long periods. Users are generally staking or extracting on-chain
data from nodes, so they are somehow incentivised to keep the nodes up and running. As a result,
this stability can create healthier routing tables and potentially increase the DHT lookup time
performance. In an attempt to validate the impact of the network conditions on the DHT lookup
performance, Figure 6 compiles the lookup time’s CDF in the IPFS network done by the Probelab
Team [33], with the respective estimated network conditions in each of the regions. It is not a
surprise that different regions have different connectivity. The difference on the 90th percentile of
the regions varies from 700 milliseconds to retrieve a value in the US and Europe to 1.7 seconds
and 1.5 milliseconds in South America and Africa. Moreover, this connectivity difference can
magnify in p2p networks where nodes cluster more in certain regions. The figure also showcases
the possibility of configuring the dht module to fit any realistic network conditions. The figure
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.

8 Cortes et al.
Fig. 6. Accuracy of the DHT simulator model matching lookup performances in the IPFS network from
different locations while keeping𝑘 = 20,𝑎𝑙𝑝ℎ𝑎 = 3, and𝑏𝑒𝑡𝑎 = 20. Note that “fer" stands for “fast error rate".
shows that with the variation of the delay range at the simulated network, the results can accurately
fit the measurements done in the IPFS DHT network from the lookup node’s perspective.
Concurrency overhead. We’ve mentioned the differences between the IPFS and the Ethereum
network. The nature of IPFS, where 80% of users altruistically spawn a node and disconnect it after
8 hours [43], makes it more subjected to node churn [12]. This generally impacts the performance,
as these nodes might be present in the routing table of other nodes for several minutes. Despite the
expected node churn in Ethereum is expected to be lower, having non-active nodes inside the nodes’
routing table doesn’t only affect the direct time performance of the DHT operations. The main
solution to overcome a certain connection failure rate is to attempt multiple simultaneous ones,
with the extra cost of handling those extra concurrent requests. The presented𝑎𝑙𝑝ℎ𝑎 parameter
helps overcome the time impact of facing unreachable nodes, which in IPFS’ is set to 3 concurrent
connections. However, it multiplies the cost of making a single lookup. Figure 7 shows the time
impact of different concurrency overhead parameters on200 concurrent DHT lookups from a single
retrieving node’s perspective. The overhead is applied to nodes contacted during the concurrent
simulated operations. This means that each node connected during the lookup operation will apply
an only increasing overhead delay to its connection delay as other concurrent operations contact
the same peer. If a set 200 connection needs to contact peer𝐴 on three occasions, the first won’t
have any overhead delay, the second one will have a penalty of the overhead parameter, and the
third one will have a penalty of two times the parameter. Users with access to larger hardware
resources could be less restricted by the concurrency overhead of retrieving multiple block segments
in sub-second lookups. In other occasions where the hardware resources are more limited, like in a
solo-staker scenario, the DAS operations will be more penalized for handling so many interactions.
This exposes a clear disadvantage for smaller users if the number of lookups is too high in the
long-term projection of the protocol.
To compare the existing overhead in the IFPS DHT client, Figure 4 exposes the CDF time of
concluding 80 concurrent lookups in the IPFS network in a set of 100 rounds. The figure shows that
90% of concurrent lookups performed between 600ms and 1.2 seconds. Compared to the numbers
presented in Figure 6, we can clearly see that IPFS’s client does see an impact in performance
originating from a concurrency overhead, not at least at this number of concurrent requests.
Therefore, it is also an expected effect in a possible DHT for Ethereum’s DAS.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.

Scalability limitations of Kademlia DHTs when enabling Data Availability Sampling in Ethereum 9
Fig. 7. CDF of the simulated 100 DHT retrieval sets with 200 concurrent keys each using different overheads.
The DHT simulation had the following parameters:𝑘 = 20,𝑎𝑙𝑝ℎ𝑎 = 3, and𝑏𝑒𝑡𝑎 = 20.
Fig. 8. CDF of the simulated 1.000 concurrent DHT
provide operations from a single node.
Fig. 9. CDF of the simulated 10.000 concurrent DHT
provide operations from a single node.
5.2 Seeding of the DHT
The results of the experiments are clear: modern Kademlia-based DHTs can achieve sub-second
sampling performance on its 90th percentile with the favourable conditions that the Ethereum
network provides. Even if looking at less favourable conditions and at higher percentiles, we see
latencies well below the slot time of 12 seconds. However, despite the logarithmic scaling solution
for content addressing, the idea of the DHT seems to be reaching its limits in highly demanding
conditions. While the sampling itself seems to work, the first step of a DHT solution is seeding
the block data into the DHT, where the samples are dispersed around the network according to
their position in the DHT address space. Ethereum’s current network conditions report roughly
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.

10 Cortes et al.
13.000 active nodes. Combined with the suggested standard Kademlia parameters [7] of𝑘 = 20 and
𝑎𝑙𝑝ℎ𝑎 = 3, the seeding of 262.144 block segments (512 columns * 512 rows) would produce a ratio
of 403.29 block segments that each node in the network would have to store, on average, every 12
seconds. Moreover, storing the block samples doesn’t only affect the last contacted nodes. Providing
the keys is a process that starts from a distinct lookup to find the closest𝑘 nodes to the segment’s
key, performing a median of 8 to 10 hops until the closest nodes are notified. If handled simply
as a large number of individual storage requests, the overall network load can easily overload the
network, considering that all this should happen quickly before the actual sampling begins.
To simulate how tedious this seeding from a single node step would look in a Kademlia DHT,
Figure 8 and 9 show the CDF of the simulated DHT provide times for 1.000 and 10.000 samples
concurrently in a network of 12.000 nodes. They show that the overhead factor, together with the
value of𝑘 = 20, has a huge impact on the total duration of the operation. Figure 8 shows that a low
number of samples, 1.000, can still be broadcast to the network within 20 seconds. However, it can
only be achieved if the overhead generated in the network remains low, and existing users would
need to upgrade their hardware to ensure enough resources to keep the DHT. As we increase the
number of concurrently distributed samples from a single node (check 9 with 10.000 concurrent
samples), the CDF shows that the DHT starts to find a bottleneck.
The biggest bottleneck comes from the routing nodes on the seeder’s routing table. As Kademlia
DHT keeps the most optimal and active nodes in the routing table using the XOR distances, the
routing table barely changes in such a short time. Thus, those 250 to 300 in the routing table are
always contacted first on each provided operation, being the most overwhelmed nodes in the
network. This gets more visible if we simulate the provided operation from a single node (i.e.,
the block builder[34]) of the 262.144 samples inside a blob block. Figure 10 shows that even in a
simulation of the best possible conditions (setting a very low factor of 0.015ms per connection), the
congestion in the network would make the process delayed to the10 to 14 minutes, existing 50 times
the original broadcasting deadline of the 12 seconds. To correlate these simulated findings with a
real Kademlia DHT implementation, Figure 11 shows the CDF of the total duration of providing
100 sets of 80 CIDs in the IPFS network (from the beginning of the first CID provide operation, to
the end of the last one in a single set of 80 CIDs). The figure shows that barely 20% of the hundred
sets of provides concluded within 70 seconds, while almost 67% of the provides sets were limited
by the timeout of 80 seconds for each provide. When considering the network load of seeding the
DHT, it is important to remember that block propagation is also done to validators using GossipSub.
However, in that case, instead of sending individual samples to selected target nodes, the efficient
mesh-based GossipSub protocol is used to send entire rows and columns. As mentioned before,
serving sampling requests directly from validators would compromise the identity of individual
validator nodes, and a default Kademlia DHT can’t handle that level of request in such a short time
range. Thus, this raises the question: how do we seed the DHT, and can a DHT still be used as a
blob addressing protocol?
5.3 DHT limitations
The DHT could be seeded by the block proposer/builder, but also by validators (limited to the scope
of their GossipSub subscription). However, we can state that both cases are problematic for several
reasons explained in the following paragraphs:
5.3.1 Single seeder to the DHT. If the block proposer/builder is in charge of the DHT seeding, the
nodes in its routing table will suffer the biggest workload of replying to the first hops of the262.144
requests, creating a huge workload that the network can’t handle in 12 seconds as Figure 10 shows.
The tedious problem of having to perform many provide operations to the DHT network is already
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.

Scalability limitations of Kademlia DHTs when enabling Data Availability Sampling in Ethereum 11
Fig. 10. CDF of the simulated 262.144 concurrent DHT
provide operations from a single node.
Fig. 11. CDF of the time to finish 100 sets of 80 con-
current CID provides to the IPFS network.
present in the IPFS DHT for large service providers like Cloudflare [6] or Pinata [32]. As a result,
organizations and developers have moved the biggest part of the content in IPFS away from the
DHT, relying on several solutions:
• BitSwap [15], a protocol designed to download content from a connected network participant
optimally. Using BitSwap connections as a solution avoids seeding the “provider records"
for each hosted item. However, it relies on the nature of the network to end up connected
to the largest DHT nodes, which centralizes the network and doesn’t provide any content-
addressing solution. It relies on the probability of eventually being connected to one of these
“big" nodes to retrieve the desired content, not guaranteeing minimal retrieval times for a
non-popular item.
• Network Indexers10. It is a separate method that tackles the scalability problems of the DHT
and the content addressing limitations of BitSwap. It offers a network of high throughput
and low latency DHT-like databases present in the network as nodes that can be used by
users supporting the protocols. As expected, this solution breaks the nature of distributed
networks, as it relies on adding a particular actor whose only function is to provide the content
addressing in the network. The solution, despite being scalable, magnifies the exposition of
the network to a denial of service attack. Thus, it is not a viable option for Ethereum.
• The Accelerated Routing Table11. This experimental routing table enables the possibility of
making batch provides or reprovide sweeps12. The method relies on the crawling capabilities
of the DHT host to discover all the participants in the network. Based on the whole pack
of content it has to advertise to the network, it can dismiss every DHT lookup to discover
the𝐾 closest peers as it already knows the entire list of participants. As a result, a node
using an accelerated routing table can perform a bulk-provide operation per each node it
needs to connect. The method saves many round-trip connections but exposes the network
to the feared node churn. One could think about increasing the frequency of refreshing the
routing table to overcome the node churn; however, it would also mean crawling the network
more often, replacing the network’s spam from DHT lookups and refreshing the accelerated
routing table. Furthermore, the Ethereum network tends to have a low level of connections
to limit the bandwidth usage [8], which makes it unviable to implement at the moment.
10https://github.com/ipni
11https://github.com/ipfs/kubo/pull/8997/files
12https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-kad-dht/issues/824
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.

12 Cortes et al.
• Recursive (and forwarding) Kademlia. The cost of seeding a large number of small segments
(key-value pairs) into a Kademlia DHT is expensive due to the large number of interactions
needed from the iterative lookup process, the parallel lookups (alpha), and the number of
target storage nodes (K). [22] introduced recursive Kademlia to reduce the iterative overhead,
while [10, 37] extended this to support efficient broadcasting in the Kademlia address space.
While DAS seeding is more complex than broadcasting, and recursive forwarding introduces
compromises in the robustness of seeding the DHT; similar solutions can be considered to
reduce the network load and time required.
5.3.2 Multiple seeders to the DHT. On the other hand, the seeding could be done more organically
by peers subscribed to a small set of GossipSub topics. This would balance the workload of publishing
many items to the DHT for individual routing tables of the seeding nodes. But even with more
sophisticated solutions like Optimistic Provide [45], the network ends up over-flooded by the same
message as more nodes perform the same provide operation. This solution could be improved by
adding some logic to the consensus, where validators rely on deterministic randomness to define
who must seed the DHT. This solution could follow a similar approach to the one that defines
which validator aggregates and distributes the attestations at each slot committee. However, it
requires a heavy change in the current logic of the consensus and could expose the privacy of the
validators to some degree.
5.3.3 A voiding the DHT. Finally, we should mention that while writing this paper, some early-stage
emerging proposals try to avoid using a DHT for sampling. PeerDAS [31] relies on a deterministic
segment-to-nodeID mapping scheme to avoid expensive lookups. Sampling nodes are assumed to
know enough node IDs to be able to perform their sampling based on the mapping. While a peer
sampling service is assumed, the compromise of PeerDAS compared to the DHT-based solution is a
reduced number of rows and columns. Another proposal, SubnetDAS [40], instead compromises on
the randomness of the sampling, more specifically on the unlinkability of the queries. While in a
DHT-based design every single node can query its selected random samples, in SubnetDAS nodes
subscribe to GossipSub channels, and hold these subscriptions for a specified period, weakening
the protection of nodes against double-spend.
6 CONCLUSION
This paper presents the results and limitations of implementing a direct Kademlia DHT as a DAS
solution for Ethereum’s scalability proposal. We offer a DHT simulator that is validated using
experiments in a production p2p network with an actual Kademlia DHT implementation. Our
results expose that, despite being the right fit for data sampling, it is problematic to seed the
DHT in the context of Ethereum DAS. We discuss several possible alternative ways to seed the
DHT, as elements of other designs not relying on a DHT. In future work, we intend to explore the
viability and performance of DHT solutions in the context of more flexible and less constrained
DAS protocols.
REFERENCES
[1] Mustafa Al-Bassam. “Lazyledger: A distributed data availability ledger with client-side smart
contracts”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.09274 (2019).
[2] Juan Benet. “Ipfs-content addressed, versioned, p2p file system”. In:arXiv preprint arXiv:1407.3561
(2014).
[3] Hamda Al-Breiki et al. “Trustworthy blockchain oracles: review, comparison, and open
research challenges”. In: IEEE access 8 (2020), pp. 85675–85685.
[4] Celestia. url: https://celestia.org/.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.

Scalability limitations of Kademlia DHTs when enabling Data Availability Sampling in Ethereum 13
[5] Anamika Chauhan et al. “Blockchain and scalability”. In: 2018 IEEE international conference
on software quality, reliability and security companion (QRS-C) . IEEE. 2018, pp. 122–128.
[6] Cloudflare. url: https://www.cloudflare.com/. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[7] Mikel Cortes-Goicoechea. IPFS Provider Record’s Liveness. url: https://github.com/plprobelab/
network-measurements/blob/master/results/rfm17-provider-record-liveness.md. (accessed:
08.02.2024).
[8] Mikel Cortes-Goicoechea, Luca Franceschini, and Leonardo Bautista-Gomez. “Resource
analysis of Ethereum 2.0 clients”. In:2021 3rd Conference on Blockchain Research & Applications
for Innovative Networks and Services (BRAINS) . IEEE. 2021, pp. 1–8.
[9] Mikel Cortes-Goicoechea et al. “Autopsy of Ethereum’s Post-Merge Reward System”. In:
arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.09850 (2023).
[10] Zoltán Czirkos and Gábor Hosszú. “Solution for the broadcasting in the Kademlia peer-
to-peer overlay”. In: Computer Networks 57.8 (2013), pp. 1853–1862. issn: 1389-1286. doi:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2013.02.021. url: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S1389128613000777.
[11] Frank Dabek et al. “Designing a DHT for Low Latency and High Throughput.” In: NSDI.
Vol. 4. 2004, pp. 85–98.
[12] Erik Daniel and Florian Tschorsch. “Passively Measuring IPFS Churn and Network Size”.
In: 2022 IEEE 42nd International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems Workshops
(ICDCSW). IEEE. 2022, pp. 60–65.
[13] DankSharding. url: https://ethereum.org/en/roadmap/danksharding/. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[14] Data availability sampling and danksharding: An overview and a proposal for improvements .
url: https://a16zcrypto.com/posts/article/an-overview-of-danksharding-and-a-proposal-
for-improvement-of-das/. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[15] Alfonso De la Rocha, David Dias, and Yiannis Psaras. “Accelerating content routing with
bitswap: A multi-path file transfer protocol in ipfs and filecoin”. In: San Francisco, CA, USA
(2021), p. 11.
[16] DHT simulations on Codex-DAS research . url: https://github.com/codex- storage/das-
research/pull/52. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[17] Alexandros G Dimakis et al. “Network coding for distributed storage systems”. In: IEEE
transactions on information theory 56.9 (2010), pp. 4539–4551.
[18] Discv5. url: https://github.com/ethereum/devp2p/blob/master/discv5/discv5.md. (accessed:
08.02.2024).
[19] EIP-4844. url: https : / / eips . ethereum . org / EIPS / eip - 4844 # blob - transaction. (accessed:
08.02.2024).
[20] Ethereum whitepaper. url: https://ethereum.org/en/whitepaper/. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[21] Mathias Hall-Andersen, Mark Simkin, and Benedikt Wagner. “Foundations of Data Availabil-
ity Sampling”. In: Cryptology ePrint Archive (2023).
[22] Bernhard Heep. “R/Kademlia: Recursive and topology-aware overlay routing”. In: 2010
Australasian Telecommunication Networks and Applications Conference. IEEE. 2010, pp. 102–
107.
[23] Sebastian Henningsen et al. “Crawling the IPFS network”. In:2020 IFIP Networking Conference
(Networking). IEEE. 2020, pp. 679–680.
[24] Harry Kalodner et al. “Arbitrum: Scalable, private smart contracts”. In: 27th USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Security 18) . 2018, pp. 1353–1370.
[25] KZG polynomial commitments . url: https://dankradfeist.de/ethereum/2020/06/16/kate-
polynomial-commitments.html. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[26] Libp2p. url: https://libp2p.io/. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.

14 Cortes et al.
[27] Looking up IPFS. url: https://github.com/cortze/looking-up-ipfs. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[28] Petar Maymounkov and David Mazieres. “Kademlia: A peer-to-peer information system
based on the xor metric”. In: International Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems . Springer. 2002,
pp. 53–65.
[29] On-chain scaling to potentially 500 tx/sec through mass tx validation . url: https://ethresear.ch/
t/on-chain-scaling-to-potentially-500-tx-sec-through-mass-tx-validation/3477. (accessed:
08.02.2024).
[30] Nikolaos Papadis and Leandros Tassiulas. “Blockchain-based payment channel networks:
Challenges and recent advances”. In: IEEE Access 8 (2020), pp. 227596–227609.
[31] PeerDAS proposal. url: https://ethresear.ch/t/peerdas-a-simpler-das-approach-using-battle-
tested-p2p-components/16541. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[32] Pinata. url: https://www.pinata.cloud/. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[33] Probelab.io, IPFS lookups’ performance . url: https://probelab.io/ipfsdht/%5C#dht-lookup-
performance-distribution-by-region. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[34] Proposer-builder separation . url: https : / / ethereum . org / nl / roadmap / pbs/. (accessed:
08.02.2024).
[35] ProtoDankSharding: EIP-4844. url: https://www.eip4844.com/. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[36] py-dht. url: https://github.com/cortze/py-dht. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[37] Elias Rohrer and Florian Tschorsch. “Kadcast: A Structured Approach to Broadcast in
Blockchain Networks”. In: Proceedings of the 1st ACM Conference on Advances in Finan-
cial Technologies. AFT ’19. Zurich, Switzerland: Association for Computing Machinery, 2019,
pp. 199–213. isbn: 9781450367325. doi: 10.1145/3318041.3355469. url: https://doi.org/10.
1145/3318041.3355469.
[38] Scaling Ethereum through Layer2s. url: https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/scaling#
layer-2-scaling. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[39] Peiyao Sheng et al. “ACeD: Scalable data availability oracle”. In: Financial Cryptography and
Data Security: 25th International Conference, FC 2021, Virtual Event, March 1–5, 2021, Revised
Selected Papers, Part II 25 . Springer. 2021, pp. 299–318.
[40] SubnetDAS proposal. url: https://ethresear.ch/t/subnetdas-an-intermediate-das-approach/
17169. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[41] The IPFS DHT Reader Privacy Upgrade . url: https://discuss.ipfs.tech/t/the-ipfs-dht-reader-
privacy-upgrade/16279. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[42] Louis Tremblay Thibault, Tom Sarry, and Abdelhakim Senhaji Hafid. “Blockchain scaling
using rollups: A comprehensive survey”. In: IEEE Access (2022).
[43] Dennis Trautwein. Libp2p. url: https://github.com/plprobelab/network-measurements/blob/
master/results/rfm2-uptime-and-churn.md. (accessed: 08.02.2024).
[44] Dennis Trautwein et al. “Design and evaluation of IPFS: a storage layer for the decentralized
web”. In: Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM 2022 Conference . 2022, pp. 739–752.
[45] Dennis Trautwein et al. “IPFS in the Fast Lane: Accelerating Record Storage with Optimistic
Provide”. In: https://gipplab.org/wp-content/papercite-data/pdf/trautwein2024.pdf ().
[46] Dimitris Vyzovitis et al. “Gossipsub: Attack-resilient message propagation in the filecoin and
eth2. 0 networks”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.02754 (2020).
[47] Stephen B Wicker and Vijay K Bhargava. Reed-Solomon codes and their applications . John
Wiley & Sons, 1999.
[48] Qiheng Zhou et al. “Solutions to scalability of blockchain: A survey”. In: Ieee Access 8 (2020),
pp. 16440–16455.
Received 10 February 2024
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: February 2024.