SyRA: Sybil-Resilient Anonymous Signatures
with Applications to Decentralized Identity
Elizabeth Crites 1, Aggelos Kiayias 2, Markulf Kohlweiss 2, and
Amirreza Sarencheh2⋆
1 Web3 Foundation, Zug, Switzerland
elizabeth@web3.foundation
2 The University of Edinburgh and IOG, Edinburgh, UK
firstname.lastname@ed.ac.uk
Abstract. We study Sybil-Resilient Anonymous (SyRA) signatures, a
cryptographic primitive that enables credentialed users to generate, on
demand, unlinkable pseudonyms tied to any given context, and issue
signatures on behalf of these pseudonyms. Concretely, SyRA allows a
distributed issuer to turn any legacy identity or personhood identifier,
possibly of low entropy, into a unique associated cryptographic key of
high pseudoentropy, for use in generating signatures for any given con-
text. Sybil-resilient anonymous signatures achieve three main objectives:
1) Sybil resilience: every user is entitled toat most one digital identity, 2)
anonymity: no information about the user’s real identity is leaked, and
3) non-interactive context switching : users can create on their own at
most one credential for any given context in a manner that is unlinkable
across contexts.
We conceptualize the SyRA primitive as an ideal functionality in the
Universal Composition (UC) setting and put forth SASSI, an efficient,
pairing-based construction that realizes it by utilizing two levels of ver-
ifiable random functions (VRFs), a design which may be of indepen-
dent interest. The first level consists of threshold VRF issuance of a
user’s unique secret key tied to their real-world identifier. The second
level allows a user to create signatures for each context, under a unique
pseudonym per context. Compared to prior cryptographic tools capable
of realizing SyRA, SASSI has the unique feature that issuers are state-
less and hence do not need to retain any information about past user
interactions, a relevant property for a decentralized implementation.
We overview various applications of SASSI in multiparty systems, such
as cryptocurrency account management and airdrops, e-voting (e.g., for
decentralized governance), and privacy-preserving regulatory compliance
(e.g., AML/CFT checks). In the context of creating addresses for digi-
tal assets, SyRA signatures enable users to embed their legacy identity
into their address in a manner that protects their privacy for each ap-
plication with which they interact. We demonstrate the practicality of
SASSI by providing an implementation and performance evaluation of
our construction.
Keywords: Anonymous Signatures · Sybil Resilience · Decentralized Identity ·
Decentralized Governance · Universal Composition
⋆ Corresponding author: Amirreza Sarencheh

2 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
1 Introduction
A recent development in identity systems is the concept of decentralized identity
(DID), which comes with the promise of empowering users by enabling them to
be “self sovereign” in terms of identity management. 3 This means that users
have the ability to self-manage the secret key(s) behind their identities and
access services that require identification without a trusted third party acting as
an intermediary, e.g., in the case of single sign-on systems, cf. [Wang et al.(2012),
Fett et al.(2016)]. From a cryptographic perspective, two seemingly contradictory
requirements are relevant for identity systems.
– Sybil resilience. With the help of the issuing authority, each user can translate
their real-world identity4 into at most one credential.
– Anonymity. Credentials reveal nothing about the user’s identity, even allowing
them to be unlinkable across applications.
Given that users may be operating across a multitude of applications, or
contexts, it is important for them to be able to easily generate “context-specific”
credentials that, for privacy considerations, must be unlinkable.5 This highlights
the following property.
– Non-interactive context switching. Users can create (at most one) credential,
on demand and non-interactively, for a given context, in a manner that is
unlinkable across contexts. 6
Achieving the above properties is feasible by employing some substantial
cryptographic machinery (see below in related work) but an important consid-
eration still remains: in all existing approaches capable of meeting the above
considerations, the connection to the real-world identity of the signer is tenu-
ous – it fundamentally relies on the ability of the credential issuer to maintain
a mapping between credentials and real-world identities. This raises scalabil-
ity, security, and privacy considerations, namely: how is it possible to manage
such an ever-growing mapping of real-world identities to credentials, distribute
such a mapping across many servers with Byzantine fault tolerance, and, at
the same time, keep it private in order to prevent adversaries from performing
deanonymization attacks via correlation? We refer to these considerations as the
(credential) issuer state problem .
3 The W3C Decentralized Identifier working group [Consortium(2022)] and Decen-
tralized Identity Foundation [Foundation(2023)] have been developing standards for
DIDs.
4 Examples of real-world identities include government-issued identifiers such as a
Social Security Number (SSN) in the United States, or national ID numbers.
5 See Sec. 4.2 of the Peer-DID standard that covers-context specific DIDs for users
https://identity.foundation/peer-did-method-spec/index.html .
6 An interactive context-specific credential generation introduces a dependency on
issuers, which can have negative effects both for latency and privacy, since the user
will have to interact with the issuers each time they engage with a new app.

SyRA Signatures 3
Solving the issuer state problem poses a conundrum that begs cryptographic
treatment: Sybil resilience seems to mandate that the issuer maintain a mapping
of real-world identities to credentials; indeed, failure to do so would permit a
trivial attack against Sybil resilience: the user would exploit the confusion of
the issuer to dispense more than one credential for itself and thus become a
Sybil. On the other hand, scaling and distributing the issuer would benefit from
obfuscating, or even eliminating (if possible!) such state altogether.
Motivated by the connection of all of the above to the DID problem, we focus
in this work on the following question: What is a natural cryptographic primi-
tive that reconciles Sybil resilience with anonymity and non-interactive context
switching, and how can we realize it in a way that solves the issuer state prob-
lem?
Our results. We tackle the above question by putting forth a new primi-
tive, Sybil-Resilient Anonymous (SyRA) signatures, and realizing it via an ef-
ficient construction that solves the issuer state problem, SASSI (Sybil-resilient
Anonymous Signatures with Stateless Issuing), and facilitates a stateless dis-
tributed issuer entity.
In a SyRA signature scheme, a set of issuers is tasked with translating a real-
world identity s into a signing key for the prospective user. 7 By “real-world
identity” (cf. Section 3) we refer to a unique identifier associated with a user
through a verifiable personhood relation. This includes government-issued cre-
dentials (e.g., an X.509 attribute certificate tied to a national ID), a biometric
identifier as in systems like Worldcoin [Worldcoin(2023)] (cf. Section 6), or other
identity assertions from legacy systems, such as those provided via DECO [Zhang
et al.(2020)] or OAuth/OpenID [Sakimura et al.(2014)]. Crucially, we abstract
the notion of identity through a public personhood relation Rs that is verifiable
by the issuers, so that we enable compatibility with a broad range of identity
instantiations without prescribing any specific realization. Given this, the issuers
introduce a user into the system whose identity string satisfies the personhood
relationRs and must ensure that there is a one-to-one correspondence between
issued keys and distinct, real-world identities. Once the issuing protocol succeeds,
a SyRA signature scheme enables a user to sign messages for any given context
ctx; signatures can be verified against the public key of the issuing authori-
ties and the context string. The signing procedure generates a context-specific
pseudonym, or tagT , that is attached to each signature. This enables the user to
create separate and unlinkable pseudonyms to issue signatures across different
contexts. Nevertheless, within a specific context, the signatures issued by the
user can be linked to one another, see Figure 1.
To capture formally the properties of this new primitive, we provide an ideal
functionality for SyRA signatures in Section 3. Some key characteristics of this
7 Note that for SyRA signatures with centralized malicious issuer, we cannot expect
to have privacy, since in that case, the issuer could always impersonate a real-world
user with identitys and use the tracing operation to find all of the user’s signatures.
Note also that s is assumed to be low entropy, such as a government identification
number.

4 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
user
doctor
 bank
 government
 government
(σ1,T 1) (σ2,T 2) (σ3,T 3) (σ4,T 3)
Fig. 1: Illustration of SyRA signatures’ pseudonymsT enabling anonymous, unlinkable
engagements with various contexts. Each signature carries a pseudonymTi derived from
the user’s identity s and the application context. When the same user engages with
the same app more than once, the pseudonym remains the same enabling the app to
service the user by maintaining user specific state. Nevertheless, even against collusion
of parties, the pseudonyms reveals nothing about s or whether the same user is behind
two separate interactions between two different apps.
functionality are as follows. First, it verifies that the prospective user possesses
a valid witness for their identity s with respect to the personhood relation Rs.
Second, upon each signature generation step, it creates a unique user-context
identifier that is leaked to the adversary. This ensures that as long as unique
user-context combinations are being exercised, there is no loss of anonymity.
On the other hand, once the same user signs with the same context twice, the
adversary will be notified by receiving the same user-context identifier. Note that
this does not allow correlation with user actions in other contexts. Finally, the
verification interface enables the verifier to publicly extract the pseudonym of
each signature.
We then set out to present our construction, SASSI, which realizes SyRA via
a distributed and stateless set of issuers, cf. Section 4. From a design perspective,
the challenge is to embed the identity of the user into their signing key so that
signatures are unlinkable as long as distinct contexts are signed by different
users, and at the same time enable linking for user signatures on the same
context. Crucially, we cannot rely on any auxiliary cryptographic structure in
the membership credential – this is because even if the user repeats the whole
issuing protocol again, as long as their real-world identitys remains the same, the
user should not be able to sign the same context more than once without being
linked to the previous instantiation. In this way, our issuers can be stateless.
Our construction overcomes this difficulty via the composition of two verifi-
able random functions (VRF). The first VRF is keyed by the issuing authorities.
During issuance, the user obtains the VRF value on their real-world identity
strings while proving to the issuing authorities that the personhood relationRs
is satisfied. In this manner, the user obtains a value that is deterministically tied
to their real-world identity s. The second challenge is to ensure that this value
can be safely used as the cryptographic key to a second VRF. The reason we

SyRA Signatures 5
aim for a second VRF here is to ensure unlinkability on the one hand, while on
the other hand still linking by a common pseudonym all signatures created by
the same user in the same context.
In our construction, we employ the Dodis-Yampolskiy verifiable random func-
tion (VRF) [Dodis and Yampolskiy(2005)], which we extend to Type-III bilinear
groups. Our asymmetric DY VRF produces the same classical DY VRF output
in the target group with a proof of correctness in one source group; however,
it additionally outputs the same proof in the other source group. Intuitively,
asymmetric groups are needed to enable the use of ElGamal encryption which
relies on Decisional-Diffie Hellman in the zero-knowledge proof that assures the
correct composition of the two VRFs. 8
These two values, which have the form (g1/(s+isk), ˆg1/(s+isk)), serve as the user
secret key in SASSI, generated distributively by the issuers who share the secret
key isk and receive a sharing of the user’s identity string s.
The second primitive in our construction is inspired by the verifiable unpre-
dictable function (VUF) of [Gurkan et al.(2021)], which has the unique property
that it employs agroup element secret key. This is a key ingredient in our scheme,
as the output of the first VRF becomes the secret key of the second. The VUF
of [Gurkan et al.(2021)] leverages the determinism of BLS signatures [Boneh
et al.(2004b)] and a Groth-Escala-style NIZK [Escala and Groth(2014)] proof
of correctness with respect to the group element key. Indeed, the output of the
VUF is the pairing T =e(h(ctx), ˆusk), where ˆusk = ˆg1/(s+isk) is part of the user
secret key, ctx is the context, and h is a hash function modeled as a random ora-
cle. Our scheme has the same output, but we swap the Groth-Escala NIZK with
a Sigma protocol, as Groth-Escala proofs do not support the zero-knowledge
property for statements that involve the target group. Furthermore, we show
in the random oracle model that T = e(h(ctx), ˆusk) is not only unpredictable,
but actually pseudorandom. It follows that the second primitive is also a VRF
(essential for our privacy property).
In order to protect the user’s identity strings, the user chooses a set of issuers
and performs a verifiable secret-sharing of s. Subsequently, the issuers engage in
a distributed VRF computation. As claimed in the original Dodis-Yampolskiy
paper, it is easy to construct a distributed computation of the function Fisk(s) =
g1/(s+isk) when the issuers have shares of the secret isk, see Figure 2. Indeed,
we realize it using standard techniques for multiparty computation via oblivious
transfer (OT) [Even et al.(1985)] multiplication [Haitner et al.(2022)].
We provide a performance evaluation for our construction in Section 5.1; our
results, cf. Figure 11 and Table 1, are highly competitive for real-world settings,
with signature generation (inclusive of context switching if needed) requiring
10.42 ms, signature verification 11.24 ms, signature size 5.703 KB, and issuance
with 150 out of 300 issuers at 73 sec. (Issuance needs to be executed for each
8 We leave as open the question whether a provably secure alternative construction
relying solely on symmetric pairings exists. This might be feasible using DLIN based
encryption [Boneh et al.(2004a)]. In any case, both symmetric pairing groups and
DLIN based encryption affect performance negatively in practice.

6 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
user with unique
real-world identifier: s
user reconstructs
their secret key:
– usk =g
1
s+isk
– ˆusk = ˆg
1
s+isk
4
Iss1
Iss2
Iss3
Iss4
1
3
each stateless issuer Issi:
– verify user’s NIZK proof of per-
sonhood for secret shares of s.
– run efficient distributed VRF
with one multiplication gate.
– output user secret key shares.
2
Fig. 2: Threshold issuance protocol. A user P with a unique real-world identifier s
interacts with t (e.g., t = 4) issuers Issi, each holding a secret key iski, to generate a
secret key pair ( usk, ˆusk). The protocol begins with P verifiably secret-sharing s and
proving its correctness via a zero-knowledge proof 1○. The issuers after a bespoke
multiparty computation 2○, return the output to the user 3○ who reconstructs the
secret-key 4○. No issuer learns s.
user only once.) We conclude our exposition with an overview of deployment
considerations and applications for SyRA signatures. In particular, we describe
how the personhood relation may be realized in an actual deployment using a
variety of methods such as DECO [Zhang et al.(2020)], biometric authentica-
tion as in [Worldcoin(2023)], and OAuth as in [Baldimtsi et al.(2024)]. Finally,
we overview how SyRA signatures apply to various use cases, such as e-voting,
privacy-preserving regulatory compliance, cryptocurrency airdrops, and solving
the “peer DID” objective.
Related work. Below we overview prior cryptographic primitives and their
relation to SyRA signatures and our construction.
Group signatures. Group signatures [Chaum and van Heyst(1991)] allow a mem-
ber of a group to anonymously sign messages on behalf of the group so that the
group manager can determine the identity of any signer using a special trapdoor.
Similar to group signatures, in traceable signatures, each group member has a
tracing token that, if revealed, can link signatures from the same signer [Kiayias
et al.(2004)]. In SyRA signatures, there is no opening (or tracing) authority;
however, each signature incorporates an obfuscation of the user’s identity string
s in such a way that the user is unlinkable across different contexts, but linkable
(while still being anonymous) within the same context.
Ring signatures. Ring signatures [Rivest et al.(2001)] allow a member of a group,
called a ring, to anonymously sign messages on behalf of the group. Ring signa-
tures are similar to group signatures; however, there is no group manager who
creates keys and manages the group. Instead, the formation is ad hoc. Ring

SyRA Signatures 7
signatures provide a strong notion of privacy: there is no mechanism for de-
anonymizing users from the signatures they produce. A related concept of ring
verifiable random functions has been explored in [Burdges et al.(2023)].
Identity-based signatures. Identity-based signatures (IBS) [Shamir(1984)] allow
a user’s signatures to be associated with a real-world identity string, such as an
email address or phone number. User secret keys are generated by a master entity
who ties them to identities using secret information. A deterministic identity-
based signature scheme was proposed in [Herranz(2006)], i.e., signing the same
message twice results in the same signature. This is achieved by employing a
Schnorr signature for the key issuance phase, followed by a BLS signature for
the signing phase, where the field element component of the Schnorr signature is
used as the secret key for BLS. Closer to our aims, an IBS scheme where the key
issuance phase is deterministic was proposed in [Hess(2003)]. Thus, a user can-
not obtain multiple secret keys associated with their identity string. Here, a BLS
signature is used for key issuance, followed by a custom signature algorithm for
the signing phase that takes as input a group-element secret key. A key technical
challenge in our work is combining deterministic signing at both levels, which we
achieve via the Dodis-Yampolskiy VRF followed by a custom-built VRF with a
group-element secret key. In a hidden identity-based signature scheme [Kiayias
and Zhou(2007)], the user’s identity string is not public information. SyRA sig-
natures also facilitate hiding identities as in [Kiayias and Zhou(2007)], but offer,
by design, linkability for multiple signatures in the same context.
Anonymous credentials. The concept of context-specific pseudonyms appears
first in the anonymous credentials literature, beginning with the work of Chaum
[Chaum(1985), Chaum and Evertse(1986)] (who also is the first to define, to
the best of our knowledge, the objective of Sybil resilience ), and followed by
subsequent works, cf. [Camenisch and Lysyanskaya(2001)]. In this setting, users
have distinct and unlinkable pseudonyms across organizations and have to en-
gage with with each organization individually in order to have their pseudonym
authorized—in principle multiple pseudonyms per user could be authorized even
if this might be costly for the user. In SyRA signatures, on the other hand, users
can generate their organizational (context-specific) credentials on their own,
pseudorandomly extracting them from their real world identity. The Coconut
framework [Sonnino et al.(2019)] introduces an anonymous credential construc-
tion that supports distributed threshold issuance. Within this framework, it is
possible to achieve unlinkable selective attribute disclosures and manage both
public and private attributes, even in scenarios where some issuing authorities
may behave maliciously or be offline. However, Coconut does not provide guar-
antees for Sybil resilience.
Unclonable group identification. This line of work, beginning with [Damg˚ ard
et al.(2006), Camenisch et al.(2006b)], covers a setting in which users are unlink-
able across discrete time periods – a more limited setting compared to arbitrary
context strings. In these constructions, the issuer verifies the real-world iden-
tity of the user and maps it to a credential that has the desired Sybil-resilient,
context-specific property across periods. [Camenisch et al.(2006b)] builds upon

8 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
prior work on e-cash [Camenisch et al.(2005), Camenisch et al.(2006a)], with the
addition of this type of context.
Domain-specific pseudonymous signatures (DSPS) and direct anonymous attes-
tation (DAA), cf. [Bender et al.(2012), Bringer et al.(2014), Kuty lowski et al.(2016),
Kluczniak et al.(2016), B la´ skiewicz et al.(2019), Brickell and Li(2010), Yang
et al.(2021)]. These primitives allow users to generate pseudonyms for differ-
ent contexts and create signatures on behalf of these pseudonyms. While it is
possible to adapt and thresholdize these techniques as well as those of unclon-
able group identification to facilitate a SyRA construction, the resulting schemes
would suffer from the credential issuer state problem: there is no immediately
effective way to tie a secret key to a real-world identity (other than generic
MPC that, e.g., evaluates a PRF “in the exponent”). A similar consideration
applies to UTT [Tomescu et al.(2022)], a decentralized payment system based
on anonymous credentials. In contrast, our construction SASSI only requires a
special-purpose MPC with a single multiplication gate.
Linkable and traceable ring signatures. Linkable ring signatures [Liu et al.(2004)]
allow for two signatures issued by the same signer with respect to the same
ring of keys to be linked. Traceable ring signatures [Fujisaki and Suzuki(2007),
Au et al.(2013)] generalize this notion to arbitrary contexts and allow for the
recovery of the public key of the signer in case of signing twice in the same
context. One-time traceable ring signatures [Scafuro and Zhang(2021)] facilitate
the recovery of the public key of the signer in the linkable ring signature scenario.
A similar type of functionality is achieved in the context of e-petitions in [Diaz
et al.(2008)], where users can only sign a petition once. As mentioned earlier,
in all these primitives, the connection between the user’s secret key and their
real-world identity is via an explicit mapping maintained by the issuer. While,
in principle, such techniques could be used to produce a SyRA construction, they
fundamentally rely on an issuer-maintained mapping of real-world identities to
secret keys.
Threshold DY VRF. As mentioned, Dodis and Yampolskiy [Dodis and Yampol-
skiy(2005)] suggests a strategy for threshold implementation, which is explored
further in [Dodis et al.(2006)] with security in the semi-honest setting. [Miao
et al.(2020)] focuses on the n-out-of-n setting, while the general malicious set-
ting is studied later in [Doerner et al.(2023)]. Our issuance protocol for SASSI
suitably adapts these techniques to realize SyRA.
Legacy-compatible9 identification. In this setting, put forth in [Zhang et al.(2020)]
and utilized in the context of DIDs in CanDID [Maram et al.(2021)], users can
prove a piece of information, which can be their real-world identity, from a
“legacy” web service to a third-party provider. In the context of CanDID, such
a provider (which is in fact a distributed entity) can issue a credential that
the user can, on demand (albeit interactively with the issuer), transpose to any
9 Legacy refers to a scheme that is not purpose-built for the task at hand but is
preexisting. See, for example, [Maram et al.(2021)], where the same terminology is
used for this purpose.

SyRA Signatures 9
context he wishes, while remaining unlinkable; furthermore, Sybil resilience is
ensured with respect to the user’s real-world identity. The CanDID construction
makes the only attempt (to the best of our knowledge) towards solving the issuer
state problem: the real-world identity of the user is obfuscated in the form of
its pseudorandom function (PRF) evaluation via a key that is shared between
the issuing authorities. Each issuing authority keeps a copy of this obfuscated
database and, hence, any attempt of the user to subvert Sybil resilience can be
blocked by checking the PRF evaluation of their real-world identity against the
obfuscated database. It is worth noting that this approach still has the downsides
that each issuer needs to maintain a state linear in the number of credentials,
and that users who lose their keys need additional infrastructure to help them
recover them, as the issuers, in their effort to protect against Sybils, will deny
re-issuance to any user who is unfortunate enough to lose their key. Our con-
struction SASSI, on the other hand, circumvents both of these downsides by
requiring no (updatable) state for the issuers and by requiring no interaction
to introduce users to new contexts. Furthermore, it solves two open questions
from [Zhang et al.(2020)], enforcing non-transferability (due to linkability of sig-
natures in the same context), and providing unlinkability even if the adversary
controls a minority of “committee members” (issuers in our setting).
zkLogin [Baldimtsi et al.(2024)] aims to enable users to authenticate on the
blockchain using legacy credentials without managing blockchain-specific secret
keys. To achieve this, zkLogin introduces a salt service, which adds high-entropy
salt to low-entropy user attributes, deriving a zkLogin address while preserv-
ing the privacy of user attributes. zkLogin offers an alternative mode in which
users manage the salt themselves. In this mode, deviating from zkLogin’s main
objective of removing the need to manage blockchain-specific secret keys, users
must securely record the secret salt in order to access their on-chain funds. Im-
portantly, for our purposes, in both modes (salt service and user-managed salt),
zkLogin does not provide Sybil resilience. SyRA, unlike zkLogin which relies
solely on OAuth, can interoperate with a variety of identity providers (including
OAuth) as elaborated in Section 6. Proving the well-formedness of user addresses
in zkLogin is not ZK-friendly, whereas SyRA defines user addresses algebraically,
enabling more efficient proofs.
A similar approach is employed by ZK Address Abstraction [Park et al.(2023)],
which uses zero-knowledge proofs over signed statements issued by providers
based on user information to authenticate blockchain transactions. While this
scheme protects users’ private data, it also does not address Sybil resilience.
2 Preliminaries
Let λ∈ N denote the security parameter and 1λ its unary representation. Let p
be a λ-bit prime. For all positive polynomials f(λ), a function negl : N→ R+ is
called negligible if∃ λ0∈ N such that∀ λ>λ 0 it holds that negl(λ)< 1/f(λ).
We denote by G∗ the set G\ 1G, where 1 G is the identity element of the group
G. We denote the group of integers mod p by Zp = Z/pZ and its multiplicative

10 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
group of units by Z∗
p. We denote the set of integers {1,...,n } by [1,n ]. Let
Y
$
← −F (X) denote running probabilistic algorithm F on input X and assigning
its output to Y . Let x
$
← −Zp denote sampling an element of Zp uniformly at
random. All algorithms are randomized unless expressly stated otherwise. PPT
refers to probabilistic polynomial time.
Definition 1 (Bilinear group). A bilinear group generator GrGen(1λ) returns
a tuple bp← (G, ˆG, GT,p,e,g, ˆg) such that G, ˆG and GT are finite groups of the
same prime order p, g∈ G and ˆg∈ ˆG are generators, and e : G× ˆG→ GT is a
bilinear pairing, which is efficiently computable and satisfies (1) non-degeneracy:
e(g, ˆg)̸= 1GT and (2) bilinearity: ∀ x,y∈ Zp, e(gx, ˆgy) =e(g, ˆg)xy =e(gy, ˆgx).
We rely on Type-III, or asymmetric, bilinear groups G and ˆG, for which there
is no efficiently computable isomorphism between them, and two hardness as-
sumptions defined over them: the Decisional Diffie-Hellman (DDH) assumption
and the q-Decisional Bilinear Diffie-Hellman Inversion ( q-DBDHI) assumption.
Our construction also relies on Shamir secret sharing (SSH), the ElGamal pub-
lic key encryption (PKE) scheme, and the Pedersen commitment scheme. See
Appendix A for their definitions.
2.1 Verifiable random functions
A verifiable random function (VRF) is a function whose output is pseudoran-
dom and for which a proof of correct evaluation is provided (i.e., a PRF with
verifiability).
In our construction of a Sybil-resilient anonymous (SyRA) signature scheme,
SASSI, we employ a VRF to compute user secret keys. Recall the Dodis-Yampolskiy
VRF in Figure 3 [Dodis and Yampolskiy(2005)]. It is defined over a symmetric
pairing e : G× G→ GT , where the output is a value Fsk(τ) = e(g,g )1/(τ +sk) in
the target group, with corresponding proof πvrf =g1/(τ +sk) in the source group.
It is proven secure (i.e., pseudorandom) under the q-Decisional Bilinear Diffie-
Hellman Inversion assumption ( q-DBDHI) in [Dodis and Yampolskiy(2005)]:
Given (g,gx,...,g xq
), it is hard to distinguish e(g,g )1/x from random. The q
powers are used to simulate VRF output queries in the security reduction. In
our construction, we make use of the Dodis-Yampolskiy VRF in the asymmet-
ric setting. In particular, user secret keys consist of a pair of group elements,
one in each of the source groups, corresponding to a VRF proof of correctness
in each group. We capture this in our VRF definitions (Definitions 4 and 5)
by allowing a second proof ˆπvrf to be output. 10 Pseudorandomness plays a key
role in the security proof of our construction (specifically, in preserving user
anonymity) while verifiability ensures that users can prove they have interacted
with the VRF secret-key holder. Our asymmetric DY VRF is secure under the
10 Our definitions are the standard VRF definitions where the proof consists of both
elements (πvrf, ˆπvrf). We simply chose to present them in a way that is syntactically
closer to our scheme, for greater clarity and self-containment.

SyRA Signatures 11
q-Decisional Diffie-Hellman inversion assumption ( q-DBDHI) over asymmetric
pairings (see Appendix A).
Definition 2 (Verifiable random function (VRF)). [Dodis and Yampol-
skiy(2005)] Letℓ : N→ N∪{∗} and ℓ′ : N→ N be any functions for which ℓ(λ)
and ℓ′(λ) are computable in poly( λ) time (except when ℓ takes the value ∗ for
an input of any length). A function family F(·)(·) :{0, 1}ℓ(k)→{ 0, 1}ℓ′(k) is a
family of VRFs if there exist polynomial-time algorithms (VRF.Setup, VRF.Gen,
VRF.Prove, VRF.Ver) as follows:
– PP
$
← −VRF.Setup(1λ) : a PPT algorithm that takes as input the security
parameter and outputs public parameters PP, which are implicitly given as
input to all other algorithms.
– (vk, sk)
$
← −VRF.Gen(): a PPT algorithm that returns a public verification key
vk and secret key sk.
– (Fsk(τ),π vrf)← VRF.Prove(sk,τ ): an algorithm that takes as input a secret key
and VRF input τ and returns a VRF output Fsk(τ) and proof of correctness
πvrf.
– 0/1← VRF.Ver(vk,τ,T,π vrf): a deterministic algorithm that takes as input a
verification key, VRF input τ, VRF output T , and proof πvrf and verifies that
T = Fsk(τ) using the proof πvrf, outputting 1 to indicate acceptance or 0 to
indicate rejection.
The main security properties of a VRF are correctness, uniqueness, and pseu-
dorandomness.
Definition 3 (VRF correctness). For allλ∈ N and input values τ∈{ 0, 1}λ,
Pr

PP← VRF.Setup(1λ); (vk, sk)
$
← −VRF.Gen();
(T,π vrf)
$
← −VRF.Prove(sk,τ ) : VRF.Ver(vk,τ,T,π vrf) = 1

= 1
Definition 4 (VRF uniqueness). For all PPT adversaries A playing game
Gameunique
A , there exists a negligible function negl such that: Advunique
A (λ) =
Pr[Gameunique
A (λ) = 1]≤ negl(λ).
The game Gameunique
A (λ) (with optional second proof ˆπvrf) is defined as fol-
lows:
– PP← VRF.Setup(1λ)
– (vk∗,τ∗,T∗
1,T∗
2,π∗
vrf,1,π∗
vrf,2, ˆπ∗
vrf,1 , ˆπ∗
vrf,2 )
$
← −A()
– return (T∗
1̸=T∗
2 )∧ VRF.Ver(vk∗,τ∗,T∗
1,π∗
vrf,1, ˆπ∗
vrf,1 )∧
VRF.Ver(vk∗,τ∗,T∗
2,π∗
vrf,2, ˆπ∗
vrf,2 )
Definition 5 (VRF pseudorandomness). For all PPT adversaries A play-
ing game Gamepseudo
A , there exists a negligible function negl such that: Advpseudo
A (λ) =
Pr[Gamepseudo
A (λ) = 1]≤ negl(λ).
The game Gamepseudo
A (λ) (with optional second proof ˆπvrf) is defined as fol-
lows:

12 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
– S←∅ / /query set
– PP← VRF.Setup(1λ)
– (vk, sk)← VRF.Gen()
– b′ $
← −AOSign,OChal
(vk)
– return (b′ =b)
where the oracleOSign(τ) and the oracle OChal(τ∗) ( called once) are defined
as follows:
OSign(τ):
– if τ =τ∗return⊥
– else
– (T,π vrf, ˆπvrf )
← VRF.Prove(sk,τ )
– S← S∪{τ}
– return (T,π vrf, ˆπvrf )
OChal(τ∗):
– if τ∗∈ S return⊥
– b
$
← −{0, 1}
– if b = 0, T0←Fsk(τ∗)
– if b = 1, T1
$
← −{0, 1}ℓ′(λ)
– return Tb
Our asymmetric Dodis-Yampolskiy VRF construction. Our asymmet-
ric Dodis–Yampolskiy VRF ( DY-VRF†) construction is specified in Figure 4.
DY-VRF† is distinguished from DY-VRF in a number of ways, e.g., proofs re-
side in both asymmetric source groups, its public key exists only in the second
source group, and VRF verification checks three equalities in the target group.
Theorem 1. DY-VRF† (Figure 4) satisfies uniqueness (Definition 4) and pseu-
dorandomness (Definition 5) under the q-Decisional Bilinear Diffie-Hellman In-
version assumption (see Appendix A).
Proof. This follows from the uniqueness and pseudorandomness of the DY VRF
under the symmetric q-Decisional Bilinear Diffie-Hellman Inversion assumption
(q-DBDHI) [Dodis and Yampolskiy(2005)]. 11
In the original Dodis-Yampolskiy reduction, the powers ( g,gx,...,g xq
) are
used to simulate the output and VRF proof. The additional powers (ˆg, ˆgx,..., ˆgxq
)
in our construction are only needed to simulate the VRF proof ˆπvrf in the other
source group.
11 [Dodis and Yampolskiy(2005)] restricts inputs to be of at most super-logarithmic size
(in the security parameter) in order to prove security against adaptive adversaries.
We also note that real-world identifiers, in the context of our work, are small e.g.,
SSN in the US.

SyRA Signatures 13
Fig. 3: The Dodis-Yampolskiy VRF [Dodis and Yampolskiy(2005)].
Fig. 4: Our asymmetric Dodis-Yampolskiy VRF ( DY-VRF†).
3 Formal modelling of SyRA signatures
We define Sybil-resilient anonymous ( SyRA) signatures using an ideal function-
alityFSyRA, which captures the desired security properties: threshold issuance,
unforgeability, Sybil resilience, privacy-preservation, and unlinkability. The func-
tionalityFSyRA is parameterized by a threshold t≤n and n issuers denoted as
I = (Iss1,..., Issn). The party identifiers of the issuers are incorporated into the
session identifier sid = (I, sid′). Initially, the state variable Init is set to 0. At
the conclusion of the key generation phase, Init is updated to 1. For all other
interfaces of the functionality ( threshold issuance, signature generation, verifi-
cation, and leak signatures ) a check is performed at the beginning to ensure
that Init = 1. If this condition is not satisfied, FSyRA disregards the received
message.
Key generation. The functionalityFSyRA first verifies that sid = (I, sid′), en-
suring that each set of n issuers can initialize their own instance of the func-
tionality. Upon receiving the (Init, sid) message from all issuers specified in sid,
FSyRA queries the adversaryA for a verification key ivk, which is then recorded
byFSyRA.
Threshold issuance. Before a party P is granted the capability to sign mes-
sages, it must demonstrate ownership of the personhood identity string s. This
verification is formalized through an abstract personhood relationRs(xs, (s,ws)).

14 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
The relationRs operates on a public value xs, which encapsulates publicly ac-
cessible information shared between the enrolling party P and each issuer Issi∈ I
participating in the multiparty issuance process. The multiparty setup requires
I⊂I , and|I| =t, where t is the threshold number of issuers necessary to regis-
ter a user. The enrolling party also has the private witness (s,ws) corresponding
to the identity string s to satisfy the relation Rs.
The personhood relation Rs allows us to configure the functionality to sup-
port different identification processes. For instance, if users 12 are in possession
of X.509 attribute certificates for their s value, the relation can be of the form
RGov
s (xs, (s,ws)) so that xs = ( pkGov, certP),ws = skP, certP = ( pkP,s ), and
Cert.Verify(pkGov, certP) = 1∧ pkP =gskP. That is, the party P proves that they
possess a certificate on s signed by the government for which they know their
secret key. Note that it is crucial that the issuers confirm pkGov as part of their
input; otherwise, the user could use certificates signed by arbitrary public keys.
It is straightforward to extend the above to a setting where various identity
providers are recognized by the issuers. Another alternative is that the issuers
and user run DECO [Zhang et al.(2020)], a mechanism for porting existing iden-
tities from websites (e.g., bank or government websites). Note also that xs mod-
els the leakage of the certification process. If one were to, for example, model
anonymous credentials instead of classical certificates, certP would become part
of ws, and xs would not reveal any information about s. We intentionally leave
any further details aboutRs and the way it is implemented in the environment
unspecified, so that our mechanism is compatible with a variety of different
personhood instantiations.
The mapping I associates parties P with their corresponding identity strings
s. Each honest party P is uniquely associated with a single s value, whereas
malicious parties may be associated with multiple s values, provided that for
eachs, the relationRs(xs, (s,ws)) holds. If a malicious party submits ans value
(for whichRs holds) that has already been recorded for an honest party, or if
an honest party submits an s value that is already associated with a malicious
party, the functionality FSyRA records s using the mapping ˆP(s). Here, ˆP(s)
maps the identity string s to its associated party identifiers. In such cases, the
party P is deemed a compromised party. When a party P invokes the threshold
issuance interface, if P∈ ˆP(s) holds for the provided s, the functionalityFSyRA
does not offer anonymity guarantees for P.
Signature generation. Both honest and malicious parties can request signa-
tures σ for a given context ctx and message m. Upon receiving a signature re-
quest, a new signature is generated by interacting with the adversaryA. During
this process, only the identities of compromised parties are revealed, along with
a value ucid, which serves as a unique label for each user-context pair. Recall
that a party is classified as compromised, for instance, if its identity string s
has been submitted to the issuance protocol of a malicious party. This scenario
models the use of multiple devices belonging to the same user.
12 The terms “user” and “party” are used interchangeably.

SyRA Signatures 15
Upon receiving a response from the adversary, the functionality updates the
set Sig to facilitate signature verification. The adversary submits the signature
σ, the pseudonymT (against which Sybil is checked), and the identity stringss∗
for malicious parties to FSyRA. As the adversary may possess multiple identity
strings,FSyRA records s∗ for malicious parties. For honest parties, s∗ is ignored
becauseFSyRA already maintains a unique identity strings for each honest party.
The functionalityFSyRA verifies the submitted pseudonym T e.g., whether it is
consistent with an already recorded pseudonym T′ for the same verification key
ivk, identity string s, and context ctx. To ensure consistency, FSyRA adds new
records to the set Sig as necessary.
It might be possible to strengthen the functionality by having the adversary
commit to the algorithm that issues signatures and pseudonyms for honest users
in advance (and monitor this algorithm to ensure the desired properties). We
leave the specification and realization of such a functionality as a direction for
future work.
Verification. The verification interface enables external parties to validate sig-
natures and retrieve the associated pseudonyms T . Notably, we do not assume
the existence of a public-key infrastructure for issuer verification keys or the use
of authenticated channels between verifiers and issuers. As a result, verifiers may
inadvertently rely on incorrect issuer verification keys. For signatures generated
using the verification keys of the session’s designated issuers, the verification pro-
cess leverages the records in Sig that were created during signature generation.
For other verification keys, the adversary determines the verification outcome.
Regarding pseudonym T extraction, the interface allows external parties to
submit signatures and retrieve the associated pseudonym, enabling parties, upon
obtaining the pseudonym T , to query their local key-value store table to deter-
mine whether a tuple (pseudonym T, ctx) exists. By doing so, parties can effi-
ciently detect all signatures generated by the same identity strings holder within
the same context ctx. If the submitted signature is invalid with respect toivk, the
functionalityFSyRA returns⊥ as the pseudonym. To ensure consistency, FSyRA
maintains a record of previous verification and pseudonym extraction results in
the set Ver.
Leak signatures. This is an adversarial interface for retrieving the signatures of
users who are corrupted during the protocol (i.e., adaptively corrupted). It is an
interesting question whether some of this leakage can be avoided by employing
key-evolving VRFs [David et al.(2024)] to achieve forward secrecy. This question
and the question of adaptive corruption in general is left for future work.
Functionality Sybil-resilient anonymous signaturesFSyRA
The functionalityFSyRA is parameterized by a thresholdt≤n andn issuers
I = (Iss1,..., Issn). All sets and mappings are initialized as empty: W =
I(P) = ˆP(s) =T = M = D = Sig = Ver =∅.

16 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
Key generation. Upon receiving the input ( Init, sid) from a party
Issi: Parse sid = ( I, sid′). If Issi /∈ I, ignore. Else, update W ←
W ∪{ Issi}. Output ( Init, sid, Issi) to A. Once |W| = n, and upon
receiving ( VerKey, sid, ( ˆivki, ˆivk)) from A for each Issi ∈ I: Output
(VerKey, sid, ( ˆivki, ˆivk)) to each Issi∈I via public-delayed output. Record
ˆivk, and set Init← 1.
Threshold issuance. (i) Upon receiving (Issue, sid,s,x s,ws, I) from some
party P, and (Issue.Ok, sid,xs) from issuer Issi, where sid = (I, sid′),|I| =
t, I⊂I , and Issi∈ I act as follows.
Upon receiving (Issue.Ok, sid,xs) fromt issuers, ignore ifRs(xs, (s,ws))̸=
1 or if P is honest and there exists s′ such that I(P) =s′ and s′̸=s. Else,
act as follows:
1. If P is malicious, retrieve {Pi}i values of honest parties for which
{I(Pi) =s}i holds. Set ˆP(s)←{ Pi}i.
2. Else ( P is honest), if there exists a malicious party P′ for whichs∈ I(P′)
holds, set ˆP(s)← ˆP(s)∪ P.
Generate a fresh id. Set T (id) ← (P,s ). If P ∈ ˆP(s), set T ←
(P,s, ˆP(s),xs, I). Else, set T ←(xs, I). Hand ( Issue, sid, id,T ) to A. //
FSyRA guarantees privacy: the adversary learns neither s nor P.
(ii) Upon receiving ( Issue,b, sid, id) from A: Ignore if T (id) = ⊥. Else,
retrieve T (id) = ( P,s ). If b = 1: set I(P) ← I(P)∪{ s}; and output
(Issued, sid) to P. Else (b = 0), output ( Issue.Failed, sid) to P.
Signature generation. (i) Upon receiving a value (Sign, sid, ctx,m ) from
some party P: Ignore if I(P) =∅. Else, if there exists aucid where M(ucid) =
(P, ctx), retrieve ucid. Else, generate a fresh ucid and set M(ucid)← (P, ctx).
If there exists an s value such that P∈ ˆP(s), set ψ← (ctx,m, P). Else,
set ψ ← (ctx,m ). Select a fresh tid and set D(tid)← (P, ctx,m ). Hand
(Sign, sid, ucid,ψ, tid) toA. // FSyRA guarantees privacy: the adversary learns
neither s nor P.
(ii) Upon receiving ( Signature, sid,σ,T,s ∗, tid) fromA: Ignore if D(tid) =
⊥, or there exists an entry ( ·,·,·,·,σ,·,·) in the set Sig. Else, retrieve
D(tid) = (P, ctx,m ).
1. If s∗∈ I(P) and P is malicious, set s←s∗.
2. Else, if P is honest, retrieve I(P) ={s′} and set s←s′.
3. Else, ignore.
Ignore if:
1. there exists ( ivk,s, ctx,·,·,T′,·)∈ Sig where T′̸= T or, // FSyRA guar-
antees Sybil-resilience: it enforces one T pers and ctx
2. there exists ( ivk,s, ctx′,·,·,T,·)∈ Sig where ctx′̸= ctx or, // FSyRA guar-
antees unlinkability: it enforces two pseudonyms per fixed s but different con-
texts

SyRA Signatures 17
3. there exists ( ivk,s′, ctx,·,·,T,·)∈ Sig wheres′̸=s. // FSyRA enforces two
distinct pseudonyms per fixed ctx but different identities
Else, add ( ivk,s, ctx,m,σ,T, 1) to the set Sig. Output
(Signature, sid, ctx,m,σ ) to P.
Verification. (i) Upon receiving a value (Ver, sid, ivk′, ctx,m,σ ) from some
party V: Hand ( Ver, sid, ivk′, ctx,m,σ ) toA.
(ii) Upon receiving ( Ver.Ok, sid, ivk′, ctx,m,σ,T,θ ) fromA:
1. If ( ivk′,·, ctx,m,σ,T ′,Θ′)∈ Ver, setT ←T′ and Θ←Θ′.
2. Else, if ( ivk,s, ctx,m,σ,T ′, 1) ∈ Sig such that ivk′ = ivk, record
(ivk,s, ctx,m,σ,T ′, 1) in the set Ver and setT ←T′ and Θ← 1.
3. Else, if ( ivk,·, ctx,m,σ,·, 1) /∈ Sig such that ivk′ = ivk, record
(ivk,·, ctx,m,σ,⊥, 0) in the set Ver and setT ←⊥andΘ← 0. // FSyRA
guarantees unforgeability: if ivk′ = ivk and the signer has never signed (ctx,m ),
then the verification fails.
4. Else, record ( ivk′,·, ctx,m,σ,T,θ ) in the set Ver and set T ←T and
Θ← θ. // If none of the conditions above are met, the functionality allows
the adversary to determine the values of T and Θ.
Output (Ver.End, sid, ivk′, ctx,m,σ,T,Θ ) to V. // FSyRA guarantees privacy:
the adversary learns neither s nor P.
Leak signatures. Upon receiving (Leak.Sig, sid, ivk,s ) fromA: If ˆP(s) =
∅, set η ← ⊥. Else, retrieve {(ivk,s,·,·,σi,Ti, 1)}i from set Sig and set
η←{σi}i. Hand ( Leaked.Sig, sid, ivk,η ) toA.
4 Our construction: SASSI
We describe our Sybil-resilient anonymous signature construction ΠSASSI and
prove thatΠSASSI securely realizesFSyRA. Our construction consists of two main
parts: (i) issuance of each user’s secret key as a deterministic function of their
unique identity strings and the joint secret key of the issuers, and (ii) generation
of Sybil-resilient anonymous signatures by users under the obtained secret keys.
Our threshold issuance enables multiple issuers, each holding a share of the
signing key isk, to issue a key pair ( usk, ˆusk) to each user P. Specifically, we
consider a set of n issuersI = (Iss1,..., Issn), where each issuer Issi possesses a
secret key iski received from the distributed key generation (DKG) functionality
Fn,t
DKG. Each issuer’s verification key ˆivki is an element of the bilinear pairing’s
second source group ˆG.
A user’s secret key ( usk, ˆusk) is computed as (g1/(s+isk), ˆg1/(s+isk)). This rep-
resentation consists of two Dodis-Yampolskiy VRF proofs [Dodis and Yampol-
skiy(2005)], one in each source group (Figure 4). As noted in the original paper,
constructing a distributed computation of the function fisk(s) = g1/(s+isk) is

18 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
straightforward when the issuers possess shares of the secret isk. Our threshold
issuance protocol, is a distributed evaluation of Dodis-Yampolskiy VRF proofs
where no issuer sees the user’s identity strings in plaintext, and collusion among
t issuers would be required to compromise privacy. In this protocol, t out of n
issuers, each holding iski andsi, collaborate with the user to generate the user’s
secret key (usk, ˆusk).
Our construction uses three cryptographic primitives: Shamir secret sharing
(Definition 6), ElGamal encryption (Definition 12), and our asymmetric Dodis-
Yampolskiy verifiable random function DY-VRF† (Figure 4). Additionally, it re-
lies on the following ideal sub-functionalities: non-interactive zero knowledge
functionalityFNIZK (Appendix B.1), sender-anonymous and secure communica-
tion channel functionality F sas
Ch (Appendix B.2) 13, broadcast functionality FB
(Appendix B.3), distributed key generation functionalityFn,t
DKG (Appendix B.4),
multiplication functionalityFmul (Appendix B.5), and random oracle functional-
ityFRO (Appendix B.6). The constructionΠSASSI is presented in four phases: key
generation, threshold issuance, signature generation, and verification as follows.
Key generation. In this phase, each issuer Issi is activated byZ, and whenever
alln issuers are activated, the protocol generates secret signing key sharesiski for
each issuer, a set of n issuer public keys{ ˆivkk}n
k=1, and a public verification key
ˆivk∈ ˆG as outputs of the DKG functionalityFn,t
DKG. (Note that Issi does not have
a verification key in the first source group G.) The protocol is parameterized by:
1. the description of a bilinear pairing group
bp =
 
p, G, ˆG, GT,e,g, ˆg

,
2. the set of generators ( h,W, ˆW ), where:
– g,W,h ∈ G are generators of G such that the discrete logarithm between
any pair is unknown;
– ˆg, ˆW∈ ˆG are generators of ˆG such that the discrete logarithm between
them is unknown,
3. public parameters ivk = (bp, ˆivk,h,W, ˆW ).
The algorithm run by each issuer is provided in Figure 5.
1. Input: Upon receiving ( Init, sid) fromZ, act as follows.
2. Call Fn,t
DKG
a with (DKeyGen, sid).
3. Upon receiving ( Point, sid, ˆivk,ri,{ ˆivkk}n
k=1) fromFn,t
DKG, set: iski← ri,
and ˆivki← ˆgiski.
4. Record ( iski, ˆivk), and{ ˆivki}n
i=1.
13 Note that a degree of sender anonymity is essential for maintaining privacy. Without
this anonymity, “network leakage” could potentially expose the parties involved in
a transaction, regardless of the robustness of cryptographic safeguards at the trans-
actional level. Furthermore, in real-world deployment, some level of network leakage
might be deemed acceptable. In such a scenario, our analysis would still be appli-
cable, acknowledging that the adversary could compromise privacy through traffic
analysis to some extent.

SyRA Signatures 19
5. Output: Output (VerKey, sid, ( ˆivki, ˆivk)) toZ.
a Note that the functionality F n,t
DKG is parameterized by the second source group
ˆG of the bilinear pairing.
Fig. 5: Key generation – Issi
Threshold issuance.
Threshold issuance is an interactive protocol between the party P, which has a
unique real-world identifiers, andt issuers Issi∈ I,|I| =t, each holding a secret
key iski. The protocol enables party P to generate its secret key pair ( usk, ˆusk),
corresponding to two VRF proofs, πvrf and ˆπvrf, for DY-VRF†. The protocol
produces no output for the issuers. Party P is activated by the environmentZ,
which provides an instruction specifying a set of t issuers I with whom P is to
engage during the issuance protocol. If the environment has previously provided
a different s to P in an earlier session, P disregards the current instruction.
To initiate the protocol, P verifiably secret-shares the value s received fromZ.
This is accomplished by committing to the shares and broadcasting a vector
of all t commitments to the issuers. Additionally, P generates a zero-knowledge
proof showing that the committed shares are consistent with the original secret
s, for which the personhood relationRs(xs, (s,ws)) = 1 holds. Once this proof is
constructed, P transmits it along with the associated statement and the opening
of the commitment to each issuer Issi∈ I via the channelF sas
Ch .
The algorithm executed by P is detailed in Figure 6.
1. Input: Upon receiving ( Issue, sid,s,x s,ws, I) fromZ, act as follows.
2. Parse sid = (I, sid′), and ignore if: (i) I̸⊂I , or (ii)|I|̸ =t, or (iii) there
exists a recorded s′ such that s′̸= s, or (iv) Rs(xs, (s,ws))̸= 1. Else,
record s as s′.
3. Call {si}n
i=1
$
← −SSH.Sharen,t(s).
4. Choose a fresh identifier id.
5. ∀i∈ index(I): set comi←gsi·hzi for zi
$
← −Z∗
p.
6. Set comI←{ comi}∀i∈index(I).
7. Call FBC with (Broadcast, sid|| id|| I, comI).
8. Set NIZK statement x← (comI,xs).
9. Set NIZK witness w← (s,ws,{sj}n
j=1,{zi}∀i∈index(I)).
10. Call FNIZK with (Prove, sid,x,w ) for the relation R(x,w ):
(a) comI =
n
comi =gsi·hzi
o
∀i∈index(I)
(b) SSH.Aggn,t{si}∀i∈index(I) =s
(c) Rs(xs, (s,ws)) = 1
11. Receive ( Proof, sid,π ) fromFNIZK.
12. Output: CallF sas
Ch with ( Send, sid|| id|| I, Issi, (si,zi,x,π )) for each
Issi∈ I.

20 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
Fig. 6: Threshold issuance – P (1st phase)
Each issuer Issi awaits activation through three distinct messages: from the net-
work and from the environmentZ. The network signals activation by delivering
the user’s messages sent via FBC andF sas
Ch . The environment Z confirms the
validity of the statement associated with the user’s personhood proof xs. Upon
receiving these messages, the issuer Issi checks the correctness of the commit-
ment and verifies the zero-knowledge proof πi to ensure the well-formedness of
si. Subsequently, each issuer Issi independently samples a random value ri and
provides it, together with the tuple ( iski,si), and auxiliary information auxi to
Fmul.
The value auxi contains the randomness of commitment zi, and two vectors of
size t: ({ ˆivkk}t
k=1, comI).Fmul first checks the well-formedness of the input of
each issuer. Specifically, it checks if ˆgiski results in ˆivki and if gsi·hzi results
in comi (see Section 5, Implementing Multiplication for details). If not, ignores
the input. Else, ignores if not all ( { ˆivkk}t
k=1, comI) values provided by t issuers
are the same. Else, computes and outputs K and ˆK. These are group elements
whose exponents are the inverse of multiplication of r and ( isk +s). Finally,
the issuer Issi computes the values ωi = Kri and ˆωi = ˆKri, which are then
transmitted back to the user via the same communication channel from which
the user’s original message was received.
The algorithm run by each issuer Issi is provided in Figure 7.
1. Input: (i) Receive ( Broadcasted, sid || id || I, comI) from FBC,
and (ii) ( Received, sid || id || I, mid, (si,zi,x,π )) from F sas
Ch , and
(iii) (Issue.Ok, sid,xs, I) fromZ where x = (comI,xs).
2. Ignore if: (i) comi̸= gsi·hzi for comi∈ comI or (ii) ( iski, ˆivk) has not
been recorded.
3. Else, call FNIZK with (Verify, sid,x,π ) and receive ( Verification, sid,
b). Ignore if b = 0.
4. Else, randomly sample ri
$
← −Zp.
5. Set auxi← (zi,{ ˆivkk}t
k=1, comI).
6. Call Fmul with ( Compute, sid || id || I,ri, (iski,si), auxi), and receive
(Computed, sid|| id|| I,K, ˆK) from Fmul where K = g(r·(isk+s))−1
and
ˆK = ˆg(r·(isk+s))−1
.
7. Set: ωi←Kri and ˆωi← ˆKri.
8. Output: CallF sas
Ch with (SendBack, sid, mid, (ωi, ˆωi)).
Fig. 7: Threshold issuance – Issi
Upon receiving t messages from t issuers, the user computes their secret keys
by reconstructing shares. Next, the user runs two secret key well-formedness
equality checks. If both equalities hold, the user records their secret keys and

SyRA Signatures 21
outputs the issued message to the environment. Otherwise, it outputs failure.
The algorithm run by P is provided in Figure 8.
1. Upon receiving ( ReceivedBack, sid, Issi, (ωi, ˆωi)) from F sas
Ch and from t
issuers, call:
– ω← −SSH.Aggn,t{ωi}∀i∈index(I)
– ˆω← −SSH.Aggn,t{ˆωi}∀i∈index(I).
2. Set: usk =g1/(s+isk)←ω and ˆusk = ˆg1/(s+isk)← ˆω
3. Ignore and send ( Issue.Failed, sid) toZ if:
e(usk, ˆg)̸=e(g, ˆusk) or e(usk, ˆivk· ˆgs)̸=e(g, ˆg).
4. Else, record ( usk, ˆusk).
5. Output ( Issued, sid) toZ.
Fig. 8: Threshold issuance – P (2nd phase)
Signature generation. To sign messages, partyP is activated byZ with a mes-
sage ( Sign, sid, ctx,m ). P, who has an identity string s, a secret key ( usk, ˆusk)
(derived froms), a context-message pair (ctx,m ), and issuer verification key ivk,
generates a signature σ on (ctx,m ). The signer must prove the well-formedness
of the pseudonym T = e(Z, ˆusk) without revealing their secret key ˆusk. This is
accomplished by encrypting ˆusk under a public group element ˆW . Hence, instead
of proving T = e(Z, ˆusk), they prove e(Z, ˆW )α =e(Z, ˆC2)/T . Additionally, the
signer needs to prove that the encrypted ˆusk is well-formed with respect to the
issuer verification key ivk. To do so, the signer first proves that ˆusk is well-formed
with respect to usk (bye(C2, ˆg)e(g−1, ˆC2)=e(W, ˆg)βe(g−1, ˆW )α, where usk is en-
crypted under a public group elementW ) and then proves the well-formedness of
usk with respect to ivk (by e(C2, ˆivk)e(g−1, ˆg) =e(W, ˆivk)βe(W, ˆg)β·se(C2, ˆg)−s).
Finally, the well-formedness of C1 and ˆC1 is proven. The algorithm run by P is
provided in Figure 9.
1. Input: Upon receiving ( Sign, sid, ctx,m ) fromZ, act as follows.
2. Ignore if ( ivk, usk, ˆusk) has not been recorded. Else, proceed as follows.
3. Call FRO with ( Query, sid, ctx) and receive ( Query.Re, sid,Z ). Compute
T←e(Z, ˆusk).
4. Pick (β,α )
$
← −Z∗
p. Parse ivk = (bp, ˆivk,h,W, ˆW ). Compute:
(a) C = (C1,C 2)← (gβ,W β· usk)
(b) ˆC = ( ˆC1, ˆC2)← (ˆgα, ˆWα· ˆusk)
5. Set NIZK statement x← (Z,C, ˆC,T, ivk, ctx,m ).
6. Set NIZK witness w← (s,α,β ).
7. Call FNIZK with (Prove, sid,x,w ) for the following relation R(x,w ):
(a) e(Z, ˆW )α =e(Z, ˆC2)/T
(b) e(C2, ˆg)e(g−1, ˆC2)=e(W, ˆg)βe(g−1, ˆW )α

22 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
(c) e(C2, ˆivk)e(g−1, ˆg)=e(W, ˆivk)βe(W, ˆg)β·se(C2, ˆg)−s
(d) C1 =gβ
(e) ˆC1 = ˆgα
8. Upon receiving ( Proof, sid,π ) fromFNIZK, set signature σ← (π,x ).
9. Output: Output (Signature, sid, ctx,m,σ ) toZ.
Fig. 9: Signature generation – P
Verification.The verifier V is activated upon receiving a message (Ver, sid, ivk′,
ctx,m,σ ) from Z that includes the issuer verification key ivk′, the context-
message pair ( ctx,m ), and the signature σ. The signature is verified and the
associated pseudonymT is extracted. The algorithm run by V is provided in Fig-
ure 10.
1. Input: Upon receiving ( Ver, sid, ivk′, ctx,m,σ ) fromZ, act as follows.
2. Parse σ = (π,x ) and x = (Z,C, ˆC,T, ivk, ctx,m ).
3. Set b← 0 and η←⊥ if:
– ivk̸= ivk′; or
– upon callingFRO with (Query, sid, ctx), (Query.Re, sid,Z′) is returned
where Z′̸=Z; or
– upon callingFNIZK with (Verify, sid,x,π ), (Verification, sid, 0) is
returned.
4. Else, set b← 1 and η←T .
5. Output: Output (Ver.End, sid, ivk′, ctx,m,σ,η,b ) toZ.
Fig. 10: Verification – V
5 Implementation details and SyRA performance
Implementing non-interactive zero-knowledge (NIZK) proofs. In our
signature framework, the relationR(x,w ) that is proven by the signer in signa-
ture generation algorithm (Figure 9) is expressed as a set of algebraic discrete
logarithm equations. Sigma protocols excel in prover efficiency when applied to
such algebraic statements compared to zk-SNARKs [Groth(2010)]. Sigma pro-
tocols result in concise proof sizes, involve a limited number of operations, and
do not necessitate the creation of a trusted common reference string [Guillou
and Quisquater(1988), Schnorr(1991)]. This observation is particularly relevant
in our system, where proof generation for algebraic statements could mainly
depend on individuals with limited computational resources.

SyRA Signatures 23
In the following, the prover and the verifier are denoted by Prv and Vrf, respec-
tively. Prv proves the relationR(x,w ) described in Figure 9. Let us define:
A :=e(Z, ˆW ), B := e(Z, ˆC2)
T , Γ :=e(C2, ˆg)e(g−1, ˆC2),
∆ :=e(W, ˆg), E :=e(g−1, ˆW ), Λ :=e(C2, ˆivk)e(g−1, ˆg),
M :=e(W, ˆivk), Θ :=e(C2, ˆg−1).
Hence, the relation R(x,w ) is simplified to the following one: (a) Aα = B,
(b) Γ = ∆βEα, (c) Λ = Mβ∆β·sΘs, (d) C1 = gβ, (e) ˆC1 = ˆgα where bases
(A,B,Γ,∆,E,Λ,M,Θ ) are target group elements that can be efficiently com-
puted by the verifier Vrf using the statement x = (Z,C, ˆC,T, ivk). Moreover, all
source group elements (C1, ˆC1,g, ˆg) are known to Vrf.
Therefore, the relationR(x,w ) can be implemented through a proof of knowledge
of discrete logarithms for items (a), (b), (d), and (e) above, and via a proof of
a multiplicative relation for exponents for item (c) above. Below, we describe
these relations and the methods for their implementation. These are interactive
proofs that can be transformed into non-interactive proofs using the Fiat-Shamir
transformation [Fiat and Shamir(1987)]. 14 15
Proof of knowledge of discrete logarithm (R(x,w ) ⇔ y = gx, x =
(y,g ), w=x)
1. Prv: select θ
$
← −Z∗
q, compute a←gθ, and send a to Vrf.
2. Vrf: select c
$
← −Zq and send c to Prv.
3. Prv: compute z =θ +cx modq and send z to Vrf.
4. Vrf: check if a
?
=gzy−c. Accept if true.
Proof of multiplicative relation for exponents
– x = (g,h,A 1,A 2,A 3), and w = (a1,a 2,a 3,r 1,r 2,r 3).
– R(x,w ):A1 =ga1hr1∧A2 =ga2hr2∧A3 =ga3hr3 =ga1a2hr3∧A3 =Aa2
1 hr
such that r +r1a2 =r3 modq.
1. Prv: for i = 1, 2, 3, select θi,Ri
$
← −Zq and compute vi = gθihRi, v = Aθ2
1 hR
for R
$
← −Zq. Send ({vi},v ) for i = 1, 2, 3 to Vrf.
2. Vrf: choose c
$
← −Z2k (where 2k <q ) and send c to Prv.
3. Prv: compute si =θi−cai, ti =Ri−cri, t =R−cr for i = 1, 2, 3. Send the
tuple (si,ti) for i = 1, 2, 3 and t to Vrf.
14 The context-message pair (ctx,m ), which is part of the NIZK statement, is included
in the Fiat-Shamir hash function computation by both the signer and the verifier.
This has been abstracted away by FNIZK.
15 Note that to realize FNIZK, Fischlin’s transform [Kondi and abhi shelat(2022)] can be
employed, as in [Lysyanskaya and Rosenbloom(2022)]. Alternatively, one can con-
struct a simulation-extractable zero-knowledge proof from a simulation-sound zero-
knowledge proof and a CPA-secure encryption scheme, as in [Damg˚ ard et al.(2021)].

24 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
4. Vrf: check if vi
?
= Ac
igsihti for i = 1, 2, 3 and v
?
= Ac
3As2
1 ht. Accept if all
equations hold.
Implementing multiplication. There are well-known techniques for realiz-
ing multiplication via multiparty computation (MPC). In our implementation,
we adopt the multiplication in the exponent protocol proposed by Doerner et
al. [Doerner et al.(2023)] for Threshold BBS+ signatures. See Appendix B.5
for more details on [Doerner et al.(2023)]. Their multi-party protocol at its
core utilizes a two-party multiplication method, which is a two-round proto-
col based on Oblivious Transfer (OT) [Even et al.(1985)]. Since the protocol is
built upon OT, it can be instantiated from various cryptographic assumptions,
such as the hardness of the computational Diffie-Hellman problem. Note that
one could alternatively employ the OT-based multiplier of Haitner et al. [Hait-
ner et al.(2022)], which performs numerous scalar operations over elliptic curves
per invocation. However, this approach may introduce a computational bottle-
neck [Doerner et al.(2023)]. The two-party multiplication between Iss1 and Iss2
proceeds as follows. LetF denote a functionality. Then: (i) Iss1 submits its input
a∈ Zp toF; (ii)F samplesc
$
← −Zp uniformly at random, stores (a,c ), and sends
(Iss1,c ) to Iss2; (iii) Iss2 submits its input b∈ Zp toF; and (iv) F computes
d←a·b−c mod q and returns d to Iss1. This is commonly known as Oblivious
Linear Evaluation (OLE).
Our multi-party multiplication protocol is executed among t servers, each hold-
ing shares of variable ai, a vector of two variables ⃗bi = (b(1)
i ,b (2)
i ), and some
auxiliary information auxi required to check the well-formedness of bi. The out-
put to all servers is the inverse of the multiplication of first two values in the
exponent: g(a·b)−1
, where b = (b(1) +b(2)). We define Fmul (Appendix B.5) as
an augmentation to the protocol of [Doerner et al.(2023)], introducing a well-
formedness check for⃗bi = (iski,si) using auxi = (zi,{ ˆivkk}t
k=1, comI). The func-
tionality checks if: (i) iski∈⃗bi is the associated secret key of ˆivki∈{ ˆivkk}t
k=1,
(ii) si∈⃗bi is the committed value in comi∈ comI, and (iii) if all issuers are
providing the same vectors of public keys and commitments. This enhancement
to [Doerner et al.(2023)] is straightforward to realize, as the well-formedness
proof is algebraic, and the witness resides in the exponent space, where the base
elements are public and known to all .
Implementing distributed key generation (DKG). In our formal modeling,
we employ the t-out-of-n distributed key generation (DKG) ideal functionality
Fn,t
DKG in [Doerner et al.(2023), Katz(2024)]. In [Katz(2024)], Katz presents a
series of two-round DKGs that securely realize Fn,t
DKG and result in a uniform,
unbiasable joint public key and guaranteed output delivery. These constructions
rely on a broadcast channel, a synchronous network, and an honest majority
tc < n/2, where tc is the number of corrupt parties. A number of other widely
deployed [Dfns(2024), Fedimint(2024), Cothority(2024), Labs(2024)], efficient,
UC-secure DKGs [Gennaro et al.(2007), Canetti et al.(2020)] are suitable for
integration with SyRA signatures to generate issuer keys, with the Gennaro et

SyRA Signatures 25
al. DKG [Gennaro et al.(2007)] also achieving full simulatability and G.O.D. in
the formalism of [Katz(2024)].
5.1 Performance evaluation
The performance evaluation of SyRA was conducted on a MacBook Pro M3
Max featuring a 16-core CPU and 48 GB of RAM, running macOS 15.1, and
written in the Rust (v. 1.83). In our evaluations, we used the BLS12-381 elliptic
curve [Company(2024)]. The system’s performance metrics encompass phases of
the threshold issuance protocol, signature generation, and verification.
Threshold issuance performance. The performance of the issuance protocol
was evaluated under various configurations of threshold parameters, capturing
issuer sets of varying sizes. The threshold for secret key reconstruction by the
user was set to n/2. In this evaluation, issuers engaged in pairwise multiplica-
tive operations. Figure 11 illustrates the performance of the threshold issuance
protocol. The performance metrics presented in the diagram reflect the median
times recorded after conducting 10 iterations for each configuration. The figure
depicts the execution times for the threshold issuance protocol among issuers
and share aggregation via the user across various configurations of issuer sets
n and the required shares for aggregation t = n/2. These results are presented
within an honest majority setting, where the adversary is assumed to corrupt at
most tc =n/2− 1 participants. The x-axis represents issuer set configurations,
while the y-axes denote time: milliseconds (blue, left) for the share aggregation,
and seconds (red, right) for the threshold issuance.
Performance metrics for signature. The performance metrics for the signa-
ture scheme, including generation time, verification time, and signature size, are
summarized in Table 1. Note that some of the target group elements in the sig-
nature generation phase can be precomputed once and reused, further improving
efficiency.
Metric V alue
Signature generation time 10.42 ms
Signature verification time 11.24 ms
Signature size 5.703 KB
T able 1: Performance metrics for SASSI.
6 Deployment considerations and applications
In this section, we discuss deployment considerations and applications for SyRA
signatures. In particular, we describe how recovery of keys can be handled, how

26 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
5–10 15–30 30–60 50–100 70–140 150–300
1.1
1.15
1.2
1.25
1.3
1.08 ms
1.11 ms 1.11 ms
1.16 ms
1.18 ms
1.29 ms
Number of shares required for aggregation – Total number of issuers
(Time) [ms]
Aggregation (P)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
0.0651 s 0.680 s
2.825 s
8.03 s
15.73 s
72.6 s
Time [s]
Threshold issuance ( Iss)
Fig. 11: Threshold issuance performance
the personhood relation may be realized in an actual deployment, how we can
combine revocation and attribute-based credentials with SyRA, and how SyRA
signatures can be used to solve various use cases, such as e-voting, privacy-
preserving compliance, cryptocurrency airdrops, and peer DIDs.
Key recovery. Sybil resilience may complicate key recovery since a Sybil at-
tacker can pretend that they have lost their key in order to be reissued a cre-
dential and break Sybil resilience. Various approaches have been suggested to
mitigate this attack strategy in prior work, e.g., the key can be revoked using
a credential revocation mechanism, e.g., [Baldimtsi et al.(2017)], and only then
the user is reissued its new credential. Alternatively, the system can store the
key information separately in a distributed fashion to facilitate key recovery di-
rectly, cf. [Maram et al.(2021)]. Our construction approach offers a strikingly
simpler key recovery mechanism: A user simply reruns the issuing protocol with
the issuers to recover their key, which is always the same for a given identity s.
Hence, the system prevents a malicious user who attempts to reissue a DID as
part of an attack that evades the system’s abuse mitigation mechanisms.
Realizing personhood. One way to provide proof of personhood in our system
is to use an oracle system like DECO [Zhang et al.(2020)] (or Town Crier [Zhang
et al.(2016)]) that ensures data privacy and remains compatible with legacy sys-
tems without requiring alterations to data sources. DECO functions as a three-

SyRA Signatures 27
party protocol involving a prover, a verifier, and a TLS server. Its purpose is
to enable the prover to convince the verifier that a piece of data, which may
potentially be private to the prover, retrieved from the server satisfies a specific
predicate using zero-knowledge proofs without server-side modifications. In our
specific context, the DECO verifier can either be the issuers themselves or par-
ties designated as trustworthy by the issuers. Using this approach for personhood
would require identifying a piece of information that is unique to individuals and
possible to verify against a web service, for instance, a social security number
(SSN) and a government web-site that includes the SSN as part of a TLS en-
crypted interaction. Another approach to establishing personhood is using bio-
metric data — a recent embodiment of this idea that gained some traction is
Worldcoin [Worldcoin(2023)]. It utilizes a biometric device that reads the iris of
an individual and records information that can be used to subsequently prove
the user’s identity.
Another approach to realizing personhood, highlighted in [Baldimtsi
et al.(2024)], is based on the OAuth 2.0 protocol through identity providers
such as Google or Apple. Specifically, OpenID Connect [Sakimura et al.(2014)],
an identity layer built on top of the OAuth 2.0 protocol, provides an ID To-
ken in the form of a signed JSON Web Token (JWT), which contains key user
information, such as a unique user identifier ( sub) and the issuer ( iss). sub
provided by the OAuth provider could serve as the unique identifiers in our set-
ting, where the user runs the protocol with the OAuth provider and the SyRA
issuer. The JWT is used to authenticate the user personhood with each SyRA
issuer participating in the issuance protocol. This can be achieved by verifying
the JWT’s signature using the OAuth provider’s public key. Since JWTs may
contain sensitive personal information, zero-knowledge proofs can be employed
to conceal such details while still demonstrating the validity of the JWT.
Revocation.Incorporating revocation comprehensively with SyRA signatures is
out of scope of this paper and an interesting direction for future work. Never-
theless, we outline here an initial set of ideas to illustrate how it is possible to
add credential revocation in different scenarios. A simple method to incorporate
revocation is by exploiting the secret key component ˆusk and utilize it in the
context of a revocation list. Specifically, a revocation authority can maintain a
list of ˆusk values associated with the identity strings and disclose publicly those
that need to form the revocation list; alternatively, the issuers can reconstruct
ˆusk on the spot given the identity string s of the user that should be revoked.
Using this list, a verifier can locally compute Trev = e(h(ctx), ˆusk) for each an-
nounced ˆusk. Given this, the verifier can ignore all signatures withT′ values such
thatT′ =Trev. Note that despite disclosing ˆusk, no one can sign on behalf of the
associated user, as the signature σ = (x,π ) is a NIZK proof whose generation
necessarily requires a witness for the relation R(x,w ) = 1 from Section 4. This
means signature generation also requires usk, which cannot be derived from ˆusk
because SyRA relies on Type-III (asymmetric) bilinear groups. In this way, by
efficiently revealing only one group element, ˆusk, it is possible for verifiers to
identify all signatures of the revoked user upon receiving their signatures.

28 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
The above mechanism requires revealing ˆusk. In case the user’s SyRA key is
compromised, the user can provide s to the issuers along with the relevant proof
of ownership of s, so that the issuers compute ˆusk. In this setting, the affected
user would have to update their identity string s with a new one from the
identity provider that is acknowledged by the personhood relation Rs (e.g., be
issued a new social security number). Note that the identity provider needs to
check that the old identity string has indeed been revoked. Furthermore, this
will not provide forward security, at least in a non-interactive manner, since
revealing the ˆusk value of a user will link all its past pseudonyms. (Note that
alternatively, verifiers could, in principle, run a multiparty protocol with issuers
to check if an identity has been revoked instead of using ˆusk, but this is not a
practical solution). Adding forward security to this revocation mechanism is an
interesting direction for future work.
Identity attributes. SyRA signatures can be combined with anonymous
attribute-based credentials to demonstrate user attributes in a privacy-
preserving way while maintaining resilience against Sybil attacks. The approach
is simple: users will obtain keys for both SyRA and anonymous attribute-based
credentials. This allows subsequently to engage in attribute-based identification
with each transcript signed using SyRA for the context requested by the veri-
fier. While simple and effective, the above approach may be further improved in
terms of efficiency by investigating a concrete design for attribute-based SyRA
signatures; we leave this question for future work.
6.1 Applications
e-Voting and e-Petitions. There are many online services that require strict
single access per ID, such as e-voting. SyRA enables verifiers to cluster all signa-
tures with respect to their pseudonymsT for each context. Sybil resilience means
that a user can create at most one pseudonym T per context. For instance, in e-
voting or e-petitions [Diaz et al.(2008)], the election procedure identifier would
be used to determine the context, and the choice of the voter would be the
message. The user can sign multiple times for the same identifier (as is needed
in many election schemes for coercion protection, for instance [Volkamer and
Grimm(2006)]), and then the system can choose the latest “message.” (Recall
that all signatures of the user share the same T value.)
Privacy-preserving regulatory compliance. In the context of regulatory
compliance, SyRA signatures provide a mechanism for verifying identities with-
out exposing sensitive information. This capability is particularly relevant for
financial institutions and other regulated entities that need to adhere to KYC
(Know Your Customer), AML (Anti Money Laundering), and CFT (Combating
Financing Terrorism) regulations. For example, a recipient may be asked to sign
a transaction using SyRA to verify that they are not identified as a terrorist ac-
cording to a list of terrorist identity strings. Such a list could be prepared by the
issuers for a specific context of interest by calculating all the relevant T -values;
note that this also maintains the privacy of the list itself. Adding this requirement

SyRA Signatures 29
to the user’s workflow would ensure compliance with CFT regulations while en-
abling the recipient to receive funds without disclosing their identity. Similarly,
the sender of a transaction can be required to provide a SyRA signature on the
transaction to prove that they are not associated with any revoked entities listed
in AML regulations, enabling them to send funds. SyRA signatures can also be
used to facilitate AML/CFT checks in anonymous payment systems like [Sasson
et al.(2014), Kiayias et al.(2022), Fauzi et al.(2019), B¨ unz et al.(2020), Sarencheh
et al.(2025b), Sarencheh et al.(2025a)] following the mechanism described above,
offering a privacy-preserving, yet compliant, solution for these platforms.
Cryptocurrency airdrops. In a cryptocurrency airdrop, a user is set to receive
a certain amount of cryptocurrency. The user generates an address A; utilizing
SyRA signatures, they can use the name of the airdrop event as the context and
the address A as the message to be signed. The primitive enables the user to
sign multiple addresses if needed or perform various actions in the context of
one specific airdrop. Note that if a user signs the same context twice, those two
signatures are linkable (they have the same T ), however still, the privacy of the
user’s real-world identifier s is preserved and the user cannot be linked if they
participate in multiple airdrops. Our mechanism enables the airdrop provider
to write policies such as “each user receives exactly X coins,” with the Sybil
resilient property of SyRA being the enforcer of this property. 16
Peer DID Decentralized identifiers are often anchored to a public source of
truth, such as a blockchain. While this ensures the security and immutability
of transactions, it allows arbitrary parties to resolve users’ DIDs (i.e., obtain
their DID documents). Users in a DID system should control every aspect of the
use of their digital identity, including the ability to interact with other people,
institutions, and organizations in a private manner. One solution, put forth by
the Decentralized Identity Foundation [Foundation(2023)], is Peer DID17, which
moves the resolution of DIDs to local, peer-to-peer interactions off chain. In this
system, a user Alice can create a pairwise DID for each interaction with a differ-
ent user or organization. For example, Alice may interact with her doctor, bank,
etc. using these context-specific “credentials.” Our SyRA signatures are directly
applicable here, as Alice can create pairwise DIDs from her master credential,
which is tied to her real-world identity, via context-specific pseudonyms. The
security properties of SyRA signatures ensure that Alice’s identity is protected,
and her interactions are unlinkable across all contexts in which she engages,
while Sybil resilience protects the verifiers from interacting with multiple users
controlled by Alice.
16 As an example of the relevance of our approach to practice, consider that in the
Arbitrum airdrop, around 253 million Arbitrum tokens, 21 .8% of all tokens, were
acquired by Sybil accounts [X-explore(2023)].
17 https://identity.foundation/peer-did-method-spec/index.html

30 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
7 Security proof
In this section, we state our main theorem regarding the security of our protocol
ΠSASSI (Section 4). Our functionality FSyRA, defined in Section 3, is general
and allows for adaptive corruptions; however, we prove our scheme secure in
the static corruption model. Concretely, this corresponds to ∪s ˆP(s) =∅ in our
functionality, and thus the Leak interface is always inactive.
Theorem 2. Letqt be an upper bound on the number of signatures of all honest
parties and let qh be an upper bound on the number of queries the adversary can
make to the random oracle. Under the IND-CPA security of ElGamal encryption,
the pseudorandomness of our asymmetric Dodis-Yampolsky VRF ( DY-VRF†),
binding property of Pedersen commitments, and the DDH assumption, in the
{FNIZK,FRO,F sas
Ch,FB,Fn,t
DKG,Fmul}-hybrid model, no PPT environment Z with
static corruptions of up to t− 1 issuers can distinguish the real-world execu-
tion EXECΠSASSI,A,Z from the ideal-world execution EXECFSyRA,S,Z in the pres-
ence of an arbitrary number of corrupted signers and verifiers that are all col-
luding with advantage greater than Advbind
A,COM(λ)+2qt· AdvIND-CPA
A (λ) + (qt + 1)·
Advpseudo
A,DY-VRF†(λ) +qt·qh· AdvDDH
A (λ).
We now prove Theorem 2.
7.1 Simulation
We refer to the real-world protocol as ΠSASSI and the adversary asA. The sim-
ulatorS is described in detail below. It ensures that the view of the real-world
execution EXECΠSASSI,A,Z and the ideal-world execution EXECFSyRA,S,Z are indis-
tinguishable for any PPT environment Z. The session identifier sid is selected
by the environmentZ. Our general proof strategy is for the simulator S to in-
ternally run an instance of ΠSASSI and the real-world adversary A, except that
S simulates the behaviour of honest users. The purpose of the simulator S is
to ensure that the view of the internally-run adversary A (in the ideal world)
cannot be distinguished from the view of the real-world adversaryA.S instructs
the functionality to provide indistinguishable outputs at the interfaces of honest
users.
The adversaryA has the authority to instruct corrupted parties in an arbitrary
manner, and the simulator S engages in interactions with FSyRA on behalf of
these corrupted parties. In the ideal-world execution EXECFSyRA,S,Z, the honest
(dummy) parties transmit their inputs from the environmentZ directly toFSyRA.
We define a simulator S that reproduces the real-world view of the adversary
A and simulates the actions of honest parties during the execution. The sim-
ulatorS engages in interactions with both the dummy adversary A and the
functionalityFSyRA. Similar to the functionality FSyRA and our protocol ΠSASSI
for realizing it, the simulator’s details are described in four parts: Key genera-
tion, Threshold issuance, Signature generation, and Verification. As∪s ˆP(s) =∅,
we do not consider the Leak signatures interface (( Leaked.Sig, sid, ivk,⊥) is

SyRA Signatures 31
always sent to the simulator). The simulator S emulates the functionalities
FNIZK,FRO,F sas
Ch,FB,Fn,t
DKG andFmul. To achieve this, it must maintain specific
lists associated with each functionality. However, for the sake of simplicity and
without loss of generality, we assume that S keeps track of the states of these
functionalities, but we do not explicitly discuss or address all these lists in detail.
Without loss of generality, we assume in the following that the adversary corrupts
t− 1 issuers.
The simulatorS maintains the following lists and sets, which are initialized to
∅:
– LCR: list of corrupted-registered parties (who have been issued signing keys)
– Scorrupted: set of s values of corrupted parties
– LSS: list of simulated signatures (by the simulator S)
– C : index set denoting the issuers corrupted by the adversary A where|C| =
t− 1. We denote a malicious issuer by Iss∗.
Corruptions. At the beginning of the execution, the environment Z instructs
the adversary A to corrupt specific parties by sending messages of the form
(Corrupt, sid, P), where P denotes a party identifier. All signers and verifiers, as
well as up tot−1 issuers from the issuer setI can be corrupted. The simulatorS
observes these corruption messages and forwards them to FSyRA using the same
format, (Corrupt, sid, P), to indicate which parties have been corrupted.
Simulation of key generation
adversary corrupting t− 1 issuers:
– For honest issuers ( Issi): upon receiving ( Init, sid, Issi) fromFSyRA, simulate
the honest issuer by executing the algorithm provided in Figure 5. Emulating
Fn,t
DKG update the state of Fn,t
DKG, and leak ( DKeyGenReq, sid, Issi) toA.
– For malicious issuers ( Iss∗
i ): upon invoking Fn,t
DKG with ( DKeyGen, sid) via the
adversary, emulateFn,t
DKG and update its state accordingly.
– EmulatingFn,t
DKG, upon receiving (CPoints, sid,{isk∗
i}i∈C) from the adversary,
proceed as follows if ( DKeyGen, sid) has been recorded for all issuers Issi∈I
(including the honest emulated ones).
– CallFSyRA with (Init, sid) on behalf of all malicious issuers Iss∗
i , wherei∈ C.
– Output ( PublicKeys, sid, ˆivk,{ ˆivki}n
i=1) to the adversary as the output of
Fn,t
DKG.
– Output (Point, sid, ˆivk, isk∗
i,{ ˆivki}n
i=1) to the adversary for each malicious is-
suer Iss∗
i , where i∈ C.
– Output (VerKey, sid, ( ˆivki, ˆivk)) toFSyRA for each issuer Issi∈I .
Simulation of threshold issuance
Recall, as discussed earlier, that without loss of generality, we assume the
adversary corrupts t− 1 issuers. We index the malicious issuers from 1 to t− 1,
and denote the associated set as C. The honest issuer in the set of t issuers (I)
is denoted by Isst.
(i) honest party P and t− 1 malicious issuers:

32 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
– Upon receiving ( Issue, sid, id,T ) fromFSyRA, whereT = (xs, I), start emu-
lating an honest party and the honest issuer Isst∈ I.
– Choose a random s and compute{si}n
i=1
$
← −SSH.Sharen,t(s).
– Choose a fresh identifier id.
– ∀i∈ index(I): set comi←gsi·hzi for zi
$
← −Z∗
p.
– Set comI←{ comi}∀i∈index(I).
– EmulatingFBC, broadcast ( Broadcast, sid|| id|| I, comI).
– Set x← (comI,xs) using xs∈T received fromFSyRA.
– EmulatingFNIZK, compute π← SimProve(x) and store (x,π ).
– EmulatingF sas
Ch , for each Issi∈ I, leak ( Send, sid|| id|| I, Issi, mid,|m|) to the
dummyA, where m = (si,zi,x,π ).
– Emulating F sas
Ch , upon receiving ( Ok, sid || id || I, mid) from A, output
(Received, sid|| id|| I, mid, (si,zi,x,π )) to the adversary for each malicious
issuer Issj∈ I,j ∈ C.
– Upon receiving a call from the adversary of the form ( Verify, sid,x,π ), em-
ulateFNIZK and output ( Verification, sid, 1).
– Emulating the honest issuer Isst ∈ I, sample rt
$
← −Zp, and set auxt ←
(zt,{ ˆivkk}t
k=1, comI).
– EmulatingFmul update its state.
– EmulatingFmul, after receiving messages from all malicious issuers Issj ∈
I,j ∈ C of the form ( Compute, sid || id || I,rj, (iskj,sj), auxj), leak
(Compute, sid,α, I) to the adversary for a randomly chosen α.
– EmulatingFmul, upon receiving ( Compute.Ok, sid,α ) from the adversary A,
output ( Computed, sid,K, ˆK) to each malicious issuer Issj∈ I,j ∈ C (where
K and ˆK have been computed following the functionality of Fmul).
– Emulating the honest issuer Isst∈ I, leak (SendBack, sid|| id|| I, Isst, mid,|m|)
to the dummy A, where |m| is size of two group elements from two source
groups.
– For each malicious issuer Issj ∈ I,j ∈ C, leak ( SendBack, sid|| id|| I, Issj,
mid,|m|) to the dummy A whenever the adversary (on behalf of malicious
issuer) callsF sas
Ch with (SendBack, sid, mid, (ωj, ˆωj)).
– Execute the honest party P algorithm provided in Figure 8. If either
e(usk, ˆg)̸= e(g, ˆusk) or e(usk, ˆivk· ˆgs)̸= e(g, ˆg), set b← 0. Otherwise, set
b← 1.
– Submit (Issue,b, sid, id) toFSyRA.
(ii) malicious party P and t− 1 malicious issuers: We intentionally avoid
describing the communication channel F sas
Ch leakage regarding malicious issuers
as it is similar to the case above.
– Emulating F sas
Ch , receive ( Send, sid || id || I, Isst, (si,zi,x,π )) whenever
the adversary (on behalf of a malicious user P) calls F sas
Ch and leak
(Send, sid || id || I, Isst, mid,|m|) to the dummy A where m = ( si,zi,x,
π). Upon receiving ( Ok, sid|| id|| I, mid) from A, emulating the honest is-
suer Isst (who verifies the proof in the real-world) and emulating FNIZK,
extract the adversary’s witness by running w← Extract(x,π ), where w =

SyRA Signatures 33
(s,ws,{sj}n
j=1,{zi}∀i∈index(I)). Check if (x,w )∈R holds. If it does not hold,
emulating honest issuer Isst abort.
EmulatingFBC, upon receiving ( Broadcasted, sid|| id|| I, comI), set c← 1
that is initially c = 0 if condition (2) in Figure 7 are satisfied.
– Emulating the honest issuer Isst ∈ I, sample rt
$
← −Zp and set auxt ←
(zt,{ ˆivkk}t
k=1, comI).
– Following the real-world algorithm for honest issuer update the state ofFmul.
– EmulatingFmul, after receiving messages from all malicious issuers Issj ∈
I,j ∈ C of the form ( Compute, sid|| id|| I,rj, (iskj,sj), auxj), and if c = 1,
leak (Compute, sid,α, I) to the adversary for a randomly chosen α.
– EmulatingFmul, upon receiving ( Compute.Ok, sid,α ) from the adversary A,
output ( Computed, sid,K, ˆK) to each malicious issuer Issj∈ I,j ∈ C (where
K and ˆK have been computed following the functionality of Fmul).
– Submit (Issue, sid,s,x s,ws, I∗) on behalf of the malicious party P toFSyRA,
where xs is retrieved from xi = (si,xs) and I∗ ={Issj}j∈C∪{ Isst}.
– Compute{ωj}j∈C←K{rj}j∈C and{ˆωj}j∈C← ˆK{rj}j∈C.
– Execute the algorithm provided in Figure 8. If either e(usk, ˆg)̸=e(g, ˆusk) or
e(usk, ˆivk· ˆgs)̸=e(g, ˆg), set b← 0. Otherwise, set b← 1.
– Submit ( Issue,b, sid, id) to FSyRA. upon receiving ( Issue, sid, id,T ) from
FSyRA.
Simulation of signature generation
(i) honest Party P:
– Receive (Sign, sid, ucid, ctx,m, tid) fromFSyRA.
– EmulateFRO and retrieve Z.
– If an entry (ucid′,T′) exists where ucid′ = ucid, set T←T′. Otherwise, select
T
$
← −GT , and record ( ucid,T ).
– Select (β,α )
$
← −Z∗
p, choose A
$
← −G, and ˆB
$
← −ˆG.
– Compute C← (gβ,W β·A), and ˆC← (ˆgα, ˆWα· ˆB).
– Emulate FNIZK and execute π ← SimProve(x) where x =
(Z,C, ˆC,T, ivk, ctx,m ), and record the pair (π,x ).
– Set σ← (π,x ) and updateLSS←L SS∪{σ}.
– Submit (Signature, sid,σ,T,s ∗, tid) toFSyRA, where s∗ = 0.
(ii) corrupted party P: Output to the environmentZ whatever is produced in-
ternally byA. Note that submitting a signature generation instruction toFSyRA,
on behalf of a corrupted P viaS, occurs later, whenS, who emulates an honest
verifier V, receives a (valid) signature generated by a corrupted party.
It is important to note that a corrupted party may locally compute signatures.
However, as long as no honest verifier has encountered any of these signatures,
there is no need for any security guarantees to be invoked. In other words, as will
be demonstrated, onceZ submits a valid signature for verification, the simulator
first checks whether the signature has already been simulated. If the signature

34 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
has not been simulated and is valid, the simulator should register it with the
ideal functionalityFSyRA (thus recording it in the set Sig byFSyRA). However, if
Z has not submitted the signature, no further action is necessary.
Simulation of verification
(i) honest verifier V:
– Receive ( Ver, sid, ivk′, ctx,m,σ ) from FSyRA. If there exists an entry
(Ver.Ok, sid, ivk′, ctx,m,σ,T,θ ), submit it to FSyRA.
– Else, submit ( Ver.Ok, sid, ivk′, ctx,m,σ,⊥, 0) toFSyRA and record it if ivk′̸=
ivk. Else, act as follows:
– If there exists σ′∈L SS where σ′ = σ, parse σ = (π,x ) and x = (Z,C, ˆC,T,
ivk, ctx,m ). Submit ( Ver.Ok, sid, ivk′, ctx,m,σ,T, 1) toFSyRA and record it.
– Else (σ /∈L SS), act as follows:
• Parse σ = (π,x ) and x = (Z,C, ˆC,T, ivk, ctx,m ). If in emulating FRO
the recorded entry for context ctx is ( sid, ctx,h ) where h̸= Z, submit
(Ver.Ok, sid, ivk′, ctx,m,σ,⊥, 0) toFSyRA and record it.
• Else, let w← Extract(x,π ) and check (x,w )∈R and if the relation does
not hold, submit ( Ver.Ok, sid, ivk′, ctx,m,σ,⊥, 0) toFSyRA and record it.
• Else, parse w = (s,α,β ).
∗ If s ∈ Scorrupted, submit ( Sign, sid, ctx,m ) to FSyRA on behalf of P
where P∈L CR holds. (If there exist multiple such P values, pick one
at random.)
Upon receiving ( Sign, sid, ucid, ctx,m, tid) from FSyRA, parse σ =
(π,x ) and x = (Z,C, ˆC,T, ivk, ctx,m ), and submit ( Signature, sid,
σ,T,s, tid).
Finally, output ( Ver.Ok, sid, ivk′, ctx,m,σ,T, 1) to FSyRA and record
it.
∗ Else, the simulation fails. We later show that the probability of A
forging a valid signature on behalf of an honest party, or generating a
valid signature for a new party that never existed before, is negligible.
Also, consider the following two bad events: for every two signatures
σ1 and σ2 with associated T1 and T2, (1) If T1 =T2 and s1̸=s2, or
(2) If T1̸=T2, and s1 =s2. We will show that the probability of the
these bad events is zero.
(ii) corrupted verifier V: Output toZ whateverA outputs.
7.2 Sequence of games and reductions
In a series of games, we demonstrate that the two random variables
EXECΠSASSI,A,Z and EXECFSyRA,S,Z are statistically close. We use the notation
Pr[Game(i)(λ) = 1] to represent the likelihood that the environmentZ produces
an outcome of 1 in Game(i). Each specific game Game(i) is associated with its
own ideal functionalityF (i)
SyRA and simulatorS (i). We begin with the least secure

SyRA Signatures 35
(most leaky) functionalityF (0)
SyRA and corresponding simulatorS (0), and progres-
sively move towards our primary functionalityFSyRA and primary simulatorS.
Letqt denote the upper bound on the number of signatures of all honest parties
and let qh denote the upper bound on the number of queries the adversary can
make to the random oracle, which are both polynomial in the security parameter
λ.
Summary of games. First, we provide an overview of six distinct games
Game(0),..., Game(6), where Game(0) corresponds to the real-world execu-
tion EXECΠSASSI,A,Z and Game(6) corresponds to the ideal-world execution
EXECFSyRA,S,Z.
Game(1): Same as Game(0), except that Game(1) additionally checks whether a
flag is raised. The flag is raised when the adversaryA outputs two commitments
com∈ x and com′∈ x′ where com = com′ but for different committed values
s̸=s′. Any difference between Game(0) and Game(1) arises from a violation of the
binding property of the underlying Pedersen commitment scheme. Accordingly,
the distinguishing advantage ofZ between Game(0) and Game(1) can be bounded
by:| Pr
h
Game(1)(λ) = 1
i
− Pr
h
Game(0)(λ) = 1
i
|≤ Advbind
A,COM(λ).
Game(2): All secret key pairs ( usk, ˆusk) of honest parties with corresponding
ElGamal ciphertexts (C, ˆC) are changed to ( A, ˆB), where A
$
← −G, ˆB
$
← −ˆG. All
values T = e(Z, ˆusk) remain the same, and all qt signatures are with respect
to (A, ˆB). Thus, under the IND-CPA security of ElGamal encryption, we show:
| Pr[Game(2)(λ) = 1]− Pr[Game(0)(λ) = 1]|≤ 2qt· AdvIND-CPA
A (λ).
Game(3): All pseudonyms T = e(Z, ˆusk) of honest parties are changed T =
e(Z, ˆD), where ˆD
$
← −ˆG, and all qt signatures are computed with these values.
Note that in this game, the simulator consistently employs an identical random
group element ˆD for a given identity string s holder. In the reduction to the
pseudorandomness of DY-VRF†, the reduction uses the pseudo-random values
received from theOSign oracle of the challenger as the secret keys for malicious
users, and uses the real or random output ofOChal to generate the pseudonym of
an honest user, while faking the NIZK proof by emulating FNIZK. The reduction
does not need to know the honest user’s secret key as it fakes the NIZK proof.
Under the pseudorandomness of DY-VRF†, we show: | Pr[Game(3)(λ) = 1] −
Pr[Game(2)(λ) = 1]|≤ qt· Advpseudo
A,DY-VRF†(λ).
Game(4): If a particular identity string s holder is directed to sign distinct con-
texts, e.g. T = (h(ctx), ˆD) and T′ = (h(ctx′), ˆD), the simulator substitutes dis-
tinct random group elements for these values, e.g., T,T′ $
← −GT . Under the
DDH assumption, we show: | Pr[Game(4)(λ) = 1] − Pr[Game(3)(λ) = 1] | ≤
qt·qh· AdvDDH
A (λ).
Game(5):F (5)
SyRA prohibitsS (5) from submitting any message to F (5)
SyRA on be-
half of the adversary A (corrupted party) who generates a valid signature for
a new party (not belonging to the group of honest and corrupted parties) or
generates a valid signature on behalf of an honest party. Under the pseudoran-

36 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
domness of DY-VRF†, we show: | Pr[Game(5)(λ) = 1] − Pr[Game(4)(λ) = 1]|≤
Advpseudo
A,DY-VRF†(λ).
Game(6):F (6)
SyRA does not allow S (6) to submit any message to F (6)
SyRA on behalf
of the adversary A (corrupted party) who generates two valid signatures with
one unique identifier s on a given context where T1̸=T2, or generates two valid
signatures using two identifiers s1̸= s2 where T1 = T2. It is argued that the
probability of such events is zero. Hence: Pr[Game(6)(λ) = 1] = Pr[Game(5)(λ) =
1].
Details of games and associated reductions In this section, we provide
a detailed description of each game along with the corresponding reductions
employed in our security proof.
To enhance simplicity and avoid redundancy, we omit details such as channel
leakages in the following games. These aspects have already been discussed in the
simulator description in Section 7.1.
Game(0): In the initial game, F (0)
SyRA simply forwards all communications with
Z. The simulator S (0) corresponds to the execution of the real-world protocol
EXECΠSASSI,A,Z.
Game(1): Same as Game(0), except that Game(1) additionally checks whether a
flag is raised. The flag is raised when the adversaryA outputs two commitments
com∈ x and com′∈ x′ where com = com′ but for different committed values
s̸=s′. The associated statements and proofs are (x,π ) and (x′,π′), respectively.
The simulator emulatingFNIZK extracts the witnesses viaw← Extract(x,π ) and
w′← Extract(x′,π′), and checks whether s∈ w̸= s′∈ w′. The flag is raised if
s̸=s′. Any difference between Game(0) and Game(1) arises from a violation of the
binding property of the underlying Pedersen commitment scheme. Accordingly,
the distinguishing advantage ofZ between Game(0) and Game(1) can be bounded
by:| Pr
h
Game(1)(λ) = 1
i
− Pr
h
Game(0)(λ) = 1
i
|≤ Advbind
A,COM(λ). (we omit a
formal proof of this fact)
Game(2): This game is identical to Game(1), except for the following modifica-
tion: All honest parties’ plaintexts ( usk, ˆusk) within the encryptions ( C, ˆC) are
replaced with random group elements chosen uniformly from G and ˆG, respec-
tively. However, note thatT values are still computed using real-world values.
We show that Game(2) and Game(1) are indistinguishable under the IND-CPA
security of ElGamal encryption, which allows us to bound the probability that
Z distinguishes Game(2) from Game(1).
We introduce a sequences of sub-games:
(Game(1)
0 := Game(1),..., Game(1)
i−1,
Game(1)
i ,..., Game(1)
2qt := Game(2))
where qt denotes the upper bound on the number of all signatures of all honest
parties. Defining Game(1)
0 := Game(1), Game(1)
1 is the same as Game(1)
0 , except

SyRA Signatures 37
we change the plaintext of the first ciphertext of the first honest party from
the real-world value to the ideal-world random group element. Finally, we do
the same for the last (second) ciphertext of the last honest party such that in
Game(1)
2qt := Game(2), all ciphertexts are generated from random group elements
byS (1)
2qt =S (2). The reduction between Game(1)
i−1 and Game(1)
i is described below,
where any difference between them is upper bounded by AdvIND-CPA
A (λ).
In leaky functionalities F (1)
SyRA,i, 1 ≤ i ≤ 2qt, where F (1)
SyRA,1 := F (1)
SyRA and
F (1)
SyRA,2qt
:= F (2)
SyRA, the leaked message to the simulator in the Issue and
Sign commands are ( Issue, sid, id, P,s,x s, I) and ( Sign, sid, P, ctx,m, tid), re-
spectively, for honest parties. Hence, the simulator knows ( P,s ) values for all
honest parties. Later, in subsequent games, the associated functionalities be-
come less leaky and closer to our main functionality FSyRA.
Associated reduction between Game(1)
i−1 and Game(1)
i (IND-CPA security of
ElGamal encryption; for 1≤i≤ 2qt). IfZ distinguishes Game(1)
i−1 and Game(1)
i ,
we can construct A′ that breaks the IND-CPA security of ElGamal encryption
used in our construction.
– For 1≤ j≤ i− 1: all (real-world) plaintexts have already been substituted
with (ideal-world) random values.
– Fori + 1≤j≤ 2qt: all ciphertexts are created using real-world plaintexts.
– The challengerC of the IND-CPA game outputs pk toA′.
– A′ sets W ← pk. For simplicity, we omit writing the details for ˆC, as it is
similar to C. (In our construction, pk for ElGamal ciphertext C is W ∈ G
and for ˆC it is ˆW∈ ˆG.)
– The real-world plaintext value g1/(s+isk) (associated to b = 0 in the IND-CPA
game) is changed to A in Game(1)
i , where A
$
← −G (which is the ideal-world
value associated to b = 1 in the IND-CPA game).
– The challenger provides Cb to distinguisher A′: for b = 0, C0 encrypts
g1/(s+isk), and for b = 1, C1 encrypts A. Therefore, for Z, Game(1)
i is the
same as running the real-world protocol with real-world value usk for an hon-
est party, rather than a random group element. Hence, if Z distinguishes
Game(1)
i−1 from Game(1)
i ,A′ uses this to win the IND-CPA game.
The next game hop, namely between Game(1)
i and Game(1)
i+1, for the value ˆusk of
honest parties encrypted to ˆC is similar, so we omit the details.
Simulating honest party signature. A′ simulates signatures σ of honest parties
as follows:
– EmulatingFNIZK, call π ← SimProve(x) where x = (Z,C, ˆC,T, ivk, ctx,m )
and record (π,x ).
– Set σ← (π,x ) andLSS←L SS∪{σ}. Recall thatLSS is the list of simulated
signatures.
– Submit (Signature, sid,σ,s∗, tid) toF (1)
SyRA,i where s∗ = 0.

38 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
Therefore, under the IND-CPA security of ElGamal encryption, the following
inequality holds:
| Pr[Game(2)(λ) = 1]− Pr[Game(1)(λ) = 1]|≤ 2qt· AdvIND-CPA
A (λ)
Game(3): Same as Game(2), except that in Game(3), we change all tags T =
e(Z, ˆusk) of honest parties to tags of the form T = e(Z, ˆD) where ˆD
$
← −ˆG. We
highlight that in this game, for a fixed identifier s, the simulator always uses the
same random group element ˆD. Hence, Game(3) is the same as Game(2), except
S (3) computes theT values using random group elements, rather than real-world
ˆusk values, for all honest parties.
We show that Game(3) and Game(2) are indistinguishable under the pseudoran-
domness of DY-VRF†, which allows us to bound the probability that Z distin-
guishes Game(3) from Game(2).
We introduce a sequence of sub-games:
(Game(2)
0 := Game(2),..., Game(2)
j−1,
Game(2)
j ,..., Game(2)
qt := Game(3))
(whereqt denotes the upper bound on the number of all signatures of all honest
parties.) Define Game(2)
0 := Game(2). Game(2)
1 is the same as Game(2)
0 , except in
Game(2)
1 , we change the tag T from the real-world value T = e(Z, ˆusk) to the
ideal-world valueT =e(Z, ˆD), where ˆD
$
← −ˆG. Finally, we do the same for the last
tag such that in Game(2)
qt := Game(3), all tags are generated using random group
elements (instead of real-world values ˆusk). The reduction between Game(2)
j−1 and
Game(2)
j is described below, where any difference between them is upper bounded
by Advpseudo
A,DY-VRF†(λ).
In leaky functionalities F (2)
SyRA,j, 1 ≤ j ≤ qt, where F (2)
SyRA,1 := F (2)
SyRA and
F (2)
SyRA,qt
:= F (3)
SyRA), the leaked message to the simulator in the Issue and
Sign commands are ( Issue, sid, id, P,s,x s, I) and ( Sign, sid, P, ctx,m, tid), re-
spectively, for an honest party P.
Associated reduction between Game(2)
j−1 and Game(2)
j (pseudorandomness
of DY-VRF†; for 1 ≤ j≤ qt). IfZ distinguishes Game(2)
j−1 and Game(2)
j , we can
constructA′ that breaks the pseudorandomness of DY-VRF†.
High-level overview of the reduction . The reduction proceeds by constructing an
adversaryA′ that leveragesZ who is capable of distinguishing between Game(2)
j−1
and Game(2)
j , to break the pseudorandomness of DY-VRF† (see Definition 5).
First,A′ interacts with the challenger and uses its oracle access to simulate re-
sponses for the adversaryA. As described in Definition 5, the pseudorandomness
game grants the adversary oracle access (OSign) to a signing function that outputs
proofs. Specifically,A′ uses this access to emulate the issuance of malicious user
secret keys: it submits a malicious user identitys to the challenger and receives a

SyRA Signatures 39
corresponding response, which it sets as the malicious user’s secret key. Later, in
the challenge phase, A′ submits an identity s corresponding to an honest user.
The challenger then returns a group element, which is either (a) a uniformly
random element or (b) a pseudorandom element derived in a specific way (see
Definition 5). A′ uses this challenge to generate the honest user’s pseudonym
and sets random group elements as the plaintexts of ciphertexts ( C, ˆC) while
faking the NIZK proof via emulating FNIZK.
– For 1≤k≤j−1: all (real-world) ˆusk values in tagsT =e(Z, ˆusk) have already
been substituted with (ideal-world) random values ˆD
$
← −ˆG, T =e(Z, ˆD).
– Forj + 1≤k≤qt: all tags are created using real-world ˆusk values.
– The challengerC of the pseudorandomness game outputs ˆIVK toA′.
– A′ sets ˆivk← ˆIVK.
– Program random oracle as: Zl = h(m1l)←grl for rl
$
← −Z∗
p.
– Upon receiving ( Sign, sid, P, ctx,m, tid) fromF (2)
SyRA,j,A′ retrieves the associ-
ated s value of P using the leaked message ( Issue, sid, id, P,s,x s, I).
– If there exists an entry (s′,r′
s) recorded where s′ =s, set ˆD← ˆgr′
s. Else, pick
rs
$
← −Z∗
p. Record (s,rs), and set ˆD← ˆgrs.
– The real-world tag value Treal = e(g, ˆg1/(s+isk))rl (associated to b = 0 in the
pseudorandomness game) is changed to the ideal-world valueTideal =e(g, ˆD)rl
in Game(2)
j (associated to b = 1 in the pseudorandomness game).
– A′ providess (wheres /∈ Scorrupted) to the challengerC (note thats /∈Q ;Q is a
query list maintained byC which contains onlys values of corrupted parties).
– Upon receiving the challenge target group element Tb from the challengerC,
the adversary A′ proceeds as follows: for the case b = 0, Treal = Trl
0 ; and
for b = 1, Tideal = Trl
1 . This is because as defined in Definition 5, T0 =
e(g, ˆg)1/(s+isk) and T1 is sampled randomly. A′ sets Trl
b as pseudonym T of
honest user with identity string s (provided to the challenger as the challenge
input) and emulatingFNIZK computesπ← SimProve(x) forTrl
b ∈x and check
that Verify(x,π ) = 1. If so, records the entry (x,π ).
– IfZ distinguishes Game(2)
j−1 (with Treal = Trl
b for b = 0) from Game(2)
j (with
Tideal =Trl
b forb = 1), thenA′ uses this advantage to win the pseudorandom-
ness game as the pseudonym of the honest user is derived using the challenge.
Therefore, for Z, Game(2)
j is indistinguishable from the real-world protocol
where the real-world ˆusk value is used in tag computation for an honest party,
rather than a random group element from ˆG.
Simulating honest issuer public key.A′ simulates the public keys of honest issuers
as follows without knowing their secret keys. Without loss of generality, we
assume the index set C ={1,...,t − 1} corresponds to the malicious issuers,
while the indices H ={t,...,n } are assigned to the honest ones.
– Set ˆivk ← ˆIVK, where ˆIVK is provided by the challenger of the DY-VRF†
pseudorandomness game.

40 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
– EmulatingFn,t
DKG, upon receiving (CPoints, sid,{αj}j∈C) fromA, compute the
public keys of the malicious issuers as: ˆivkj← ˆgαj for all j∈ C.
– Compute the public keys of the honest issuers using Lagrange interpolation:
ˆivkk = ( ˆivk)
Q
m∈C
m−k
m ·
Y
j∈C
( ˆivkj)
Q
m∈C∪{0},m̸=j
k−m
j−m
for all k∈ H.
– Output (VerKey, sid, ( ˆivki, ˆivk)) for all issuers to F (2)
SyRA,j.
Simulating honest issuer share of malicious user secret key. 18A′ simulates the
shares of honest issuers during the threshold issuance protocol (for the malicious
user’s secret key generation). Similar to the previous simulation we assume the
index set C = {1,...,t − 1} corresponds to the malicious issuers, while the
indices H ={t,...,n } are assigned to the honest ones. We intentionally avoid
addressing leakages and calls that have been already addressed in Section 7.1 for
malicious user case.
– Emulating FNIZK and an honest issuer Issk in the set of t issuers I, ex-
tract the adversary’s witness by executing: w← Extract(x,π ), where w =
(s,ws,{sj}n
j=1,{zi}∀i∈index(I)) fork∈ H. Check if (x,w )∈R holds. If it does
not hold, abort.
– Query the challengerC using the extracted s.
[Note that: C sets Q ← Q∪{s} and sends (χ, ˆχ) to A′, where χ =
g1/(s+ISK) and ˆχ = ˆg1/(s+ISK). Here, ISK is the secret key associated with
ˆIVK. Upon receiving (χ, ˆχ) fromC, A′ must simulate the honest issuer’s
share such that the secret key generated by the malicious user becomes (χ, ˆχ).
The adversary (malicious user P) receives (ReceivedBack, sid, Isst, (ωt, ˆωt))
from F sas
Ch , sent by the honest issuer Isst. Thus, A′ must simulate two
group elements ensuring the following equalities hold upon aggregation: ω← −
SSH.Aggn,t{ωi}∀i∈index(I) and ˆω ← −SSH.Aggn,t{ˆωi}∀i∈index(I), such that
ω = χ and ˆω = ˆχ where I contains t− 1 malicious issuers and an honest
issuer simulated by A′.]
– EmulatingFn,t
DKG,A′ knows secret keys of malicious issuers: iskj for j∈ C.
And given the witness extracted by A′: w = (s,ws,{sj}n
j=1,{zi}∀i∈index(I)),
A′ checks if calls toFmul via the adversary (on behalf of malicious issuers) of
the form: ( Compute, sid|| id|| I,rj, (iskj,sj), auxj) for some rj are consistent
with iskj and sj.
• If there exits at least one inconsistency either for iskj orsj forj∈ C: sam-
pleγ
$
← −Zp and setK←gγ and ˆK← ˆgγ. Output (Computed, sid|| id|| I,
K, ˆK) to all t− 1 malicious issuers who have called Fmul as output of
18 All honest users secret keys that are DY-VRF† proofs in both source groups are
hidden under ciphertexts from the adversary’s view. In the following, we elaborate
on the simulation of DY-VRF† proof issuance for malicious users.

SyRA Signatures 41
Fmul. Emulating honest issuer Isst andF sas
Ch , sample rt
$
← −Zp and send
(ReceivedBack, sid, Isst, (ωt, ˆωt)) to the malicious user where ωt← Krt,
and ˆωt← ˆKrt.
• Else, samplert
$
← −Zp and computer← −SSH.Aggn,t
n
{rj}j∈C∪{rt}
o
. Set
K← χr−1
and ˆK← ˆχr−1
. Output ( Computed, sid|| id|| I,K, ˆK) to all
t− 1 malicious issuers who have calledFmul as output ofFmul. Emulating
honest issuer Isst andF sas
Ch , send ( ReceivedBack, sid, Isst, (ωt, ˆωt)) to the
malicious user where ωt← Krt, and ˆωt← ˆKrt. Update: LCR←L CR∪
{P}, Scorrupted← Scorrupted∪{s}, whereLCR denotes the list of corrupted-
registered parties (who have been issued signing keys).
A′ simulates the signatures σ of honest parties similar to how this simula-
tion was done in the reduction between Game(1)
i−1 and Game(1)
i . A′ submits
(Signature, sid,σ,s∗, tid) toF (2)
SyRA,j, where s∗ = 0.
Therefore, under the pseudorandomness of DY-VRF†, the following inequality
holds:
| Pr[Game(3)(λ) = 1]− Pr[Game(2)(λ) = 1]|≤ qt· Advpseudo
A,DY-VRF†(λ)
Game(4): Same as Game(3), except that in Game(4), we change all tags T =
e(Z, ˆD) of honest parties to random values T
$
← −GT . We highlight that in this
game, for a fixed identifiers, the simulator samples fresh random group elements
for different contexts unless the same identity strings holder is instructed to sign
the same context. (In this case, the simulator receives the same ucid from the
ideal functionality and uses the same tag value T , as we will see.)
Specifically, in Game(3), if the same s holder was instructed to sign different
contexts, the simulator used the same ˆD value for tags (e.g., T1 =e(h(ctx1), ˆD)
andT2 =e(h(ctx2), ˆD), where ˆD
$
← −ˆG, and h(·) is the output ofFRO). In Game(4),
if the same s holder is instructed to sign different contexts, the simulator uses
different random group elements for tag computation: ( T1,T 2)
$
← −G2
T .
In leaky functionalities F (3)
SyRA,j, 1 ≤ j ≤ qt, where F (3)
SyRA,1 := F (3)
SyRA and
F (3)
SyRA,qt
:=F (4)
SyRA), the leaked message to the simulator in the Issue and Sign
commands ( Issue, sid, id, P,xs, I) and ( Sign, sid, P, ctx,m, tid), respectively, for
an honest party P.
We show thatGame(4) and Game(3)are indistinguishable under the DDH assump-
tion, which allows us to bound the probability thatZ distinguishes Game(4) from
Game(3).
We introduce a sequences of sub-games:
(Game(3)
0 := Game(3),..., Game(3)
j−1,
Game(3)
j ,..., Game(3)
qt := Game(4))

42 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
(whereqt denotes the upper bound on the number of all signatures of all honest
parties.) Define Game(3)
0 := Game(3). Game(3)
1 is the same as Game(3)
0 , except in
Game(3)
1 , we change the first tag value of the first honest party (e.g., who holds
s1) from T1,1 = e(Z, ˆD) to T1,1
$
← −GT . in Game(3)
2 , we change the second tag
value of the first honest party (holding s1) from T2,1 =e(Z′, ˆD) to T2,1
$
← −GT ,
and so on. The reduction between Game(3)
j−1 and Game(3)
j is described below,
where any difference between them is upper bounded by AdvDDH
A (λ).
Associated reduction between Game(3)
j−1 and Game(3)
j (DDH; for 1≤j≤qt).
IfZ distinguishes Game(3)
j−1 and Game(3)
j , we can construct A′ that breaks the
DDH assumption.
– For 1≤ k≤ j− 1: all ˆD values (associated to each honest party P) in tags
T = e(Z, ˆD) have already been substituted. For instance, T1 = e(Z, ˆD) and
T2 =e(Z′, ˆD) associated with an honest party have changed to (T1,T 2)
$
← −G2
T .
– For j + 1≤ k≤ qt: all tags are created such that for a fixed s holder the
simulator always uses the same group element ˆD in tag computation.
– The challengerC of DDH forg∈ G computes:X =gx,Y =gy,C 0 =gxy, and
C1 =gr whereC samples (x,y,r ) randomly: (x,y,r )
$
← −Z∗
p.
– The challengerC provides (g,X,Y,C b) toA′ where b = 0 or b = 1.
Letqh be the total number of queries the adversary can make to the random
oracle. Then:
– i
$
← −[1,qh],A′ sets Z = h(ctx)← X if ctr = i; ( ctr is initially set to zero).
Else, program the random oracle as: Zk = h(ctxk)←gxk wherexk
$
← −Z∗
p and
set ctr← ctr + 1.
The tag value T =e(h(ctx), ˆD), which is computed as e(C0, ˆg) (associated to
b = 0 in the DDH game), is changed to T = e(C1, ˆg) (associated to b = 1
in the DDH game) in Game(3)
j . Therefore, if Z distinguishes Game(3)
j−1 from
Game(3)
j ,A′ uses this to win the DDH game.
A′ simulates signatures σ of honest parties similar to how this simula-
tion was done in the reduction between Game(1)
i−1 and Game(1)
i . A′ submits
(Signature, sid,σ,s∗, tid) toF (3)
SyRA,j where s∗ = 0.
Therefore, under the DDH assumption, the following inequality holds:
| Pr[Game(4)(λ) = 1]− Pr[Game(3)(λ) = 1]|≤ qt·qh· AdvDDH
A (λ)
Game(5): Same as Game(4), except that in Game(5),F (5)
SyRA does not allow S (5)
to submit any message to F (5)
SyRA on behalf of adversary A (corrupted party)
who generates a valid signature for a new party (who is not among honest and
corrupted parties) or who generates a valid signature on behalf of an honest
party. Hence, Game(5) is the same as Game(4), except that it checks whether a
flag is raised or not. The flag is raised if A can generate a valid signature for
a completely new party, who is neither honest nor corrupted, or forge a valid
signature for an honest party.

SyRA Signatures 43
We show that Game(5) and Game(4) are indistinguishable under the pseudoran-
domness of DY-VRF†, which allows us to bound the probability that Z distin-
guishes Game(5) from Game(4).
Note thatF (5)
SyRA, in the Issue and Sign commands, does not leak the identity
of the (honest) party P toS (5).F (5)
SyRA leaks to ideal-world adversaryS whatever
our finalFSyRA leaks toS, which is ( Sign, sid, ucid, ctx,m, tid). As a result, S (5)
picks a random group element as the tag value, except in the instance that the
same ucid is received from the functionality.
Associated reduction between Game(5) and Game(4) (pseudorandomness of
DY-VRF†). If Z distinguishes Game(5) and Game(4), we can construct A′ that
breaks the pseudorandomness of DY-VRF†.
The final simulatorS is described in Section 7.1. To prevent redundancy, we will
highlight distinctions from this simulator. S (5) fails with probability at most
Advpseudo
A,DY-VRF†(λ) as it is shown below in cases where emulating honest verifier
S (5) receives a valid signature (fromA) that is never simulated by S (5).
– Given the extracted witnessw = (s,α,β ) fromA’s statement and proof (x,π )
(see Section 7.1 for more details), A′ provides s /∈ Scorrupted to the challenger
C of the pseudorandomness game (where s /∈Q ; recall that Q is a query list
maintained byC, which only contains s values of corrupted parties).
– The challengerC providesTb toA′.
– Parsex = (Z,C, ˆC,T, ivk, ctx,m ). For caseb = 0:T0 =T ; and for b = 1:T1̸=
T . Hence, ifA provides a valid signature (see Section 7.1 for a comprehensive
description of the steps involved in verifying the signature) for s /∈ Scorrupted,
A′ uses that to win the pseudorandomness game. Therefore, the probability
of failure forS (5) is upper bounded by Advpseudo
A,DY-VRF†(λ).
To avoid repetition, we omit the description of other simulations, as they are
similar to those provided in Game(3).
Therefore, under the pseudorandomness of DY-VRF†, the following inequality
holds:
| Pr[Game(5)(λ) = 1]− Pr[Game(4)(λ) = 1]|≤ Advpseudo
A,DY-VRF†(λ)
Game(6): Same as Game(5), except that in Game(6),F (6)
SyRA does not allowS (6) to
submit any message toF (6)
SyRA on behalf of adversary A (corrupted party) who:
– generates two valid signatures on behalf of a corrupted party on a context
where T1̸=T2; or
– generates two valid signatures on a context using two real-world identifiers
s1̸=s2 where T1 =T2.
Hence, Game(6) is the same as Game(5), except that it checks whether a flag is
raised or not. The flag is raised if one of the two events above occurs. Hence, the
probability thatZ distinguishes Game(6) from Game(5) is zero, as tag values have
uniqueness with respect to the context and s value of the party. More precisely:

44 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
– For a given s and context ctx, all generated signatures have the same tag
T =e(Z, ˆg)1/(isk+s).
– For a given context ctx, s1, and s2 where s1 ̸= s2, we always have T1 =
e(Z, ˆg)1/(isk+s1)̸=T2 =e(Z, ˆg)1/(isk+s2), as s≪| Z∗
p|.
Hence, the flag is never raised, and the following equality holds:
| Pr[Game(6)(λ) = 1] = Pr[Game(5)(λ) = 1]
AsF (6)
SyRA =FSyRA andS (6) =S, so that Game(6) corresponds to the ideal-world
execution EXECFSyRA,S,Z, we argue that random variables EXECΠSASSI,A,Z and
EXECFSyRA,S,Z are statistically close. Indeed, the probability for any PPT envi-
ronmentZ to distinguish EXECΠSASSI,A,Z from EXECFSyRA,S,Z is upper bounded
by
Advbind
A,COM(λ) + 2qt· AdvIND-CPA
A (λ)
+ (qt + 1)· Advpseudo
A,DY-VRF†(λ) +qt·qh· AdvDDH
A (λ)
which concludes the security proof.
Acknowledgements
This work has been supported by Input Output (iohk.io) through their funding
of the University of Edinburgh Blockchain Technology Lab. We thank Lovesh
Harchandani for implementing the system and contributing to the performance
evaluation.
References
Au et al.(2013). Man Ho Au, Joseph K. Liu, Willy Susilo, and Tsz Hon Yuen. 2013.
Secure ID-based linkable and revocable-iff-linked ring signature with constant-size
construction. Theor. Comput. Sci. 469 (2013), 1–14. https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.tcs.2012.10.031
Baldimtsi et al.(2017). Foteini Baldimtsi, Jan Camenisch, Maria Dubovitskaya, Anna
Lysyanskaya, Leonid Reyzin, Kai Samelin, and Sophia Yakoubov. 2017. Accumu-
lators with Applications to Anonymity-Preserving Revocation. In 2017 IEEE Eu-
ropean Symposium on Security and Privacy, EuroS&P 2017, Paris, France, April
26-28, 2017. IEEE, 301–315. https://doi.org/10.1109/EuroSP.2017.13
Baldimtsi et al.(2024). Foteini Baldimtsi, Konstantinos Kryptos Chalkias, Yan Ji,
Jonas Lindstrøm, Deepak Maram, Ben Riva, Arnab Roy, Mahdi Sedaghat, and
Joy Wang. 2024. zklogin: Privacy-preserving blockchain authentication with exist-
ing credentials. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.11735 (2024).
Ben-Sasson et al.(2014). Eli Ben-Sasson, Alessandro Chiesa, Christina Garman,
Matthew Green, Ian Miers, Eran Tromer, and Madars Virza. 2014. Zerocash:
Decentralized Anonymous Payments from Bitcoin. In 2014 IEEE Symposium on
Security and Privacy. IEEE Computer Society Press, 459–474. https://doi.org/
10.1109/SP.2014.36

SyRA Signatures 45
Bender et al.(2012). Jens Bender, ¨Ozg¨ ur Dagdelen, Marc Fischlin, and Dennis K¨ ugler.
2012. Domain-specific pseudonymous signatures for the german identity card. In
Information Security: 15th International Conference, ISC 2012, Passau, Germany,
September 19-21, 2012. Proceedings 15. Springer, 104–119.
B la´ skiewicz et al.(2019). Przemys law B la´ skiewicz, Lucjan Hanzlik, Kamil Kluczniak,
 Lukasz Krzywiecki, Miros law Kuty lowski, Marcin S lowik, and Marta Wszo la. 2019.
Pseudonymous signature schemes. Advances in Cyber Security: Principles, Tech-
niques, and Applications (2019), 185–255.
Boneh et al.(2004a). Dan Boneh, Xavier Boyen, and Hovav Shacham. 2004a. Short
Group Signatures. In CRYPTO 2004 (LNCS, Vol. 3152), Matthew Franklin (Ed.).
Springer, Heidelberg, 41–55. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-28628-8_3
Boneh et al.(2004b). Dan Boneh, Ben Lynn, and Hovav Shacham. 2004b. Short Sig-
natures from the Weil Pairing. Journal of Cryptology 17, 4 (Sept. 2004), 297–319.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00145-004-0314-9
Boyle et al.(2021). Elette Boyle, Ran Cohen, and Aarushi Goel. 2021. Breaking the
O(√n)-Bit Barrier: Byzantine Agreement with polylog bits per party. In Proceed-
ings of the 2021 ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing . 319–
330.
Brickell and Li(2010). Ernie Brickell and Jiangtao Li. 2010. A pairing-based DAA
scheme further reducing TPM resources. In International Conference on Trust
and Trustworthy Computing . Springer, 181–195.
Bringer et al.(2014). Julien Bringer, Herv´ e Chabanne, Roch Lescuyer, and Alain
Patey. 2014. Efficient and strongly secure dynamic domain-specific pseudonymous
signatures for ID documents. In Financial Cryptography and Data Security: 18th
International Conference, FC 2014, Christ Church, Barbados, March 3-7, 2014,
Revised Selected Papers 18. Springer, 255–272.
B¨ unz et al.(2020). Benedikt B¨ unz, Shashank Agrawal, Mahdi Zamani, and Dan Boneh.
2020. Zether: Towards privacy in a smart contract world. In International Confer-
ence on Financial Cryptography and Data Security . Springer, 423–443.
Burdges et al.(2023). Jeffrey Burdges, Oana Ciobotaru, Elizabeth Crites, Han-
dan Kılın¸ c Alper, Alistair Stewart, and Sergey Vasilyev. 2023. Ring Verifi-
able Random Functions. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/002. https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2023/002
Camenisch et al.(2018). Jan Camenisch, Manu Drijvers, Tommaso Gagliardoni, Anja
Lehmann, and Gregory Neven. 2018. The wonderful world of global random ora-
cles. In Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryp-
tographic Techniques. Springer, 280–312.
Camenisch et al.(2006b). Jan Camenisch, Susan Hohenberger, Markulf Kohlweiss,
Anna Lysyanskaya, and Mira Meyerovich. 2006b. How to win the clonewars: effi-
cient periodic n-times anonymous authentication. In Proceedings of the 13th ACM
Conference on Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2006, Alexandria,
VA, USA, October 30 - November 3, 2006 . ACM, 201–210. https://doi.org/10.
1145/1180405.1180431
Camenisch et al.(2005). Jan Camenisch, Susan Hohenberger, and Anna Lysyanskaya.
2005. Compact E-Cash. In EUROCRYPT 2005 (LNCS, Vol. 3494) , Ronald
Cramer (Ed.). Springer, Heidelberg, 302–321. https://doi.org/10.1007/
11426639_18
Camenisch et al.(2006a). Jan Camenisch, Susan Hohenberger, and Anna Lysyanskaya.
2006a. Balancing Accountability and Privacy Using E-Cash (Extended Abstract).
In SCN 06 (LNCS, Vol. 4116) , Roberto De Prisco and Moti Yung (Eds.). Springer,
Heidelberg, 141–155. https://doi.org/10.1007/11832072_10

46 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
Camenisch and Lysyanskaya(2001). Jan Camenisch and Anna Lysyanskaya. 2001.
An Efficient System for Non-transferable Anonymous Credentials with Op-
tional Anonymity Revocation. In EUROCRYPT 2001 (LNCS, Vol. 2045) , Bir-
git Pfitzmann (Ed.). Springer, Heidelberg, 93–118. https://doi.org/10.1007/
3-540-44987-6_7
Canetti et al.(2020). Ran Canetti, Rosario Gennaro, Steven Goldfeder, Nikolaos
Makriyannis, and Udi Peled. 2020. UC Non-Interactive, Proactive, Threshold
ECDSA with Identifiable Aborts. In ACM CCS 2020 , Jay Ligatti, Xinming Ou,
Jonathan Katz, and Giovanni Vigna (Eds.). ACM Press, 1769–1787. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3372297.3423367
Chase and Lysyanskaya(2006). Melissa Chase and Anna Lysyanskaya. 2006. On Sig-
natures of Knowledge. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2006/184. https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2006/184.
Chaum(1985). David Chaum. 1985. Security Without Identification: Transaction Sys-
tems to Make Big Brother Obsolete. Commun. ACM 28, 10 (1985), 1030–1044.
https://doi.org/10.1145/4372.4373
Chaum and Evertse(1986). David Chaum and Jan-Hendrik Evertse. 1986. A Secure
and Privacy-protecting Protocol for Transmitting Personal Information Between
Organizations. In Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO ’86, Santa Barbara, Cali-
fornia, USA, 1986, Proceedings (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 263) .
Springer, 118–167. https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-47721-7_10
Chaum and van Heyst(1991). David Chaum and Eug` ene van Heyst. 1991. Group
Signatures. In EUROCRYPT’91 (LNCS, Vol. 547) , Donald W. Davies (Ed.).
Springer, Heidelberg, 257–265. https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46416-6_22
Company(2024). Electric Coin Company. 2024. New SNARK Curve. https:
//electriccoin.co/blog/new-snark-curve/.
Consortium(2022). The World Wide Web Consortium. 2022. Decentralized Identifiers
(DIDs). https://w3c.github.io/did-core/.
Cothority(2024). Cothority. 2024. DKG Implementation. Available at: Link..
Damg˚ ard et al.(2006). Ivan Damg˚ ard, Kasper Dupont, and Michael Østergaard Ped-
ersen. 2006. Unclonable Group Identification. In Advances in Cryptology - EURO-
CRYPT 2006, 25th Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applica-
tions of Cryptographic Techniques, St. Petersburg, Russia, May 28 - June 1, 2006,
Proceedings (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 4004) . Springer, 555–572.
https://doi.org/10.1007/11761679_33
Damg˚ ard et al.(2021). Ivan Damg˚ ard, Chaya Ganesh, Hamidreza Khoshakhlagh,
Claudio Orlandi, and Luisa Siniscalchi. 2021. Balancing Privacy and Accountabil-
ity in Blockchain Identity Management. In CT-RSA 2021 (LNCS, Vol. 12704) ,
Kenneth G. Paterson (Ed.). Springer, Heidelberg, 552–576. https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-030-75539-3_23
David et al.(2024). Bernardo David, Rafael Dowsley, Anders Konring, and Mario
Larangeira. 2024. MUSEN: Aggregatable Key-Evolving Verifiable Random Func-
tions and Applications. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2024/628. https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2024/628
Dfns(2024). Dfns. 2024. CGGMP21 In Rust, At Last. Available at: Link..
Diaz et al.(2008). Claudia Diaz, Eleni Kosta, Hannelore Dekeyser, Markulf Kohlweiss,
and Girma Nigusse. 2008. Privacy preserving electronic petitions. Identity in the
Information Society 1, 1 (2008), 203–219.
Dingledine et al.(2004). Roger Dingledine, Nick Mathewson, and Paul F. Syverson.
2004. Tor: The Second-Generation Onion Router. In USENIX Security 2004, Matt
Blaze (Ed.). USENIX Association, 303–320.

SyRA Signatures 47
Dodis and Yampolskiy(2005). Yevgeniy Dodis and Aleksandr Yampolskiy. 2005. A
verifiable random function with short proofs and keys. In International Workshop
on Public Key Cryptography . Springer, 416–431.
Dodis et al.(2006). Yevgeniy Dodis, Aleksandr Yampolskiy, and Moti Yung. 2006.
Threshold and Proactive Pseudo-Random Permutations. In Theory of Cryptogra-
phy, Third Theory of Cryptography Conference, TCC 2006, New York, NY, USA,
March 4-7, 2006, Proceedings (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 3876) .
Springer, 542–560. https://doi.org/10.1007/11681878_28
Doerner et al.(2023). Jack Doerner, Yashvanth Kondi, Eysa Lee, Abhi Shelat, and
LaKyah Tyner. 2023. Threshold bbs+ signatures for distributed anonymous cre-
dential issuance. In 2023 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) . IEEE,
773–789.
ElGamal(1985). Taher ElGamal. 1985. A public key cryptosystem and a signature
scheme based on discrete logarithms. IEEE transactions on information theory
31, 4 (1985), 469–472.
Escala and Groth(2014). Alex Escala and Jens Groth. 2014. Fine-Tuning Groth-Sahai
Proofs. In PKC 2014 (LNCS, Vol. 8383) , Hugo Krawczyk (Ed.). Springer, Heidel-
berg, 630–649. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-54631-0_36
Even et al.(1985). Shimon Even, Oded Goldreich, and Abraham Lempel. 1985. A
randomized protocol for signing contracts. Commun. ACM 28, 6 (1985), 637–647.
Fauzi et al.(2019). Prastudy Fauzi, Sarah Meiklejohn, Rebekah Mercer, and Claudio
Orlandi. 2019. Quisquis: A new design for anonymous cryptocurrencies. In Ad-
vances in Cryptology–ASIACRYPT 2019: 25th International Conference on the
Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information Security, Kobe, Japan, De-
cember 8–12, 2019, Proceedings, Part I 25 . Springer, 649–678.
Fedimint(2024). Fedimint. 2024. DKG Implementation. Available at: Link..
Fett et al.(2016). Daniel Fett, Ralf K¨ usters, and Guido Schmitz. 2016. A Com-
prehensive Formal Security Analysis of OAuth 2.0. In Proceedings of the 2016
ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security . Asso-
ciation for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1204–1215. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978385
Fiat and Shamir(1987). Amos Fiat and Adi Shamir. 1987. How to Prove Yourself:
Practical Solutions to Identification and Signature Problems. In CRYPTO’86
(LNCS, Vol. 263) , Andrew M. Odlyzko (Ed.). Springer, Heidelberg, 186–194.
https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-47721-7_12
Foundation(2023). Decentralized Identity Foundation. 2023. https://identity.
foundation/.
Fujisaki and Suzuki(2007). Eiichiro Fujisaki and Koutarou Suzuki. 2007. Traceable
Ring Signature. In PKC 2007 (LNCS, Vol. 4450) , Tatsuaki Okamoto and Xi-
aoyun Wang (Eds.). Springer, Heidelberg, 181–200. https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-540-71677-8_13
Garay et al.(2011). Juan A Garay, Jonathan Katz, Ranjit Kumaresan, and Hong-
Sheng Zhou. 2011. Adaptively secure broadcast, revisited. In Proceedings of the
30th annual ACM SIGACT-SIGOPS symposium on Principles of distributed com-
puting. 179–186.
Gennaro et al.(2007). Rosario Gennaro, Stanislaw Jarecki, Hugo Krawczyk, and Tal
Rabin. 2007. Secure Distributed Key Generation for Discrete-Log Based Cryp-
tosystems. Journal of Cryptology 20, 1 (Jan. 2007), 51–83. https://doi.org/10.
1007/s00145-006-0347-3

48 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
Groth(2010). Jens Groth. 2010. Short Pairing-Based Non-interactive Zero-Knowledge
Arguments. In ASIACRYPT 2010 (LNCS, Vol. 6477) , Masayuki Abe (Ed.).
Springer, Heidelberg, 321–340. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-17373-8_
19
Groth et al.(2006). Jens Groth, Rafail Ostrovsky, and Amit Sahai. 2006. Perfect non-
interactive zero knowledge for NP. InAnnual International Conference on the The-
ory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques . Springer, 339–358.
Guillou and Quisquater(1988). Louis C. Guillou and Jean-Jacques Quisquater. 1988.
A Practical Zero-Knowledge Protocol Fitted to Security Microprocessor Mini-
mizing Both Trasmission and Memory. In EUROCRYPT’88 (LNCS, Vol. 330) ,
C. G. G¨ unther (Ed.). Springer, Heidelberg, 123–128.https://doi.org/10.1007/
3-540-45961-8_11
Gurkan et al.(2021). Kobi Gurkan, Philipp Jovanovic, Mary Maller, Sarah Meiklejohn,
Gilad Stern, and Alin Tomescu. 2021. Aggregatable Distributed Key Generation.
In EUROCRYPT 2021, Part I (LNCS, Vol. 12696) , Anne Canteaut and Fran¸ cois-
Xavier Standaert (Eds.). Springer, Heidelberg, 147–176. https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-77870-5_6
Haitner et al.(2022). Iftach Haitner, Nikolaos Makriyannis, Samuel Ranellucci, and
Eliad Tsfadia. 2022. Highly efficient ot-based multiplication protocols. In An-
nual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic
Techniques. Springer, 180–209.
Herranz(2006). Javier Herranz. 2006. Deterministic Identity-Based Signatures for Par-
tial Aggregation. Comput. J. 49, 3 (2006), 322–330. https://doi.org/10.1093/
comjnl/bxh153
Hess(2003). Florian Hess. 2003. Efficient Identity Based Signature Schemes Based
on Pairings. In SAC 2002 (LNCS, Vol. 2595) , Kaisa Nyberg and Howard M.
Heys (Eds.). Springer, Heidelberg, 310–324. https://doi.org/10.1007/
3-540-36492-7_20
JAP(2009). JAP. 2009. JAP Anonymity & Privacy. http://anon.inf.tu-dresden.
de/.
Katz(2024). Jonathan Katz. 2024. Round-optimal, fully secure distributed key gener-
ation. In Annual International Cryptology Conference . Springer, 285–316.
Kiayias et al.(2022). Aggelos Kiayias, Markulf Kohlweiss, and Amirreza Sarencheh.
2022. PEReDi: Privacy-enhanced, regulated and distributed central bank digital
currencies. In Proceedings of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
Communications Security. 1739–1752.
Kiayias et al.(2004). Aggelos Kiayias, Yiannis Tsiounis, and Moti Yung. 2004. Trace-
able Signatures. In EUROCRYPT 2004 (LNCS, Vol. 3027) , Christian Cachin
and Jan Camenisch (Eds.). Springer, Heidelberg, 571–589. https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-540-24676-3_34
Kiayias and Zhou(2007). Aggelos Kiayias and Hong-Sheng Zhou. 2007. Hidden
Identity-Based Signatures. In FC 2007 (LNCS, Vol. 4886) , Sven Dietrich and
Rachna Dhamija (Eds.). Springer, Heidelberg, 134–147.
Kluczniak et al.(2016). Kamil Kluczniak, Lucjan Hanzlik, and Miros law Kuty lowski.
2016. A formal concept of domain pseudonymous signatures. In Information Secu-
rity Practice and Experience: 12th International Conference, ISPEC 2016, Zhangji-
ajie, China, November 16-18, 2016, Proceedings 12 . Springer, 238–254.
Kondi and abhi shelat(2022). Yashvanth Kondi and abhi shelat. 2022. Improved
Straight-Line Extraction in the Random Oracle Model With Applications to Signa-
ture Aggregation. Cryptology ePrint Archive. https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/
393

SyRA Signatures 49
Kuty lowski et al.(2016). Miros law Kuty lowski, Lucjan Hanzlik, and Kamil Kluczniak.
2016. Pseudonymous signature on eIDAS token–implementation based privacy
threats. In Australasian Conference on Information Security and Privacy. Springer,
467–477.
Labs(2024). Bolt Labs. 2024. DKG Implementation. Available at: Link..
Liu et al.(2004). Joseph K. Liu, Victor K. Wei, and Duncan S. Wong. 2004. Link-
able Spontaneous Anonymous Group Signature for Ad Hoc Groups (Extended
Abstract). In ACISP 04 (LNCS, Vol. 3108) , Huaxiong Wang, Josef Pieprzyk, and
Vijay Varadharajan (Eds.). Springer, Heidelberg, 325–335. https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-540-27800-9_28
Lysyanskaya and Rosenbloom(2022). Anna Lysyanskaya and Leah Namisa Rosen-
bloom. 2022. Universally Composable Sigma-protocols in the Global Random-
Oracle Model. Cryptology ePrint Archive. https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/290
Maram et al.(2021). Deepak Maram, Harjasleen Malvai, Fan Zhang, Nerla Jean-Louis,
Alexander Frolov, Tyler Kell, Tyrone Lobban, Christine Moy, Ari Juels, and An-
drew Miller. 2021. Candid: Can-do decentralized identity with legacy compatibil-
ity, sybil-resistance, and accountability. In 2021 IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy (SP). IEEE, 1348–1366.
Metere and Dong(2017). Roberto Metere and Changyu Dong. 2017. Automated cryp-
tographic analysis of the pedersen commitment scheme. In Computer Network Se-
curity: 7th International Conference on Mathematical Methods, Models, and Ar-
chitectures for Computer Network Security, MMM-ACNS 2017, Warsaw, Poland,
August 28-30, 2017, Proceedings 7 . Springer, 275–287.
Miao et al.(2020). Peihan Miao, Sarvar Patel, Mariana Raykova, Karn Seth, and Moti
Yung. 2020. Two-Sided Malicious Security for Private Intersection-Sum with Car-
dinality. In CRYPTO 2020, Part III (LNCS, Vol. 12172) , Daniele Micciancio and
Thomas Ristenpart (Eds.). Springer, Heidelberg, 3–33. https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-56877-1_1
Micali et al.(2003). Silvio Micali, Michael Rabin, and Joe Kilian. 2003. Zero-knowledge
sets. In 44th Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, 2003.
Proceedings.IEEE, 80–91.
Park et al.(2023). Sanghyeon Park, Jeong Hyuk Lee, Seunghwa Lee, Jung Hyun Chun,
Hyeonmyeong Cho, MinGi Kim, Hyun Ki Cho, and Soo-Mook Moon. 2023. Beyond
the Blockchain Address: Zero-Knowledge Address Abstraction. IACR Cryptol.
ePrint Arch. (2023), 191. https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/191
Pedersen(1991). Torben Pryds Pedersen. 1991. Non-interactive and information-
theoretic secure verifiable secret sharing. In Annual international cryptology con-
ference. Springer, 129–140.
Rial and Piotrowska(2022). Alfredo Rial and Ania M Piotrowska. 2022. Security Anal-
ysis of Coconut, an Attribute-Based Credential Scheme with Threshold Issuance.
Cryptology ePrint Archive (2022).
Rivest et al.(2001). Ronald L. Rivest, Adi Shamir, and Yael Tauman. 2001. How
to Leak a Secret. In ASIACRYPT 2001 (LNCS, Vol. 2248) , Colin Boyd (Ed.).
Springer, Heidelberg, 552–565. https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45682-1_32
Sakimura et al.(2014). Nat Sakimura, John Bradley, Mike Jones, Breno De Medeiros,
and Chuck Mortimore. 2014. OpenID Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set
1. The OpenID Foundation, specification 335 (2014).
Sarencheh et al.(2025a). Amirreza Sarencheh, Alireza Kavousi, Hamidreza
Khoshakhlagh, and Aggelos Kiayias. 2025a. DART: Decentralized, Anony-
mous, and Regulation-friendly Tokenization. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2025).

50 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
Sarencheh et al.(2025b). Amirreza Sarencheh, Aggelos Kiayias, and Markulf
Kohlweiss. 2025b. PARScoin: A Privacy-preserving, Auditable, and Regulation-
friendly Stablecoin. In Cryptology and Network Security . Springer Nature
Singapore, Singapore, 289–313.
Sasson et al.(2014). Eli Ben Sasson, Alessandro Chiesa, Christina Garman, Matthew
Green, Ian Miers, Eran Tromer, and Madars Virza. 2014. Zerocash: Decentral-
ized anonymous payments from bitcoin. In 2014 IEEE symposium on security and
privacy. IEEE, 459–474.
Scafuro and Zhang(2021). Alessandra Scafuro and Bihan Zhang. 2021. One-Time
Traceable Ring Signatures. In ESORICS 2021, Part II (LNCS, Vol. 12973) , Elisa
Bertino, Haya Shulman, and Michael Waidner (Eds.). Springer, Heidelberg, 481–
500. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-88428-4_24
Schnorr(1991). Claus-Peter Schnorr. 1991. Efficient Signature Generation by Smart
Cards. Journal of Cryptology 4, 3 (Jan. 1991), 161–174. https://doi.org/10.
1007/BF00196725
Shamir(1979). Adi Shamir. 1979. How to share a secret. Commun. ACM 22, 11 (1979),
612–613.
Shamir(1984). Adi Shamir. 1984. Identity-Based Cryptosystems and Signature
Schemes. In CRYPTO’84 (LNCS, Vol. 196) , G. R. Blakley and David Chaum
(Eds.). Springer, Heidelberg, 47–53.
Sonnino et al.(2019). Alberto Sonnino, Mustafa Al-Bassam, Shehar Bano, Sarah Meik-
lejohn, and George Danezis. 2019. Coconut: Threshold Issuance Selective Disclo-
sure Credentials with Applications to Distributed Ledgers. In NDSS 2019 . The
Internet Society.
Tomescu et al.(2022). Alin Tomescu, Adithya Bhat, Benny Applebaum, Ittai Abra-
ham, Guy Gueta, Benny Pinkas, and Avishay Yanai. 2022. UTT: Decentralized
Ecash with Accountable Privacy. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2022).
Volkamer and Grimm(2006). Melanie Volkamer and R¨ udiger Grimm. 2006. Multiple
Casts in Online Voting: Analyzing Chances. In Electronic Voting 2006: 2nd In-
ternational Workshop, Co-organized by Council of Europe, ESF TED, IFIP WG
8.6 and E-Voting.CC, August, 2nd - 4th, 2006 in Castle Hofen, Bregenz, Austria
(LNI, Vol. P-86). GI, 97–106. https://dl.gi.de/handle/20.500.12116/29174
Wang et al.(2012). Rui Wang, Shuo Chen, and XiaoFeng Wang. 2012. Signing Me onto
Your Accounts through Facebook and Google: A Traffic-Guided Security Study of
Commercially Deployed Single-Sign-On Web Services. In 2012 IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy . 365–379. https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2012.30
Worldcoin(2023). Worldcoin. 2023. https://whitepaper.worldcoin.org/.
X-explore(2023). X-explore. 2023. Advanced Analysis For Ar-
bitrum Airdrop. https://mirror.xyz/x-explore.eth/
AFroG11e24I6S1oDvTitNdQSDh8lN5bz9VZAink8lZ4.
Yang et al.(2021). Kang Yang, Liqun Chen, Zhenfeng Zhang, Christopher JP Newton,
Bo Yang, and Li Xi. 2021. Direct anonymous attestation with optimal tpm signing
efficiency. IEEE transactions on information forensics and security 16 (2021),
2260–2275.
Zhang et al.(2016). Fan Zhang, Ethan Cecchetti, Kyle Croman, Ari Juels, and Elaine
Shi. 2016. Town Crier: An Authenticated Data Feed for Smart Contracts. In
ACM CCS 2016 , Edgar R. Weippl, Stefan Katzenbeisser, Christopher Kruegel,
Andrew C. Myers, and Shai Halevi (Eds.). ACM Press, 270–282. https://doi.
org/10.1145/2976749.2978326

SyRA Signatures 51
Zhang et al.(2020). Fan Zhang, Deepak Maram, Harjasleen Malvai, Steven Goldfeder,
and Ari Juels. 2020. DECO: Liberating Web Data Using Decentralized Oracles
for TLS. In ACM CCS 2020 , Jay Ligatti, Xinming Ou, Jonathan Katz, and Gio-
vanni Vigna (Eds.). ACM Press, 1919–1938. https://doi.org/10.1145/3372297.
3417239
A Preliminaries (continued)
A.1 Cryptographic assumptions
Assumption 1 (Decisional Diffie-Hellman (DDH)) The decisional Diffie-
Hellman assumption holds in G for GrGen if for all PPT adversaries A, there
exists a negligible function negl such that:
| Pr[A(bp,gx,gy,gr) = 1]− Pr[A(bp,gx,gy,gxy) = 1]|≤ negl(λ)
where in each case the probabilities are taken over the experiment in which
GrGen(1λ) outputs bp = (p, G, ˆG, GT,e,g, ˆg), and then random x,y,r ∈ Zp are
chosen.
The DDH assumption may be defined similarly for ˆG and GT .
Assumption 2 (q-Decisional Bilinear Diffie-Hellman Inversion (q-DBDHI))
[Dodis and Yampolskiy(2005)] Let GrGen be a group generator that outputs
bp = ( G, ˆG, GT,p,e,g, ˆg). The q-Decisional Bilinear Diffie-Hellman Inversion
assumption holds for GrGen if for all PPT adversariesA, there exists a negligible
function negl such that:
 Pr[A(bp,gx, ˆgx,...,g xq
, ˆgxq
;e(g, ˆg)1/x)]
− Pr[A(bp,gx, ˆgx,...,g xq
, ˆgxq
;Γ )]
≤ negl(λ)
where the probability is taken over the internal coin tosses of A and choices of
x∈ Z∗
p and Γ∈ GT .
A.2 Shamir secret sharing
In Shamir secret sharing [Shamir(1979)], a secret value s is divided into n parts
such that anyt shares together can be used to reconstruct the secrets. However,
fewer than t shares provide no information about the secret.
Definition 6 (Shamir secret sharing (SSH)). A (n,t )-secret sharing
scheme SSH = (SSH.Share, SSH.Agg) consists of the following algorithms:
– {si}n
i=1
$
← −SSH.Sharen,t(s): Given s as input, this algorithm outputs n secret
shares, where si denotes the i-th share of s. To share a secret s into t shares,
chooset−1 random scalars (a1,...,a t−1) and construct a polynomial P (x) =
s +a1x +... +at−1xt−1. Each share i is represented by the pair (xi,P (xi)),
where the xi values are distinct and non-zero.

52 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
– s∗ ← −SSH.Aggn,t{si}i∈I: Given t shares (|I| = t) as input, this algorithm
reconstructs the secret s∗. This is achieved via Lagrange interpolation as fol-
lows: s =P
i∈Iyi·Q
j̸=i,j∈I
xj
xj−xi
, where I is the set of indices of the shares
used for reconstruction.
Definition 7 (SSH correctness). Pr[s∗ =s] = 1.
Definition 8 (SSH privacy). Requires that, given t− 1 or fewer shares of
either s1 or s0, no PPT adversary A can distinguish which message was shared.
A.3 Public key encryption (PKE)
Definition 9 (Public key encryption (PKE) scheme). Let PKE =
(PKE.KeyGen, PKE.Enc, PKE.Dec) be a public key encryption (PKE) scheme. A
PKE scheme is defined as follows:
– PKE.KeyGen (Key generation): This algorithm takes a security parameter
λ as input and outputs a pair (pk, sk), where pk is the public key and sk is the
secret (private) key. The public key pk also (implicitly) defines a corresponding
message space, denoted as MessageSpace(pk), which specifies the set of valid
plaintexts for encryption.
– PKE.Enc (Encryption): This algorithm takes the public key pk and a plain-
text message m (where m∈ MessageSpace(pk)) as input and produces a ci-
phertext C.
– PKE.Dec (Decryption): The decryption algorithm takes the private key sk
and a ciphertext C as input and outputs either the original plaintext message
m or⊥ if decryption fails.
Definition 10 (PKE correctness). A public key encryption (PKE) scheme
PKE = ( PKE.KeyGen, PKE.Enc, PKE.Dec) is said to be correct if, for all λ∈
N, for all key pairs (pk, sk) ← PKE.KeyGen(1λ), and for all messages m ∈
MessageSpace(pk),
PKE.Dec(sk, PKE.Enc(pk,m )) =m holds with overwhelming probability.
Definition 11 (PKE CPA security). A public key encryption (PKE) scheme
PKE = (PKE.KeyGen, PKE.Enc, PKE.Dec) is IND-CPA-secure if, for all PPT ad-
versariesA, the advantage AdvIND-CPA
A (λ) in the following experiment is negligible
in λ: AdvIND-CPA
A (λ)≤ negl(λ).
The experiment, denoted IND-CPAb
PKE(A,λ ), is defined between a probabilistic
polynomial-time (PPT) adversaryA and a challenger, with a security parameter
λ and a bit b∈{ 0, 1}:
1. The challenger generates a key pair (pk, sk) by running
PKE.KeyGen(1λ) and sends the public key pk to the adversary A.
2. The adversary A submits two plaintext messages (m0,m 1), ensuring that
|m0| =|m1| and m0,m 1∈ MessageSpace(pk).
3. The challenger selects a random bit b
$
← −{0, 1}, chooses one of the two plain-
texts based on b, and computes the ciphertext Cb = PKE.Enc(pk,mb).

SyRA Signatures 53
4. The challenger sends the ciphertext Cb to the adversary A.
5. The adversary A outputs a bit b′ as its guess for b. IfA does not output any
value, the guess b′ is set to 0 by default.
The adversary’s advantage AdvIND-CPA
A (λ) in this experiment is defined as:
AdvIND-CPA
A (λ) =
 Pr[IND-CPA1
PKE(A,λ ) = 1]
− Pr[IND-CPA0
PKE(A,λ ) = 1]

Definition 12 (ElGamal encryption scheme). The ElGamal encryp-
tion scheme [ElGamal(1985)], which we denote by EG, is a public key en-
cryption (PKE) scheme that operates over a prime-order cyclic group Gq
with generator g. The scheme consists of three main algorithms EG =
(EG.KeyGen, EG.Enc, EG.Dec) defined as follows:
– EG.KeyGen (Key Generation): LetG be a prime-order group generator
that outputs (q,g ), where q is a prime and g is a generator of the cyclic
group Gq. The key generation algorithm proceeds as follows:
• Take the security parameter 1λ as input.
• Sample the secret key sk =x
$
← −Zq uniformly at random.
• Compute the public key component P =gx.
• The public key is pk = (q,g, P), and the secret key is sk =x.
– EG.Enc (Encryption): To encrypt a message M∈ Gq:
• Sample a random value r
$
← −Zq.
• Compute: C1 =gr, B = Pr.
• Compute the ciphertext components: ψ = (C1, C2), where C2 = B·M.
– EG.Dec (Decryption): Given a ciphertext ψ = ( C1, C2), the decryption
process is as follows:
• Compute: B = Cx
1
• Recover the original message M by computing: M = C2· B−1.
The security of the ElGamal encryption scheme under chosen-plaintext attack
relies on the hardness of the Decisional Diffie-Hellman (DDH) problem in the
group Gq.
A.4 Commitment
Definition 13 (Commitment scheme). A commitment scheme COM =
(KeyGen, Commit, Verify) is defined by the following three algorithms:
– KeyGen(1λ): A probabilistic algorithm that takes as input a security param-
eter λ, and outputs a pair (ck, vk), where:
• ck: A commitment key used by the party to produce commitments.
• vk: A verification key used to check the validity of commitments.
In schemes with public verifiability, we assume ck = vk.

54 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
– Commit(ck,m ): A randomized algorithm that takes a commitment key ck and
a message m∈ MessageSpace(ck), and outputs a commitment c along with
an opening value d:
(c,d )← Commit(ck,m ).
The tuple (c,d ) allows the party to later prove the committed message was
m.
– Verify(vk,c,m,d ): A deterministic procedure that checks whether a commit-
ment c, when opened with value d, corresponds to the message m using the
verification key vk. The output is either accept or reject:
Verify(vk,c,m,d ) =
(
accept if (c,d ) correctly opens to m,
reject otherwise.
Definition 14 (Correctness). A commitment scheme COM =
(KeyGen, Commit, Verify) satisfies correctness if, for every security parameter λ,
every messagem∈ MessageSpace(ck), and every key pair (ck, vk)← KeyGen(1λ),
it holds that:
Verify(vk,c,m,d ) = accept
with probability 1 over the randomness of Commit, where (c,d )← Commit(ck,m ).
This property ensures that honest executions by both parties always lead to suc-
cessful verification.
Definition 15 (Hiding). Consider a publicly verifiable commitment scheme
COM = ( KeyGen, Commit, Verify). The hiding property states that no PPT ad-
versaryA can distinguish the commitments of any two equal-length messages
with significant advantage. The hiding experiment Hideb
COM(A,λ ), parameterized
by a bit b∈{ 0, 1}, proceeds as follows:
1. The challenger runs KeyGen(1λ) to generate ck = vk and gives ck toA.
2. A returns two messages (m0,m 1) of equal length from MessageSpace(ck).
3. A random bit b
$
← −{0, 1} is sampled, and (c,d )← Commit(ck,mb) is com-
puted. The challenger sends c toA.
4. A outputs a guess b′.
The adversary’s distinguishing advantage is defined by:
AdvHide
A (λ) =
Pr[Hide1
COM(A,λ ) = 1]− Pr[Hide0
COM(A,λ ) = 1]
.
The hiding property is satisfied if:
– Perfect hiding: AdvHide
A (λ) = 0 for all A.
– Computational hiding: AdvHide
A (λ)≤ negl(λ) for all PPT adversaries, where
negl(·) denotes a negligible function.
This ensures that the commitment leaks no useful information about the com-
mitted message.

SyRA Signatures 55
Definition 16 (Binding). In a (publicly verifiable) commitment scheme
COM = (KeyGen, Commit, Verify), the binding property asserts that it is infeasible
for a PPT adversary A to find two distinct openings for the same commitment.
The binding experiment BindCOM(A,λ ) runs as follows:
1. Generate keys (ck, vk)← KeyGen(1λ), and provide ck toA.
2. A returns (c,m,d,m ′,d′) with m,m′∈ MessageSpace(ck).
3. The challenger checks if:
Verify(vk,c,m,d ) = accept and Verify(vk,c,m′,d′) = accept,
and whether m̸=m′.
The adversary’s success probability is:
AdvBind
A (λ) = Pr[BindCOM(A,λ ) = 1].
A scheme satisfies binding if:
– Perfect binding: AdvBind
A (λ) = 0 for all adversaries.
– Computational binding: AdvBind
A (λ)≤ negl(λ) for all PPT adversaries.
This ensures that a commitment uniquely determines the committed message.
Definition 17 (Pedersen commitment scheme). The Pedersen commit-
ment scheme [Pedersen(1991)], denoted PCOM = ( KeyGen, Commit, Verify), is
constructed as follows:
– KeyGen(1λ): On input λ, select:
• G: A cyclic group of prime order q,
• g∈G: A generator,
• h
$
← −G: An element sampled uniformly at random, independent of g.
The commitment and verification keys are identical:
ck = vk = (G,q,g,h ).
– Commit(ck,m ): For a message m∈ Zq, choose d
$
← −Zq, and compute:
c =gd·hm.
The output is the pair (c,d ).
– Verify(vk,c,m,d ): Accept if:
gd·hm =c.
Otherwise, reject.
This scheme enjoys the following security guarantees [Micali et al.(2003), Metere
and Dong(2017)]:
– Perfect hiding: The commitment value c leaks no information about m due
to the randomness gd.
– Computational binding: It is computationally hard to find two distinct open-
ings (m,d ) and (m′,d′) such that:
gd·hm =gd′
·hm′
.

56 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
B Ideal functionalities
B.1 Non-interactive zero-knowledge (NIZK) functionality FNIZK
Groth et al. [Groth et al.(2006)] provided a formal definition of non-interactive
zero-knowledge (NIZK) in the form of an ideal functionality FNIZK. The
ideal functionality FNIZK is parameterized by a relation R and consists of
two phases: proof generation and proof verification. Upon receiving a request
(Prove, sid,x,w ) from a party P,FNIZK checks whether (x,w )∈R . If this condi-
tion does not hold, the request is ignored. Otherwise,FNIZK sends (Prove, sid,x )
to the adversaryA. Upon receiving a response ( Proof, sid,π ) fromA, the func-
tionality stores the tuple (x,π ) and sends ( Proof, sid,π ) back to P.
In our construction, we aim to ensure that the statementx is not revealed to the
adversary. Recall that during the issuance protocol, the user generates t pairs
(xi,πi) for i = 1,...,t , where each pair corresponds to the i-th issuer Issi. The
user’s statement includes secret sharings of the user’s real-world identifiers (si∈
xi, see Figure 6), which must remain confidential. Specifically, the statement xi
is sent by the user to the i-th issuer Issi (via a secure channel), where there may
be up to t− 1 malicious issuers among the t participating issuers in the issuance
process. Consequently, the adversary gains access to all t statements, including
those provided securely to the honest issuers. This implies that the adversary
also learns the shares si corresponding to honest issuers, and thus, having all t
shares would enable the reconstruction ofs. Note that this issue arises due to the
nature of the UC modeling. In real-world implementations, the proof generation
is performed locally by the (honest) user, ensuring that the adversary does not
gain access to the statement x.
A concept closely related to NIZK is the notion ofsignatures of knowledge (SoK).
SoK combines digital signatures with zero-knowledge proofs and allows a signer
to authenticate a message not only by proving possession of a secret key but
also by demonstrating knowledge of a witness w for an NP statement x∈ L.
Such a signature ensures that, upon verification, it is confirmed that the signer
possesses a valid witness for the truth of the statement. The concept of SoK
was formally defined by Chase et al. [Chase and Lysyanskaya(2006)] via an
ideal functionality FSoK. Similar to FNIZK,FSoK is for (x,w )∈R . It consists
of three primary phases: setup, signature generation, and signature verification.
UnlikeFNIZK,FSoK receives (Verify, Sign, SimSign, Extract) from the adversary
A. Upon receiving a request ( Sign, sid,m,x,w ) from a party P,FSoK checks
whether (x,w )∈R . If the check passes, FSoK computes σ← SimSign(m,x ).
UnlikeFNIZK,FSoK does not leak the statement x to the adversary.
To avoid leaking the statement to the adversary in the proof generation inter-
face, we utilize FSoK, which inherently prevents such leakage. Although FSoK
introduces a message m as part of the signature, this component is unnecessary
in our setting. Therefore, we simplify FSoK by fixing m to a predefined dummy
message for all sessions. This transforms FSoK into a form that functions as
FNIZK without the undesired statement leakage. Therefore, in the following we
present the formal definition of FSoK from [Chase and Lysyanskaya(2006)] un-

SyRA Signatures 57
der a simplifying assumption: the message m in all interfaces and algorithms is
a predefined (dummy) message, hence, we avoid addressing it. Without loss of
generality, we denote the following functionality as FNIZK.
FunctionalityFNIZK
The functionality is parameterized by a relation R. Prove, SimProve, and
Extract are descriptions of PPT TMs, and Verify is a description of a de-
terministic polytime TM.
1. Setup. Upon receiving ( Setup, sid) from some party P if this is the
first time that ( Setup, sid) is received, send ( Setup, sid) toA; upon re-
ceiving (Algorithms, sid, Prove, Verify, SimProve, Extract) fromA, store
these algorithms. Output ( Algorithms, sid, Prove, Verify) to P.
2. Proof generation. Upon receiving ( Prove, sid,x,w ) from P, if
(x,w ) /∈R , ignore. Else, compute π← SimProve(x), and check that
Verify(x,π ) = 1. If so, then output ( Proof, sid,π ) to P and record the
entry (x,π ). Else, output an error message ( Completeness error ) to P
and halt.
3. Proof verification. Upon receiving (Verify, sid,x,π ) from P: if (x,π )
is stored, then output ( Verification, sid, 1) to P. Else, let w ←
Extract(x,π ); if (x,w )∈R , output ( Verification, sid, 1) to P. Else
if Verify(x,π ) = 0, output ( Verification, sid, 0) to P. Else output an
error message (Verification error) to P and halt.
B.2 Communication channel functionality F sas
Ch
Our functionality FSyRA does not reveal the network identifiers of users to
adversary. To realize this functionality, our protocol ΠSASSI employs sender-
anonymous and secure communication channel F sas
Ch to deliver messages and
to fulfill network-level anonymity. As discussed in Section 4, regardless of the
robustness of cryptographic safeguards at the protocol level, “network leakage”
could potentially expose the parties involved in a communication. Hence, in our
formal UC modelling, a degree of sender anonymity is essential for maintaining
(UC) anonymity.
The purpose of using F sas
Ch in our description is to highlight that there is net-
work leakage and that it can compromise privacy with respect to the function-
ality. This is not specific to ΠSASSI but a common issue whenever one formalizes
any privacy-preserving primitive in the UC setting. (For example consider for-
malizing Zerocash [Ben-Sasson et al.(2014)] in the UC setting; without sender
anonymous channel it will offer no privacy whatsoever. SASSI is no different
in this respect.) The alternative approach would have been to let such leakage
come through the functionality, but this would complicate the program of the

58 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
functionality much more – we opted to avoid this. We expect that in practice,
deployments of SASSI will be used via the usual and customary compromises
people make in these settings to minimize network leakage (and this is exactly
as in Zerocash and other similar schemes), e.g., running the protocol via a VPN,
Tor [Dingledine et al.(2004)], a short-lived network identity (e.g., a computer
terminal in a library), or JAP [JAP(2009)].
FunctionalityF sas
Ch
Let S be the sender and R the receiver of a message m.
1. Upon input ( Send, sid, R,m ) from S, record a mapping P(mid) ←
(S, R,m ) where mid is chosen at random. Output (Send, sid, R, mid,|m|)
toA.
2. Upon receiving ( Ok, sid, mid) fromA, retrieve ( S, R,m )← P(mid) and
send (Received, sid, mid,m ) to R.
3. Upon receiving ( SendBack, sid, mid,m′) from R, record ( mid,m′). Out-
put (SendBack, sid, R, mid,|m′|) toA.
4. Upon receiving ( SendBackOk, sid, mid) from A, retrieve ( S, R,m ) ←
P(mid), and ( mid,m′). Send ( ReceivedBack, sid, R,m′) to S.
B.3 Broadcast functionality FB
The broadcast functionality introduced in [Garay et al.(2011)] does not pro-
vide secrecy guarantees for the broadcasted message m. Furthermore, it reveals
the identity of the sender to the recipients. In our work, we require UC-sender
anonymity (see Appendix B.2 for details), which necessitates hiding the sender’s
identity from the receiving entities. We refer to this as sender-anonymous broad-
cast. One possible approach to realize this involves using sender-anonymous
point-to-point communication channels between the sender and the receiving
servers. Subsequently, the servers can run a Byzantine agreement protocol (such
as the one proposed in [Boyle et al.(2021)]) to agree on the message content as
described in [Sarencheh et al.(2025b)].
FunctionalityFB
The broadcast functionality FB is parameterized by a set of parties I =
{Iss1,··· , Isst} and proceeds as follows.
1. Upon receiving ( Broadcast, sid, m) from a party P, record ( mid, P),
where mid is freshly sampled. Send ( Broadcasted, sid, m,mid) to all
parties in I and toA.

SyRA Signatures 59
2. Upon receiving ( Send.Back, sid, m′, mid) from some Issi∈ I, retrieve
(mid, P), and record (Issi,m′, mid, P). Output (Send, sid, Issi, mid) toA.
3. Upon receiving ( Send.Back.Ok, sid, Issi, mid) from A, retrieve
(Issi,m′, mid, P), and send ( Received, sid, Issi,m′) to P.
B.4 Distributed key generation (DKG) functionality F n,t
DKG
We model distributed key generation via the functionality Fn,t
DKG in [Doerner
et al.(2023), Katz(2024)]. (We adapt [Doerner et al.(2023)] to output public key
shares explicitly so that it is equivalent to [Katz(2024)].) The functionalityFn,t
DKG
assumes that the adversaryA can corrupt up tot−1 parties and thatA learns the
public key shares{Ai}n
i=1 of all parties. The adversary determines the secret key
shares for corrupted parties, while the remaining secret key shares are generated
uniformly at random. For concreteness, Fn,t
DKG assumes Shamir secret sharing of
the secret key α, but it can be adapted to other secret-sharing schemes. For
example, an n-out-of-n additive sharing of α can be used when t =n− 1.
FunctionalityFn,t
DKG
The functionality is parameterized by the number of partiesn, the threshold
t, and the group G with order p. The index set C denotes the parties
corrupted by the adversaryA where max|C| =t− 1.
1. Upon receiving ( DKeyGen, sid) from some party Issi, send
(DKeyGenReq, sid, Issi) toA.
2. Upon receiving ( CPoints, sid,{αi}i∈C) from A, and when
(DKeyGen, sid) is received from all parties, proceed as follows.
3. Sample α← Zp, and set A←gα.
4. Sample a random polynomial f of degree t− 1 over Zp where{f(i) =
αi}i∈C and f(0) =α.
5. For each i∈ [n], compute Ai←gf(i).
6. Send ( PublicKeys, sid,A,{Ai}n
i=1) to A, and
(Point, sid,A, f(i),{Ai}n
i=1) to each party Issi for i ∈ [n] via
private-delayed output.
B.5 Multiplication functionality Fmul
The multiplication ideal functionalityFmul involvest parties I = (Iss1,..., Isst).
It enables parties to collaboratively compute a multiplication result in the ex-
ponent without revealing their individual inputs. It is parameterized by a secret
sharing aggregation algorithm SSH.Agg, to reconstruct the secret given t shares.

60 E. Crites, A. Kiayias, M. Kohlweiss, A. Sarencheh
Operations are performed over a finite field defined by a primeq. The functional-
ity proceeds by first handling inputs from the parties. Each partyIssi∈ I submits
a message (ai,⃗bi, auxi) where auxi is used to check the well-formedness of⃗bi. Non
well-formed inputs or those from entities outside the set I are ignored. Once all
t parties provide their inputs, the functionality employs SSH.Agg to reconstruct
the valuesa andb from their respective t shares. Subsequently, the functionality
performs the multiplicationϕ =a·b mod q. The group elementsgϕ−1
, and ˆgϕ−1
are then sent to all parties where g and ˆg are source group generators.
See Section 5 for implementation details ofFmul, based on [Doerner et al.(2023)].
Below, we summarize the high-level structure of the protocol introduced in [Do-
erner et al.(2023)]. The protocol begins with the user providing a message m to
be signed and a subset I⊆ [n] representing the indices of the selected signing
servers. Assume that these t servers collectively possess a secret sharing r of a
random scalar r, along with common knowledge of uniformly chosen values s
and e. Furthermore, suppose the servers hold a secret sharing u of the product
u =r· (x +e). Each server Issi can locally compute:
Ri :=

g1·hs
1·
Y
k∈[ℓ]
hmk
k+1


ri
If each participant Issi then transmits the tuple (s,e,R i,ui) to the user, the user
is able to reconstruct:
A :=
 Y
i∈I
Ri
!(
Q
i∈Iui)
−1
=

g1·hs
1·
Y
k∈[ℓ]
hmk
k+1


r·(r·(x+e))−1
which constitutes a BBS+ signature on the message m. Both s and e can be
generated using a commit-and-open coin tossing mechanism. The shares r are
locally sampled by the servers, and a two-round secure multiplication protocol is
employed to compute shares of the pairwise productsri·lagrange(I,j, 0)·p(j) for
each pair (i,j )∈ I× I. Here, lagrange( I,j, 0) refers to the Lagrange coefficient
used by serverIssj for reconstructing the secret at the origin using Shamir’s secret
sharing scheme over the setI, andp denotes a Shamir secret sharing of the secret
valuex. Each server Issi computes its shareui by adding its local shares of these
pairwise products with ri·e. To protect against incorrect inputs from corrupted
servers, the protocol rerandomizes the multiplier inputs by adding secret sharings
of zero. This design ensures that any bias introduced into the outputs of honest
parties, as a result of adversarial misbehavior, remains independent of their
secret inputs. The generation of sharings of 0 is done non-interactively using
established techniques.

SyRA Signatures 61
FunctionalityFmul
The functionalityFmul is parameterized byt parties I = (Iss1,..., Isst). Let
SSH.Agg be the secret sharing aggregation algorithm.
1. Input. Upon receiving ( Compute, sid|| id|| I,ai,⃗bi, auxi) from Issi, ig-
nore if Issi /∈ I where sid = ( sid′, I). Else, parse ⃗bi = (b(1)
i ,b (2)
i ), and
auxi = (zi,{ ˆivkk}t
k=1, comI = {comk}t
k=1). Ignore if ˆivki ̸= ˆgb(1)
i or
if comi̸=gb(2)
i ·hzi. Else, record (ai,⃗bi, auxi, Issi, I, id). Upon receiving
messages from allt parties in I with id, ignore if not all ({ ˆivkk}t
k=1, comI)
are the same int inputs received. Else, callψ← −SSH.Agg{ψi}∀i∈index(I)
forψi =ai and (b(1)
i +b(2)
i ) generating a, and b. Sample a fresh α, and
setf(α)← (a,b, I). Leak (Compute, sid|| id|| I,α ) to the adversaryA.
2. Output. Upon receiving ( Compute.Ok, sid|| id|| I,α ) from the adver-
saryA, ignore if f(α) = ⊥. Else, retrieve f(α) = ( a,b, I). Compute
ϕ←a·b mod q, K←gϕ−1
, and ˆK← ˆgϕ−1
. Output ( Computed, sid||
id|| I,K, ˆK) to each party Issi∈ I.
B.6 Random oracle functionality FRO
FRO models an idealized hash function [Camenisch et al.(2018)] and is defined
as follows. The third check is included to avoid output collisions for simplicity,
though it is removed in realizations. We follow this approach to streamline the
formal analysis, e.g., similar to [Rial and Piotrowska(2022)].
FunctionalityFRO
The functionality is parameterized by a message spaceM and output space
H.FRO functions as follows:
Upon receiving ( Query, sid,m ) from a party P:
1. Ignore if m /∈M.
2. If there exists a tuple ( sid,m′,h′) where m′ =m, set h←h′.
3. Else, select ¯h
$
← −H such that there is no stored tuple (sid,m∗,h′) where
h′ = ¯h. Set h← ¯h.
4. Store ( sid,m,h ).
5. Output ( Query.Re, sid,h ) to party P.