W alrus: An Efficient Decentralized Storage Network
George Danezis
Mysten Labs & UCL
London, UK
george@mystenlabs.com
Giacomo Giuliari
Mysten Labs
London, UK
giacomo@mystenlabs.com
Lefteris Kokoris Kogias
Mysten Labs
Athens, Greece
lefteris@mystenlabs.com
Markus Legner
Mysten Labs
Zurich, Switzerland
markus@mystenlabs.com
Jean-Pierre Smith
Mysten Labs
Zurich, Switzerland
jean-pierre@mystenlabs.com
Alberto Sonnino
Mysten Labs & UCL
London, UK
alberto@mystenlabs.com
Karl Wüst
Mysten Labs
Zurich, Switzerland
karl@mystenlabs.com
Abstract
Decentralized storage faces a fundamental trade-off between repli-
cation overhead, recovery efficiency, and security guarantees. Cur-
rent approaches either rely on full replication, incurring substantial
storage costs, or employ erasure-coding schemes that struggle with
efficient recovery, especially under high churn. We presentW alrus,
a decentralized blob storage system that addresses these limitations
through multiple technical innovations.
At the core ofW alrusisRed Stuff, a two-dimensional erasure-
coding protocol that achieves high security with only a4.5× repli-
cation factor, while providing self-healing of lost data. This means
that recovery is done without centralized coordination and requires
bandwidth proportional to the amount of lost data.
However,Red Stuffon its own is not sufficient forW alrus, as it
is designed with a static set of participants in mind. To further sup-
port decentralization, we also introduce a multi-stage epoch-change
protocol that efficiently handles storage node churn while main-
taining uninterrupted availability during committee transitions.
Our system incorporates authenticated data structures to defend
against malicious clients and ensure data consistency throughout
storage and retrieval.Walrushas been deployed in production
since March 2025 and has secured 686 TB of data by July 2026. We
conduct an experimental evaluation of the deployed system and
demonstrate thatW alrusachieves practical performance at scale
and outperforms the Arweave decentralized storage system.
Keywords
Decentralized storage; Byzantine fault tolerance; Blockchain; Era-
sure coding
1 Introduction
Blockchains support decentralized computation through the State
Machine Replication (SMR) paradigm [20]. However, they are prac-
tically limited to distributed applications that require little data for
This is the authors’ version of a paper published under a CC BY 4.0 license in the
Proceedings of the 2026 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications
Security (CCS ’26). The definitive version is available at https://doi.org/10.1145/3830454.
3832580.
operation. Since SMR requires all validators to replicate data fully,
it results in a large replication factor ranging from100× to1000×,
depending on the number of validators in each blockchain.
While full data replication is needed for computing on state,
it introduces substantial overhead when applications only need
to store and retrieve binary large objects (blobs) without com-
puting on them. 1 Dedicated decentralized storage networks [ 3]
emerged to store blobs more efficiently. For example, early networks
like IPFS [2] offer censorship resistance, reliability, and availability
through replication [28].
Protocols for decentralized storage generally fall into two main
categories. The first category includes systems usingreplication,
with Filecoin [17] and Arweave [27] serving as prominent examples.
The main advantage of these systems is the complete availability
of the blob on selected storage nodes, which allows for easy access
and seamless migration if a storage node goes offline. This setup
enables a permissionless environment since storage nodes do not
need to rely on each other for file recovery.
However, the reliability of these systems hinges on the robust-
ness of the selected storage nodes. For instance, assuming a classic
1/3static adversary model and an unbounded pool of candidate
nodes, achieving “twelve nines” of durability—a probability be-
low10−12 of losing access to a file—requires storing more than 25
copies on the network.2 This results in a25× storage overhead. A
further challenge arises from Sybil attacks [ 7], where malicious
actors can pretend to store multiple copies of a file, undermining
the system’s integrity.
The second category of decentralized storage services [10] uses
Reed-Solomon (RS) encoding[ 19]. RS encoding reduces replication
requirements significantly. For example, in a setting similar to that
of a blockchain, with𝑛 nodes, of which1/3may be malicious, and
in an asynchronous network, RS encoding can achieve sufficient
security with the equivalent of just3× storage overhead. This is
possible since RS encoding splits a file into smaller pieces, which we
1A recent example includes “inscriptions” on Bitcoin and other chains; see
https://medium.com/@thevalleylife/crypto-terms-explained-exploring-bitcoin-
inscriptions-51699dc218d2.
2The chance that all 25 storage nodes are adversarial and delete the file is3 −25 =
1.18×10 −12.
1
arXiv:2505.05370v4  [cs.DC]  10 Aug 2026

George Danezis et al.
callslivers, each representing a fraction of the original file. Any set
of slivers greater in total size than the original file can be decoded
back into the original file.
However, an issue with erasure coding arises when a storage
node fails and needs to be replaced by another. Unlike fully repli-
cated systems, where data can simply be copied from one node
to another, RS-encoded systems require that all existing storage
nodes send their slivers to the substitute node. The substitute can
then recover the lost sliver, but this process results in O(|blob|)
data being transmitted across the network. Frequent recoveries can
erode the storage savings achieved through reduced replication. As
a result, these systems need low churn among storage nodes, which
is incompatible with permissionless settings.
In this work, we introduceW alrus, a new approach to decentral-
ized blob storage. It follows an erasure-coding architecture in order
to scale to hundreds of storage nodes, providing high resilience at a
low storage overhead. At the heart ofW alruslies a new encoding
protocol, calledRed Stuff, which uses a novel two-dimensional
(2D) encoding algorithm that isself-healing. Specifically, it enables
the recovery of lost slivers using bandwidth proportional to the
amount of lost data (O(|blob|/𝑛) in our case). Moreover,Red Stuff
incorporates authenticated data structures to defend against ma-
licious clients, ensuring that the data remains consistent. Table 1
comparesW alruswith the two existing approaches.
One additional challenge forWalrus, and in general for any
encoding-based decentralized storage system, is operating securely
across epochs, each managed by a different committee of storage
nodes. This is challenging because we want to ensure uninterrupted
availability to both read and write blobs during the naturally occur-
ring churn of a permissionless system. Yet, if we keep writing data
to the nodes about to depart, the departing nodes must keep trans-
ferring that data to the nodes replacing them. This creates a race
for the resources of those nodes, which will either stop accepting
writes or fail to ever transfer responsibility.W alrusdeals with this
through its novel multi-stage epoch-change protocol that naturally
fits the principles of decentralized storage systems.
In summary, we make the following contributions:
• We define the problem of Asynchronous Complete Data Storage
and proposeRed Stuff, the first protocol to solve it efficiently
even under Byzantine faults (section 3).
• We presentW alrus, the first permissionless decentralized stor-
age protocol designed for low replication cost and the ability to
efficiently recover lost data due to faults or participant churn
(section 4).
• We provide a production-grade implementation ofW alrusand
deploy both a public testnet and a mainnet. We then measure
its performance on testnet and report passive observations from
mainnet (section 7).
2 Models and Definitions
2.1 Network and Adversarial Assumptions
W alrusruns in epochs, each with a static set of storage nodes. At
the end of the epoch,𝑛= 3𝑓+ 1storage nodes are elected as part
of the storage committee of the next epoch and each one controls
a storageshardsuch that a malicious adversary can control up
to 𝑓 of them.3 The corrupted nodes can deviate arbitrarily from
the protocol. The remaining nodes are honest and adhere to the
protocol. If a node controlled by the adversary at epoch 𝑒 is not
a part of the storage node set at epoch 𝑒+ 1, then the adversary
can adapt and compromise a different node at𝑒+ 1after the epoch
change completes.
We assume every pair of honest nodes has access to a reliable
and authenticated channel. The network is asynchronous, so the
adversary can arbitrarily delay or reorder messages between honest
nodes, but must eventually deliver every message unless the epoch
ends first. If the epoch ends, then the messages can be dropped.
2.2 Erasure Codes
As part ofW alrus, we propose a protocol for Asynchronous Com-
plete Data Storage (ACDS) that uses a linear erasure-coding scheme.
Although it is not necessary for the core parts of the protocol,
we also assume, for some of our optimizations, that the encod-
ing scheme issystematic, meaning that the source symbols of the
encoding scheme also appear as part of its output symbols.
Let Encode(𝐵,𝑡,𝑛) be the encoding algorithm. Its output is 𝑛
symbols such that any𝑡 can be used to reconstruct𝐵. This happens
by first splitting𝐵 into𝑡 symbols of sizeO(|𝐵|/𝑡) which are called
sourcesymbols. These are then extended by generating 𝑛−𝑡 repair
symbols for a total of 𝑛 output symbols. On the decoding side,
anyone can callDecode(𝑇,𝑡,𝑛) where𝑇 is a set of at least𝑡 correctly
encoded symbols, and it returns the blob𝐵.
ACDS shares some similarities with Asynchronous Verifiable In-
formation Dispersal (AVID) [5, 15], given that the main goal of both
protocols is to distribute data. However, they also have significant
differences; most notably, AVID protocols do not provide complete-
ness, which is critical forWalrus. A more in-depth discussion is
provided in section 8.
2.3 Blockchain Substrate
W alrususes an external blockchain as a black box for all control
operations that happen onW alrus. A blockchain protocol can be
abstracted as a computational black box that accepts a concurrent
set of transactions, each with an input message Tx(𝑀) and outputs
a total order of updates to be applied to the stateRes(seq,𝑈) . We as-
sume that the blockchain does not deviate from this abstraction and
does not censor Tx(𝑀) indefinitely. Any high-performance modern
SMR protocol satisfies these requirements; in our implementation,
we use Sui [4].
3 Asynchronous Complete Data Storage (ACDS)
We first define the problem of (Asynchronous) Complete Data Stor-
age in a distributed system and describe our solution for an asyn-
chronous network, which we callRed Stuff. We then show its
correctness and complexity.
3For the protocol description, we identify each storage node with a single shard,
which lets us state all thresholds over nodes. In general, the number of shards is a
fixed protocol parameter and a node may control several of them, counting with the
corresponding weight towards every threshold; sections 4.5 and 7 describe how shards
are assigned to nodes and reassigned across epochs.
2

W alrus: An Efficient Decentralized Storage Network
Table 1: Comparison of decentralized storage approaches.
Replication
for10−12
Write/Read
Cost
Single Shard
Recovery
Non-blocking
Epoch Change
Replication [17, 27]25× O(𝑛|blob|) O(|blob|)No
Classic ECC [21, 26]3× O(|blob|) O(|blob|)No
W alrus+Red Stuff(this work)4.5× O(|blob|) O(|blob|/𝑛)Yes
3.1 Problem Statement
In a nutshell, a Complete Data Storage protocol allows a writer to
write a blob to a network of storage nodes (Write Completeness);
ensures that readers read it consistently despite a potentially mali-
cious writer (Read Consistency); and ensures that any reader can
read it despite some failures and malicious behavior among storage
nodes (Validity). More formally:
Definition 1(Complete Data Storage).Given a network of 𝑛=
3𝑓+ 1nodes, where up to 𝑓 are malicious, let𝐵 be a blob that a writer
𝑊 wants to store within the network and share with a set of readers
𝑅. A protocol for Complete Data Storage guarantees three properties:
• Write Completeness: If a writer𝑊 is honest, then every honest node
holding a commitment to blob 𝐵 eventually holds a part 𝑝 (derived
from𝐵), such that𝐵can be recovered fromO(|𝐵|/|𝑝|)parts.
• Read Consistency: Two honest readers, 𝑅1 and𝑅2, reading a suc-
cessfully written blob 𝐵 either both succeed and return 𝐵 or both
return⊥.
• Validity: If an honest writer𝑊 successfully writes𝐵, then an honest
reader𝑅holding a commitment to𝐵can successfully read𝐵.
Definition 2(Asynchronous Complete Data Storage).A Complete
Data Storage protocol that is secure in asynchronous networks is an
Asynchronous Complete Data Storage (ACDS) protocol.
3.2 Strawman Design
In this section, we iterate through two strawman designs and dis-
cuss their inefficiencies.
Strawman I: Replication.The simplest protocol uses replication
in the spirit of Filecoin [ 17] and Arweave [ 27]. The writer 𝑊
broadcasts its blob𝐵 along with a binding commitment to𝐵 (e.g.,
𝐻𝐵 =hash(𝐵) ) to all storage nodes and then waits to receive 𝑓+ 1
receipt acknowledgments. These acknowledgments form an avail-
ability certificate, which guarantees availability as at least one
acknowledgment is from an honest node. The writer can publish
this certificate on the blockchain, which ensures that it is visible to
every other honest node, which can then successfully Read(𝐵). This
achieves Write Completeness since eventually all honest nodes will
hold blob 𝐵 locally. The rest of the properties also hold trivially.
Note that the reader never reads⊥.
Although the full-replication protocol is simple, it requires the
writer to send data of sizeO(𝑛|𝐵|) over the network, which is also
the total cost of storage. Additionally, if the network is asynchro-
nous, it can cost up to𝑓+ 1requests to guarantee a correct replica is
contacted, which would lead toO(𝑛|𝐵|) cost per recovering storage
node with a total cost ofO(𝑛 2|𝐵|) over the network. Similarly, even
S31
S11
S21
S41
Encode: 
from f+1 to nslivers
Figure 1: Encoding a blob in one dimension. First, the blob is
split into 𝑓+ 1systematic slivers and then a further2 𝑓 repair
slivers are encoded.
a read can be very inefficient in asynchrony, as the reader might
need to send𝑓+1requests with a cost ofO(𝑛|𝐵|).
Strawman II: Encode & Share.To reduce the upfront data dissemina-
tion cost, some distributed storage protocols such as Storj [21] and
Sia [26] use RS coding [19]. The writer𝑊 divides its blob𝐵 into𝑓+ 1
slivers and encodes2𝑓 extra repair slivers (figure 1). Thanks to the
encoding properties, any𝑓+ 1slivers can be used to recover𝐵. Each
sliver has a size ofO(|𝐵|/𝑛) . The writer𝑊 then commits to the
slivers using a binding commitment such as a Merkle tree [12] and
sends each node a separate sliver together with a proof of inclusion.
The nodes receive their slivers and check them against the commit-
ment; if the sliver is correctly committed, they acknowledge by sign-
ing the commitment. The writer𝑊 can then generate an availability
certificate from2𝑓+1signatures and post it on the blockchain.
A reader continuously requests slivers from the nodes until it
receives𝑓+ 1valid replies (i.e., replies that are verified against the
commitment). The reader is guaranteed to receive them since at
least𝑓+ 1honest nodes have stored their sliver. The reader then
reconstructs blob𝐵 from the slivers and additionally re-encodes
the recovered value and recomputes the commitment [ 6, 12]. If
writer𝑊 was honest, the recomputed commitment will match
the commitment from the availability certificate and the reader
outputs𝐵. Otherwise, writer𝑊 may not have committed to a valid
encoding, in which case the commitments do not match and the
reader outputs⊥.
As before, the nodes that did not get slivers during the sharing
phase can recover them by reading 𝐵. If the output of the read
operation is⊥, the node returns⊥ on all future reads. Otherwise,
the node stores its encoded sliver and discards the rest of𝐵. Note
that this recovery process is expensive: recovery costsO(|𝐵|) even
if the storage cost afterwards isO(|𝐵|/𝑛).
This second protocol reduces the dissemination costs signifi-
cantly at the expense of extra computation (encoding/decoding
3

George Danezis et al.
and committing to slivers from𝐵). Disseminating blob𝐵 only costs
O(|𝐵|) , which is the same cost as reading it. However, complete
dispersal still costs O(𝑛|𝐵|) , because, as we saw, the process of
recovering missing slivers requires downloading the entire blob𝐵.
Given that there can be up to 𝑓 storage nodes that did not manage
to get their sliver from writer 𝑊 and need to invoke the recov-
ery protocol, the protocol hasO(𝑛|𝐵|) total cost. This is not only
important during the initial dispersal, but also in cases where the
storage node set changes (at epoch boundaries) as the new set of
storage nodes needs to read its slivers by recovering them from the
previous set of storage nodes.
3.3 Final Design:Red Stuff
In this section we present the high-level design ofRed Stuff. The
algorithms can be found in section 5 and the proofs in section 6.
The encoding protocol above achieves the objective of a low
overhead factor with very high assurance, but is still not suitable
for a long-lasting deployment. The main challenge is that in a long-
running large-scale system, storage nodes routinely experience
faults, lose their slivers, and have to be replaced. Additionally, in
a permissionless system, there is some natural churn of storage
nodes even when they are well incentivized to participate.
Both of these cases would result in enormous amounts of data
being transferred over the network, equal to the total size of data
being stored, in order to recover the slivers for new storage nodes.
This is prohibitively expensive. We instead want the system to be
self-healing such that the cost of recovery is proportional only to
the data that needs to be recovered and scales inversely with𝑛.
Red Stuffachieves this. It encodes blobs in two dimensions (2D
encoding): The primary dimension is equivalent to the RS encoding
used in prior systems. However, in order to allow efficient recovery
of slivers of𝐵 we also encode on a secondary dimension.Red Stuff
is based on linear erasure coding (see section 2) and the Twin-
code framework [18], which provides erasure-coded storage with
efficient recovery in a crash-tolerant setting with trusted writers.
We adapt this framework to make it suitable in the Byzantine fault-
tolerant (BFT) setting with a single set of storage nodes, and we
add additional optimizations that we describe further below.
Encoding.Our starting point is the second strawman that splits the
blob into𝑓+ 1slivers. Instead of simply encoding repair slivers, we
first add one more dimension to the splitting process: the original
blob is split into 𝑓+ 1primary slivers (horizontal in the figure)
and into2𝑓+ 1secondary slivers (vertical in the figure). Figure 2
illustrates this process. As a result, the blob is now split into(𝑓+
1)( 2𝑓+ 1) symbols that can be visualized in an[𝑓+ 1, 2𝑓+ 1] matrix.
Given this matrix we then generate repair symbols in both di-
mensions. We take each of the2𝑓+ 1columns (of size 𝑓+ 1) and
extend them to𝑛 symbols such that there are𝑛 rows. We assign each
of the rows as theprimary sliverof a node (figure 2a). This almost
triples the total amount of data we need to send and is very close to
what 1D encoding does in Strawman II. In order to provide efficient
recovery for each sliver, we also take the initial [𝑓+ 1, 2𝑓+ 1]
matrix and extend each of the𝑓+ 1rows (of size2 𝑓+ 1) with repair
symbols to𝑛 symbols (figure 2b) using our encoding scheme. This
creates𝑛 columns, which we assign as thesecondary sliverof each
node, respectively.
S31
S11
S21
S41
S32
S12
S22
S42
S33
S13
S23
S43
Encode columns: 
from f+1 to n
primary
slivers
(a) Primary encoding in two dimensions. The blob is split into2 𝑓+ 1
columns and 𝑓+ 1rows. Each column is encoded as a separate blob
with2𝑓 repair symbols. Then each resulting row is the primary sliver
of the respective node.
S14
S24
S11
S21
S12
S22
S13
S23
Encode rows: 
from 2f+1 to n
secondary slivers
(b) Secondary encoding in two dimensions. The blob is split into
2𝑓+ 1columns and 𝑓+ 1rows. Each row is encoded as a separate blob
with𝑓 repair symbols. Then each resulting column is the secondary
sliver of the respective node.
Figure 2: 2D encoding /Red Stuff.
For each sliver, we compute a vector commitment over all sym-
bols of the extended sliver (i.e., including the repair symbols), form-
ing thesliver commitment. The commitments for every sliver form
the blobmetadata. Using these, nodes can later, when queried for
a single symbol, prove that the symbol they return is the sym-
bol originally written, which enables Byzantine fault tolerance for
Red Stuff. A vector commitment to the metadata then forms the
blob commitment.
Write Protocol.The Write protocol ofRed Stuffuses a pattern
similar to that of the RS-code protocol. The writer𝑊 first encodes
the blob and creates a sliver pair for each node. A sliver pair𝑖 is the
pair of the𝑖th primary and secondary slivers. There are𝑛= 3𝑓+ 1
sliver pairs, one per node.
Then,𝑊 sends the metadata (i.e., all sliver commitments) to
every node, along with the respective sliver pair. The nodes check
their own sliver pair against the commitments, recompute the blob
commitment, and reply with a signed acknowledgment if all checks
pass. Once2𝑓+ 1signatures are collected, 𝑊 aggregates them into
a certificate and posts it on-chain tocertifythe blob’s availability.
The nodes then keep openings of the blob commitment to their
sliver commitments, locally encode the metadata with a 1D(𝑓+ 1)-
out-of-𝑛 encoding (along with another vector commitment to the
parts of the encoded metadata), and keep the part assigned to them,
together with the opening of their part. This is needed since the
metadata needs to be available for nodes that need to recover their
slivers (seeSliver Healingbelow). However, fully replicating the
metadata would result in a quadratic overhead, while this approach
reduces the overhead to a constant per node (i.e., from quadratic
4

W alrus: An Efficient Decentralized Storage Network
to linear system-wide overhead). Our production deployment cur-
rently forgoes this optimization and stores the metadata in full on
every node.
In theoretical asynchronous network models with reliable deliv-
ery, the above would result in all correct nodes eventually receiving
a sliver pair from an honest writer. However, in practical proto-
cols, the writer needs to stop retransmitting. It is safe to stop the
retransmission after2𝑓+ 1signatures are collected, leading to at
least𝑓+ 1correct nodes (out of the2 𝑓+ 1that responded) holding
a sliver pair for the blob.
Read Protocol.The Read protocol is similar to the one for one-
dimensional RS codes. It starts with𝑅 collecting the metadata, i.e.,
the list of sliver commitments for the blob commitment. To do so,
𝑅 requests the 1D encoded metadata parts from the nodes along
with the opening proofs for the encoded metadata. Since at least
𝑓+ 1of any2 𝑓+ 1replies originate from honest nodes, the vector
commitment on which the majority of the replies agree is the correct
one; parts whose openings do not verify against it are discarded
before decoding.
Since honest nodes only store metadata that they verified against
id when it was written, this binds the decoded metadata to the blob.
Then𝑅 requests a read for the blob commitment from all nodes and
they respond with the primary sliver they hold (this may happen
gradually to save bandwidth). Each response is checked against the
corresponding commitments in the commitment set for the blob.
When𝑓+ 1correct primary slivers are collected, 𝑅 decodes𝐵, re-
encodes it, and recomputes the metadata. If it matches the metadata
retrieved earlier, then𝑅outputs𝐵; otherwise, it outputs⊥.
Sliver Healing.The big advantage ofRed Stuffcompared to the
RS-code protocol is its self-healing property. This comes into play
when nodes that did not receive their slivers directly from𝑊 try to
recover them. Any storage node can recover its secondary sliver by
asking𝑓+ 1storage nodes for the symbols that exist in their row,
which should also exist in the (extended) column of the requesting
node (figures 3a to 3c). This means that eventually all2𝑓+ 1honest
nodes will have secondary slivers. At that point, any node can also
recover its primary sliver by asking the2 𝑓+ 1honest nodes for
the symbols in their column (figure 3d) that should also exist in the
(extended) row of the requesting storage node. In each case, the
responding node also sends the opening for the requested symbol
of the commitment of the source sliver. This allows the receiving
node to verify that it received the symbol intended by the writer
𝑊, which ensures correct decoding if𝑊was honest.
Since the size of a symbol isO(|𝐵|/𝑛 2), and each storage node
will downloadO(𝑛) total symbols, the cost per node remains at
O(|𝐵|/𝑛) and the total cost to recover the blob is O(|𝐵|) , which
is equivalent to the cost of a Read and of a Write. As a result, by
usingRed Stuff, the communication complexity of the protocol is
(almost4) independent of𝑛, making the protocol scalable.
Security.Section 6 provides proofs thatRed Stuffsatisfies all prop-
erties of an ACDS. Informally, Write Completeness is ensured by
the fact that a correct writer will confirm that at least 𝑓+ 1correct
nodes received sliver pairs before stopping retransmissions. The
4Depends on the vector commitment scheme used.
sliver recovery algorithm can then ensure that the remaining hon-
est nodes can efficiently recover their slivers from these, until all
honest nodes eventually hold their respective sliver, or can prove
that the encoding was incorrect. Validity holds due to the fact that
2𝑓+ 1correct nodes will eventually hold correct sliver pairs, and
therefore a reader that contacts all nodes will eventually get enough
slivers to recover the blob. Read Consistency holds since two correct
readers that decode a blob from potentially different sets of slivers,
re-encode it and check the correctness of the encoding. Either both
output the same blob if it was correctly encoded or both output⊥
if it was incorrectly encoded.
Discussion on Replication Cost.The benefits ofRed Stuffdo not
come for free. There is an increase in the total storage cost of the
system compared to classic BFT erasure codes, from3 × to4.5×.
But this is necessary, as we need the extra information to allow for
efficient recovery. Without it, the recovery cost for a single sliver
would beO(|𝐵|)instead ofO(|𝐵|/𝑛).
A naive application of our 2D encoding in which nodes store
fully extended slivers would lead to a storage amplification of9×.
However, nodes only store a sufficient number of symbols (2𝑓+ 1for
primary,𝑓+ 1for secondary) that allows them to locally decode the
rest of the extended sliver when they need to communicate symbols
that are not stored to support another node’s recovery, resulting
in a factor4 .5× instead. This trades CPU for storage, which is a
favorable trade-off forW alrusas it has minimal CPU requirements.
Note additionally that we do not use a symmetric [𝑓+ 1,𝑓+ 1]
matrix, as it would result in double the replication cost. Instead, our
design achieves the minimum replication cost at the expense of a
slightly more structured recovery procedure.
4W alrus: A Decentralized Blob Store
The previous section presentedRed Stuff, an encoding algorithm
designed for efficient recovery. However, an encoding algorithm
alone is not sufficient for a complete storage system. In this section,
we presentW alrus, which integrates an encoding algorithm with
a blockchain that serves as a control plane for metadata and gover-
nance. Within an epoch, clients interact withW alrusthrough two
operations: writing blobs and reading blobs.
Walrusrequires an Asynchronous Complete Data Storage
(ACDS) protocol and a blockchain to coordinate storage nodes
and track metadata. Our implementation usesRed Stuff(sec-
tion 3.3) instantiated with Reed-Solomon codes [19] for the erasure
coding, Merkle trees [ 12] for the vector commitments, and the
Sui blockchain [ 4] as the control plane. These choices are not
fundamental;Walruscan use any components that satisfy the
requirements in section 2.
Beyond basic read and write operations,W alrusmust also han-
dle an additional concern: storage nodes may join or leave the
system over time. Section 4.5 presents our epoch-change algorithm,
which enables permissionless participation of hundreds of nodes
with seamless handover between committees.
4.1 Writing a Blob
The process of writing a blob inW alruscan be seen in algorithm 3
and figure 4. The process begins with the writer ( ➊) encoding a
blob usingRed Stuff. This process yields sliver pairs, a list of sliver
5

George Danezis et al.
S31
S11
S21
S32
S12
S33
S13
S23
S14
S31
S11
S21
S41
S32
S12
S33
S13
S23
S43
S34
S14
S24
S31
S11
S21
S41
S32
S12
S33
S13
S23
S43
S34
S44
S14
S24
S31
S11
S21
S41
S32
S12
S42
S33
S13
S23
S43
S34
S44
(a) Nodes 1 (green) and 3 (red) hold a primary and secondary sliver
each, corresponding to an unextended row and column, respectively.
S31
S11
S21
S32
S12
S33
S13
S23
S14
S31
S11
S21
S41
S32
S12
S33
S13
S23
S43
S34
S14
S24
S31
S11
S21
S41
S32
S12
S33
S13
S23
S43
S34
S44
S14
S24
S31
S11
S21
S41
S32
S12
S42
S33
S13
S23
S43
S34
S44
(b) Nodes 1 and 3 extend their slivers and send the intersection of the
resulting rows/columns with the columns/rows of node 4 to node 4
(bold green and red).
S31
S11
S21
S32
S12
S33
S13
S23
S14
S31
S11
S21
S41
S32
S12
S33
S13
S23
S43
S34
S14
S24
S31
S11
S21
S41
S32
S12
S33
S13
S23
S43
S34
S44
S14
S24
S31
S11
S21
S41
S32
S12
S42
S33
S13
S23
S43
S34
S44
(c) Node 4 uses the 𝑓+ 1symbols on its column to recover the missing
symbols of its extended secondary sliver (purple). It then sends any
other recovering node the recovered intersections of this column
with their row.
S31
S11
S21
S32
S12
S33
S13
S23
S14
S31
S11
S21
S41
S32
S12
S33
S13
S23
S43
S34
S14
S24
S31
S11
S21
S41
S32
S12
S33
S13
S23
S43
S34
S44
S14
S24
S31
S11
S21
S41
S32
S12
S42
S33
S13
S23
S43
S34
S44
(d) Node 4 uses the 𝑓+ 1symbols on its row that it received from
nodes 1 and 3, symbol S44, which it recovered in the previous step
(purple), and at least 𝑓− 1further symbols sent by other nodes after
they recover their own secondary slivers (not needed in this example)
to recover the missing symbols of its primary sliver (teal).
Figure 3: Nodes 1 and 3 help node 4 recover its sliver pair.
Blockchain
N1
N2
N4
N3
User
4
5
3
1
2
build 
blob id
buy
space
collect
acks
publish
PoA
build
PoA
Figure 4:W alruswrite flow. The writer generates the blob
ID of the file to store, acquires storage space through the
blockchain, submits the encoded file toW alrus, collects2𝑓+ 1
acknowledgments, and submits them as proof of availability
to the blockchain.
commitments, and a blob commitment. The writer derives ablob ID
id by hashing the blob commitment with additional metadata such
as the length of the file and the type of the encoding (algorithm 1).
Then, the writer (➋) submits a transaction on the blockchain to
acquire sufficient space for the blob to be stored during a sequence
of epochs, and toregisterthe blob. The blob ID and the blob size are
sent. The blockchain smart contract needs to secure sufficient space
to store both the encoded slivers on each node and all metadata
associated with the commitments for the blob. Some payment may
be sent along with the transaction to secure empty space, or empty
space over epochs can be a resource that is attached to this request
to be used. Our implementation allows for both options.
Once the register transaction commits (➌), the writer informs
the storage nodes of their obligation to store the slivers of the blob
identified by id, sending them the transaction together with the
commitments and the primary and secondary slivers assigned to
the respective storage nodes along with proofs that the slivers are
consistent with the published id. This proof is the list of sliver
commitments itself: the storage node recomputes id from the com-
mitments and checks that it matches the registered blob ID; it then
recomputes the commitment of each of the two slivers it received
and compares the results against the corresponding entries (algo-
rithm 1). After the sliver pairs and commitments are verified and
stored, the node responds with a signed acknowledgment overid.
Finally, the writer waits to collect2 𝑓+ 1signed acknowledg-
ments (➍), which constitute an availability certificate. This cer-
tificate is then published on-chain ( ➎), which denotes thePoint
of A vailability(PoA) for the blob inWalrus. The PoA signals the
obligation for storage nodes to keep the slivers available for reads.
At this point, the writer can delete the blob from local storage and
go offline. Additionally, this PoA can be used as proof of availability
of the blob by the writer to third-party users and smart contracts.
Nodes listen to the blockchain for events indicating that a blob
reached its PoA. If they do not hold sliver pairs for this blob, they
execute the recovery process to get commitments and sliver pairs
for all blobs past their PoA. This ensures that eventually all correct
nodes will hold sliver pairs for all blobs.
4.2 Reading a Blob
Reading a blob proceeds in three phases: metadata retrieval, sliver
collection, and reconstruction with verification. Given a blob ID
6

W alrus: An Efficient Decentralized Storage Network
id, the client first requests the metadata from the storage nodes.
Once it has retrieved the metadata, the client proceeds to request
primary slivers. The client collects primary slivers from storage
nodes, verifying each against the sliver commitments from the
metadata. After obtaining𝑓+ 1valid slivers, the client reconstructs
the blob using erasure decoding.
The final verification step ensures consistency: the client re-
encodes the reconstructed blob and recomputes the metadata. If this
matches the metadata retrieved earlier, the client outputs the blob;
otherwise, the encoding was inconsistent and the client outputs
⊥. This check guarantees that all honest readers either obtain the
same blob or reject it entirely—a property that follows directly from
Red Stuff’s guarantees. In the fault-free case, the total download
is only slightly larger than the original blob size, since primary
slivers contain the blob data with modest redundancy overhead.
Moreover, in a steady state, reads are still available with up to2𝑓
faulty shards, as only𝑓+1slivers are needed.
4.3 Recovery of Slivers
One issue with writing blobs in asynchronous networks or when
nodes crash-recover is that not every node gets their sliver during
the write. This is not a problem, as protocols can function without
completeness. Nevertheless, inWalruswe opted to use a two-
dimensional encoding scheme because it allows for completeness,
i.e., the ability of every honest storage node to recover and even-
tually hold a sliver for every blob past PoA. This allows (1) better
load balancing of read requests as all nodes can reply to reads and
(2) dynamic availability of nodes, which enables reconfiguration
without needing to reconstruct and rewrite every blob.
All these benefits rely on the ability of storage nodes to recover
their slivers efficiently. The protocol closely follows theRed Stuff
recovery protocols illustrated in figure 3. When a storage node sees
a certificate of a blob for which it has not received slivers, it tries to
recover its sliver pair from the rest of the storage nodes. For this, it
requests from all storage nodes the symbols corresponding to the
intersection of the recovering node’s primary/secondary sliver with
the signatory nodes’ secondary/primary slivers. Given that2 𝑓+ 1
nodes signed the certificate, at least𝑓+ 1will be honest and reply.
This is sufficient for all2𝑓+ 1honest nodes to eventually hold their
secondary slivers. As a result, when all honest nodes hold their
secondary slivers, they can share those symbols corresponding to
the recovering nodes’ primary slivers; those nodes then reach the
2𝑓+1threshold and also recover their primary slivers.
4.4 Handling Byzantine Faults during Encoding
One last challenge forW alrusis handling Byzantine faults, both
for writers and for storage nodes. First, storage nodes could misbe-
have by acknowledging slivers that they do not hold or by serving
wrong slivers during read/recovery. We defend against these attacks
through the commitment to slivers that the writer creates, meaning
that any invalid sliver will be rejected (algorithm 1, line 28).
Second, a malicious client could upload slivers that are inconsis-
tent, i.e., do not correspond to a correct encoding of a blob. In that
case, a node may not be able to recover a sliver that is consistent
with the commitment of the symbols that it received.W alrusdoes
not require certified blobs to be recoverable (which is the primary
goal of AVID [ 5]), as the writer can always encode recoverable
garbage data. Instead, it is guaranteed that unrecoverable blobs will
have a third-party-verifiable proof of inconsistency, associated with
id, after a read fails.
The read process executed by a correct reader rejects any incon-
sistently encoded blob by default (algorithm 1, line 35), and as a
result, sharing this proof is not a necessity to ensure consistent
reads. However, agreeing on the inconsistency allows nodes to
delete this blob’s data and thus save space and bandwidth.
To prove inconsistency, the storage node shares the inconsistency
proof—consisting of the symbols that it received for recovery and
their inclusion proofs—with the other nodes, who can verify it
by performing a trial recovery themselves. After verifying this
fraud proof, each verifying node attests on-chain that id is invalid.
After observing𝑓+ 1such attestations, all nodes will subsequently
respond with⊥ to any request for the inconsistent blob’s slivers,
along with a pointer to the on-chain evidence for the inconsistency.
This means that even if a malicious writer colludes with𝑓 mali-
cious nodes to certify an invalid blob, the rest of the storage nodes
will detect this during a read or recovery and produce an inconsis-
tency proof, guaranteeing agreement among honest readers.
4.5 Committee Reconfiguration
The number of shards is a protocol parameter, fixed at 1000 in the
current deployment, and 𝑛= 3𝑓+ 1counts shards rather than
operators. The number of shards therefore does not grow with the
number of nodes in the committee in practice: shards are assigned
to nodes in proportion to their delegated stake, so a larger commit-
tee only changes how the same shards are distributed and never
requires re-encoding. The security invariant is stated over shards
as well, requiring that the adversary control at most1/3of them.
Walrusis orthogonal to the mechanism that enforces or incen-
tivizes this invariant: the current deployment uses delegated proof
of stake, but proof of work, proof of personhood, or random com-
mittee sampling from a larger population would serve equally well.
W alrusis a decentralized protocol; therefore, it is natural that
the set of storage nodes will fluctuate between epochs. When a
new committee replaces the current committee between epochs,
reconfiguration takes place. The goal of the reconfiguration pro-
tocol is to preserve the invariant that all blobs past the PoA are
available, regardless of whether the set of storage nodes changes.
Additionally,Walrusmust continue to perform reads and writes
for blobs to ensure no downtime even if the reconfiguration process
takes hours.5
Core Design.At a high level, the reconfiguration protocol ofW al-
rusis similar to the reconfiguration of blockchain systems, since
W alrusalso operates in quorums of storage nodes. However, the
reconfiguration ofWalrushas its own challenges because the
migration of state is orders of magnitude more expensive than in
classic blockchain systems. The most important challenge is the
race between writing blobs for epoch𝑒 and transferring slivers from
outgoing storage nodes to incoming storage nodes during the recon-
figuration event between𝑒 and𝑒+ 1. More specifically, if the amount
5Unlike blockchain protocols where reconfiguration simply transfers responsibility
for validation, inWalrusit transfers responsibility for data storage on the order of
terabytes or even petabytes.
7

George Danezis et al.
of data written in epoch𝑒 exceeds what the departing storage node
can transfer to the incoming storage node, then the epoch will never
finish. This problem is exacerbated when some of the outgoing stor-
age nodes of 𝑒 are unavailable, as this means that the incoming
storage nodes need to recover the slivers from the committee.
To resolve this problem without shutting off the write path, we
take a different approach than blockchain protocols. Specifically,
we require writes to be directed to the committee of 𝑒+ 1the
moment the reconfiguration starts, while still directing reads to
the old committee, instead of having a single point at which both
reads and writes are handed over to the new committee. We can
afford to do this, unlike blockchains, becauseWalrusdoes not
handle its state consistency (which is the responsibility of Sui in
our deployment) and hence can have divergence and duplication.
However, this creates challenges when it comes to reading fresh
blobs, as during the handover period it is unclear which nodes store
the data. We handle this by including in the metadata of every blob
the epoch in which it was first written. If the epoch is𝑒+ 1, then the
client is asked to direct reads to the new committee; otherwise, it
can direct reads to the old committee. This happens only during the
handover period (when both committees need to be live and secure).
Once a member of the new committee has bootstrapped its part of
the state, i.e., it has received all slivers for its shards, it signals that it
is ready to take over. When nodes of the new committee collectively
holding2𝑓+ 1shards have signaled this, the reconfiguration process
terminates and all reads are redirected to the storage nodes of the
new committee.
The Importance ofRed Stufffor Reconfiguration.As we mentioned
above, a significant challenge arises during epoch change when
some nodes are faulty. In prior work, a single faulty node would
require bandwidth equal to the size of the file to be transferred
over the network of storage nodes. This makes epoch changes
prohibitively expensive and is the reason no prior decentralized
system has one. The key enabler ofWalrus’s ability to handle
this gracefully is ourRed Stuffalgorithm, as it allows for the
bandwidth cost of the faulty case to be on the same order as that of
the fault-free case. We discuss the associated overheads in section 7.
Security Arguments.In a nutshell, reconfiguration ensures all ACDS
properties across epochs. The key invariant is that the reconfig-
uration algorithm ensures that if a blob is to be available across
epochs, in each epoch 𝑓+ 1correct shards (potentially different
ones) hold slivers. This is the purpose of the explicit signaling, by
nodes collectively holding2 𝑓+ 1shards, that unlocks the epoch
change. Therefore, eventually all other honest storage nodes can
recover their sliver pairs, and in all cases, honest nodes in the next
epoch are able to recover correct sliver pairs for𝑓+ 1shards as a
condition to move epochs.
5 Detailed Algorithms
This section supplements section 4 by providing detailed algorithms
for client and storage node operations (algorithms 2 and 3).
In addition to the helper functions specified in algorithm 1,
these algorithms also leverage the following (intuitive) functions:
ByteSize(𝐵) to compute the size of a blob 𝐵 in bytes;Erasure-
Decode(𝑇,𝑡,𝑛) to erasure-decode the source data from a set𝑇 of
Algorithm 1W alrushelper functions.
1:nodes⊲committee of storage nodes,|nodes|=𝑛=3𝑓+1
2:procedureEncodeBlob(𝐵)
3:𝐸←SplitIntoMatrix(𝐵,(𝑓+1)×(2𝑓+1))⊲the source
symbols
4:𝐸←[ErasureEncode(𝐸 (∗,𝑗),𝑓+1,𝑛):𝑗∈[0,2𝑓+1)] ⊤
⊲extend columns:[𝑛×(2𝑓+1)]
5:𝐸←[ErasureEncode(𝐸 (𝑖,∗),2𝑓+1,𝑛):𝑖∈[0,𝑛)]
⊲extend rows:[𝑛×𝑛]
6:𝑆 p←[𝐸 (𝑖,∗) :𝑖∈[0,𝑛)]⊲primary slivers, one per node
7:𝑆 s←[𝐸 (∗,𝑖) :𝑖∈[0,𝑛)] ⊤ ⊲secondary slivers, one per node
8:return(𝑆 p,𝑆 s)
9:procedureMakeMetadata(𝑆 p,𝑆 s)
10:𝑀 p←[MerkleTree(𝑆 (p,𝑖)):𝑖∈[0,𝑛)]
11:𝑀 s←[MerkleTree(𝑆 (s,𝑖)):𝑖∈[0,𝑛)]
12:𝑀←(𝑀 p,𝑀 s)
13:return𝑀
14:procedureMakeBlobId(𝑀,size)
15:(𝑀 p,𝑀 s)←𝑀
16:(ℎ p,ℎ s)←(MerkleTree(𝑀 p),MerkleTree(𝑀 s))
17:ℎ←Hash(ℎ p,ℎ s)⊲the blob commitment
18:id←Hash(ℎ,size)
19:returnid
20:procedureEncodeMetadata(𝑀)
21:𝑚←ErasureEncode(𝑀,𝑓+1,𝑛)⊲𝑛metadata shares
22:𝜏←MerkleTree(𝑚)
23:return[(𝑖,𝑚 𝑖,𝜏,Opening(𝑚,𝑖)):𝑖∈[0,𝑛)]⊲one piece per
node
24:procedureDecodeMetadata(𝑃)⊲metadata pieces(𝑖,𝑚,𝜏,𝜋)
25:𝜏 ★←Majority([𝜏:(𝑖,𝑚,𝜏,𝜋)∈𝑃])⊲by honest majority
26:𝑉←{(𝑖,𝑚):(𝑖,𝑚,𝜏,𝜋)∈𝑃,VerifyOpening(𝜏 ★,𝑚,𝜋,𝑖)}
⊲verified shares
27:returnErasureDecode(𝑉,𝑓+1,𝑛)
28:procedureVerifySliver(𝑆 (𝑥,𝑖),𝑀)⊲sliver type𝑥∈{p,s}
29:(𝑀 p,𝑀 s)←𝑀
30:returnMerkleTree(𝑆 (𝑥,𝑖))=𝑀 𝑥
𝑖
31:procedureDecodeBlobFromPrimary({𝑆 (p,∗)}𝑓+1,𝑀)
32:𝐵←ErasureDecode({𝑆 (p,∗)}𝑓+1,𝑓+1,𝑛)
33:(𝑆 p,𝑆 s)←EncodeBlob(𝐵)⊲re-encode
34:𝑀 ′←MakeMetadata(𝑆 p,𝑆 s)
35:if𝑀 ′ ≠𝑀then return⊥
36:return𝐵
at least𝑡 out of𝑛 correctly encoded symbols or slivers (section 2);
ErasureEncode(𝐷,𝑡,𝑛) to erasure-encode data𝐷 into𝑛 symbols
such that any𝑡 of them can recover𝐷 (section 2);Hash(·) to com-
pute a cryptographic hash;InconsistencyProof(𝑇) to assemble
from the collected symbols and openings𝑇 a third-party-verifiable
proof that the encoding is inconsistent (section 4.4);Majority(𝑣) to
return the most frequent element of a vector𝑣;MerkleTree(𝑣) to
compute a Merkle tree over a vector input𝑣;NodeIndex(𝑁,nodes)
to obtain the index of node𝑁 in the committee;Opening(𝑣,𝑖) to
8

W alrus: An Efficient Decentralized Storage Network
Algorithm 2W alrusclient operations.
1:nodes
// Store a blob
2:procedureStoreBlob(𝐵,expiry)
3:(𝑆 p,𝑆 s)←EncodeBlob(𝐵)
4:𝑀←MakeMetadata(𝑆 p,𝑆 s)
5:size←ByteSize(𝐵)
6:id←MakeBlobId(𝑀,size)
7:ReserveBlob(id,size,expiry)
8:𝑅←{}
9:for𝑖∈[0,|nodes|)do
10:𝑁←nodes[𝑖]
11:StoreRqst←(id,size,𝑀,𝑆 (p,𝑖),𝑆(s,𝑖))
12:𝑅←𝑅∪{(𝑁,StoreRqst)}
13:𝐶 𝐴←await 2𝑓+1 : {𝑐←Send(𝑁,𝑟) :(𝑁,𝑟)∈𝑅}⊲ signed acks
14:StoreCertificate(𝐶 𝐴,id)⊲the availability certificate
// Retrieve metadata
15:procedureRetrieveMetadata(id)
16:MetadataRqst←(id)
17:𝑃 𝑀←await 2𝑓+1 :{𝑝←Send(𝑁,MetadataRqst):
𝑁∈nodes}⊲metadata pieces
18:returnDecodeMetadata(𝑃 𝑀)
// Read from primary
19:procedureReadBlob(id)
20:𝑀←RetrieveMetadata(id)
21:SliversRqst←(id)
22:{𝑆 (p,∗)}𝑓+1 ←await 𝑓+1 :{𝑆 (p,𝑖)←Send(𝑁,SliversRqst):
𝑁=nodes[𝑖],VerifySliver(𝑆 (p,𝑖),𝑀)}
23:𝐵←DecodeBlobFromPrimary({𝑆 (p,∗)}𝑓+1,𝑀)
24:return𝐵
compute the opening for the entry at index𝑖 of the vector commit-
ment to𝑣;ReqestSymbol(𝑚,id,(𝑟,𝑐)) to request the symbol at
position(𝑟,𝑐) of the blob id from node𝑚, together with an opening
against the commitment of the sliver that contains it;Send(𝑁,msg)
to send the message msg to node𝑁 over the authenticated channel;
Sign(𝑥) to sign𝑥 with the node’s key;SplitIntoMatrix(𝐷,𝑟×𝑐)
to reshape data𝐷 into a matrix of the specified size; andVerify-
Opening(𝜏,𝑥,𝜋,𝑖) to verify with the opening𝜋 that𝑥 is the entry
at index𝑖of the vector committed to by𝜏.
Furthermore, the client and storage nodes use the following func-
tions to interact with the blockchain:IsRegistered(id) to check if
a blob ID id is registered on the blockchain;ReadCertificate(id)
to read an availability certificate for blob IDid from the blockchain;
ReserveBlob(id,size,expiry) to acquire storage for a blob of size
size until epoch expiry and register the blob IDid on the blockchain;
andStoreCertificate(𝐶𝐴,id) to store the availability certificate
𝐶𝐴 for blob IDidon the blockchain.
Table 2 summarizes the main notations used in the algorithms.
Subscripts of matrices and vectors denote access to a specific index.
6Red StuffProofs
This section formally proves thatRed Stuffsatisfies all properties
of an ACDS scheme.
Algorithm 3W alrusstore operations.
1:N⊲identifier of the storage node
2:db 𝑚 ⊲persists this node’s encoded metadata part
3:db 𝑏 ⊲persists slivers
// Store slivers
4:procedureStoreSlivers(StoreRqst)
5:(id,size,𝑀,𝑆 (p,𝑖),𝑆(s,𝑖))←StoreRqst⊲𝑖is this node’s index
6:if¬IsRegistered(id)then return⊥
7:id ′←MakeBlobId(𝑀,size)
8:ifid ′ ≠idthen return⊥
9:if¬VerifySliver(𝑆 (p,𝑖),𝑀)then return⊥
10:if¬VerifySliver(𝑆 (s,𝑖),𝑀)then return⊥
11:(𝑀 p,𝑀 s)←𝑀
12:db 𝑚[id]←(EncodeMetadata(𝑀) 𝑖,
Opening(𝑀 p,𝑖),Opening(𝑀 s,𝑖))
⊲metadata piece and openings of the blob commitment
13:db 𝑏[id]←(𝑆 (p,𝑖),𝑆(s,𝑖))⊲may be truncated (section 3.3)
14:returnSign(id)⊲signed acknowledgment
// Serve slivers (primary path for reads)
15:procedureServeSlivers(SliversRqst)
16:id←SliversRqst
17:if¬ReadCertificate(id)then
18:return⊥⊲ensure on-chain availability certificate exists
19:(𝑆 (p,𝑖),𝑆(s,𝑖))←db 𝑏[id]
20:return𝑆 (p,𝑖) ⊲serve primary sliver for read threshold𝑓+1
// Recover one sliver of this node from verified intersections
21:procedureRecoverSliver(id,nodes,𝑖,𝑀,𝑥)⊲sliver type𝑥∈{p,s}
// ask each node𝑚with index𝑗for the symbol shared by
//𝑆(𝑥,𝑖) and𝑆( ¯𝑥,𝑗) , opened against𝑀 ¯𝑥
𝑗
22:𝑄←await 𝑡𝑥 :{(𝑗,𝑧,𝜋)←ReqestSymbol(𝑚,id,𝑝 𝑥(𝑖,𝑗)):
𝑚∈nodes, 𝑗=NodeIndex(𝑚,nodes),
VerifyOpening(𝑀 ¯𝑥
𝑗,𝑧,𝜋,𝑖)}
23:𝑋←{(𝑗,𝑧):(𝑗,𝑧,𝜋)∈𝑄}⊲verified symbols
24:𝑆 (𝑥,𝑖)
0 ←ErasureDecode(𝑋,𝑡 𝑥,𝑛)⊲source symbols
25:𝑆 (𝑥,𝑖) ←ErasureEncode(𝑆 (𝑥,𝑖)
0 ,𝑡𝑥,𝑛)⊲fully extended sliver
26:ifMerkleTree(𝑆 (𝑥,𝑖))≠𝑀 𝑥
𝑖 then
27:return(⊥,InconsistencyProof(𝑄))⊲see section 4.4
28:return(𝑆 (𝑥,𝑖),⊥)
// Recover slivers for this node (symbol-level)
29:procedureRecoverSlivers(id,nodes)
30:if¬ReadCertificate(id)then return⊥⊲only past the PoA
31:𝑀←RetrieveMetadata(id)
32:⊲required to verify openings; defined in algorithm 2
33:(𝑀 p,𝑀 s)←𝑀
34:𝑖←NodeIndex(N,nodes)⊲this node’s row/column index
35:(𝑆 (s,𝑖),𝜑)←RecoverSliver(id,nodes,𝑖,𝑀,s)⊲secondary first
36:if𝜑≠⊥then return𝜑⊲inconsistency proof
37:(𝑆 (p,𝑖),𝜑)←RecoverSliver(id,nodes,𝑖,𝑀,p)
38:if𝜑≠⊥then return𝜑⊲inconsistency proof
39:db 𝑏[id]←(𝑆 (p,𝑖),𝑆(s,𝑖))⊲persist both slivers
40:db 𝑚[id]←(EncodeMetadata(𝑀) 𝑖,
Opening(𝑀 p,𝑖),Opening(𝑀 s,𝑖))
41:returnok
9

George Danezis et al.
Table 2: Main notations used in theW alrusalgorithms.
𝐸(𝑖,𝑗) Symbol at position(𝑖,𝑗)of an encoded blob
𝑆p The set of primary slivers
𝑆s The set of secondary slivers
𝑆(p,𝑖) The primary sliver held by storage node𝑖
𝑆(s,𝑖) The secondary sliver held by storage node𝑖
{𝑆(p,∗)}𝑓+1 Any set of𝑓+1primary slivers
𝑆(𝑥,𝑖)
0 The source symbols of the sliver𝑆(𝑥,𝑖)
¯𝑥The sliver type other than𝑥, i.e., ¯p=s
𝑡𝑥 Reconstruction threshold:𝑡 p =2𝑓+1,𝑡 s =𝑓+1
𝑝𝑥(𝑖,𝑗)Position of the symbol shared by𝑆 (𝑥,𝑖) and𝑆( ¯𝑥,𝑗)
𝑀The blob metadata(𝑀 p,𝑀 s)
𝑀p Metadata associated with the primary slivers
𝑀s Metadata associated with the secondary slivers
ℎThe blob commitment over the metadata𝑀
idThe blob ID, i.e.,Hash(ℎ,size)
6.1 Write Completeness
We show thatRed Stuffsatisfies Write Completeness. Informally,
if an honest writer writes a blob 𝐵 to the network, every honest
storage node eventually holds a correctly encoded primary and
secondary sliver of𝐵. For this part we assume the writer is honest
and provides a correct vector commitment𝑀.
Lemma 1(Primary Sliver Reconstruction).If a party holds a set
of(2𝑓+ 1) symbols{𝐸(𝑖,∗)}2𝑓+1 from a primary sliver 𝑆(p,𝑖) , it can
obtain the complete primary sliver𝑆 (p,𝑖) .
Proof. The proof directly follows from the reconstruction prop-
erty of erasure codes with reconstruction threshold(2𝑓+1).□
Lemma 2(Secondary Sliver Reconstruction).If a party holds a set
of(𝑓+ 1) symbols{𝐸(∗,𝑖)}𝑓+1 from a secondary sliver 𝑆(s,𝑖) , it can
obtain the complete secondary sliver𝑆 (s,𝑖) .
Proof. The proof directly follows from the reconstruction prop-
erty of erasure codes with reconstruction threshold(𝑓+1).□
Theorem 1.Red Stuffsatisfies Write Completeness (definition 1).
Proof. To write a blob 𝐵, an honest writer 𝑊 sends at least
(2𝑓+ 1) correctly encoded slivers (parts) to different storage nodes,
along with a binding vector commitment𝑀 over those slivers. For
these nodes the property holds by definition. Now let us assume a
node𝑖 that is not in the initial2𝑓+ 1recipients. The node will ask
every node 𝑗 for the shared symbols in its primary (i.e.,𝐸(𝑖,𝑗) ) and
secondary (i.e.,𝐸(𝑗,𝑖) ) sliver. Given the binding vector commitment
𝑀, node 𝑗 can either send the true symbols or not reply. Since at
least2𝑓+ 1nodes acknowledged 𝑀, node𝑖 will get𝑓+ 1correct
symbols for its primary sliver{𝐸(𝑖,∗)}𝑓+1 and𝑓+ 1correct symbols
for its secondary sliver{𝐸(∗,𝑖)}𝑓+1 . From lemma 2, this means that
𝑖will reconstruct its full secondary sliver𝑆 (s,𝑖) .
Since this reasoning applies to any generic node𝑖, it holds for all
nodes. As a result, eventually all2𝑓+ 1honest nodes will reconstruct
their secondary slivers𝑆(s,∗) . Every time a node 𝑗 reconstructs its
secondary sliver, it also replies to node𝑖 with the shared symbol,
which is part of the primary sliver of 𝑖 (i.e., 𝐸(𝑖,𝑗) ). As a result,
eventually𝑖 will go from {𝐸(𝑖,∗)}𝑓+1 to{𝐸(𝑖,∗)}2𝑓+1 . This allows
node𝑖to apply lemma 1 and reconstruct its primary sliver𝑆 (p,𝑖) .
Since this reasoning applies to any node𝑖, it holds for all nodes
and concludes the proof that all honest nodes will eventually hold
both their primary and secondary slivers.□
6.2 Read Consistency
We prove thatRed Stuffsatisfies Read Consistency. Informally, if
two honest readers read a blob𝐵 stored on the network, they either
both eventually obtain𝐵or both eventually fail and obtain⊥.
Theorem 2.Red Stuffsatisfies Read Consistency (definition 1).
Proof. Note that the encoding scheme is deterministic and the
last step of reading is to re-run the encoding and reconstruct𝑀. As
a result, a reader that accepts the read as correct needs to output𝐵.
The challenge with Read Consistency is whether the writer can
convince two readers that collect different slivers to output𝐵 and
⊥, respectively. Let us assume that two honest readers𝑅1 and𝑅2
read a blob𝐵 from the network and𝑅1 eventually obtains𝐵 while
𝑅2 eventually obtains⊥.
There are two scenarios for𝑅 2 to output⊥:
(1)𝑅 2 gets 𝑓+ 1replies that match the vector commitment 𝑀
and tries to reconstruct. After reconstruction, re-encoding, and
recomputing the vector commitment, it does not match𝑀.
(2) Some node failed to reconstruct its secondary sliver. By the
algorithm, this node will hold a proof of inconsistency, which
it will send to𝑅 2.
In either scenario,𝑅1 should also have detected the inconsistency
during the reconstruction and output ⊥; otherwise, the binding
property of the vector commitment would not hold. Hence a con-
tradiction.□
6.3 Validity
We prove thatRed Stuffsatisfies Validity. Informally, if an honest
writer writes a correctly encoded blob 𝐵 to the network, every
honest reader eventually obtains𝐵.
Theorem 3.Red Stuffsatisfies Validity (definition 1).
Proof. To write a blob𝐵, an honest writer𝑊 constructs𝑛 cor-
rectly encoded slivers (parts) along with a binding vector commit-
ment𝑀 over those slivers. Since the writer is honest, from theo-
rem 1, at least2𝑓+ 1honest storage nodes will hold their respective
slivers. Let nodes denote the entire set of storage nodes. An honest
reader queries each storage node𝑁∈nodes for its primary slivers,
verifies each against𝑀, and, once it holds𝑓+ 1, uses them to recon-
struct𝐵. Since all honest storage nodes will eventually reply to the
reader and𝑊 was honest, the reader will eventually obtain𝐵. □
7 Evaluation
Our evaluation aims at demonstrating the following claims:
C1W alrusachieveslow latency, bounded by network delay.
C2W alrusclients achievehigh read and write throughput.
C3W alrusreconfigures and recoverswithout downtime.
To make the evaluation as realistic as possible, we perform mea-
surements on the publicWalrusdeployments described below,
10

W alrus: An Efficient Decentralized Storage Network
thus exposing the system to real-world conditions, real users, and
infrastructure outside our control.
7.1 Production Deployments
TheW alrusprotocol has powered a decentralized production test-
net since October 2024 (redeployed in April 2025), and a main-
net since March 2025. The storage nodes and clients on these
networks are written in asynchronous multi-core Rust. They use
axum [25] for HTTPS networking, fastcrypto [ 14] for cryptogra-
phy, rocksdb [13] for storage, reed-solomon-simd [16] for erasure
coding, and Sui [23] as a fast blockchain. The code is open-source
and available at https://github.com/MystenLabs/walrus.
Both networks use the same encoding parameters with 1000
shards across approximately 100 storage nodes, although the num-
ber of nodes and their shard distribution varied slightly over time.
The following values were observed on 2026-07-29:6
Mainnet.TheWalrusmainnet comprises 95 storage nodes in 17
countries, the top 5 in terms of the total stake being the USA, Fin-
land, the Netherlands, Germany, and Lithuania. No single country
has more than1/3of the stake. Besides Europe and North America,
nodes are also located in the APAC and LATAM regions. Nodes
hold between 4 and 26 shards (median: 7, P90: 22).
Most storage nodes run a recent LTS version of Ubuntu with at
least 16 CPU cores, 128 GB RAM, and 1 Gbps bandwidth. Hardware
varies across Intel and AMD CPUs and HDD, SSD, and NVMe
storage. Nodes offer between 7.0 TB and 2.03 PB of storage (median:
55 TB, P90: 100 TB, P99: 362 TB). The total system capacity (encoded
size) is 4.00 PB, 56% of which is currently used. 7 Aside from the
large storage capacity, nodes are modestly provisioned similarly to
typical quorum-based blockchains [24].
Since the public launch in March 2025, 17.6 million unique blobs
have been registered by 9,675 wallets with a total unencoded size
of 686 TB, 477 TB of which is still active. The maximum number
of blobs certified in one day was around 834,000 on 2025-04-02
(approximately 10 blobs per second). The maximum total unen-
coded size of blobs certified in one day was 21.0 TB on 2026-01-29
(corresponding to an average goodput of approximately 1.95 Gbps).
Testnet.TheWalrustestnet comprises 101 storage nodes with a
geographical and stake distribution similar to that of the mainnet.
Node specifications are slightly lower, with most nodes having at
least 8 CPU cores and 64 GB RAM. Storage capacities vary between
322 GB and 75 TB (median: 5.0 TB, P90: 16.5 TB), resulting in a
system capacity of 333 TB.
7.2 Baselines
The other two main operational decentralized storage networks are
Filecoin and Arweave. To compareW alruswith Filecoin, we focus
on two metrics: (1) the time until a client obtains an incentivized
cryptographic guarantee that a file has been durably stored, and (2)
6Committee, shard, and capacity values are read from the on-chain state. Blob counts,
registered and active sizes, and peak-day figures are based on our index ofWalrus
events on Sui. Country distribution is based on geolocation of the nodes’ public IP
addresses. Hardware information was self-reported by operators in a questionnaire.
Some of these values are also shown on https://walrus.chainviz.io.
7The “system capacity” here refers to the contract-enforced capacity based on a vote
by the committee. The total amount of storage reported by nodes in the committee is
7.86 PB.
Table 3: Time to write and read on Filecoin [ 8] and to store
until finality on Arweave for 10 kB, 10 MB, 20 MB, 70 MB,
and 135 MB files. Arweave reads are shown in figure 5.
System Operation Latency
Filecoin Write & secure seal 1.5 h
Read from secured copy 3 h
Arweave Store to finality (10 kB) 38 min
Store to finality (10 MB–135 MB) 35–36 min
the time to read the sealed (secured) copy, as opposed to a transient
cached “hot” copy. Because Filecoin relies on resource-intensive
proofs of storage [9], the latency to reach these guarantees is (within
sector limits, up to 32 GiB) largely independent of file size. Table 3
reports these latencies: 1.5 hours to write and seal, and 3 hours to
read the sealed copy [8].
Arweave guarantees storage through its mining algorithm,
which takes tens of minutes and allows it to quickly fulfill storage
promises when compared to Filecoin. Table 3 illustrates the end-
to-end latency to store blobs of varying sizes on Arweave. Write
latency averages 35 to 38 minutes, regardless of the blob’s size,
highlighting that the bottleneck is in the mining algorithm.
The following sections demonstrate thatWalrus’s separation
of consensus from data storage results in latencies that are orders
of magnitude smaller than those of both Filecoin and Arweave.
7.3 System Performance
We evaluatedW alrus’s performance on thepublic testnetby collect-
ing latency and throughput measurements as of 2026-01-12 from
an AWS m5d.8xlarge instance (10 Gbps bandwidth, 32 vCPUs,
128 GB RAM) located in US East (N. Virginia). This client was used
for evaluation and is not part of theW alrustestnet.
W alrusLatency.Figure 5 illustrates the end-to-end latencies of
Walrusfor 50 stores and reads of random blobs of various sizes.
Up to four blobs were written or read concurrently; all blobs were
written before any were read. The measurements span from before
the client encodes the blob until it creates a PoA on the blockchain,
which is after finality but may be before all 1000 shards have re-
ceived their respective slivers.
The read latencies of bothW alrusand Arweave were low, even
for large blobs. OnWalrus, blobs up to 135 MB were read in less
than 5 seconds. By contrast, Arweave’s read latencies were around
25 seconds for the 135 MB files. This difference follows from how
the two systems retrieve data: aW alrusclient requests 𝑓+ 1pri-
mary slivers concurrently from several different storage nodes
(algorithm 2), each carrying roughly1/(𝑓+ 1) of the blob, so the
download aggregates the bandwidth of the nodes it contacts and is
ultimately limited by the client’s own link. An Arweave client in-
stead downloads the entire file from a single node, whose resources
are also shared with the consensus protocol.
Median write latencies onW alruswere higher than read laten-
cies and remained less than 20 seconds for blobs up to 135 MB. For
small blobs, less than 20 MB, the write latencies were consistently
11

George Danezis et al.
0 25M 50M 75M 100M 125M
Blob Size (B)
0
5
10
15
20
25Latency (s)
Walrus Read
Walrus Write
Arweave Read
Figure 5: Median read and write latencies for various unen-
coded blob sizes onW alrusand read latencies on Arweave.
Arweave writes require minutes and so are presented in ta-
ble 3. Error bars indicate the 5th and 95th percentile latencies.
1Ki 64Ki 8Mi 16Mi 32Mi 64Mi
0.0
2.6
10.0
20.0
30.0
40.0
50.0Latency (s)
Check status
Publish PoA
Register
Encoding
Data upload
Figure 6: Latencies for various operations during a single blob
upload for various sizes. The data upload latency indicates
the latency to upload to all online shards, as opposed to the
minimum necessary quorum.
around 10 seconds. Both were significantly lower than Arweave’s
write to finality, which required over 30 minutes (table 3).
Figure 6 provides more details onW alrus’s write latencies for
the various blob sizes. Each write operation consists of five key
steps:encoding(erasure encoding the blob),check status(checking
prior storage status of the blob),register(reserve space for the blob),
data upload(uploading slivers to storage nodes and retrieving the
signed acknowledgments that form the availability certificate), and
publish PoA(committing the PoA to the blockchain).
These operations either have constant latencies: check status,
register, publish PoA; or variable latencies: encoding and data up-
load. For these six blob sizes, the constant latencies were less than
2.6 seconds. In contrast, most of the write time was dominated by
0 25M 50M 75M 100M 125M
Blob Size (B)
0
100M
200M
300M
400MClient Throughput (B/s)
Walrus Read
Walrus Write
Arweave Read
Figure 7: Single-client throughput ofW alrusand Arweave
for various unencoded blob sizes.
the uploads of the slivers and metadata and the retrieval of the
acknowledgments. For small blobs, this upload latency was pri-
marily composed of the overhead for the constant-sized metadata
uploads, but grew linearly from around 8 MiB upward. Therefore,
these results validate our claimC1:W alrusachieves low latency
and is bounded by network delays.
Client Throughput.Figure 7 illustrates the throughput (in bytes per
second) that a singleW alrusand Arweave client can achieve. The
read throughput ofWalruswas measured by requesting stored
blobs at a constant rate for 10–20 seconds (depending on the blob
size) before increasing the request rate by 30–60 requests/minute
and repeating. The throughput was then the highest constant re-
quest rate before the first read failure (e.g., timeout). The write
throughput was measured by performing uploads with a constant
8 concurrent requests, the client’s configured concurrency, which
was taken as a reasonable default for a commodity system. In both
cases, the reported throughput is the request throughput multi-
plied by the blob size. Arweave’s write throughput is omitted: its
client communicates only with a central gateway, so we could not
measure it reliably.
As expected,W alrus’s read throughput increases with the blob
size, as fewer requests for larger amounts of data better utilize the
network connections between the client and the storage nodes.
Accordingly, the single client achieved around 400 MB/s through-
put for 135 MB blobs. By contrast, Arweave’s read throughput
was severely limited by the blockchain interactions. TheW alrus
client’s write throughput linearly increased to around 62 MB/s.
The limiting factor here was the client’s configuration of 8 workers
and concurrent requests. This could be relaxed until the bottleneck
becomes the user’s CPU or network, as each worker maintains its
own blockchain state and Sui supports a much higher throughput
in transactions per second. However, this configuration is already
sufficient to saturate many residential connections. In contrast,
Arweave’s client plateaued at around 7 MB/s, which is the limit
of the consensus protocol to agree on storing data. As such, these
12

W alrus: An Efficient Decentralized Storage Network
results validate claimC2:W alrusenables clients to read and write
at high throughput.
7.4 Epoch-Change Overhead
The main overhead associated with the transition from oneW alrus
epoch to another arises from shards being relocated across epochs,
that is, when a shard assigned to a node in epoch𝑒 is reassigned to
a different node in epoch𝑒+1.
The transfer of a shard to another node requires sending slivers of
all active blobs and, if the new owner was not part of the committee
in epoch𝑒, all blob metadata. During ashard transfer, the previous
owner of the shard sends the shard’s slivers to the new owner. If
the previous owner is unwilling or unable to do so, the receiving
node instead performsshard recovery.
Shard reassignments on mainnet have been frequent but mostly
small. Across the 36 epochs between the launch in March 2025 and
July 2026, twelve epoch changes reassigned five or more shards:
epochs 2, 6, 9, 11, 16, 20, 23, 27, 28, 30, 32, and 36. The largest
reassignment moved 27 shards at epoch 2 (2025-04-08), when the
network was young and held 4.4 million blobs; the largest since
then moved 13 shards, at epochs 28 (2026-04-07) and 36 (2026-07-28).
In at least three cases, shards were moved from a node that was
no longer available, requiring the new owners torecovertheir new
shards (epochs 17, 20, and 23). We describe two shardtransfersand
two shardrecoveriesin further detail. 8
At epoch 9 (2025-07-15), a joining node received 4 shards. For the
9.9 million blobs that were live at the time, a total of 636 GB of blob
metadata was transferred over 12.5 hours at around 113 Mbps; and
79.5 million slivers, 890 GB, over 15.25 hours at around 129 Mbps.
At epoch 11 (2025-08-12), a node holding 12 shards left the commit-
tee and its shards were reassigned to twelve different nodes, one
each. Every receiving node was already in the previous committee
and therefore held the metadata, so only slivers had to be trans-
ferred: 6.6 million primary and 6.6 million secondary slivers per
shard, about 210 GB each and 2.5 TB in total. Since each receiver
synchronized independently of the others, up to seven shards were
transferred concurrently, at an aggregate rate of roughly 1.4 Gbps
on average and 2.5 Gbps at peak, and the last shard completed about
four hours after the epoch change.
We also analyze two epoch changes that required recovery be-
cause the node leaving the committee was no longer online to hand
over its slivers. At epoch 17 (2025-11-04), a node holding 4 shards
was removed, and each of its shards held slivers for approximately
465,000 blobs.9 Three of these shards were reassigned to a single
node, which recovered them sequentially in 17 to 21 hours each,
and the fourth was recovered by another node. At epoch 20 (2025-
12-16), a node holding 7 shards was removed and its shards were
distributed across seven nodes, each recovering slivers for approx-
imately 521,000 blobs. Five shards were recovered concurrently,
which took approximately 64 hours in total. Recovery of one of the
8Committee memberships and shard assignments are computed from the system object
at each epoch. Sliver counts, transfer volumes, and durations are based on Prometheus
metrics voluntarily reported by node operators, which is also how we distinguish
transferred from recovered shards.
9The drop in the number of blobs relative to earlier epochs is due to the fact that
users started bundling multiple files within a single blob around June 2025 to reduce
overheads and cost, and earlier blobs expired over time.
other shards took 16 hours; the seventh recovery was interrupted
and resumed only after its node came back online.
These cases demonstrate thatWalruscan efficiently recover
even from the complete failure of a node holding several shards.
Note that in all of these cases,Walrusremained available for
storing and reading data, thus validating claimC3.
8 Related Work
IPFS [2] provides a decentralized store for files, and is extensively
used by blockchain systems and decentralized apps for their storage
needs. It provides content-addressable storage for blocks, and uses
a distributed hash table (DHT) to maintain a link between file
replicas and nodes that store them. Publishers must pin files to
storage nodes, usually for a fee, to ensure the files remain available.
The underlying storage uses replication on a few nodes for each file.
Filecoin [17] extends IPFS, using a longest-chain blockchain and
a cryptocurrency (FIL) to incentivize storage nodes. Publishers
acquire storage contracts with a few nodes, and payments are made
in the cryptocurrency. Filecoin mitigates the risk that these nodes
delete the replicas by requiring storage nodes to hold differently
encoded copies of the file, and performing challenges against each
other for the encoded files. These copies are encoded in such a way
that it is slow to reproduce them from the original copy, to avoid
relay attacks. As a result, if the user wants to access the original file,
they need to wait a long time for the decoding of a copy, unless some
storage node has a hot copy. Since there is no in-built incentive for
storing hot copies, this service usually costs extra.
Arweave [27] mitigates slow reads through a Proof-of-Access
algorithm that incentivizes storage nodes to store as many files
as possible to maximize rewards. This is implemented in conjunc-
tion with a full replication strategy, and results in replication levels
almost equal to those of classic state machine replication. Addition-
ally, the system only allows files to be stored “forever”, through
a mechanism of pre-payment—which lacks the flexibility to con-
trol lifetime and deletion, and is capital-inefficient since payment
is upfront.
In contrast to Filecoin and Arweave,W alrususes erasure cod-
ing to maintain a very low overhead of4.5× while ensuring that
data survives the loss of up to2/3of the shards and that the sys-
tem continues to accept writes even if up to1/3of the shards are
unresponsive. Furthermore,W alrusdoes not implement its own
separate blockchain for node management but uses Sui instead.
Storj [21] is a distributed storage solution that leverages en-
coding to achieve a low replication factor. Its deployed network
implements a Reed-Solomon-based erasure-coding scheme with a
29/80configuration [ 22], wherein a file is encoded into 80 parts,
with any 29 sufficient for reconstruction. This approach results in a
2.75× replication factor, offering a substantial reduction in storage
costs compared to prior systems. However, a key limitation is its
inability to efficiently heal lost parts. The system relies on users
to reconstruct the full file and subsequently re-encode it to facil-
itate the recovery of lost parts. In contrast,Walrus’s use ofRed
Stuffincorporates an efficient reconstruction mechanism, which
is critical for the healing property of the erasure-coding scheme,
especially under the churn that occurs naturally in a permissionless
system.Red Stuffbuilds on the Twin-code framework [ 11, 18],
13

George Danezis et al.
which uses two linear encodings of data to enhance the efficiency
of sliver recovery. However, unlike Twin-code,Red Stuffencodes
data across differently sized dimensions and integrates authenti-
cated data structures, achieving Write Completeness (as defined in
definition 1) and ensuring Byzantine fault tolerance.
Modern blockchains provide some storage, but it is prohibitively
expensive to store larger blobs due to the costs of full replication
across all validators, as well as potentially long retention times to
allow verifiability. Within the Ethereum ecosystem specifically, the
current scaling strategy around L2s involves posting blobs on the
main chain that represent bundles of transactions to be executed
and verified via either zero-knowledge or fraud proofs. Specialized
networks, such as Celestia, based on availability sampling [1], have
emerged to fulfill this need off the main Ethereum chain. In Celestia,
two-dimensional Reed-Solomon codes are used to encode blobs,
and symbols are distributed to light nodes to support “trustless”
availability. However, all blobs are fully replicated across the val-
idators of the system for a limited time period of about a month.
Walrusinstead offers proofs of availability with arbitrarily long
retention periods and a reduced cost of storage per node, which
allows the system to scale inexpensively.
The most closely related work to ours is Semi-AVID [15], which
has also been explored as an alternative to provide data availabil-
ity for rollups. It is similar to the Strawman II design, meaning
that although it can achieve the critical property of verifiable data
storage, it cannot achieve Write Completeness unless the full data
is reconstructed. This makes it prohibitively expensive for epoch
change and only suitable for either permissioned systems with no
churn or short-lived data storage. This is the main challenge with
AVID [5], which is optimized to provide verifiability of data stor-
age, disallowing the output of⊥. This is overkill, as a malicious
writer can simply encode garbage data instead of a failed encoding.
Hence, the machinery to detect and reject failed encodings that
AVID provides is unnecessarily constraining and expensive.
9 Conclusion
We introduceW alrus, a novel approach to decentralized blob stor-
age that leverages fast erasure codes and modern blockchain tech-
nology. By utilizing theRed Stuffencoding algorithm and the
Sui blockchain,Walrusachieves high resilience and low storage
overhead while ensuring efficient data management and scalabil-
ity. Our system operates in epochs, with all operations sharded
by id, enabling it to handle large volumes of data. The innovative
two-dimensional BFT encoding protocol ofRed Stuffallows for
efficient data recovery, load balancing, and dynamic availability of
storage nodes, addressing key challenges faced by existing decen-
tralized storage systems.
Furthermore,Walrusprovides a committee reconfiguration
protocol that guarantees uninterrupted data availability during
network evolution. Our contributions include defining the prob-
lem of Asynchronous Complete Data Storage, presenting theRed
Stuffprotocol, and providing a full end-to-end system design with
W alrus, including a production-grade implementation and deploy-
ment, paving the way for future advancements in decentralized
storage technologies.
Acknowledgments
This work was funded by Mysten Labs. We would like to express
our gratitude to Dmitri Perelman, He Liu, Pei Deng, Sadhan Sood,
William Bradley, and Zhe Wu for their invaluable contributions to
bringingWalrusto production and to Damir Shamanaev for his
assistance in constructing the smart contracts that connectW alrus
with the Sui blockchain. We extend a special thank you to Joachim
Neu for identifying a serious vulnerability in our previous testnet
implementation. This vulnerability was related to its use of RaptorQ
for erasure coding and led us to replace RaptorQ with RS codes.
References
[1] Mustafa Al-Bassam, Alberto Sonnino, Vitalik Buterin, and Ismail Khoffi. 2021.
Fraud and data availability proofs: Detecting invalid blocks in light clients. In
Financial Cryptography and Data Security (FC). Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg,
279–298. doi:10.1007/978-3-662-64331-0_15
[2] Juan Benet. 2014. IPFS - Content addressed, versioned, P2P file system.
arXiv:1407.3561 [cs.NI] doi:10.48550/arXiv.1407.3561
[3] Nazanin Zahed Benisi, Mehdi Aminian, and Bahman Javadi. 2020. Blockchain-
based decentralized storage networks: A survey.Journal of Network and Computer
Applications162 (2020), 102656. doi:10.1016/j.jnca.2020.102656
[4] Sam Blackshear, Andrey Chursin, George Danezis, Anastasios Kichidis, Lefteris
Kokoris-Kogias, Xun Li, Mark Logan, Ashok Menon, Todd Nowacki, Alberto
Sonnino, Brandon Williams, and Lu Zhang. 2024. Sui Lutris: A blockchain
combining broadcast and consensus. InACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer
and Communications Security (CCS). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 2606–2620.
doi:10.1145/3658644.3670286
[5] Christian Cachin and Stefano Tessaro. 2005. Asynchronous verifiable informa-
tion dispersal. InIEEE Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems (SRDS). IEEE
Computer Society, Piscataway, NJ, USA, 191–202. doi:10.1109/RELDIS.2005.9
[6] Dario Catalano and Dario Fiore. 2013. Vector commitments and their applications.
InPublic-Key Cryptography (PKC). Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, 55–72. doi:10.
1007/978-3-642-36362-7_5
[7] John R. Douceur. 2002. The Sybil attack. InInternational Workshop on Peer-to-Peer
Systems (IPTPS). Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, 251–260. doi:10.1007/3-540-45748-
8_24
[8] Filecoin. 2026. Network performance. Retrieved July 21, 2026 from https://docs.
filecoin.io/networks-and-tools/networks/mainnet/network-performance
[9] Ben Fisch. 2018. PoReps: Proofs of space on useful data. https://eprint.iacr.org/
2018/678 Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2018/678.
[10] Chuanlei Li, Minghui Xu, Jiahao Zhang, Hechuan Guo, and Xiuzhen Cheng. 2024.
SoK: Decentralized storage network.High-Confidence Computing4, 3 (2024),
100239. doi:10.1016/j.hcc.2024.100239
[11] Ninoslav Marina, Aneta Velkoska, Natasha Paunkoska, and Ljupcho Baleski.
2015. Security in Twin-code framework. InInternational Congress on Ultra
Modern Telecommunications and Control Systems and Workshops (ICUMT). IEEE,
Piscataway, NJ, USA, 247–252. doi:10.1109/ICUMT.2015.7382437
[12] Ralph C. Merkle. 1988. A digital signature based on a conventional encryption
function. InAdvances in Cryptology (CRYPTO). Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg,
369–378. doi:10.1007/3-540-48184-2_32
[13] Meta Platforms. 2012. RocksDB. Retrieved July 21, 2026 from https://rocksdb.org
[14] Mysten Labs. 2022. fastcrypto. Retrieved July 21, 2026 from https://github.com/
MystenLabs/fastcrypto
[15] Kamilla Nazirkhanova, Joachim Neu, and David Tse. 2022. Information dis-
persal with provable retrievability for rollups. InACM Conference on Ad-
vances in Financial Technologies (AFT). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 180–197.
doi:10.1145/3558535.3559778
[16] Anders Trier Olesen. 2023. reed-solomon-simd. Retrieved July 21, 2026 from
https://github.com/AndersTrier/reed-solomon-simd
[17] Yiannis Psaras and David Dias. 2020. The InterPlanetary File System and the
Filecoin network. InIEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems
and Networks, Supplemental Volume (DSN-S). IEEE, Piscataway, NJ, USA, 80–80.
doi:10.1109/DSN-S50200.2020.00043
[18] K. V. Rashmi, Nihar B. Shah, and P. Vijay Kumar. 2011. Enabling node repair
in any erasure code for distributed storage. InIEEE International Symposium on
Information Theory (ISIT). IEEE, Piscataway, NJ, USA, 1235–1239. doi:10.1109/
ISIT.2011.6033732
[19] Irving S. Reed and Gustave Solomon. 1960. Polynomial codes over certain finite
fields.J. Soc. Indust. Appl. Math.8, 2 (1960), 300–304. doi:10.1137/0108018
[20] Fred B. Schneider. 1990. Implementing fault-tolerant services using the state
machine approach: a tutorial.Comput. Surveys22, 4 (1990), 299–319. doi:10.1145/
98163.98167
14

W alrus: An Efficient Decentralized Storage Network
[21] Storj Labs, Inc. 2018. Storj: A decentralized cloud storage network framework.
https://www.storj.io/storjv3.pdf
[22] Storj Labs, Inc. 2026. Understanding file repair in a distributed network. Retrieved
July 30, 2026 from https://storj.dev/learn/concepts/file-repair
[23] Sui Foundation. 2023. Sui. Retrieved July 21, 2026 from https://sui.io
[24] Sui Foundation. 2026. Validator deployment and configuration. Retrieved July
21, 2026 from https://docs.sui.io/guides/operator/validator/validator-config
[25] Tokio. 2021. axum. Retrieved July 21, 2026 from https://github.com/tokio-
rs/axum
[26] David Vorick and Luke Champine. 2014. Sia: Simple decentralized storage.
Whitepaper, Nebulous Inc. https://sia.tech/sia.pdf
[27] Sam Williams, Viktor Diordiiev, Lev Berman, India Raybould, and Ivan Uemlianin.
2019. Arweave: A protocol for economically sustainable information permanence.
Arweave yellow paper, DRAFT-1. https://www.arweave.org/yellow-paper.pdf
[28] Ennan Zhai, Ruichuan Chen, David Isaac Wolinsky, and Bryan Ford. 2014. Head-
ing off correlated failures through Independence-as-a-Service. InUSENIX Sym-
posium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI). USENIX As-
sociation, Berkeley, CA, USA, 317–334. https://www.usenix.org/system/files/
conference/osdi14/osdi14-paper-zhai.pdf
15