FrodoPIR: Simple, Scalable, Single-Server Private
Information Retrieval
Alex Davidson, Gon¸ calo Pestana, Sof´ ıa Celi
Brave Software
Abstract. We design FrodoPIR — a highly conﬁgurable, stateful, single-
server Private Information Retrieval (PIR) scheme that involves an of-
ﬂine phase that is completely client-independent. Coupled with small
online overheads, it leads to much smaller amortized ﬁnancial costs on
the server-side than previous approaches. In terms of performance for a
database of 1 million 1KB elements, FrodoPIR requires < 1 second for
responding to a client query, has a server response size blow-up factor
of < 3.6×, and ﬁnancial costs are ∼ $1 for answering 100 , 000 client
queries. Our experimental analysis is built upon a simple, non-optimized
Rust implementation, illustrating that FrodoPIR is particularly suitable
for deployments that involve large numbers of clients.
1 Introduction
A Private Information Retrieval (PIR) scheme provides the ability for clients to
retrieve items from an online database, without revealing anything about their
queries to the untrusted host server(s). Applications of practical PIR schemes
include: anonymous communication [7, 61], anonymous media streaming [47],
privacy-preserving ad-delivery [45, 68, 63], private location discovery [37], pri-
vate contact discovery [16], password-checking [3], and SafeBrowsing [54]. PIR
schemes are split into those that are information-theoretically secure, but require
the database to be shared between multiple non-colluding servers [5, 26, 9, 11,
31, 10, 12, 75, 36, 35, 28, 40, 72, 58]; and those that are computationally-secure
against a single untrusted server [3, 31, 6, 21, 24, 38, 55, 56, 1, 64, 65, 62, 59].
Multi-server PIR constructions are typically more eﬃcient than single-server
schemes. However, ﬁnding non-colluding servers to jointly fulﬁll the PIR func-
tionality can be unrealistic and burdensome. To avoid such problems, devel-
oping practical single-server PIR schemes is a desirable goal. The most eﬃ-
cient single-server PIR schemes are based on fully homomorphic encryption
(FHE), with security derived from the ring learning with errors (RLWE) as-
sumption [1, 6, 62, 3, 64, 59]. Unfortunately, these schemes incur computational,
bandwidth, and consequent ﬁnancial overheads for answering client queries on
standard, cloud-based infrastructure that would make them expensive to run at
scale. Even the most eﬃcient require several seconds to process a single query
on a database of 1 million 1KB elements.
To drive down online and ﬁnancial costs, a recent line of work of single-
server PIR moves large proportions of the expensive online computation and

communication to an oﬄine phase [62, 65, 30] (a technique that also applies in the
two-server model [31, 58]). In this model, the client and server prepare an oﬄine
internal state to be used for making online queries. Such schemes are referred
to as oﬄine-online or stateful, as opposed to online-only or stateless. Many
works [62, 65, 30] have focused on developing PIR schemes with eﬃcient online
phases. The recent work of Corrigan-Gibbs et al. [30], for example, produces a
stateful single-server PIR scheme with sublinear eﬃciency costs.
A key diﬃculty that has gone unsolved is that either the computation or
the communication costs induced during the oﬄine phase scale linearly in the
number of clients that will make queries [62, 30, 65]. Moreover, previous schemes
require each individual client to make large numbers of queries (e.g. √m for m
DB elements) to ensure that the amortized costs remain sublinear. Ultimately,
this still results in signiﬁcant ﬁnancial costs for any server that plans to run a PIR
service in standard cloud-based infrastructure and that will answer queries from
large numbers of clients. As a consequence, single-server PIR remains unusable
in many real-world applications.
Our results. We build FrodoPIR: a stateful PIR scheme that is built directly
upon the learning with errors (LWE) problem only, rather than using RLWE and
FHE-based technologies. Similarly to FrodoKEM with respect to lattice-based
key exchange [17], we show that — counter to accepted intuition — eschewing
ring lattice structures can lead to ﬂexible and practically eﬃcient PIR schemes.
The main beneﬁt of FrodoPIR is that the oﬄine phase of the protocol is performed
by the server alone, completely independent of the number of clients or queries
that will be made. This results in low amortized computation overheads, and an
oﬄine client download size that is a tiny fraction of the entire server database.
Our results highlight that the current bottleneck for deploying practicalstate-
ful PIR schemes is heavily related to the per-client scalability of the oﬄine
preprocessing phase. Previous schemes have optimized primarily for per-client
asymptotics, which we show do not necessarily translate into ﬁnancially cheap
real-world systems. To this end, FrodoPIR represents an initial exploration in de-
veloping stateful PIR schemes that are suitable for large, real-world deployments,
where lowering ﬁnancial costs for server-side operators is of paramount impor-
tance. On top of this, FrodoPIR is signiﬁcantly simpler than previous schemes,
making no use of FHE techniques and requiring only modular arithmetic that
can be implemented using standard 32-bit unsigned integer instructions. Our
formal contributions are as follows:
1. A stateful single-server PIR scheme, known as FrodoPIR, with security de-
rived from LWE.
2. A simple, open-source Rust implementation — containing only a few hundred
lines of code. 1
3. Experimental analysis that illustrates that FrodoPIR is cheaper to run in
large multi-client deployments than all previous single-server PIR schemes.
1 https://github.com/brave-experiments/frodo-pir
2

4. Detailed analysis of various conﬁguration trade-oﬀs and optimizations for
FrodoPIR.
2 Background
2.1 Overview of Prior Approaches
PIR was ﬁrst introduced as a cryptographic primitive by Chor, Gilboa, Kushile-
vitz, and Sudan [28]. Information-theoretic PIR (itPIR) sees the client interact
with multiple non-colluding servers, each of which have access to some form of
the same database, and the client combines the responses from each server lo-
cally [5, 26, 9, 11, 31, 10, 12, 75, 36, 35, 40, 72, 58]. Computationally-secure
PIR (cPIR) relies only on a single-server, and provides computational security
based on cryptographic assumptions [3, 31, 6, 21, 24, 38, 55, 56, 1, 64, 65, 62].
While itPIR schemes are more eﬃcient, real-world systems that provide non-
collusion guarantees prove very hard to devise in practice. Thus, we focus on
cPIR henceforth.
Stateless PIR. Initial constructions of PIR schemes followed the framework of
Kushilevitz and Ostrowsky [55], using additively homomorphic encryption (from
number-theoretic assumptions) for hiding the client query [21, 24, 38, 56]. Such
schemes are known as online-only or stateless, since the client does not have
to store any information in order to launch queries. Stateless single-server PIR
schemes of this nature have the following underlying structure.
– To learn the ith DB element DB[i], a client sends a vector v of m additively
homomorphic ciphertexts, where v[i] encrypts 1 and all others encrypt 0.
– The server responds with a vector w, where w[j] = v[j]∗ DB[j] (j∈ [m],∗
denotes scalar multiplication and m denotes the number of DB elements).
– The client decrypts w[i] and learns DB[i].
Sion and Carbunar showed that such schemes actually perform much worse
than simply having the client download the entire server database (DB), when
the network bandwidth is just a few hundred Kbps [69]. This is a result of
performing O(m) expensive arithmetic operations (modular exponentiations or
multiplications) for every client query.
The results of [69] stood as a reference point for nearly a decade, until
Aguilar-Melchor et al. [1] used lattice-based cryptography (inherently faster
than number-theoretic approaches) to construct eﬃcient single-server PIR. In
their scheme, XPIR, the server computation time is approximately > 5 seconds
for a DB with m = 2 20 elements, even with the aforementioned asymptotic
overheads. Accordingly, bandwidth requirements for the client query are 18MB,
and 590KB for the server response. Various schemes since have used RLWE-
based FHE to propose similar schemes or optimizations of these methods, such
as [33, 6, 64, 3, 62, 59]. In particular, the works of [6, 62, 3, 64, 59] exhibit various
optimizations that transform the client query and server database to reduce the
size of the query and server response (to around 64KB and 128KB, respectively),
whilst maintaining similar or improving computational costs.
3

Stateful PIR. Unfortunately, stateless cPIR schemes still require computational
overheads that are diﬃcult to justify in a large-scale deployment. For example, to
respond to a single client query for a database of 1 million 256B entries, it takes
> 1 second, and requires downloading at least tens of kilobytes of data [6, 59].
Such approaches are unlikely to scale for large numbers of clients, or in situations
that require timely responses. Recent work has observed that online performance
can be improved by moving expensive, query-independent computation to an
initial oﬄine phase [65, 62, 31, 30]. This allows reducing the online costs, as well
as amortizing the costs of the oﬄine phase across a number of client queries.
The scheme of Patel et al., known as PSIR [65], enjoys a very fast online
phase, though this approach requires the client to download the entire server
database in an oﬄine phase — which violates fundamental PIR eﬃciency cri-
terion: the total client communication remains smaller than downloading the
entire database (Deﬁnition 5). The scheme of Mughees et al., known as State-
ful OnionPIR (henceforth SOnionPIR) [62], provides a (ﬁnancially) cheaper ap-
proach than PSIR, but at the cost of large computational overheads during the
oﬄine phase, which is executed as a protocol between each client and the server.
Thus, ﬁnancial costs will scale linearly in the global number of client queries that
are launched. While the single-server scheme of Corrigan-Gibbs and Kogan [31]
has similar issues as SOnionPIR, the very recent work of Corrigan-Gibbs et
al. [30] constructs a PIR scheme (henceforth CHKPIR) where all (amortized)
asymptotic complexities are sublinear in the number of DB elements m. Speciﬁ-
cally, costs areO(√m), when clients make√m queries. Previous schemes require
O(m) (symmetric) online operations. This reduces further the online costs, but
the costs of the oﬄine phase are very similar to the previous works of [65, 62].
In summary, the expensive oﬄine phase in each scheme — that only amortizes
per a single client’s queries — quickly becomes the main driver of the server-side
costs.
The general idea behind each of [65, 62, 30] is that each client and the server
cooperatively run a private batch sum retrieval protocol that samples c random
subsetsS1,...,S c of elements DB, and computes the sumsi of all of the elements
in each Si and provides it to the client. During the online phase, the client that
wants to query for the element ej = DB[j] picks the ﬁrst t∈ [c], where ej /∈St.
They then construct a partition P = (P1,...,P k) of the indices of DB, where
Pj = S, and send a succinct description of this partition to the server. The
server expands each partition into the set of sums sP1,...,s Pk. The client uses
an underlying single-server PIR scheme to learn the sumsPj, and, ﬁnally, outputs
sPj−st to learn ej.
The PSIR scheme implements the private batch sum retrieval protocol by
streaming the entire database to the client, while the SOnionPIR and CHKPIR
schemes both involve the client specifying their random subsets as FHE cipher-
texts, and having the server construct each of the sums using homomorphic prop-
erties. When instantiating the underlying single-server PIR scheme during the
online phase using FHE-based schemes (such as SealPIR, orstateless OnionPIR),
it has been shown that stateful PIR result in much more eﬃcient online phases
4

and signiﬁcantly smaller server costs, when compared with stateless, online-only
schemes [65, 62].
Other privacy-preserving data access primitives. Oblivious RAM (ORAM) pro-
vides data access pattern privacy for client queries to a server database [42, 43].
This problem is related to PIR, but provides privacy also for the server database:
the client learns the queried DB element and nothing more. While recent ORAM
schemes enjoy sublinear computation and communication [25, 32, 67, 70], none
are inherently multi-client and this leads to very expensive real-world overheads.
Hamlin et al. present Private Anonymous Data Access (PANDA) [48], based
on a symmetric-key formulation of PIR known as doubly-eﬃcient PIR [13, 19,
23]. Doubly-eﬃcient PIR schemes are similar to stateful schemes, where there is
an initial phase that preprocesses the server database, but the online phase is
totally stateless. Unfortunately, symmetric-key doubly-eﬃcient PIR is inherently
not multi-client. Public-key instantiations use multiple-servers [13], or are based
on expensive cryptographic obfuscation [19]. Batch PIR [52, 49, 8, 57] uses batch
codes to achieve sublinear amortized eﬃciency, by allowing clients to retrieve
multiple items at once. Unfortunately, such savings do not apply in settings where
queries are made adaptively — i.e. based on the results of previous queries —
which is required in most standard applications. As such, we focus on developing
eﬃcient PIR schemes for handling adaptive client queries.
2.2 Limitations of Existing Stateful PIR Schemes
Expensive preprocessing. The key limitation of SOnionPIR and CHKPIR is the
computational cost of the private batch sum retrieval protocol that takes place
during the oﬄine phase. This protocol must be invoked per-client, and involves
at least O(m) server-side operations and O(√m) communication (m =|DB|).
These costs are amortized across the number of queries c launched but, even
after amortization, the computational costs remain large. For a DB of 2 20 1KB
elements, the oﬄine phase of SOnionPIR takes 25 seconds per client query.2 For
large multi-client systems, the potential for amortization diminishes and these
costs quickly become prohibitive.
In contrast, in PSIR clients simply download the entire server database before
only storingO(c) data; this results in multiple issues. First, as shown in [62], for
large numbers of clients, the download cost becomes prohibitively large from a ﬁ-
nancial perspective, and will continue growing for larger databases and items [62].
Second, the PSIR approach is unable to satisfy the fundamental eﬃciency crite-
rion required of PIR schemes (Deﬁnition 5).
High online bandwidth consumption. As a result of using FHE-based single-
server PIR during the online phase, both SOnionPIR and PSIR have online
server response sizes that are relatively very large compared to the size of the
2 While CHKPIR has not been implemented, the oﬄine phase is very similar and thus
will incur similarly large computational overheads.
5

Table 1.Asymptotic comparison focusing on the dependency on the number of database
elements, m, of practical approaches for realizing single-server PIR with adaptive
queries (i.e. not including batch PIR schemes, logarithmic factors are ignored). All
costs are amortized according to C clients that launch c =√m queries (m =|DB| is
the total number of elements in the server database). Communication costs relate to
the amount of data that is sent to the party. The ﬁnancial costs are given relative to a
database containing 220 1KB elements, are amortized per-query and per-client, and are
calculated assuming a server that operates the same AWS EC2 architecture speciﬁed
in Section 6. †The costs of CHKPIR are assumed to be zero for the online phase, and
are thus completely dominated by the oﬄine phase, which can be implemented using
techniques from [65, 62, 30].
Approach Security
assumptions
Client costs Server costs
Communication Computation Storage Communication Computation Financial
Oﬄine Online Oﬄine Online Oﬄine Online Oﬄine Online
Stateless [6, 62, 3] RLWE — m — m — — 1 — m $5.2× 10−3
PSIR [65] RLWE — 1 m √m √m |DB|/√m 1 — m $8.8× 10−5
SOnionPIR [62] RLWE √m 1 k·√m k √m √m 1 √m m $6.4× 10−4
CHKPIR [30] RLWE √m √m √m √m √m √m 1 √m √m ∼ $8.8× 10−5†
FrodoPIR LWE — m m 1 λ λ ·m−1/2 1 √m/C m $(1.9/C× 10−2 + 1.3× 10−5)
queried DB element. For example, for 1KB data elements, the response blow-
up in SOnionPIR is 128 ×, while in PSIR it is 320 ×. The work of CHKPIR
uses similar underlying primitives and thus results in similar communication
overheads.
Practical security parameters. PSIR and SOnionPIR provide 115 and 111 bits of
security, respectively [62, 65] using the primal-USVP cost model for estimating
the hardness of cryptographic lattices, as shown in [2]. Achieving 128 bits of
security can be important in cases where cryptographic tools must satisfy regu-
latory compliance checks. Increasing the concrete security parameters of either
scheme would require modifying the LWE parameters that are used which, in
turn, will signiﬁcantly impact the eﬃciency of both schemes.
Lack of simple, available implementations. There are no public implementations
of stateful PIR schemes. Additionally, no previous scheme implements their state-
ful PIR scheme as part of their experimental analysis. This means that the com-
putational overheads of running existing schemes are either extrapolated from
stateless PIR implementations, or remain unavailable. Having simple, small, and
available implementations is a signiﬁcant advantage when it comes to assessing
the eﬃciency and security guarantees that are provided, during security and
scientiﬁc auditing processes.
2.3 Overview of FrodoPIR
Figure 1 gives a diagrammatic overview of the following steps.
6

A
PRG(µ)
DB
M
Each client
downloads
(µ, M)
(1) Server Oﬄine Pre-processing
sb = A + e
PRG(µ){0,±1} {0,±1}
$ $
sc = M
(2) Client Oﬄine Pre-processing
b x i
0
0
+ ~b Send to
server
(3) Client Online Query for Index i
~b
DB
~c
Return
~c to
client
(4) Server Online Response
~c c− DB[i]Round ≈
(5) Client Output
Fig. 1. An overview of FrodoPIR. In (1), the server compresses their databaseDB (repre-
sented as a matrix) into M, via multiplication with the global matrix A that is derived
randomly from a public seedµ. The client downloads (µ, M), and in (2) they preprocess
a query and store (b,c), note that b is an LWE sample and is thus randomly distributed.
In the online phase, in (3), the client creates their query by adding an indicator value
x to the ith vector entry of ~b. In (4), the server multiplies the client query vector with
their DB matrix and return the result, ~c. Finally, in (5), the client subtracts c from
~c — rounding the result to remove any error terms — and learns the ith row of DB.
The full scheme is given in Section 4.
1. In the oﬄine phase, the server interprets the database as a matrix, applies a
compression function to said matrix and makes the results available as global
public parameters. This compression function shrinks the size of the database
by a factor of approximately m/λ, where λ is the security parameter and m
is the number of database elements. Thus, the size of the parameters is no
longer linear in the size of the database.
2. The client downloads the public parameters, and can compute c sets of pre-
processed query parameters.
3. In the online phase, the client uses a single set of preprocessed query param-
eters to produce an “encrypted” query vector, which is sent to the server.
4. The server responds to the query by multiplying the vector with their database
matrix.
5. The client returns the result by “decrypting” the response using their pre-
processed query parameters.
7

The security of the system relies on the decisional LWE problem3: each client
query is a noisy vector that appears uniformly random to the server. Security
conservatively holds up to a global number of client queries that the server wit-
nesses. When this is reached, the server simply reruns the compression function
using newly sampled randomness, and the clients download and process the new
parameters.4
While the ideas behindFrodoPIR are fundamentally similar to previous RLWE-
based PIR schemes, the key diﬀerentiating factor is that it uses a secure, client-
independent preprocessing phase. Moreover, the total client download is much
smaller than schemes that involve streaming the entire server database. This
trade-oﬀ results in a scheme that is signiﬁcantly cheaper than all previous ap-
proaches, including those that achieve sublinear computation and communica-
tion complexities such as [30]. FrodoPIR is especially well-suited to operating
on databases containing many small elements. Moreover, FrodoPIR consistently
achieves low runtimes across various database shapes (see Section 6).
The main limitation of the FrodoPIR approach is that online client queries
are linear in the size of the database, which can be much larger than previous
schemes. Fortunately, we show that FrodoPIR is highly conﬁgurable and that we
are able to reduce client query sizes (as well as server-side online computation)
at the cost of increasing the client download size (see Section 5.4 for more de-
tails). Another limitation is that the server database transformation can result
in storing a larger amount than the database itself. Roughly speaking, the server
database matrix is 3× as large as the original database. Such database transfor-
mations are common in PIR: RLWE-based schemes usually store their database
in a format that allows using number-theoretic transform operations easily; and
store database elements as FHE ciphertexts which can lead to a 2 × increase in
database storage.
We provide a functionality, eﬃciency, and coarse-level ﬁnancial comparison
between FrodoPIR and previous stateless/stateful PIR schemes in Table 1. We
illustrate how amortization of oﬄine computation across all client leads to sig-
niﬁcant eﬃciency advantages compared with previous stateful PIR schemes in
Section 6.
3 Preliminaries
3.1 Notation
We denote vectors and matrices in lower- and upper-case bold-face, respectively.
All vectors v are assumed to be in column orientation, and we write vT to
denote the same vector in row orientation. For a set of vectors x1,..., x𝓁, we
3 We base security speciﬁcally on a well-known variant of LWE, known as the decisional
ternary LWE problem (Assumption 1).
4 Less conservative security analyses suggest that the number of queries may not have
such a strong impact on security, see Appendix C for wider discussion.
8

write [x1‖···‖ x𝓁] to denote the matrix with the ith column set to equal xi for
i∈ [𝓁].
Let⌊x⌉∈ Z denote rounding x∈ R to the nearest integer, rounding down
in case of a tie. Likewise, we use ⌈x⌉ to indicate explicitly rounding x∈ R to
the next highest integer. For x∈ Zm
q , we write⌊x⌉p to denote the computation
of⌊p/q· x⌉, where the rounding is applied to each entry of x individually. For
some setX , we writex←$X to denote thatx is sampled fromX uniformly, and
we write x←$ (X )m to denote sampling an m-dimensional vector, with each
entry sampled uniformly from X . We write log( x) to denote taking the base-
2 logarithm of x. We use λ to denote the security parameter throughout, and
say that an algorithmA is PPT if it runs in probabilistic polynomial-time with
respect to λ.
3.2 Mathematical Preliminaries
We use the learning with errors (LWE) problem in its decisional version, which
is equivalent to its search version as proven by Regev [66] for prime moduli, and
was later shown to be equivalent for all moduli [60, 20].
Deﬁnition 1. (Decisional LWE problem) Let χ be some distribution, and let
q,n,m > 0 depend on λ. The decision LWE problem ( L WEq,n,m,χ) is to dis-
tinguish between:
(A, sT· A + eT )∈ Zn×m
q × Zm
q , (1)
(A, u)∈ Zn×m
q × Zm
q , (2)
where A←$ Zn×m
q , sT← (χ)n, eT← (χ)m, and u←$ Zm
q .
Evidence that L WEq,n,m,χ is hard to solve for appropriate choices of χ — for
example small Gaussian distributions — and for both classical and quantum
adversaries follows via reduction from standard worst-case lattice problems [66]
(as hard as worst case problems on n-dimmesional lattices).
Variants of LWE. The following assumption states that decisionalL WEq,n,m,χ re-
mains hard whenχ is the uniform distribution over ternary values (i.e.{0,±1}).
Assumption 1 (Ternary LWE [20])The L WEq,n,m,χ problem is hard to solve when
χ is the uniform distribution on{−1, 0, 1} (i.e. the uniform ternary distribution).
It follows from the work of Brakerski et al. [20] that Decisional LWE with
ternary secrets is as hard as the problem investigated by Regev [66]. Moreover,
many examples of well-established cryptographic schemes rely on the hardness of
LWE using both secrets and errors sampled from a uniform ternary distribution,
such as [51, 15, 34, 46].
In Deﬁnition 2 we give a variant of L WEq,n,m,χ known as the Matrix LWE
problem (denoted by MatL WEq,n,m,χ,𝓁). Corollary 1 shows that MatL WEq,n,m,χ,𝓁
is hard to solve, with only polynomial security loss compared withL WEq,n,m,χ [17].
9

Deﬁnition 2. (Decisional Matrix LWE problem [17]) Let χ be some distribu-
tion, and let q,n,m,𝓁 > 0 depend on λ. The decisional Matrix LWE problem
(MatL WEq,n,m,χ,𝓁) is to distinguish between:
(A, S· A + E)∈ Zn×m
q × Z𝓁×m
q , (3)
(A, U)∈ Zn×m
q × Z𝓁×m
q , (4)
where A←$ Zn×m
q , S← (χ)𝓁×n, E← (χ)𝓁×m, and U←$ Z𝓁×m
q .
Corollary 1. (Hardness of MatL WEq,n,m,χ,𝓁 [17]) LetA be a PPT adversary
against MatL WEq,n,m,χ,𝓁 with advantage ϵ, then we can construct a PPT ad-
versaryB against L WEq,n,m,χ with advantage ϵ/𝓁.
We now state the following as a corollary of the central limit theorem, to
provide an upper bound on the size of sums of elements sampled from uniform
ternary distributions.
Corollary 2. (Bounds on uniform ternary sums)For suﬃciently largem = poly(λ),
the sum of m samples taken from the uniform distribution over ternary values
(i.e.{−1, 0, 1}) is bounded by 4√m with all but negligible probability.
3.3 Stateful Private Information Retrieval
As discussed, in this work, we will consider stateful PIR schemes, where the
PIR interactions are split into a query-independent oﬄine phase and a query-
dependent online phase [65]. A stateful PIR scheme consists of an oﬄine and an
online phase, which are deﬁned as follows.
Oﬄine phase:
– ssetup(1λ): An algorithm run by the server that outputs some initialization
parameters ip.
– cinit(ip): A client initialization algorithm run on parameters ip. Outputs a
message msg to be sent to the server during the oﬄine phase.
– spreproc(ip, DB,msg ): A server preprocessing algorithm run on ip, the server
database DB, and client message msg. Outputs a set of public parameters
pp to be downloaded by the client.
– cpreproc(ip, pp): A client preprocessing algorithm run on the server-generated
public parameters ( ip, pp), that outputs a state st.
Stateful PIR schemes that omit the cinit algorithm are said to have client-
independent preprocessing phases.
Online phase:
– query(st,i ): A client algorithm that generates a PIR query q for the item in
theith index of the server database, and optionally returns an updated state
st′.
– respond(DB, q): A server algorithm that outputs a response r to be returned
to the client.
– process(st, r): A client algorithm that takes the sever response r, and outputs
a database element x.
10

3.4 PIR requirements
Stateful PIR schemes must guarantee the following.
Correctness. The following correctness deﬁnition ensures that clients receive the
correct response with overwhelming probability when interacting with an honest
server.
Deﬁnition 3. (Correctness) Let DB be the server database, let i be the index that
the client seeks to query during the online phase, and let DB[i] be the ith entry
of DB. We say a PIR scheme is correct if the following inequality is satisﬁed.
Pr

x = DB[i]
⏐⏐⏐⏐⏐⏐⏐⏐
ip←ssetup(1λ)
pp←spreproc(ip,DB,cinit(ip))
st←cpreproc(ip,pp)
q←query(st,i)
r←respond(DB,q)
x←process(st,r)

> 1− negl(λ)
Security. We use the standard deﬁnition of security in enforcing the indistin-
guishability of client queries. As is common throughout PIR literature, this as-
sumes a semi-honest server, that follows the protocol correctly and attempts to
learn more based on the client messages they receive.
Deﬁnition 4. (1-query indistinguishability) As stated, let DB be the server database.
Generate the server public parameters by running ip← ssetup(1λ) and pp←
spreproc(ip, DB, cinit(ip)), and let st← cpreproc(ip, pp) be the client state. We
say that a PIR scheme is secure if, for any PPT adversary A specifying in-
dices i0,i 1 that is given qb← query(st,ib) for b←${0, 1}, then A has negligible
probability in correctly guessing b.
The above deﬁnition can be expanded to specify 𝓁-query indistinguishability,
in other words that two sets of size 𝓁 of client queries are indistinguishable from
each other [65].
Eﬃciency. PIR schemes require a communication overhead smaller than the
solution of having clients download the entire server database. In the stateful
PIR case, it should hold when amortizing costs over the number of client queries.
Deﬁnition 5. (Eﬃciency) For a single client launching c queries, a PIR scheme
is eﬃcient if the total client communication overhead is smaller than |DB|.
Therefore, for stateful schemes, the total client communication cost is calcu-
lated using the equation: comms(offline) +c·comms(online).
4 Our Scheme
We now describe the FrodoPIR scheme, writing FPIR for short.
11

4.1 Cryptographic Setup
Recall that S is the server holding the database DB that each client attempts
to learn entries from. DB is an array of m elements, each made up of w bits.
Each entry is associated with the index i that corresponds to its position in the
array. For now, we will assume that the client knows which index it would like
to query during the online phase of the protocol. 5 We assume that there are
C clients that will each launch a maximum of c queries against DB. Regarding
the LWE instantiation that is used: let n and q be the LWE dimension and
modulus, respectively; let ρ be the number of bits packed into each entry of the
DB matrix; let 0 < ρ < q; let χ be the uniform distribution over {−1, 0, 1};
and let λ be the concrete security parameter. Finally, we use PRG(µ,x,y,q ) to
denote a pseudorandom generator that expands a seedµ←${0, 1}λ into a matrix
in Zx×y
q .
4.2 Preprocessing Phase
We ﬁrst describe the oﬄine phase which occurs before the client makes any
queries to the server. Note that cinit is not required in FrodoPIR, and thus we
do not deﬁne it.
Server setup ( FPIR.ssetup). The server constructs their database containing m
elements, and samples a seed µ∈{ 0, 1}λ.
Server preprocessing (FPIR.spreproc). In this phase, the server derives a matrix
A← PRG(µ,n,m,q ), where A∈ Zn×m
q . It then runs D← parse(DB,ρ ), where
parse encodes the DB into a matrix D∈ Zm×ω
ρ , and where ω =⌈w/ log(ρ)⌉.6
The server stores D.
To generate public parameters, the server runs M← A· D, and then pub-
lishes the pair ( µ, M)∈ {0, 1}λ× Zn×ω
q to a public repository accessible by
clients.
Client preprocessing ( FPIR.cpreproc). Each client downloads (µ, M) from the
public repository, and runs A ← PRG(µ,n,m,q ). The client then samples c
vectors sj← (χ)n and ej← (χ)m. Finally, it computes bj← sjT· A+ ejT∈ Zm
q
and cj← sjT· M∈ Zω
q , for each j∈ [c], and stores the pairs internally as the
set X = (bj, cj)j∈[c].
4.3 Online Phase
Client query generation ( FPIR.query). For the index i that the client wishes to
query, the client generates a vector fi = (0,..., 0,q/ρ, 0,..., 0), i.e. the all-zero
vector except where fi[i] = q/ρ. The client then pops a pair ( b, c) from the
internal state st that it maintains, and computes ~b← b + fi∈ Zm
q , and sends ~b
to the server.
5 Section 7 discusses options for mapping string-based queries to indices.
6 Thus, the ith row consists of ω log(ρ)-bit chunks of DB[i]∈ Zω
ρ .
12

Server response ( FPIR.respond). The server receives ~b from the client, and re-
sponds with ~c←~bT· D∈ Zω
q .
Client postprocessing ( FPIR.process). The client receives ~c, and outputs x←
⌊~c− c⌉ρ∈ Zω
ρ .
4.4 Correctness
The output of the client postprocessing phase is x←⌊~c− c⌉ρ. Expanding the
right-hand side of the equation gives:
x =⌊~c− c⌉ρ
=⌊(sT· A + eT + fi
T )· D− (sT· A· D)⌉ρ
=⌊(e + fi)T· D⌉ρ.
(5)
Noting that⌊fi
T· D⌉ρ = D[i] where the ith row D[i]∈ Zω
ρ is interpreted as a
column vector, then proving that
⌊eT· D + fi
T· D⌉ρ =⌊fi
T· D⌉ρ (6)
results in the client learning the correct output. This gives rise to the following
theorem.
Theorem 2. (Correctness) If q≥ 8ρ2√m, then FPIR is correct with high proba-
bility.
Proof. See Appendix A.1.
4.5 Security
To prove security of FrodoPIR, we show that any query ~b← FPIR.query(i) is
distributed uniformly in Zm
q from the perspective ofS (Theorem 3). This general
result proves that FPIR satisﬁes 1-query indistinguishability (Deﬁnition 4) and
we further show that this holds for 𝓁 = poly(λ) client queries in Corollary 3.
Since,χ is the uniform ternary distribution, the proofs therefore follow from the
hardness of the decisional ternary LWE problem (Assumption 1).
Theorem 3. (1-query indistinguishability) FPIR is secure under observation of 1
query, under the assumption that L WEq,n,m,χ is diﬃcult to solve.
Proof. See Appendix A.2.
Corollary 3. (𝓁-query indistinguishability) FPIR is secure under observation of
𝓁 = poly(λ) queries, under the assumption that MatL WEq,n,m,χ,𝓁 is diﬃcult to
solve.
Proof. See Appendix A.3.
13

Table 2. Communication overheads (bits) of FrodoPIR.
Oﬄine Online
Client upload — m log(q)
Client download λ +nω log(q) ω log(q)
Table 3. Number of operations required in FrodoPIR.
spreproc cpreproc query respond process
mod q mults nmω n (m +ω) — mω —
mod q adds n(m− 1)ω (n− 1)(m +ω) 1 ( m− 1)ω ω
PRG nm nm — — —
4.6 Eﬃciency
We give the conditions under which FPIR satisﬁes the eﬃciency goal of a PIR
scheme, as laid out in Deﬁnition 5.
Theorem 4. (Eﬃciency) Letc be the upper bound of a single client’sFPIR queries.
Then FPIR is eﬃcient when:
λ +nω log(q) +c(m +ω) log(q)< |DB|.
Proof. This follows from Deﬁnition 5, considering the communication costs of
FrodoPIR (see Table 2).
5 Parameter Settings and Conﬁgurations
We now describe parameter settings and potential optimizations that demon-
strate the versatility of FrodoPIR. The major parameters of the scheme to be
conﬁgured are: the concrete security parameter λ; the LWE dimension n; the
LWE modulus q; the uniform ternary distribution, χ, used for sampling LWE
secret and error vectors; the number of bits, ρ, packed into each entry of the DB
matrix, D; the number of elements, m, in the server DB; and the bit-length, w,
of each element in the server database.
The communication overheads of FrodoPIR are given in Table 2, the number
of required computational operations are given in Table 3, and the storage over-
heads in Table 4.7 Clearly, the aforementioned parameters all have an impact on
the protocol eﬃciency.
7 Recall that ω =w/ log(ρ).
14

Table 4. Storage overheads of FrodoPIR in bits, according to whether client performs
any oﬄine preprocessing of queries (where c is the number of preprocessed queries), or
not. When no preprocessing is performed, the client storage overhead is logarithmically
dependent on the number of elements in DB.
with preprocessing without
Server storage λ +mω log(ρ) λ +mω log(ρ)
Client storage λ +c(m +ω) log(q) λ +nω log(q)
5.1 Required Invariants
Firstly, for eﬃciency, FrodoPIR must satisfy Theorem 4:
λ +nω log(q) +c(m +ω) log(q)<mw. (7)
Secondly, for correctness (Theorem 2), we must have that:
q≥ 8ρ2√m, (8)
holds. Finally, for security,MatL WEq,n,m,χ,𝓁 must provide at least 128 bits of con-
crete classical security. We can estimate the concrete security of LWE instances
with the lattice security estimator [2], see Appendix D.
5.2 Fixing LWE Parameters
Before conﬁguring FrodoPIR for eﬃciency, we ﬁrst ﬁx a set of parameters that
provide the necessary concrete security guarantees. We focus on those parameters
for MatL WEq,n,m,χ,𝓁, except for m which is the number of DB elements.
Firstly,χ is the uniform ternary distribution. Secondly, we setq = 232, which
allows us to use standard 32-bit unsigned integer operations for the implementa-
tion of the Zq operations. Thirdly, we setn = 1774 as the LWE dimension. This
choice conservatively estimates the security of the MatL WEq,n,m,χ,𝓁 instance, us-
ing the work of Albrecht et al. [2] to provide the security of ν = L WEq,n,m,χ,
and then calculate the concrete security parameter asλ =ν−log𝓁 (Corollary 1)
using the primal-USVP cost model. As 𝓁 is the total number of queries that the
server observes, we set𝓁 = 252 queries as a suitable upper bound before rotation
of A is required. When A is rotated, the security of the scheme is reset. There-
fore, λ =ν− 52. The code that we eventually run for estimating the security of
ν is given in Appendix D.
The conservative analysis above dictates that for larger numbers of queries,
the concrete security of the instance will decrease polynomially in the number
of queries — until a new LWE matrix A is resampled. 8 Note that no attacks
currently exist that exploit the security of MatL WEq,n,m,χ,𝓁 in this way. As such,
8 Since PIR is constructed in a semi-honest security model, we safely assume that the
server resamples A when it is required to do so.
15

Table 5. Database, query, and security parameter settings.
q 232 232 232 232 232
n 1774 1774 1774 1774 1774
m 216 217 218 219 220
ρ 210 210 210 29 29
κ 13.028 26 .056 52 .112 93 .802 187 .603
λ 128 128 128 128 128
a less conservative analysis may be valuable in allowing smaller dimensions n,
by simply estimating the security for smaller values of 𝓁, or by estimating the
security ofν = L WEq,n,m,χ only. We discuss the performance impact of choosing
smaller values of n in Appendix C.
5.3 Recommended Database Parameters
Let κ = (log(ρ)·m)/(n· log(q)) denote the improvement factor relative to the
oﬄine client download when compared to the original DB size. In Table 5, we
give recommended parameter settings for FrodoPIR. For each parameter set, the
concrete security parameter is 128 bits for 2 52 client queries. Security can be
increased by increasing the dimension n, though, this reduces κ. The lattice
security estimates that we derive are produced using the code detailed in Ap-
pendix D.
In Section 6, we consider DB elements of size w = 1KB, which leads to
ω∈{ 820, 911}, depending on the value of ρ. In Section 6.3, we also highlight
how performance changes when considering DB elements of larger sizes.
5.4 Additional Optimizations
Processing larger databases via sharding. As m increases beyond 2 20, we see a
greater relative saving of download costs relative to the ﬁxed n that is used (as
parameterized byκ). However, this has undesirable impacts on the performance
of the scheme. First, all online server-side computation in the online phase is
linearly dependent on m, and so increasing m immediately results in higher
latency. The oﬄine work scales similarly for client devices, which are typically
constrained and unlikely to cope with vast overheads. Second, the client query
size rapidly grows as it is also linearly dependent on m.
Overall, we expect that the best approach for operating on larger databases
is to shard them into s parallel instances, each using a database of size m/s.
Each instance can then independently process the same single client query. This
allows the client to learn the ith index from each of the s shards from only
a single query. This allows parallelization of server computation, and careful
management of available computing resources. On the client-side, the size of the
online query is linear in m/s, rather than m, which can lead to more eﬃcient
uploads. However, this comes at the cost of increasing the client download by a
16

factor of s. As a result, sharding allows developing diﬀerent trade-oﬀs for client
upload/download for various situations. Previous work has already highlighted
the beneﬁts of performing such sharding on the server database [33] in terms of
increasing amortization factors and allowing further degrees of parallelization.
Note that each client must download the public parameters of each of the
individual shards. This increases the size of the client download, but with the
beneﬁts of reducing the size of their own query and reducing server-side la-
tency. Additionally, noting the independence of each server-side vector-column
multiplication in FrodoPIR, we could equally leverage sharding by splitting the
server database matrix into smaller subsets of columns for handling larger data
elements.
Database updates. Sharding alone does not reduce the client overhead in prepro-
cessing queries, which remain linear in the total database size. This can become
expensive if the server database is updated frequently: each time the client has
to regenerate their preprocessed query data.
However, coupling sharding with a database updating procedure that touches
only few of the shards can reduce database updates to only re-running thessetup,
cpreproc, and spreproc procedures on a small fraction of the database. Speciﬁ-
cally, if database updates are conﬁned to a single shard of the database, then
these procedures need only be run on that particular shard after every update.
Updating a single shard of the database results in only requiring the client to
download and process an amount of data that is a 1/(κ·s) fraction of the entire
database. Even for large databases, this fraction is likely to be very small.
Achieving logarithmic client-storage overhead. Table 4 clearly highlights that
storage overheads for clients are dependent on c, the number of preprocessed
queries. These costs can be reduced signiﬁcantly to being logarithmically depen-
dent on m, by simply not performing any preprocessing. The reason that the
costs are logarithmic is that the client storage is equal to ( λ +nω log(q)) where,
as mentioned in Section 5, q is chosen to be equal to 8ρ2√m. This approach re-
quires derivation of the matrix A and query parameters for every online query.
Since the derivation of A is fairly costly, computation-constrained clients will
beneﬁt from preprocessing client queries.
6 Experimental Analysis
We provide an experimental analysis of the incurred computational runtimes,
bandwidth usage, and ﬁnancial costs when running FrodoPIR. Further, we high-
light how such costs amortize over the one-time oﬄine preprocessing phase.
Finally, we compare these costs with the previous stateful PIR schemes —
PSIR [65], SOnionPIR [62], and CHKPIR [30].
Performance benchmarks. We run all experiments as single-threaded processes
on an Amazon t2.2xlarge EC2 instance, with 8 CPU cores and 32GB of RAM.9
9 Client-based functions are estimated using the same hardware.
17

This is equivalent to the setup that is used in [62] for comparing SOnionPIR and
PSIR. All computational costs correspond to CPU processing time. Bandwidth
costs are calculated using the overheads detailed in Table 2, where λ = 128.
Regarding ﬁnancial cost calculations, transferring data from server to clients
costs $0.09 per GB, the cost of data transfer from clients to server is free, and the
cost of computation is $0.3712 per hour of usage (or $0 .0464 per CPU hour). 10
Parameter choices. We provide non-amortized communication and computation
benchmarks for a single server database using each of the parameter settings
provided in Table 5. We choose w = 213 bits (i.e. 1KB database elements); and
set ρ = 210 for m≤ 218, and ρ = 29 otherwise. Section 6.3 provides additional
benchmarks for diﬀerent database shapes, such as in cases where database ele-
ments are much larger.
The parameters we use conservatively provide 128-bit security for around
252 client queries. In Appendix C, we discuss performance improvements when
the lattice dimension, n, is reduced to account for less conservative security
estimations.
Source code. Our open-source11 implementation of FrodoPIR is written in Rust,
consists of 735 lines of code, including tests, and requires no external dependen-
cies relating to cryptographic operations. All modular arithmetic is implemented
using instructions associated with the 32-bit unsigned integer type included in
the Rust standard library.
Example application. In Appendix B, we further illustrate how FrodoPIR can be
applied to real-world use-cases, taking, as an example, the Google SafeBrowsing
API [44].
6.1 Performance Results
Table 6 displays the non-amortized performance of FrodoPIR. This involves cal-
culating running times and bandwidth usage for running a single-threaded server
instance in interaction with a single client. Later, we analyze how the oﬄine costs
amortize on a per-query basis. Amortization is calculated over a variable number
of clientsC, and the number of per-client queries c (where we set c = 500 for all
experiments).
Oﬄine phase. The server generates their database matrix DB and public pa-
rameters. This is a client-independent operation that scales linearly in m. This
process includes pseudorandom derivation of the LWE matrix A∈ Zn×m
q from
a single λ-bit seed, which is also be computed by each client. After downloading
the public parameters, the client performs query-independent preprocessing for
each query that they will make. The results of preprocessing are used during the
online phase. These costs grow roughly linearly in m.
10 https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/on-demand/, August 2022.
11 https://github.com/brave-experiments/frodo-pir
18

Table 6. Non-amortized performance analysis of FrodoPIR. The “Client derive matrix”
cost refers to the cost of deriving the LWE matrix A from the seed µ, while “Client
query preprocessing” refers to the cost of query-independent preprocessing required
for a single query. The server oﬄine phase costs can be amortized globally across the
number of queries (C) that are performed, while the client download and parameter
derivation costs amortizes across the number of queries (c) that they individually make.
Number of DB items (log(m)) 16 17 18 19 20
Oﬄine
Client download (KB) 5682.47 5682.47 5682.47 6313.07 6313.07
Database preprocessing (s) 104.57 206.26 429.07 936.36 1895.2
Client derive matrix (s) 0.5826 1.1698 2.2118 4.7284 9.25
Client query preprocessing (s) 0.1468 0.2898 0.5795 1.182 2.343
Online
Client query (KB) 256 512 1024 2048 4096
Server response (KB) 3.203 3.203 3.203 3.556 3.556
Client query (ms) 0.0213 0.0422 0.0811 0.1648 0.3429
Server response (ms) 45.013 94.505 188.36 417.92 825.37
Client output (ms) 0.359 0.398 0.363 0.42 0.434
In terms of communication, the server publishes the λ-bit seed, µ, and the
matrix M ∈ Zn×ω
q , where ω = w/ log(ρ). The size of the client download is
static for each choice of log(ρ). As a consequence, the total cost only grows when
increasing m dictates that ρ must also decrease.
Online phase. The client computation consists of performing a single addition
operation to modify a single portion of preprocessed data. The client also per-
forms a very small amount of postprocessing of servers responses that is almost
static across all experiments, as it is linear inω. The dominant computation cost
is the server-side processing of the client query that is ≤ 0.83s for all database
sizes.
The dominant communication cost relates to the client query, which is equal
to m log(q) bits and scales linearly in the DB size. The server response is signif-
icantly smaller — ω log(q) bits — resulting in a < 3.6× overhead in the server
response size compared with the original 1KB data element.
Amortization of oﬄine phase. Many of the oﬄine costs in Table 6 can be amor-
tized signiﬁcantly over the number of queries that are launched. In Figure 2,
we give an overview of the rate of this amortization for DB preprocessing and
parameter generation steps (when servicing between 1K and 1M queries), as well
as the cost of the client downloads. The expensive cost of the one-time prepro-
cessing of DB amortizes over all queries globally, i.e. over all clients. The client
oﬄine preprocessing and download amortizes over the value of c.
The total amortized computation cost (per-query) for the server and clients
are given in Figure 3. We display server oﬄine costs that are amortized across
all client queries globally for between 1K and 1M queries. The majority of server
19

Fig. 2. Amortized (per-query) cost of server preprocessing (left), according to how many
client queries they service, and client oﬄine download size ( right).
costs occur during the relatively cheap online phase. The majority of client
work is performed during the query-independent oﬄine phase, part of which
(the derivation of A) can be amortized over c. Online costs for clients are very
small.
Storage costs. Figure 4 illustrates the growth of the client storage overhead
associated with the database size, when preprocessingc queries during the oﬄine
phase. This becomes fairly large when |DB| = 220, equalling roughly 2GB.
As mentioned in Section 5.3, it is possible to achieve log(m) client-side storage
overhead, which may be valuable for storage-constrained clients. The downside
is that client online query processing grows noticeably, as seen in the right-side
of Figure 4. This is due to having to perform all query-related processing in the
online phase, including the derivation of A from the public parameters (which
can take from between 0.5 to 9.25 seconds, depending on the database size). 12
Financial costs. The server-side ﬁnancial costs given in Figure 5 take into ac-
count the expenses associated with both bandwidth and single-threaded compu-
tation. The initial preprocessing of the server database is a little higher than 1
cent for a database of 2 20. The online per-query cost is tiny in comparison, and
approximately 0.001 of a cent even for the largest DB size. The total per-query
cost is calculated as the amortized oﬄine costs, plus the online per-query cost.
6.2 Comparison with Prior Work
In Figure 6, we compare the performance of FrodoPIR with SOnionPIR [62] and
PSIR [65]. Our comparison focuses on three performance criteria: computational
12 The matrix A must be rederived on usage to achieve log(m) storage.
20

Fig. 3. Total online and amortized (per-query) oﬄine computation costs for the server
(left), according to how many client queries they service, and for the client ( right).
runtimes, bandwidth usage, and ﬁnancial cost. Each comparison includes the
cost of answering queries in FrodoPIR against the estimated 13 costs of running
both SOnionPIR and PSIR. 14 Note that the costs presented in [62] result from
estimating SOnionPIR and PSIR on the same EC2 hardware (t2.2xlarge) that
we used for implementing FrodoPIR. We also provide details on how these costs
amortize as the number of clients grows.
Our comparison considers total database sizes of |DB|∈{ 216, 218, 220}, and
element sizes of 1KB. Note that SOnionPIR and PSIR allow packing of 30KB
and 3KB of data into each server response [62]. This eﬀectively allows shrinking
the server DB by a factor of 30× and 3×, respectively, in kind. Since such costs
are linear in the size of DB, we reduce the previously estimated runtime costs
of both schemes accordingly. Oﬄine costs for SOnionPIR are dependent on the
number of queries, c, that are made by each client. For each DB size we set
c = 500, the same value as used in [62]. For the ﬁnancial costs, we provide costs
per CPU hour of server-side computation. The comparison does not cover storage
costs or client computation as neither measurement is explicitly provided by the
previous schemes.
Supporting databases with more elements. Note that [62] provides estimated costs
of the SOnionPIR and PSIR schemes for a DB of size 2 24, but RAM overheads
of FrodoPIR mean that the t2.2xlarge EC2 instance is not powerful enough to
process a database of this size. This is also likely to be the case for the previous
schemes. Building an eﬃcient implementation of FrodoPIR for a database of 2 24
is possible by sharding, using 16 DB instances with 2 20 elements. In the interest
of maintaining a fair comparison without using parallelization, we do not modify
13 Neither previous stateful scheme has been fully implemented.
14 Where PSIR uses SealPIR as the underlying PIR scheme.
21

Fig. 4. Left: Storage costs for clients demonstrating the trade-oﬀ between amortization
of oﬄine preprocessing and ensuring logarithmic storage overhead relative tom. Right:
Comparison of online query costs when preprocessing, against performing all query-
related computation in the online phase.
the hardware used or make use of sharding. Thus, we limit the comparison to
database sizes≤ 220.
Security levels. We do not modify the security parameters of either SOnionPIR
or PSIR: they both oﬀer ≤ 115 bits of security according to [2]. In contrast,
FrodoPIR oﬀers 128-bit security for up to 1 billion client queries and higher secu-
rity levels for lower numbers. SOnionPIR and PSIR could achieve higher security
levels by doubling n,15 but while computation times would go unchanged, the
server online response size would increase dramatically.
Computation. In the oﬄine phase (Figure 6 (1)), the server-side computation
for PSIR is zero, since the client simply downloads the entire server DB. The
overall cost of computation inFrodoPIR grows linearly in the database size. While
SOnionPIR appears to outperform FrodoPIR for a single client, this cost increases
linearly in the number of queries that a client wishes to make. As a consequence,
if the number of queries per-client (c) increases, then the cost of SOnionPIR will
quickly become greater. More importantly, as the number of clients ( C) in the
system grows, this cost will continue to increase. In contrast, all preprocessing in
FrodoPIR is client-independent, and thus it is ﬁxed regardless of both c and C.
Therefore, in a large multi-client deployment, it is clear that FrodoPIR is much
cheaper than SOnionPIR.
In the online phase (Figure 6 (2)), PSIR provides the fastest computa-
tion times. Both FrodoPIR and SOnionPIR still provide competitive runtimes.
15 Smaller n would suﬃce, but n has to be a power-of-two to ensure the eﬃciency of
NTT-related optimizations.
22

Fig. 5. Financial costs (cents) associated with running the server in FrodoPIR. The
initial setup cost can be amortized globally across all client queries.
FrodoPIR requires≤ 0.825s for responding to a client query on a DB with 2 20
elements.
Communication. The oﬄine client download cost (Figure 6 (3)) in SOnionPIR
is heavily dependent on the number of queries that will be launched. The cost
of PSIR is essentially the cost of downloading the entire server DB. Note that
the client download in FrodoPIR grows logarithmically in the size of DB. Overall,
since the costs of FrodoPIR amortize across the number of queries launched by
the clients, with a much smaller initial cost than PSIR, it is clear that FrodoPIR
outperforms the alternatives.
In the online phase, the client download (Figure 6 (4)) inFrodoPIR is smallest
for all captured DB sizes. The server response growth rate, even for|DB| = 220, is
< 3.6×, which is signiﬁcantly smaller than that of SOnionPIR (128×) and PSIR
(320×). The major downside of the FrodoPIR approach is that the client query
in the online phase (Figure 6 (5)) grows linearly in the size of DB, and is much
larger than both SOnionPIR and PSIR — reaching 4MB for client queries when
|DB| = 2 20. As noted in Section 5.4, this cost can be reduced using database
sharding with the additional beneﬁt of reducing server computation times, but
at the cost of increasing client download sizes during the oﬄine phase.
Financial costs. In the oﬄine phase (Figure 6 (6)), PSIR provides by far the
most expensive option, due to the high network bandwidth usage. The costs of
SOnionPIR scale with the number of client queries. The costs ofFrodoPIR include
a client-independent preprocessing phase, and much lower bandwidth usage than
PSIR. Therefore, for large multi-client deployments, the costs of FrodoPIR will
clearly be much cheaper than both prior schemes.
The online ﬁnancial costs (Figure 6 (7)) for all protocols are much smaller
than in the oﬄine phase. By far, PSIR is the most expensive protocol to run in
23

Fig. 6. Comparison of per-client computational, communication, and ﬁnancial costs
for the server when running FrodoPIR, SOnionPIR, and PSIR, assuming that each
client makes c = 500 queries. We include amortized costs according to various num-
bers of clients C, to indicate the global amortization potential of FrodoPIR. Individual
charts: (1) Server oﬄine computation (secs) including amortization potential overC for
FrodoPIR; (2): Server online computation (ms), amortized according to number of DB
entries returned; (3): Client oﬄine download (KB); (4): Client online download (KB);
(5): Client online query (KB); (6): Server oﬄine ﬁnancial cost (US cents), compared
for diﬀerent values of C; (7): Server online ﬁnancial cost (US cents).
the online phase (again, due to the high communication overhead). The costs
of FrodoPIR outperform SOnionPIR, demonstrating that the trade-oﬀ between
computation and communication in FrodoPIR is concretely cheaper to realize on
the server-side.
Comparison with online-free PIR. The CHKPIR scheme [30] demonstrates en-
tirely sublinear (amortized) running times and communication costs. However,
this depends on each client launching a fairly large number of queries them-
selves (e.g.√m). As is noted in [30], the oﬄine phase can be implemented using
the methods of PSIR or SOnionPIR, and, regardless, it is still non-amortizable
across multiple clients.
To illustrate the bottleneck that the oﬄine phase introduces from a ﬁnancial
perspective, we consider a PIR scheme that haszero online costs (which is clearly
a signiﬁcant underestimate for CHKPIR), and has the oﬄine costs of SOnionPIR
(sublinear inm and generally lower than PSIR). As shown in Figure 7, FrodoPIR
24

Fig. 7. Comparison of total server ﬁnancial costs in FrodoPIR with an online-free PIR
scheme that implements the oﬄine phase using SOnionPIR. The costs are compared
for:C = 1 (solid line), C = 1000 (dashed line), and C = 1 million (dotted line) clients;
where each client makes c = 500 queries.
is cheaper to run for databases of size ≤ 218, for c·C queries. The costs are
almost identical when |DB| = 220. We can conclude that these results, coupled
with the beneﬁts of a simple and available implementation, makeFrodoPIR a very
attractive option for implementing fast and scalable PIR for large multi-client
systems.
6.3 Stateless PIR and Larger Database Elements
As mentioned in Section 2, stateless schemes tend to be less eﬃcient than state-
ful schemes. However, the very recent and notably eﬃcient Spiral PIR scheme
of Menon and Wu [59] has been shown to produce low running costs across
databases of various sizes and shapes. Spiral demonstrates highly promising per-
formance for both standard PIR use-cases, and those that involve streaming
large ﬁles.
To illustrate how FrodoPIR performs for diﬀerent database shapes, Table 7
compares the online computational and bandwidth costs of both FrodoPIR and
Spiral for each of the database types considered in [59], using the same AWS
c5n.2xlarge EC2 instance that is used in the original work. 16 In the table, the
rate of both schemes is the ratio of the response size to the retrieved database
element, and the throughput is the ratio of the database size to the server’s
computation time. In both cases, higher values are preferable.
16 Note that we speciﬁcally compare with the single query variant of Spiral (with pack-
ing optimizations [59]), rather than the SpiralStream variant that is optimized for
streaming use-cases.
25

Table 7. Comparison of single-threaded server-side performance between FrodoPIR and
Spiral across a variety of database sizes on a c5n.2xlarge AWS EC2 instance. †For
the database containing 2 18× 30KB elements, we extrapolate FrodoPIR compute per-
formance for a database containing 2 16 elements instead, since the EC2 instance does
not have suﬃcient memory for storing the preprocessed database of size 2 18.
Database Metric Spiral FrodoPIR
220× 256B
One-time preprocessing — 327s
Per-client download 14MB 1 .54MB
Query size 14KB 4MB
Resp. size 20KB 912B
Computation 1 .37s 0 .16s
Rate 0 .0125 0 .28
Throughput 196MB/s 1 .56GB/s
218× 30KB†
One-time preprocessing — 7703s
Per-client download 18MB 166MB
Query size 14KB 1MB
Resp. size 86KB 96KB
Computation 17 .69s 4 .27s
Rate 0 .3488 0 .3125
Throughput 434MB/s 1 .76GB/s
214× 100KB
One-time preprocessing — 1605s
Per-client download 47MB 554MB
Query size 14KB 64KB
Resp. size 188KB 320KB
Computation 4 .58s 0 .89s
Rate 0 .5307 0 .3125
Throughput 358MB/s 1 .76GB/s
Table 7 illustrates that FrodoPIR is very eﬃcient for narrow databases, where
each data element is relatively small, outperforming Spiral in almost all crite-
ria. Spiral generally outperforms FrodoPIR in cases where database elements
are larger: demonstrating smaller bandwidth usage and higher rate. However,
FrodoPIR demonstrates faster computation across all database sizes than Spiral,
and this leads to signiﬁcantly higher throughput in all cases. The oﬄine pre-
processing phase of FrodoPIR can be expensive, but recall that this amortized
across all clients (and queries) in the global system, and so these costs amortize
away fairly quickly.
Overall, in cases where database elements are relatively small, or where fast
computation is required, FrodoPIR excels compared to the recent state-of-the-
art in PIR design. In cases, where database elements are large, and bandwidth
and/or client storage are constrained, Spiral excels.
7 Discussion
Supporting Keyword Queries. In the interest of supporting more realistic database
queries, Chor et al. constructed a PIR-by-keyword framework, where the server
DB is a key-value store and client queries are keywords that recover the asso-
ciated values [27]. Their framework runs multiple instances of index-based PIR
as a black-box; FrodoPIR is compatible with this approach. The work of Boyle
26

et al. [18], based upon multi-server distributed point functions, includes direct
support for keyword queries directly, but it does not appear to generalize to
other PIR schemes.
As well as generic frameworks, FrodoPIR is compatible with external mech-
anisms for deciding keyword-to-index association. Such mechanisms include the
approach detailed by Kogan and Corrigan-Gibbs [54], that furnishes the client
withO(m) hash preﬁxes of each keyword, and associates each with a server DB
index. This allows the client to learn the index that they need to query, without
running multiple instances of the PIR scheme. It requires sending O(m) data to
the client but which, in practice, is a very small fraction of the real database.
We discuss practical costs in Appendix B.
Optimizations for server computation. We avoided discussing computational op-
timizations in this work, in favor of maintaining simplicity and conﬁgurability of
FrodoPIR. However, asymptotic overheads for computing matrix multiplications
have seen a variety of improvements over the last half a century [71, 29, 74, 4].
Such ﬁndings have been used in previous PIR schemes to reduce computational
workloads [57, 41]. The server oﬄine phase in FrodoPIR involves a large matrix
multiplication with dimensions n×m and m×ω, which would clearly beneﬁt
from sub-cubic multiplication methods. The client oﬄine phase, involves prepro-
cessing c queries, each involving a vector-matrix multiplication, which could be
batched together into a single matrix multiplication. Furthermore, the server on-
line phase involves a vector-matrix multiplication, for every client query. This op-
timization can be used by batching a number of queries together. As is observed
by Lueks and Goldberg [57], this enables the server’s work to scale sublinearly
in the number of client queries.
7.1 Applications of PIR
In Appendix B, we illustrate how eﬃcient FrodoPIR can be when applied to the
real-world of the SafeBrowsing API [44]. We list various other applications below
that could also beneﬁt. Valuable future work would identify whether FrodoPIR
is a practical candidate for solving such applications.
Certiﬁcate auditing. Certiﬁcate Transparency (CT) is a system created to in-
crease visibility of issued certiﬁcates. This system allows detection of misissued
certiﬁcates or other forms of Certiﬁcate Authorities (CA) misbehavior, via in-
teraction with one or more public logs. Clients should check that certiﬁcates are
indeed included in these logs, but this leads to a potential privacy violation as
it means that, over time, the client presents the browsing history of the user.
One can apply FrodoPIR to check whether the promise of inclusion is fulﬁlled.
Similar applications of PIR have been highlighted in concurrent work [50].
Certiﬁcate revocation checks. Certiﬁcate revocation checks typically use the On-
line Certiﬁcate Status Protocol (OCSP). This mechanism allows CAs to inform
27

clients if a certiﬁcate is revoked by having them query an endpoint. This mech-
anism, however, can violate privacy as the certiﬁcates are revealed to the CA.
An alternative is to have clients download certiﬁcate revocation lists (CRLs)
from endpoints maintained by CAs. This, though, comes with a huge storage
overhead and the need for regular updates. FrodoPIR could be used to perform
OCSP queries in a privacy-preserving manner.
PIR for streaming. PIR schemes such as Popcorn [47] and Spiral [59] identify PIR
as a potential solution for private streaming use-cases, where clients gradually
consume chunks of a large data element (such as a video). The capability of
FrodoPIR for sharding the server database (Section 5.4) could make it a viable
candidate in this setting.
7.2 Concurrent work
Concurrently to our work, the authors of [50] presented two new PIR schemes,
known as SimplePIR and DoublePIR. The SimplePIR approach uses the same
underlying mechanism as FrodoPIR, i.e. using LWE-based encryption reminiscent
of Regev [66], and structures the database in a similar way. The main diﬀerences
between the two approaches are described below.
– The database matrix is assumed to be square in [50], which means that the
client upload/download are balanced.
– The parameter choices for the LWE instance are slightly diﬀerent. The Sim-
plePIR scheme uses an LWE dimension of n = 1024, and also considers
moduli of size 2 16 and 232. The error distribution is also chosen to be a dis-
crete Gaussian with standard deviation parameter σ = 6.4. Moreover, the
plaintext modulus ρ ranges from 247 to 991.
Overall, these variations lead to some diﬀerences in the perceived performance.
For example, SimplePIR requires downloading a much bigger set of public pa-
rameters than in FrodoPIR: 124MB for a 1GB database, rather than ∼ 6MB.
The overall online communication is, however, smaller in SimplePIR, due to
the client upload being smaller than in FrodoPIR (242KB, against∼ 4MB). In
summary, we view these two schemes as complimentary, and further evidence
to highlight the inherent conﬁgurability of using the LWE-based approach when
building simple and eﬃcient PIR schemes.
The DoublePIR approach of [50] presents an optimization that we do not con-
sider here that refers to running SimplePIR twice: once on the original database
to recover the public parameters matrix M, and then again on this matrix M.
The observation arises from the original paper of Kushilevitz and Ostrowsky [55],
that observes that only a small part of this matrix is required when computing
the output of an online query (i.e. only the ith row of M). This allows reducing
the size of the client public parameters download to around 16MB, at the cost of
increasing the amount of work that the server does during the online phase. The
philosophy behind the DoublePIR optimisation is also applicable to FrodoPIR,
though we do not present explicit experimental results to see if it can result in
performance improvements here.
28

8 Conclusion
In this work, we built FrodoPIR. Via a simple proof-of-concept Rust implemen-
tation,17 we illustrated that FrodoPIR is concretely cheaper than the previous
state-of-the-art in building stateful PIR schemes, especially in large multi-client
deployments. Overall, we believe that FrodoPIR is the ﬁrst single-server PIR
scheme that is both ﬂexible and eﬃcient enough to be deployed at scale, for a
variety of applications.
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank Benjamin Livshits, Hamed Haddadi, Joe Rowell,
Muhammad Haris Mughees, Martin Albrecht, Ling Ren, Alexandra Henzinger,
Matthew M. Hong, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, and Sarah Meiklejohn for providing
helpful feedback during various stages of this work. This research received no
speciﬁc grant from any funding agency in the public, commercial, or not-for-
proﬁt sectors.
References
1. C. Aguilar Melchor, J. Barrier, L. Fousse, and M.-O. Killijian. XPIR: Private
information retrieval for everyone. PoPETs, 2016(2):155–174, Apr. 2016.
2. M. R. Albrecht, R. Player, and S. Scott. On the concrete hardness of learning with
errors. J. Math. Cryptol. , 9(3):169–203, 2015. (Estimates calculated Dec 2021).
3. A. Ali, T. Lepoint, S. Patel, M. Raykova, P. Schoppmann, K. Seth, and K. Yeo.
Communication–Computation trade-oﬀs in PIR. In 30th USENIX Security Sym-
posium (USENIX Security 21) , pages 1811–1828. USENIX Association, Aug. 2021.
4. J. Alman and V. V. Williams. A reﬁned laser method and faster matrix mul-
tiplication. In D. Marx, editor, 32nd SODA , pages 522–539. ACM-SIAM, Jan.
2021.
5. A. Ambainis. Upper bound on communication complexity of private information
retrieval. In P. Degano, R. Gorrieri, and A. Marchetti-Spaccamela, editors, ICALP
97, volume 1256 of LNCS, pages 401–407. Springer, Heidelberg, July 1997.
6. S. Angel, H. Chen, K. Laine, and S. T. V. Setty. PIR with compressed queries and
amortized query processing. In 2018 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy ,
pages 962–979. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2018.
7. S. Angel and S. Setty. Unobservable communication over fully untrusted infrastruc-
ture. In Proceedings of the 12th USENIX Conference on Operating Systems Design
and Implementation , OSDI’16, page 551–569, USA, 2016. USENIX Association.
8. S. Angel and S. Setty. Unobservable communication over fully untrusted infrastruc-
ture. In 12th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementa-
tion (OSDI 16) , pages 551–569, Savannah, GA, Nov. 2016. USENIX Association.
9. R. Beigel, L. Fortnow, and W. Gasarch. A tight lower bound for restricted pir
protocols. Computational Complexity , 15:82–91, 05 2006.
17 https://github.com/brave-experiments/frodo-pir
29

10. A. Beimel and Y. Ishai. Information-theoretic private information retrieval: A
uniﬁed construction. In F. Orejas, P. G. Spirakis, and J. van Leeuwen, editors,
ICALP 2001 , volume 2076 of LNCS, pages 912–926. Springer, Heidelberg, July
2001.
11. A. Beimel, Y. Ishai, E. Kushilevitz, and I. Orlov. Share conversion and private in-
formation retrieval. In 2012 IEEE 27th Conference on Computational Complexity ,
pages 258–268, 2012.
12. A. Beimel, Y. Ishai, E. Kushilevitz, and J.-F. Raymond. Breaking the O(n1/(2k−1))
barrier for information-theoretic private information retrieval. In43rd FOCS, pages
261–270. IEEE Computer Society Press, Nov. 2002.
13. A. Beimel, Y. Ishai, and T. Malkin. Reducing the servers computation in private in-
formation retrieval: PIR with preprocessing. In M. Bellare, editor, CRYPTO 2000,
volume 1880 of LNCS, pages 55–73. Springer, Heidelberg, Aug. 2000.
14. S. Bell and P. Komisarczuk. An analysis of phishing blacklists: Google safe brows-
ing, openphish, and phishtank. In Proceedings of the Australasian Computer Sci-
ence Week Multiconference , ACSW ’20, New York, NY, USA, 2020. Association
for Computing Machinery.
15. D. J. Bernstein, C. Chuengsatiansup, T. Lange, and C. van Vredendaal. NTRU
prime: Reducing attack surface at low cost. In C. Adams and J. Camenisch, editors,
SAC 2017, volume 10719 of LNCS, pages 235–260. Springer, Heidelberg, Aug. 2017.
16. N. Borisov, G. Danezis, and I. Goldberg. DP5: A private presence service. PoPETs,
2015(2):4–24, Apr. 2015.
17. J. W. Bos, C. Costello, L. Ducas, I. Mironov, M. Naehrig, V. Nikolaenko, A. Raghu-
nathan, and D. Stebila. Frodo: Take oﬀ the ring! Practical, quantum-secure key
exchange from LWE. In Weippl et al. [73], pages 1006–1018.
18. E. Boyle, N. Gilboa, and Y. Ishai. Function secret sharing: Improvements and
extensions. In Weippl et al. [73], pages 1292–1303.
19. E. Boyle, Y. Ishai, R. Pass, and M. Wootters. Can we access a database both
locally and privately? In Kalai and Reyzin [53], pages 662–693.
20. Z. Brakerski, A. Langlois, C. Peikert, O. Regev, and D. Stehl´ e. Classical hardness
of learning with errors. In D. Boneh, T. Roughgarden, and J. Feigenbaum, editors,
45th ACM STOC , pages 575–584. ACM Press, June 2013.
21. C. Cachin, S. Micali, and M. Stadler. Computationally private information retrieval
with polylogarithmic communication. In J. Stern, editor, EUROCRYPT’99, vol-
ume 1592 of LNCS, pages 402–414. Springer, Heidelberg, May 1999.
22. L. Caires, G. F. Italiano, L. Monteiro, C. Palamidessi, and M. Yung, editors.ICALP
2005, volume 3580 of LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, July 2005.
23. R. Canetti, J. Holmgren, and S. Richelson. Towards doubly eﬃcient private infor-
mation retrieval. In Kalai and Reyzin [53], pages 694–726.
24. Y.-C. Chang. Single database private information retrieval with logarithmic com-
munication. In H. Wang, J. Pieprzyk, and V. Varadharajan, editors, ACISP 04 ,
volume 3108 of LNCS, pages 50–61. Springer, Heidelberg, July 2004.
25. H. Chen, I. Chillotti, and L. Ren. Onion ring ORAM: Eﬃcient constant bandwidth
oblivious RAM from (leveled) TFHE. In L. Cavallaro, J. Kinder, X. Wang, and
J. Katz, editors, ACM CCS 2019 , pages 345–360. ACM Press, Nov. 2019.
26. B. Chor and N. Gilboa. Computationally private information retrieval (extended
abstract). In 29th ACM STOC , pages 304–313. ACM Press, May 1997.
27. B. Chor, N. Gilboa, and M. Naor. Private information retrieval by keywords.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 1998/003, 1998. https://eprint.iacr.org/
1998/003.
30

28. B. Chor, O. Goldreich, E. Kushilevitz, and M. Sudan. Private information retrieval.
In 36th FOCS, pages 41–50. IEEE Computer Society Press, Oct. 1995.
29. D. Coppersmith and S. Winograd. Matrix multiplication via arithmetic progres-
sions. J. Symb. Comput. , 9(3):251–280, mar 1990.
30. H. Corrigan-Gibbs, A. Henzinger, and D. Kogan. Single-server private information
retrieval with sublinear amortized time. In O. Dunkelman and S. Dziembowski,
editors, Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2022 , pages 3–33, Cham, 2022.
Springer International Publishing.
31. H. Corrigan-Gibbs and D. Kogan. Private information retrieval with sublinear
online time. In A. Canteaut and Y. Ishai, editors, EUROCRYPT 2020, Part I ,
volume 12105 of LNCS, pages 44–75. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2020.
32. S. Devadas, M. van Dijk, C. W. Fletcher, L. Ren, E. Shi, and D. Wichs. Onion
ORAM: A constant bandwidth blowup oblivious RAM. In E. Kushilevitz and
T. Malkin, editors, TCC 2016-A, Part II , volume 9563 of LNCS, pages 145–174.
Springer, Heidelberg, Jan. 2016.
33. C. Dong and L. Chen. A fast single server private information retrieval proto-
col with low communication cost. In M. Kutylowski and J. Vaidya, editors, ES-
ORICS 2014, Part I , volume 8712 of LNCS, pages 380–399. Springer, Heidelberg,
Sept. 2014.
34. L. Ducas, A. Durmus, T. Lepoint, and V. Lyubashevsky. Lattice signatures and
bimodal Gaussians. In R. Canetti and J. A. Garay, editors, CRYPTO 2013, Part I ,
volume 8042 of LNCS, pages 40–56. Springer, Heidelberg, Aug. 2013.
35. Z. Dvir and S. Gopi. 2-server PIR with subpolynomial communication. J. ACM ,
63(4):39:1–39:15, 2016.
36. K. Efremenko. 3-query locally decodable codes of subexponential length. SIAM J.
Comput., 41(6):1694–1703, 2012.
37. E. Fung, G. Kellaris, and D. Papadias. Combining diﬀerential privacy and PIR
for eﬃcient strong location privacy. In C. Claramunt, M. Schneider, R. C. Wong,
L. Xiong, W. Loh, C. Shahabi, and K. Li, editors,Advances in Spatial and Temporal
Databases - 14th International Symposium, SSTD 2015, Hong Kong, China, August
26-28, 2015. Proceedings, volume 9239 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages
295–312. Springer, 2015.
38. C. Gentry and Z. Ramzan. Single-database private information retrieval with
constant communication rate. In Caires et al. [22], pages 803–815.
39. T. Gerbet, A. Kumar, and C. Lauradoux. A privacy analysis of google and yan-
dex safe browsing. In 2016 46th Annual IEEE/IFIP International Conference on
Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN) , pages 347–358, 2016.
40. N. Gilboa and Y. Ishai. Distributed point functions and their applications. In
P. Q. Nguyen and E. Oswald, editors, EUROCRYPT 2014, volume 8441 of LNCS,
pages 640–658. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2014.
41. I. Goldberg. Improving the robustness of private information retrieval. In 2007
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy , pages 131–148. IEEE Computer Society
Press, May 2007.
42. O. Goldreich. Towards a theory of software protection and simulation by oblivious
RAMs. In A. Aho, editor, 19th ACM STOC , pages 182–194. ACM Press, May
1987.
43. O. Goldreich and R. Ostrovsky. Software protection and simulation on oblivious
rams. J. ACM, 43(3):431–473, 1996.
44. Google. SafeBrowsing API, 2008. URL: https://safebrowsing.google.com/.
Accessed Jan. 25, 2022.
31

45. M. Green, W. Ladd, and I. Miers. A protocol for privately reporting ad impressions
at scale. In Weippl et al. [73], pages 1591–1601.
46. T. G ¨uneysu, V. Lyubashevsky, and T. P ¨oppelmann. Practical lattice-based cryp-
tography: A signature scheme for embedded systems. In E. Prouﬀ and P. Schau-
mont, editors, CHES 2012 , volume 7428 of LNCS, pages 530–547. Springer, Hei-
delberg, Sept. 2012.
47. T. Gupta, N. Crooks, W. Mulhern, S. Setty, L. Alvisi, and M. Walﬁsh. Scalable and
private media consumption with popcorn. In Proceedings of the 13th Usenix Con-
ference on Networked Systems Design and Implementation , NSDI’16, page 91–107,
USA, 2016. USENIX Association.
48. A. Hamlin, R. Ostrovsky, M. Weiss, and D. Wichs. Private anonymous data access.
In Y. Ishai and V. Rijmen, editors, EUROCRYPT 2019, Part II , volume 11477 of
LNCS, pages 244–273. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2019.
49. R. Henry. Polynomial batch codes for eﬃcient IT-PIR. PoPETs, 2016(4):202–218,
Oct. 2016.
50. A. Henzinger, M. M. Hong, H. Corrigan-Gibbs, S. Meiklejohn, and V. Vaikun-
tanathan. One server for the price of two: Simple and fast single-server pri-
vate information retrieval. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/949, 2022.
https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/949.
51. A. H ¨ulsing, J. Rijneveld, J. M. Schanck, and P. Schwabe. High-speed key encap-
sulation from NTRU. In W. Fischer and N. Homma, editors, CHES 2017 , volume
10529 of LNCS, pages 232–252. Springer, Heidelberg, Sept. 2017.
52. Y. Ishai, E. Kushilevitz, R. Ostrovsky, and A. Sahai. Batch codes and their appli-
cations. In L. Babai, editor, 36th ACM STOC , pages 262–271. ACM Press, June
2004.
53. Y. Kalai and L. Reyzin, editors. TCC 2017, Part II , volume 10678 of LNCS.
Springer, Heidelberg, Nov. 2017.
54. D. Kogan and H. Corrigan-Gibbs. Private blocklist lookups with checklist. In 30th
USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 21) , pages 875–892. USENIX
Association, Aug. 2021.
55. E. Kushilevitz and R. Ostrovsky. Replication is NOT needed: SINGLE database,
computationally-private information retrieval. In38th FOCS, pages 364–373. IEEE
Computer Society Press, Oct. 1997.
56. H. Lipmaa. An oblivious transfer protocol with log-squared communication. In
J. Zhou, J. Lopez, R. H. Deng, and F. Bao, editors, ISC 2005 , volume 3650 of
LNCS, pages 314–328. Springer, Heidelberg, Sept. 2005.
57. W. Lueks and I. Goldberg. Sublinear scaling for multi-client private information
retrieval. In R. B ¨ohme and T. Okamoto, editors, FC 2015, volume 8975 of LNCS,
pages 168–186. Springer, Heidelberg, Jan. 2015.
58. Y. Ma, K. Zhong, T. Rabin, and S. Angel. Incremental oﬄine/online PIR (extended
version). IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. , page 1438, 2021.
59. S. J. Menon and D. J. Wu. SPIRAL: fast, high-rate single-server PIR via FHE
composition. In 43rd IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, SP 2022, San
Francisco, CA, USA, May 22-26, 2022 , pages 930–947. IEEE, 2022.
60. D. Micciancio and C. Peikert. Trapdoors for lattices: Simpler, tighter, faster,
smaller. In D. Pointcheval and T. Johansson, editors, EUROCRYPT 2012, vol-
ume 7237 of LNCS, pages 700–718. Springer, Heidelberg, Apr. 2012.
61. P. Mittal, F. G. Olumoﬁn, C. Troncoso, N. Borisov, and I. Goldberg. PIR-tor: Scal-
able anonymous communication using private information retrieval. In USENIX
Security 2011. USENIX Association, Aug. 2011.
32

62. M. H. Mughees, H. Chen, and L. Ren. Onionpir: Response eﬃcient single-server pir.
In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communi-
cations Security, CCS ’21, page 2292–2306, New York, NY, USA, 2021. Association
for Computing Machinery.
63. M. H. Mughees, G. Pestana, A. Davidson, and B. Livshits. Privatefetch: Scalable
catalog delivery in privacy-preserving advertising. CoRR, abs/2109.08189, 2021.
64. J. Park and M. Tibouchi. SHECS-PIR: Somewhat homomorphic encryption-based
compact and scalable private information retrieval. In L. Chen, N. Li, K. Liang,
and S. A. Schneider, editors, ESORICS 2020, Part II , volume 12309 of LNCS,
pages 86–106. Springer, Heidelberg, Sept. 2020.
65. S. Patel, G. Persiano, and K. Yeo. Private stateful information retrieval. In D. Lie,
M. Mannan, M. Backes, and X. Wang, editors, ACM CCS 2018 , pages 1002–1019.
ACM Press, Oct. 2018.
66. O. Regev. On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryptography.
In H. N. Gabow and R. Fagin, editors, 37th ACM STOC , pages 84–93. ACM Press,
May 2005.
67. L. Ren, C. W. Fletcher, A. Kwon, E. Stefanov, E. Shi, M. van Dijk, and S. De-
vadas. Constants count: Practical improvements to oblivious RAM. In J. Jung
and T. Holz, editors, USENIX Security 2015 , pages 415–430. USENIX Associa-
tion, Aug. 2015.
68. S. Servan-Schreiber, K. Hogan, and S. Devadas. Adveil: A private targeted-
advertising ecosystem. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/1032, 2021.https:
//ia.cr/2021/1032.
69. R. Sion and B. Carbunar. On the practicality of private information retrieval. In
NDSS 2007 . The Internet Society, Feb. / Mar. 2007.
70. E. Stefanov, M. van Dijk, E. Shi, T. H. Chan, C. W. Fletcher, L. Ren, X. Yu, and
S. Devadas. Path ORAM: an extremely simple oblivious RAM protocol. J. ACM,
65(4):18:1–18:26, 2018.
71. V. Strassen. Gaussian elimination is not optimal. Numer. Math. , 13(4):354–356,
aug 1969.
72. S. Wehner and R. Wolf. Improved lower bounds for locally decodable codes and
private information retrieval. In Caires et al. [22], pages 1424–1436.
73. E. R. Weippl, S. Katzenbeisser, C. Kruegel, A. C. Myers, and S. Halevi, editors.
ACM CCS 2016 . ACM Press, Oct. 2016.
74. V. V. Williams. Multiplying matrices faster than coppersmith-winograd. In H. J.
Karloﬀ and T. Pitassi, editors, 44th ACM STOC , pages 887–898. ACM Press, May
2012.
75. S. Yekhanin. Towards 3-query locally decodable codes of subexponential length.
J. ACM, 55(1):1:1–1:16, 2008.
A Proofs from Section 4
A.1 Proof of Theorem 2
Let~b← b + fi, where i is the requested index of DB by the client. As laid out
in Section 4.4, we must show that Equation (6) holds, with all but negligible
probability. Firstly, note that since e← (χ)m, then by Corollary 2, we have
that‖e· D‖∞≤ 4ρ√m with high probability. This follows because the number
33

of samples m is very large and by assuming that each entry in D is equal to
ρ =‖D‖∞. Consequently:
⌊(e + fi)T· D⌉ρ =⌊ρ/q· (eT· D + fi
T· D)⌉
=⌊ρ/q· (eT· D) + D[i]⌉
=⌊y + D[i]⌉,
(9)
where y = ρ/q· (eT· D) and D[i]∈ Zω
q is the ith row of D (interpreted as a
column vector). Therefore, ‖y‖∞ < 4ρ2√m/q = 1/2 by the statement of the
theorem and, as a consequence:
⌊(e + fi)T· D⌉ρ = D[i], (10)
which is the correct output of the protocol. ⊓ ⊔
A.2 Proof of Theorem 3
Let ip← FPIR.ssetup(1λ), pp← FPIR.spreproc(DB), st← FPIR.cpreproc(pp), let
i0,i 1←A (ip, pp), let b←${0, 1}, and let ~bb← FPIR.query(st,ib). In particular,
we have that ~bb = sT· A + eT + fib
T∈ Zm
q , for A∈ st, s← (χ)n, e← (χ)m,
A ← PRG(µ,n,m,q ), and fib the m-dimensional vector of all zeroes except
where fib[ib] = q/ρ. Clearly, we can show that FPIR is secure if we can show
that the output of FPIR.query is distributed uniformly.
Firstly, note that A is sampled as the output of a pseudorandom generator,
therefore, it is indistinguishable from A←$ Zn×m
q . Let A be an adversary in
the L WEq,n,m,χ decisional security game (Deﬁnition 1), receiving ( A, u) as the
challenge, and let S be an adversary in the PIR 1-query indistinguishability
game (Deﬁnition 4). When A receives the sample in Equation (1), b and~b are
distributed identically, and when it receives the sample in Equation (2), then
b←$ Zm
q . Therefore, the adversaryA can simulate the client query toS by simply
sending~b = u + fib forb←${0, 1}. WhenS returns their guess b′∈{ 0, 1} toA,
A checks if b′ ?
=b.
Clearly, whatever advantage ϵ thatS has in guessing the correct value of
b, immediately translates to A having advantageϵ in the decisional L WEq,n,m,χ
security game. Since we assume that L WEq,n,m,χ is diﬃcult to solve, we therefore
conclude that ϵ≤ negl(λ).
To conclude, in the case that b is sampled uniformly, then the adversary has
no advantage in distinguishing since ~b is distributed uniformly. ⊓ ⊔
34

A.3 Proof of Corollary 3
We can construct a matrix ~B from each query ~bj (j∈ [𝓁]) thatS observes with
the following structure:
~B =
[
~b1
‖‖‖···
‖‖‖~b𝓁
]
=
[
(s1
T· A + e1
T )
T
+ fi1
‖‖‖···
‖‖‖ (s𝓁
T· A + e𝓁
T )
T
+ fi𝓁
]
= ([s1‖···‖ s𝓁]T· A + [e1‖···‖ e𝓁]T )
T
+ [fi1‖···‖ fi𝓁]
= S· A + E + F∈ Z𝓁×m
q .
(11)
Using the same proof strategy as in Theorem 3, we can use A as an adversary
attempting to decide in the decisional MatL WEq,n,m,χ,𝓁 security game (Deﬁni-
tion 2). This illustrates that A has advantage equal to that which S has in de-
ciding the uniformity of ~B. Furthermore, by Corollary 1, we know that ϵ =𝓁·ν,
whereν is the max advantage of winning in L WEq,n,m,χ. Since 𝓁 = poly(λ), then
ϵ = poly(λ)· negl(λ) = negl(λ). ⊓ ⊔
B SafeBrowsing Example
Major browsers such as Google Chrome, Firefox, and Brave integrate a security
service run by Google and known as the SafeBrowsing API [44]. SafeBrowsing
allows browsers to verify if online resources and webpages that the user requests
are “safe”. If a resource has been ﬂagged as “unsafe”, the user is warned by the
browser and asked to explicitly consent visiting the website that contains the un-
safe resource. The SafeBrowsing service relies on a list of blocked resources main-
tained by Google, and it exposes an API that informs the browser if a resource
is part of the blocked list. The downside of serving queries to the SafeBrowsing
API remotely is that clients would eﬀectively reveal their browsing patterns to
Google. It is clear that it will be important to build mechanisms that preserve
client privacy from third parties (like Google, in this case), while still being able
to inform users if they are about to load malicious content.
B.1 Current SafeBrowsing Implementation
Local storage. In order to avoid calling the remote API for every resource, the
entire SafeBrowsing blocklist could be shipped with each browser, but storing the
full blocklist (> 90MB) may be beyond some clients. Consequently, every browser
instead stores a compressed and probabilistic data structure that contains an
approximate view of the SafeBrowsing blocklist. This local data structure allows
performing probabilistic checks of inclusion, with non-negligible chances of false-
positives occurring and no chance of false-negatives. Due to the rate of potential
false positives , if an inclusion check returns positive (i.e. an unsafe resource),
the browser remains uncertain. To remove the uncertainty, the browser conﬁrms
35

if the resource is unsafe by calling the remote SafeBrowsing API. Thus, the
browser only relies on the remote API call to SafeBrowsing services when the set
inclusion against the local data structure returns a potential false positive. This
mechanism reduces considerably the number of remote API calls at the expense
of storing a compressed, space optimized data structure locally in the browser.
The local blocklist is a set of 32-bit hashes of the resource URI, and the
full SafeBrowsing blocklist consists of a key-value database mapping a 32-bit
hash to a SHA256 hash of a blocked resource URI. The local blocklist results in
storage and bandwidth that is 8× smaller then the full SafeBrowsing blocklist.
We summarize the two distinct phases of SafeBrowsing checks in the following.
1. (Phase 1: Local check) First, the browser computes the 32-bit hash of the
resource URI that has been requested, and checks if the 32-bit hash is part
of the local storage. If the set inclusion operation returns ‘false’ (i.e. the hash
of the resource does not exists in the local data structure), then the browser
considers the resource safe and proceeds. If the set inclusion operation returns
‘true’ (i.e. the 32-bit resource hash is part of the local block list), the client
proceeds to the next phase.
2. (Phase 2: Remote check) When Phase 1 identiﬁes a possibly unsafe resource,
the browser needs to conﬁrm whether the resource is a false positive or
not. To do so, it requests the full SHA256 hash of the resource’s URI by
querying the remote SafeBrowsing API for the 32-bit hash of the resource
URI computed in Phase 1. If the full SHA256 hash returned by the remote
SafeBrowsing API matches with the SHA256 of the resource URI, then the
resource is part of the SafeBrowsing blocklist, and the browser considers the
resource unsafe.
Privacy considerations. The remote SafeBrowsing resource check (Phase 2) re-
quires the browser to explicitly include the 32-bit hash identifying the resource
that is being checked for inclusion on the SafeBrowsing blocklist. As noted by
[14, 39], this request leaks information about the browsing history of the user,
as the SafeBrowsing API service is able to learn which content a particular user
is interested in. Over time, this information can be used by the SafeBrowsing
service provider to construct a behavior proﬁling of web users without their
consent.
B.2 SafeBrowsing via FrodoPIR
FrodoPIR can be used to implement the remote SafeBrowsing API service, such
that no leakage occurs during the remote SafeBrowsing API check. The intuition
is that, once the index that must be queried is known to the client, the remote
check can be performed via a PIR query to a remote FrodoPIR database, that
stores all the SHA256 hashes of the unsafe URIs. Given the privacy guarantees
of FrodoPIR, the client does not leak which resource ID is being queried.
36

Requirements. Based on the estimates provided by [54], the current SafeBrowsing
blocklist contains about 3 million entries. The blocklist grows at a rate of 30, 000
new entries per week. Each of the values in the database consists of a SHA256
hash of the content URI.
Mapping URL hashes to query indices. As in [54], we will assume that local
blocklist is augmented to include the index that must be queried in the online
database. That is, when the client ﬁnds a match in their local blocklist, they use
the corresponding index i that is included to make a query for element i in the
remote server database.
Database conﬁguration. As shown in Section 5, FrodoPIR provides a high degree
of ﬂexibility, allowing developers to choose which trade-oﬀs to make when de-
ploying an instance of the PIR database. We now suggest the following database
conﬁguration to implement FrodoPIR for SafeBrowsing:
– We choose q = 232 and n = 1774, which should be satisfactory for even the
large number of clients using major Internet browsers that integrate with
the SafeBrowsing API. According to [2], this provides 128-bit security for
252 client queries. In other words, this allows 4 billion clients to each make
1 million queries, which should be more than enough.
– We requirew = 256 bits for storing each URI hash in the server database.
– Let ~m be the total number of elements in the SafeBrowsing database. We
require that~m≥ 221 to accommodate all the 3 million entries and subsequent
updates [54]. However, we leverage sharding to break down the databases into
smaller sub-databases, as explained in Section 5.4. Assuming that FrodoPIR
is running on a machine with 16 cores, we can split the blocklist into s =
16 sub-databases, resulting in setting m = 2 18 per shard. This provides a
database with total size 2 22, which is enough to store the entire blocklist.
– Given w, m and q, we set ρ = 2 10 so that the correctness guarantee from
Theorem 2 holds true.
– We calculateω =m/ log(ρ) = 26 as described in Section 5.
– The local blocklist that each client must download contains 32· (m + 1) bits
to include each 32-bit hash preﬁx plus the corresponding 32-bit index.
We leverage sharding in two diﬀerent ways. On one hand, to decrease the
size of the database by splitting it into sub-databases, allowing us to reduce the
size m of each sub-database, and to optimize both user and server performance
and bandwidth. In addition, sharding is used to implement a low-cost database
update mechanism. Updates to the blocklist happen by adding elements to one
sub-database only, in turn requiring clients to derive new parameters only for
a single shard at every update, as explained in Section 5.4. This is possible in
SafeBrowsing because DB updates are typically only additions, and thus deletion
of old content in previous shards is rarely required [54].
37

Table 8. Performance analysis of the FrodoPIR scheme when communicating with a
single database shard, using the parameters deﬁned in Section B.2.
Oﬄine
Client download (KB) 180
Database preprocessing (s) 28.555
Client derive params (s) 2.2281
Client query preprocessing (s) 0.573
Online
Client query (KB) 1024
Server response (KB) 0.1
Client query (ms) 0.097
Server response (ms) 5.223
Client output (ms) 0.012
B.3 Implementation and Raw Costs
We set up the experimental environment, and report results in Table 8, corre-
sponding to the raw costs of using the FrodoPIR scheme on the aforementioned
parameters. We run all experiments as single-threaded processes on the same
Amazon t2.2xlarge EC2 instance, with 8 CPU cores and 32GB of RAM, as
was used in Section 6.
B.4 Performance Analysis
From Table 8, we estimate the performance of instantiating the SafeBrowsing
API for a single database shard using FrodoPIR, using the parameter set deﬁned
in Section B.2. Our extrapolations are based on the following set of usage model
assumptions that are taken from the previous work of Kogan and Corrigan-
Gibbs [54] on exploring usage of PIR for satisfying the demands of SafeBrowsing.
– On average, clients launch a query every 44 minutes. Assuming 12 hours of
daily usage, this leads to approximately 16 queries per day.
– On average, the server database is updated every 94 minutes. This leads to
around 16 DB updates per day, with a weekly addition of around 30 , 000
records.
– The server is a collection of Z replicas that are distributed globally, that
each independently possess and process queries on the same database. Any
client query can be fulﬁlled by a single server.
– Client storage must be, at least, a constant factor smaller than the entire
SafeBrowsing database size.
Database initialization and updates. The main server initializes the sub-database,
public parameters, and local blocklist for each individual shard. Each of these
remain static for a monthly period and are downloaded by each server replica.
When the main server initializes, or rotates the matrix A, it posts the public
parameters pp = (µ,M ={Mi = A· Di}i∈[16]) and local blocklists to a public
38

location that clients can access and download from. Note that Mi ∈ Zm×ω
q
corresponds to the public parameters made available for each sub-database.
Based on our usage model, we will assume that there are 16 database updates
made by the server, each containing 268 records. We assume that clients each
download and process 8 updates per day. Each database update touches a single
shard DBi, and results in uploading a new value of Mi.
Client processing. Client preprocessing amounts to preprocessing 16 queries per
day, using the server provided parameters pp. After every update, the client
needs to regenerate the remaining preprocessed state that is associated with the
sub-database that was updated. Recall that the client stores:
X = (bj = sT· A + eT,Cj ={ci = sj
T· Mi}i∈[16])j∈[16]
for each of the j∈ [16] queries that the client will launch, and for each of the
i∈ [16] database shards. The client must also store each sj that it samples, for
responding to server updates as well as the local blocklist.
Overall, at the start of each day, the client rederives A← PRG(µ,n,m,q ),
and computes the set X. Every time that the client makes a remote query it
removes a pair ( bj,Cj) from storage, and sends ~bj = b + fι to the server, for
query index ι computed during the local blocklist check. Whenever the server
issues a database update for shard i, the client redownloads Mi and the local
blocklist, and uses sj to update ci = sjT· Mi∈ Cj, for each remaining j (i.e.
unused preprocessed query data). According to Table 8, we have the following
(per-day) client computational costs.
– A single derivation of A.
– preprocessing of 16 queries for each of the 16 shards.
– Updating of 2∑7
a=1a = 56 queries per day.
– 16 individual online queries.
We ignore the cost of running queries on the 32-bit hashes in the local blocklist,
since these are negligible by comparison. Furthermore, the per shard cost of
updating preprocessed query data is almost zero. Therefore, we calculate the
total CPU costs of each client to amount to 32.96+16·0.47+16∗0.00025 = 40.48
seconds per day.
Client download. The initial client download of public parameters is equal to
128 + 16· (nω log(q)) = 23, 615, 616 bits, which corresponds to around 2 .82MB.
The total size of the local blocklist is approximately 32 · 3million bits, which is
equal to 11.44MB. The running download cost per-day is calculated as 16ω log(q)+
8nω log(q)) + 32∗ 268 = 11, 829, 632 bits, which is roughly 1.41MB.
Client query. The client query is linear in the size of a single shard, which has a
maximum of 2 18 elements. Therefore, each query is around 1MB in size, based
on the costs from Table 6. As a consequence, this results in roughly 16MB of
additional communication per-day.
39

Table 9. Comparison of instantiating the SafeBrowsing API using either FrodoPIR, or
via the two-server PIR schemes of [54]. Estimated costs are marked with asterisks.
Performance indicators Non-private dpfPIR ooPIR FrodoPIR
Servers per 1B users 143 9047 1348 9778 ∗
Latency (ms) 90 122 91 90 ∗
Client init (sec) 3 .1 2 .6 13 .3 32 .96∗
Client running (sec/month) 0 .5 0 .8 8 .0 1272 .0∗
Initial communication (MB) 5 .0 5 .0 10 .3 2 .82
Online communication (MB/month) 3 .0 3 .6 9 .0 539 .7
Max storage (MB) 4 .5 4 .5 26 .1 30 .69∗
Client storage. The client needs ∼ 1MB to store each preprocessed query, and
each secret vector sj, for j ∈ [16]. In total, this represents about 16MB of
required storage. Secondly, the client must store the local preﬁx table for the
SafeBrowsing API which amounts to storing a further 11.44MB of data. Thirdly,
the client stores the public parameters made available by the server, which totals
2.82MB. Overall, the maximum client storage overhead is ∼ 30.69MB, which is
a 91.55/30.26 = 3.0× saving compared with storing the original database. As
the client makes queries, it deletes used preprocessed data, and so this storage
overhead will decrease as the day progresses.
Server processing. The non-private SafeBrowsing API has an average latency
of around 90ms per client query [54]. This is achieved using Z = 143 servers
answering client queries. Note that a single FrodoPIR server can answer a single
client query in ∼ 5ms (Table 8). We assume that 1 billion queries are received
uniformly in 90ms windows over a 44 minute period. 18 Therefore, in each 90ms
window around 29334 client queries are received. Further, we assume that each
server can answer 3 client queries in 90ms (including time taken to receive and
respond to the client HTTP request). To achieve this, we would need at least
9778 individual servers each answering queries on the same FrodoPIR database
for servicing 1 billion clients. Clearly, this is much more expensive than running
the non-private version of SafeBrowsing, but such a number of servers is still
within the realms of practicality, whilst preserving client privacy.
Comparison with [54]. The work of Kogan and Corrigan-Gibbs presents two
PIR-based constructions for running the SafeBrowsing API, one based on PIR
from distributed point functions (dpfPIR), and the other based on oﬄine-online
PIR (ooPIR). Both schemes require two non-colluding servers. We compare the
performance of running the SafeBrowsing API using FrodoPIR against both dpf-
PIR and ooPIR in Table 9.
Clearly, FrodoPIR involves heavier usage costs compared to all known solu-
tions, either non-private or using multi-server PIR. As previously highlighted,
a limitation of the FrodoPIR scheme is the client request size, which makes up
18 In other words, simulating 1 query from every client every 44 minutes.
40

Table 10. Comparison of FrodoPIR overheads when choosing less conservative security
parameterizations.
Number of DB items (log(m)) 16 20
Lattice dimension (n) 1288 1572 1774 1288 1572 1774
Client download (KB) 4125.6 5035.3 5682.5 4583.5 5594.1 6313.1
Database preprocessing (s) 82.705 96.74 104.57 1439.2 1697.5 1895.2
Client derive params (s) 0.47 0.5506 0.5826 7.22 8.79 9.25
Client query preprocessing (s) 0.135 0.147 0.147 1.933 2.149 2.343
a large proportion of the total communication (496MB per month, as opposed
to 43.7MB of download). The client computation is also much heavier than in
multi-server PIR, due to the requirement for computing high-dimensional cryp-
tographic operations when preprocessing queries.
Otherwise, our estimates suggest that FrodoPIR can provide adequate perfor-
mance for operators where non-colluding PIR servers are impossible to set up.
However, it is worth noting that the experimental analysis of [54] provides sig-
niﬁcantly more detail than we do here. Our goal is to give a broad understanding
of the increased overheads of using FrodoPIR.
C Less Conservative LWE Parameters
Our security analysis assumes that theλ-bit security of the Matrix LWE problem
(MatL WEq,n,m,χ,𝓁) is calculated as the ν-bit security of the underlying LWE
problem, minus the logarithm of the number of queries that are launched ( 𝓁).
This analysis is conservative for two reasons: (1) the number of queries that we
protect against with our parameter choice (2 52) is very large; and (2) it’s not
clear that lattice cryptanalysis can exploit the Matrix LWE problem any easier
than LWE. Therefore, choosing lattice parameters that are smaller may preserve
adequate security, while improving eﬃciency.
Here, we discuss the impact on eﬃciency of reducing the LWE dimension, n.
In particular, Section 5, we chose n = 1774. If we choose n = 1572, then this
provides 128-bit security against 1 billion queries, using the same cost model
for estimating the hardness of Matrix LWE. However, if we simply focus on
achieving 128-bit security for the underlying Ternary LWE instance, then we
can choose n = 1228 instead.19
In Table 10, we highlight how costs change as the lattice dimension reduces
(for databases of size 216 and 220), when compared with the original performance
forn = 1774 from Section 6. The online phase is largely unaﬀected by the lattice
dimension, so we omit measurements for such functions.
19 See Appendix D for the lattice estimation outputs that we use for calculating these
dimensions.
41

Overall, we see that bandwidth reduces signiﬁcantly — by over 11% for
n = 1572, and 27% for n = 1288 — which will translate into notable ﬁnan-
cial savings when servicing queries from large numbers of clients. Furthermore,
client storage requirements can be reduced by the same amount. Computational
workloads are also reduced but less signiﬁcantly, particularly because the server
preprocessing is amortized across all clients anyway. However, client derivation of
A sees an approximate 20% reduction, which may be notable when considering
low-powered clients.
D Lattice Estimation
For calculating the security estimates of LWE parameters, we used the lattice
estimator of [2]. Speciﬁcally, we used the code available athttps://github.com/
malb/lattice-estimator, from commit: f9dc7c625d93b9c645c56bf9dfd3d4ec202f17d1.
The security estimations were obtained using the following code and correspond-
ing output.20
1 from estimator import *;
2
3 # n is the lattice dimension that is used
4 for n in [1288 , 1572 , 1774]:
5 LWE . p r i m a l _ u s v p (
6 LWE . P a r a me t e r s (
7 n =n ,
8 q =2**32 ,
9 Xs = ND . Uniform ( -1 ,1) ,
10 Xe = ND . Uniform ( -1 ,1) ,
11 m = infinity
12 )
13 )
1 rop : 2^128.2 , red : 2^128.2 , delta : 1.004425 , beta : 343 , d :
2447 , tag : usvp
2 rop : 2^158.1 , red : 2^158.1 , delta : 1.003668 , beta : 450 , d :
2972 , tag : usvp
3 rop : 2^180.0 , red : 2^180.0 , delta : 1.003274 , beta : 528 , d :
3376 , tag : usvp
20 The output is modiﬁed slightly to omit non-utf8 characters.
42