Beware: NAT Traversal is a Simple and Efﬁcient Approach to
Open Firewall Holes∗
Cuidado: Travessia de NAT é uma Abordagem Simples e Eﬁciente Para Abrir Buracos em
Firewall
Elias P. Duarte Jr.1
Kleber V . Cardoso2
Micael O. M. C. de Mello3
João G. G. Borges4
Resumo
As técnicas de travessia de NAT permitem que processos com endereços IP privados não
roteáveis se comuniquem com outros processos fora dos limites de segurança da rede. Téc-
nicas como UDP Hole Punching foram padronizadas pelo IETF e, usando túneis baseados
nessas técnicas, é fácil permitir que processos de aplicativos em cima de qualquer protocolo
de transporte, incluindo TCP, iniciem e recebam pacotes da Internet através de dispositi-
vos NAT. No entanto, como efeito colateral, essas técnicas também passam livremente por
ﬁrewalls. Neste trabalho, descrevemos como é possível conﬁgurar qualquer servidor ro-
dando em qualquer porta (sem nenhuma conﬁguração especial de ﬁrewall) para estabelecer
conexões iniciadas em clientes de Internet arbitrários, tornando serviços não autorizados
facilmente disponíveis. Mostramos também que o processo é leve, principalmente depois
de concluída a conﬁguração inicial, suportando virtualmente qualquer tipo de aplicativo
não autorizado.
Palavras-chave: Tradução de endereço da rede. Travessia de NAT. Perfuração (de
ﬁrewall). Travessia de ﬁrewall. Transparência de rede. Falhas de segurança.
∗submetido em 05/03/2019 e aceito em 07/08/2020.
1Professor do Departamento de Informática (DInf) da Universidade Federal do Paraná (UFPR), Brasil–
elias@inf.ufpr.br
2Professor do Instituto de Informática (INF) da Universidade Federal de Goiás (UFG), Brasil– kleber@inf.ufg.br
3Mestre pelo Instituto de Informática (INF) da Universidade Federal de Goiás (UFG), Brasil– micael-
mello@gmail.com
4Mestre pelo Departamento de Informática (DInf) da Universidade Federal do Paraná (UFPR), Brasil– bor-
gesjg@gmail.com

Beware: NAT Traversal is a Simple and Efﬁcient Approach to Open Firewall Holes
Abstract
NAT traversal techniques allow processes with private, non-routable IP addresses to com-
municate with other processes outside the network secured limits. Techniques such as UDP
Hole Punching have been standardized by the IETF, and using tunnels based on those tech-
niques it is easy to allow application processes on top of any transport protocol, including
TCP, to both start and receive packets from the Internet across NAT devices. However, as a
side effect those techniques also freely proceed through ﬁrewalls. In this work we describe
how it is possible to conﬁgure any server running on any port (no ﬁrewall conﬁguration re-
quired) to establish connections initiated at arbitrary Internet clients, making unauthorized
services easily available. We also show that the process is lightweight, in particular after the
initial setup is concluded, thus virtually supporting any type of unauthorized applications.
Keywords: Network address translation. NAT traversal. Hole punching. Firewall traver-
sal. Network transparency. Security holes.
Abakos, Belo Horizonte, v. 8, n. 2, p. 29-41, novembro 2020 – ISSN: 2316-9451. 30

Beware: NAT Traversal is a Simple and Efﬁcient Approach to Open Firewall Holes
1 INTRODUCTION
Transparency and end-to-end connectivity are two of the basic design principles of the
original Internet (GARRETT et al., 2018; SALTZER et al., 1984). Informally, these concepts
refer to the ability to communicate from any host to any other host in the network. The current
Internet employs multiple techniques – including NAT (Network Address Translation) and –
that have a direct impact on Internet transparency. According to Carpenter (CARPENTER,
2000) “the loss of transparency in the Internet is both a bug and a feature from the security
viewpoint”. Although these techniques are meant ensure security, in this work we show that
they can be actually cause security breaches.
NAT traversal techniques (HUITEMA, 2006; HO et al., 2011; TSENG et al., 2013) were
ﬁrst developed due to the fact that several protocols, such as SIP (Session Initiation Protocol),
are simply not able to traverse NAT devices. Those techniques are also required by multiple
P2P applications as well as V oIP and videoconferencing which involve the communication of
processes running on hosts at different administrative domains that are nearly always protected
by NAT/ﬁrewall. Processes with private, non-routable IP addresses can use NAT traversal to
freely communicate with other processes outside the network secured limits. Recently NAT
traversal techniques have been developed in the context of the Internet of Things, to allow
access to mobile devices (SRIRAMA; LIY ANAGE, 2014) and also distribute software updates
(HERRY et al., 2018). NAT traversal has also been applied in cloud computing (HSU et al.,
2018), to allow clients and servers to remain connected even after migrations.
NAT traversal services are widely available, e.g. (PANASONIC, 2013; PRO, 2013;
WEBRTC, 2013). NAT traversal techniques for UDP ﬂows have been standardized by the
IETF, including ICE (Interactive Connectivity Establishment) (ROSENBERG, 2010). ICE is
based on STUN (Session Traversal Utilities for NAT) (ROSENBERG et al., 2008) and its ex-
tension TURN (Traversal Using Relay NAT) (MAHY et al., 2010). STUN implements UDP
hole punching (SRISURESH et al., 2008) which allows UDP packets to ﬂow between hosts
behind NAT. Both (FORD et al., 2005) and (MÜLLER et al., 2013) conﬁrm that most networks
connected to the Internet feature NAT devices that support UDP hole punching.
In this work we discuss the fact that, as a side effect, the communication with NAT
traversal techniques causes security breaches by freely opening holes on ﬁrewalls. Stateful ﬁre-
walls employ the same principle as NAT for allowing packet ﬂows, i.e. as the ﬁrewall processes
the ﬁrst packet of a given ﬂow originated from an internal host it creates state information that
allows the destination host to send back packets to the source host in the protected network. By
using NAT traversal any internal host can independently open holes on any port without any
ﬁrewall conﬁguration to provide unauthorized services that can be accessed from the rest of the
Internet.
We describe a simple NAT traversal approach to allow application processes using any
transport protocol to communicate seamlessly accross NAT devices and ﬁrewalls using IP-over-
UDP tunnels. Note that using this technique it is possible to conﬁgure any server running on any
Abakos, Belo Horizonte, v. 8, n. 2, p. 29-41, novembro 2020 – ISSN: 2316-9451. 31

Beware: NAT Traversal is a Simple and Efﬁcient Approach to Open Firewall Holes
port to establish connections initiated at arbitrary Internet clients. The system creates a virtual
IPv6 tunneling interface at each participant host. As an application process sends a packet
using the local virtual interface, the packet is encapsulated in a UDP datagram and sent to the
destination using UDP hole punching. The destination then receives and injects the packet on
the local virtual interface so that it is processed by the transport protocol as if it had come from a
physical interface. We report experimental results that show that this approach is very efﬁcient,
in particular after tunnel setup is completed. As the overhead is very low, it can be employed
by any type of application.
In the next section we ﬁrst give a brief overview of NAT and ﬁrewalls and describe NAT
traversal techniques. Next, in Section 3 NAT traversal strategy that allows communications
with any transport protocol is presented. Experimental evaluation results are given in Section 4.
Finally Section 5 is the conclusion.
2 NA T & FIREW ALL TRA VERSAL
A NAT (Network Address Translation) device (SRISURESH; EGEV ANG, 2001) con-
nects two networks by translating IP addresses and TCP/UDP ports as they are forwarded. By
using NAT, a set of hosts with private addresses can communicate on the Internet using a single
public address. Figure 1 shows a client on a private network sending a UDP packet to a UDP
server on the Internet. The client creates the packet unaware that the IP address is non-routable;
the NAT device between the private network and the Internet makes the required address and
port translations before the packet is forwarded. When the ﬁrst packet is sent by the client, it
is captured by the NAT device, which creates a local NAT session with enough information to
execute the following steps for every packet sent to/from the pair of nodes: (1) translate and
map the source private IP address of the packet to the public NAT IP address; (2) translate and
map the UDP source port to an external port N which is used in the identiﬁcation of the NAT
session.
Figure 1 – A UDP session is established between a client behind NA T and a server
Source: Elaborated by authors.
When the server sends back a response to the client, the NAT device performs the reverse
mapping and translation using the local NAT session information, i.e. it (1) reverses the public
address to the private IP address of the client, (2) reverses the port back to the original one. Each
process communicating through the NAT device has an associated endpoint (EP) consisting of
Abakos, Belo Horizonte, v. 8, n. 2, p. 29-41, novembro 2020 – ISSN: 2316-9451. 32

Beware: NAT Traversal is a Simple and Efﬁcient Approach to Open Firewall Holes
the pair⟨IP address, port⟩. The UDP session initiated by client A in Figure 1 has three EPs: the
private EP used by the client; the public EP mapped by the NAT for the UDP session; and the
public EP at the server. The sessions at the NAT device are dynamically maintained at a NAT
session table. A session is removed from the table when no packet of that session has been seen
by the NAT device for a predeﬁned timeout interval. A NAT device only forwards a packet from
the Internet to the private network if there is a NAT session that matches the packet information
already conﬁgured at the session table. Thus NAT also acts as a stateful packet ﬁlter, in the
sense that it prevents or allows packets to enter the private network.
Firewalls (FREED, 2000; BODEI et al., 2018) are ﬁlters that inspect all trafﬁc passing
between two networks. A ﬁrewall is often placed at the gateway of a private network to the
Internet. A ﬁrewall can block or allow packets to pass according to a set of rules. Stateful
ﬁrewalls maintain information about the network and transport layers, some also about the
activities of the application layer. Using a stateful ﬁrewall a packet originated at an external
host in the Internet can enter the private network only if previously a packet was sent from the
private network to the external host.
NAT traversal strategies can be roughly classiﬁed in two types: solutions that employ re-
lay servers and those that employ the connection reversal technique. The second type is the most
popular and efﬁcient and it is the basis of the technique which we describe in this work. The
ﬁrst type employs a relay server that is not restricted by NAT nor ﬁrewall. Hosts behind NAT/-
ﬁrewall establish communication with the relay server, which acts as a communication relay.
The IETF has proposed a standard to traverse NAT using a relay server, TURN (MAHY et al.,
2010). Despite its reliability, solutions that involve relays do have disadvantages (SRISURESH
et al., 2008). In particular, the relay server is the least efﬁcient approach for providing commu-
nication between hosts behind NAT/ﬁrewall. This approach depends on both the relay server
processing resources and network bandwidth. Furthermore, even if resources are not a problem,
the communication latency between the end-hosts is likely to increase signiﬁcantly.
The connection reversal technique, shown in Figure 2, is simple and is the basis for
approaches more efﬁcient than the relay. In general, there is a rendezvous server and at least
one host is not blocked by NAT/ﬁrewall. The rendezvous server does not relay trafﬁc between
end-hosts, it only takes part of the initial steps intermediating the establishment of a direct UDP
ﬂow between the hosts themselves. A host behind NAT/ﬁrewall needs initially to communicate
with a rendezvous server in order to receive requests from outside. As it is shown in Figure 2,
if host B wants to communicate with host A, it (a) sends a reverse connection request to the
rendezvous R . The request (b) is relayed to host A , containing information about host B .
Finally, (c) host A starts the reverse connection to the host B . The main drawback of this
solution is the quite strong assumption that one of the end-hosts is not behind NAT/ﬁrewall.
There are several solutions for allowing the communication between two hosts both
behind NAT/ﬁrewall (HUITEMA, 2006; ROSENBERG, 2010). These solutions are based on
the same principles as those employed when only one host is behind NAT/ﬁrewall. The most
successful approach (SRISURESH et al., 2008) is UDP hole punching. Before this is described
Abakos, Belo Horizonte, v. 8, n. 2, p. 29-41, novembro 2020 – ISSN: 2316-9451. 33

Beware: NAT Traversal is a Simple and Efﬁcient Approach to Open Firewall Holes
Figure 2 – Connection reversal
Source: Elaborated by authors.
it is important to highlight that although TCP hole punching (ROSENBERG, 2010) is similar,
it does not work in several scenarios due to signalling and closed loop issues of the TCP.
UDP hole punching (SRISURESH et al., 2008) is a technique used to establish a direct
UDP session between two hosts both behind NAT/ﬁrewall. The approach relies on a rendezvous
server that must be previously known by the two hosts and is not behind NAT/ﬁrewall. The
rendezvous assists in the establishment of the session, but is not used later.
Figure 3 shows how UDP hole punching works. Consider two hosts A and B, both
behind NAT/ﬁrewall. Both hosts must have an active session with rendezvous R. When a host
sends a UDP packet to the rendezvous in order to start a session, the rendezvous stores the
host’s public EP. Then, as shown in Figure 3 the following steps are executed: (a) host B
communicates with rendezvous R; (b) host A communicates with rendezvous R, and ﬁnally
(c) a UDP packet is sent from host B to host A in order to open a hole on NA T2, which is
followed by (d) a UDP packet sent from host A to host B in order to open a hole on NA T1.
Figure 3 – UDP hole punching
Source: Elaborated by authors.
Thus the steps executed to open a hole on the NAT devices are:
1. A sends a message to R informing the address of B.
Abakos, Belo Horizonte, v. 8, n. 2, p. 29-41, novembro 2020 – ISSN: 2316-9451. 34

Beware: NAT Traversal is a Simple and Efﬁcient Approach to Open Firewall Holes
2. R sends a response to A with the public EP of B, and sends a packet to B with
the public EP of A.
3. Each host, upon receiving the packet from R, begins to periodically send UDP
packets to the EP of the other, using the same local port used in the session with
the rendezvous. Eventually the holes on both sides will be opened.
4. In parallel with step 3, each host listens for UDP packets from the other. When
a packet arrives from the other host, a response is sent, and the procedure is
completed successfully.
After these steps, both hosts can communicate freely using their known public EP’s as
if they were not behind NAT. As a side effect, this process may also open holes on ﬁrewalls at
both ends as shown next.
Stateful ﬁrewalls employ the same principle as NAT for allowing packet ﬂows, i.e. as
the ﬁrewall processes the ﬁrst packet of a given ﬂow originated inside the network it creates
state information that allows the destination host to send back packets to the protected network.
The consequence is that stateful ﬁrewalls suffer from the same security fragility as NAT: any
internal host can independently open holes to provide services that can be accessed from the
rest of the Internet.
The approach we describe in the next section provides a functionality that is similar
to Teredo’s (HUITEMA, 2006). However our approach works either with IPv4 or IPv6. Al-
though the main purpose of Teredo is just to provide IPv6 connectivity it also traverses NAT
and ﬁrewalls.
Most recent research work on NAT traversal are related to IoT (Internet of Things). In
(NOVO, 2018) tackles the fact that devices may suffer from resource constraints and may not be
able to implement current NAT traversal architectures. A NAT traversal strategy based on SDN
(Software Deﬁned Network) technology to be applied in an IoT setting is presented in (W ANG
et al., 2019). We highlight that the authors do not even mention the security issues involved.
3 A STRA TEGY FOR NA T & FIREW ALL TRA VERSAL
We now describe in detail a strategy to enable transparent and direct communication
between application processes using any transport protocol running on hosts behind NAT/ﬁre-
wall. The strategy is based on the use of virtual interfaces for tunneling and on the automatic
establishment of IPv6 tunnels with the help of UDP hole punching. Although the strategy we
describe employs IPv6, it also works with IPv4. The IPv6 trafﬁc is encapsulated within UDP
datagrams, which are sent across the IPv4/IPv6 Internet.
The strategy relies on two types of processes: clients and rendezvous. A client is a
process that runs at the end-hosts to assist the NAT/ﬁrewall traversal. A rendezvous is a process
Abakos, Belo Horizonte, v. 8, n. 2, p. 29-41, novembro 2020 – ISSN: 2316-9451. 35

Beware: NAT Traversal is a Simple and Efﬁcient Approach to Open Firewall Holes
running at a host not behind NAT/ﬁrewall whose main function is to help two clients to establish
a UDP hole punch session. The interaction between clients and rendezvous is detailed next.
It is assumed that every client keeps a list of rendezvous. Initially, the client sends a
UDP datagram to login to a rendezvous, and waits for a response for a limited time interval.
The datagram can be retransmitted a conﬁgurable number of times until a response is received,
or the client gives up. A rendezvous can deny the login request and send back a list of other
rendezvous that the client can try. In other words, a rendezvous can redirect clients to other
rendezvous. After successfully logging in at a rendezvous, the client sends UDP datagrams
periodically in order to keep the UDP session active.
When a rendezvous accepts the login of a client, it chooses an IPv6 address that will be
used by that client. Upon receiving the address, the client creates an IPv6 virtual tunnel interface
using the Universal TUN/TAP driver 5. This interface is not tied to any physical network card,
but instead forwards the trafﬁc received from the operating system to a user-speciﬁed process.
From the application’s point of view, the virtual network interface works as a conventional IPv6
interface. Furthermore, the application process can send/receive packets through the virtual
interface, as if they had come from a physical network card.
As mentioned above, a rendezvous is a process that is not behind NAT/ﬁrewall. A
rendezvous is a UDP server that listens for UDP datagrams coming from a client. A rendezvous
keeps a table with information about all the clients with active sessions. Each table entry has the
following data: the client’s EP public IPv4, the client’s IPv6 address and an estimated timeout.
The timeout ﬁeld records the time the rendezvous received the last message from the client.
Using the timeout information it is possible to remove inactive sessions from the table, i.e.,
those inactive for a time interval larger than a threshold. It is easy to extend this strategy to
allow multiple rendezvous.
4 EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
In this section we present two sets of experimental results. We ﬁrst evaluate the overhead
of using NAT traversal on the communication. Then we compare the strategy described with
the alternative approach based on relay servers. All experiments were performed in a testbed
that allowed us to control the routing complexity as well as to conﬁgure the delay of each link.
Initially, we measured the time required to setup the tunnel between the endpoints. Fi-
gure 4 shows that the mean delay to setup a tunnel is about 15 ms and none of the 1,000 tests
executed required more than 40 ms.
Next, we evaluated the end-to-end delay after the tunnel had been created. Table 1
presents the RTT (Round-Trip Time) measurements obtained considering endpoints behind
NATs and using direct routing. We have used the netem tool to create three different sce-
narios with different end-to-end delays: no extra delay, a ﬁxed extra delay of 50 ms, and a
5http://vtun.sourceforge.net/tun/
Abakos, Belo Horizonte, v. 8, n. 2, p. 29-41, novembro 2020 – ISSN: 2316-9451. 36

Beware: NAT Traversal is a Simple and Efﬁcient Approach to Open Firewall Holes
Figure 4 – Time to establish tunnel between hosts behind NA T/Firewall
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0  5  10  15  20  25  30  35  40
PDF
Tunnel setup delay (ms)
2.8%
28.8%
0.3%
39.1%
25%
0.1%
0.3%
3.4%
0.1%
0.1%
Source: Elaborated by authors.
variable extra delay with mean of 50 ms. RTT values were collected using ping/ping6, ge-
nerating 1,000 probes (one per second) of 1400 bytes in each test. As can be seen in Table 1,
the overhead is very low.
Table 1 – RTT between end systems
Direct routing Behind NA T
Scenario Mean (ms) Std. dev. Mean (ms) Std. dev.
No delay 1.94046 1.14740 2.05956 0.50226
Fixed 50 ms 52.22857 0.48930 52.84094 0.66293
Variable 50 ms 53.99574 3.40016 54.05368 2.48792
Source: Elaborated by authors.
A sequence of experiments were then executed in order to evaluate the performance
of the strategy under a heavy throughput demand. Each experiment lasted for 60 s, and was
executed 30 times for each conﬁguration. The mean values are presented together with the
conﬁdence interval of 95%. This conﬁdence interval is barely visible in the ﬁgures.
Figure 5 shows the throughput of UDP as a function of the end-to-end delay measured
as the RTT. A higher RTT should not affect the UDP throughput, since the sender does not
depend on the receiver feedback. However, this test is important to evaluate the overhead of the
additional headers employed by the strategy and conﬁrm the expected behavior. The Iperf
tool was setup to generate 100 Mbps, i.e., the bottleneck throughput of the testbed. With direct
routing a mean throughput of 95.6 Mbps was achieved, which is close to the maximum possible
throughput, discounting UDP+IPv4 headers. Without any tuning, we reached a throughput
value of approximately 85.7 Mbps, which was a bit lower than expected, and is caused by the
extra headers employed, plus fragmentation. After adjusting the MTU of the virtual interface,
the UDP throughput reached the unsurprising mean value of 92.2 Mbps.
Figure 6 shows the throughput of TCP as a function of the RTT. Again, there is a little
difference between direct routing and the NAT/ﬁrewall traversal technique when the RTT is
below 200 ms, in this case the bandwidth-delay product (BDP) still has a minor impact on the
TCP performance. When the RTT is greater than 200 ms, there is virtually no difference since
BDP is dominant in the TCP performance results.
Abakos, Belo Horizonte, v. 8, n. 2, p. 29-41, novembro 2020 – ISSN: 2316-9451. 37

Beware: NAT Traversal is a Simple and Efﬁcient Approach to Open Firewall Holes
Figure 5 – UDP throughput as a function of the RTT
 0
 20
 40
 60
 80
 100
 0  100  200  300  400  500
Throughput (Mbps)
RTT (ms)
Direct routing
Behind NAT (original)
Behind NAT (custom)
Source: Elaborated by authors.
Figure 6 – TCP throughput as a function of the RTT
 0
 20
 40
 60
 80
 100
 0  100  200  300  400  500
Throughput (Mbps)
RTT (ms)
Direct routing
Behind NAT
Source: Elaborated by authors.
The ﬁnal result we present is a comparison with the relay server approach. The results
show that the communication performance can be severely degraded when a third party is re-
quired for routing purposes. Iperf was again used to generate TCP trafﬁc between end-hosts.
Figure 7 shows the environment used in the experiments. The path NA T1-R1-R2-R3-
NA T2is the default route between host A and host B . The indirect path NA T1-R1-RR-R3-
NA T2is used when the relay server is employed. We have built three scenarios: 1) the indirect
path has characteristics that are similar to the default path, 2) the indirect path has a larger delay
than the default path, and 3) the indirect path has less bandwidth than the default path. The ﬁrst
scenario is rarely found in the Internet. Results of these experiments are summarized in Table 2.
Figure 7 – Comparison with the alternative strategy using a relay server
Source: Elaborated by authors.
Abakos, Belo Horizonte, v. 8, n. 2, p. 29-41, novembro 2020 – ISSN: 2316-9451. 38

Beware: NAT Traversal is a Simple and Efﬁcient Approach to Open Firewall Holes
As can be seen in Table 2, the reversal strategy exhibits a stable performance in different
scenarios. In the low delay scenario, the RTT of default route is 10 ms, while for the indirect
path it is 100 ms. In the high capacity scenario, the bottleneck throughput of default route
is 100 Mbps and indirect path is limited to 10 Mbps. Since only some control packets are
exchanged between a rendezvous and a client, the rendezvous does not become a bottleneck to
the system. A relay server remains an active part of the communication and thus has a higher
impact on the performance.
Table 2 – Comparison between reversal technique and relay server
Reversal Technique| Relay Server
Scenario Mean (Mbps) Std. dev. Mean (Mbps) Std. dev.
Similar env. 88.490 0.596 89.903 0.617
Low delay 88.490 0.596 86.587 3.098
High capacity 88.490 0.596 9.282 0.012
Source: Elaborated by authors.
Our results conﬁrm that different types of applications can be deployed on top of NAT
traversal techniques.
5 CONCLUSION
NAT traversal techniques are widely used. However, as a side effect, communicating
with those techniques also involves opening ﬁrewall holes. In this way a security breach can
be created as unauthorised services are made available from supposedly secured networks. The
consequences can be severe to organizations and individuals connected to the Internet. In this
article we described a simple approach to deploy NAT/ﬁrewall traversal and show experimen-
tally that it is very efﬁcient.
The challenges derived from this fact are far from trivial to solve. Although NAT and
ﬁrewall have had a deep impact on the universal transparency of the Internet, they are key secu-
rity technologies without which private networks would certainly become critically vulnerable.
Future work includes the investigation of techniques that keep the functionality of NAT traver-
sal, but are able to detect malicious/unauthorized usage.
Abakos, Belo Horizonte, v. 8, n. 2, p. 29-41, novembro 2020 – ISSN: 2316-9451. 39

Beware: NAT Traversal is a Simple and Efﬁcient Approach to Open Firewall Holes
REFERENCES
BODEI, C. et al. Language-Independent Synthesis of Firewall Policies. In: 2018 IEEE EURO-
PEAN SYMPOSIUM ON SECURITY AND PRIV ACY (EUROS P). ee: ed, 2018. p. 92–106.
CARPENTER, B. Internet Transparency. 2000. <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2775.txt>.
FORD, B.; SRISURESH, P.; KEGEL, D. Peer-to-peer communication across network address
translators. In: USENIX ANNUAL TECHNICAL CONFERENCE. (A TEC). [S.l.], 2005.
FREED, N. Behavior of and Requirements for Internet Firewalls . 2000. <http://www.ietf.
org/rfc/rfc2979.txt>.
GARRETT, T. et al. Monitoring Network Neutrality: A Survey on Trafﬁc Differentiation De-
tection. IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, v. 20, n. 3, p. 2486–2517, 2018.
HERRY , H. et al. Peer-to-peer secure updates for heterogeneous edge devices. In: NOMS 2018
- 2018 IEEE/IFIP NETWORK OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT SYMPOSIUM. [S.l.],
2018. p. 1–5.
HO, C.Y . et al. To call or to be called behind NATs is sensitive in solving direct connection
problem. IEEE Communications Letters, v. 15, n. 1, p. 94–96, 2011.
HSU, F.-H. et al. Handover: A mechanism to improve the reliability and availability of network
services for clients behind a network address translator.Computers & Electrical Engineering,
v. 67, p. 159–169, 2018.
HUITEMA, C. Teredo: Tunneling IPv6 over UDP through Network Address Translations
(NA Ts). 2006. <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4380.txt>.
MAHY , R.; MATTHEWS, P.; ROSENBERG, J. Traversal Using Relays around NA T
(TURN): Relay Extensions to Session Traversal Utilities for NA T (STUN) . 2010. <http:
//www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5766.txt>.
MÜLLER, A.; WOHLFART, F.; CARLE, G. Analysis and Topology-based Traversal of Cas-
caded Large Scale NATs. In: PROCEEDINGS OF THE 2013 WORKSHOP ON HOT TOPICS
IN MIDDLEBOXES AND NETWOEK FUNCTION VIRTUALIZATION. [S.l.], 2013. p. 43–
48.
NOVO, O. Making Constrained Things Reachable: A Secure IP-Agnostic NAT Traversal Ap-
proach for IoT. ACM Transactions on Internet Technology (TOIT) , ACM New York, NY ,
USA, v. 19, n. 1, p. 1–21, 2018.
PANASONIC. NA T Traversal Service. 2013. <https://panasonic.net/cns/psn/products/hdvc/
nat/nat_traversal/index.html>. Last access: Aug-2013.
PRO, CommuniGate. NA T Traversal. 2013. <http://www.communigate.com/cgatepro/NAT.
html>. Last access: Aug-2013.
ROSENBERG, J. Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network
Address Translator (NA T) Traversal for Offer/Answer Protocols . 2010. <http://www.ietf.
org/rfc/rfc5245.txt>.
ROSENBERG, J. et al. Session Traversal Utilities for NA T (STUN). 2008. <http://www.ietf.
org/rfc/rfc5389.txt>.
Abakos, Belo Horizonte, v. 8, n. 2, p. 29-41, novembro 2020 – ISSN: 2316-9451. 40

Beware: NAT Traversal is a Simple and Efﬁcient Approach to Open Firewall Holes
SALTZER, J. H.; REED, D.P.; CLARK, D.D. End-to-end arguments in system design. ACM
Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS), v. 2, n. 4, p. 277–288, 1984.
SRIRAMA, S. N.; LIY ANAGE, M. TCP Hole Punching Approach to Address Devices in Mo-
bile Networks. In: 2014 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON FUTURE INTERNET OF
THINGS AND CLOUD. [S.l.], 2014. p. 90–97.
SRISURESH, P.; EGEV ANG, K.B.Traditional IP Network Address Translator (Traditional
NA T). 2001. <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3022.txt>.
SRISURESH, P.; FORD, B.; KEGEL, D.State of Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Communication across
Network Address Translators (NA Ts). 2008. <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5128.txt>.
TSENG, C.-C. et al. Can: A context-aware NAT traversal scheme. Journal of Network and
Computer Applications, v. 36, n. 4, p. 1164–1173, 2013.
W ANG, H.; CHEN, C.; LU, S. An SDN-based NAT Traversal Mechanism for End-to-end IoT
Networking. In: 2019 20TH ASIA-PACIFIC NETWORK OPERATIONS AND MANAGE-
MENT SYMPOSIUM (APNOMS). [S.l.], 2019. p. 1–4.
WEBRTC. WebRTC. 2013. <http://www.webrtc.org/>. Last access: Aug-2013.
Abakos, Belo Horizonte, v. 8, n. 2, p. 29-41, novembro 2020 – ISSN: 2316-9451. 41