Changing of the Guards: A Framework for Understanding
and Improving Entry Guard Selection in Tor
Tariq Elahi†, Kevin Bauer†, Mashael AlSabah†, Roger Dingledine‡, Ian Goldberg†
†University of Waterloo ‡The Tor Project, Inc.
†{mtelahi,k4bauer,malsabah,iang}@cs.uwaterloo.ca ‡arma@torproject.org
ABSTRACT
Tor is the most popular low-latency anonymity overlay network
for the Internet, protecting the privacy of hundreds of thousands
of people every day. To ensure a high level of security against cer-
tain attacks, Tor currently utilizes special nodes called entry guards
as each client’s long-term entry point into the anonymity network.
While the use of entry guards provides clear and well-studied secu-
rity beneﬁts, it is unclear how well the current entry guard design
achieves its security goals in practice.
We design and implement Changing of the Guards (COGS), a
simulation-based research framework to study Tor’s entry guard de-
sign. Using COGS, we empirically demonstrate that natural, short-
term entry guard churn and explicit time-based entry guard rotation
contribute to clients using more entry guards than they should, and
thus increase the likelihood of proﬁling attacks. This churn signiﬁ-
cantly degrades Tor clients’ anonymity. To understand the security
and performance implications of current and alternative entry guard
selection algorithms, we simulate tens of thousands of Tor clients
using COGS based on Tor’s entry guard selection and rotation al-
gorithms, with real entry guard data collected over the course of
eight months from the live Tor network.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
C.2.0 [Computer-Communication Networks]: General— Data
communications; C.4 [Computer Systems Organization]: Perfor-
mance of Systems; K.4.1 [ Computers and Society]: Public Policy
Issues— Privacy
General Terms
Measurement, Performance, Security
Keywords
Entry guard, predecessor attack, Tor, quality of service
1. INTRODUCTION
Tor [9] is the most widely used volunteer-resourced anonymous
communication network. It is designed to provide communicating
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this w ork for
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided th at copies are
not made or distributed for proﬁt or commercial advantage and th at copies
bear this notice and the full citation on the ﬁrst page. To cop y otherwise, to
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, re quires prior speciﬁc
permission and/or a fee.
WPES’12,October 15, 2012, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA.
Copyright 2012 ACM 978-1-4503-1663-7/12/10 ...$15.00.
parties with anonymity from their communication partners as well
as from passive third parties observing the network. This is done
by distributing trust over a series of Tor routers, which the network
clients select to build paths to their Internet destinations.
If the adversary can anticipate or compel clients to choose com-
promised routers then clients can lose their anonymity. Indeed,
the client router selection protocol is a key ingredient in main-
taining the anonymity properties that Tor provides and needs to
be secure against adversarial manipulation and leak no information
about clients’ selected routers.
When the Tor network was ﬁrst launched in 2003, clients se-
lected routers uniformly at random—an ideal scheme that provides
the highest amount of path entropy and thus the least amount of
information to the adversary. However, for load balancing reasons,
the router selection algorithm was changed in 2004 so that clients
weight their selection by the amount of bandwidth that routers offer
to the network; a router that offers more bandwidth to the network
is selected more often by clients.
Another key change to the original router selection algorithm in
Tor is the use of entry guards. The concept of entry guards emerged
as a solution to safeguard against a variety of threats to end-user
anonymity [5, 13, 18]. Guards were adopted into Tor with speciﬁc
parameters that seemed likely to provide acceptable security and
load balancing characteristics for the network and end users. Those
parameters include the number of entry guards that a client begins
with, and the amount of time a client can use his/her entry guard
before switching (rotating) to new entry guards.
Context and motivation. Recently, there has been renewed inter-
est in reevaluating these ﬁxed parameters in combination with net-
work conditions, such as churn and load balancing, to more care-
fully determine the security that entry guards provide to users.
Dingledine [8] formalizes the open issues related to Tor’s entry
guard design, which are paraphrased below:
• Quantify the vulnerability due to natural guard churn, which
is the added compromise due to guard nodes going ofﬂine.
• Quantify the client compromise rates at different amounts of
adversarial bandwidth in the network.
• Quantify the vulnerability due to guard rotation and compare
with natural churn. Which of these is the dominant contrib-
utor to client compromise? Also, how does varying the rota-
tion periods affect the compromise rates?
• Quantify the client compromise effects of different guard list
sizes.
While analysis [13] provides evidence of security beneﬁts and there
is a consensus within the Tor community that entry guards provide
load balancing beneﬁts, there is yet no empirical evidence of the
effects and limitations inherent in their design and in their imple-

mentation. Indeed, a lot of faith is placed in the design of guards
and it is pragmatic to ensure that this faith is well placed.
Understanding and improving entry guards. To gauge the se-
curity and performance impact of entry guards in Tor and to pro-
vide direct answers to the questions above, we conduct an empiri-
cal analysis of Tor’s entry guard selection and rotation algorithms
by constructing a simulation framework called Changing of the
Guards (COGS).
Contributions. This paper offers the following contributions to
the ﬁeld of anonymous communications:
• We present COGS, our simulation framework that is designed
to provide quantitative data about guard design choices.
• With COGS, we conduct an empirical characterization of en-
try guards fueled by real data on Tor routers captured by the
Tor Metrics Portal. In particular, we analyze natural churn,
entry guard rotation, the number of entry guards chosen, and
other parameters in terms of their effects on security and per-
formance through large-scale simulation of Tor’s current en-
try guard selection and rotation algorithms.
• We investigate the trade-offs between the variables above
from the perspectives of security and performance.
• We present answers to open research questions posed by Din-
gledine with discussion on future guard design research.
Our results indicate that Tor’s guard ﬂag allocation process im-
proves overall guard stability, that guard rotation is a major contrib-
utor of client compromise yet is self-limiting, and that for certain
client/adversarial models using more guards provides far superior
security than possible under Tor’s current defaults.
Roadmap. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows:
Section 2 provides the reader with a comprehensive overview of
Tor’s design, including the guard selection and ﬂagging algorithms.
We present COGS in Section 3 and provide our answers to the open
questions discussed above in Section 4. We discuss some open
issues from our analysis in Section 5 and in Section 6 we outline
related work. Finally, we conclude and enumerate future work in
Section 7.
2. BACKGROUND
In this section, we present a detailed overview of Tor’s design
and system architecture.
2.1 Tor Overview
Tor provides a means to communicate over the Internet anony-
mously. A Tor client can remain anonymous from Internet servers,
and the parties in communication can remain unlinked from each
other from the perspective of an observer. We shall now discuss the
mechanics of how this is achieved.
The Tor network is composed of volunteer-operated nodes called
Onion Routers (ORs), also known as relays or nodes. These ORs
provide network connectivity and bandwidth capacity for end-user
trafﬁc. Anyone may operate a relay and indeed a strength of Tor
is the diversity and number of its network nodes. When an OR
joins the network it announces its details, such as its network ad-
dress/port, its donated bandwidth capacity, and its exit policy —
stating to what Internet addresses and ports outside of the Tor net-
work this relay is willing to send trafﬁc—to the (distributed) di-
rectory authority. The OR will then be listed on the global list of
relays and be a candidate for routing end user trafﬁc.
An end user downloads the Tor client, also known as an Onion
Proxy (OP), which on start up downloads the consensus document
of all running relays as well as relay descriptors from the direc-
tory authority (or one of its mirrors). These documents contain the
details of each relay that the OP uses to route trafﬁc through the
network. In order to protect clients against route bridging and ﬁn-
gerprinting attacks [7], these documents are updated hourly so as to
provide a current and consistent picture of the network to all clients.
Consensus documents are published precisely once per hour and
descriptors are updated in real time as their contents change.
The directory authority also provides metadata in the consensus
document that helps the OP route trafﬁc more intelligently. In par-
ticular, the OP uses the consensus in the process of constructing a
circuit—a path through the Tor network. By default, circuits con-
sist of three ORs selected by the OP . We next describe the process
of router selection that is performed by OPs.
Router selection. In the default setting, the OP selects ORs from
a distribution that favours higher-bandwidth relays but also allows
low-bandwidth relays to be utilized to some extent. The three ORs
in the circuit are termed the entry, middle, and exit ORs. The OP
communicates directly with the entry OR, the entry communicates
with the middle OR, and the middle communicates with the exit
OR. Finally, the exit OR communicates directly with the destina-
tion Internet server.
Although the number of circuits constructed is governed by im-
mediate and anticipated need, a general rule is that each circuit is
used for about ten minutes before the Tor client will begin using a
fresh circuit.
The OP constructs the circuit as follows. The OP ﬁrst picks a
suitable exit relay—suitability being a function of the relay’s con-
ﬁguration as an exit relay (which is communicated to clients with
the Exit ﬂag in the consensus document) and its exit policy. Next,
the OP picks the entry OR while ensuring that all the relays have
distinct /16 IP addresses and relay families.1 (We provide more de-
tails on the constraints placed on entry selection in Section 2.2.)
The middle node is then picked in a similar fashion.
Finally, the OP constructs the circuit using the three ORs in an
incremental and telescoping manner. The OP negotiates crypto-
graphic material with the entry OR and once an encrypted channel
is established between them it asks the entry OR to extend the cir-
cuit towards the middle OR. The OP then negotiates cryptographic
material with the middle OR—communicating through the entry
OR—to establish an encrypted channel between them. The middle
OR is then asked to extend the circuit to the exit OR and the pro-
cess is repeated to establish a secure channel between the OP and
the exit relay.
2.2 Entry Guard Relays
All Tor relays are donated and as such it is hard to know which
ones can be trusted. It is easy, then, for the adversary to donate
resources and participate in circuits. The danger is when the adver-
sary controls both the entry and exit ORs on a single circuit. In this
scenario the client address and destination address of the trafﬁc are
known to the adversary who, through tagging or trafﬁc conﬁrma-
tion attacks [6,10,12], effectively deanonymizes the client. Follow-
ing this previous work, we assume that these attacks are easy and
accurate to carry out; however, the extent to which this assumption
is true is beyond the scope of this paper.
Given enough time and the presence of adversarial ORs, the OP
will eventually construct circuits that have malicious entry and exit
ORs. Since Tor picks relays weighted according to bandwidth,
a sufﬁciently resourceful adversary can deluge the network with
high-bandwidth relays and increase the rate at which it can com-
promise circuits.
To mitigate this and related threats such as the predecessor at-
tack [ 18] and locating hidden services [ 13], entry guards were in-
1Operators of multiple Tor relays can voluntarily mark all the ORs
they control as being in a common family.

troduced. They limit the impact an adversary can have on Tor’s
user base by effectively reducing the number of times each client
selects her entry relays, thus slowing the rate of compromise and
reach of the adversary.
Instead of picking a new entry every time a circuit is constructed,
the OP maintains a guard list of a handful of pre-selected entry re-
lays. When the Tor client constructs this list, it selects an expiry
time for each of the guards in the list uniformly at random from the
range of 30–60 days; after that time, the guards will be dropped and
repopulated, as described in detail below. When circuits are con-
structed, the entry relay to be used is selected uniformly at random
from the client’s guard list. The rest of the circuit building process
remains the same. The effect of this change is that if no malicious
guard relays have been picked, the user is uncompromisable by the
adversary until she picks new guards. The disadvantage is that if a
client does pick a malicious guard then she has a higher probability
of being compromised for the next 30–60 days. It is debatable if it
is better to a) be compromised with some probability all the time
or to b) be either completely safe, or else compromised with higher
probability. Øverlier and Syverson [ 13] provide analysis that the
latter is preferable and hence the guard mechanism is embedded in
the Tor client code.
Moreover, since entry guards have the potential of negatively af-
fecting the performance of the Tor network and security of its users,
they need to be carefully selected. The main mechanisms in place
are the directory authority, which assigns guard status to relays, and
the guard selection algorithm executed by the Tor client. We next
explain how the guard ﬂag is obtained by ORs and how the guard
selection algorithm is carried out.
Guard ﬂag. All ORs in the Tor network are monitored for avail-
ability and bandwidth capacity by the directory authority. Relays
deemed stable2 and providing bandwidth above a certain threshold
(currently the median of all relay bandwidths, or 250 KB/s, which-
ever is smaller [ 15]) are selected to receive the guard ﬂag in the
consensus document; this ﬂag marks a relay as eligible to be in-
cluded in guard lists. This criterion promotes ORs that will most
likely be around for a long time and provide a level of bandwidth
that will not likely cause bottlenecks. However, we ﬁnd that there
is large variance in actual guard bandwidth and stability. At the
time of our experiments there were, on average, 800 routers with
the guard ﬂag. An important tension to note is that if the criteria are
too selective, then few guards will be available, forcing more trafﬁc
through fewer nodes, at a cost to both network utilization and secu-
rity. At the same time, if the criteria are too lenient, then less stable
guards are likely to churn more often, leading to larger guard lists,
and an increased likelihood of selecting a malicious guard. This
paper investigates this balance in detail.
Guard selection algorithm. Each client ensures that the number of
guards—both online and ofﬂine—in its guard list is at least the de-
fault number at all times. If a guard goes ofﬂine, either temporarily
or permanently, and there are fewer than two online guards in the
guard list, a new entry guard is picked, but each previous guard is
retried periodically, with an increasing back-off period, 3 according
to Algorithm 1. In addition, each of the relays in a client’s guard
list expires in 30–60 days as a guard rotation event occurs. The
algorithm for picking a guard, in either scenario, is as follows:
2The Guard ﬂag aims for high availability, not to be confused with
the Stable ﬂag from the consensus document, which is given to
relays with above-median mean-time-between-failures.
3While we do not analyze the effects of changing the back-
off periods—currently believed to be orthogonal to Tor’s guard
design—COGS provides us the ability to do so in the future.
Algorithm 1: Tor’s approach to retrying unavailable entry guards
Input: Current time T , last attempt at time Eℓ to contact entry
guard E, E has been unreachable since time Eu
Output: Return true if we should try to contact E, false
otherwise
1 d← T− Eu
2 if Eℓ < E u then return true
3 else if d < 6 hours then return T > (Eℓ + 1 hour)
4 else if d < 3 days then return T > (Eℓ + 4 hours)
5 else if d < 7 days then return T > (Eℓ + 18 hours)
6 else return T > (Eℓ + 36 hours)
• Read the consensus to ﬁnd the set of relays with the guard
ﬂag set.
• Exclude guards already in the client’s guard list, if any.
• Exclude guards in the same /16 IP block or family as any of
the guards in the client’s guard list.
• Select a guard at random from the remaining list of relays,
weighted by the relays’ adjusted bandwidths (see below).
• Assign a random expiration time 30–60 days hence.
• Repeat until the guard list contains the required number of
guard relays.
The adjusted bandwidths used as weights in the above algorithm
are based on values reported in the consensus for each relay, fur-
ther adjusted by utility weights . Since Tor’s bandwidth capacity
is at a premium, and exit bandwidth capacity more speciﬁcally,
this weighting mechanism is in place to make the most of these
resources, so that the network as a whole does not suffer from
overly poor performance. These weights are a function of the to-
tal bandwidth of each relay type, the total network bandwidth, and
the relative bandwidths and relay ﬂags of individual relays. As
the bandwidth and relay composition of the network changes, the
bandwidth weights of individual relays also change. Note that the
weighted consensus bandwidths are scalars without units; it is best
to think of them as “points,” where relays with more points are
more likely to be chosen in circuits. They are not actual bandwidth
measurements, and so it becomes difﬁcult to translate this metric
to real-world client experiences. We will refer to these “points” as
weighted bandwidth units (WBU).
In general, exit bandwidth is protected such that relays with the
Exit ﬂag are chosen in the exit position more than in other roles.
In particular, guards that are also exits will ﬁnd themselves used
more often as exits and less often as guards. This design choice
will have implications we will discuss later on.
Threat model. Tor provides anonymity properties against an ad-
versary that has a limited visibility of the network. The adversary
may operate malicious relays in the network and attain guard and
exit ﬂags by meeting the thresholds set out by the Tor speciﬁcation.
The goal of the adversary is to have relays under its control selected
as the guard and exit relays on the same circuit, thus compromising
the Tor user. The adversary does not have unlimited bandwidth and
we count any relays it compromises as its own.
Our investigation of guards is concerned with the choices for pa-
rameters made by the Tor community. These parameters are the
guard rotation duration, which at present is set to a uniformly ran-
dom time between 30 and 60 days, and the number of guards, which
at present defaults to three.
3. COGS FRAMEWORK
The design of the COGS framework is guided by Tor’s guard
path selection design, its governing parameters, the historical data

Experiment 
Conﬁguration
Consensus
Document
Descriptor
Document
Simulator
Observables
....
1000s of clients
Log
Log parser1 process per core
Observed 
Measurements
0
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.1
0.12
0.14
0.16
2011-04-01
2011-05-01
2011-06-01
2011-07-01
2011-08-01
2011-09-01
2011-10-01
2011-11-01
Fractionofactiveguardlistscompromised
Date
EffectsofNaturalChurn,i.e.TorwithoutGuardRotation
Tor:3G,norotation
Empirical
Results
Figure 1: COGS framework
sets available, and the research questions that we would like to an-
swer. The design is extensible in that future research questions per-
taining to guard and path selection can also be investigated using
the same framework with minimal effort.
The framework encompasses a) researcher-deﬁned observable s
or run-time measurements, b) the data sets available from the Tor
Metrics Portal [ 16], c) a Tor client simulator with hooks into the
internal running state of thousands of simulated clients, d) conﬁg-
uration ﬁles that instrument the simulator for each experiment, and
e) log parsers for data aggregation and statistics. Figure 1 provides
a graphical representation of the framework. We will describe each
in turn next.
Observables. In order to drive the analysis and produce justiﬁable
answers to the questions posed earlier, we deﬁne the following ob-
servables—metrics, attributes and effects that we want to measure.
It is possible to introduce more observables for further research,
some of which are outlined in Section 7.
From the historical consensus and descriptor documents we pick
observables that will shed light into the behaviour of guards. We
focus on client compromise and how it is affected by natural churn
and the operational parameters chosen by the Tor community.
The pattern of up time and down time for each relay provides
insight into its stability. Using the consensus history we measure
the consecutive down times of each relay; the same is done for up
times. From this we calculate the mean time to recover between
two runs of up times as well as the mean time between failure be-
tween two runs of down times. Statistical analysis provides the av-
erage case for the general population of relays and that of guards.
To measure the impact of guard selection we also record the
number of guards that observe each client during the simulation .
This indicator is useful since it establishes the high water mark of
potential compromise for each client. Even though each guard may
have only been an active guard to a client for a short period of time,
it is not safe to assume that the short period afforded limited impact
on the client’s privacy, since that short period may have been very
sensitive in nature.
Additionally, we measure the number of clients at each consen-
sus for whom at least one malicious guard is in the active guard
list; we term this event guard list compromise . The active guard
list is the ﬁrst N online relays in the client’s guard list ordered by
age, where N is the number of entry guards being utilized by the
client. This metric provides a view from the adversary’s perspec-
tive of how many clients it could potentially compromise at any
given time. Whereas Tor will always maintain a minimum of two
online guards, we experiment with active guard lists that at times
shrink to one in Section 4.
Finally, to evaluate the effect on performance of reduced active
guard lists that may occur due to changes to Tor’s default behaviour,
we measure the occurrences of active guard lists whose average
bandwidth falls below a certain threshold . The number of active
guards is not as important here as the average of their bandwidths,
since this value can directly inﬂuence the client’s expected perfor-
mance. We measure the average active guard list bandwidth as an
indicator of the end user’s experience and not as an expectation of
the performance of any particular circuit. Recall also, from Sec-
tion 2.2, that the weighted consensus bandwidths do not represent
absolute bandwidths; nonetheless, we can meaningfully compare
the schemes against each other to ﬁnd the relative merits of each.
Data sets. The Tor Metrics Portal [ 16] provides hourly snap-
shots of publicly downloadable Tor relay descriptors and actual
published consensus documents from mid-2007 to the present. This
data offers a glimpse into the state of the Tor network over the past
several years in terms of the total number of relays, their ﬂags, and
their bandwidths. In addition, the presence (or absence) of any par-
ticular relays enables us to analyze relay stability over time.
Conﬁguration ﬁles of run-time options. We can change the be-
haviour of Tor clients, the adversary’s attributes, and the network
characteristics by passing parameters at run time through conﬁg-
uration ﬁles. Many experiments can be run simultaneously and
independently—contingent on compute and storage resources—to
provide insights into the behaviour of stock Tor and the many in-
teresting variations that research questions introduce. This mech-
anism allows us to attain answers in an efﬁcient and reproducible
manner. We discuss our parameter choices below in more detail.
Tor path selection simulator . Using the publicly available data
sets and our selected observables, we constructed a Tor path se-
lection simulator that selects guard relays and generates paths for
a large number of simulated Tor clients. The simulator takes two
pieces of data and a conﬁguration ﬁle as input:
1. Consensus documents: The simulator reads unmodiﬁed con-
sensus documents, one at a time, over the course of the time
period desired. The consensus provides information such as
each relay’s bandwidth weighting and its ﬂags.
2. Relay descriptors: The simulator also reads in relay descrip-
tors that correspond to each relay listed in a particular con-
sensus to allow correct Tor client behaviour.
3. Run-time options : The simulator takes run-time parameters
to introduce malicious relays (if an adversary is modelled),
augment the behaviour of clients (if required), choose the
number of clients to be simulated, and produce logs of the
observables.
In order to ensure the highest possible level of ﬁdelity to Tor’s
design, our simulator is based on Tor’s original source code (ver-
sion 0.2.2.33). For each consensus period, the simulated clients
select or update their guard lists, following all of the Tor rules for
guard replacement as described in Section 2.2.
Our simulator allows us to control the guard rotation mechanism
built in to Tor to test the effects of various guard rotation durations
(or lack of them) on client compromise and also allows us to inves-
tigate the effects of client guard list size.
The granularity of our simulations is one hour, which corre-
sponds to the granularity of the consensus documents. Every con-
sensus lists the relays that were available at the time; they are
loaded into the memory of our simulator, which then proceeds to
select guard relays according to Tor’s procedure for every client.
These guards are written to a log ﬁle for later processing. Each
consensus is fed into the simulator as a means to walk through time
and produce guard selection scenarios. It uses parameter settings
provided by us to simulate different network characteristics such

as the number of guards, guard rotation period, and others. Where
consensuses are missing from the Tor Metrics dataset, the simulator
skips that hour of history but all time-sensitive rules and operations
are followed and are reﬂected in the simulation results.
We can simulate an adversary with a ﬁxed budget of relay band-
width by injecting it into the list of routers in each consensus pe-
riod. The adversary is modeled by the amount of bandwidth it owns
and the number of nodes it controls.
We also instrument the Tor client code to log client state to disk
for all observables we are interested in. We refrained from logging
all state changes due to storage constraint considerations.
We have made COGS available as open-source software and it is
available from http://crysp.uwaterloo.ca/software.
Simulation setup and parameter choices. Our simulations were
run on multi-core servers to take advantage of parallelism in the
experiments. Each simulation run introduced 80,000 clients. 4
It is not yet clear how to best model the client behaviour as there
is yet no consensus within the Tor community on real-world client
behaviour. Indeed, this is a research problem in itself and out of
the scope of this work. Therefore, we model the user base size as
constant with no new clients joining the network, since our simula-
tions focus on long-term effects that are not sensitive to user churn.
For simplicity the simulated clients are always online, which is a
worst-case scenario since live clients do not use Tor continuously.
We choose the duration of our simulation by providing the start-
ing and ending epoch times. We chose Apr 2011–Nov 2011 as our
target time slice since it has relatively stable bandwidth character-
istics and a consistent consensus version number.
COGS allows the injection of malicious routers into the network
at run time through a conﬁguration parameter. 5 We have chosen to
introduce the malicious relay one consensus period, i.e. one hour,
after the simulation has begun and all clients already have honest
guards in their lists. This simulates an adversary attacking Tor after
clients have already started using it and also establishes more con-
servative compromise rates—effectively a lower bound. For our
simulations we assigned our malicious relay the guard ﬂag only
since also having the exit ﬂag reduces the probability of a router
being picked as a guard relay and would confound our results. Note
that the choice to operate an exit node is with the relay operator and
is not controlled by any authority.
The bandwidth assigned to this relay, approximately in the top
20% of guards, is incorporated into the network using the same
rules and bandwidth weightings as the normal routers. Using the re-
sults from Murdoch and Watson [ 11], we only introduce one mali-
cious relay because Tor’s guard selection algorithm chooses guards
in proportion to their bandwidth; this design means that an adver-
sary operating one high-bandwidth relay is equivalent to one oper-
ating many low-bandwidth relays as long as the total bandwidths
are the same. Since we consider the adversary to be intelligent and
capable of leveraging any and every advantage, we consider a client
to be compromised if even one malicious guard exists in her active
guard list.
It should be noted that while we initially set malicious bandwidth
as a proportion of the total bandwidth, this proportion changes over
time along with the total network bandwidth. We reason that keep-
ing this value constant does not harm the experiments since i) a real
adversary would not measure bandwidths on the entire network to
4This sample size was chosen by conducting experiments of in-
creasing sizes and ﬁnding the point at which the resulting distribu-
tions stabilize, according to the Kolmogorov-Smirnov distance.
5While this paper investigates only one value of this parameter, it
is simple to instantiate other behaviours through other values.
 0
 0.05
 0.1
 0.15
 0.2
 0.25
 0.3
 0.35
 0.4
2011-04
2011-04
2011-05
2011-05
2011-06
2011-06
2011-07
2011-07
2011-07
Fraction of active guard lists compromised
Date
1000 WBU
100 WBU
10 WBU
Figure 2: Client compromise rates at various adversarial band-
widths, where WBU is the amount of weighted bandwidth units
assigned to the malicious relay.
keep malicious bandwidth proportions constant and ii) the band-
width variance is small in our selected time period.
Log parser and data visualization. The log parsers—there are
several variants depending on the observables—extract the data we
are most interested in and compile it into a format that can then be
fed into data visualization programs. The data can be processed by
a variety of parsers in order to gain insight into various aspects of
guard design.
Our existing parsers process the raw logs to provide data on com-
promise rates, total guard exposure over the experiment run and
expected client performance.
While COGS is rooted in guard analysis, it can also be used to
simulate other Tor-related phenomena that do not involve actual
network trafﬁc. Examples include the analysis of client circuit di-
versity, the effects of introducing exit guards, and assessing whole-
network effects of heterogeneous client conﬁgurations.
4. MEASUREMENTS AND EV ALUATION
We now use COGS to collect the empirical data that will be
used to answer the four open research questions introduced ear-
lier. The main aim is to understand the effects of various guard
design choices on compromise rates. We measure the frequency
with which a client picks new guards, since the more often guards
are picked the more often a malicious relay has the chance to be
placed in the client’s guard list. The two main inﬂuences on the
frequency of guard selection—other than a new client joining the
network—are natural churn and guard rotation. We measure and
evaluate characteristics of each in order to better understand the
threats to client privacy.
Adversarial bandwidth and compromise rates. We base the
subsequent analysis on the assumption that malicious bandwidth is
directly related to compromise rates, albeit in complex ways. As
the adversary increases their bandwidth contribution they are able
to compromise more clients. This result is by design, as the Tor
guard selection algorithm favours relays with higher bandwidth.
We conﬁrm this assumption in Figure 2, which shows that as the
malicious bandwidth increases the compromise rates also increase.
Since relay bandwidth is independent of the other variables un-
der study, we keep the malicious relay’s bandwidth constant at 100
WBU for the rest of our experiments.

Table 1: Up and down times, in hours, of guard relays for Apr–
Nov 2011
Min 1st Qu. Median 3rd Qu. Mean Max
Guard Down 1 1 3 11 42.17 4978
Guard Up 1 7 20 127 156.7 3829
All Down 1 3 10 20 45 5454
All Up 1 1 4 11 19.82 3829
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
 0.9
 1
 1  10  100  1000  10000
CDF
Hours
Guard down times
All router up times
All router down times
Guard up times
Figure 3: Router up and down times for all routers and for
guards alone.
4.1 Natural Churn
To measure the effect of natural churn, we start by ﬁrst analyz-
ing the consensus data and establishing the pattern of churn (e.g.,
up and down times) for each relay over time. The subsequent statis-
tical analysis provides the results in Table 1. Note that we allow for
the effects of relays that had a high frequency of up/down events,
and that only relays that were available April to November 2011
were included in the data set.
The distance between the upper and lower curves in Figure 3
indicates that guards are more stable compared to the general router
population, due to their longer up times and shorter down times.
Next, we measure the effect of natural churn on guard list com-
promise and present the results in Figure 4 as the lower curve. For
this analysis we have removed the normal guard rotation mecha-
nism in the Tor client to isolate the effects of natural churn. We note
that natural churn occurs frequently and also has a large effect on
the network as indicated by the large uptick in compromised guard
lists over time. The sharp peaks and valleys between May 1, 2011
and June 30, 2011 are indicative of honest guards that go down
brieﬂy—during which time our malicious guard has an opportunity
to move into the active guard list—and then return—which bumps
the malicious guard out of the active list again. These characteristic
short guard down times concur with both Table 1 and Figure 3.
From the upward trend of the curve we now know that natural
churn has a real and lasting effect on client security and increases
with time. Given enough time a long-lived adversary will appear
in all clients’ guard lists. This risk can be mitigated with periodic
guard rotation, which is presented next.
4.2 Guard Rotation
The second factor to guard list compromise is the mechanism to
rotate each client’s guards after deﬁned periods of time. By de-
fault a Tor client drops its guards that are between 30–60 days old
 0
 0.02
 0.04
 0.06
 0.08
 0.1
 0.12
 0.14
 0.16
2011-04
2011-05
2011-06
2011-07
2011-08
2011-09
2011-10
2011-11
2011-12
2012-01
Fraction of active guard lists compromised
Date
With guard rotation
Without guard rotation
Figure 4: Effects of natural churn and guard rotation on active
guard list compromise.
in the guard list. There are two major reasons: to limit the num-
ber of clients a single well-resourced guard can service, and hence
compromise, at any given time and to balance the load so that long-
serving guards do not potentially end up bearing the load of more
clients over time. A negative effect is that clients with all honest
guards are exposed to potentially selecting a malicious guard upon
rotation, thus ensuring that after enough time all clients will have
been compromised at some point.
It is difﬁcult to isolate the effects of guard rotation from those
of natural churn under simulation with real data. We can, however,
analyze the effects of guard rotation in closed form and also analyze
the empirical results of the additional effect of guard rotation to
natural churn in simulation.
During our target time slice of eight months, we expect that every
client will rotate their guards at most as often as 30 days and at least
as often as every 60 days. The maximum number of potentially
unique guards that a client selects in those eight months is therefore
24, the minimum is 12, and the average is 17. This value is the
number of guard relays that can potentially compromise the client.
Note that without guard rotation, the least number of guards per
client would be three.
The upper curve in Figure 4 shows the additional effect that
guard rotation has on compromise rates. In the ﬁrst 30 days we
see a steady increase on both curves in compromise rates as only
natural churn is in effect. Then between 30–60 days the guard rota-
tion really begins to show its effects in the upper curve, peaking at
the end of May after which point a steady state seems to have been
reached, where the amount of new compromised active lists is off-
set with losses in compromised active lists. The upward and down-
ward trends are in part due to the malicious relay being pushed out
of the active guard list by honest relays returning from a downtime.
It is obvious that guard rotation increases the chances of active
guard list compromise substantially. This result implies that guard
rotation has a larger effect on compromise than does natural churn
alone. Although it is difﬁcult to isolate the interplay of natural
churn and guard rotation it is simple to see that guard rotation does
have negative effects.
A key takeaway here is that the nature of guard rotation and nat-
ural churn are different, which explains the disparity between the
curves. Guard rotation replaces a guard, while natural churn only
provides a backup guard. If the client picks no malicious guards
(as is the case initially), then with only natural churn in effect the

 0
 0.05
 0.1
 0.15
 0.2
 0.25
 0.3
 0  5  10  15  20  25  30
Fraction of clients
Number of guards that see a client from Apr-Dec 2011
Without guard rotation
With guard rotation
Figure 5: Comparison of natural churn and guard rotation ef-
fects on clients’ exposure to guards.
malicious relay can only hope to be picked once a client’s guard
goes ofﬂine. However, it will never be at the top of the list and will
be bumped out of the active list once the original guard returns. On
the other hand, when guard rotation is used, every 30–60 days the
malicious relay has a chance to be picked as one of the ﬁrst three
guards, thus cementing its place in the active guard list and thereby
enabling potential compromise whenever it is used.
Figure 5 shows the fraction of clients that have been seen by
various numbers of guards for Tor with and without guard rotation.
Guard rotation increases the visibility of each client on average to
19 guards. Recall that rotation causes at least 15 guards to see
the client at minimum, so coupled with natural churn this effect is
ampliﬁed. The effects of natural churn alone are small according
to this metric: the mean increases to ﬁve versus the minimum three
guards per client as indicated by the left curve.
As a counterpoint we observe that guard rotation does serve a
beneﬁcial purpose. As mentioned earlier, it reduces the likelihood
that certain long-lived guards will accumulate a large set of clients
and hence potentially compromise them. This self-limiting nature
means that it is not desirable to remove guard rotation as a mech-
anism without a suitable alternative; we are actively exploring this
area as ongoing work.
4.3 Guard List Size
Next, we investigate the effects of the size of the client’s guard
list and provide results and analysis for various values. We include
results both with and without guard rotation enabled. For these
experiments we run independent simulations for each of the guard
list size settings so the clients are homogeneous within each run.
Recall that the client will only replace a guard if guard rotation
dictates it (if in effect) or supplement it when there are fewer than
two guards online from the client’s guard list. Figure 6 shows client
compromise rates with guard rotation when the size of the client’s
guard list is 1, 2, 3, 5 and 10 guards, where the ‘G’ stands for
guards. From this analysis we discover that increasing the size of
the guard list increases the client compromise rates.
However, compare these rates to the results without guard ro-
tation in Figure 7, where the absolute compromise rates are far
lower but steadily increase over time. Also note that with guard
rotation off, increasing the guard list size beyond 3 guards has the
reverse effect of decreasing client compromise (curves for 5 and
10 guards). However, this effect does not last. We see the curve
for 5 guards crossing over the 1 guard curve, with all indications
 0
 0.05
 0.1
 0.15
 0.2
 0.25
 0.3
 0.35
 0.4
2011-04
2011-05
2011-06
2011-07
2011-08
2011-09
2011-10
2011-11
2011-12
2012-01
Fraction of active guard lists compromised
Date
1G
2G
3G
5G
10G
Figure 6: Client compromise rates at various client guard list
sizes, with guard rotation.
 0
 0.02
 0.04
 0.06
 0.08
 0.1
 0.12
2011-04
2011-05
2011-06
2011-07
2011-08
2011-09
2011-10
2011-11
2011-12
2012-01
Fraction of active guard lists compromised
Date
1G
2G
3G
5G
10G
Figure 7: Client compromise rates at various client guard list
sizes, without guard rotation.
of eventually crossing over the 2 and 3 guard curves as well if the
upward trend continues. The same trend occurs for the 10 guard
curve. The reason behind this trend is that initially the pool of pos-
sible guards is large and all are online; as guards fail, the client
does not take any steps to replace them since the size of the guard
list is still large enough and at least two of them are online. As
the guards that failed are removed from the list, more guards are
picked to maintain the overall size of the client’s guard list. This
last effect slowly erodes the advantage of starting off with a large
pool of guards.
We now consider the number of guards seen over time for differ-
ent starting guard list sizes. Figure 8 shows the effect of increasing
guard list size on clients’ guard exposure. It is apparent that in-
creasing the guard list size increases the client’s guard exposure.
Figure 9 provides results for when guard rotation is turned off.
While the overall guard exposure is far less than when guard rota-
tion is in effect, we see the same trend where larger starting guard
list size equates to more guard exposure. We observe that as the
client guard list size increases, the probability of more guards ever
being added to the list decreases. This effect is particularly strik-
ing for the 10 guard curve, and also evident for the 5 guard curve.
This result is due to relative guard stability and also to the condition
that fewer than two guards be present before a new guard is added.

 0
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 0  10  20  30  40  50  60  70
Fraction of clients
Number of guards that see a client from Apr-Dec 2011
1G
2G
3G
5G
10G
Figure 8: Client guard exposure with guard rotation at various
guard list sizes.
 0
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 0  2  4  6  8  10  12  14  16  18
Fraction of clients
Number of guards that see a client from Apr-Dec 2011
1G
2G
3G
5G
10G
Figure 9: Client guard exposure without guard rotation at var-
ious guard list sizes.
Comparing both ﬁgures we see a more general trend that without
guard rotation the value of guard exposure is close to the starting
guard list size (more pronounced for higher values) whereas with
guard rotation the values of guard exposure are many times larger.
4.4 A vailable Bandwidth
Before we can make any conclusions we must look at the effects
of these parameters on the average available bandwidth a client’s
guards provide it. Figure 10 shows the expected bandwidth for a
client circuit. Results with and without guard rotation are nearly
identical with negligible variations meaning that average perfor-
mance is independent of guard rotation.
Recalling that higher-bandwidth guards are more likely to be
selected for spots in a client’s guard list, poor guard bandwidth
availability happens when all of a client’s active guards have low
bandwidth. This situation occurs with decreasing probability as the
number of active guards increases, as is reﬂected in the dramatic
decrease in the long left tail in Figure 10 as the number of guards
increases from 1 to 3. Above 3, however, the improvements are less
pronounced.
Table 2: Median guard bandwidth ( WBU) from Apr–Nov 2011
Min Median Mean Max
40 67 68.31 113
5. DISCUSSION
Next we discuss the implications of our ﬁndings and address
Dingledine’s open research questions.
Guard stability and selection. As guards are the ﬁrst hop on
circuits, all of Tor’s functionality is contingent on their availabil-
ity. Section 4.1 shows that on the whole guards are quite stable.
Compared to the general population of relays, guards are generally
available for longer stretches of time and ofﬂine for shorter dura-
tions. This stability is a consequence of the guard ﬂag assignment
process governed by the directory authority and is as designed.
However, this process is not perfect, as we see that there are a
large quantity of guards with a wide variety of stability character-
istics that deviate from the intended entry guard design—recall Ta-
ble 1 for the range of downtimes and uptimes for guards. We note
that the incidence of active guard lists with low average bandwidth
in general is not prevalent; note that the curves for 3–10 guards in
Figure 10 do not have long tails to the left of the median as com-
pared to the 1 guard curve—meaning occasions where every guard
in a client’s active list has low bandwidth are rarer—and that per-
haps the guard ﬂag allocations could be more selective. Indeed,
Table 2 provides statistics on the median guard bandwidth during
our 8-month time slice; it is calculated by ﬁnding the median WBU
amongst all the guards in the consensus and then calculating the
median WBU across all the consensuses. It shows that the greatest
median guard relay bandwidth across all consensuses during that
time slice is just 113 WBU, a level of active guard bandwidth which
is surpassed by all clients with “3G” or more and only suffered by
5% of “1G” clients (Figure 10).
We reason that since low-bandwidth guard lists are rare, low-
bandwidth guards are not depended upon by end users and so re-
moving them from guard lists will not have a big impact from a
performance perspective.
However, it can be argued that for the sake of load balancing
these low-bandwidth relays provide relief whenever the end user
chooses them from their guard list instead of one of their higher-
bandwidth guards. These nodes may also provide added security
through additional relay diversity. It is unclear at the moment if
these nodes actually fulﬁll these desired effects, and this direction
is an avenue of future investigation.
Natural churn and its effects on client compromise. In the lower
curve in Figure 4, it is clear that natural churn provides an adversary
increased opportunities to compromise guard lists. We also note
that although there is some downward pressure due to returning
honest guards, the trend is upwards over time. If not for guard
rotation, after a sufﬁcient length of time a malicious relay should be
able to compromise all client lists. Recall that while guard rotation
speeds up the adversary’s accumulation of clients initially, it is self
limiting as the rate of clients gained equals the rate of clients lost
due to churn.
Furthermore, when reasoning about the impact of natural churn
it is difﬁcult to know beforehand when a guard is likely to return, if
ever. It is due to this uncertainty that Tor uses such sensitive guard
replacement policies and sophisticated retry mechanisms.
Putting natural churn in perspective, we can reason that it is an
artifact that cannot be removed from the network, and it has a large
effect on the security and performance of the network. Therefore,
the best policy may be to avoid situations that lead to churn in the

0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
100 1000 10000 100000
CDF
W Weighted Consensus Bandwidth
Cumulative distribution of active list set bandwidth
1G
10G
5G3G
2G
1G
10G
5G
3G
2G
Weighted consensus bandwidth
Figure 10: Client’s expected circuit performance with guard rotation at various guard list sizes. Performance results without guard
rotation are nearly identical.
ﬁrst place by selecting guards more cautiously and mitigating the
effects of churn when we do ﬁnd one of our active guards ofﬂine.
Guard rotation. Long-lived relays tend to accumulate clients over
time, and malicious relays will remain online to take advantage of
this effect. Rotating guards does in fact mitigate that eventuality.
We note that guard rotation does, however, increase the chance
of compromise: see the sudden increase in May 2011—when guard
rotation began to take effect in our experiment, 30 days after its
beginning—of the curve in Figure 4. We also note that in Figure 5
the number of guards a client is serviced by, and can hence poten-
tially be compromised by, is much larger when guard rotation is
in effect. Furthermore, Figure 9 indicates that all schemes expose
clients to fewer guards when guard rotation is not enabled. As miti-
gation of the above, we could increase the minimum and maximum
durations of guard rotation from the current 30–60 days and see
a reduction in both metrics, since the frequency of rotation events
would decrease.
In order to reason about rotation durations and pick better ones
we plot in Figure 11 the CDF of guard longevity for Apr–Nov 2011.
We note that only about 9% of guards remained part of the Tor net-
work for the entire 8-month duration of our experiments. Also, the
distribution is skewed towards shorter-lived routers with the median
at 1371 hours. The current rotation period is between 720–1440
hours which means that the majority of guards undergo guard rota-
tion. Since most guards are not long lived and leave the network of
their own accord, guard rotation occurring as frequently as it cur-
rently does is both unnecessary and undesirable. We would prefer
to target only those guards that are truly longer lived and thus are
the cause for our concern, and ignore those that simply do not exist
long enough to be worried about. Unfortunately, there is not an up-
ward inﬂection point, apart from the two small ones at the extreme
end of the time slice, which would indicate that longer-lived guards
stand apart from the others and thus can be dealt with using a more
appropriate rotation duration.
Perhaps as an alternative for longer-lived, and potentially more-
utilized guards, Tor ought to adjust their probabilities of being se-
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
 0.9
 1
 0  50  100  150  200  250
CDF
Days
Guard longevity
Figure 11: Guard longevity during Apr–Nov 2011.
lected according to how long they have been part of the network, in
addition to their bandwidths. The directory authorities can estimate
the number of clients currently using each guard relay based on its
historical weights and bandwidths, and adjust the weights in order
to balance the load. In this manner, over time, each guard will ef-
fectively limit the load on itself as well as reduce the accumulation
of clients.
Tor with one guard. Intuitively, it seems that one guard ought
to provide the best security but that perhaps performance would
suffer. We revisit the results in Section 4 to evaluate this intuition.
From a circuit compromise perspective, we see in Figure 6 that Tor
with one guard offers the least likelihood of compromised guard
lists. We also note that fewer guards participate in an end user’s
guard list in that case (Figure 8). However, from a performance
perspective we note in Figure 10 that compared to Tor with three
guards, Tor with one guard suffers from 60% worse performance

50% of the time but is better 50% of the time where it provides 25%
more average guard list bandwidth. This outcome can be explained
with guard lists that have a combination of slow and fast guards,
which causes the average to be lower than the fastest guard. In the
case of Tor with only one guard, when a fast guard is selected, the
client can expect to receive fast service, provided that the middle
and exit nodes are not slow. It is important to note, however, that
Tor with one guard is superior to the other schemes evaluated in
Section 4 when the bandwidths are already at acceptable levels,
whereas it provides far slower performance at the lower ends of the
bandwidth spectrum.
Hence, the number of guards is a parameter that needs careful
adjustment: our present results suggest that too few may lead to
performance degradation, while more can have unnecessary secu-
rity implications. Indeed, it may be the case that there are hereto
undiscovered security implications of using just one guard as well.
Answers to research questions. We now tie the results of our
investigation to the questions posed in Section 1, and see how much
progress has been made and what remains to be answered.
We found that adversarial bandwidth is directly related to client
compromise rates and that connection this is an unavoidable effect
of favouring higher bandwidth relays—recall that this is a design
choice, for the sake of better performance. What is interesting is
that, as seen in Figure 2, bandwidth and compromise rates are not
linearly related. While more research is required to establish the
exact relationship, it is clear that performance-enhancing measures
have led to higher client compromise rates in this regard.
We found that users achieve greater security if they reduce the
number of entry guards they use. They can further improve their
security by eliminating or reducing the process of guard rotation.
However, we also found that the security improvements through
the reduction of guards and guard rotation come at the expense of
performance degradation. We also found that natural churn, while
inherent in the network and a source of compromise, works to am-
plify the compromise rate, but is not a dominating factor in the
present Tor network.
We did not vary guard rotation periods in this paper. In future
work we plan to explore a mechanism that is independent of relay
stability and network characteristics.
By putting all the parameters together we ﬁnd in general that if
a suitable alternative to guard rotation can be found and smaller
guard lists used, then the security of Tor’s users will increase sig-
niﬁcantly while the impact to performance for clients with slower-
than-average guards will degrade only slightly.
This risk could be further mitigated by making the guard ﬂag
more selective and thus removing low-bandwidth guards, which
would raise the average guard bandwidth for all clients. We identify
this proposal as an area for further analysis.
6. RELATED WORK
Entry guards were ﬁrst proposed by Wright et al. [17] (there
called “helper nodes”) to mitigate the threat of the predecessor at-
tack [ 18] in low-latency anonymity networks. In the predecessor
attack, an adversary who deploys relays into the anonymity net-
work can passively link possible senders with possible receivers. If
clients choose their paths through the anonymity network by uni-
formly random selection, the predecessor attack predicts that an
adversary that controls c out of n nodes has the expectation of suc-
cessfully observing a given client after c/n rounds; the same adver-
sary has a (c− 1)/(n− 1) probability of observing the correspond-
ing destination server and a (c/n)((c− 1)/(n− 1)) probability of
linking the two. To eliminate the predecessor attack, Wright et al.
propose that the ﬁrst node in a path be ﬁxed. Clients who have the
misfortune of choosing a malicious entry node are guaranteed to
have a compromised ﬁrst hop, while all other clients are protected
from this threat.
Entry guards for modern onion routing networks (like Tor) were
proposed by Øverlier and Syverson [13]. Since Tor does not choose
circuits with uniform selection over the available nodes (but in-
stead, in proportion to each node’s bandwidth capacity), the de-
tails of the analysis of the predecessor attack are more compli-
cated. However, Øverlier and Syverson found that an adversary
who artiﬁcially inﬂates his perceived bandwidth capacity will be
selected more often and can launch a powerful predecessor attack.
To mitigate this threat, they propose that Tor clients choose a small,
ﬁxed number of Tor relays to always use as entry points into the
anonymity network.
Extending Øverlier and Syverson’s predecessor attack, Bauer et
al. [4] showed that an adversary who controls a large number of
nodes can launch a Sybil attack that has the effect of replacing
all non-malicious entry guards with malicious ones (potentially all
running on the same machine). The attack works by deploying
enough malicious nodes that advertise high bandwidth and uptimes
to effectively raise the criteria for the guard ﬂag so that only mali-
cious nodes can be used as entry guards. This attack was danger-
ously easy to launch, due to the fact that Tor’s authoritative direc-
tories relied solely on self-reported (and potentially inﬂated) band-
width and uptime claims. In part due to this attack, the directories
now track each router’s bandwidth and uptime [ 2, 14], and ensure
that no one can launch too many malicious nodes from the same
machine (or network) [ 3].
Borisov et al. [5] describe the effects of entry guards on the se-
lective denial of service (DoS) attack. They argue that while the
selective DoS attack will never be effective on a client that uses
honest entry guards, the attack becomes more powerful when a
client uses malicious entry guards. The authors also suggest that
the choice of three entry guards results in the highest number of
compromised circuits, and they suggest ﬁxing both the entry and
exit ORs as suggested by Wright et al. [18].
Abbott et al. [1] describe a browser-based attack on Tor where
a malicious exit injects a signal generator to the user’s trafﬁc. A
malicious entry guard is required to perform trafﬁc analysis on its
clients’ circuits to identify if a circuit carries the injected signal.
If such a circuit is identiﬁed, then the attacker is able to link the
client to its destination. A strong point of this attack is that it does
not require both entry and exit to compromise a circuit at the same
time, as it only requires that a malicious entry guard detect a spe-
ciﬁc signal encoded by a malicious web service. The authors argue
that using three entry guards helps to protect clients that use hon-
est entry guards. However, the attack becomes more effective for
unlucky clients who use malicious entry guards.
Since its initial proposal for Tor, the entry guard design has be-
come more sophisticated, including the many minute details de-
scribed in Section 2. However, to date, there has been no thor-
ough investigation into the security and performance implications
of Tor’s entry guard design. This work serves to ﬁll this gap.
7. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
We constructed COGS, a ﬂexible simulation framework, and used
it to investigate open research questions relating to Tor’s entry guard
design.
The major next step is to use the results presented here cou-
pled with further COGS-driven analysis to answer the ﬁnal ques-
tion posed by Dingledine [ 8]: how should Tor assign guard ﬂags to
ﬁnd the right balance between assigning the ﬂag to as many relays

as possible (for diversity) and minimizing the chance that a client
will use the adversary’s relay as a guard?
A related research problem currently under way is the Tor client
model. We noted in Section 3 that it is unclear how to model the
Tor client base and the adversary’s insertion strategy. We have
presented results where the adversary arrives after all clients have
picked their guards, and no client leaves the Tor network or joins
it. Counterintuitive properties—like those in Figure 7 where in-
creasing guard list size actually reduces compromise rates—may
not hold for other conditions. We need better models that accu-
rately reﬂect user and adversary behaviour in the Tor network in
order to properly resolve these questions.
We are also presently considering alternative guard selection al-
gorithms that have desirable properties. As an example of one pos-
sible direction, we note that in Section 5 the consensus bandwidth
weightings currently utilized to control the guard selection process
could be augmented with an age-related weighting that would af-
fect the probabilities of a guard’s selection. Also being examined,
and closely related, is Tor’s “weighted-fractional-uptime” metric—
a component in ensuring that the guard ﬂag is given to a relay with
little churn—which could be replaced with an alternative calcula-
tion that better predicts relay churn behaviour. Another example
is a trust-based [ 13] guard selection scheme such that clients pick
guards according to how much they trust them. One ﬁnal exam-
ple is to investigate the condition that guards are only added to a
client’s guard list when fewer than two online guards remain in the
list; further analysis is required to learn how this strategy may in-
teract with various guard selection algorithms.
Acknowledgements. We thank the anonymous reviewers for their
helpful comments and suggestions. We also thank NSERC, ORF,
Qatar University, NSF, and The Tor Project, Inc. for funding this
research.
8. REFERENCES
[1] A BBOTT , T. G., L AI, K. J., L IEBERMAN , M. R., AND
PRICE , E. C. Browser-based Attacks on Tor. In Proceedings
of the 7th International Conference on Privacy Enhancing
Technologies (Berlin, Heidelberg, 2007), Springer-V erlag,
pp. 184–199.
[2] B AUER , K., AND MCCOY, D. Tor speciﬁcation proposal
107: Uptime Sanity Checking.
https://gitweb.torproject.org/torspec.
git/blob_plain/HEAD:/proposals/
107-uptime-sanity-checking.txt , March 2007.
[3] B AUER , K., AND MCCOY, D. Tor speciﬁcation proposal
109: No more than one server per IP address.
https://gitweb.torproject.org/torspec.
git/blob_plain/HEAD:
/proposals/109-no-sharing-ips.txt , March
2007.
[4] B AUER , K., M CCOY, D., G RUNWALD , D., K OHNO , T.,
AND SICKER , D. Low-Resource Routing Attacks against
Tor. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Privacy in the
Electronic Society (October 2007), pp. 11–20.
[5] B ORISOV , N., D ANEZIS , G., M ITTAL , P., AND TABRIZ , P.
Denial of service or denial of security? In Proceedings of the
14th ACM conference on Computer and communications
security (New Y ork, NY , USA, 2007), CCS ’07, ACM,
pp. 92–102.
[6] D ANEZIS , G. The trafﬁc analysis of continuous-time mixes.
In Proceedings of Privacy Enhancing Technologies workshop
(PET 2004) (May 2004), vol. 3424 of LNCS, pp. 35–50.
[7] D ANEZIS , G., AND SYVERSON , P. Bridging and
Fingerprinting: Epistemic Attacks on Route Selection. In
Proceedings of the Eighth International Symposium on
Privacy Enhancing Technologies (PETS 2008) (Leuven,
Belgium, July 2008), N. Borisov and I. Goldberg, Eds.,
Springer, pp. 133–150.
[8] D INGLEDINE , R. Research problem: better guard rotation
parameters. https://blog.torproject.org/blog/research-
problem-better-guard-rotation-parameters, August 2011.
Accessed May 2012.
[9] D INGLEDINE , R., M ATHEWSON , N., AND SYVERSON , P.
Tor: The second-generation onion router. In Proceedings of
the 13th conference on USENIX Security Symposium-V olume
13 (2004), USENIX Association, pp. 303–320.
[10] E DMAN , M., AND SYVERSON , P. F. AS-awareness in tor
path selection. In Proceedings of the 2009 ACM Conference
on Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2009,
Chicago, Illinois, USA, November 9-13, 2009 (2009),
E. Al-Shaer, S. Jha, and A. D. Keromytis, Eds., ACM,
pp. 380–389.
[11] M URDOCH , S. J., AND WATSON , R. N. M. Metrics for
security and performance in low-latency anonymity
networks. In Proceedings of the Eighth International
Symposium on Privacy Enhancing Technologies (PETS
2008) (Leuven, Belgium, July 2008), N. Borisov and
I. Goldberg, Eds., Springer, pp. 115–132.
[12] M URDOCH , S. J., AND ZIELI ´NSKI , P. Sampled trafﬁc
analysis by internet-exchange-level adversaries. In
Proceedings of the Seventh Workshop on Privacy Enhancing
Technologies (PET 2007) (Ottawa, Canada, June 2007),
N. Borisov and P . Golle, Eds., Springer.
[13] Ø VERLIER , L., AND SYVERSON , P. Locating Hidden
Servers. In Symposium on Security and Privacy (2006),
IEEE, pp. 100–114.
[14] P ERRY, M. Torﬂow: Tor network analysis. HotPETS, 2009.
[15] T HE TOR PROJECT . Tor Directory Protocol, V ersion 3.
https://gitweb.torproject.org/torspec.
git?a=blob_plain;hb=HEAD;f=dir-spec.txt.
Accessed May 2012.
[16] T HE TOR PROJECT . Tor Metrics Portal: Data.
https://metrics.torproject.org/data.
html#performance. Accessed January 2012.
[17] W RIGHT , M., A DLER , M., L EVINE , B., AND SHIELDS , C.
Defending Anonymous Communications against Passive
Logging Attacks. In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on
Security and Privacy (2003), pp. 28–41.
[18] W RIGHT , M., A DLER , M., L EVINE , B., AND SHIELDS , C.
The predecessor attack: An analysis of a threat to anonymous
communications systems. ACM Transactions on Information
and System Security (TISSEC) 7 , 4 (2004), 489–522.