arXiv:cs/0204046v1  [cs.DB]  22 Apr 2002
Optimal Aggregation Algorithms for Middleware
Ronald Fagin∗
Amnon Lotem†
Moni Naor‡
Abstract: Assume that each object in a database has m grades, or scores, one for each of m attributes. For
example, an object can have a color grade, that tells how red i t is, and a shape grade, that tells how round it is.
For each attribute, there is a sorted list, which lists each o bject and its grade under that attribute, sorted by grade
(highest grade ﬁrst). Each object is assigned an overall gra de, that is obtained by combining the attribute grades
using a ﬁxed monotone aggregation function, or combining rule, such as min or average.
To determine the top k objects, that is, k objects with the highest overall grades, the naive algorith m must
access every object in the database, to ﬁnd its grade under ea ch attribute. Fagin has given an algorithm (“Fagin’s
Algorithm”, or FA) that is much more efﬁcient. For some monot one aggregation functions, FA is optimal with
high probability in the worst case.
We analyze an elegant and remarkably simple algorithm (“thethreshold algorithm”, or TA) that is optimal in
a much stronger sense than FA. We show that TA is essentially optimal, not just for some monotone aggregation
functions, but for all of them, and not just in a high-probability worst-case sense, but over every database. Unlike
FA, which requires large buffers (whose size may grow unboun dedly as the database size grows), TA requires
only a small, constant-size buffer. TA allows early stoppin g, which yields, in a precise sense, an approximate
version of the topk answers.
We distinguish two types of access: sorted access (where the middleware system obtains the grade of an
object in some sorted list by proceeding through the list sequentially from the top), and random access (where the
middleware system requests the grade of object in a list, and obtains it in one step). We consider the scenarios
where random access is either impossible, or expensive relative to sorted access, and provide algorithms that are
essentially optimal for these cases as well.
Extended abstract appeared in Proc. Twentieth ACM Symposiu m on Principles of Database
Systems, 2001 (PODS 2001), pp. 102–113.
∗IBM Almaden Research Center, 650 Harry Road, San Jose, California 95120. Email: fagin@almaden.ibm.com
†University of Maryland–College Park, Dept. of Computer Sci ence, College Park, Maryland 20742. Email:
lotem@cs.umd.edu
‡Dept. of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizman n Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel. Email:
naor@wisdom.weizmann.ac.il. The work of this author was performed while a Visiting Scientist at the IBM Almaden
Research Center.

1 Introduction
Early database systems were required to store only small character strings, such as the entries in a tuple
in a traditional relational database. Thus, the data was qui te homogeneous. Today, we wish for our
database systems to be able to deal not only with character strings (both small and large), but also with
a heterogeneous variety of multimedia data (such as images, video, and audio). Furthermore, the data
that we wish to access and combine may reside in a variety of da ta repositories, and we may want our
database system to serve as middleware that can access such data.
One fundamental difference between small character strings and multimedia data is that multimedia
data may have attributes that are inherently fuzzy. For exam ple, we do not say that a given image is
simply either “red” or “not red”. Instead, there is a degree o f redness, which ranges between 0 (not at
all red) and 1 (totally red).
One approach [ ?] to deal with such fuzzy data is to make use of an aggregation function t. If
x1,...,x m (each in the interval[0, 1]) are the grades of objectR under them attributes, thent(x1,...,x m)
is the (overall) grade of objectR. We shall often abuse notation and writet(R) for the gradet(x1,...,x m)
ofR. As we shall discuss, such aggregation functions are useful in other contexts as well. There is a
large literature on choices for the aggregation function (see Zimmermann’s textbook [?] and the discus-
sion in [?]).
One popular choice for the aggregation function is min. In fact, under the standard rules of fuzzy
logic [?], if objectR has gradex1 under attributeA1 andx2 under attributeA2, then the grade under the
fuzzy conjunctionA1 ∧A2 is min(x1,x 2). Another popular aggregation function is the average (or the
sum, in contexts where we do not care if the resulting overall grade no longer lies in the interval [0, 1]).
We say that an aggregation function t is monotone if t(x1,...,x m) ≤ t(x′
1,...,x ′
m) whenever
xi ≤ x′
i for every i. Certainly monotonicity is a reasonable property to demand of an aggregation
function: if for every attribute, the grade of object R′ is at least as high as that of object R, then we
would expect the overall grade ofR′ to be at least as high as that ofR.
The notion of a query is different in a multimedia database sy stem than in a traditional database
system. Given a query in a traditional database system (such as a relational database system), there
is an unordered set of answers. 1 By contrast, in a multimedia database system, the answer to a query
is a “graded” (or “fuzzy”) set [ ?]. A graded set is a set of pairs (x,g ), where x is an object, and g
(the grade) is a real number in the interval [0, 1]. Graded sets are usually presented in sorted order,
sorted by grade. As in [ ?], we shall identify a query with a choice of the aggregation f unctiont. The
user is typically interested in ﬁnding the topk answers, where k is a given parameter (such as k = 1 ,
k = 10, ork = 100). This means that we want to obtain k objects (which we may refer to as the “top
k objects”) with the highest grades on this query, each along with its grade (ties are broken arbitrarily).
For convenience, throughout this paper we will think of k as a constant value, and we will consider
algorithms for obtaining the topk answers in databases that contain at leastk objects.
Other applications: There are other applications besides multimedia databases where we make
use of an aggregation function to combine grades, and where w e want to ﬁnd the top k answers. One
important example is information retrieval [ ?], where the objects R of interest are documents, the m
attributes are search terms s1,...,s m, and the grade xi measures the relevance of document R for
1 Of course, in a relational database, the result to a query may be sorted in some way for convenience in presentation,
such as sorting department members by salary, but logically speaking, the result is still simply a set, with a crisply-de ﬁned
collection of members.
1

search termsi, for 1 ≤i ≤m. It is common to take the aggregation function t to be the sum. That is,
the total relevance score of documentR when the query consists of the search termss1,...,s m is taken
to bet(x1,...,x m) = x1 + · · · +xm.
Another application arises in a paper by Aksoy and Franklin [ ?] on scheduling large-scale on-
demand data broadcast. In this case each object is a page, and there are two ﬁelds. The ﬁrst ﬁeld repre-
sents the amount of time waited by the earliest user requesti ng a page, and the second ﬁeld represents
the number of users requesting a page. They make use of the product functiont witht(x1,x 2) = x1x2,
and they wish to broadcast next the page with the top score.
The model: We assume that each database consists of a ﬁnite set ofobjects. We shall typically take
N to represent the number of objects. Associated with each obj ectR arem ﬁeldsx1,...,x m, where
xi ∈ [0, 1] for each i. We may refer to xi as the ith ﬁeld of R. The database can be thought of as
consisting of a single relation, where one column correspon ds to the object id, and the other columns
correspond tom attributes of the object. Alternatively, the way we shall think of a database in this paper
is as consisting of m sorted listsL1,...,L m, each of length N (there is one entry in each list for each
of theN objects). We may refer to Li as listi. Each entry of Li is of the form (R,x i), wherexi is the
ith ﬁeld of R. Each list Li is sorted in descending order by the xi value. We take this simple view of
a database, since this view is all that is relevant, as far as o ur algorithms are concerned. We are taking
into account only access costs, and ignoring internal computation costs. Thus, in practice it might well
be expensive to compute the ﬁeld values, but we ignore this issue here, and take the ﬁeld values as being
given.
We consider two modes of access to data. The ﬁrst mode of acces s is sorted (or sequential) access.
Here the middleware system obtains the grade of an object in o ne of the sorted lists by proceeding
through the list sequentially from the top. Thus, if objectR has theℓth highest grade in theith list, then
ℓ sorted accesses to the ith list are required to see this grade under sorted access. Th e second mode of
access is random access. Here, the middleware system requests the grade of objectR in theith list, and
obtains it in one random access. If there are s sorted accesses and r random accesses, then the sorted
access cost isscS, the random access cost isrcR, and the middleware cost isscS +rcR (the sum of the
sorted access cost and the random access cost), for some positive constantscS andcR.
Algorithms: There is an obvious naive algorithm for obtaining the top k answers. Under sorted
access, it looks at every entry in each of them sorted lists, computes (usingt) the overall grade of every
object, and returns the top k answers. The naive algorithm has linear middleware cost (li near in the
database size), and thus is not efﬁcient for a large database.
Fagin [?] introduced an algorithm (“Fagin’s Algorithm”, or FA), which often does much better than
the naive algorithm. In the case where the orderings in the sorted lists are probabilistically independent,
FA ﬁnds the topk answers, over a database withN objects, with middleware costO(N (m−1)/mk1/m),
with arbitrarily high probability. 2 Fagin also proved that under this independence assumption, along
with an assumption on the aggregation function, every corre ct algorithm must, with high probability,
incur a similar middleware cost in the worst case.
We shall present the “threshold algorithm”, or TA. This algorithm was discovered independently by
(at least) three groups, including Nepal and Ramakrishna [ ?] (who were the ﬁrst to publish), G¨ untzer,
Balke, and Kiessling [ ?], and ourselves. 3 For more information and comparison, see Section 10 on
2We shall not discuss the probability model here, including the notion of “independence”, since it is off track. For details,
see [?].
3Our second author ﬁrst deﬁned TA, and did extensive simulati ons comparing it to FA, as a project in a database course
2

related work.
We shall show that TA is optimal in a much stronger sense than F A. We now deﬁne this notion of
optimality, which we consider to be interesting in its own right.
Instance optimality: Let A be a class of algorithms, letD be a class of databases, and letcost(A, D)
be the middleware cost incurred by running algorithm A over database D. We say that an algorithm B
is instance optimal over A and D if B ∈ A and if for every A ∈ A and every D ∈ D we have
cost(B, D) = O(cost(A, D)). (1)
Equation (1) means that there are constantsc andc′ such that cost(B, D) ≤c · cost(A, D) +c′ for every
choice of A ∈ A and D ∈ D. We refer to c as the optimality ratio. Intuitively, instance optimality
corresponds to optimality in every instance, as opposed to j ust the worst case or the average case.
FA is optimal in a high-probability worst-case sense under c ertain assumptions. TA is optimal in a
much stronger sense, and without any underlying probabilistic model or probabilistic assumptions: it is
instance optimal, for several natural choices of A and D. In particular, instance optimality holds when
A is taken to be the class of algorithms that would normally be implemented in practice (since the only
algorithms that are excluded are those that make very lucky guesses), and when D is taken to be the class
of all databases. Instance optimality of TA holds in this case for all monotone aggregation functions. By
contrast, high-probability worst-case optimality of FA ho lds only under the assumption of “strictness”
(we shall deﬁne strictness later; intuitively, it means that the aggregation function is representing some
notion of conjunction).
Approximation and early stopping: There are times when the user may be satisﬁed with an ap-
proximate topk list. Assumeθ >1. Deﬁne a θ-approximation to the topk answers for the aggregation
functiont to be a collection ofk objects (each along with its grade) such that for eachy among thesek
objects and each z not among these k objects,θt(y) ≥ t(z). Note that the same deﬁnition with θ = 1
gives the top k answers. We show how to modify TA to give such a θ-approximation (and prove the
instance optimality of this modiﬁed algorithm under certain assumptions). In fact, we can easily modify
TA into an interactive process where at all times the system can show the user its current view of the top
k list along with a guarantee about the degree θ of approximation to the correct answer. At any time,
the user can decide, based on this guarantee, whether he would like to stop the process.
Restricting random access: As we shall discuss in Section 2, there are some systems whererandom
access is impossible. To deal with such situations, we show in Section 8.1 how to modify TA to obtain an
algorithm NRA (“no random accesses”) that does no random accesses. We prove that NRA is instance
optimal over all algorithms that do not make random accesses and over all databases.
What about situations where random access is not impossible , but simply expensive? Wimmers et
al. [?] discuss a number of systems issues that can cause random acc ess to be expensive. Although
TA is instance optimal, the optimality ratio depends on the r atiocR/cS of the cost of a single random
access to the cost of a single sorted access. We deﬁne another algorithm that is a combination of TA
and NRA, and call it CA (“combined algorithm”). The deﬁnitio n of the algorithm depends on cR/cS.
The motivation is to obtain an algorithm that is not only inst ance optimal, but whose optimality ratio
is independent of cR/cS. Our original hope was that CA would be instance optimal (wit h optimality
ratio independent of cR/cS) in those scenarios where TA is instance optimal. Not only do es this hope
fail, but interestingly enough, we prove that there does not exist any deterministic algorithm, or even
taught by Michael Franklin at the University of Maryland–College Park, in the Fall of 1997.
3

probabilistic algorithm that does not make a mistake, with o ptimality ratio independent of cR/cS in
these scenarios! However, we ﬁnd a new natural scenario where CA is instance optimal, with optimality
ratio independent ofcR/cS.
Outline of paper: In Section 2, we discuss modes of access (sorted and random) t o data. In Sec-
tion 3, we present FA (Fagin’s Algorithm) and its properties. In Section 4, we present TA (the Threshold
Algorithm). In Section 5, we deﬁne instance optimality, and compare it with related notions, such as
competitiveness. In Section 6, we show that TA is instance op timal in several natural scenarios. In the
most important scenario, we show that the optimality ratio of TA is best possible. In Section 6.1, we dis-
cuss the dependence of the optimality ratio on various parameters. In Section 6.2, we show how to turn
TA into an approximation algorithm, and prove instance opti mality among approximation algorithms.
We also show how the user can prematurely halt TA and in a preci se sense, treat its current view of
the topk answers as an approximate answer. In Section 7, we consider situations (suggested by Bruno,
Gravano, and Marian [?]) where sorted access is impossible for certain of the sorted lists. In Section 8,
we focus on situations where random accesses are either impo ssible or expensive. In Section 8.1 we
present NRA (No Random Access algorithm), and show its insta nce optimality among algorithms that
make no random accesses. Further, we show that the optimalit y ratio of NRA is best possible. In Sec-
tion 8.2 we present CA (Combined Algorithm), which is a result of combining TA and NRA in order to
obtain an algorithm that, intuitively, minimizes random accesses. In Section 8.3, we show instance op-
timality of CA, with an optimality ratio independent ofcR/cS, in a natural scenario. In Section 8.4, we
show that the careful choice made by CA of which random access es to make is necessary for instance
optimality with an optimality ratio independent ofcR/cS. We also compare and contrast CA versus TA.
In Section 9, we prove various lower bounds on the optimality ratio, both for deterministic algorithms
and for probabilistic algorithms that never make a mistake. We summarize our upper and lower bounds
in Section 9.1. In Section 10 we discuss related work. In Section 11, we give our conclusions, and state
some open problems.
2 Modes of Access to Data
Issues of efﬁcient query evaluation in a middleware system are very different from those in a traditional
database system. This is because the middleware system rece ives answers to queries from various
subsystems, which can be accessed only in limited ways. What do we assume about the interface
between a middleware system and a subsystem? Let us considerQBIC4 [?] (“Query By Image Content”)
as a subsystem. QBIC can search for images by various visual c haracteristics such as color and texture
(and an experimental version can search also by shape). In re sponse to a query, such as Color=‘red’,
the subsystem will output the graded set consisting of all objects, one by one, each along with its grade
under the query, in sorted order based on grade, until the middleware system tells the subsystem to halt.
Then the middleware system could later tell the subsystem to resume outputting the graded set where
it left off. Alternatively, the middleware system could ask the subsystem for, say, the top 10 objects in
sorted order, each along with its grade. then request the nex t 10, etc. In both cases, this corresponds to
what we have referred to as “sorted access”.
There is another way that we might expect the middleware syst em to interact with the subsystem.
Speciﬁcally, the middleware system might ask the subsystem for the grade (with respect to a query)
4QBIC is a trademark of IBM Corporation.
4

of any given object. This corresponds to what we have referre d to as “random access”. In fact, QBIC
allows both sorted and random access.
There are some situations where the middleware system is not allowed random access to some
subsystem. An example might occur when the middleware syste m is a text retrieval system, and the
subsystems are search engines. Thus, there does not seem to b e a way to ask a major search engine on
the web for its internal score on some document of our choice under a query.
Our measure of cost corresponds intuitively to the cost incu rred by the middleware system in pro-
cessing information passed to it from a subsystem such as QBIC. As before, if there ares sorted accesses
andr random accesses, then the middleware cost is taken to bescS +rcR, for some positive constants
cS andcR. The fact thatcS andcR may be different reﬂects the fact that the cost to a middleware system
of a sorted access and of a random access may be different.
3 Fagin’s Algorithm
In this section, we discuss FA (Fagin’s Algorithm) [ ?].This algorithm is implemented in Garlic [ ?],
an experimental IBM middleware system; see [ ?] for interesting details about the implementation and
performance in practice. Chaudhuri and Gravano [ ?] consider ways to simulate FA by using “ﬁlter
conditions”, which might say, for example, that the color score is at least 0.2.5 FA works as follows.
1. Do sorted access in parallel to each of the m sorted listsLi. (By “in parallel”, we mean that we
access the top member of each of the lists under sorted access, then we access the second member
of each of the lists, and so on.) 6 Wait until there are at leastk “matches”, that is, wait until there
is a setH of at leastk objects such that each of these objects has been seen in each of them lists.
2. For each object R that has been seen, do random access as needed to each of the li stsLi to ﬁnd
theith ﬁeldxi ofR.
3. Compute the grade t(R) = t(x1,...,x m) for each object R that has been seen. Let Y be a set
containing thek objects that have been seen with the highest grades (ties are broken arbitrarily).
The output is then the graded set {(R,t (R)) |R ∈Y }.
It is fairly easy to show [?] that this algorithm is correct for monotone aggregation functionst (that
is, that the algorithm successfully ﬁnds the top k answers). If there are N objects in the database, and
if the orderings in the sorted lists are probabilistically i ndependent, then the middleware cost of FA is
O(N (m−1)/mk1/m), with arbitrarily high probability [?].
An aggregation function t is strict [?] if t(x1,...,x m) = 1 holds precisely when xi = 1 for
everyi. Thus, an aggregation function is strict if it takes on the maximal value of 1 precisely when each
argument takes on this maximal value. We would certainly expect an aggregation function representing
5Chaudhuri and Gravano originally saw an early version of theconference paper (in the 1996 ACM Symposium on Princi-
ples of Database Systems) that expanded into the journal version [?].
6It is not actually important that the lists be accessed “in lockstep”. In practice, it may be convenient to allow the sorted lists
to be accessed at different rates, in batches, etc. Each of the algorithms in this paper where there is “sorted access in parallel”
remain correct even when sorted access is not in lockstep. Furthermore, all of our instance optimality results continue to hold
even when sorted access is not in lockstep, as long as the rate s of sorted access of the lists are within constant multiples of
each other.
5

the conjunction to be strict (see the discussion in [ ?]). In fact, it is reasonable to think of strictness as
being a key characterizing feature of the conjunction.
Fagin shows that his algorithm is optimal with high probability in the worst case if the aggregation
function is strict (so that, intuitively, we are dealing wit h a notion of conjunction), and if the orderings
in the sorted lists are probabilistically independent. In f act, the access pattern of FA is oblivious to the
choice of aggregation function, and so for each ﬁxed database, the middleware cost of FA is exactly the
same no matter what the aggregation function is. This is true even for a constant aggregation function;
in this case, of course, there is a trivial algorithm that gives us the topk answers (anyk objects will do)
withO(1) middleware cost. So FA is not optimal in any sense for some monotone aggregation functions
t. As a more interesting example, when the aggregation function is max (which is not strict), it is shown
in [?] that there is a simple algorithm that makes at most mk sorted accesses and no random accesses
that ﬁnds the topk answers. By contrast, as we shall see, the algorithm TA is instance optimal for every
monotone aggregation function, under very weak assumptions.
Even in the cases where FA is optimal, this optimality holds only in the worst case, with high proba-
bility. This leaves open the possibility that there are some algorithms that have much better middleware
cost than FA over certain databases. The algorithm TA, whichwe now discuss, is such an algorithm.
4 The Threshold Algorithm
We now present the threshold algorithm (TA).
1. Do sorted access in parallel to each of the m sorted listsLi. As an object R is seen under sorted
access in some list, do random access to the other lists to ﬁnd the grade xi of object R in every
listLi.7 Then compute the gradet(R) = t(x1,...,x m) of objectR. If this grade is one of the k
highest we have seen, then remember object R and its grade t(R) (ties are broken arbitrarily, so
that onlyk objects and their grades need to be remembered at any time).
2. For each list Li, letxi be the grade of the last object seen under sorted access. Deﬁne the threshold
valueτ to bet(x1,...,x m). As soon as at least k objects have been seen whose grade is at least
equal toτ, then halt.
3. Let Y be a set containing thek objects that have been seen with the highest grades. The output is
then the graded set {(R,t (R)) |R ∈Y }.
We now show that TA is correct for each monotone aggregation functiont.
Theorem 4.1: If the aggregation functiont is monotone, then TA correctly ﬁnds the topk answers.
Proof: LetY be as in Step 3 of TA. We need only show that every member of Y has at least as high a
grade as every objectz not inY . By deﬁnition of Y , this is the case for each objectz that has been seen
in running TA. So assume that z was not seen. Assume that the ﬁelds of z arex1,...,x m. Therefore,
xi ≤xi, for everyi. Hence, t(z) = t(x1,...,x m) ≤t(x1,...,x m) = τ, where the inequality follows
7It may seem wasteful to do random access to ﬁnd a grade that was already determined earlier. As we discuss later, this is
done in order to avoid unbounded buffers.
6

by monotonicity oft. But by deﬁnition of Y , for everyy inY we havet(y) ≥τ. Therefore, for everyy
inY we havet(y) ≥τ ≥t(z), as desired.
We now show that the stopping rule for TA always occurs at leas t as early as the stopping rule for
FA (that is, with no more sorted accesses than FA). In FA, if R is an object that has appeared under
sorted access in every list, then by monotonicity, the grade ofR is at least equal to the threshold value.
Therefore, when there are at least k objects, each of which has appeared under sorted access in ev ery
list (the stopping rule for FA), there are at least k objects whose grade is at least equal to the threshold
value (the stopping rule for TA).
This implies that for every database, the sorted access cost for TA is at most that of FA. This does
not imply that the middleware cost for TA is always at most that of FA, since TA may do more random
accesses than FA. However, since the middleware cost of TA is at most the sorted access cost times a
constant (independent of the database size), it does follow that the middleware cost of TA is at most a
constant times that of FA. In fact, we shall show that TA is instance optimal, under natural assumptions.
We now consider the intuition behind TA. For simplicity, we d iscuss ﬁrst the case where k = 1 ,
that is, where the user is trying to determine the top answer. Assume that we are at a stage in the
algorithm where we have not yet seen any object whose (overall) grade is at least as big as the threshold
valueτ. The intuition is that at this point, we do not know the top ans wer, since the next object we see
under sorted access could have overall grade τ, and hence bigger than the grade of any object seen so
far. Furthermore, once we do see an object whose grade is at le astτ, then it is safe to halt, as we see
from the proof of Theorem 4.1. Thus, intuitively, the stoppi ng rule of TA says: “Halt as soon as you
know you have seen the top answer.” Similarly, for generalk, the stopping rule of TA says, intuitively,
“Halt as soon as you know you have seen the top k answers.” So we could consider TA as being an
implementation of the following “program”:
Do sorted access (and the corresponding random access) until you know you have seen the topk
answers.
This very high–level “program” is a knowledge–based program [?]. In fact, TA was designed by
thinking in terms of this knowledge-based program. The fact that TA corresponds to this knowledge–
based program is what is behind instance optimality of TA.
Later, we shall give other scenarios (situations where rand om accesses are either impossible or
expensive) where we implement the following more general knowledge–based program:
Gather what information you need to allow you to know the topk answers, and then halt.
In each of our scenarios, the implementation of this second knowledge-based program is different. When
we consider the scenario where random accesses are expensiv e relative to sorted accesses, but are not
impossible, we need an additional design principle to decide how to gather the information, in order to
design an instance optimal algorithm.
The next theorem, which follows immediately from the deﬁnit ion of TA, gives a simple but impor-
tant property of TA that further distinguishes TA from FA.
Theorem 4.2: TA requires only bounded buffers, whose size is independentof the size of the database.
7

Proof: Other than a little bit of bookkeeping, all that TA must remember is the current topk objects and
their grades, and (pointers to) the last objects seen in sorted order in each list.
By contrast, FA requires buffers that grow arbitrarily larg e as the database grows, since FA must
remember every object it has seen in sorted order in every list, in order to check for matching objects in
the various lists.
There is a price to pay for the bounded buffers. Thus, for every time an object is found under sorted
access, TA may do m − 1 random accesses (where m is the number of lists), to ﬁnd the grade of the
object in the other lists. This is in spite of the fact that thi s object may have already been seen in these
other lists.
5 Instance optimality
In order to compare instance optimality with other notions from the literature, we generalize slightly the
deﬁnition from that given in the introduction. Let A be a class of algorithms, and let D be a class of
legal inputs to the algorithms. We assume that we are considering a particular nonnegative performance
cost measure cost(A, D), which represents the amount of a resource consumed by running the algorithm
A ∈ A on input D ∈ D. This cost could be the running time of algorithm A on input D, or in this paper,
the middleware cost incurred by running algorithm A over database D.
We say that an algorithm B is instance optimal over A and D if B ∈ A and if for every A ∈ A and
every D ∈ D we have
cost(B, D) = O(cost(A, D)). (2)
Equation (2) means that there are constantsc andc′ such that cost(B, D) ≤c · cost(A, D) +c′ for every
choice of A ∈ A and D ∈ D. We refer to c as the optimality ratio. It is similar to the competitive ratio
in competitive analysis (we shall discuss competitive anal ysis shortly). We use the word “optimal” to
reﬂect that fact that B is essentially the best algorithm in A.
Intuitively, instance optimality corresponds to optimali ty in every instance, as opposed to just the
worst case or the average case. There are many algorithms tha t are optimal in a worst-case sense, but
are not instance optimal. An example is binary search: in the worst case, binary search is guaranteed to
require no more than logN probes, forN data items. However, for each instance, a positive answer can
be obtained in one probe, and a negative answer in two probes.
We consider a nondeterministic algorithm correct if on no br anch does it make a mistake. We take
the middleware cost of a nondeterministic algorithm to be th e minimal cost over all branches where it
halts with the topk answers. We take the middleware cost of a probabilistic algorithm to be the expected
cost (over all probabilistic choices by the algorithm). Whe n we say that a deterministic algorithm B
is instance optimal over A and D, then we are really comparing B against the best nondeterministic
algorithm, even if A contains only deterministic algorithms. This is because fo r each D ∈ D, there is
always a deterministic algorithm that makes the same choice s on D as the nondeterministic algorithm.
We can view the cost of the best nondeterministic algorithm that produces the topk answers over a given
database as the cost of the shortest proof for that database t hat these are really the top k answers. So
instance optimality is quite strong: the cost of an instanceoptimal algorithm is essentially the cost of the
shortest proof. Similarly, we can view A as if it contains also probabilistic algorithms that never m ake
a mistake. For convenience, in our proofs we shall always ass ume that A contains only deterministic
8

algorithms, since the results carry over automatically to nondeterministic algorithms and to probabilistic
algorithms that never make a mistake.
The deﬁnition we have given for instance optimality is forma lly the same deﬁnition as is used in
competitive analysis [?, ?], except that in competitive analysis, (1) we do not assume t hat B ∈ A, and
(2) cost(A, D) does not typically represent a performance cost. In competi tive analysis, typically (a) D
is a class of instances of a particular problem, (b)A is the class of ofﬂine algorithms that give a solution
to the instances in D, (c) cost(A, D) is a number that represents the goodness of the solution (whe re
bigger numbers correspond to a worse solution), and (d) B is a particular online algorithm. In this case,
the online algorithm B is said to be competitive. The intuition is that a competitive online algorithm
may perform poorly in some instances, but only on instances w here every ofﬂine algorithm would also
perform poorly.
Another example where the framework of instance optimality appears, but again without the as-
sumption that B ∈ A, and again where cost(A, D) does not represent a performance cost, is in the
context of approximation algorithms [?]. In this case, (a) D is a class of instances of a particular prob-
lem, (b) A is the class of algorithms that solve the instances in D exactly (in cases of interest, these
algorithms are not polynomial-time algorithms), (c) cost(A, D) is the value of the resulting answer
when algorithm A is applied to input D, and (d) B is a particular polynomial-time algorithm.
Dagum et al. [?] give an interesting example of what we would call an instanc e optimal algorithm.
They consider the problem of determining the mean of an unkno wn random variable by Monte Carlo
estimation. In their case, (a) D is the class of random variables distributed in the interval [0, 1], (b) A
is the class of algorithms that, by repeatedly doing indepen dent evaluations of a random variable and
then averaging the results, obtain an estimate of the mean of the random variable to within a given
precision with a given probability, (c) cost(A, D) is the expected number of independent evaluations
of the random variable D under algorithm A, and (d) B is their algorithm, which they call AA for
“approximation algorithm”. Their main result says, in our t erminology, that AA is instance optimal
over A and D.
Demaine et al. [?] give an example of an algorithm that is close to instance optimal. They consider
the problem of ﬁnding the intersection, union, or differenc e of a collection of sorted sets. In their case,
(a) D is the class of instances of collections of sorted sets, (b) A is the class of algorithms that do
pairwise comparisons among elements, (c) cost(A, D) is the running time (number of comparisons) in
running algorithm A on instance D, and (d) B is their algorithm. In a certain sense, their algorithm is
close to what we would call instance optimal (to explain the details would take us too far astray).
6 Instance Optimality of the Threshold Algorithm
In this section, we investigate the instance optimality of T A. We begin with an intuitive argument that
TA is instance optimal. If A is an algorithm that stops sooner than TA on some database, be fore A
ﬁnds k objects whose grade is at least equal to the threshold value τ, then A must make a mistake on
some database, since the next object in each list might have gradexi in each listi, and hence have grade
t(x1,...,x m) = τ. This new object, which A has not even seen, has a higher grade than some object in
the topk list that was output by A, and so A erred by stopping too soon. We would like to convert this
intuitive argument into a proof that for every monotone aggr egation function, TA is instance optimal
over all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the topk answers, over the class of all databases. However, as we
9

shall see, the situation is actually somewhat delicate. We ﬁrst make a distinction between algorithms that
“make wild guesses” (that is, perform random access on objec ts not previously encountered by sorted
access) and those that do not. (Neither FA nor TA make wild guesses, nor does any “natural” algorithm
in our context.) Our ﬁrst theorem (Theorem 6.1) says that for every monotone aggregation function, TA
is instance optimal over all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd t he topk answers and that do not make wild
guesses, over the class of all databases. We then show that this distinction (wild guesses vs. no wild
guesses) is essential: if algorithms that make wild guesses are allowed in the class A of algorithms that
an instance optimal algorithm must compete against, thenno algorithm is instance optimal (Example 6.3
and Theorem 6.4). The heart of this example (and the corresponding theorem) is the fact that there may
be multiple objects with the same grade in some list. Indeed, once we restrict our attention to databases
where no two objects have the same value in the same list, and make a slight, natural additional restric-
tion on the aggregation function beyond monotonicity, then TA is instance optimal over all algorithms
that correctly ﬁnd the topk answers (Theorem 6.5).
In Section 6.2 we consider instance optimality in the situation where we relax the problem of ﬁnding
the topk objects into ﬁnding approximately the topk.
We now give our ﬁrst positive result on instance optimality of TA. We say that an algorithm makes
wild guesses if it does random access to ﬁnd the grade of some objectR in some list before the algorithm
has seenR under sorted access. That is, an algorithm makes wild guesses if the ﬁrst grade that it obtains
for some object R is under random access. We would not normally implement algo rithms that make
wild guesses. In fact, there are some contexts where it would not even be possible to make wild guesses
(such as a database context where the algorithm could not know the name of an object it has not already
seen). However, making a lucky wild guess can help, as we show later (Example 6.3).
We now show instance optimality of TA among algorithms that d o not make wild guesses. In this
theorem, when we take D to be the class of all databases, we really mean that D is the class of all
databases that involve sorted lists corresponding to the arguments of the aggregation functiont. We are
takingk (where we are trying to ﬁnd the topk answers) and the aggregation functiont to be ﬁxed. Since
we are takingt to be ﬁxed, we are thereby taking the number m of arguments oft (that is, the number
of sorted lists) to be ﬁxed. In Section 6.1, we discuss the assumptions thatk andm are constant.
Theorem 6.1: Assume that the aggregation functiont is monotone. Let D be the class of all databases.
Let A be the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the top k answers for t for every database and
that do not make wild guesses. Then TA is instance optimal over A and D.
Proof: Assume that A ∈ A, and that algorithm A is run over database D. Assume that algorithm
A halts at depth d (that is, if di is the number of objects seen under sorted access to list i, for 1 ≤
i ≤ m, then d = max idi). Assume that A seesa distinct objects (some possibly multiple times). In
particular,a ≥ d. Since A makes no wild guesses, and sees a distinct objects, it must make at least a
sorted accesses, and so its middleware cost is at least acS. We shall show that TA halts on D by depth
a +k. Hence, the middleware cost of TA is at most (a +k)mcS + (a +k)m(m − 1)cR, which is
amcS +am(m − 1)cR plus an additive constant ofkmcS +km(m − 1)cR. So the optimality ratio of
TA is at most amcS +am(m−1)cR
acS
=m +m(m − 1)cR/cS. (Later, we shall show that if the aggregation
function is strict, then this is precisely the optimality ratio of TA, and this is best possible.)
Note that for each choice ofd′, the algorithm TA sees at leastd′ objects by depthd′ (this is because
by depthd′ it has mademd′ sorted accesses, and each object is accessed at most m times under sorted
10

access). Let Y be the output set of A (consisting of the top k objects). If there are at most k objects
that A does not see, then TA halts by deptha +k (after having seen every object), and we are done. So
assume that there are at leastk + 1 objects that A does not see. SinceY is of sizek, there is some object
V that A does not see and that is not inY .
LetτA be the threshold value when algorithm A halts. This means that if xi is the grade of the last
object seen under sorted access to list i for algorithm A, for 1 ≤i ≤m, thenτA =t(x1,...,x m). (If
listi is not accessed under sorted access, we takexi = 1.) Let us call an objectR big ift(R) ≥τA, and
otherwise call objectR small.
We now show that every memberR ofY is big. Deﬁne a database D′ to be just like D, except that
objectV has gradexi in theith list, for 1 ≤ i ≤ m. Put V in listi below all other objects with grade
xi in listi (for 1 ≤ i ≤ m). Algorithm A performs exactly the same, and in particular gives the same
output, for databases D and D′. Therefore, algorithm A hasR, but notV , in its output for database D′.
Since the grade ofV in D′ isτA, it follows by correctness of A thatR is big, as desired.
There are now two cases, depending on whether or not algorithm A sees every member of its output
setY .8
Case 1: Algorithm A sees every member ofY . Then by depth d, TA will see every member ofY .
Since, as we showed, each member of Y is big, it follows that TA halts by depth d ≤ a < a+k, as
desired.
Case 2: Algorithm A does not see some member R ofY . We now show that every object R′ that
is not seen by A must be big. Deﬁne a database D′ that is just like D on every object seen by A. Let
the grade of V in list i be xi, and put V in list i below all other objects with grade xi in list i (for
1 ≤ i ≤ m). Therefore, the grade of V in database D′ isτA. Since A cannot distinguish between D
and D′, it has the same output on D and D′. Since A does not see R and does not see R′, it has no
information to distinguish betweenR andR′. Therefore, it must have been able to giveR′ in its output
without making a mistake. But ifR′ is in the output and notV , then by correctness of A, it follows that
R′ is big. SoR′ is big, as desired.
Since A seesa objects, and since TA sees at least a +k objects by depth a +k, it follows that by
deptha +k, TA sees at leastk objects not seen by A. We have shown that every object that is not seen
by A is big. Therefore, by depth a +k, TA sees at leastk big objects. So TA halts by depth a +k, as
desired.
The next result is a corollary of the proof of Theorem 6.1 and o f a lower bound in Section 9 (all
of our results on lower bounds appear in Section 9). Speciﬁca lly, in the proof of Theorem 6.1, we
showed that under the assumptions of Theorem 6.1 (no wild gue sses), the optimality ratio of TA is at
most m +m(m − 1)cR/cS. The next result says that if the aggregation function is str ict, then the
optimality ratio is precisely this value, and this is best possible. Recall that an aggregation function t is
strict if t(x1,...,x m) = 1 holds precisely when xi = 1 for everyi. Intuitively, strictness means that
the aggregation function is representing some notion of conjunction.
Corollary 6.2: Lett be an arbitrary monotone, strict aggregation function withm arguments. Let D be
the class of all databases. Let A be the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the topk answers fort
for every database and that do not make wild guesses. Then TA is instance optimal over A and D, with
optimality ratiom +m(m − 1)cR/cS. No deterministic algorithm has a lower optimality ratio.
8For the sake of generality, we are allowing the possibility t hat algorithm A can output an object that it has not seen. We
discuss this issue more in Section 6.1.
11

L1
(1, 1)
(2, 1)
(3, 1)
. . .
(n + 1, 1)
(n + 2, 0)
(n + 3, 0)
. . .
(2n + 1, 0)
L2
(2n + 1, 1)
(2n, 1)
(2n − 1, 1)
. . .
(n + 1, 1)
(n, 0)
(n − 1, 0)
. . .
(1, 0)
Figure 1: Database for Example 6.3
Proof: In the proof of Theorem 6.1, it is shown that TA has an optimality ratio of at mostm +m(m −
1)cR/cS for an arbitrary monotone aggregation function, The lower b ound follows from Theorem 9.1.
We cannot drop the assumption of strictness in Corollary 6.2 . For example, let the aggregation
function be max (which is not strict). It is easy to see that TA halts afterk rounds of sorted access, and
its optimality ratio ism (which, we might add, is best possible for max).9
What if we were to consider only the sorted access cost? This c orresponds to takingcR = 0. Then
we see from Corollary 6.2 that the optimality ratio of TA is m. Furthermore, it follows easily from the
proof of Theorem 9.1 that if the aggregation function is stri ct, and ifcR = 0, then this is best possible:
no deterministic algorithm has a lower optimality ratio thanm.10
What if we were to consider only the random access cost? This c orresponds to taking cS = 0 . In
this case, TA is far from instance optimal. The naive algorithm, which does sorted access to every object
in every list, does no random accesses, and so has a sorted access cost of 0.
We now show that making a lucky wild guess can help.
Example 6.3 :Assume that there are2n+1 objects, which we will call simply1, 2,..., 2n+1, and there
are two listsL1 andL2 (see Figure 1). Assume that in listL1, the objects are in the order 1, 2,..., 2n +
1, where the top n + 1 objects 1, 2,...,n + 1 all have grade 1, and the remaining n objects n +
2,n + 3,..., 2n + 1 all have grade 0. Assume that in list L2, the objects are in the reverse order
2n + 1, 2n,..., 1, where the bottomn objects 1,...,n all have grade 0, and the remainingn + 1 objects
n + 1,n + 2,..., 2n + 1 all have grade 1. Assume that the aggregation function is min , and that we
are interested in ﬁnding the top answer (i.e., k = 1). It is clear that the top answer is object n + 1 with
overall grade 1 (every object except objectn + 1 has overall grade 0).
An algorithm that makes a wild guess and asks for the grade of o bject n + 1 in both lists would
determine the correct answer and be able to halt safely after two random accesses and no sorted ac-
9 Note that the instance optimality of TA, as given by Theorem 6.1, holds whether or not the aggregation function is strict.
For example, the instance optimality of TA as given by Theorem 6.1 holds even when the aggregation function is max. This is
in contrast to the situation with FA, where high-probability worst-case optimality fails when the aggregation function is max.
Corollary 6.2 makes use of the assumption of strictness only in order to show that the optimality ratio of TA is then precisely
m + m(m − 1)cR/c S, and that this is best possible.
10We are assuming in this paper that cR and cS are both strictly positive. However, Corollary 6.2 and the p roof of Theo-
rem 9.1 would still hold if we were to allow cR to be 0.
12

cesses.11 However, let A be any algorithm (such as TA) that does not make wild guesses. Since the
winning objectn + 1 is in the middle of both sorted lists, it follows that at least n + 1 sorted accesses
would be required before algorithm A would even see the winning object.
What if we were to enlarge the classA of algorithms to allow queries of the form “Which object has
theith largest grade in listj, and what is its grade in list j?” We then see from Example 6.3, where we
replace the wild guess by the query that asks for the object with the (n + 1)st largest grade in each list,
that TA is not instance optimal. Effectively, these new queries are “just as bad” as wild guesses.
Example 6.3 shows that TA is not instance optimal over the cla ss A of all algorithms that ﬁnd the
top answer for min (with two arguments) and the class D of all databases. The next theorem says that
under these circumstances, not only is TA not instance optimal, but neither is any algorithm.
Theorem 6.4 :Let D be the class of all databases. Let A be the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd
the top answer for min (with two arguments) for every databas e. There is no deterministic algorithm
(or even probabilistic algorithm that never makes a mistake) that is instance optimal over A and D.
Proof: Let us modify Example 6.3 to obtain a family of databases, each with two sorted lists. The ﬁrst
list has the objects 1, 2,..., 2n + 1 in some order, with the top n + 1 objects having grade 1, and the
remaining n objects having grade 0. The second list has the objects in the reverse order, again with
the top n + 1 objects having grade 1, and the remaining n objects having grade 0. As before, there
is a unique object with overall grade 1 (namely, the object in the middle of both orderings), and every
remaining object has overall grade 0.
Let A be an arbitrary deterministic algorithm inA. Consider the following distribution on databases:
each member is as above, and the ordering of the ﬁrst list is ch osen uniformly at random (with the
ordering of the second list the reverse of the ordering of the ﬁrst list). It is easy to see that the expected
number of accesses (sorted and random together) of algorithm A under this distribution in order to even
see the winning object is at leastn+1. Since there must be some database where the number of accesses
is at least equal to the expected number of accesses, the numb er of accesses on this database is at least
n + 1. However, as in Example 6.3, there is an algorithm that makes only 2 random accesses and no
sorted accesses. Therefore, the optimality ratio can be arb itrarily large. The theorem follows (in the
deterministic case).
For probabilistic algorithms that never make a mistake, we a ppeal to Yao’s Minimax Principle [?]
(see also [?, Section 2.2], and see [?, Lemma 4] for a simple proof), which says that the expected cost of
the optimal deterministic algorithm for an arbitrary input distribution is a lower bound on the expected
cost of the optimal probabilistic algorithm that never makes a mistake.
Although, as we noted earlier, algorithms that make wild gue sses would not normally be imple-
mented in practice, it is still interesting to consider them . This is because of our interpretation of
instance optimality of an algorithm A as saying that its cost is essentially the same as the cost of t he
shortest proof for that database that these are really the to pk answers. If we consider algorithms that
11The algorithm could halt safely, since it “knows” that it has found an object with the maximal possible grade of 1 (this
grade is maximal, since we are assuming that all grades lie be tween 0 and 1). Even if we did not assume that all grades lie
between 0 and 1, one sorted access to either list would provid e the information that each overall grade in the database is a t
most 1.
13

allow wild guesses, then we are allowing a larger class of pro ofs. Thus, in Example 6.3, the fact that
objectn + 1 has (overall) grade 1 is a proof that it is the top answer.
We say that an aggregation function t is strictly monotone 12 if t(x1,...,x m) < t(x′
1,...,x ′
m)
wheneverxi < x′
i for everyi. Although average and min are strictly monotone, there are a ggregation
functions suggested in the literature for representing conjunction and disjunction that are monotone but
not strictly monotone (see [?] and [?] for examples). We say that a database D satisﬁes the distinctness
property if for eachi, no two objects in D have the same grade in listLi, that is, if the grades in list Li
are distinct. We now show that these conditions guarantee optimality of TA even among algorithms that
make wild guesses.
Theorem 6.5: Assume that the aggregation function t is strictly monotone. Let D be the class of all
databases that satisfy the distinctness property. Let A be the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd
the topk answers fort for every database in D. Then TA is instance optimal over A and D.
Proof: Assume that A ∈ A, and that algorithm A is run over database D ∈ D. Assume that A sees
a distinct objects (some possibly multiple times). We shall s how that TA halts on D by depth a +k.
Hence, TA makes at mostm2(a+k) accesses, which ism2a plus an additive constant ofm2k. It follows
easily that the optimality ratio of TA is at mostcm2, wherec = max {cR/cS,c S/cR}.
If there are at most k objects that A does not see, then TA halts by depth a +k (after having seen
every object), and we are done. So assume that there are at leastk + 1 objects that A does not see. Since
Y is of size k, there is some object V that A does not see and that is not in Y . We shall show that TA
halts on D by deptha + 1.
Letτ be the threshold value of TA at deptha + 1. Thus, if xi is the grade of the (a + 1)th highest
object in list i, then τ = t(x1,...,x m). Let us call an object R big ift(R) ≥ τ, and otherwise call
objectR small. (Note that these deﬁnitions of “big” and “small” are different from those in the proof of
Theorem 6.1.)
We now show that every memberR ofY is big. Letx′
i be some grade in the topa + 1 grades in list
i that is not the grade in list i of any object seen by A. There is such a grade, since all grades in list i
are distinct, and A sees at mosta objects. Let D′ agree with D on all objects seen by A, and let object
V have gradex′
i in theith list of D′, for 1 ≤i ≤m. Hence, the grade ofV in D′ ist(x′
1,...,x ′
m) ≥τ.
SinceV was unseen, and sinceV is assigned grades in each list in D′ below the level that A reached by
sorted access, it follows that algorithm A performs exactly the same, and in particular gives the same
output, for databases D and D′. Therefore, algorithm A hasR, but notV , in its output for database D′.
By correctness of A, it follows thatR is big, as desired.
We claim that every memberR ofY is one of the topa + 1 members of some listi (and so is seen
by TA by depth a + 1). Assume by way of contradiction that R is not one of the top a + 1 members
of listi, for 1 ≤ i ≤ m. By our assumptions that the aggregation function t is strictly monotone. and
that D satisﬁes the distinctness property, it follows easily thatR is small. We already showed that every
member of Y is big. This contradiction proves the claim. It follows that TA halts by depth a + 1, as
desired.
In the proof of Theorem 6.5, we showed that under the assumpti ons of Theorem 6.5 (strict mono-
tonicity and the distinctness property) the optimality ratio of TA is at mostcm2, wherec = max {cR/cS,c S/cR}.
12This should not be confused with the aggregation function being both strict and monotone. We apologize for the clash in
terminology, which exists for historical reasons.
14

In Theorem 9.2, we give an aggregation function that is strictly monotone such that no deterministic al-
gorithm can have an optimality ratio of less than m−2
2
cR
cS
. So in our case of greatest interest, where
cR ≥cS, there is a gap of around a factor of 2m in the upper and lower bounds.
The proofs of Theorems 6.1 and 6.5 have several nice properties:
• The proofs would still go through if we were in a scenario wher e, whenever a random access of
objectR in listi takes place, we learn not only the grade of R in listi, but also the relative rank.
Thus, TA is instance optimal even when we allow A to include also algorithms that learn and
make use of such relative rank information.
• As we shall see, we can prove the instance optimality among ap proximation algorithms of an
approximation version of TA, under the assumptions of Theorem 6.1, with only a small change to
the proof (as we shall see, such a theorem does not hold under the assumptions of Theorem 6.5).
6.1 Treating k and m as Constants
In Theorems 6.1 and 6.5 about the instance optimality of TA, w e are treating k (where we are trying
to ﬁnd the top k answers) and m (the number of sorted lists) as constants. We now discuss the se
assumptions.
We begin ﬁrst with the assumption that k is constant. As in the proofs of Theorems 6.1 and 6.5,
leta be the number of accesses by an algorithm A ∈ A. If a ≥ k, then there is no need to treat k as
a constant. Thus, if we were to restrict the class A of algorithms to contain only algorithms that make
at leastk accesses to ﬁnd the top k answers, then there would be no need to assume that k is constant.
How can it arise that an algorithm A can ﬁnd the top k answers without making at least k accesses,
and in particular without accessing at least k objects? It must then happen that either there are at most
k objects in the database, or else every object R that A has not seen has the same overall grade t(R).
The latter will occur, for example, ift is a constant function. Even under these circumstances, it i s still
not reasonable in some contexts (such as certain database co ntexts) to allow an algorithm A to output
an object as a member of the top k objects without ever having seen it: how would the algorithm even
know the name of the object? This is similar to an issue we raised earlier about wild guesses.
What about the assumption that m is constant? As we noted earlier, this is certainly a reasona ble
assumption, since m is the number of arguments of the aggregation function, whic h we are of course
taking to be ﬁxed. In the case of the assumptions of Theorem 6. 1 (no wild guesses), Corollary 6.2 tells
us that at least for strict aggregation functions, this dependence onm is inevitable. Similarly, in the case
of the assumptions of Theorem 6.5 (strict monotonicity and the distinctness property), Theorem 9.2 tells
us that at least for certain aggregation functions, this dependence onm is inevitable.
6.2 Turning TA into an Approximation Algorithm, and Allowin g Early Stopping
TA can easily be modiﬁed to be anapproximation algorithm. It can then be used in situations where we
care only about the approximately topk answers. Thus, let θ >1 be given. Deﬁne a θ-approximation
to the topk answers (fort over database D) to be a collection of k objects (and their grades) such that
for eachy among thesek objects and eachz not among thesek objects,θt(y) ≥t(z). We can modify
TA to ﬁnd aθ-approximation to the top k answers by modifying the stopping rule in Step 2 to say “As
15

L1
(1, ·)
(2, ·)
. . .
(n + 1, 1
θ )
(n + 2, 1
2θ2 )
(n + 3, ·)
. . .
(2n + 1, ·)
L2
(2n + 1, ·)
(2n, ·)
. . .
(n + 1, 1
θ )
(n, 1
2θ2 )
(n − 1, ·)
. . .
(1, ·)
Figure 2: Database for Example 6.8
soon as at leastk objects have been seen whose grade is at least equal toτ/θ , then halt.” Let us call this
approximation algorithm TAθ.
Theorem 6.6: Assume thatθ >1 and that the aggregation functiont is monotone. Then TA θ correctly
ﬁnds aθ-approximation to the topk answers fort.
Proof: This follows from a straightforward modiﬁcation of the proof of Theorem 4.1.
The next theorem says that when we restrict attention to algo rithms that do not make wild guesses,
then TAθ is instance optimal.
Theorem 6.7: Assume thatθ >1 and that the aggregation functiont is monotone. Let D be the class of
all databases. Let A be the class of all algorithms that ﬁnd a θ-approximation to the topk answers for
t for every database and that do not make wild guesses. Then TAθ is instance optimal over A and D.
Proof: The proof of Theorem 6.1 carries over verbatim provided we modify the deﬁnition of an object
R being “big” to be thatθt(R) ≥τA.
Theorem 6.7 shows that the analog of Theorem 6.1 holds for TA θ. The next example, which is
a modiﬁcation of Example 6.3, shows that the analog of Theore m 6.5 does not hold for TA θ. One
interpretation of these results is that Theorem 6.1 is sufﬁciently robust that it can survive the perturbation
of allowing approximations, whereas Theorem 6.5 is not.
Example 6.8 :Assume thatθ >1, that there are 2n + 1objects, which we will call simply1, 2,..., 2n +
1, and that there are two listsL1 andL2 (see Figure 2).13 Assume that in listL1, the grades are assigned
so that all grades are different, the ordering of the objects by grade is 1, 2,..., 2n + 1, objectn + 1 has
the grade 1/θ, and objectn + 2 has the grade 1/(2θ2). Assume that in list L2, the grades are assigned
so that all grades are different, the ordering of the objects by grade is 2n + 1, 2n,..., 1 (the reverse of
the ordering inL1), objectn + 1 has the grade 1/θ, and objectn has the grade 1/(2θ2). Assume that the
aggregation function is min, and thatk = 1 (so that we are interested in ﬁnding aθ-approximation to the
top answer). The (overall) grade of each object other than ob jectn + 1 is at mostα = 1/(2θ2). Since
θα = 1/(2θ), which is less than the grade 1/θ of objectn + 1, it follows that the unique object that can
13In this and later ﬁgures, each centered dot represents a value that it is not important to give explicitly.
16

be returned by an algorithm such as TAθ that correctly ﬁnds a θ-approximation to the top answer is the
objectn + 1.
An algorithm that makes a wild guess and asks for the grade of o bject n + 1 in both lists would
determine the correct answer and be able to halt safely aftertwo random accesses and no sorted accesses.
The algorithm could halt safely, since it “knows” that it has found an object R such that θt(R) = 1 ,
and so θt(R) is at least as big as every possible grade. However, under sor ted access for list L1, the
algorithm TAθ would see the objects in the order 1, 2,..., 2n + 1, and under sorted access for list L2,
the algorithm TAθ would see the objects in the reverse order. Since the winning objectn + 1 is in the
middle of both sorted lists, it follows that at least n + 1 sorted accesses would be required before TA θ
would even see the winning object.
Just as we converted Example 6.3 into Theorem 6.4, we can convert Example 6.8 into the following
theorem.
Theorem 6.9: Assume that θ > 1. Let D be the class of all databases that satisfy the distinctness
property. Let A be the class of all algorithms that ﬁnd a θ-approximation to the top answer for min for
every database in D. There is no deterministic algorithm (or even probabilisti c algorithm that never
makes a mistake) that is instance optimal over A and D.
Early stopping of TA: It is straightforward to modify TA θ into an interactive process where at all
times the system can show the user the current top k list along with a guarantee about the degree of
approximation to the correct answer. At any time, the user can decide, based on this guarantee, whether
he would like to stop the process. Thus, let β be the grade of the kth (bottom) object in the current top
k list, letτ be the current threshold value, and let θ = τ/β . If the algorithm is stopped early, we have
θ > 1. It is easy to see that similarly to the situation of Theorem 6 .6, the current top k list is then a
θ-approximation to the topk answers. Thus, the user can be shown the current topk list and the number
θ, with a guarantee that he is being shown aθ-approximation to the topk answers.
7 Restricting Sorted Access
Bruno, Gravano, and Marian [?] discuss a scenario where it is not possible to access certain of the lists
under sorted access. They give a nice example where the user wants to get information about restaurants.
The user has an aggregation function that gives a score to each restaurant based on how good it is, how
inexpensive it is, and how close it is. In this example, the Za gat-Review web site gives ratings of
restaurants, the NYT-Review web site gives prices, and the M apQuest web site gives distances. Only
the Zagat-Review web site can be accessed under sorted acces s (with the best restaurants at the top of
the list).
LetZ be the set of indices i of those lists Li that can be accessed under sorted access. We assume
thatZ is nonempty, that is, that at least one of the lists can be accessed under sorted access. We takem′
to be the cardinality |Z| ofZ (and as before, takem to be the total number of sorted lists). Deﬁne TA Z
to be the following natural modiﬁcation of TA, that deals with the restriction on sorted access.
1. Do sorted access in parallel to each of the m′ sorted listsLi withi ∈ Z. As an object R is seen
under sorted access in some list, do random access as needed to the other lists to ﬁnd the gradexi
17

of object R in every listLi. Then compute the grade t(R) = t(x1,...,x m) of object R. If this
grade is one of the k highest we have seen, then remember object R and its grade t(R) (ties are
broken arbitrarily, so that onlyk objects and their grades need to be remembered at any time).
2. For each list Li withi ∈ Z, let xi be the grade of the last object seen under sorted access. For
each listLi withi ⁄∈Z, letxi = 1. Deﬁne the threshold valueτ to bet(x1,...,x m). As soon as
at leastk objects have been seen whose grade is at least equal toτ, then halt.14
3. Let Y be a set containing thek objects that have been seen with the highest grades. The output is
then the graded set {(R,t (R)) |R ∈Y }.
In the case where |Z| = 1, algorithm TAZ is essentially the same as the algorithm TA-Adapt in [?].
In footnote 5, we noted that each of the algorithms in this pap er where there is “sorted access in
parallel” remain correct even when sorted access is not in lockstep. Algorithm TAZ provides an extreme
example, where only some of the sorted lists are accessed under sorted access, and the remaining sorted
lists are accessed under random access only.
We now show that Theorem 6.1, which says that TA is instance optimal when we restrict attention to
algorithms that do not make wild guesses, and Corollary 6.2, which says that the optimality ratio of TA
is best possible when we restrict attention to algorithms that do not make wild guesses, both generalize
to hold for TAZ. What about our other theorem about instance optimality of T A (Theorem 6.5), which
says that TA is instance optimal when the aggregation functi ont is strictly monotone and the class of
legal databases satisﬁes the distinctness property? Inter estingly enough, we shall show (Example 7.3)
that this latter theorem does not generalize to TAZ.
Theorem 7.1: Assume that the aggregation functiont is monotone. Let D be the class of all databases.
Let A be the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the top k answers for t for every database and
that do not make wild guesses, where the only lists that may be accessed under sorted access are those
listsLi withi ∈Z. Then TAZ is instance optimal over A and D.
Proof: The proof is essentially the same as the proof of Theorem 6.1, except for the bookkeeping.
Assume that A ∈ A, and that algorithm A is run over database D. Assume that algorithm A halts at
depthd (that is, if di is the number of objects seen under sorted access to list i, for 1 ≤ i ≤ m, then
d = max idi). Assume that A seesa distinct objects (some possibly multiple times). Since A makes no
wild guesses, and seesa distinct objects, it must make at leasta sorted accesses, and so its middleware
cost is at leastacS. By the same proof as that of Theorem 6.1, it follows that TA Z halts on D by depth
a +k. Hence, the middleware cost of TA Z is at most (a +k)m′cS + (a +k)m′(m − 1)cR, which is
am′cS +am′(m − 1)cR plus an additive constant ofkm′cS +km′(m − 1)cR. So the optimality ratio
of TAZ is at most am′cS+am′(m−1)cR
acS
=m′ +m′(m − 1)cR/cS.
The next result, which is analogous to Corollary 6.2, is a corollary of the proof of Theorem 7.1 and
of a lower bound in Section 9.
14As we shall see in Example 7.3, even though there are at least k objects, it is possible that after seeing the grade of every
object in every list, and thus having done sorted access to ev ery object in every list Li with i ∈ Z, there are not at least k
objects with a grade that is at least equal to the ﬁnal threshold value τ. In this situation, we say that TAZ halts after it has seen
the grade of every object in every list. This situation cannot happen with TA.
18

L1
(R, 1)
. . .
(·, 0.7)
L2
. . .
(R, 0.6)
. . .
L3
(R, 1)
. . .
. . .
Figure 3: Database for Example 7.3
Corollary 7.2: Lett be an arbitrary monotone, strict aggregation function withm arguments. Assume
that |Z| = m′. Let D be the class of all databases. Let A be the class of all algorithms that correctly
ﬁnd the topk answers fort for every database, and that do not make wild guesses, where the only lists
that may be accessed under sorted access are those lists Li withi ∈ Z. Then TA Z is instance optimal
over A and D, with optimality ratio m′ +m′(m − 1)cR/cS. No deterministic algorithm has a lower
optimality ratio.
Proof: In the proof of Theorem 7.1, it is shown that TA Z has an optimality ratio of at most m′ +
m′(m − 1)cR/cS for an arbitrary monotone aggregation function, The lower b ound follows from a
minor variation of the proof of Theorem 9.1, where we takeψ = (dm′ − 1)cS + (dm′ − 1)(m − 1)cR.
The simple details are left to the reader.
Theorem 6.5 says that if the aggregation function t is strictly monotone, and if the class of legal
databases satisﬁes the distinctness property, then TA is instance optimal. We now show by example that
the analogous result fails for TAZ. In fact, we shall show that TAZ need not be instance optimal even if
we assume not only that aggregation functiont is strictly monotone, and that the class of legal databases
satisﬁes the distinctness property, but in addition we assume that the aggregation functiont is strict, and
that no wild guesses are allowed.
Example 7.3 :Assume that the database satisﬁes the distinctness property, that there are only three sorted
listsL1,L2, and L3 (see Figure 3), and that Z = {1} (so that only L1 may be accessed under sorted
access). Let t be the aggregation function where t(x,y,z ) = min {x,y } if z = 1 , and t(x,y,z ) =
(min {x,y,z })/2 ifz ⁄= 1 . It is easy to see that t is strictly monotone and strict. Assume that we are
interested in ﬁnding the top answer (i.e.,k = 1).
Assume that object R has grade 1 in lists L1 andL3, and grade 0.6 in list L2. Hence t(R) = 0.6.
Note that for each objectR′ other thanR, necessarily the grade ofR′ inL3 is not 1 (by the distinctness
property), and sot(R′) ≤ 0.5. Therefore,R is the unique top object.
Assume that the minimum grade in list L1 is 0.7. It follows that the threshold value is never less
than 0.7. Therefore, TAZ does not halt until it has seen the grade of every object in every list. However,
let A be an algorithm that does sorted access to the top object R in list L1 and random access to R in
listsL2 andL3, and then halts and announces thatR is the top object. Algorithm A does only one sorted
access and two random accesses on this database. It is safe fo r algorithm A to halt, since it “knows”
that objectR has grade 0.6 and that no other object can have grade bigger th an 0.5. Since there can be
an arbitrarily large number of objects, it follows that TAZ is not instance optimal. Hence, the analogue
of Theorem 6.5 fails for TAZ.
It is instructive to understand “what goes wrong” in this example and why this same problem does
not also cause Theorems 6.5 or 7.1 to fail. Intuitively, what goes wrong in this example is that the
threshold value is too conservative an estimate as an upper b ound on the grade of unseen objects. By
19

contrast, in the case of Theorem 7.1, some unseen object may have an overall grade equal to the threshold
value, so the threshold value is not too conservative an estimate. In the case of Theorem 6.5, an analysis
of the proof shows that we consider the threshold value at dep tha + 1 rather than depth a. Intuitively,
although the threshold value may be too conservative an esti mate, the threshold value one extra level
down is not.
8 Minimizing Random Access
Thus far in this paper, we have not been especially concerned about the number of random accesses.
For every sorted access in TA, up to m − 1 random accesses take place. Recall that if s is the number
of sorted accesses, andr is the number of random accesses, then the middleware cost isscS +rcR, for
some positive constantscS andcR. Our notion of instance optimality ignores constant factors likem and
cR (they are simply multiplicative factors in the optimality ratio). Hence, there has been no motivation
so far to concern ourself with the number of random accesses.
There are, however, some scenarios where we must pay attention to the number of random accesses.
The ﬁrst scenario is where random accesses are impossible (w hich corresponds to cR = ∞). As we
discussed in Section 2, an example of this ﬁrst scenario aris es when the middleware system is a text
retrieval system, and the sorted lists correspond to the res ults of search engines. Another scenario is
where random accesses are not impossible, but simply expensive relative to sorted access. An example
of this second scenario arises when the costs correspond to disk access (sequential versus random). Then
we would like the optimality ratio to be independent of cR/cS. That is, if we allow cR andcS to vary,
instead of treating them as constants, we would still like the optimality ratio to be bounded.
In this section we describe algorithms that do not use random access frivolously. We give two
algorithms. One uses no random accesses at all, and hence is called NRA (“No Random Access”). The
second algorithm takes into account the cost of a random acce ss. It is a combination of NRA and TA,
and so we call it CA (“Combined Algorithm”).
Both algorithms access the information in a natural way, and , in the spirit of the knowledge-based
programs of Section 4, halt when they know that no improvemen t can take place. In general, at each
point in an execution of these algorithms where a number of so rted and random accesses have taken
place, for each object R there is a subset S(R) = {i1,i 2,...,i ℓ} ⊆ { 1,...,m } of the ﬁelds of R
where the algorithm has determined the values xi1,x i2,...,x iℓ of these ﬁelds. Given this information,
we deﬁne functions of this information that are lower and upp er bounds on the value t(R) can obtain.
The algorithm proceeds until there are no more candidates whose current upper bound is better than the
currentkth largest lower bound.
Lower Bound: Given an object R and subset S(R) = {i1,i 2,...,i ℓ} ⊆ { 1,...,m } of known
ﬁelds ofR, with valuesxi1,x i2,...,x iℓ for these known ﬁelds, we deﬁneWS(R) (or W(R) if the subset
S =S(R) is understood from the context) as the minimum (or worst) value the aggregation functiont
can attain for object R. When t is monotone, this minimum value is obtained by substituting for each
missing ﬁeldi ∈ {1,...,m }\S the value 0, and applyingt to the result. For example, ifS = {1,...,ℓ },
thenWS(R) = t(x1,x 2,...,x ℓ, 0,..., 0). The following property is immediate from the deﬁnition:
Proposition 8.1: IfS is the set of known ﬁelds of objectR, thent(R) ≥WS(R).
In other words, W (R) represents a lower bound on t(R). Is it the best possible? Yes, unless we have
additional information, such as that the value 0 does not appear in the lists. In general, as an algorithm
20

progresses and we learn more ﬁelds of an objectR, itsW value becomes larger (or at least not smaller).
For some aggregation functions t the valueW (R) yields no knowledge until S includes all ﬁelds: for
instance if t is min, then W (R) is 0 until all values are discovered. For other functions it is mo re
meaningful. For instance, when t is the median of three ﬁelds, then as soon as two of them are kno wn
W (R) is at least the smaller of the two.
Upper Bound: The best value an object can attain depends on other information we have. We will
use only the bottom values in each ﬁeld, deﬁned as in TA: xi is the last (smallest) value obtained via
sorted access in listLi. Given an object R and subsetS(R) = {i1,i 2,...,i ℓ} ⊆ { 1,...,m } of known
ﬁelds ofR, with valuesxi1,x i2,...,x iℓ for these known ﬁelds, we deﬁneBS(R) (or B(R) if the subset
S is understood from the context) as the maximum (or best) value the aggregation functiont can attain
for object R. When t is monotone, this maximum value is obtained by substituting for each missing
ﬁeldi ∈ {1,...,m }\S the valuexi, and applyingt to the result. For example, if S = {1,...,ℓ }, then
BS(R) = t(x1,x 2,...,x ℓ,x ℓ+1,...,x m). The following property is immediate from the deﬁnition:
Proposition 8.2: IfS is the set of known ﬁelds of objectR, thent(R) ≤BS(R).
In other words, B(R) represents an upper bound on the value t(R) (or the best value t(R) can
be), given the information we have so far. Is it the best upper bound? If the lists may each contain
equal values (which in general we assume they can), then give n the information we have it is possible
that t(R) = BS(R). If the distinctness property holds (equalities are not all owed in a list), then for
continuous aggregation functions t it is the case that B(R) is the best upper bound on the value t can
have on R. In general, as an algorithm progresses and we learn more ﬁel ds of an object R and the
bottom valuesxi decrease,B(R) can only decrease (or remain the same).
An important special case is an object R that has not been encountered at all. In this case B(R) =
t(x1,x 2,...,x m). Note that this is the same as the threshold value in TA.
8.1 No Random Access Algorithm—NRA
As we have discussed, there are situations where random acce sses are impossible. We now consider
algorithms that make no random accesses. Since random acces ses are impossible, in this section we
change our criterion for the desired output. In earlier sections, we demanded that the output be the “top
k answers”, which consists of the top k objects, along with their (overall) grades. In this section , we
make the weaker requirement that the output consist of the to p k objects, without their grades. The
reason is that, since random access is impossible, it may be m uch cheaper (that is, require many fewer
accesses) to ﬁnd the top k objects without their grades. This is because, as we now show by example,
we can sometimes obtain enough partial information about grades to know that an object is in the topk
objects without knowing its exact grade.
Example 8.3 :Consider the following scenario, where the aggregation function is the average, and where
k = 1 (so that we are interested only in the top object). There are o nly two sorted lists L1 andL2 (see
Figure 4), and the grade of every object in both L1 andL2 is 1/3, except that object R has grade 1 in
L1 and grade 0 in L2. After two sorted accesses to L1 and one sorted access to L2, there is enough
information to know that object R is the top object (its average grade is at least 1/2, and every other
object has average grade at most 1/3). If we wished to ﬁnd the g rade of objectR, we would need to do
sorted access to all ofL2.
21

L1
(R, 1)
(·, 1
3 )
. . .
(·, 1
3 )
L2
(·, 1
3 )
. . .
(·, 1
3 )
(R, 0)
Figure 4: Database for Example 8.3
Note that we are requiring only that the output consist of the topk objects, with no information being
given about the sorted order (sorted by grade). If we wish to k now the sorted order, this can easily
be determined by ﬁnding the top object, the top 2 objects, etc . Let Ci be the cost of ﬁnding the top i
objects. It is interesting to note that there is no necessary relationship betweenCi andCj fori<j . For
example, in Example 8.3, we have C1 < C2. If we were to modify Example 8.3 so that there are two
objectsR andR′ with grade 1 in L1, where the grade of R inL2 is 0, and the grade of R′ inL2 is 1/4
(and so that, as before, all remaining grades of all objects in both lists is 1/3), thenC2<C 1.
The cost of ﬁnding the top k objects in sorted order is at most k maxiCi. Since we are treating k
as a constant, it follows easily that we can convert our instance optimal algorithm (which we shall give
shortly) for ﬁnding the top k objects into an instance optimal algorithm for ﬁnding the to pk objects in
sorted order. In practice, it is usually good enough to know t he top k objects in sorted order, without
knowing the grades. In fact, the major search engines on the w eb no longer give grades (possibly to
prevent reverse engineering).
The algorithm NRA is as follows.
1. Do sorted access in parallel to each of them sorted listsLi. At each depthd (whend objects have
been accessed under sorted access in each list):
• Maintain the bottom valuesx(d)
1 ,x (d)
2 ,...,x (d)
m encountered in the lists.
• For every objectR with discovered ﬁelds S =S(d)(R) ⊆ { 1,...,m }, compute the values
W (d)(R) = WS(R) andB(d)(R) = BS(R). (For objects R that have not been seen, these
values are virtually computed asW (d)(R) = t(0,..., 0), andB(d)(R) = t(x1,x 2,...,x m),
which is the threshold value.)
• LetT (d)
k , the current top k list, contain the k objects with the largest W (d) values seen so
far (and their grades); if two objects have the same W (d) value, then ties are broken using
theB(d) values, such that the object with the highestB(d) value wins (and arbitrarily among
objects that tie for the highestB(d) value). LetM (d)
k be thekth largestW (d) value inT (d)
k .
2. Call an object R viable ifB(d)(R) > M(d)
k . Halt when (a) at least k distinct objects have been
seen (so that in particularT (d)
k containsk objects) and (b) there are no viable objects left outside
T (d)
k , that is, whenB(d)(R) ≤M (d)
k for allR ⁄∈T (d)
k . Return the objects inT (d)
k .
We now show that NRA is correct for each monotone aggregationfunctiont.
Theorem 8.4: If the aggregation functiont is monotone, then NRA correctly ﬁnds the topk objects.
22

Proof: Assume that NRA halts after d sorted accesses to each list, and that T (d)
k = {R1,R 2,...,R k}.
Thus, the objects output by NRA are R1,R 2,...,R k. Let R be an object not among R1,R 2,...,R k.
We must show thatt(R) ≤t(Ri) for eachi.
Since the algorithm halts at depth d, we know that R is nonviable at depth d, that is, B(d)(R) ≤
M (d)
k . Now t(R) ≤ B(d)(R) (Proposition 8.2). Also for each of the k objects Ri we have M (d)
k ≤
W (d)(Ri) ≤ t(Ri) (from Proposition 8.1 and the deﬁnition of M (d)
k ). Combining the inequalities we
have shown, we have
t(R) ≤B(d)(R) ≤M (d)
k ≤W (d)(Ri) ≤t(Ri)
for eachi, as desired.
Note that the tie-breaking mechanism was not needed for correctness (but will be used for instance
optimality). We now show instance optimality of NRA over all algorithms that do not use random
access:
Theorem 8.5: Assume that the aggregation functiont is monotone. Let D be the class of all databases.
Let A be the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the topk objects fort for every database and that
do not make random accesses. Then NRA is instance optimal over A and D.
Proof: Assume A ∈ A. If algorithm NRA halts at depth d, and NRA saw at leastk distinct objects for
the ﬁrst time by depth d, then NRA makes only a constant number of accesses (at most km2) on that
database. So suppose that on some database D, algorithm NRA halts at depth d, and that NRA saw at
leastk distinct objects by depthd − 1. We claim that A must get to depthd in at least one of the lists. It
then follows that the optimality ratio of NRA is at mostm, and the theorem follows. Suppose the claim
fails; then from the fact that algorithm NRA did not halt at de pthd − 1 there is an object R ⁄∈T (d−1)
k
such thatB(d−1)(R) > M(d−1)
k . We know that W (d−1)(R) ≤ M (d−1)
k , sinceR ⁄∈T (d−1)
k Further, we
know from the tie-breaking mechanism that if W (d−1)(R) = M (d−1)
k , then for each Ri ∈T (d−1)
k such
thatW (d)(Ri) = M (d)
k necessarilyB(d−1)(Ri) ≥B(d−1)(R).
There are now two cases, depending on whether or not algorith m A outputsR as one of the top k
objects. In either case, we construct a database on which A errs.
Case 1: Algorithm A outputs R as one of the top k objects. We construct a database D′ where
A errs as follows. Database D′ is identical to D up to depth d − 1 (that is, for each i the top d − 1
objects and their grades are the same in list Li for D′ as for D). For each Ri and for each missing ﬁeld
j ∈ { 1,...,m }\S(d−1)(Ri) assign value x(d−1)
j . For the object R assign all of the missing ﬁelds in
{1,...,m }\S(d−1)(R) the value 0. We now show thatt(R)<t (Rj) for eachj with 1 ≤j ≤k. Hence,
R is not one of the topk objects, and so algorithm A erred. First, we have
t(R) = W (d−1)(R) ≤M (d−1)
k (3)
Also, for alli with 1 ≤i ≤k we have
M (d−1)
k ≤W (d−1)(Ri) ≤B(d−1)(Ri) = t(Ri). (4)
If W (d−1)(R) < M(d−1)
k , then we have from (3) and (4) that t(R) < t(Ri) for each i, as desired.
So assume that W (d−1)(R) = M (d−1)
k . Again, we wish to show that t(R) < t(Ri) for each i. We
23

consider separately in two subcases those i whereM (d−1)
k = W (d−1)(Ri) and those where M (d−1)
k ⁄=
W (d−1)(Ri).
Subcase 1: M (d−1)
k = W (d−1)(Ri). Then t(R) ≤ M (d−1)
k < B(d−1)(R) ≤ B(d−1)(Ri) = t(Ri),
as desired, where the last inequality follows from the tie-breaking mechanism.
Subcase 2: M (d−1)
k ⁄= W (d−1)(Ri), and so M (d−1)
k < W(d−1)(Ri). From the inequalities in (4),
we see thatM (d−1)
k <t (Ri). So by (3), we havet(R)<t (Ri), as desired.
Case 2: Algorithm A does not output R as one of the top k objects. We construct a database
D′′ where A errs as follows. Database D′′ is identical to D up to depth d − 1. At depth d it gives
each missing ﬁeld i ∈ { 1,...,m }\S(d−1)(R) ofR the valuex(d−1)
i . For all remaining missing ﬁelds,
including missing ﬁelds ofR1,...,R k, assign the value 0. Nowt(R) = B(d−1)(R)>M (d−1)
k , whereas
(a) for at least one Ri (namely, thatRi whereW (d)(Ri) = M (d)
k ) we have t(Ri) = M (d−1)
k , and (b)
for each objectR′ not amongR1,R 2,...,R k orR we have thatt(R′) ≤M (d−1)
k . Hence, algorithm A
erred in not outputtingR as one of the topk objects.
Note that the issue of “wild guesses” is not relevant here, si nce we are restricting our attention to
algorithms that make no random accesses (and hence no wild guesses).
The next result, which is analogous to Corollaries 6.2 and 7. 2 is a corollary of the proof of Theo-
rem 8.4 and of a lower bound in Section 9. Speciﬁcally, in the p roof of Theorem 8.4, we showed that
the optimality ratio of NRA is at most m. The next result says that if the aggregation function is str ict,
then the optimality ratio is preciselym, and this is best possible.
Corollary 8.6: Lett be an arbitrary monotone, strict aggregation function withm arguments. Let D be
the class of all databases. Let A be the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the top k objects for
t for every database and that do not make random accesses. Then NRA is instance optimal over A and
D, with optimality ratiom. No deterministic algorithm has a lower optimality ratio.
Proof: In the proof of Theorem 8.4, it is shown that NRA has an optimal ity ratio of at most m for an
arbitrary monotone aggregation function, The lower bound follows from Theorem 9.5.
Remark 8.7: Unfortunately, the execution of NRA may require a lot of bookkeeping at each step, since
when NRA does sorted access at depthℓ (for 1 ≤ℓ ≤d), the value ofB(ℓ)(R) must be updated for every
objectR seen so far. This may be up to ℓm updates for each depth ℓ, which yields a total of Ω(d2m)
updates by depth d. Furthermore, unlike TA, it no longer sufﬁces to have bounde d buffers. However,
for a speciﬁc function like min it is possible that by using appropriate data structures the computation
can be greatly simpliﬁed. This is an issue for further investigation.
8.2 Taking into Account the Random Access Cost
We now present the combined algorithm CA that does use randomaccesses, but takes their cost (relative
to sorted access) into account. As before, let cS be the cost of a sorted access and cR be the cost of a
random access. The middleware cost of an algorithm that make ss sorted accesses and r random ones
isscS +rcR. We know that TA is instance optimal; however, the optimalit y ratio is a function of the
relative cost of a random access to a sorted access, that is cR/cS. Our goal in this section is to ﬁnd an
24

algorithm that is instance optimal and where the optimalityratio is independent ofcR/cS. One can view
CA as a merge between TA and NRA. Let h = ⌊cR/cS ⌋. We assume in this section that cR ≥ cS, so
thath ≥ 1. The idea of CA is to run NRA, but every h steps to run a random access phase and update
the information (the upper and lower bounds B andW ) accordingly. As in Section 8.1, in this section
we require only that the output consist of the top k objects, without their grades. If we wish to obtain
the grades, this requires only a constant number of additional random accesses, and so has no effect on
instance optimality.
The algorithm CA is as follows.
1. Do sorted access in parallel to each of them sorted listsLi. At each depthd (whend objects have
been accessed under sorted access in each list):
• Maintain the bottom valuesx(d)
1 ,x (d)
2 ,...,x (d)
m encountered in the lists.
• For every objectR with discovered ﬁelds S =S(d)(R) ⊆ { 1,...,m }, compute the values
W (d)(R) = WS(R) andB(d)(R) = BS(R). (For objects R that have not been seen, these
values are virtually computed asW (d)(R) = t(0,..., 0), andB(d)(R) = t(x1,x 2,...,x m),
which is the threshold value.)
• LetT (d)
k , the current top k list, contain the k objects with the largest W (d) values seen so
far (and their grades); if two objects have the same W (d) value, then ties are broken using
theB(d) values, such that the object with the highestB(d) value wins (and arbitrarily among
objects that tie for the highestB(d) value). LetM (d)
k be thekth largestW (d) value inT (d)
k .
2. Call an object R viable ifB(d)(R) > M(d)
k . Every h = ⌊cR/cS⌋ steps (that is, every time the
depth of sorted access increases byh), do the following: pick the viable object that has been seen
for which not all ﬁelds are known and whose B(d) value is as big as possible (ties are broken
arbitrarily). Perform random accesses for all of its (at mos tm − 1) missing ﬁelds. If there is no
such object, then do not do a random access on this step15.
3. Halt when (a) at least k distinct objects have been seen (so that in particular T (d)
k contains k
objects) and (b) there are no viable objects left outside T (d)
k , that is, when B(d)(R) ≤ M (d)
k for
allR ⁄∈T (d)
k . Return the objects inT (d)
k .
Note that if h is very large (say larger than the number of objects in the dat abase), then algorithm
CA is the same as NRA, since no random access is performed. If h = 1 , then algorithm CA is similar
to TA, but different in intriguing ways. For each step of doin g sorted access in parallel, CA performs
random accesses for all of the missing ﬁelds of some object. Instead of performing random accesses for
all of the missing ﬁelds of some object, TA performs random accesses for all of the missing ﬁe lds of
every object seen in sorted access. Later (Section 8.4), we discuss further CA versus TA.
For moderate values of h it is not the case that CA is equivalent to the intermittent algorithm that
executesh steps of NRA and then one step of TA. (That is, the intermitten t algorithm does random
15 The reason for this escape clause is so that CA does not make a w ild guess. We now give an example where this escape
clause may be invoked. Assume that k = 2 and cR = cS. Assume that on the ﬁrst round of sorted access in parallel, the same
object appears in all of the lists. Then on the ﬁrst opportunity to do a random access, the escape clause must be invoked, since
every ﬁeld is known for the only object that has been seen. In t he proof of Theorem 8.9, we show that if the escape clause is
invoked after depth k (that is, after there has been at least k rounds of sorted access in parallel), then CA halts immediat ely
after.
25

accesses in the same time order as TA does, but simply delays t hem, so that it does random accesses
everyh steps.) We show later (Section 8.4) an example where the intermittent algorithm performs much
worse than CA. The difference between the algorithms is that CA picks “wisely” on which objects to
perform the random access, namely, according to their B(d) values. Thus, it is not enough to consider
the knowledge-based program of Section 4 to design the insta nce optimal algorithm CA; we need also
a principle as to which objects to perform the random access on. This was not an issue in designing TA,
since in that context, random accesses increase the cost by only a constant multiple.
Correctness of CA is essentially the same as for NRA, since th e same upper and lower bounds are
maintained:
Theorem 8.8: If the aggregation functiont is monotone, then CA correctly ﬁnds the topk objects.
In the next section, we consider scenarios under which CA is i nstance optimal, with the optimality
ratio independent ofcR/cS.
8.3 Instance Optimality of CA
In Section 4, we gave two scenarios under which TA is instance optimal over A and D. In the ﬁrst sce-
nario (from Theorem 6.1), (1) the aggregation functiont is monotone; (2) D is the class of all databases;
and (c) A is the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the top k objects fort for every database and
that do not make wild guesses. In the second scenario (from Theorem 6.5), (1) the aggregation function
t is strictly monotone; (2) D is the class of all databases that satisfy the distinctness property; and (3) A
is the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the topk objects fort for every database in D. We might
hope that under either of these two scenarios, CA is instance optimal, with optimality ratio independent
ofcR/cS. Unfortunately, this hope is false, in both scenarios. In fa ct, our theorems say that not only
does CA fail to fulﬁll this hope, but so does every algorithm. In other words, neither of these scenarios
is enough to guarantee the existence of an algorithm with optimality ratio independent ofcR/cS. In the
case of the ﬁrst scenario, we obtain this negative result fro m Theorem 9.1. In the case of the second
scenario, we obtain this negative result from Theorem 9.2.
However, we shall show that by slightly strengthening the as sumption on t in the second scenario,
CA becomes instance optimal, with optimality ratio independent ofcR/cS. Let us say that the aggrega-
tion functiont is strictly monotone in each argument if whenever one argument is strictly increased and
the remaining arguments are held ﬁxed, then the value of the a ggregation function is strictly increased.
That is,t is strictly monotone in each argument ifxi <x ′
i implies that
t(x1,...,x i−1,x i,x i+1,...,x m)
< t (x1,...,x i−1,x ′
i,x i+1,...,x m).
The average (or sum) is strictly monotone in each argument, whereas min is not.
We now show (Theorem 8.9) that in the second scenario above, i f we replace “The aggregation
functiont is strictly monotone” by “The aggregation functiont is strictly monotone in each argument”,
then CA is instance optimal, with optimality ratio independ ent of cR/cS. We shall also show (Theo-
rem 8.10) that the same result holds if instead, we simply taket to be min, even though min is not strictly
monotone in each argument.
26

Theorem 8.9: Assume that the aggregation functiont is strictly monotone in each argument. Let D be
the class of all databases that satisfy the distinctness property. Let A be the class of all algorithms that
correctly ﬁnd the top k objects fort for every database in D. Then CA is instance optimal over A and
D, with optimality ratio independent ofcR/cS.
Proof: Assume D ∈ D. Assume that when CA runs on D, it halts after doing sorted access to depth
d. Thus, CA makes md sorted accesses andr random accesses, wherer ≤md/h. Note that in CA the
two components (mdcS andrcR) of the cost mdcS +rcR are roughly equal, and their sum is at most
2mdcS. Assume A ∈ A, and that A makesd′ sorted accesses andr′ random accesses. The cost that A
incurs is therefored′cS +r′cR.
Suppose that algorithm A announces that the objectsR′
1,R ′
2,...,R ′
k are the topk. First, we claim
that eachR′
i appears in the topd′ +r′ + 1 objects of at least one listLj. Suppose not. Then there is an
objectR′
i output by A such that in each list there is a vacancy aboveR′
i that has not been accessed either
by sorted or random access. There is a database D′ identical to D in all locations accessed by A but
with an object R′ ⁄∈ {R′
1,R ′
2,...,R ′
k} whose values reside in these vacancies. From the distinctne ss
property, for each ﬁeld the value for R′ is strictly larger than that for R′
i, and from strict monotonicity
oft we havet(R′)> t(R′
i), makingR′ a mandatory member of the output. (Note: we used only strict
monotonicity oft rather than the stronger property of being strictly monotone in each variable.) This is
a contradiction. Hence, eachR′
i appears in the topd′ +r′ + 1 objects of at least one listLj.
Let Sk = min {t(R′
1),t (R′
2),...,t (R′
k)}. Deﬁne the set C of objects not output by A whose B
value at stepd′ +r′ + 1 of CA (that is, afterd′ +r′ + 1 parallel sorted accesses) is more thanSk, that is,
C = {R ⁄∈ {R′
1,R ′
2,...,R ′
k}|B(d′+r′+1)(R)>S k}.
We claim that for each object R ∈ C, algorithm A must use a random access (to determine R’s
value in some list). Suppose not. Then we show a databaseD′ on which algorithm A performs the same
as on D but where t(R) > Sk. This is a contradiction, since then R would have to be in the output
of A. For each ﬁeld i ofR that is not accessed by A, we assign in D′ the highest value from the top
d′ +r′ + 1locations ofLi that had not been accessed byA; such “free” locations exist by the pigeonhole
principal, since A “touched” at mostd′ +r′ objects. Now each ﬁeld i ofR that is accessed by A is one
of the topd′ values inLi, since by assumptionR was accessed only under sorted access by A. Also, by
construction, in D′ each remaining ﬁeldi ofR is one of the topd′ +r′ + 1 values inLi. So in D′, every
ﬁeld i ofR is one of the top d′ +r′ + 1 values inLi. Also, by construction, the value of every ﬁeld i
ofR is at least as high in D′ as in D. It follows by monotonicity of t that the value of t(R) in D′ is at
leastB(d′+r′+1)(R) (we do not need the stronger fact thatt is strictly monotone in each argument). But
B(d′+r′+1)(R)>S k, sinceR ∈C. Hence, t(R)>S k. This is the contradiction that was to be shown.
So indeed, for each objectR ∈C algorithm A must use a random access. Hence,r′ ≥ |C|.
Setd′′ =h(|C| +k) +d′ +r′ + 1. We now show that CA halts by depthd′′. There are two cases,
depending on whether or not the escape clause in Step 2 of CA (w hich says “If there is no such object,
then do not do a random access on this step”) is invoked at somedepth ˆd withd′ +r′ + 1 ≤ ˆd ≤d′′.
Case 1: The escape clause of CA is invoked at some depth ˆd withd′ +r′ + 1 ≤ ˆd ≤d′′. There are
two subcases, depending on whether or notd′ +r′ + 1 ≥k.
Subcase 1:d′ +r′ + 1 ≥k. Then ˆd ≥d′ +r′ + 1 ≥k. Just as in the second paragraph of the proof
of Theorem 6.1, we know that the algorithm CA has seen at least ˆd objects by depth ˆd (this is because
27

by depth ˆd it has made m ˆd sorted accesses, and each object is accessed at most m times under sorted
access). If CA had seen strictly more than ˆd objects by depth ˆd, then the escape clause would not be
invoked. Since the escape clause was invoked, it follows tha t CA must have seen exactly ˆd objects by
depth ˆd. By depth ˆd, the algorithm CA has made exactly ˆdm sorted accesses. Since CA has seen exactly
ˆd objects by depth ˆd, and since each object is accessed at most m times under sorted access, it follows
that each of the ˆd objects that CA has seen has been seen under sorted access in every one of them lists.
Since ˆd ≥k, by depth ˆd there are at leastk objects that have been seen under sorted access in every one
of the lists. (This situation should sound familiar: it is th e stopping rule for FA.) For every object that
has been seen, there is no uncertainty about its overall grad e (since it has been seen in every list), and
so no object that has been seen and is not in the top k list is viable. Since each object that has not been
seen hasB(ˆd) value at most equal to the threshold value at depth ˆd, and each member of the top k list
has grade at least equal to the threshold value, it follows that no object that has not been seen is viable.
So there are no more viable objects outside of the topk list, and CA halts by depth ˆd ≤d′′, as desired.
Subcase 2: d′ +r′ + 1 < k. So algorithm A sees less thank objects before it halts. If database D
contains more than k objects, then there are two objects R andR′ that algorithm A does not see such
that algorithm A outputsR but notR′ as part of the top k. But then, since algorithm A does not have
information to distinguishR andR′, it must make a mistake on some database (either the databaseD or
the database obtained from D by reversing the roles ofR andR′). So database D cannot contain more
thank objects. Since we are assuming throughout this paper that th e number of objects in the database
is at least k, it follows that D contains exactlyk objects. Therefore, at depth k of algorithm CA, all k
objects have been seen under sorted access in every list. Sim ilarly to the proof in Subcase 1, it follows
that CA halts at depthk. Sincek <d′′, we know that CA halts by depthd′′, as desired.
Case 2: The escape clause of CA is not invoked at any depth ˆd withd′ +r′ + 1 ≤ ˆd ≤d′′. Recall
that CA performs random access on viable objects based on theirB values. Until they receive a random
access after step d′ +r′ + 1 of CA, the members of C have the highest B values. Therefore, within
h|C| steps after reaching depthd′ +r′ + 1 (that is, by stepd′ +r′ + 1 +h|C|), all members ofC will
be randomly accessed. We now argue that the next objects to be accessed in CA will be the R′
i’s that
are output by A (unless they have been randomly accessed already.) Here we w ill appeal to the strict
monotonicity in each argument of the aggregation function t. For a function t that is strictly monotone
in each argument, at each step of CA on a database that satisﬁes the distinctness property and for every
objectR, if S(R) is missing some ﬁelds, then BS(R) > t(R). Therefore at step d′ +r′ + 1 + h|C|
of CA, for all R′
i whoset value has not been determined we have B(d′+r′+1+h|C|)(R′
i) > t(R′
i) ≥Sk.
Since no other object with B(d′+r′+1+h|C|) value larger than Sk is left, after at most hk more steps in
CA, all of {R′
1,R ′
2,...,R ′
k} with missing ﬁelds will be randomly accessed and their t value will be
known to CA.
We claim that at step d′′ of CA there are no more viable objects left: ﬁrst, M (d′′)
k = Sk, since all
of {R′
1,R ′
2,...,R ′
k} have been accessed (in every ﬁeld) and each of their W (d′′) values equals their t
values. Since all other objectsR withB(d′′)(R)>S k have been accessed, there are more viable objects
left, so CA halts.
We have shown that in both cases, the algorithm CA halts by depthd′′. Recall that when CA gets to
depthd it incurs a cost of at most 2mdcS. We showed that CA halts by depth d′′ =h(|C| +k) +d′ +
r′ + 1 ≤h(r′ +k) +d′ +r′ + 1. Hence, the cost CA incurs is at most 2m(h(r′ +k) +d′ +r′ + 1)cS,
28

which is 2m(h(r′ +k) +d′ +r)cS plus an additive constant of 2mcS. Now
2m(h(r′ +k) +d′ +r′)cS ≤ 2m(cR
cS
(r′ +k)cS + (d′ +r′)cS)
= 2 m(r′(cR +cS) +d′cS +kcR)
≤ 2m(r′(2cR) +d′cS +kcR) since by assumptioncR ≥cS
≤ 2m(r′(2cR) +d′cS +kr′cR) sincer′ ≥ 1 (see below)
= 2 md′cS + (4m +k)r′cR
≤ (4m +k)(d′cS +r′cR)
Sinced′cS +r′cR is the middleware cost of A, we get that the optimality ratio of CA is at most4m +k.
So we need only show that we may assumer′ ≥ 1. Assume not. Then A makes no random accesses.
Now by Theorem 8.5, NRA is instance optimal compared with algorithms that make no random access,
and of course the optimality ratio is independent ofcR/cS. Further, the cost of CA is at most twice that
of NRA. So CA is instance optimal compared with algorithms that make no random access, such as A,
with optimality ratio independent ofcR/cS.
In the proof of Theorem 8.9, we showed that under the assumpti ons of Theorem 8.9 (strict mono-
tonicity in each argument and the distinctness property), t he optimality ratio of CA is at most 4m +k.
In Theorem 9.2, we give a lower bound that is linear in m, at least for one aggregation function that is
strictly monotone in each argument.
The next theorem says that for the function min (which is not strictly monotone in each argument),
algorithm CA is instance optimal.
Theorem 8.10: Let D be the class of all databases that satisfy the distinctness p roperty. Let A be the
class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the topk objects for min for every database in D. Then CA is
instance optimal over A and D, with optimality ratio independent ofcR/cS.
Proof (Sketch): The proof is similar to the proof of Theorem 8.9, where the key point is that for the
function min at every stepd of CA there can be at most m differentR’s with the sameB(d)(R) value,
sinceB(d)(R) equals one of the ﬁelds of R and the distinctness property assures that there are at most
m different ﬁelds in all lists with the same value (this replaces the use of strict mon otonicity in each
argument). Therefore at step d′ +r′ + 1 + h|C| there are at most m objects with B value that equals
Sk, and there are no objects outside of {R′
1,R ′
2,...,R ′
k} whose B value exceeds Sk. Since the B
value of each member of {R′
1,R ′
2,...R ′
k} is at least Sk, it follows that after hm more steps all of
{R′
1,R ′
2,...,R ′
k} will be randomly accessed, so there will be no viable objects left and CA will halt.
The rest of the analysis is similar to the proof of Theorem 8.9 , except that hk is replaced by hm. The
net result is an optimality ratio of at most 5m.
In the proof of Theorem 8.10, we showed that under the assumpt ions of Theorem 8.10 (the dis-
tinctness property with min as the aggregation function), t he optimality ratio of CA is at most 5m. In
Theorem 9.4, we give a lower bound that is linear inm.
8.4 CA Versus Other Algorithms
In this section, we compare CA against two other algorithms. The ﬁrst algorithm we compare it against
is the intermittent algorithm, which does random accesses in the same time order as TA does, but
29

L1
(·, 1
2 + h−2
8h )
(·, 1
2 + h−3
8h )
(·, 1
2 + h−4
8h )
. . .
(·, 1
2 + 1
8h )
(R, 1
2 )
(·, 1
8 )
. . .
L2
(·, 1
2 + h−2
8h )
(·, 1
2 + h−3
8h )
(·, 1
2 + h−4
8h )
. . .
(·, 1
2 + 1
8h )
(R, 1
2 )
(·, 1
8 )
. . .
L3
(·, 1
2 + h2−1
8h2 )
(·, 1
2 + h2−2
8h2 )
(·, 1
2 + h2−3
8h2 )
. . .
(·, 1
2 + 1
8h2 )
(R, 1
2 )
. . .
. . .
Figure 5: Database about CA versus the intermittent algorithm
simply delays them, so that it does random accesses every h = ⌊cR/cS ⌋ steps. The second algorithm
we compare CA against is TA.
CA versus the intermittent algorithm: We now consider the choice we made in CA of doing
random access to ﬁnd the ﬁelds of the viable object R whoseB(d) value is the maximum. We compare
its performance with the intermittent algorithm, which we j ust described. We show a database (see
Figure 5) where the intermittent algorithm does much worse than CA. Consider the aggregation function
t wheret(x1,x 2,x 3) = x1 +x2 +x3. LetcR/cS be a large integer. Let D be a database where the top
h − 2 locations inL1 andL2 have grades of the form 1/2 +i/(8h), for 1 ≤i ≤h − 2, and where none
are matched with each other. Locationh − 1 in the two lists belong to same objectR, with grade 1/2 in
both of them. Location h in the two lists both have the grade 1/8. In L3 the toph2 − 1 locations have
grades of the form 1/2 +i/(8h2), for 1 ≤i ≤h2 − 1, and in locationh2, objectR has grade 1/2. Note
that the maximum overall grade (which occurs for the objectR) is 1 1
2 and that all objects that appear in
one of the toph − 2 locations in listsL1 andL2 have overall grades that are at most 1 3
8 (this is because
each object in the top h − 2 locations inL1 has grade at most 5/8 inL1, grade at most 1/8 inL2, and
grade at most 5/8 inL3.) At step h in CA we have that B(h)(R) ≥ 1 1
2, whereas for all other objects
theirB(h) value is at most 1 3
8. Therefore on this database, CA performs h sorted accesses in parallel
and a single random access onR and then halts. Its middleware cost is thereforehcS +cR = 2cR. The
intermittent algorithm, on the other hand, does not give pri ority to checking R, and will ﬁrst do two
random accesses for each of the h − 2 objects at the top of each of the three lists. Since we take all of
these objects to be distinct, this is 6(h − 2) random accesses, with a middleware cost of 6(h − 2)cR.
So the ratio of the middleware cost of the intermittent algor ithm to the middleware cost of CA on this
database is at least 3(h − 2), which can be arbitrarily large.
In particular, Theorem 8.9 would be false if we were to replac e CA by the intermittent algorithm,
since this example shows that the optimality ratio of the int ermittent algorithm can be arbitrarily large
forh arbitrarily large.
CA versus TA: It is intriguing to consider the differences between CA and T A, even whencR/cS
is not large. Intuitively, TA beats CA in terms of sorted accesses, and CA beats TA in terms of random
accesses. More precisely, TA never makes more sorted access es than CA, since TA gathers as much
information as it can about every object it encounters under sorted access. On the other hand, if we
focus on random accesses, then we see that TA does random acce ss to every ﬁeld of every object that
it sees under sorted access. But CA is more selective about it s random accesses. It “stores up” objects
that it has seen under sorted access, and then does random acc ess only for the object in its stored-up
30

collection with the best potential.
We now consider other advantages of CA over TA. In the database we presented in comparing CA
with the intermittent algorithm, the random access cost of T A is the same as that of the intermittent
algorithm. So for this database, the ratio of the middleware cost of TA to the middleware cost of CA is
at least 3(h − 2). This is a manifestation of the dependence of the optimality ratio of TA oncR/cS and
the independence of the optimality ratio of CA oncR/cS. Furthermore, the fact that at least under certain
assumptions, TA has an optimality ratio that is quadratic inm, whereas under certain assumptions, CA
has an optimality ratio that is only linear in m, is also an indicator of the possible superiority of CA
over TA in certain circumstances. This requires further investigation. As an example where it might be
interesting to compare CA and TA, let the aggregation function be min, letD be the class of all databases
that satisfy the distinctness property, and let A be the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the top
k objects for min for every database in D. We know that TA and CA are both instance optimal in this
scenario (Theorems 6.5 and 8.9), and we know that the optimality ratio of CA is independent of cR/cS
(Theorem 8.9). What are the precise optimality ratios of TA and CA in this scenario? Which has a better
optimality ratio when, say,cR =cS?
TA has an important advantage over CA. Namely, TA requires ve ry little bookkeeping, whereas,
on the face of it, CA requires a great deal of bookkeeping. Thu s, in CA, for every sorted access it is
necessary to update theB value (the upper bound on the overall grade) for every objectwhere not all of
its ﬁelds are known. As we discussed in Remark 8.7 for NRA, it w ould be interesting to develop data
structures for CA that would lead to a reasonable amount of bo okkeeping. We could then compare CA
versus TA in realistic scenarios (both by analysis and simulations).
9 Lower Bounds on the Optimality Ratio
In this section, we prove various lower bounds on the optimality ratio, both for deterministic algorithms
and for probabilistic algorithms that never make a mistake. Each lower bound corresponds to at least
one theorem from earlier in the paper.
The next theorem gives a matching lower bound for the upper bo und on the optimality ratio of TA
given in the proof of Theorem 6.1, provided the aggregation function is strict. As we noted earlier, this
lower bound need not hold if the aggregation function is not s trict (for example, for the aggregation
function max).
Theorem 9.1: Let t be an arbitrary monotone, strict aggregation function with m arguments. Let D
be the class of all databases. Let A be the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the top k answers
fort for every database and that do not make wild guesses. There is no deterministic algorithm that is
instance optimal over A and D, with optimality ratio less thanm +m(m − 1)cR/cS.
Proof: We assume ﬁrst thatk = 1; later, we shall remove this assumption. We restrict our att ention to
a subfamily D′ of D, by making use of positive parametersd,ψ,k 1,k 2 where
1. d,k1, andk2 are integers.
2. ψ = (dm − 1)cS + (dm − 1)(m − 1)cR.
3. k2 >k 1 > max(d,ψ/c S ).
31

The family D′ contains every database of the following form. In every list, the topk2 grades are 1, and
the remaining grades are 0. No object is in the top k1 of more than one list. There is only one object
T that has grade 1 in all of the lists, and it is in the top d of one list. Except for T , each object that is
in the top k1 of any of the lists has grade 1 in all but one of the lists, and gr ade 0 in the remaining list.
It is easy to see that we can pick k1 andk2 big enough to satisfy our conditions, for a sufﬁciently larg e
numberN of objects.
Let A be an arbitrary deterministic algorithm in A. We now show, by an adversary argument, that
the adversary can forceA to have middleware cost at leastψ on some database inD′. The idea is that the
adversary dynamically adjusts the database as each query co mes in from A, in such a way as to evade
allowing A to determine the top element until as late as possible.
Let us say that an object is high in listi if it is in the topd of listi, and high if it is high in some list.
Since no object is high in more than one list, there are dm high objects. Assume that A sees at most
dm − 2 high objects, and hence does not see at least two high objects S1 andS2. Then the adversary
can force the answers that A receives to be consistent with eitherS1 orS2 being the top objectT . This
is a contradiction, since A does not have enough information to halt safely, since it doe s not know the
identity of the top object. So A must see at least dm − 1 high objects. Since A does not make wild
guesses, its sorted access cost is at least (dm − 1)cS. There are two cases.
Case 1: Algorithm A sees some high object under sorted access in a listj where it is not high (and
hence below position k1 in list j, since no object can be in the top k1 positions in more than one list).
Then A has sorted access cost more thank1cS > (ψ/cS )cS =ψ, as desired.
Case 2: There is no high object that A sees under sorted access in a list where it is not high. Let
us say that a high object h is fully randomly accessed if A does random access to h in each of the lists
where it is not high. Whenever A does random access to a high object in a list where it is not high, then
the adversary assures that the ﬁrst m − 2 such random accesses have grade 1, and only the ﬁnal such
random access has grade 0 (this is possible for the adversaryto continue until it has donem − 1 random
accesses for all but one of the high objects). Assume that the re are at least two high objects P1 andP2
that are not fully randomly accessed. Then the adversary can force the answers that A receives to be
consistent with eitherP1 orP2 being the top objectT . This is a contradiction, since once again, A does
not have enough information to halt safely. So there is at most one high object that is not fully randomly
accessed. Since there aredm high objects, it follows thatA must make at least(dm−1)(m−1) random
accesses, with a random access cost of (dm − 1)(m − 1)cR. Hence, the middleware cost of A is at least
(dm − 1)cS + (dm − 1)(m − 1)cR =ψ, as desired.
So in either case, the middleware cost of algorithm A on the resulting database is at least ψ. How-
ever, there is an algorithm in A that makes at most d sorted accesses and m − 1 random accesses,
and so has middleware cost at most dcS + (m − 1)cR. By choosing d sufﬁciently large, the ratio
(dm−1)cS +(dm−1)(m−1)cR
dcS+(m−1)cR
can be made as close as desired to m +m(m − 1)cR/cS. The theorem fol-
lows in the case whenk = 1.
We now describe how to modify the proof in the case whenk >1. The idea is that we make k − 1
of the top k objects easy to ﬁnd. We modify the databases given in the proo f above by creating k − 1
new objects, each with a grade of 1 in every list, and putting t hem at the top of each of the lists. The
simple details are left to the reader.
In the proof of Theorem 6.5 (which assumes strict monotonici ty and the distinctness property), we
showed that the optimality ratio of TA is at most cm2, where c = max {cR/cS,c S/cR}. In the next
32

theorem, we give an aggregation function that is strictly monotone such that no deterministic algorithm
can have an optimality ratio of less than m−2
2
cR
cS
. So in our case of greatest interest, where cR ≥ cS,
there is a gap of around a factor of 2m in the upper and lower bounds. The aggregation function we use
for this result is the functiont given by
t(x1,x 2,...,x m) = min(x1 +x2,x 3,...,x m) (5)
The reason we made use of the unusual aggregation function in (5) is that in the case of min (or an
aggregation function such as average that is strictly monotone in each argument), there is an algorithm
(algorithm CA of Section 8.2) with optimality ratio independent ofcR/cS when we restrict our attention
to databases that satisfy the distinctness property. Thus, the negative result of the next theorem does not
hold for min or average.
Theorem 9.2: Let the aggregation functiont be given by (5) above. Let D be the class of all databases
that satisfy the distinctness property. Let A be the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the top k
objects fort for every database in D. There is no deterministic algorithm that is instance optim al over
A and D, with optimality ratio less than m−2
2
cR
cS
.
Proof: As in the proof of Theorem 9.1, we can assume without loss of generality thatk = 1. We restrict
our attention to a subfamily D′ of D, by making use of positive parametersd,N, andψ, where
1. d andN are integers.
2. ψ = (d − 1)(m − 2)cR.
3. N >max(d, 4ψ/cS ), andN is a multiple of 4.
The family D′ contains each database of the following form. There are N objects. The top d grades in
lists 1 and 2 are of the form i/(2d + 2) for 1 ≤i ≤d, and the object with grade i/(2d + 2) in list 1 is
the one with the grade (d + 1 −i)/(2d + 2) in list 2. Hence, thex1 +x2 value of thesed objects is 1/2.
The grades in the other lists are of the formi/N, for 1 ≤i ≤N. One of the top d objects in lists 1 and
2 has a grade in the half-closed interval [ 1
2, 3
4 ) in each of the other lists. All the rest of the top d objects
in lists 1 and 2 have a grade in the half-closed interval[ 1
2, 3
4 ) in all but one of the other lists, and a grade
in the open interval (0, 1
2 ) in the remaining list. The top object, which we call T , is the unique object
whose overall grade is 1/2. Since T has grade less than 3/4 in lists 3, ... , m, it occurs after the ﬁrst
N/4 objects in each of these m − 2 lists. Furthermore, simply based on the grades of the top d objects
in lists 1 and 2, it is clear that the top object has grade at most 1/2.
Let A be an arbitrary deterministic algorithm in A. We now show, by an adversary argument, that
the adversary can forceA to have middleware cost at leastψ on some database inD′. The idea is that the
adversary dynamically adjusts the database as each query co mes in from A, in such a way as to evade
allowing A to determine the top element until as late as possible. There are two cases.
Case 1: A does at leastN/4 sorted accesses. Then the sorted access cost of A is at least (N/4)cS >
(ψ/cS )cS =ψ, as desired.
Case 2: A does less than N/4 sorted accesses. Let us call the top d objects in lists 1 and 2 candi-
dates. Thus, A does not see any candidate under sorted access in any of the lists 3,...,m . Let us call a
33

grade that is at least 1/2 high, and a grade less than 1/2 low. Let us say that a candidate S is fully ran-
domly accessed if A does random access to S in each of the lists 3,...,m . Whenever A does random
access to a candidate in at least one of lists3,...,m , then as long as possible, the adversary assures that
the ﬁrstm − 3 random accesses have a high grade, and that only the ﬁnal random access has a low grade
(it is possible for the adversary to continue like this until all but one of the candidates is fully randomly
accessed). Assume that there are at least two candidatesP1 andP2 that are not fully randomly accessed.
Then the adversary can force the answers that A receives to be consistent with eitherP1 orP2 being the
top objectT . This is a contradiction, since A does not have enough information to halt safely. So there
is at most one candidate that is not fully randomly accessed.
Since there are at least d − 1 candidates that are fully randomly accessed, and hence each have at
leastm − 2 random accesses, the random access cost of A is at least (d − 1)(m − 2)cR. Hence, the
middleware cost of A is at least (d − 1)(m − 2)cR =ψ, as desired.
So in either case, the middleware cost of algorithm A on the resulting database is at least ψ. How-
ever, there is an algorithm inA that accesses the topd objects in lists 1 and 2, and then makes a random
access to object T in each of lists 3, ... ,m. Its middleware cost is 2dcS + (m − 2)cR. By choosing
d sufﬁciently large, the ratio (d−1)(m−2)cR
2dcS +(m−2)cR
can be made as close as desired to m−2
2
cR
cS
. The theorem
follows.
The next theorem is somewhat redundant (except for the fact t hat it deals with probabilistic algo-
rithms), because of Theorem 9.1. We give it because its proof is simple, and because we generalize the
proof in the theorem following it.
Theorem 9.3: Let t be an arbitrary monotone, strict aggregation function with m arguments. Let D
be the class of all databases. Let A be the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the top k answers
for t for every database and that do not make wild guesses. There is no deterministic algorithm (or
even probabilistic algorithm that never makes a mistake) th at is instance optimal over A and D, with
optimality ratio less thanm/2.
Proof: As in the proof of Theorem 9.1, we can assume without loss of ge nerality thatk = 1 . We now
deﬁne a family of databases, each with m sorted lists. There is a parameter d. The top dm values in
each of the lists is 1, and all remaining values are 0. There is only one object T that has a value of 1
in more than one of the lists, and this object T has value 1 in all of the lists. Therefore T has overall
grade 1, and every other object has overall grade 0. Suppose t hatT has position d in one of the lists,
and positiondm in all of the other lists.
Let A be an arbitrary deterministic algorithm inA. Consider the following distribution on databases:
each member is as above, and the list where T appears in positiond is chosen uniformly at random. It
is easy to see that the expected number of sorted accesses und er this distribution of algorithm A is at
least (dm + 1)/2. Since there must be some database where the number of sorted accesses is at least
equal to the expected number of sorted accesses, the number o f sorted accesses on this database is at
least (dm + 1)/2, and so the middleware cost of A on the resulting database is at least (dm + 1)cS/2.
However, there is an algorithm in A that makesd sorted accesses and m − 1 random accesses, and so
has middleware costdcS + (m − 1)cR. By choosing d sufﬁciently large, the ratio (dm+1)cS /2
dcS +(m−1)cR
can be
made as close as desired tom/2. The theorem follows (in the deterministic case).
In the case of probabilistic algorithms that never makes a mistake, we conclude as in the conclusion
of the proof of Theorem 6.4.
34

In the proof of Theorem 8.10, we showed that under the assumptions of Theorem 8.10 (the distinct-
ness property with min as the aggregation function), the optimality ratio of CA is at most 5m. The next
theorem gives a lower bound that is linear inm.
Theorem 9.4: Let D be the class of all databases that satisfy the distinctness p roperty. Let A be the
class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the top k answers for min for every database. There is no
deterministic algorithm (or even probabilistic algorithm that never makes a mistake) that is instance
optimal over A and D, with optimality ratio less thanm/2.
Proof: The proof is obtained from the proof of Theorem 9.3 by modifyi ng the construction slightly to
guarantee that we consider only databases that satisfy the d istinctness property. The simple details are
left to the reader.
The next theorem gives a matching lower bound for the upper bound on the optimality ratio of NRA
given in the proof of Theorem 8.4, provided the aggregation function is strict.
Theorem 9.5: Lett be an arbitrary monotone, strict aggregation function withm arguments. Let D be
the class of all databases. Let A be the class of all algorithms that correctly ﬁnd the top k objects fort
for every database and that do not make random accesses. Ther e is no deterministic algorithm that is
instance optimal over A and D, with optimality ratio less thanm.
Proof: As in the proof of Theorem 9.1, we can assume without loss of generality thatk = 1. We restrict
our attention to a subfamily D′ of D, by making use of a positive integer parameter d. The family D′
contains every database of the following form.
There are 2m special objects T1,...,T m,T ′
1,...,T ′
m. There is only one object T in the database
with a grade of 1 in every list, and it is one of the 2m special objects. Thus, the top object T is one of
the special objects. For eachi, let us refer to listi as the challenge list for the special objectsTi andT ′
i .
For eachi, the top 2m − 2 objects in listi are precisely the special objects except for Ti andT ′
i . Thus,
no special object is in the top 2m − 2 of its challenge list, but all of the other special objects ar e. The
topd objects in each list have grade 1, and every remaining object in each list has grade 0. IfT =Ti or
T =T ′
i , thenT is in position d in listi. Thus, the unique top object is at position d in some list. Note
that each special object is at or below positiond in its challenge list, and exactly one special object (the
top object) is at positiond in its challenge list.
Let A be an arbitrary deterministic algorithm in A. We now show, by an adversary argument, that
the adversary can force A to have sorted access cost at least dm on some database in D′. The idea is
that the adversary dynamically adjusts the database as each query comes in from A, in such a way as to
evade allowing A to determine the top element until as late as possible.
The ﬁrstm−1 times that algorithmA reaches positiond in a list, the adversary forcesA to encounter
some object that is not special in position d. Thus, the ﬁrst time that the adversary allows algorithm A
to encounter a special object after position 2m − 2 is at position d of the last list i that it accesses to
depthd. Only at that time does the adversary allow the algorithm to d iscover which of Ti orT ′
i is the
top object.
It is clear that the sorted access cost of A on this resulting database is at leastdm. However, there is
an algorithm in A that makes at mostd sorted accesses to one list and 2m − 2 sorted accesses to each of
35

D Every D; Distinctness; Distinctness;
t Everyt Ref. t SM Ref. t SMV or Ref.
A min
Every TA:cm2 Thm 6.5 CA: 4m +k ; Thm 8.9
correct A No instance 5m for min Thm 8.10
(wild optimal algorithm Lower bound: Lower bound:
guesses ok) possible Thm 6.4 m−2
2
cR
cS
Thm 9.2 m
2 Thm 9.4
(certaint)
No wild TA:m + (m−1)m
2
cR
cS
Thm 6.1
guesses
Lower bound:
m + (m−1)m
2
cR
cS
Thm 9.1
(t strict)
No random NRA:m Thm 8.5
access
Lower bound:
m Thm 9.5
(t strict)
Table 1: Summary of Upper and Lower Bounds
the remaining lists, for a total of at mostd + (m − 1)(2m − 2) sorted accesses. and so has middleware
cost at most (d + (m − 1)(2m − 2))cS. By choosing d sufﬁciently large, the ratio dmcS
(d+(m−1)(2m−2)cS
can be made as close as desired tom. The theorem follows.
9.1 Summary of upper and lower bounds
Table 1 summarizes our upper and lower bounds. The rows correspond to the different restrictions on the
set A of algorithms, and the columns to the restrictions on the setD of databases and on the aggregation
functiont. Note that “SM” means “strictly monotone” and “SMV” means “s trictly monotone in each
variable.” “Distinctness” means thatD is the collection of databases that satisfy the distinctness property.
Note also thatc = max { cR
cS
, cS
cR
}. For each such combination we provide our upper and lower bou nds,
along with the theorem where these bounds are proven. The upp er bounds are stated above the single
separating lines and the lower bounds are below them. (The upper bounds are stated explicitly after the
proofs of the referenced theorems.) The lower bounds may be deterministic or probabilistic.
10 Related Work
Nepal and Ramakrishna [ ?] deﬁne an algorithm that is equivalent to TA. Their notion of optimality is
weaker than ours. Further, they make an assumption that is es sentially equivalent to the aggregation
36

function being the min.16
G¨ untzer, Balke, and Kiessling [?] also deﬁne an algorithm that is equivalent to TA. They call t his
algorithm “Quick-Combine (basic version)” to distinguishit from their algorithm of interest, which they
call “Quick-Combine”. The difference between these two algorithms is that Quick-Combine provides a
heuristic rule that determines which sorted list Li to do the next sorted access on. The intuitive idea is
that they wish to speed up TA by taking advantage of skewed dis tributions of grades.17 They make no
claims of optimality. Instead, they do extensive simulations to compare Quick-Combine against FA (but
they do not compare Quick-Combine against TA).
We feel that it is an interesting problem to ﬁnd good heuristi cs as to which list should be accessed
next under sorted access. Such heuristics can potentially l ead to some speedup of TA (but the number
of sorted accesses can decrease by a factor of at most m, the number of lists). Unfortunately, there
are several problems with the heuristic used by Quick-Combi ne. The ﬁrst problem is that it involves
a partial derivative, which is not deﬁned for certain aggreg ation functions (such as min). Even more
seriously, it is easy to ﬁnd a family of examples that shows that as a result of using the heuristic, Quick-
Combine is not instance optimal. We note that heuristics that modify TA by deciding which list should
be accessed next under sorted access can be forced to be insta nce optimal simply by insuring that each
list is accessed under sorted access at least everyu steps, for some constantu.
In another paper, G¨ untzer, Balke, and Kiessling [?] consider the situation where random accesses
are impossible. Once again, they deﬁne a basic algorithm, ca lled “Stream-Combine (basic version)”
and a modiﬁed algorithm (“Stream-Combine”) that incorporates a heuristic rule that tells which sorted
list Li to do a sorted access on next. Neither version of Stream-Comb ine is instance optimal. The
reason that the basic version of Stream-Combine is not insta nce optimal is that it considers only upper
bounds on overall grades of objects, unlike our algorithm NR A, which considers both upper and lower
bounds. They require that the top k objects be given with their grades (whereas as we discussed, we do
not require the grades to be given in the case where random acc esses are impossible). Their algorithm
cannot say that an object is in the top k unless that object has been seen in every sorted list. Note
that there are monotone aggregation functions (such as max, or more interestingly, median) where it is
possible to determine the overall grade of an object without knowing its grade in each sorted list.
Natsev et al. [?] note that the scenario we have been studying can be thought of as taking joins over
sorted lists where the join is over a unique record ID present in all the sorted lists. They generalize by
considering arbitrary joins.
11 Conclusions and Open Problems
We studied the elegant and remarkably simple algorithm TA, as well as algorithms for the scenario where
random access is impossible or expensive relative to sorted access (NRA and CA). To study these algo-
rithms, we introduced the instance optimality framework in the context of aggregation algorithms, and
16 The assumption that Nepal and Ramakrishna make is that the ag gregation function t satisﬁes the lower bounding prop-
erty. This property says that whenever there is some i such that xi ≤ x′
j for every j, then t(x1, . . . , x m) ≤ t(x′
1, . . . , x ′
m).
It is not hard to see that if an aggregation function t satisﬁes the lower bounding property, then t(x1, . . . , x m) =
f (min {x1, . . . , x m}), where f (x) = t(x, . . . , x ). Note in particular that under the natural assumption that t(x, . . . , x ) = x,
so that f (x) = x, we have t(x1, . . . , x m) = min {x1, . . . , x m}.
17They make the claim that the optimality results proven in [ ?] about FA do not hold for a skewed distribution of grades,
but only for a uniform distribution. This claim is incorrect: the only probabilistic assumption in [?] is that the orderings given
by the sorted lists are probabilistically independent.
37

provided both positive and negative results. This framework is appropriate for analyzing and comparing
the performance of algorithms, and provides a very strong no tion of optimality. We also considered
approximation algorithms, and provided positive and negative results about instance optimality there as
well.
Open problems: Let us say that an algorithm is tightly instance optimal (over A and D) if it is
instance optimal (over A and D) and if its optimality ratio is best possible. Thus, Corolla ry 8.6 says
that NRA is tightly instance optimal, and Corollary 6.2 says that in the case of no wild guesses and a
strict aggregation function, TA is tightly instance optima l. In the case of no wild guesses, for which
aggregation functions is TA tightly instance optimal?18 What are the possible optimality ratios? For the
other cases where we showed instance optimality of one of our algorithms (as shown in Table 1), is the
algorithm in question in fact tightly instance optimal? For cases where our algorithms might turn out
not to be tightly instance optimal, what other algorithms are tightly instance optimal?
There are several other interesting lines of investigation . One is to ﬁnd other scenarios where in-
stance optimality can yield meaningful results. Another is to ﬁnd other applications of our algorithms,
such as in information retrieval. We already mentioned (Remark 8.7 and Section 8.4) the issue of ﬁnding
efﬁcient data structures for NRA and CA in cases of interest, and of comparing CA versus TA.
12 Acknowledgments
We are grateful to Michael Franklin for discussions that led to this research, to Miklos Ajtai, Allan
Borodin, Erik Demaine, David Johnson, Madhu Sudan, Andrew T omkins and Mihalis Yannakakis for
useful suggestions, and to Larry Stockmeyer for helpful comments that improved readability.
18As noted earlier, when the aggregation functiont is max, which is not strict, TA is tightly instance optimal, with optimality
ratio m. Similarly, when t is a constant, TA is tightly instance optimal, with optimality ratio 1. There are aggregation functions
where TA is not tightly instance optimal. For example deﬁne t by letting t(x1, . . . , x m) = min( x1, x 2). It is not hard to see
that TA is not tightly instance optimal for this choice of t when m ≥ 3.
38