1
Survey on Algorithms for Self-Stabilizing Overlay Networks
MICHAEL FELDMANN, Paderborn University, Germany
CHRISTIAN SCHEIDELER, Paderborn University, Germany
STEFAN SCHMID, Faculty of Computer Science, University of Vienna, Austria
The maintenance of efficient and robust overlay networks is one of the most fundamental and reoccurring
themes in networking. This paper presents a survey of state-of-the-art algorithms to design and repair
overlay networks in a distributed manner. In particular, we discuss basic algorithmic primitives to preserve
connectivity, review algorithms for the fundamental problem of graph linearization, and then survey self-
stabilizing algorithms for metric and scalable topologies. We also identify open problems and avenues for
future research.
CCS Concepts: • Theory of computation→ Distributed algorithms; Self-organization; • Networks→ Net-
work algorithms; Overlay and other logical network structures .
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Self-stabilization, overlay networks, topological self-stabilization, dis-
tributed algorithms, resilience, dependability
ACM Reference Format:
Michael Feldmann, Christian Scheideler, and Stefan Schmid. 2020. Survey on Algorithms for Self-Stabilizing
Overlay Networks. ACM Comput. Surv. 1, 1, Article 1 (January 2020), 24 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3397190
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was partially supported by the German Research Foundation (DFG) within the Collabora-
tive Research Centre On-The-Fly Computing (GZ: SFB 901/3) under the project number 160364472
and by ERC Consolidator grant Self-Adjusting Networks, No. 864228.
1 INTRODUCTION
Many distributed systems today rely on some kind ofoverlay network connecting the communicating
nodes or “peers” of an application using logical links: each link corresponds to a path, potentially
through many physical links, in the underlying network. The most prominent example are overlay
networks over the Internet which allow to route messages according to logical addresses rather
than IP addresses, introducing great flexibilities. Well-known overlay networks include Chord [59],
Pastry [53], Tapestry [62], CAN [48], Kademlia [42], Viceroy [48], Koorde [28], SkipNet [23], among
many others [4, 34, 43]. More recently, overlays are also used by content distribution providers such
as Akamai [24], or in crypto-currency infrastructures (e.g., Bitcoin [47]), to improve scalability.
Overlay networks are often fairly transient and dynamic, i.e., nodes join and leave frequently.
They hence require mechanisms to support changing memberships. Reasons for such dynamic
membership include, e.g., the limited time window during which users are interested in contents
Authors’ addresses: Michael Feldmann, Paderborn University, Paderborn, Germany, michael.feldmann@upb.de; Christian
Scheideler, Paderborn University, Paderborn, Germany, scheideler@upb.de; Stefan Schmid, Faculty of Computer Science,
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the
full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored.
Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2020 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
0360-0300/2020/1-ART1 $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3397190
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

1:2 Feldmann et al.
shared in a peer-to-peer network, changing popularity of contents, diurnal patterns, failures, etc.
Peer-to-peer systems are particularly dynamic as they are designed for open membership and are
self-organizing. In general, with an increasing scale, distributed systems are likely to become more
dynamic and have to deal with nodes continuously entering and leaving the system.
Besides efficiency, fault-tolerance is arguably one of the most important requirements of large-
scale overlay networks. Overlay topologies are usually maintained by the nodes (a.k.a. peers)
themselves. Therefore, distributed algorithms are needed to maintain the overlay network and
support joining, leaving, and routing between the nodes. These distributed algorithms should
also be scalable, given the large size of many overlay networks. Furthermore, such algorithms
cannot rely on the assumption that all peers leave the network gracefully, e.g., execute a pre-
defined “leave protocol” before departure. Rather, many peers are likely to leave unexpectedly (e.g.,
crash). Furthermore, topological changes may also happen due to attacks: the larger and hence
more popular the overlay network, the more attractive it also becomes for attackers. For example,
adversarial nodes may join and leave the network strategically [54], to occupy strategic positions
in the overlay or eclipse other nodes. Malicious nodes may further disconnect other nodes by
overloading them with requests (denial-of-service attack).
It is hence difficult in practice to rely on certain invariants and assumptions on what can and what
cannot happen during the (possibly very long) lifetime of an overlay. Accordingly, it is important
that a distributed overlay network be able to automatically recover from unexpected or even
arbitrary situations. This recovery should also be quick: once in an illegal state, the overlay network
may be more vulnerable to further changes or attacks.
This motivates the study of self-stabilizing overlay networks. Self-stabilzation is a very powerful
concept in fault-tolerance: self-stabilizing algorithms guarantee that in the absence of external influ-
ences, they reconverge to a desirable state fromany initial state (known as theconvergence property),
and then preserves this state (known as the closure property). The notion of self-stabilization was
first coined by E.W. Dijkstra in 1974 [12]. Leslie Lamport, in his ACM PODC 1983 keynote address,
acknowledged self-stabilization as one of the most brillant concepts introduced by Dijkstra [35].
In general, the design of self-stabilizing algorithms is fairly well-understood today. Since Dijk-
stra’s paper, self-stabilization has been studied in many contexts, including graph theory problems,
termination detection, clock synchronization, and fault containment [13]. In the context of commu-
nication networks, many self-stabilizing algorithms exist, from spanning tree construction [46]
to software-defined control [ 10]. In fact, already in the late 1980s, very powerful results have
been obtained on how any synchronous, not fault-tolerant local network algorithm can be trans-
formed into a very robust, self-stabilizing algorithm which performs well both in synchronous
and asynchronous environments [5, 6, 36]. However, while these transformations are attractive
to strengthen the robustness of local algorithms on a given network topology, e.g., for designing
self-stabilizing spanning trees, they are not applicable, or only applicable at high costs, in overlay
overlay networks where the topology is subject to change and optimization itself. Indeed, many
decentralized overlay networks (including well-known examples like Chord) are not self-stabilizing,
in the sense that the proposed protocols only manage to recover the network from a restricted
class of illegal states [1, 3, 59].
Informally, the self-stabilizing overlay network design problem is the following:
(1) An adversary can manipulate the peers’ neighborhood (and hence topology) information
arbitrarily. In particular, it can remove and add arbitrary nodes and links.
(2) As soon as the adversary stops manipulating the overlay topology, say at some unknown
time𝑡0, the self-stabilization protocols will ensure that eventually, and in the absence of
further adversarial changes, a desired topology is reached.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

Survey on Algorithms for Self-Stabilizing Overlay Networks 1:3
As any self-stabilizing algorithm, a topologically self-stabilizing algorithm must guarantee
convergence and closure properties: by local neighborhood changes (i.e., by creating, forwarding,
and deleting links with neighboring nodes), the nodes will eventually form an overlay topology
with desirable properties (e.g., polylogarithmic degree and diameter) from any initial topology. The
system will also stay in a desirable configuration provided that no further external topological
changes occur.
We also note the basic fact that in order for a distributed self-stabilizing algorithm to recover
any connected topology, the initial topology must at least be weakly connected. A directed graph
𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) is weakly connected, if the undirected version of𝐺, namely𝐺′ =(𝑉,𝐸 ′) is connected,
i.e., for two nodes𝑢,𝑣 ∈𝑉 there is a path from𝑢 to𝑣 in𝐺′.
In this paper, we present a survey on distributed algorithms for maintaining overlay networks. In
contrast to the vast existing literature on overlay network designs and algorithms (e.g. [37, 41, 50]),
our focus is on self-stabilizing algorithms. In Section 2, we first present a generic model which is
useful to design and analyze topologically self-stabilizing algorithms. In Section 3, we discuss the
basic primitives of manipulating neighborhoods while preserving connectivity, and discuss their
application in the design of self-stabilizing algorithms. Section 4 presents self-stabilizing algorithms
for a basic line topology, and we extend our study to metric graphs in Section 5. We discuss scalable
topologies and in particular, expander graphs, in Section 6. We survey additional relevant aspects
related to monotonic searchability and node departures in Section 7. In Section 8, we conclude and
identify open problems.
2 A BASIC MODEL OF TOPOLOGICAL SELF-STABILIZATION
Let us introduce the basic and standard model for self-stabilizing overlay networks. The overlay
network is represented as a directed graph𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) with𝑛 =|𝑉|. We assume that the set of nodes
is static as otherwise a termination of the self-stabilization process may not be reached (this has
been shown in [7]). Each peer in the system is represented by a node𝑣∈𝑉 . Each node𝑣∈𝑉 can
be identified by its unique reference or its unique identifier𝑣.𝑖𝑑∈ N (called ID). Additionally, each
node𝑣 maintains local protocol-based variables and has a channel𝑣.𝐶ℎ, which is a system-based
variable that contains incoming messages. The message capacity of a channel is unbounded and
messages never get lost. If a node𝑢 knows the reference of some other node𝑣, then𝑢 can send a
message𝑚 to𝑣 by putting𝑚 into𝑣.𝐶ℎ.
We distinguish between two different types of actions: The first type is used for standard proce-
dures and has the form⟨𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙⟩(⟨𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑚𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑠⟩) :⟨𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑑⟩, where𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙 is the name of that action,
𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑚𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑠 defines the information needed for the execution of this action, and𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑑 defines
the statements that are executed when calling that action. It may be called locally or remotely, i.e.,
every message that is sent to a node has the form⟨𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙⟩(⟨𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑚𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑠⟩). The second action type
has the form⟨𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙⟩ :(⟨𝑔𝑢𝑎𝑟𝑑⟩)−→⟨ 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑑⟩, where𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙 and𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑑 are defined as above
and𝑔𝑢𝑎𝑟𝑑 is a predicate over local variables. An action for some node𝑢 may only be executed if its
guard is𝑡𝑟𝑢𝑒 or if there is a message in𝑢.𝐶ℎ that requests to call the action. In both cases, we call
the action enabled. An action whose guard is simply𝑡𝑟𝑢𝑒 is executed periodically. When a node𝑢
processes a message𝑚, then𝑚 is removed from𝑢.𝐶ℎ.
We define the system state to be an assignment of a value to every node’s variables and messages
to each channel. A computation is an infinite sequence of system states, where the state𝑠𝑖+1 can be
reached from its previous state𝑠𝑖 by executing an action that is enabled in𝑠𝑖. We call the first state
of a given computation theinitial state. We assumefair message receipt, meaning that every message
of the form ⟨𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙⟩(⟨𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑚𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑠⟩) that is contained in some channel, is eventually processed.
Furthermore, we assume weakly fair action execution , meaning that if an action is enabled in all
but finitely many states of a computation, then this action is executed infinitely often. We place
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

1:4 Feldmann et al.
no bounds on message propagation delay or relative node execution speed, i.e., we allow for fully
asynchronous computations and non-FIFO message delivery. A self-stabilizing protocol does not
manipulate node identifiers and thus only operates on them in compare-store-send mode. That
is, we are only allowed to compare node IDs to each other, store them in a node’s local memory,
or send them in a message. Note that we compute the hash value of a node’s identifier in some
protocols, but this does not manipulate the ID itself.
We are interested in the formation and maintenance of a certain graph topology that connects the
nodes. As it is standard, we assume that there are no corrupted IDs in the initial state of the system,
i.e., node IDs are read-only. Note that we are not able to repair initially corrupted node IDs within
the scope of this model, as we do not consider the usage of failure detectors. Thus we can assume
that node IDs are always correct in all states, as our protocol is compare-store-send. Nevertheless,
node channels may contain an arbitrary amount of messages containing false information in initial
states: We call these messages corrupted. We say the system is in a legitimate (stable) state, if the
nodes and the edges form the desired graph topology and there are no corrupted messages in the
system. We are now ready to define what it means for a protocol to be self-stabilizing:
Definition 2.1 (Self-stabilization). A protocol is self-stabilizing if it satisfies the following two
properties:
• Convergence: Starting from an arbitrary system state, the protocol is guaranteed to arrive
at a legitimate state.
• Closure: Starting from a legitimate state, the protocol remains in legitimate states thereafter.
There is a directed edge(𝑢,𝑣)∈ 𝐸, if𝑢 stores the reference of𝑣 in its local memory or if there is
a message in𝑢.𝐶ℎ carrying the reference of𝑣. In the former case, we call that edge explicit and in
the latter case we call that edge implicit. In order for our distributed algorithms to work, we require
the directed graph𝐺 containing all explicit and implicit edges to stay at least weakly connected at
every point in time. Once there are multiple weakly connected components in𝐺, these components
cannot be connected to each other anymore as it has been shown in [44] for compare-store-send
protocols. For a graph that contains multiple weakly connected components, our protocol converts
each of these components to our desired topology.
In general, the following performance metrics are most relevant in topological self-stabilization:
(1) Convergence Time: Assuming a synchronous environment (or assuming an upper bound on
the message transmission per link), the distributed convergence time measures how many
(parallel) communication rounds are required until the final topology is reached.
(2) Work: The work measures how many edges are inserted, changed, or removed in total, during
the covergence process.
3 FROM CONNECTIVITY PRIMITIVES TO SELF-STABILIZING ALGORITHMS
Before designing distributed algorithms to maintain and repair topologies, we need to answer
a most fundamental question: how can nodes manipulate their neighborhoods locally, without
risking to lose connectivity? And more generally: which primitives exist that allow to iteratively
and locally change a graph, such that it eventually reaches its desired final state? Such connectivity
primitive operations are a prerequisite for the self-stabilizing convergence.
The identification of such primitives however does not yet answer the question how a distributed
self-stabilizing algorithm can actually use them. In the following, we hence first discuss the universal
primitives for reliable connectivity, and then discuss their use in algorithms.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

Survey on Algorithms for Self-Stabilizing Overlay Networks 1:5
3.1 Universal Primitives for Reliable Connectivity
Universal connectivity primitives are local graph operations which allow us to transform any
topology into any other topology. While we focus on feasibility in the following, we will later use
these primitives to design topologically self-stabilizing algorithms.
Let us first define the notion of links(𝑢,𝑣). Links can either be explicit or implicit. An explicit
link(𝑢,𝑣) (in the following depicted as solid line) means that𝑢 knows𝑣, i.e.,𝑢 stores a reference of𝑣
(e.g.,𝑣’s IP address). An implicit link(𝑢,𝑣) (depicted as dashed line) means that a message including
𝑣’s reference is currently in transit to𝑢 (from some arbitrary sender). We are often interested in the
union of the two kinds of links.
As discussed above, a first most fundamental principle in the design of distributed self-stabilizing
algorithms is that links can never be deleted:
Rule 1.1. During the execution of a topologically self-stabilizing algorithm, weak connectivity must
always be preserved. In particular, a pointer (i.e., information about a peer) can never be deleted.
If a link is removed, it may happen that this link is the only link connecting two otherwise
disconnected components. Clearly, once disconnected, connectivity can never be established again.
u
v
w
u
v
w
u
v
w
u
v
w
u v u v
u v u v
Introduce:
Forward:
Merge:
Invert:
Fig. 1.1. Basic connectivity primitives ( solid: explicit edges dashed: implicit edges).
We next identify four basic primitives which preserve connectivity (cf. Figure 1.1): Introduce,
Forward, Merge, Invert.
(1) Introduce: Assume node𝑢 has a pointer to nodes𝑣 and𝑤: there are two directed links(𝑢,𝑣)
and(𝑢,𝑤). Then,𝑢 can introduce𝑤 to𝑣 by sending the pointer to𝑤 to𝑣.
(2) Forward: Assume node 𝑢 has a pointer to nodes 𝑣 and𝑤, i.e.,(𝑢,𝑣) and(𝑢,𝑤). Then,𝑢
forwards the reference to𝑤 to𝑣 and removes the reference of𝑤 from its local memory.
(3) Merge: If𝑢 has two pointers to𝑣, i.e.,(𝑢,𝑣) and(𝑢,𝑣), then𝑢 can merge the two.
(4) Invert: If𝑢 is connected to𝑣, it can invert the link(𝑢,𝑣) to(𝑣,𝑢) by forwarding a pointer to
itself to𝑣, and delete the reference to𝑣.
It is easy to see that these primitives indeed preserve weak connectivity. In fact one can show
that the Introduce, Forward, and Merge operations even preserve strong connectivity. We also
note that we need a compare operation to implement the merge operation: namely, we need to be
able to test whether two references point to the same node.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

1:6 Feldmann et al.
These operations turn out to be very powerful. In fact, three of them are sufficient to transform
any weakly connected graph into any strongly connected graph. In other words, they are weakly
universal:
Theorem 3.1. The three primitives Introduce, Forward, and Merge are weakly universal: they
are sufficient to turn any weakly connected graph 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) into any strongly connected graph
𝐺′ =(𝑉,𝐸 ′).
We just provide intuition for this theorem and refer to [50] for more details. Essentially, the proof
proceeds in two stages, from𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) to a complete graph (the clique), and from the clique to
𝐺′ =(𝑉,𝐸 ′). In the first stage, if in each communication round, each node introduces its neighbors
to each other as well as itself to its neighbors, we reach a clique after 𝑂(log𝑛) communication
rounds. Due to weak connectivity, it follows that for any two nodes𝑣 and𝑤, there is a path from
𝑣 to𝑤 (ignoring link directions). For the second stage, assume𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) is a clique. Then using
Forward and Merge operations, we can transform𝐺 into𝐺′ as follows (without removing edges in
𝐺′). Let(𝑢,𝑤) be an arbitrary edge which needs to be removed, i.e.,(𝑢,𝑤) ∉𝐸′. Since𝐺′ =(𝑉,𝐸 ′)
is strongly connected, there is a shortest directed path from𝑢 to𝑤 in𝐺′. Let𝑣 be the next node
along this path. Now node𝑢 can forward(𝑢,𝑤) to𝑣, i.e.,(𝑢,𝑤) becomes(𝑣,𝑤). This will reduce
the distance between an unused node pair in𝐺′ by 1, and since the maximal distance is𝑛− 1, the
distance of a superfluous edge can be reduced at most𝑛− 1 many times before it merges with an
edge in𝐺′. Thus, we eventually obtain𝐺′.
All four primitives together are even universal: they are sufficient to transform any weakly
connected graph into any weakly connected graph.
Theorem 3.2. The four primitives Introduce, Forward, Merge, and Invert are universal: they
are sufficient to turn any weakly connected graph 𝐺 = (𝑉,𝐸) into any weakly connected graph
𝐺′ =(𝑉,𝐸 ′).
The intuition for this theorem is as follows. Let𝐺′′ =(𝑉,𝐸 ′′) be the graph in which for each
edge(𝑢,𝑣)∈ 𝐸′, both edges(𝑢,𝑣) and(𝑣,𝑢) are in𝐸′′. Note that𝐺′′ is strongly connected. Now,
according to Theorem 3.1, it is possible to transform any𝐺 to𝐺′′. So in order to transform𝐺′′ to
𝐺′, we need the Invert primitive, to remove undesired edges: we invert any undesired edge(𝑢,𝑣)
to(𝑣,𝑢) and then merge it with(𝑣,𝑢).
Interestingly, the primitives are not only sufficient but also necessary.
Theorem 3.3. The four primitives Introduce, Forward, Merge, and Invert are also necessary.
The reason is that Introduce is the only primitive which generates an edge, Forward is the
only primitive which separates a node pair, Merge is the only primitive which removes an edge,
and Inversion is the only primitive rendering a node unreachable (as one can see in Figure 1.1
we cannot go from𝑢 to𝑣 anymore once we inverted the explicit edge(𝑢,𝑣) into the implicit edge
(𝑣,𝑢)).
3.2 From Connectivity Primitives to Self-Stabilizing Algorithms
Universal primitives allow us to transform any weakly-connected graph 𝐺 into any weakly-
connected graph𝐺′. However, the mere existence or feasibility of such transformations is often not
interesting in practice, if there do not exist efficient distributed algorithms to find a transformation.
Before we show how to derive distributed algorithms, we introduce some fundamental concepts
and provide some additional insights into how connectivity can be maintained. A central require-
ment in topologically self-stabilizing systems is monotonic reachability: if𝑣 is reachable from𝑢 at
time𝑡, using explicit or implicit edges, then, if no further failures or errors occur and given a static
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

Survey on Algorithms for Self-Stabilizing Overlay Networks 1:7
node set,𝑣 is also reachable from𝑢 at any time𝑡′ >𝑡. The following theorem can easily be proved
by induction, as long as there are no references to non-existing nodes in the system.
Theorem 3.4. The Introduce, Forward, and Merge operations fulfill monotonic reachability.
Remarks:
(1) There is also the concept of monotonic searchability: if𝑢 can send a message at time𝑡 that is
successfully delivered to𝑣 according to some routing protocolR, then any further message
generated at𝑢 at time𝑡′ >𝑡 with𝑣 as its destination is successfully delivered. Monotonic
reachability is necessary to implement monotonic searchability, it is not sufficient. We will
later (in Section 7) discuss how to realize also monotonic searchability.
(2) One particularly annoying challenge in the design of self-stabilizing algorithms is due to the
fact that there may still be corrupted messages in transit in the system. Such messages can
threaten the correctness of an algorithm later. In particular, corrupted messages may violate
the closure property: although initially in a legal state, the system may move to an illegal
state. The set of legal states is hence only a subset of the “correct states”.
As it has already been stated by Theorem 3.1, the primitives Introduce, Forward and Merge
not only fulfill monotonic reachability but are also weakly universal, so applying these can turn
any weakly connected graph into a strongly connected one. This is sufficient for most topologies
in practice because usually each node should be allowed to send messages to any other node. It
is however not clear on the first glance how to progress from any illegal state to a legitimate one
using these primitives. Therefore we need mechanisms to ensure the convergence of the system. A
universal approach for this could be to combine a mechanism that allows nodes to find out in finite
time if the system is in an illegal state with the transitive closure framework (see Section 6.3). On
the positive side, being able to check if the system is in an illegal state is usually possible, allowing
the creation of a clique in order to “reset” the system as it is demonstrated in the transitive closure
framework. However, in general this is very inefficient because the amount of work for each node
can grow linear in the size of the network. Therefore, researchers came up with more efficient
protocols tailored to more specific topologies.
4 TOPOLOGICALLY SELF-STABILIZING LINEARIZATION
Many topologically self-stabilizing protocols rely on some basic Linearization algorithm [19, 26, 52].
Using linearization, one can establish an ordering of nodes legitimate states. In this section we first
present the idea of linearization based on a self-stabilizing protocol for a sorted list [45]. We call
that protocol BuildList for the remainder of this survey. Afterwards we explore a protocol for a de
Bruijn graph that relies on the linearization technique.
4.1 Linearization Protocol
Before we can describe the actions of BuildList, we need to define the variables for a node 𝑢:
A pointer𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 storing𝑢’s closest left neighbor and a pointer 𝑢.𝑟𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡 storing𝑢’s closest right
neighbor. The idea of BuildList is that each node always wants to keep its closest left and right
neighbors (based on local information only) and delegate all remaining outgoing connections using
the Forward primitive.
More formally, BuildList consists of two actions Timeout and Linearize, where Timeout is
executed periodically at each node, and Linearize can be called locally or remotely.
In Timeout, a node𝑢 first performs a consistency check on its variables𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 and𝑢.𝑟𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡 : It
may happen that in initial states𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 >𝑢 (or𝑢.𝑟𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡 <𝑢). If that is the case then𝑢 resets the
node assignment to 𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 (or𝑢.𝑟𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡 ) and locally calls Linearize(𝑤) for the removed node 𝑤.
Furthermore𝑢 introduces itself to𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 and𝑢.𝑟𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡 via the Introduce primitive in Timeout.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

1:8 Feldmann et al.
When processing a Linearize(𝑤) message at𝑢 with𝑤 <𝑢, then𝑢 first compares the identifier
of𝑤 with its own identifier and the identifier of𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 . Node𝑢 distinguishes between the following
two cases:
(i) 𝑤 <𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 : This case leads to𝑢 forwarding𝑤 to𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 by calling Linearize(𝑤) on𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 .
(ii) 𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 <𝑤 <𝑢: In this case𝑢 replaces𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 by𝑤 and forwards the old value of𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 to𝑤
via a Linearize call.
We proceed analogously at node𝑢 in case𝑤 >𝑢, this time considering𝑢.𝑟𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡 instead of𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 .
Consider Figure 1.2 for a visualization of the different cases for Linearize.
u w u w
u w u w
w u w u
w u w u
u.right
u.right
u.right
u.right
u.left u.left
u.left
u.left
Right Linearization:
Left Linearization:
Fig. 1.2. Different cases when calling Linearize(𝑤) at node𝑢.
Using the above actions, one can show that BuildList satisfies convergence and closure, culmi-
nating in the following theorem:
Theorem 4.1. BuildList is self-stabilizing, i.e.,
(i) BuildList transforms any weakly connected graph 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) into a sorted list after 𝑂(𝑛)
rounds (Convergence) and
(ii) if the explicit edges in 𝐺 already form a sorted list, then they are preserved at any point in time
(Closure).
We provide some intuition for the proof: To show convergence, consider a pair of nodes(𝑢,𝑣)
with𝑢 <𝑣 that is adjacent in legitimate states. As the graph𝐺 is weakly connected, there exists
an undirected path 𝑃 between𝑢 and𝑣. Consider the potential function Φ = 𝑣𝑟−𝑣𝑙, where𝑣𝑙 is
the process with minimum identifier in𝑃 and𝑣𝑟 the process with maximum identifier in𝑃. One
can show that Φ monotonically decreases over time until Φ =𝑣−𝑢 corresponding to(𝑢,𝑣) being
directly connected, which implies convergence. The bound on the convergence time stems from the
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

Survey on Algorithms for Self-Stabilizing Overlay Networks 1:9
fact that an implicit edge to some node𝑣 has to be delegated along the whole list in a worst-case
scenario: In case the list is already fully built with only one edge missing, there are no shortcut
edges for an implicit edge in order to reach its target, so it has to traverse the whole list.
In order to show closure, we can argue that an explicit edge(𝑢,𝑣) is only forwarded, if𝑢 gets
to know a closer neighboring process than𝑣. But this is not possible as processes already form a
sorted list, so closure holds.
4.2 The Linearized de Bruijn Graph
Linearization has been used as a basis for several other self-stabilizing topologies. In this section
we provide an example for this by examining the linearized de Bruijn graph from [51].
Consider the standard de Bruijn graph:
Definition 4.2. Let𝑑∈ N. The standard (𝑑-dimensional) de Bruijn graph consists of nodes having
labels(𝑥1,...,𝑥 𝑑)∈{ 0, 1}𝑑 and edges(𝑥1,...,𝑥 𝑑)→( 𝑗,𝑥 1,...,𝑥 𝑑−1) for all 𝑗∈{ 0, 1}.
One can route from a source node to a destination node in𝑂(log𝑛) hops via bitshifting if the
network consists of𝑛 nodes.
In order to construct a self-stabilizing protocol for a de Bruijn graph, one can use the linearized
de Bruijn network (first introduced in [43]) to emulate the classical de Bruijn graph. The idea is
to let each real process𝑣 emulate 2 additional virtual processes𝑣0,𝑣1, resulting in the process𝑣
representing 3 nodes𝑣,𝑣 0 and𝑣1. Using a uniform pseudorandom hash functionℎ : N→[ 0, 1),
we project the identifiers of each real process𝑣 onto the[0, 1)-interval. Afterwards we define the
identifiers of the virtual nodes by assigning ℎ(𝑣)
2 to𝑣0 and ℎ(𝑣)+1
2 to𝑣1. A legitimate state of the
system is then defined as the sorted list consisting of all real and virtual nodes ordered by their
identifiers in[0, 1). It has been shown in [43] that such a topology is able to emulate the standard
de Bruijn graph, i.e., routing paths in the linearized de Bruijn network are of length𝑂(log𝑛) w.h.p.
In order to construct a self-stabilizing protocol BuildDeBruijn for the linearized de Bruijn
network we let each real and virtual process run the BuildList protocol from Section 4.1. It is easy
to see that BuildList converts the graph𝐺′ =(𝑉′,𝐸′) with𝑉′ ={𝑣,𝑣 0,𝑣 1|𝑣∈𝑉} into a sorted list
if𝐺′ is weakly connected initially. Unfortunately this is not necessarily the case for initial states,
even if𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) is weakly connected as shown in Figure 1.3.
v w
G=(V,E): G‘=(V‘,E‘):
v0 v1v w0 w1w
Fig. 1.3. Possible initial state for 𝐺′ leaving the node𝑤 isolated.
In order to eventually reach a state where𝐺′ is weakly connected, the authors of [51] introduced
the probing technique. The idea is to let each node𝑣 periodically check if it is in the same connected
component as its virtual nodes𝑣0 and𝑣1. If this is not the case, then𝑣 generates a connection to
𝑣0 and𝑣1 respectively by locally calling Linearize(𝑣0) and Linearize(𝑣1) respectively. To check
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

1:10 Feldmann et al.
if a connection to𝑣0 has to be established, each real process𝑣 does the following: It periodically
sends out a probe along the sorted list to the left. That probe is forwarded along virtual nodes in the
sorted list, until it reaches a real node𝑤.𝑤 then forwards the probe to its virtual node𝑤0. From
this point on we forward the probe to the right in the sorted list until it reaches𝑣0 or it gets stuck
or overruns𝑣0. In the first case we know that𝑣 and𝑣0 are in the same connected component. If one
of the other two cases arises,𝑣 initiates a Linearize(𝑣0) call. The same approach is used in order
to check if𝑣 and𝑣1 are in the same component. Note that the number of hops for each probe is
expected to be𝑂(1) in legitimate states. When combining the BuildList protocol with the probing
approach, one can show the following theorem:
Theorem 4.3. BuildDeBruijn is self-stabilizing, i.e.,
(i) BuildDeBruijn transforms any weakly connected graph 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) into a linearized de Bruijn
network after𝑂(𝑛) rounds (Convergence) and
(ii) if the explicit edges in 𝐺 already form a linearized de Bruijn network, then they are preserved at
any point in time (Closure).
Following a probing approach similar to the one described above, one can realize a self-stabilizing
protocol for the general de Bruijn graph (the𝑞-ary,𝑑-dimensional de Bruijn graph), as it has been
shown in [16]. Compared to the standard (𝑑-dimensional) de Bruijn graph (Definition 4.2), the label
of a node may now consist of sequences of values 𝑗∈{ 0,...,𝑞 } instead of bits.
5 SELF-STABILIZING METRICAL GRAPHS
Linearization is not only a building block for more general and scalable self-stabilizing networks,
as we will discuss them later in this paper, it is also a a good basis for building another important
family of graph topologies: metric graphs.
Definition 5.1. Given a set𝑀, a distance function𝑑 :𝑀 2→ R is a metric if for all𝑥,𝑦,𝑧 ∈𝑀
(i) 𝑑(𝑥,𝑦)≥ 0,
(ii) 𝑑(𝑥,𝑦) = 0 if and only if𝑥 =𝑦,
(iii) 𝑑(𝑥,𝑦) =𝑑(𝑦,𝑥) and
(iv) 𝑑(𝑥,𝑧)≤ 𝑑(𝑥,𝑦)+ 𝑑(𝑦,𝑧).
In the following, we explore graphs that can efficiently be described by a metric, with the focus
on networks for geometrical scenarios. Such networks are relevant for example in the area of
wireless ad-hoc networks. In particular, in this section we will show that the linearization technique
discussed in the previous section can serve as a basis for graphs based on 1-dimensional as well as
circular metrics (cf Section 5.1), as well as tree metrics (cf Section 5.4). However, we will also show
that when assuming that nodes only know the metric function but not the topology (line, ring, etc.)
that should be formed, it is not possible to design self-stabilizing algorithms solely based on local
information at nodes (cf Section 5.2). We therefore introduce another technique in order to build
arbitrary graphs for arbitrary metrics (cf Section 5.3).
5.1 Line and Circular Metrics
Consider a line metric as an embedding of the nodes into the one-dimensional space, i.e., we can
define𝑑 by𝑑(𝑢,𝑣) =|𝑢.𝑖𝑑−𝑣.𝑖𝑑| for any two nodes𝑢,𝑣 ∈𝑉 . It is easy to see that one can use the
BuildList protocol from Section 4.1 to converge to a graph that satisfies the line metric.
A simple extension of BuildList would be to let processes form a sorted cycle. For this to work,
we have to establish an additional connection between the process with minimal identifier and the
process with maximal identifier. We distinguish between list edges and cycle edges. List edges are
treated by the BuildList protocol, for cycle edges we introduce the following additional actions:
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

Survey on Algorithms for Self-Stabilizing Overlay Networks 1:11
(i) Upon activation, if a node𝑣 does not have a left (or right) list neighbor, it creates a cycle edge
to itself and delegates it to𝑣.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 (or𝑣.𝑟𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡 ).
(ii) If a node𝑣 has a cycle edge to a node𝑤 with𝑣 <𝑤 (or𝑤 <𝑣) and𝑣.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 ≠⊥ (or𝑣.𝑟𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡 ≠⊥),
then𝑣 delegates the cycle edge to𝑣.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 (or𝑣.𝑟𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡 ).
(iii) If node 𝑣 has a cycle edge to node 𝑤 that cannot be delegated via action (𝑖𝑖), then upon
activation𝑣 introduces itself to𝑤, generating the implicit cycle edge(𝑤,𝑣).
(iv) If node𝑣 has a (explicit) cycle edge to node𝑤 and receives another (implicit) cycle edge to
some node𝑤′ ≠𝑤, then𝑣 keeps the edge for which covers the larger distance w.r.t. to the
metric function. The other edge, say(𝑤,𝑣′), is removed and replaced by two implicit list
edges(𝑣,𝑣′) and(𝑤,𝑣′).
Consider Figure 1.4 for a visualization of these rules.
v v
(i)
v‘ w v‘ w
(ii)
vv
(iii)
w
...
v w
...
v
(iv)
v vw‘ w‘ ww
... .........
Fig. 1.4. Illustration for the actions of BuildCycle. Red edges denote cycle edges, black edges denote list
edges.
One can show that this extension of BuildList (call it BuildCycle) is self-stabilizing:
Theorem 5.2. BuildCycle is self-stabilizing, i.e.,
(i) BuildCycle transforms any weakly connected graph 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) into a sorted cycle after 𝑂(𝑛)
rounds (Convergence) and
(ii) if the explicit edges in 𝐺 already form a sorted cycle, then they are preserved at any point in
time (Closure).
Self-stabilizing protocols that make use of a sorted cycle can be found for example in [20, 30, 32].
5.2 Challenges of Local Probing
Although the local probing approach proves useful for many scenarios, it has its limits as we
will outline in this section. Consider nodes 𝑣1,...,𝑣 𝑛 and imagine we are given a cycle metric
𝑑𝐶 :𝑉 2→ R+ with𝑑𝐶(𝑣𝑖,𝑣 𝑗) = 1 with 𝑗 =𝑖+ 1 mod𝑛 for all𝑖∈{ 1,...,𝑛 } (cf Figure 1.5(a)). A
cycle graph reflects the metric𝑑𝐶, which would be a 1-spanner.
If nodes only know the metric function 𝑑𝐶 and we are given a sorted list initially, then it is
impossible using only local probing to reach a sorted cycle. This is because any implicit edge
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

1:12 Feldmann et al.
1
1
1
1 1
1 1
1
1
1
1
(a) (b)
v w
Fig. 1.5. (a) Illustration of the cycle metric. (b) Initial graph for which we cannot locally distinguish between
a line and a circular metric.
generated by any node has minimum distance regarding 𝑑𝐶 and thus is immediately merged
with the corresponding explicit edge. Therefore we cannot generate an implicit edge (𝑣,𝑤) (cf.
Figure 1.5(b)) which would be necessary to establish the cycle.
As a consequence it follows that any protocol must be either non-oblivious (in the sense that the
protocol knows something about the graph topology) or non-local (in the sense that requests are
processed without local evidence of a violation of the metric) in order to stabilize a𝑘-spanner of
the desired topology for any constant𝑘.
An example for a non-oblivious strategy would be the BuildCycle protocol from Section 5.1. An
example for a non-local strategy is the probing approach from Section 4.2 that is used to stabilize
the linearized de Bruijn graph. We generalize this approach in the next section.
5.3 General Metrics with Global Probing
We next discuss non-local strategies that can be used in order to stabilize any arbitrary given metric
given via a distance function𝑑𝑀 :𝑉 2→ R. The first strategy makes use of probing: At each node𝑢
we periodically generate a probing request that is handled in two phases:
(1) Follow a random sequence of nodes𝑣1,𝑣 2,... that lie on a shortest path to𝑢 (i.e.,𝑑𝑀(𝑣𝑖,𝑖)+
𝑑𝑀(𝑣𝑖,𝑣𝑖+1) = 𝑑(𝑣𝑖+1,𝑢)) up to a node 𝑣𝑘, for which we cannot delegate the request any
further.
(2) From𝑣𝑘 we delegate the request to a random neighbor𝑤𝑘 and follow a random shortest path
back to𝑢. If a node𝑤 is encountered that does not have a neighbor lying on the shortest
path to𝑢, create the edge(𝑤,𝑢).
This strategy suffices to detect edges that are contained in the desired topology, but are still
missing in the overlay.
A different approach has been discussed in [ 20]: The idea is to let nodes form a sorted cycle
via the previously presented BuildCycle protocol. Furthermore each node𝑣 maintains a pointer
𝑣.𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡 to some node in𝑉 . Via delegation these pointers constantly traverse the cycle in a common
direction. The actual construction of the metric is then done by each node𝑣 periodically: Using𝑑𝑀,
𝑣 checks if the edge(𝑣,𝑣.𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡) should be added to the graph. Also𝑣 checks, for each of its outgoing
edges, whether it can be removed from the graph. One can show that this algorithm is able to
stabilize any arbitrary metric.
5.4 Special Metrics with Local Probing
There exist special metrics for which we can construct self-stabilizing protocols based on local
probing only. Consider atree metric𝑑𝑇 :𝑉 2→ R+ that assigns a weight to each possible edge in the
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

Survey on Algorithms for Self-Stabilizing Overlay Networks 1:13
overlay. The following protocol BuildMST from [22] is able to maintain a minimum spanning tree,
i.e., a connected graph𝑀𝑆𝑇 =(𝑉,𝐸), for which the sum of the edge weights˝
𝑒∈𝐸𝑑𝑇(𝑒) is minimum.
For nodes𝑢,𝑣,𝑤 define𝑢≺( 𝑣,𝑤) as a shorthand for(𝑑𝑇(𝑖,𝑣) <𝑑𝑇(𝑣,𝑤))∧( 𝑑𝑇(𝑢,𝑤) <𝑑𝑇(𝑣,𝑤)).
This means that𝑢 is closer to both𝑣 and𝑤 with respect to𝑑𝑇 , and hence that the𝑀𝑆𝑇 should not
contain the edge(𝑣,𝑤) in order to connect𝑢,𝑣 and𝑤. BuildMST works as follows: Let each node
𝑣 maintain a set𝑁𝑣⊆𝑉 that stores the neighboring nodes of𝑣 in the𝑀𝑆𝑇 . Upon activation a node
𝑣∈𝑉 performs the following actions for each of its current neighbors𝑤∈𝑁𝑣: It checks whether
there is a node𝑢∈ 𝑁𝑣 for which𝑢≺( 𝑣,𝑤) holds. If such a node exists then 𝑣 delegates𝑤 to𝑢
and removes𝑤 from𝑁𝑣. Otherwise𝑣 introduces itself to𝑤 by sending its reference to𝑤. Consider
Figure 1.6 for a visualization of these rules.
u v
w
(a)
7
6
11 11
6
u v
w
(b)
7
6
117
6
6
Fig. 1.6. An exmaple of the protocol’s execution. The black edges indicate the distances between the nodes
with respect to𝑑𝑇 . Red edges denote the overlay’s edges. In this example,𝑣 first delegates𝑤 to𝑢 and then
introduces itself to𝑢
Using a potential function, one can show that BuildMST satisfies convergence and closure, i.e.,
BuildMST is self-stabilizing:
Theorem 5.3. Given a weakly connected graph 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) and a tree metric 𝑑𝑇 : 𝑉 2→ R+.
BuildMST is self-stabilizing, i.e.:
(i) BuildMST eventually transforms𝐺 into a minimum spanning tree after 𝑂(𝑛2) rounds (Conver-
gence) and
(ii) if the explicit edges in 𝐺 already form a minimum spanning tree, then they are preserved at any
point in time (Closure).
The proof works similar to the one for the line metric: Let𝐺𝑠 be the directed graph containing
all explicit and implicit edges when the system is in state𝑠. Then we define the potential of𝐺𝑠 to
be the weight of the minimum spanning tree that can be constructed from all edges in𝐺𝑠 when
ignoring their direction. It can be shown that this potential decreases monotonically throughout
time. As the weight of the (globally) optimal minimum spanning tree, i.e., the minimum spanning
tree that considers all possible edges between nodes, is a lower bound for the potential function, it
is clear that the potential cannot decrease indefinitely.
5.5 Euclidean Metrics
Instead of identifying processes via their identifier, we identify processes𝑣 via their geographical
position in this section, i.e.,𝑣 =(𝑣𝑥,𝑣𝑦)∈ R2. We first define the Delaunay graph:
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

1:14 Feldmann et al.
Definition 5.4. The Delaunay graph 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) consists of nodes𝑉 ∈ R2 and edges𝐸, where
(𝑣,𝑤)∈ 𝐸 if there exists a circle𝐶 through𝑣 and𝑤 such that no other node is within𝐶.
Note that if(𝑣,𝑤)∈ 𝐸, then other nodes are allowed to lie on the border of the circle𝐶 going
through𝑣 and𝑤 (see Figure 1.7).
u
v
u
v
(a) (b)
Fig. 1.7. (a) Example scenario, where (𝑢,𝑣) ∉𝐸 due to the fact that any cycle going through𝑢 and𝑣 contains
at least one of the two inner nodes inside of it. (b) Scenario where(𝑢,𝑣)∈ 𝐸.
Denote the Euclidean distance between𝑣 and𝑤 by||𝑣,𝑤|| =
p
(𝑣𝑥−𝑤𝑥)2+(𝑣𝑦−𝑤𝑦)2. One
can easily verify that the Euclidean distance is a metric. The underlying metric for the Delaunay
graph is the Delaunay triangulation, which is an approximation of the Euclidean metric with the
advantage of being locally checkable. In more details, the length of any shortest path between any
two nodes𝑢,𝑣 ∈𝑉 in the Delaunay graph is at most 1.998·|| 𝑢,𝑣|| as it has been shown in [61].
Each node𝑢 has a variable𝑢.𝑁 ⊆𝑉 that consists of𝑢’s current neighbors. Similar to BuildList,
BuildDelaunay consists of two actions Timeout and Introduce, where Timeout is executed
periodically at each node and Introduce can be called locally or remotely. Introduce is used
in the same manner as Linearize in BuildList, i.e., we use Introduce to forward nodes in the
Delaunay graph until they reach their correct neighbor.
In Timeout node𝑢 performs the following three actions:
(i) 𝑢 checks for each of its neighbors𝑣∈𝑢.𝑁 , if(𝑢,𝑣) belongs to the Delaunay graph from𝑢’s
local point of view, i.e., if there exists a circle𝐶 going through𝑢 and𝑣 that does not contain
any other node out of𝑢.𝑁 . If not, then𝑢 removes𝑣 from𝑢.𝑁 and locally calls Introduce(𝑣).
(ii) 𝑢 introduces itself to its neighbors in𝑢.𝑁 by calling Introduce(𝑢) on them.
(iii) Let𝑣1,...,𝑣 𝑘∈𝑁 be𝑢’s neighbors ordered in clockwise direction. Node𝑢 introduces𝑣𝑖 to
𝑣𝑖+1 and vice versa, if the angle ∢𝑣𝑖𝑢𝑣𝑖+1 is smaller 180◦.
Consider Figure 1.8(a) for a visualization of the actions(𝑖𝑖) and(𝑖𝑖𝑖) of Timeout.
Upon receipt of an Introduce(𝑣) message, node𝑢 does the following: It first checks whether
the edge(𝑢,𝑣) is contained in the Delaunay graph with node set𝑢.𝑁∪{𝑢,𝑣} and adds𝑣 to𝑢.𝑁
if that is the case. If not, then 𝑢 determines a node out of 𝑢.𝑁 to forward𝑣 to in the following
way:𝑢 first determines the nodes 𝑤,𝑤′∈ 𝑢.𝑁 with minimal angle to 𝑣 in clockwise direction
and counterclockwise direction respectively (see Figure 1.8(b)). Then 𝑢 forwards𝑣 to the node
𝑤′′∈{𝑤,𝑤′} that minimizes||𝑤′′,𝑣|| by calling Introduce(𝑣) on𝑤′′.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

Survey on Algorithms for Self-Stabilizing Overlay Networks 1:15
u
v
w
u
w
w‘
v
(a) (b)
Fig. 1.8. (a) Visualization of the actions (𝑖𝑖) and(𝑖𝑖𝑖) of Timeout. Observe that𝑢 does not introduce𝑣 and𝑤
to each other, as the angle ∢𝑣𝑢𝑤 > 180◦. (b) Example for node𝑢 determining the node𝑤∈𝑢.𝑁 to forward𝑣
to. The implicit edge(𝑤,𝑣) is generated as𝑢 calls Introduce(𝑣) on𝑤.
One can show that BuildDelaunay satisfies convergence and closure, i.e., BuildDelaunay is
self-stabilizing:
Theorem 5.5. Given a weakly connected graph 𝐺 = (𝑉,𝐸) with a set of processes 𝑉 ∈ R2.
BuildDelaunay is self-stabilizing, i.e.,
(i) BuildDelaunay eventually transforms𝐺 into a Delaunay graph after 𝑂(𝑛3) rounds (Conver-
gence) and
(ii) if the explicit edges in 𝐺 already form a Delaunay graph, then they are preserved at any point
in time (Closure).
To show convergence, one can use a potential function. Observe that an implicit edge (𝑢,𝑣)
is either transformed into an explicit edge at 𝑢, or is forwarded to a node 𝑤 ∈ 𝑢.𝑁 such that
the edge gets shorted w.r.t. the Euclidean distance. Now consider the potentialΦ that counts the
number of nodes𝑤 ∉𝑢.𝑁 that should be contained in𝑢.𝑁 in legitimate states. One can show that
Φ monotonically decreases until Φ = 0, which yields convergence.
Closure can be shown by arguing that each implicit edge is being merged with an explicit one in
legitimate states, because an implicit edge cannot be transformed into an explicit edge that does
not belong to the Delaunay graph.
BuildDelaunay can be applied in higher-dimensional scenarios as well, i.e., in a𝑑-dimensional
scenario we consider balls of dimension𝑑 instead of two-dimensional circles.
A protocol for self-stabilizing quadtrees has been proposed in [ 15]. The protocol makes use
of a space-filling curve to obtain an ordering ≺ of all processes. Given this ordering≺, we can
apply BuildList to let all processes form a sorted list. Using the established list edges, we use
a probing approach similar to the one presented in Section 4.2 to generate additional edges that
guarantee that the diameter of the quadtree is𝑂(log𝑛), given that Euclidean distance between any
two processes is large enough. Same as for the Delaunay graph, the protocol can be generalized to
higher dimensions, such that self-stabilizing octtrees can be realized.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

1:16 Feldmann et al.
6 SELF-STABILIZING EXPANDERS
A most attractive family of networks are networks based on expander graph topologies. Expander
graphs are sparse graphs with strong connectivity properties that protect the network from dis-
connecting when nodes shut down. More formally, if𝑘 nodes got shut down (for example by an
adversarial attack), then at most𝑂(𝑘) nodes get disconnected from the network. Expander graphs
are known to enable efficient communication at low cost, and can be highly scalable. They hence
come with many applications, from overlays [2] to datacenter interconnects [60]. In the following,
we review the design of a self-stabilizing network based on skip graphs. Subsequently, we discuss
the design of self-stabilizing random graphs. We conclude by discussing a powerful and general
framework to design self-stabilizing networks.
6.1 Self-Stabilizing Skip Graphs
The first self-stabilizing and scalable overlay network was SKIP+ [25], a self-stabilizing variant of
the skip graph family [2, 23]. Similarly to the original skip graphs, SKIP+ features a polylogarithmic
degree and diameter. However, in constrast to the original skip graph versions, SKIP+ contains
additional edges which enable local detectability: only with these edges it can be ensured that at
least one node will always notice, locally, if the overall network is not in the desired state yet.
SKIP+ distinguishes between stable edges and temporary edges. Similarly to the linearization
example above, temporary edges will travel through the topology (i.e., they are forwarded), and
eventually merge or stabilize. Node𝑣 considers an edge(𝑣,𝑤) to be temporary if from𝑣’s point
of view(𝑣,𝑤) does not belong to SKIP+ and so𝑣 will try to forward it to some of its neighbors
for which the edge would be more relevant. If on the other hand(𝑣,𝑤) belongs to SKIP+ from𝑣’s
point of view, then𝑣 considers(𝑣,𝑤) to be a stable edge and will make sure that the connection is
bidirected, i.e., it will propose(𝑤,𝑣) to𝑤.
As many self-stabilizing algorithms, the self-stabilizing protocol for SKIP+ is very simple: the
nodes in SKIP+ continuously must execute three rules.
(1) Rule 1: Create Reverse Edges and Introduce Stable Edges. This rule makes sure that a
directed edge becomes a bidirected edge, introducing the nodes to each other. Also, stable
edges are created where needed.
(2) Rule 2: Forward Temporary Edges. This rule is used for forwarding temporary edges to
neighboring nodes. Eventually, the edges will stabilize or merge.
(3) Rule 3: Introduce All and Linearize. The rule has two parts. It performs some kind of local
transitive closure, where nodes introduce all their neighbors to each other. Moreover, the
rule is responsible for sorting neighboring nodes according to their identifiers. (In a skip
graph, nodes are ordered on each level, facilitating search operations.)
The three rules are continuously checked and executed in parallel by all nodes. However, while
the algorithm itself is simple, its analysis is non-trivial. In a nutshell, the stabilization proof is
based on the observation that the execution of the algorithm can be divided into phases in which
certain properties (milestones) are achieved. In particular, the execution can be thought of being
divided into a bottom-up and a top-down phase. The bottom-up phase (i.e., from skip graph level 0
upwards), connected components for increasingly larger prefixes are formed in the identifier space.
This will be accomplished by Rule 1 (where new nodes in the range of a node are discovered and
where ranges may be refined) and Rule 3 (where an efficient variation of a local transitive closure is
performed). Once the connected components are formed, in the second phase of the algorithm (the
division into phases is a purely analytical one) will form a sorted list out of each prefix component.
This is accomplished in a top-down fashion by merging the two already sorted subcomponents
into a sorted larger component until all nodes in the bottom level form a sorted list.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

Survey on Algorithms for Self-Stabilizing Overlay Networks 1:17
Jacob et al. [25] show the following result.
Theorem 6.1. SKIP+ is self-stabilizing, i.e.,
(i) SKIP+ transforms any weakly connected graph 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) into a skip graph after 𝑂(log2𝑛)
rounds (Convergence) and
(ii) if the explicit edges in 𝐺 already form a skip graph, then they are preserved at any point in time
(Closure).
A single join event (i.e., a new node connects to an arbitrary node in the system) or leave event (i.e., a
node just leaves without prior notice) can be handled with polylogarithmic work.
An improved version of the self-stabilizing SKIP+ graph is HSKIP+ [ 17] which reduces the
stabilization time in practice and needs less work for single join or leave events.
6.2 Self-Stabilizing Random Graphs
Another attractive family of overlay topologies are random graphs. Random graphs are known to
enable efficient communication, and are also used in other contexts, such as datacenter networks [58]
and also serve as models for social networks and in particular small-world networks [29]. A self-
stabilizing small-world network has been proposed in [30]. The topology consist of a sorted ring
with additional shortcuts, i.e., each node has a long-range link to a random node in the system.1
Similar to the probing approach for the linearized de Bruijn graph, in this algorithm, each node
periodically sends out probes to ensure that the network is connected through non-long-range links.
Long-range links are maintained through a technique called Move and Forget adapted from [11]: As
time proceeds, a node𝑣 may forget its long-range link with a certain probability that is increasing
over time. Node𝑣 periodically asks its long-range link𝑣.𝑙𝑟𝑙 for its direct ring neighbors𝑙 and𝑟.
Once𝑣 forgets the long-range link, it sets𝑣.𝑙𝑟𝑙 to either𝑙 or𝑟, each with probability 1/2.
A special technique to let a topology converge to some random graph that is an expander has
been proposed in [39, 40]. Expander graphs can be constructed by a series of edge flips in regular
undirected graphs. The authors introduce the 𝑘-Flipper transformation rule, which considers a
given path of length𝑘+ 2 and interchanges the end vertices of the path. It can be shown that the
continuous use of the 1-Flipper transformation on a𝑑-regular graph𝐺0 constructs all connected
𝑑-regular graphs with the same probability. For𝑑∈𝜔(1) a random connected𝑑-regular graph is a
Θ(𝑑)-expander graph asymptotically almost surely, i.e., with probability𝑝≥ 1−𝑜(1).
A generalization of the 1-Flipper rule achieves the following result, which informally states that
within a polynomial number of edge flips one is able to construct a random𝑑-regular connected
graph that is a Θ(𝑑)-expander.
Theorem 6.2 ([39]). If we choose𝑑∈ Ω(log𝑛) applyingO(𝑑𝑛) random Θ(𝑑 2𝑛2 log 1/𝜀)-Flipper
operations transforms any given 𝑑-regular connected graph into a connected 𝑑-regular graph with
expansion Θ(𝑑) with high probability.
A different rule called “Flip" for edge flipping has been introduced in [27]: one such operation
replaces the edges(𝑖,𝑗) and(𝑘,𝑙) by edges(𝑖,𝑘) and(𝑗,𝑙), if and only if𝑖 and𝑙 are adjacent to each
other. Starting from a connected graph, it has been shown that this Flip operation defines a Markov
chain on all connected graphs, i.e., we can construct any connected graph𝐺′ when starting with
the connected graph𝐺 by a series of Flip operations. Finally, it has been shown in [14] that the Flip
Markov chain is rapidly mixing for regular graphs.
1Note that depending on the probability distribution of these long-range links, the random graph may or may not be an
expander.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

1:18 Feldmann et al.
6.3 Transitive Closure Framework
A framework to derive self-stabilizing algorithms for any desired topology is the Transitive Closure
Framework (TCF) [9]. The idea of the framework is as follows: Each node periodically receives
its 2-neighborhood and locally checks if it is in a legitimate state. If there exists a node in the
network, for which this is not the case, then it becomes a detector and spreads the event that
the system is in an illegitimate state through the network. This leads to every node eventually
becoming a detector. Detectors expand their neighborhood to eventually contain all nodes in𝑉 .
Thus the system eventually reaches a clique. Once the clique has been generated, each node is able
to compute its correct set of neighbors within one round, using the Forward primitive to delegate
edges not needed by a node until the edge is merged at some node (recall that we are not allowed
to simply delete an edge as connectivity may be lost this way).
The following bound on the runtime of TCF has been shown in [9]:
Theorem 6.3 ([9]). The Transitive Closure Framework is self-stabilizing, i.e.,
(i) it transforms any weakly connected graph 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) into any locally-checkable family of
overlay networks in at most 𝐷(𝑛)+ log𝑛+ 1 rounds, where 𝐷(𝑛) is the maximum distance
between a non-detector node and its closest detector (Convergence) and
(ii) if the explicit edges in 𝐺 already form the desired topology, then they are preserved at any point
in time (Closure).
One may confer that𝐷(𝑛) may become quite large when considering any initial state. However,
the authors of [9] showed for a wide variety of overlay networks that𝐷(𝑛) and the diameter of the
network in a legitimate state are asymptotically identical. For example, this leads to a𝑂(log𝑛)-time
self-stabilizing algorithm for the SKIP+ graph, which is optimal, as any self-stabilizing algorithm
needs time of at least the diameter of the network in legitimate states.
Another framework for generating different families of graphs is Avatar[8], which also has
the advantage that the degree of nodes increases only by a polylogarithmic factor in expectation
during stabilization.
7 OTHER ASPECTS
There are several specific aspects in topological self-stabilization which have received special
attention. For example, besides supporting joins and leaves, overlay networks also need to provide
fast search. Another important aspect is how to support special leave operations, beyond simple
crashes. In the following, we discuss these two aspects in more detail.
7.1 Monotonic Searchability
Consider the sorted list from Section 4.1 and assume a node 𝑣 wants to send a packet 𝑃 to the
node with identifier𝑖𝑑∈ N. Before it can do that,𝑣 first has to search for the reference of the node
with id𝑡 in the sorted list. This is done by𝑣 generating a Search(𝑣,𝑖𝑑 ) request that is forwarded
along the list until it terminates, i.e., it either arrives at the desired node, or the underlying routing
algorithm concludes that the request cannot be forwarded anymore. Upon termination the result
of the request is directly sent back to 𝑣 (this is why the request has to contain 𝑣’s reference). A
trivial routing algorithm would be to just forward Search(𝑣,𝑖𝑑 ) at each node𝑢 via either𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 or
𝑢.𝑟𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡 , depending on which of these node’s ids are closer to𝑖𝑑 (Algorithm 1).
A desired property for Search requests is to guarantee liveness, i.e., to guarantee that each
Search request eventually terminates. One can easily see that the above algorithm for the sorted
list trivially satisfies liveness. More involved strategies have to be considered if we also want to
guarantee safety properties. Regarding Search requests, monotonic searchability is considered as
an important property:
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

Survey on Algorithms for Self-Stabilizing Overlay Networks 1:19
Algorithm 1 Routing Algorithm for the Sorted List
1: procedure Search(𝑣,𝑠𝑖𝑑 ) ⊲ Executed by node𝑢
2: if𝑢.𝑖𝑑 =𝑠𝑖𝑑 then
3: “Success", terminate
4: if𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 <𝑠𝑖𝑑 <𝑢.𝑖𝑑 or𝑢.𝑖𝑑 <𝑠𝑖𝑑 <𝑢.𝑟𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡 then
5: “Failure", terminate ⊲ Guarantees liveness
6: if𝑠𝑖𝑑 <𝑢.𝑖𝑑 then
7: 𝑢.𝑙𝑒𝑓𝑡 ← Search(𝑣,𝑠𝑖𝑑 )
8: else
9: 𝑢.𝑟𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡← Search(𝑣,𝑠𝑖𝑑 )
Definition 7.1 ([ 57]). A self-stabilizing protocol satisfies monotonic searchability according to
some routing protocolR, if it holds for any pair of nodes𝑣,𝑤 that once a Search(𝑣,𝑤.𝑖𝑑 ) request
(that is routed according toR) initiated at time𝑡 succeeds, any Search(𝑣,𝑤.𝑖𝑑 ) request initiated at
time𝑡′ >𝑡 will succeed.
Protocols that satisfy monotonic searchability have the advantage to be able to provide guarantees
on Search requests even while the recovery process is going on. Due to the modification of edges
by the self-stabilizing protocol, realizing monotonic searchability is a non-trivial problem: One can
see that the above routing algorithm for the sorted list does not satisfy monotonic searchability.
Consider Figure 1.9 for an example.
u w
u.right
Time t:
xv
u w
u.right
Time t‘>t:
xv
Search(u,x.id)
Search(u,x.id)
???
Fig. 1.9. Example illustrating why the trivial routing algorithm for the sorted list fails to guarantee monotonic
searchability. At time𝑡 the search request is able to reach the target node𝑥, but this cannot be guaranteed
anymore after𝑢 performed Linearize at time𝑡′ >𝑡 and the search request arrives at𝑣 before the reference of
𝑤 indicated by the implicit edge(𝑣,𝑤).
Research on monotonic searchability was initated in [ 56] where the authors came up with a
protocol for the sorted list that satisfies monotonic searchability. The idea is that nodes are allowed
to have multiple left and right neighbors while the system recovers. An edge(𝑢,𝑤) that should be
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

1:20 Feldmann et al.
forwarded to some node𝑣 is not directly forwarded but only removed from𝑢’s local storage after
𝑣 has acknowledged the implicit edge to𝑤. The authors showed that this extension still leads to
the system converging to a sorted list. Furthermore, when using a appropriate routing protocol,
monotonic searchability can be shown as well.
Research on monotonic searchability culminated in a generic approach that can be applied to a
wide range of self-stabilizing protocols such that monotonic searchability is guaranteed [57]. Along
with a generic search protocol, the approach introduces a new set of primitives for manipulating
edges that allow the safer delegation of edges than the primitives described in Section 3.1, while
still being provably universal. The cost that one pays when applying that protocol is that Search
requests may traverse up to Ω(𝑛) hops until termination when searching for non-existent nodes in
the system.
In order to avoid the above costs, one can still ask if there are protocols for specific topologies
that satisfy monotonic searchability. Recently the authors of [38] presented a specialized protocol
in order to guarantee monotonic searchability in the perfect skip graph. The perfect skip graph is
the deterministic version of the skip graph and has the advantage over the SKIP+ graph that it can
be built in a self-stabilizing manner using a probing approach, without having to rely on additional
edges to enable local checkability.
Last but not least we note that the protocol for the self-stabilizing quadtree from [15] has been
constructed in a way such that monotonic searchability can be guaranteed trivially.
Whether there are even more efficient topology-specific protocols remains an open problem.
7.2 Node Departures
Another challenging task arises when studying node departures, i.e., when nodes are allowed to
leave the system. In an ideal scenario nodes may just leave the system, as we then rely on the
self-stabilizing protocol to stabilize the system again. This approach however is flawed for two
reasons: First, if the expansion of the topology is not high enough (consider for example the sorted
list), then a leaving node may disconnect the overlay, implying that stabilization to a sorted list is
not possible. The second reason is that even if the expansion of the topology is high, it is still not
guaranteed to be high in illegitimate states, but only in legitimate states. Thus, leaving nodes may
still be able to disconnect the overlay.
In topological self-stabilization, node departures have been first studied in [18], where nodes
are either staying (the process wants to remain in the system) or leaving (the process wants to be
excluded from the system). Leaving nodes are allowed to enter the state exit or sleep. A process
that is in state exit is gone, i.e., it does not execute any actions anymore. If a process is in state
sleep, it does not execute any action until another process invokes an action on it via a message.
Processes that are neither in states exit or sleep are called awake. The challenge is to stabilize the
system to a legitimate state with the following properties:
(i) Every staying process is awake.
(ii) Every leaving process is either in state exit or permanently in state sleep.
(iii) All staying processes form a weakly connected component.
The authors of [18] introduced the following problems:
• Finite Departure Problem (FDP ): Eventually reach a legitimate state in case that only the
state exit is available.
• Finite Sleep Problem (FSP ): Eventually reach a legitimate state in case that only the state
sleep is available.
An important (negative) result is that theFDP cannot be solved by local control protocols.
Instead one has to make use of oracles:
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

Survey on Algorithms for Self-Stabilizing Overlay Networks 1:21
Theorem 7.2. Any self-stabilizing solution for theFDP has to rely on an oracle.
On the positive side however, theFSP can actually be solved by local control protocols.
Research on node departures culminated in an universal protocol for theFDP [33] that can be
applied to a wide range of self-stabilizing protocols. As already mentioned above, this is of great
importance even if the expansion of the topology in legitimate states is high.
Recently it has been shown that when considering a new interconnection model based on relays,
theFDP can be solved even without relying on an oracle [55].
8 CONCLUSION AND OPEN QUESTIONS
This paper presented an overview of the state-of-the-art techniques to design self-stabilizing overlay
networks: overlays which are highly fault-tolerant in the sense that they reconfigure to reach a
desirable state, in a distributed manner, from arbitrary initial states. In particular, we proceeded in
a bottom-up manner, starting with basic connectivity primitives, then studying algorithms for the
fundamental linearization problem, moving to more general geometric graphs, and finally reaching
scalable networks based on skip graphs and random graphs.
While today we have a fairly good understanding of the design of algorithms for self-stabilizing
networks, a number of important problems remain open. In the following, we discuss some of them.
• Upper and Lower Bounds on Work: The main focus in existing literature on the design
of self-stabilizing topologies is on the feasibility and correctness of distributed algorithms.
While we have presented some results on the runtime of self-stabilizing algorithms in this
paper, particularly little is known today (with some exceptions [ 25],[31]) about the work
required for topological self-stabilization. Results on upper and lower bounds on the work of
self-stabilizing algorithms for different overlay topologies, will be very interesting.
• Transient Behavior: We also lack a good understanding of the achievable transient prop-
erties, during convergence. For example, while self-stabilizing networks such as SKIP+ are
scalable in the sense that they rely on graphs providing a polylogarithmic degree and diameter,
scalability may not be ensured during convergence: during convergence, the degree of a node
may temporarily raise significantly, far beyond the maximum initial or final node degree. A
major open question hence regards the design of algorithms which also provide scalability
during convergence. To give another example, consider the diameter: it may be desirable that
the diameter never significantly increases during convergence. At the same time, we also note
that for some specific problems, such as linearization, achieving, e.g., convergence without
increasing degrees, is simple, and an interesting avenue for future research is to investigate
to which extent such results can be generalized.
• Locality: While a self-stabilizing algorithm by definition will re-establish a desired property
from any initial configuration, it is desirable that the parallel convergence time as well as
the overall work is proportional to “how far” the initial topology is from the desired one.
We currently lack a general theoretical understanding of what can and cannot be achieved
in terms of such local properties. We also lack a deep understanding of how the “distance”
between initial and desired topology can be defined generally; it may also depend on the
application.
• Churn Tolerance: We currently lack insights into the rate of joins and leaves an over-
lay network can tolerate. Indeed, while there exists work on overlays which are “churn-
tolerant” [21, 34, 49], this line of research has been largely independent of research on
self-stabilizing algorithms. Bringing these two fields together may lead to very interesting
and relevant research insights.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

1:22 Feldmann et al.
REFERENCES
[1] Dana Angluin, James Aspnes, Jiang Chen, Yinghua Wu, and Yitong Yin. Fast construction of overlay networks. In
Proceedings of the seventeenth annual ACM symposium on Parallelism in algorithms and architectures , pages 145–154.
ACM, 2005.
[2] James Aspnes and Gauri Shah. Skip graphs. Acm transactions on algorithms (talg) , 3(4):37, 2007.
[3] James Aspnes and Yinghua Wu. O (logn)-time overlay network construction from graphs with out-degree 1. In
International Conference On Principles Of Distributed Systems , pages 286–300. Springer, 2007.
[4] Baruch Awerbuch and Christian Scheideler. Towards a scalable and robust dht. Theory of Computing Systems ,
45(2):234–260, 2009.
[5] Baruch Awerbuch and Michael Sipser. Dynamic networks are as fast as static networks. InProc. 29th Annual Symposium
on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS) , pages 206–219. IEEE, 1988.
[6] Baruch Awerbuch and George Varghese. Distributed program checking: a paradigm for building self-stabilizing
distributed protocols. In Proceedings 32nd Annual Symposium of Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS), pages 258–267.
IEEE, 1991.
[7] Markus Benter, Mohammad Divband, Sebastian Kniesburges, Andreas Koutsopoulos, and Kalman Graffi. Ca-re-chord:
A churn resistant self-stabilizing chord overlay network. In 2013 Conference on Networked Systems, NetSys 2013,
Stuttgart, Germany, March 11-15, 2013 , pages 27–34, 2013.
[8] Andrew Berns. Avatar: A time- and space-efficient self-stabilizing overlay network. InStabilization, Safety, and Security
of Distributed Systems - 17th International Symposium, SSS 2015, Edmonton, AB, Canada, August 18-21, 2015, Proceedings ,
pages 233–247, 2015.
[9] Andrew Berns, Sukumar Ghosh, and Sriram V. Pemmaraju. Building self-stabilizing overlay networks with the
transitive closure framework. In Stabilization, Safety, and Security of Distributed Systems - 13th International Symposium,
SSS 2011, Grenoble, France, October 10-12, 2011. Proceedings , pages 62–76, 2011.
[10] Marco Canini, Iosif Salem, Liron Schiff, Elad Michael Schiller, and Stefan Schmid. Renaissance: A self-stabilizing
distributed SDN control plane. In 38th IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems, ICDCS 2018,
Vienna, Austria, July 2-6, 2018 , pages 233–243, 2018.
[11] Augustin Chaintreau, Pierre Fraigniaud, and Emmanuelle Lebhar. Networks become navigable as nodes move and
forget. In Automata, Languages and Programming, 35th International Colloquium, ICALP 2008, Reykjavik, Iceland, July
7-11, 2008, Proceedings, Part I: Tack A: Algorithms, Automata, Complexity, and Games , pages 133–144, 2008.
[12] Edsger W. Dijkstra. Self-stabilizing systems in spite of distributed control. Commun. ACM, 17(11):643–644, 1974.
[13] Shlomi Dolev. Self-stabilization. MIT press, 2000.
[14] Tomás Feder, Adam Guetz, Milena Mihail, and Amin Saberi. A local switch markov chain on given degree graphs with
application in connectivity of peer-to-peer networks. In 47th Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer
Science (FOCS 2006), 21-24 October 2006, Berkeley, California, USA, Proceedings , pages 69–76, 2006.
[15] Michael Feldmann, Christina Kolb, and Christian Scheideler. Self-stabilizing overlays for high-dimensional monotonic
searchability. In Stabilization, Safety, and Security of Distributed Systems - 20th International Symposium, SSS 2018,
Tokyo, Japan, November 4-7, 2018, Proceedings , pages 16–31, 2018.
[16] Michael Feldmann and Christian Scheideler. A self-stabilizing general de bruijn graph. In Stabilization, Safety,
and Security of Distributed Systems - 19th International Symposium, SSS 2017, Boston, MA, USA, November 5-8, 2017,
Proceedings, pages 250–264, 2017.
[17] Matthias Feldotto, Christian Scheideler, and Kalman Graffi. Hskip+: A self-stabilizing overlay network for nodes with
heterogeneous bandwidths. In 14th IEEE International Conference on Peer-to-Peer Computing, P2P 2014, London, United
Kingdom, September 9-11, 2014, Proceedings , pages 1–10, 2014.
[18] Dianne Foreback, Andreas Koutsopoulos, Mikhail Nesterenko, Christian Scheideler, and Thim Strothmann. On
stabilizing departures in overlay networks. InStabilization, Safety, and Security of Distributed Systems - 16th International
Symposium, SSS 2014, Paderborn, Germany, September 28 - October 1, 2014. Proceedings , pages 48–62, 2014.
[19] Dominik Gall, Riko Jacob, Andréa W. Richa, Christian Scheideler, Stefan Schmid, and Hanjo Täubig. A note on the
parallel runtime of self-stabilizing graph linearization. Theory Comput. Syst., 55(1):110–135, 2014.
[20] Robert Gmyr, Jonas Lefèvre, and Christian Scheideler. Self-stabilizing metric graphs. Theory Comput. Syst. , 63(2):177–
199, 2019.
[21] P. Brighten Godfrey, Scott Shenker, and Ion Stoica. Minimizing churn in distributed systems. SIGCOMM Comput.
Commun. Rev., 36(4):147–158, August 2006.
[22] Thorsten Götte, Christian Scheideler, and Alexander Setzer. On underlay-aware self-stabilizing overlay networks.
In Stabilization, Safety, and Security of Distributed Systems - 20th International Symposium, SSS 2018, Tokyo, Japan,
November 4-7, 2018, Proceedings , pages 50–64, 2018.
[23] Nicholas J. A. Harvey, Michael B. Jones, Stefan Saroiu, Marvin Theimer, and Alec Wolman. Skipnet: A scalable overlay
network with practical locality properties. In Proceedings of the 4th Conference on USENIX Symposium on Internet
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

Survey on Algorithms for Self-Stabilizing Overlay Networks 1:23
Technologies and Systems - Volume 4, USITS’03, pages 9–9, Berkeley, CA, USA, 2003. USENIX Association.
[24] Cheng Huang, Angela Wang, Jin Li, and Keith W Ross. Understanding hybrid cdn-p2p: why limelight needs its own
red swoosh. In Proc. 18th International Workshop on Network and Operating Systems Support for Digital Audio and
Video, pages 75–80. ACM, 2008.
[25] Riko Jacob, Andréa W. Richa, Christian Scheideler, Stefan Schmid, and Hanjo Täubig. Skip+: A self-stabilizing skip
graph. J. ACM, 61(6):36:1–36:26, 2014.
[26] Riko Jacob, Stephan Ritscher, Christian Scheideler, and Stefan Schmid. Towards higher-dimensional topological
self-stabilization: A distributed algorithm for delaunay graphs. Theor. Comput. Sci., 457:137–148, 2012.
[27] Thomas Janson, Peter Mahlmann, and Christian Schindelhauer. A self-stabilizing locality-aware peer-to-peer network
combining random networks, search trees, and dhts. In 16th IEEE International Conference on Parallel and Distributed
Systems, ICPADS 2010, Shanghai, China, December 8-10, 2010 , pages 123–130, 2010.
[28] M Frans Kaashoek and David R Karger. Koorde: A simple degree-optimal distributed hash table. In International
Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems, pages 98–107. Springer, 2003.
[29] Jon M Kleinberg. Navigation in a small world. Nature, 406(6798):845, 2000.
[30] Sebastian Kniesburges, Andreas Koutsopoulos, and Christian Scheideler. A self-stabilization process for small-world
networks. In 26th IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium, IPDPS 2012, Shanghai, China, May
21-25, 2012, pages 1261–1271, 2012.
[31] Sebastian Kniesburges, Andreas Koutsopoulos, and Christian Scheideler. A deterministic worst-case message complexity
optimal solution for resource discovery. In Structural Information and Communication Complexity - 20th International
Colloquium, SIROCCO 2013, Ischia, Italy, July 1-3, 2013, Revised Selected Papers , pages 165–176, 2013.
[32] Sebastian Kniesburges, Andreas Koutsopoulos, and Christian Scheideler. Re-chord: A self-stabilizing chord overlay
network. Theory Comput. Syst., 55(3):591–612, 2014.
[33] Andreas Koutsopoulos, Christian Scheideler, and Thim Strothmann. Towards a universal approach for the finite
departure problem in overlay networks. In Stabilization, Safety, and Security of Distributed Systems - 17th International
Symposium, SSS 2015, Edmonton, AB, Canada, August 18-21, 2015, Proceedings , pages 201–216, 2015.
[34] Fabian Kuhn, Stefan Schmid, and Roger Wattenhofer. A self-repairing peer-to-peer system resilient to dynamic
adversarial churn. In International Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems , pages 13–23. Springer, 2005.
[35] Leslie Lamport. Solved problems, unsolved problems and non-problems in concurrency. ACM SIGOPS Operating
Systems Review, 19(4):34–44, 1985.
[36] Christoph Lenzen, Jukka Suomela, and Roger Wattenhofer. Local algorithms: Self-stabilization on speed. InSymposium
on Self-Stabilizing Systems, pages 17–34. Springer, 2009.
[37] Eng Keong Lua, Jon Crowcroft, Marcelo Pias, Ravi Sharma, Steven Lim, et al. A survey and comparison of peer-to-peer
overlay network schemes. IEEE Communications Surveys and tutorials , 7(1-4):72–93, 2005.
[38] Linghui Luo, Christian Scheideler, and Thim Strothmann. MULTISKIPGRAPH: A self-stabilizing overlay network that
maintains monotonic searchability. In 2019 IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium, IPDPS
2019, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, May 20-24, 2019 , pages 845–854, 2019.
[39] Peter Mahlmann and Christian Schindelhauer. Peer-to-peer networks based on random transformations of connected
regular undirected graphs. In SPAA 2005: Proceedings of the 17th Annual ACM Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms
and Architectures, July 18-20, 2005, Las Vegas, Nevada, USA , pages 155–164, 2005.
[40] Peter Mahlmann and Christian Schindelhauer. Distributed random digraph transformations for peer-to-peer networks.
In SPAA 2006: Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms and Architectures, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, USA, July 30 - August 2, 2006 , pages 308–317, 2006.
[41] Peter Mahlmann and Christian Schindelhauer. Peer-to-peer-netzwerke: Algorithmen und Methoden . Springer-Verlag,
2007.
[42] Petar Maymounkov and David Mazieres. Kademlia: A peer-to-peer information system based on the xor metric. In
International Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems , pages 53–65. Springer, 2002.
[43] Moni Naor and Udi Wieder. Novel architectures for P2P applications: the continuous-discrete approach. In SPAA 2003:
Proceedings of the Fifteenth Annual ACM Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms and Architectures, June 7-9, 2003, San
Diego, California, USA (part of FCRC 2003) , pages 50–59, 2003.
[44] Rizal Mohd Nor, Mikhail Nesterenko, and Christian Scheideler. Corona: A stabilizing deterministic message-passing
skip list. Theor. Comput. Sci., 512:119–129, 2013.
[45] Melih Onus, Andrea Richa, and Christian Scheideler. Linearization: Locally self-stabilizing sorting in graphs. In
Proceedings of the Meeting on Algorithm Engineering & Expermiments , pages 99–108, Philadelphia, PA, USA, 2007.
Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics.
[46] Radia J. Perlman. An algorithm for distributed computation of a spanningtree in an extended LAN. In SIGCOMM ’85,
Proceedings of the Ninth Symposium on Data Communications, British Columbia, Canada, September 10-12, 1985 , pages
44–53, 1985.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.

1:24 Feldmann et al.
[47] Joseph Poon and Thaddeus Dryja. The bitcoin lightning network: Scalable off-chain instant payments. See https:
// lightning.network/ lightning-network-paper.pdf, 2016.
[48] Sylvia Ratnasamy, Paul Francis, Mark Handley, Richard M. Karp, and Scott Shenker. A scalable content-addressable
network. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM 2001 Conference on Applications, Technologies, Architectures, and Protocols
for Computer Communication, August 27-31, 2001, San Diego, CA, USA , pages 161–172, 2001.
[49] Sean Rhea, Dennis Geels, Timothy Roscoe, John Kubiatowicz, et al. Handling churn in a dht. In Proceedings of the
USENIX Annual Technical Conference, volume 6, pages 127–140. Boston, MA, USA, 2004.
[50] Andréa W. Richa and Christian Scheideler. Overlay networks for peer-to-peer networks. InHandbook of Approximation
Algorithms and Metaheuristics, Second Edition, Volume 2: Contemporary and Emerging Applications . 2018.
[51] Andréa W. Richa, Christian Scheideler, and Phillip Stevens. Self-stabilizing de bruijn networks. In Stabilization, Safety,
and Security of Distributed Systems - 13th International Symposium, SSS 2011, Grenoble, France, October 10-12, 2011.
Proceedings, pages 416–430, 2011.
[52] Christina Rickmann, Christoph Wagner, Uwe Nestmann, and Stefan Schmid. Topological self-stabilization with
name-passing process calculi. In 27th International Conference on Concurrency Theory, CONCUR 2016, August 23-26,
2016, Québec City, Canada, pages 19:1–19:15, 2016.
[53] Antony Rowstron and Peter Druschel. Pastry: Scalable, decentralized object location, and routing for large-scale
peer-to-peer systems. In IFIP/ACM International Conference on Distributed Systems Platforms and Open Distributed
Processing, pages 329–350. Springer, 2001.
[54] Christian Scheideler. How to spread adversarial nodes?: rotate! In Proceedings of the thirty-seventh annual ACM
symposium on Theory of computing , pages 704–713. ACM, 2005.
[55] Christian Scheideler and Alexander Setzer. Relays: A new approach for the finite departure problem in overlay
networks. In Stabilization, Safety, and Security of Distributed Systems - 20th International Symposium, SSS 2018, Tokyo,
Japan, November 4-7, 2018, Proceedings , pages 239–253, 2018.
[56] Christian Scheideler, Alexander Setzer, and Thim Strothmann. Towards establishing monotonic searchability in
self-stabilizing data structures. In 19th International Conference on Principles of Distributed Systems, OPODIS 2015,
December 14-17, 2015, Rennes, France , pages 24:1–24:17, 2015.
[57] Christian Scheideler, Alexander Setzer, and Thim Strothmann. Towards a universal approach for monotonic searcha-
bility in self-stabilizing overlay networks. In Distributed Computing - 30th International Symposium, DISC 2016, Paris,
France, September 27-29, 2016. Proceedings , pages 71–84, 2016.
[58] Ankit Singla, Chi-Yao Hong, Lucian Popa, and P Brighten Godfrey. Jellyfish: Networking data centers randomly. In
Presented as part of the 9th {USENIX} Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation ({NSDI} 12), pages
225–238, 2012.
[59] Ion Stoica, Robert Morris, David Liben-Nowell, David R Karger, M Frans Kaashoek, Frank Dabek, and Hari Balakrishnan.
Chord: a scalable peer-to-peer lookup protocol for internet applications. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking (TON) ,
11(1):17–32, 2003.
[60] Asaf Valadarsky, Gal Shahaf, Michael Dinitz, and Michael Schapira. Xpander: Towards optimal-performance datacenters.
In Proceedings of the 12th International on Conference on emerging Networking EXperiments and Technologies , pages
205–219. ACM, 2016.
[61] Ge Xia. The stretch factor of the delaunay triangulation is less than 1.998. SIAM J. Comput., 42(4):1620–1659, 2013.
[62] Ben Y Zhao, Ling Huang, Jeremy Stribling, Sean C Rhea, Anthony D Joseph, and John D Kubiatowicz. Tapestry: A
resilient global-scale overlay for service deployment. IEEE Journal on selected areas in communications , 22(1):41–53,
2004.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 1, No. 1, Article 1. Publication date: January 2020.