Tight Proofs of Space and Replication
Ben Fisch
Abstract
We construct a concretely practical proof-of-space (PoS) with arbitrarily tight security
based on stacked depth robust graphs and constant-degree expander graphs. Aproof-of-space
(PoS) is an interactive proof system where a prover demonstrates that it is persistently using
space to store information. A PoS is arbitrarily tight if the honest prover uses exactly N
space and for any ϵ > 0 the construction can be tuned such that no adversary can pass
veriﬁcation using less than (1 −ϵ)N space. Most notably, the degree of the graphs in our
construction are independent of ϵ, and the number of layers is only O(log(1/ϵ)). The proof
size is O(d/ϵ). The degree d depends on the depth robust graphs, which are only required
to maintain Ω(N) depth in subgraphs on 80% of the nodes. Our tight PoS is also secure
against parallel attacks.
Tight proofs of space are necessary for proof-of-replication (PoRep), which is a publicly
veriﬁable proof that the prover is dedicating unique resources to storing one or more retriev-
able replicas of a ﬁle. Our main PoS construction can be used as a PoRep, but data extraction
is as ineﬃcient as replica generation. We present a second variant of our construction called
ZigZag PoRep that has fast/parallelizable data extraction compared to replica generation and
maintains the same space tightness while only increasing the number of levels by roughly a
factor two.
1 Introduction
Proof-of-space (PoS) has been proposed as an alternative to proof-of-work (PoW) for applications
such as SPAM prevention, DOS attacks, and Sybil resistance in blockchain-based consensus
mechanisms [18, 21, 31]. Several industry projects 1 are underway to deploy cryptocurrencies
similar to Bitcoin that use proof-of-space instead of proof-of-work. Proof-of-space is promoted
as more egalitarian and eco-friendly that proof-of-work because it is ASIC-resistant and does
not consume its resource (space instead of energy), but rather reuses it.
A PoS is an interactive protocol between a prover and veriﬁer in which the prover use
a minimum speciﬁed amount of space in order to pass veriﬁcation. The protocol must have
compact communication relative to the prover’s space requirements and eﬃcient veriﬁcation. A
PoS is persistent if repeated audits force the prover to utilize this space over a period of time.
More precisely, there is an “oﬄine” phase in which the prover obtains challenges from a veriﬁer
(or simulates them non-interactively via Fiat-Shamir), generates an advice stringS that it stores,
and outputs a compact tag τ to the veriﬁer. This is followed by an “online” challenge-response
protocol in which the prover uses its advice S to eﬃciently compute responses to the veriﬁer’s
challenges. The soundness of the PoS relies on timing bounds on the online prover’s runtime
enforced by frequent veriﬁer audits. Timing bounds are necessary as otherwise the prover could
1https://chia.net/,https://spacemesh.io/, https://filecoin.io/
1

store its compact transcript and simulate the setup to re-derive the advice whenever it needs
to pass an online proof. If the PoS resists parallelization attacks then it is unconditionally
secure in this audit model because the prover must use the minimum amount of space to pass
challenges within the wall-clock time allotted. Alternatively, soundness is reasoned through a
cost beneﬁt analysis; it is assumed that a rational prover will not trade signiﬁcant computation
for a relatively small reduction in its space utilization.
In an (S,T )-sound PoS protocol where the prover commits to persistently utilizeN blocks of
space, the honest prover uses S =O(N) persistent space and any adversary who passes audits
in less than time T provably usesS = Ω(N) space. There is generally a gap between the honest
space utilization and the lower bound on the adversary’s space. If the honest prover uses N
space and some adversary might be able to use ϵN space then this PoS has an ϵ space gap. A
tight PoS makes ϵ arbitrarily small depending on a construction parameter that will typically
impact concrete eﬃciency. All else equal, a tighter PoS is obviously more desirable as it has
tighter provable security. Nearly all existing PoS constructions have enormous space gaps [2,18],
including those that are currently being used in practice. The one exception is a recent PoS
protocol by Pietrzak [33] based on depth robust graphs, although it does not achieve a tight
space gap for concretely practical parameters.
Proof-of-replication (PoRep) [1, 19, 20, 33] is a recently proposed hybrid of PoS with proof-
of-retrievability (PoR) [23]. A PoR demonstrates that the prover can retrieve a particular data
ﬁle of interest, either known to the veriﬁer, committed in a public commitment, or privately
preprocessed by a client who produces a veriﬁcation tag for the ﬁle. A PoRep demonstrates
that the prover is dedicating unique resources to storing a retrievable copy of the ﬁle, and is
therefore a useful proof of space. It has therefore been proposed as an alternative Sybil resistance
mechanism that is not only ASIC resistant and eco-friendly, but also has a useful side-eﬀect: it
provides ﬁle storage on real data. Furthermore, since the prover may run several independent
PoReps for the same ﬁle that each require unique resources, PoReps may be used as a publicly
veriﬁable proof of data replication/duplication.
A PoRep is required to be a PoS, and its security as a proof of data replication is closely
related to the space gap of the PoS. Formally, the security notion for PoReps is ϵ-rational
replication [19], which says that an adversary can save at most an ϵ fraction of its space by
deviating from storing the data in a replicated format. Storing data in a replicated format
is therefore an ϵ-Nash-equilibrium. This is the best possible security notion because a prover
can always sabotage its replicated format by scrambling its storage in an eﬃciently decodable
(yet no longer replicated) way. A PoRep that satisﬁes ϵ-rational replication is also a PoS with
an ϵ space gap. Intuitively, if a PoRep is not a tight proof of space then there may be some
adversary that would be rationally incentivized to deviate from honest behavior and therefore
likely destroy the replication format. This gives a whole new relevance to tight proofs of space,
because the security of PoReps is only meaningful when ϵ is reasonably small.
The goal of this work is to construct a practical and provably tight PoS that can also be
used as PoRep that satisﬁes ϵ-rational replication for arbitrarily small ϵ.
1.1 Related work
The original PoS of Dziembowski et. al. [18] was based on hard to pebble directed acyclic graphs
(DAGs), using a blend of techniques from superconcentrators, random bipartite expander graphs
and depth robust graphs [32]. During the oﬄine initialization the prover computes a certain
2

labeling of the graph using a collision-resistant hash function where the label ev on each node
v∈G of the graph is the output of the hash function on the labels of all parent nodes of v. It
outputs a commitment to this labeling along with a proof (either interactive or non-interactive)
that the committed labeling was “mostly” correct. This oﬄine proof consists of randomly
sampled labels and their parent labels, which the veriﬁer checks for consistency. During the
online challenge-response phase the veriﬁer simply asks for random labels that the prover must
produce along with a standard proof that these labels are consistent with the commitment.
Their construction leaves a space gap of at least 1 − 1
512.
The construction of Ren and Devadas from stacked bipartite expander graphs dramatically
improved on the space gap, although it is not secure against parallel attacks. Their construction
involvesλ levelsV1,...,V λ consisting of n nodes each, with edges between the layers deﬁned by
the edges of a constant-degree bipartite expander. The prover computes a labeling of the graph
just as in the Dziembowski et. al. PoS, however it only stores the labels on the ﬁnal level.
Otherwise, the protocol is roughly the same. Their construction still leaves a space gap of at
least 1/2 (and much larger with practical parameters, e.g. their construction requires at least
degree 40 graphs to achieve a space gap of less than 2 /3).
Recently, Abusalah et. al. [2] revived the simple PoS approach based on storing tables of
random functions. The basic idea is for the prover to compute and store the function table
of a random function f : [N] → [N] where f is chosen by the veriﬁer or a random public
challenge. During the online challenge-response the veriﬁer simply asks the prover to invert f
on a randomly sampled point x∈ [n]. The intuition for why this should be secure is that a
prover who has not stored most of the function table will likely have to brute force f−1(x),
performing Ω(N) work. Unfortunately, this simple approach fails to be a PoS due to Hellman’s
time/space tradeoﬀs which enable a prover to succeed with S space and T computation for any
ST =O(N). However, Abusalah et. al. build on this approach to achieve a provable time/space
tradeoﬀ of SkT = Ω(ϵkTk). This PoS is not secure against parallel attacks, and also has a very
large (even asymptotic) space gap of 1 − 1
64 logN .
Pietrzak [33] and Fisch et. al [20] independently proposed a simpler variant of the graph
labeling PoS by Dziembowski et. al. based solely on pebbling a depth robust graph (DRG).
A degree d DAG on n nodes is ( α,β )-depth robust if any subgraph on αn nodes contains a
path of at least length βn. It is trivial to construct DRGs of large degree (a complete DAG is
depth robust), but much harder to construct DRGs with small (constant or poly-logarithmic)
degree. Achieving constant α,β is only possible asymptotically with degree Ω(log N). Simply
instantiating the graph labeling PoS on a DRG results in a PoS with a 1 −α space gap that
is also secure against parallel attacks. Fisch et. al. also suggested combining this labeling PoS
with a veriﬁable delay function (VDF) [11] to increase the expense of labeling the graph without
increasing the proof veriﬁcation complexity. The delay on the VDF can be tuned depending on
the value of n. Both of these constructions were proposed in the context of designing PoReps.
In this variant of the PoS protocol, the prover uses the labeling of the graph to encode a data
ﬁle onn blocksD =d1,...,d n. The ith label ei is computed by ﬁrst deriving a key ki by hashing
the labels on the parents of the ith node, and then setting ei = ki⊕di. If all the labels are
stored then any data block can be quickly extracted from ei by recomputing ki. We’ll call this
a DAG encoding of the data input. The VDF approach uses an additional encoding scheme
(enc, dec) inside the DAG encoding, where enc is sequentially slow and dec is fast, to derive
ei = enc(ki⊕di). The data is decoded by computing di = dec(ei⊕ki).
The labeling PoS on a DRG is not technically a tight PoS because decreasingα also decreases
3

the time bound βn on the prover’s required computation to defeat the PoS. Moreover, while
there exist constructions of (α,β ) DRGs for arbitrarily small α, these constructions are purely
theoretical and are not viable in practice. Pietrzak [33] improved on the basic construction by
relying on a stronger property of special DRGs [6, 32] that are ( α,β,O (logn/ϵ))-depth robust
for all (α,β ) such that 1−α +β≥ 1−ϵ. In Pietrzak’s modiﬁed construction, the prover builds
a DRG on 4 n nodes and only stores the labels on the topologically last n nodes. This can
similarly be used as a PoRep where the data is encoded only on the last level and the labels on
previous levels are just used as keys. This sacriﬁces on data extraction time because extracting
the data requires recomputing most of the keys from scratch, which is as expensive as the PoS
initialization.
Pietrzak shows that a prover who deletes an ϵ′ fraction of the labels on the last n nodes
will not be able to re-derive them in fewer than n sequential steps. The value ϵ′ can be made
arbitrarily small, but at the expense of increasing the degree of the graph proportionally to
1/ϵ′. Moreover, although these special DRGs achieve asymptotic eﬃciency and are incredibly
intriguing from a theoretical perspective, they still do not have concretely practical degree.
According to the analysis in [6], achieving just a 1 /2 space gap with a PoS on N 32 byte
data blocks in Pietrzak’s construction would require instantiating these graphs with degree
2, 760 logN. The proof size is at least O(λd), so even for λ = 10 (i.e. 10 bit security) and
N = 2 30 the proof size would be at least 26MB. Furthermore, as ϵ decreases λ = O(1/ϵ) to
maintain the same security level. To achieve a space gap of 1 /10 with 10-bit security would
require d = 19, 310 logN and λ = 60 for a proof size of at least 1GB.
Boneh et. al. [11] describe a simple PoRep (also a PoS) just based on storing the output
of a decodable VDF on N randomly sampled points, which generalizes an earlier proposal by
Sergio Demian Lerner [25]. This is in fact an arbitrarily tight PoS with very practical proof sizes
(essentially optimal). However, the time complexity of initializing the prover’s O(N) storage
is O(N 2), and therefore is not practically feasible for large N. This construction is similar to
the PoS based on storing function tables [2], but uses the VDF as a moderately hard (non-
parallelizable) function on a much larger domain (exponential in the security parameter) and
stores a random subset of its function table. The reason for the large initialization complexity
is that the prover cannot amortize its cost of evaluating the VDF on the entire subset of points.
In an independent concurrent work, Cecchetti et. al [14] developed a similar idea to our
stacked DRGs, using butterﬂy networks instead of expander graphs, to construct a primitive
they called publicly incompressible encodings (PIEs). We elaborate on a comparison in the
Appendix.
1.2 Summary of Contributions
We construct a new tight PoS based on graph labeling with asymptotic proof size O(logN/ϵ)
where ϵ is the achieved space gap. We can instantiate this construction with relatively weak
depth robust graphs that do not require any special properties other than retaining Ω(N) depth
in subgraphs on some constant fraction of the nodes bounded away from 1 (e.g. our concrete
analysis is for 80% subgraphs).
PoS from Stacked DRGs Our basic approach is a combination of the stacked bipartite
expanders of Ren and Devadas [35] with depth robust graphs. Instead of stacking λ line graphs
we stackO(log(1/ϵ)) levels of ﬁxed-degree DRGs where ϵ is a construction parameter. We refer
4

to this graph construction as Stacked DRGs. We are able to show that this results in a PoS that
has only an ϵ space gap. Intuitively, the expander edges between layers amplify the dependence
of nodes on the last layer and nodes on earlier layers so that deletion of a smallϵ fraction of node
labels on the last level will require re-derivation of nearly all the node labels on the ﬁrst several
layers. Thus, since every layer is a DRG, recomputing the missing ϵ fraction of labels requires
Ω(N) sequential computation. It is easy to see that this would be the case if the prover were
only storing (1−ϵ)n labels on the last level and none of the labels on earlier levels, however the
analysis becomes much more diﬃcult when the prover is allowed to store any arbitrary (1 −ϵ)n
labels. This analysis is the main technical contribution of this work. Concretely, we analyze the
construction with an ( n, 0.80n, Ω(n)) DRG, i.e. deletion of 20% of nodes leaves a high depth
graph on the 80% remaining nodes, regardless of the value of ϵ.
Our construction is eﬃcient compared to prior constructions of tight PoS primarily because
we can keep the degree of the graphs ﬁxed for arbitrary ϵ while only increasing the number of
levels logarithmically in 1/ϵ. In a graph labeling PoS, the oﬄine PoS proofs sampleO(1/ϵ) labels
along with their parent labels, which the veriﬁer checks for consistency. Thus, any construction
based on this approach that requires scaling the degree of graphs by 1/ϵ also scales the proof size
by 1/ϵ, resulting in a proof complexity of at leastO(1/ϵ2). In our stacked DRG PoS construction
the oﬄine proof must include queries from each level to prove that each level of computed labels
are “mostly” correct. If done naively, O(1/ϵ) challenge labels are sampled from each level,
resulting in a proof complexity O(d/ϵ· log(1/ϵ)) where d is the degree of the level graphs. This
is already an improvement, however with a more delicate analysis we are able to go even further
and show that the total number of queries over all layers can be kept at O(1/ϵ), achieving an
overall proof complexity O(d/ϵ).2
The PoS on Stacked DRGs can also be used as the basis for a PoRep that satisﬁes ϵ-rational
replication for arbitrarily small ϵ.
The PoRep variant on this PoS simply uses the labels on the 𝓁− 1st level as keys to encode
the n-block data input D =d1,...,d n on the 𝓁th (last) level, using the same method described
earlier for encoding data into the labels of a PoS (see Related Work, [19, 20, 33]). However,
extracting data from this PoRep is as expensive as initializing the PoRep space because it
requires recomputing the keys on the 𝓁− 1st level.
PoRep from ZigZag Expander DRGs Our second contribution is a variant of the PoS on
Stacked DRGs that compromises slightly on eﬃciency (requires double the number of levels for
the same security guarantee) but improves the eﬃciency of extracting data when this is used as
a PoRep. Instead of adding edge dependencies between the layers, every layer is the union of a
DRG and a constant degree non-bipartite expander graph. The only edges between layers are
between nodes at the same indices. Since the graph is a DAG this means that the union of a
subset with its dependencies and targets is a constant fraction larger than the subset itself. By
alternating the direction of the edges between layers, forming a “zig-zag”, the dependencies of a
subset in one layer become targets of the same subset in the adjacent layer, and the dependencies
between layers expands. We refer to this graph construction as ZigZag DRGs . The PoRep on
ZigZag DRGs encodes in the labels of each layer the labels of the previous levels. The edges
within a layer enforce dependencies between labels by deriving a key for each encoding using a
2Asymptotically, this is close to the optimal proof complexity achievable for any PoS based on graph labeling
that has an ϵ space gap. If the prover claims to be storing n labels and the proof queries less than 1 /ϵ then a
random deletion of an ϵ fraction of these labels evades detection with probability at least (1 −ϵ)1/ϵ≈ 1/e.
5

cryptographic hash function. A special key is derived for the encoding on each ith node from the
labels on the parents of theith node within the same layer. Essentially, this construction iterates
the basic DAG encoding of the data inputs𝓁 times (treating each layer as an independent DAG)
rather than performing a long key derivation. The labels in any layer can be used to recover the
labels in the preceding layer. Furthermore, the decoding step can be done in parallel.
c1 c2 c3 c4 c5
d1 d2 d3 d4 d5
c6 c7 c8 c9 c10
c11 c12 c13 c14 c15
Stacked DRGs
c1 c2 c3 c4 c5
d1 d2 d3 d4 d5
c6 c7 c8 c9 c10
c11 c12 c13 c14 c15
ZigZag DRGs
Figure 1.1: The topologies of the stacked DRGs and ZigZag DRGs are depicted with 3 layers
and 5 nodes per layer. Red edges are the DRG edges and blue edges are expander edges. The
blue edges in ZigZag DRGs are the same as in Stacked DRGs but projected into the layers. Blue
edges in ZigZag DRGs are reversed every other layer while red edges are redeﬁned by reversing
the order of the nodes. Dashed edges correspond to encoding instead of hashing dependencies.
In the PoS on Stacked DRGs the prover computes a labeling of the graph and stores the labels on
the nodes in green. In the PoRep on ZigZag DRGs each labeling on a layer encodes the previous
layer and the prover stores only the encoding labels of the green nodes.
Contents
1 Introduction 1
1.1 Related work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
1.2 Summary of Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
2 Preliminaries 7
2.1 Proof of Retrievable Commitment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
2.2 Proofs of Space . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2.3 Proofs of Replication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
2.4 Graph pebbling games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
2.5 Veriﬁable Delay Encodings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
2.6 Depth Robust Graphs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
6

2.7 Expander graphs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
3 Stacked DRG Proof of Space 21
3.1 Review of the Stacked-Expander PoS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
3.2 A tight PoS from stacked DRGs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
4 “ZigZag” DRG Proof of Replication 30
4.1 ZigZag PoRep Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
4.2 Invertible pebbling games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
4.3 PoS analysis of ZigZag PoRep . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
A Concurrent work: PIEs 41
B Stacked DRGs with Superconcentrators 44
C Mixing Data Labels in Stacked DRGs with Expanders 48
2 Preliminaries
2.1 Proof of Retrievable Commitment
A proof-of-retrievability (PoR) is an interactive proof system in which a veriﬁer sends a ﬁle F
to a prover, retains a compact veriﬁcation key, and later obtains a compact proof that prover
can retrieve F intact. The compactness requirement excludes trivial solutions, such as sending
the full ﬁle F back to the veriﬁer or requiring the veriﬁer to retain F . They were introduced
in [8,23] and further developed in [12,17,37]. An important security property of PoR is that the
veriﬁer can extract and recover the ﬁleF through suﬃciently many successful challenge-response
queries to the prover.
A proof-of-retrievability (PoR) [12,17,23,37], or the related proof-of-data-possession (PDP)
[8], is an interactive protocol that enables a prover to convince a veriﬁer that it can retrieve the
correct contents of a prespeciﬁed ﬁle without incurring costly communication. The ﬁle is ﬁrst
preprocessed by a client who publishes a data tag. The veriﬁer does not need to store the ﬁle and
only retains the short data tag for veriﬁcation. In a private-key PoR the veriﬁer needs to also
know the private-key used to generate the data tag whereas in a public-key PoR the veriﬁcation
can be performed by anyone without access the private-key. Crucially, the prover cannot learn
the private-key as otherwise this compromises the PoR/PDP security. PoR security is distinct
from PDPs because it requires that there is a public extraction algorithm that can actually
extract the contents of the ﬁle through suﬃciently many repeated interactions with the prover.
A simple public PoR can be constructed from a Merkle commitment (i.e. a Merkle tree
over the blocks of the ﬁle). The veriﬁer need only retain the Merkle commitment root. To
verify that the prover is still storing a (1 −ϵ) fraction of the committed ﬁle blocks it queries
for a randomly selected constant number of blocks. The prover then responds with the blocks
and Merkle inclusion proofs for each. This public PoR is distinct from both public-key and
private-key PoRs in that it is keyless and thus there is no secret key for the prover to potentially
compromise. This is a stronger form of public veriﬁability.
Another way to describe this protocol is as a proof-of-retrievable-commitment (PoRC) [19],
i.e. a publicly veriﬁable proof that the prover can retrieve the contents of a committed ﬁle. The
7

security of a PoRC does not rely on any client preprocessing. In fact, this technique is used
ubiquitously in interactive proofs, including proofs of space, CS proofs [29], and more generally
interactive oracle proofs (IOPs) [10]. Note that without erasure codes this is only a proof that
a (1−ϵ) fraction of the ﬁle blocks can be retrieved. This is a special case of a (1 −ϵ,C)-PoRC,
whereC is a set cover of the committed data, and the protocol guarantees that a (1−ϵ) fraction
of the sets (in this case blocks) can be retrieved.
The PoRC based on a Merkle commitment can be more generally constructed from anyvector
commitment (VC) [13,27], which is a compact commitment to a vector of m values (x1,...,x m)
that can be opened at any index with a succinct opening proof. A VC is position binding in the
sense that each ith position can only be opened to a unique value xi. This makes VCs distinct
from set commitments (e.g cryptographic accumulators), which only guarantee that membership
in the set can be veriﬁed. Merkle trees have O(logm) size opening proofs and there exist VCs
that trade larger public parameters for constant size opening proofs [13,26].
Similar to a PoR, the soundness of a PoRC is deﬁned in terms of a public extraction algo-
rithm. An important distinction is that the public extraction algorithm does not require a key
to extract the data. Without going into the details of the security deﬁnition, a PoRC scheme
is a µ-sound (1−ϵ)-PoRC if for any adversary passing the PoRC protocol with probability µ
there is a public extraction algorithm that can rewind the online adversary on challenges and
ultimately extract a (1−ϵ) fraction of the blocks of the ﬁle.
2.2 Proofs of Space
A (persistent) proof of space (PoS) [18] is an interactive proof between and prover and veriﬁer
in which the prover can only succeed if it persistently stores some advice of a minimum size.
There is an “oﬄine” phase in which the prover generates this advice and outputs a compact tag
to the veriﬁer. This is followed by an “online” phase where the veriﬁer challenges the prover
and the prover uses its advice to generate a response.
Formally, the PoS interactive protocol involves three protocols:
1. Setup The setup runs on security parameters λ and outputs public parameters pp for the
scheme. The public parameters are implicit inputs to the next two protocols.
2. Initialization is an interactive protocol between a prover P and veriﬁer V that run on
shared input (id,N ). P outputs Φ andS, whereS is its storage advice and Φ is a compact
O(polylog(N)) string given to the veriﬁer.
3. Execution is an interactive protocol betweenP andV whereP runs on inputS andV runs
on input Φ. V sends challenges to P , obtains back a proof π, and outputs accept or reject.
The correctness and security requirements are as follows.
Eﬃciency. The commitment Φ isO(polylog(N)) size and the veriﬁer runs in timeO(polylog(N)).
Completeness. The prover succeeds with probability 1 (causes veriﬁer to accept) if it follows
the protocol honestly.
8

Soundness. The PoS is (s,t,µ )-sound if any for all adversariesP∗ running in timet and storing
advice of size s during Execution passes veriﬁcation with probability at most µ = negl(λ). The
PoS is parallel (s,t,µ )-sound if P∗ may run in parallel time t.
2.3 Proofs of Replication
We review the syntax of a PoRep scheme from [19]. PoRep operates on arbitrary dataD∈{ 0, 1}∗
of up to O(poly(λ)) size for a given security parameter λ.
1. PoRep.Setup(λ,T )→ pp is a one-time setup that takes in a security parameter λ, time
parameter T , and outputs public parameters pp. T determines the challenge-response
period.
2. PoRep.Preproc(sk,D )→ ˜D,τD is a preprocessing algorithm that may take a secret key sk
along with the data input D and outputs preprocessed data ˜D along with its data tag τD,
which at least includes the size N =|D| of the data. The preprocessor operates in keyless
mode when sk =⊥ .
3. PoRep.Replicate(id,τD, ˜D)→R, aux takes a replica identiﬁerid and the preprocessed data
˜D along with its tag τD. It outputs a replica R and (compact) auxilliary information
aux which will be an input for the Prove and Verify procedures. (For example, aux could
contain a proof about the replication output or a commitment).
4. PoRep.Extract(pp,id,R )→ ˜D on input replica R and identiﬁer id outputs the data ˜D.
5. PoRep.Prove(R, aux,id,r )→π on input replicaR, auxilliary information aux, replica iden-
tiﬁer id, and challenge r, outputs a proof πid.
6. PoRep.Poll(aux)→r: This takes as input the auxiliary replica information aux and outputs
a public challenge r.
7. PoRep.Verify(id,τD,r, aux,π )→{ 0, 1} on input replica identiﬁer id, data tag τD, public
challenge r, auxilliary replication information aux, and proof π it outputs a decision to
accept (1) or reject (0) the proof.
PoRep interactive protocol The PoRep interactive protocol is illustrated in Figure 1. The
setup (whether a deterministic, trusted, or transparent public setup) is run externally and pp is
given as an input to all parties. For each ﬁle D, a preprocessor (a special party or the prover
when operating in keyless mode, but not the veriﬁer) runs ( ˜D,τD)← PoRep.Preproc(sk,D ).
The outputs ˜D,τD are inputs to the prover and τD to the veriﬁer.
ϵ-Rational Replication An ideal security goal for PoRep protocols would be to guarantee
that any prover who simultaneously passes veriﬁcation in k distinct PoRep protocols (under k
distinct identities) where the input to PoRep.Replicate is a ﬁle Di in the ith protocol must be
storing k independent replicas, one for each Di, even if several of the ﬁles are identical.
Formally, “storing k independent replicas” means that the ﬁle can be partitioned into k
independent blocks (or more generally substrings) such that each block encodes the ﬁle and
there is a universal decode algorithm that can decode the ﬁle independently from each block.
9

Prover Veriﬁer
Replication Phase
1 : R, aux←
R
PoRep.Replicate(id,τ D, ˜D)
id, aux
Challenge-Response Phase
2 : r←
R
PoRep.Poll(aux)
r
3 : π←
R
PoRep.Prove(R, aux,id,r )
id,π
4 : b←
R
PoRep.Verify(id,τ D,r, aux,π )
Figure 2.1: The PoRep interactive protocol is depicted above. The setup and data preprocessing is run
externally generatingpp and ˜D,τ D. The challenge-response protocol is timed, and the veriﬁer rejects any
response that is received more than T time steps after sending the challenge. This is formally captured
by requiring PoRep.Prove to run in parallel time at most T . A PoRep protocol is a special case of a PoS
protocol where Initialization is the Replication Phase and Execution is the challenge-response phase.
We call this a k-replication of a ﬁle. Unfortunately, this security property is impossible to
achieve. An adversary can easily “sabotage” its replication storage, e.g. by encrypting it with a
key and storing the key separately. This still allows the adversary to decode the original string
quickly and otherwise interact with the veriﬁer in exactly the same way.
Instead, a rational model of security is deﬁned in [19]. This security model, called ϵ-rational
replication roughly says that a PoRep is a µ-sound ϵ-rational replication if for any adversary
passing the protocol with probability µ there is an “equivalent” adversary who passes with at
least the same probability and store a k-replication of the ﬁle without incurring more than a
1/(1−ϵ) storage overhead (i.e. the adversary saves at most anϵ fraction of its storage by deviating
from a k-replication strategy). The security model also accounts for auxiliary information that
the adversary might be storing and ensures that the “equivalent” adversary can still extract all
the same information from its storage including data unrelated to the PoRep protocol.
Proof of space and PoRC A PoRep is implicitly a publicly veriﬁable proof of space (Sec-
tion 2.2). A prover that passes veriﬁcation in the interactive challenge-reponse protocol for a
ﬁle ˜D of claimed size| ˜D| =N must be using Ω(N) persistent storage. Moreover, a prover that
passes veriﬁcation in k instances of this protocol with distinct ids id1,...,id k and claimed ﬁle
sizes N1,...,N k must be using Ω(M) space where M =∑k
i=1Ni. In fact, it is a tight PoS with
10

only an ϵ space gap provided that it satisﬁes ϵ-rational replication, and therefore tight proofs of
space are necessary for PoReps. A PoRep is also a proof of retrievability of the ﬁle D. In fact,
suﬃcient conditions for a (correct) PoRep scheme to satisfy ϵ-rational replication are that it is
a tight PoS and a PoRC of the data and replica with respect to commitments τD and aux. This
was proven (c.f. Lemma 2, [19]) using a knowledge of compression assumption , which roughly
says that any prover who knows an algorithm to compress auxiliary data together with the
incompressible replica must know an algorithm to compress the auxiliary data independently by
the same amount and store the incompressible part separately.
2.4 Graph pebbling games
Pebbling games are the main analytical tool used in graph-based proofs of space and memory
hard functions.
Black pebbling game The black pebbling game is a single-player game on a DAGG = (V,E ).
At the start of the game the player chooses a starting conﬁguration of P0⊆V of vertices that
contain black pebbles. The game then proceeds in rounds where in each round the player may
place a black pebble on a vertex only if all of its parent vertices currently contain pebbles placed
in some prior round. In this case we say that the vertex is available. Placing a pebble constitutes
a move, whereas placing pebbles on all simultaneously available vertices consumes a round. The
adversary may also remove any black pebble at any point. The game stops once the adversary
has placed pebbles on all vertices in some target/challenge set VC⊆V .
Pebbling complexity The pebbling game on graph G with vertex set V and target set
VC⊆ V is (s,t )-hard if no player can pebble the set VC in t moves (or fewer) starting from s
initial pebbles, and is (s,t )-parallel-hard if no player can complete the pebbling in t rounds (or
fewer) starting from an initial conﬁguration of at most s pebbles. If the hardness holds for any
subset containing an α fraction of VC then the pebbling game on ( G,VC) is (s,t,α )-(parallel)-
hard.
In a random pebbling game a challenge node is sampled randomly from VC after the player
commits to the initial conﬁguration P0 of s vertices, and the hardness measure includes the
adversary’s probability of success. The random pebbling game is ( s,t,ϵ )-(parallel)-hard if from
any s ﬁxed initial pebbles the probability that a uniformly sampled challenge node can be
pebbled in t or fewer moves (resp. t or fewer rounds) is less than ϵ.
Fact 1. The random pebbling game on a DAG G on n nodes with target set VC is (s,t,α )-
parallel-hard if and only if the deterministic pebbling game on G with target set VC is (s,t,α )-
parallel-hard.
Proof. Fix any P0 of size s. If the random pebbling game on G with target set VC is (s,t,α )-
parallel-hard then less than an α fraction of the nodes in VC can be pebbled individually in t
rounds starting from P0. Therefore, every subset U in VC of size α|VC| contains at least one
node that cannot be pebbled individually in t rounds, hence the (deterministic) pebbling game
is (s,t,α )-parallel-hard. Conversely, if G is (s,t,α )-parallel-hard then less than an α fraction of
nodes in VC can be pebbled individually in r rounds. Otherwise, these nodes form a subset U
of size α|VC| and they can all be simultaneously pebbled in parallel in t rounds. This implies
11

that the probability a randomly sampled node from VC can be pebbled in t rounds is less than
α.
Fact 2. A random pebbling game with a single challenge is (s,t,α )-parallel-hard if and only if
the the random pebbling with κ challenges is (s,t,α k)-parallel-hard.
Proof. If the random pebbling game is ( s,t,α ) hard then by Fact 1 the deterministic pebbling
game is (s,r,α ) hard, hence there are at most anα fraction of the nodes inVC that can be pebbled
in r rounds from s initial pebbles. The probability that κ independent random challenges are
all nodes from this α fraction is at most ακ. Conversely, if the random pebbling game is not
(s,t,α ) hard then the adversary can pebble all the κ challenges simultaneously in parallel time
t succeeding on each challenge individually with probability greater than α, hence succeeding
on all the challenges with probability greater that ακ.
DAG labeling game A labeling game on a degree d DAGG is analogous to the pebbling
game, but involves a cryptographic hash function H :{0, 1}dm→{ 0, 1}m, often modeled as
a random oracle. The vertices of the graph are indexed in [ n] and each ith vertex associated
with the label ci whereci =H(i) if i is a source vertex, or otherwise ci =H(i||cparents(i)) where
cparents(i) = {cv1,...,c vd} if v1,...,v d are the parents of the ith vertex, i.e. the vertices with a
directed edge to vertex i. The game ends when the player has computed all the labels on a
target/challenge set of vertices VC. A “fresh” labeling of G could be derived by choosing a salt
id for the hash function so that Hid(x) =H(id||x), and the labeling may be associated with the
identiﬁerid.
The complexity of the labeling game (on a fresh identiﬁer id) is measured in queries to
the hash function instead of pebbles. This includes the number of labels initially stored, the
total number of queries, and the total rounds of sequential queries, etc. The labeling game is
(s,r,q,ϵ,δ )-labeling-hard if no algorithm that stores initial advice of size s and after receiving
a uniform random challenge node v∈ [n] makes a total of q queries to H inr sequential rounds
can output the correct label on v with probability greater than ϵ over the challengev andδ over
the random oracle H.
Random oracle query complexity A general correspondence between the complexity of
the black pebbling game on the underlying graph G and the random oracle labeling game is not
yet known. However, Pietrzak [33] recently proved an equivalence between the parallel hardness
of the randomized pebbling game and the parallel hardness of the random oracle labeling game
for arbitrary initial conﬁgurations S0 adapting the “ex post facto” technique from [16].
Theorem 1 (Pietrzak [33]). If the random pebbling game on a DAG G with n nodes and in-
degreed is (s,r,ϵ )-parallel-hard then the labeling game onG with a random oracleH :{0, 1}md→
{0, 1}m is (s′,r,ϵ,δ,q )-labeling-hard with s′ =s(m− 2(logn + logq))− log(1/δ).
Generic PoS from graph labeling game Many PoS constructions are based on the graph
labeling game [18, 33, 35]. Let G(·) be a family of d-in-regular DAGs such that Gn ←G (n)
is a d-in-regular DAG on N > n nodes and VC(n) is a subset of n nodes from Gn. Let
H :{0, 1}dm→{ 0, 1}m be a collision-resistant hash function (or random oracle). Let Chal(n, Λ)
denote a distribution over challenge vectors in [ N]λ. For each n∈ N, the generic PoS based on
12

the labeling game with Gn and target set VC(n) is as follows:
Initialization: The prover plays the labeling game on Gn using a hash function Hid = H(id||·).
The prover does the following:
1. Computes the labels c1,...,c N on all nodes of G and commits to them in com using any
vector commitment scheme.
2. Obtains vector of λ challenges⃗ r←
R
Chal(n) from the veriﬁer (or non-interactively derives
them using as a seed Hid(com)).
3. For challenges r1,...,r λ , the prover opens the label on the rith node of Gn, which was
committed in com, as well as the labels cparents(ri) of all its parent nodes. The labels are
added to a list L with corresponding opening proofs in a list Λ and the prover outputs the
proof Φ = (com,L, Λ).
The veriﬁer checks the openings Λ with respect to com. It also checks for each challenge
specifying an index v ∈ [N], the label cv in L label and its parent labels cparents(cv), that
cv =Hid(v||cparents(cv)). Finally, the prover stores as S only the n labels in VC.
Execution: The veriﬁer selects κ challenge nodes v1,...,v κ uniformly at random from VC. The
online prover uses its input S to respond with the label on v and an opening of com at the
appropriate index. The veriﬁer can repeat this sequentially, or ask for a randomly sampled
vector of challenge vertices to amplify soundness.
Given the correspondence between the hardness of the random oracle labeling game and
black pebbling game in the parallel pebbling/computation models, we will focus on parallel
pebbling complexity as this is easier to analyze directly.
Red-black pebbling game The soundness of the generic labeling PoS is captured through
the red-black pebbling game. An adversary places both black and red pebbles on the graph
initially. The red pebbles correspond to incorrect labels that the adversary computes during
Initialization and the black pebbles correspond to labels the adversary stores in its advice S.
Without loss of generality, an adversary that cheats generates some label that does not require
any space to store, which is why red pebbles will be “free” pebbles and counted separately from
black pebbles. The adversary’s choice of red pebble placements (speciﬁcally how many to place
in diﬀerent regions of the graph) is constrained by the λ non-interactive challenges, which may
catch these red pebbles and reveal them to the veriﬁer. The formal description of the red-black
pebbling security game for a graph labeling PoS construction with G(n), VC(n), and Chal(n) is
as follows.
Red-Black-PebblesA(G,VC, Chal,t ):
1. A outputs a set R⊆ [N] (of red pebble indices) and S⊆ [N] (of black pebble indices).
2. The challenger samples c1,...,c λ←
R
Chal(n). If ci∈R for somei thenA immediately loses.
The challenger additionally samples v1,....,v κ uniformly at random from indices in VC(n)
and sends these to A.
13

3. A plays the random (black) pebbling game onG(n) with the challengesv1,...,v κ and initial
pebble conﬁguration P0 =R∪S. It runs for t parallel rounds and outputs its ﬁnal pebble
conﬁguration Pt.A wins if Pt contains pebbles on all of v1,...,v κ.
We formally deﬁne PoS soundness for the special case of any graph labeling PoS in terms of
complexity of Red-Black-PebblesA(G,VC,t ). Let c : N→ N denote a cost function c : N→ N
representing the parallel time cost (e.g. in sequential steps on a PRAM machine) of computing
a label on a node of G(n) for each n∈ N.
Deﬁnition 1. A graph labeling PoS with G(n),VC(n), Chal(n) and cost function c(n) is parallel
(s,c (n)·t,µ )-sound if and only if the probability that anyA wins Red-Black-PebblesA(G,VC, Chal,t )
is bounded by µ where|S| =s.
2.5 Veriﬁable Delay Encodings
A veriﬁable delay encoding (VDE) is a non-parallelizable encoding that has high parallel time
complexity to compute, but with a fast decoding operation. A VDE may be a special kind of
veriﬁable delay function [11]. It is more restrictive than a VDF because it must be decodable,
but it is less restrictive because the encoding does not need to be unique. Existing pactical
(heuristic) examples of VDEs include the Pohlig-Hellmann cipher, Sloth [24], MiMC [3], and a
special class of permutation polynomials [11].
Formally, a VDE is a tuple of three algorithmsVDE = VDE.Setup, VDE.Enc, VDE.Dec deﬁned
as follows (c.f. [19]).
1. VDE.Setup(t,λ )→pp is given security parameter λ and delay parameter t produce public
parameters pp. By convention, the public parameters also specify an input space X and
a code spaceY. We assume that X is eﬃciently samplable. VDE.Setup might need secret
randomness, leading to a scheme requiring a trusted setup.
2. VDE.Enc(pp,x )→y takes an input x∈X and produces an output y∈Y .
3. VDE.Dec(pp,y )→x takes an input y∈Y and produces an output x∈X .
Correctness For allpp generated by VDE.Setup(λ,t ) and allx∈X , algorithm VDE.Enc(pp,x )
must run in parallel timet with poly(log(t),λ ) processors, and VDE.Dec(pp, VDE.Enc(pp,x )) =x
with probability 1.
Deﬁnition 2 (sequentiality, c.f. [11]) . For a function σ(t) a VDE is σ-sequential if for any
pair of randomized algorithms A0, which runs in total time O(poly(t,λ )), and A1, which runs
in parallel time t−σ(t) on at most O(poly(t)) processors, the following probability distribution
over pp← VDE.Setup(t,λ ) is negligible:
Pr
[
y←A 1(α, pp,x )
∧ y = VDE.Enc(x)
⏐⏐⏐⏐⏐
x←
R
X
α←A 0(λ, pp,t )
]
< negl(λ)
A stronger security property is for the VDE to behave like an ideal cipher [19]. This is more
than what is needed for most applications of VDFs/VDEs, but is relevant to their application
14

to proofs of space in order to facilitate incompressibility arguments. We can argue that an
algorithm that can use an advice string to succeed with high probability in computing the
Encode(pp,·) function in time less than t would be able to compress the function table of a
random permutation, similar to how advice string lower bounds are proven in the random oracle
model.
Deﬁnition 3 (c.f. [19]). An ideal delay permutation (IDP) is a family of oracles {O(t)
IDP} that
implement a random permutation Π and respond to two types of queries. On a query (q, 0) the
oracleO(t)
IDP internally simulates t sequential queries to Π−1 and then outputs Π(q). On a query
(q, 1) it outputs Π−1(q).
2.6 Depth Robust Graphs
A directed acyclic graph (DAG) on n nodes with d-indegree is (n,α,β,d ) depth robust graph
(DRG) if every subgraph of αn nodes contains a path of length at least βn.
Depth robust graph constructions DRGs were ﬁrst noted by Erd˝ os, Graham, and Sze-
meredi [32], who constructed a family of ( n,α,β,c logn)-depth robust graphs using extreme
constant-degree bipartite expander graphs, for some constants α,β,c that satisfy speciﬁc con-
straints. Mahmoody, Moran, and Vadhan [28] constructed a more ﬂexible family of DRGs that
are (n,α,α −ϵ,c log2n) depth robust for all α< 1. Alwen et. al. [6] recently improved the EGS
construction to obtain DRGs for arbitrary α,β as well and O(logn) degree (i.e. with asymptot-
ically better degree than MMV). All these constructions still rely on extreme constant-degree
expanders (also called local expanders). Explicit constructions of local expanders exist [30],
however they are complicated to implement and their concrete practicality is hindered by very
large hidden constants. The most eﬃcient way to instantiate these extreme expander graphs
is probabilistically. We discuss probabilistic constructions of bipartite expander graphs in Sec-
tion 2.7.
A probabilistic DRG construction outputs a graph that is a DRG with overwhelming proba-
bility. Instantiating any of the above DRG constructions with probabilistic bipartite expanders
results in a probabilistic DRG. However, even probabilistic versions of the above constructions
are still not concretely eﬃcient due to their use of local expanders. Alwen et. al. [5] proposed
and analyzed the most eﬃcient probabilistic DRG construction to date. The analysis still leaves
large gaps between security and eﬃciency although was shown to resist depth-reducing attacks
empirically. Their construction is also locally navigatable, meaning that it comes with an eﬃcient
parent function to derive the parents of any node in the graph using polylogarithmic time and
space.
Deﬁnition 4. An (n,α,β,d )-DRG sampling algorithm runs in time ˜O(n logn) and a function
DRG.Sample(n,σ )→ G that takes an s-bit seed and outputs a graph on n nodes indexed in [n]
such that G is (n,α,β,d ) depth robust graph with probability 1− negl(n) over σ←
R
{0, 1}s. The
sampling algorithm is locally navigatable if there is an algorithm DRG.Parents(n,σ,i ) that runs
in time O(polylogn) and outputs a list P⊆ [n] of the parents of the node at index i∈ [n] in the
graphGσ←DRG.Sample(n,σ ).
15

2.7 Expander graphs
The vertex expansion of a graph G on vertex set V characterizes the size of the boundary of
vertex subsets S⊆ V (i.e. the number of vertices in V\S that are neighbors with vertices in
S).
Deﬁnition 5. LetG be an undirected graph on a vertex set V of size n∈ N and for any subset
S⊆V deﬁne Γ(S) to be the set of vertices inV\S that have an edge to some vertex in S. For any
constants 0<α<β < 1,G is an (n,α,β ) expander graph if and only if |Γ(S)∪S|≥ βn for all
S of size|S|≥ αn. For any δ >0, the set S is called (1+δ)-expanding if|Γ(S)∪S|≥ (1+δ)|S|.
In the case of directed bipartite graphs, vertex expansion is deﬁned by the minimum number
of sources connected to any given number of sinks.
Deﬁnition 6. For any constants α,β where 0 < α < β <1 and integer n∈ N, an (n,α,β )
bipartite expander is a directed bipartite graph with n sources and n sinks such that any subset
of αn sinks are connected to at least βn sources. For any δ >0, a subset S of sinks is called
(1 +δ)-expanding if it is connected to at least (1 +δ)|S| sources.
It is easy to construct an undirected expander graph given a bipartite expander as deﬁned
above.
Claim 1. LetH be a (n,α,β ) bipartite expander graph with bounded degreed, sources and sinks
labeled by indices in [n] and edge set E⊆ [n]× [n]. Deﬁne the undirected graph G with vertices
labeled in [n] and edge set E′ such that (i,j )∈ E′ (for i⁄= j) if and only if (i,j )∈ E or
(j,i )∈E. Then G has bounded degree 2d and is an (n,α,β ) expander.
Proof. Every vertex in G has at most degree 2 d becauseH has bounded degree d, and the
number of edges added to any node indexed with label i inG is at most the sum of number of
edges incident to the ith source and ith sink inH respectively. Now consider any subset S⊆ [n]
of αn vertices in G. S also corresponds to a subset of the sources in H with the same index
labels and is connected to at least βn sinksT⊆ [n]. For each s∈S andt∈T wheres⁄=t there
is an edges (s,t ) inG. Therefore, Γ(S) =T\S and|Γ(S)|∪ S =|T|≥ βn.
Given this equivalence, for the remainder of this section we focus on constructions of constant
degree bipartite expanders.
Constructing bipartite expanders There is a rich literature on constructions of bipartite
expanders, and includes both explicit and randomized constructions of constant degree bipartite
graphs with very good expansion properties. The randomized construction of Chung [15] simply
deﬁnes the edges of a d-regular bipartite expander on 2n vertices by connecting thedn outgoing
edges of the sources to the dn incoming edges of the sinks via a random permutation Π :
[d]× [n]→ [d]× [n]. More precisely, the ith source is connected to the jth sink if there is some
k1,k 2∈ [d] such that Π(k1,i ) = (k2,j ). A general relationship between the degree and expansion
is known, which holds with overwhelming probability over the choice of the permutation. The
following lemma was ﬁrst proven by Bassalygo [9] and Sch¨ oning [36], and a much simpler proof
was given by Ren and Devadas.
16

Lemma 1 (RD [35]). The Chung random bipartite graph construction is a d-regular (n,α,β )
expander with probability 1− negl(nHb(α)) for all d,α,β satisfying:
Hb(α) +Hb(β) +d(βHb(α/β)−Hb(α))< 0 (2.1)
whereHb(x) =−x log2x− (1−x) log2(1−x) is the binary entropy function.
For example, the above formula shows that for α = 1/2 and β = 0.80 Chung’s construction
gives an (n, 0.5, 0.80) expander for d≥ 8, meaning any subset of 50% of the sinks are connected
to at least 80% of the sources when the degree is at least 8.
Expansion vs subset size In general, the expansion factor (the ratio β/α) improves in
smaller subsets: if a given expansion factor holds with overwhelming probability in large subsets
then it also holds with overwhelming probability in smaller subsets. On the other hand, the
absolute expansion β is monotonically non-decreasing as a function of α because the expansion
of any set is at least the expansion of its subsets.
Lemma 2. For any k > 1 and d > 2, if the output of Chung’s construction is a d-regular
(n,α,kα ) bipartite expander for someα< d−k−1
k(d−2) with probability 1−negl(nHb(α)) thenβG(α′)≥
kα′ for every subset of size α′<α with probability 1− negl(nHb(α′)).
Proof. For ﬁxedd andk deﬁneφ(α) =Hb(α) +Hb(kα) +dkαHb(1/k)−dHb(α). By Lemma 1,
Chung’s construction outputs a graph that is a d-regular (n,α,kα ) bipartite expander with
probability 1− negl(nHb(α)) as long as φ(α) < 0. We will show that if φ(α) < 0 for some
α within the domain X = (0, d−k−1
k(d−2)), then φ(α′) < 0 for all α′ < α. We will ﬁrst prove two
subclaims:
1. φ is smooth on α∈ (0, 1/k) (i.e. twice diﬀerentiable), and lim α→0φ = 0.
2. φ is decreasing at α = 0 (i.e. increasing in the limit α→ 0) and convex on X.
Together these imply that if φ(α) < 0 for α∈ X then φ(α′) < 0 for all α′ < α. Suppose
not, then there exists some point α′ < α such that φ(α′)≥ 0 > φ(α). Since φ is continuous
on X and initially negative and decreasing it must increase on some subinterval of (0 ,α′) and
then decrease again on some subinterval of ( α′,α ). However, this contradicts the fact that φ is
convex onX, and hence once it starts increasing at any point in X it will not decrease again in
any higher interval.
Proof of subclaim 1 : φ is a linear combination of Hb(α), Hb(kα), and α, which are all real
and twice diﬀerentiable on (0, 1/k). In particular, H′(α) = log2(1−α)− log2(α) and H′′(α) =
−1
log2(e)α(1−α). Finally, lim α→0Hb(α) = limα→0Hb(kα) = 0, hence the limit α→ 0 of any linear
combination of Hb(α), Hb(kα), and α is 0.
Proof of subclaim 2 : We ﬁrst show that limα→0φ′ =−∞. Note that φ′(α) =H′
b(α)+kH′
b(αk)+
dkHb(1/k)−dH′
b(α). As α→ 0 the limit is determined by the terms involvingH′
b(α) andH′(αk),
which go to−∞ whiledkHb(1/k) is constant. Since kH′
b(αk)− (d− 1)H′
b(α) =k(log2(1−αk)−
log2(αk))<−k log2(αk)− (d− 1)H′
b(α) we get:
lim
α→0
φ′< lim
α→0
−k log2(αk) + (d− 1) log2(α) = lim
α→0
(d−k− 1) log2(α) =−∞
17

Now looking at the second derivative, φ′′(α) =k2H′′
b (αk)− (d− 1)H′′(α):
φ′′(α) = −1
log2(e)α
( k
1−αk + d− 1
1−α
)
Hence φ′′ > 0 if and only if ( d− 1)(1−αk) > k(1−α). Rearranging the equation, we get
α< d−k−1
k(d−2).
Corollary 1. For d = 8 Chung’s construction is an 8-regular bipartite graph such that every
subset of at most 1/3 of the nodes is 2-expanding, i.e. it is an (n,α, 2α)-bipartite expander for
every α≤ 1/3 with overwhelming probability.
Proof. Pluggingα = 1/3 andβ = 2/3 into the formula for degree (Equation 2.1) givesd = 7.21<
8. With d = 8 andk = 2 the condition in Lemma 2 is satisﬁed: α = 1/3< (d−k−1)/k(d−2) =
5/12.
For ﬁxed d the expansion improves further as α decreases. One can easily verify (by re-
peated application of L’Hopital’s rule) that the limit as α → 0 of the expression ( Hb(α) +
Hb(kα))/(Hb(α)−kαHb(1/k)) goes to k + 1. Of course, when α becomes too small the expan-
sion no longer holds with overwhelming probability. Figure 2.2 provides a table of expansion
factors over a range of α with ﬁxed degree d = 8. Figure 2.3 plots the expansion as a function
of subset size.
Expansion boundary In the analysis of our constructions we will also look at the boundary
of subsets in an expander graph. In an undirected expander, this is simply Γ( S) as we deﬁned
already. In the case of bipartite expanders, the analogous “boundary” of a set of sources is the
set of sinks connected to these sources that have distinct index labels from the sources. We can
lower bound the size of the boundary by β−α. Lemma 1 gives a smooth lower bound on β−α
for Chung’s bipartite expander graphs that we can show has a unique local maximum in (0 , 1).
Conveniently, this allows us to lower bound the value of α−β in any given range by examining
just the end points. In particular, when d = 8 this achieves a local max at approximately
α = 1/3 (where the expansion factor reaches 2), which can be seen in Figure 2.3. We prove the
claim analytically for arbitrary d.
To simplify the analysis, we look at the function deﬁned by the zeros ofφ(α,β ) =d(βHb(α/β)−
Hb(α)) + 2 = 0. Any α,β satisfying this relation also satisﬁes the relation in Lemma 1 because
Hb(α) + Hb(β) < 2 when β > α. (More generally we can substitute c if it is known that
Hb(α) + Hb(β) < c). This implicitly deﬁnes β as a function of α, as well as the function
ˆβ =β−α. More precisely, The implicit function ˆβ(α) deﬁned by pairs of points (α, ˆβ(α)) such
that φ(α,α + ˆβ(α)) = 0 is a lower bound to the boundary of subsets of size α, which holds at
any point α with probability at least 1− negl(nHb(α)).
Lemma 3. Deﬁne φ(x,y ) =d(yHb(x/y)−Hb(x)) +c wherec is any constant and let ˆβ be the
function on (0, 1) deﬁned by pairs of points (α,β−α) such that φ(α,β ) = 0 and 0<α<β < 1.
The function ˆβ is continuously diﬀerentiable on (0, 1) and has a unique local maximum.
Proof. Deﬁne a change of variablesz =x−y to getφ(x,z ) =d(x+z)Hb(x/(x+z))−Hb(x)) +c
so that ˆβ is the function deﬁned implicitly by pairs of points satisfyingφ(α, ˆβ) = 0. The function
18

φ(x,z ) is continuously diﬀerentiable in both variables on the set (0 , 1)× (0, 1), i.e. its partial
derivatesφz = ∂φ
∂z and φx = ∂φ
∂x are each continuous on (0, 1)× (0, 1). By the Implicit Function
Theorem, ˆβ : (0, 1)→ R is continuously diﬀerentiable with derivative −φx/φz deﬁned in an
open interval around every point α where φz ⁄= 0. Expanding the binary entropy function
Hb(x) =−x log2(x)− (1−x) log2(1−x) simpliﬁes the inner expression:
1
d(φ(x,z )−c) = (z +x)Hb(x/(x +z))−Hb(x)
=−x log2(x/(z +x))−z log2(z/(x +z)) +x log2(x)− (1−x) log2(1−x)
= (x +z) log2(x +z)−z log2(z)− (1−x) log2(1−x)
The partial derivatives are:
φx = d
ln(2)((x +z)/(x +z) + ln(x +z)− (1−α)/(1−α)− ln(1−α) =d log2
(x +z
1−α
)
φz = d
ln(2)((x +z)(x +z) + ln(x +z)−z/z− ln(z) =d log2
(x +z
z
)
φz(α, ˆβ(α)) is always positive because ( x +z)/z > 1 for x,z ∈ (0, 1). On the other hand,
φx(α, ˆβ(α) < 0 if and only if α + ˆβ(α) > 1−α. Setting ˆβ(α) = β−α this is the case when
β +α >1. ˆβ(α) is increasing when α +β <1 and decreasing when α +β >1. It has a local
maximum where α +β = 1. Since β = ˆβ(α)−α is a monotonically non-decreasing function of
α it follows that if α +β <1 then α′ +β′ < 1 at every point α′ < α. Likewise, if α +β >1
then α′ +β′ > 1 at every point α′ > α. We therefore conclude that ˆβ(α) is initially increasing
and achieves a unique local maximum on (0 , 1).
Corollary 2. With overwhelming probability in n, Chung’s construction (with d = 8 ) is an
8-regular bipartite graph on n sinks and n sources each indexed in [n] such that for all α∈
(0.10, 0.80) every αn sinks are connected to at least 0.12n sources with distinct indices.
Proof. The function ˆβ(α) from Lemma 3 the implicit function ˆβc deﬁned by pairs of points
(α,β−α) satisfying φc(α,β ) = d(βHb(α/β)−Hb(α)) +c = 0 is a smooth and has a unique
maximum in any intervalL⊆ (0, 1). Furthermore, if the points α andβ satisfyHb(α)+Hb(β)<
c≤ 2 then ˆβ(α) is a lower bound on the “boundary” of sinks of size αn in Chung’s construction
with overwhelming probability (Lemma 1). We will split the interval (0.10, 0.80) into subintervals
(0.10, 0.33] and [0.33, 0.80) and analyze them seperately.
For allα∈ [0.33, 0.80) the formula in Lemma 1 shows that the expansion for each α is non-
decreasing and is at least 0.80 (see Figure 2.3). Thus we can set c = 1.64>H b(0.33) +Hb(0.80)
and examine the lower bound ˆβc. It has a unique local maximum in (0 .33, 0.80) therefore
ˆβc≥ min( ˆβc(0.33), ˆβc(0.80))≥ 0.12. (Observe that φc(0.33, 0.45) < 0 and φc(0.80, 0.92) < 0
with d = 8.)
Forα∈ (0.10, 0.33] we lazily set c = 2. The implicit function ˆβ2 has a unique local max in
(0.10, 0.33], so ˆβ2≥min( ˆβ2(0.33), ˆβ2(0.10))> 0.12.
19

Size (α) 0.01 0.10 0.20 0.30 0.40 0.45 0.50 0.55 0.60 0.65 0.70 0.75 0.80
Expansion (β) 0.04 0.33 0.53 0.65 0.75 0.78 0.81 0.84 0.88 0.89 0.91 0.93 0.94
F actor(β/α) 4 3.3 2.65 2.1 1.8 1.73 1.62 1.53 1.47 1.37 1.3 1.24 1.17
Figure 2.2: A table of the maximum expansion ( β) satisfying the condition from Lemma 1 for Chung’s con-
struction with ﬁxed degree d = 8 over a range of subset sizes ( α).
Figure 2.3: The graph on the left plots the lower bound from Lemma 1 on the expansion β as a function of the
subset sizeα (in fractions of the sources/sinks) for Chung’s construction with ﬁxed d = 8. The graph on the right
plots the corresponding lower bound on β−α, which is the analog of the subgraph boundary in non-bipartite
expanders. Speciﬁcally, this is a lower bound on the fraction of sinks connected to an α fraction of sources that
have distinct index labels from the sources.
Expansion vs degree We can also characterize the expansion of subsets of the sinks more
generally as a function of the graph’s degree. We can show that for any d≥ 4 Chung’s construc-
tion yields ad-regular graph such that every subset of sinks of sizeαn is at least (d/3)-expanding
for every α< 3
2d.
Lemma 4. For any d≥ 4, Chung’s construction yields a d-regular bipartite graph that is an
(n,α, (d/3)α) bipartite expander for every α≤ 3
2d with probability 1− negl(nHb(α)).
Proof. First set α = 3/(2d) and β = 1/2. By Lemma 1, we obtain a graph G that is an
(n,α,β ) expander with probability 1 − negl(nHb(α)) as long as d− d
2Hb( 3
d)−Hb( 3
2d)− 1 > 0.
Deﬁneg(x) = 1/x− 1
2xHb(3x)−Hb(3x/2)− 1 so that the condition is equivalent to g(1/d)> 0.
Hb(x) is real and continuous on (0 , 1). Its derivative is H′
b(x) = log 2(1−x)− log2(x) which is
positive on (0, 1/2). Diﬀerentiating g(x) with respect to x on (0, 1/3) gives g′(x) = −1/x2−
3
2xH′
b(3x)+ 1
2x2Hb(3x)− 3
2H′
b( 3x
2 ). Observe that on (0, 1/3) bothH′
b(3x)> 0 and 1
2Hb(3x)−1< 0,
therefore g′(x)< 0. This means that g(1/d) is increasing as d increases for d> 3. Furthermore
limd→3g(1/d) = 3−Hb(1/2)− 1 = 1> 0.
Finally, it follows as a special case of Lemma 2 that if G is a d-regular (n, 3
2d, 1
2) bipartite
expander for some ﬁxedd then it is an (n,α, (d/3)α) bipartite expander for everyα≤ 3
2d. Setting
ϵ = 1/3, we see that 3
2d < 2−1/d
d−2 = 1/ϵ−1/d−1
d−2 . The inequality holds because 4 d− 2> 3d− 6 for
all d> 0.
20

Ramanujan graphs The explicit bipartite expander construction of Lubotzky, Phillips, and
Sarnak [4] achieves similar expansion to Chung’s construction for similarly good parameters.
It is more complicated to implement as it involves generating a certain Cayley graph of the
group PGL (2, Fq), the 2-dimensional projective general linear group on Fq. This construction
yields a bipartite exapnder of degree ( p + 1) on q(q2− 1) vertices for any primes p,q such that
p,q ≡ 1 mod 4 and p is a quadratic non-residue modulo q. The resulting graph is called a
Ramanujan graph because it is an optimal spectral expander, meaning the absolute value of all
the non-trivial eigenvalues of its adjacency matrix (i.e. except the eigenvalue - d) are bounded
by 2
√
d− 1. Other explicit Ramanujan graphs are known, for instance the isogeny graph of
supersingular elliptic curves is also Ramanujan [34]. Due to a theorem of Tanner [38] relating
spectral and vertex expansion, any d-regular bipartite Ramanujan graph on n vertices is an
(n,α, d
4(1−α)+αd) bipartite expander for all α < 1. In particular, for d≥ 4 every fraction of
α< 1/d sinks is at least d/4-expanding.
Lemma 5 (Tanner [38]). For any d≥ 4 and n∈ N a d-regular bipartite Ramanujan graph on
n vertices is an (n,α, (d/4)α) bipartite expander for every α< 1/d.
3 Stacked DRG Proof of Space
In this section we show that stacking DRGs with bipartite expander edges between layers yields
an arbitrarily tight proof of space with the number of layers increasing as O(log2(1/ϵ)) where ϵ
is the desired space gap. Moreover, the proof size is also O(log2(1/ϵ)), which is asymptotically
optimal. Our proofs attempt a tight analysis as well, e.g. showing that just 10 layers achieve a
PoS with a 1% space gap, degree 8 +d graphs where d is the degree of the DRG, and relies only
on a DRG that retains depth in 80% subgraphs.
3.1 Review of the Stacked-Expander PoS
In this section we review the PoS construction by Ren and Devadas [35] based on stacked
bipartite expander graphs as it is a building block towards our Layered-DRG construction. Their
construction uses a layered graph where each layer is a directed line onn nodes and the directed
edges of a bipartite expander graph are placed between layers. This was shown to be an (ϵγn, (1−
2ϵ)γn)-sound PoS for parameters ϵ< 1/2 and γ <1.3 (Achieving practical proof sizes actually
requires γ to be rather small as otherwise the required degree of the expander graphs blows
up, e.g. γ > 0.6 requires at least degree 40 graphs hence practically ϵ < 1/3). The PoS
is not parallel sound (for meaningful s,t ) as a prover running in O(λ) parallel time can pass
veriﬁcation using very little space. We will show that by replacing each line graph with a depth
robust graph this results in a much tighter proof of space, as well as security against parallelism.
Interestingly, the security against parallel attacks seems intimately connected to why the Ren-
Devadas construction fails to be tight whereas ours succeeds. Furthermore, the Ren-Devadas
security is only proven against an adversary who implements a pebbling attack and is not yet
known to be secure more generally against graph labeling in the random oracle model. As our
3Under a slightly diﬀerent deﬁnition of a PoS that assumes the prover uses less than (1−ϵ)γn additional space
during execution, Ren and Devadas showed that the stacked-expander construction is an ( ϵγn, 2λ)-sound PoS
where λ is a security parameter determining the number of layers in their construction.
21

construction is secure against parallel pebbling attacks it is also secure in the random oracle
model.
The graph GSE The stacked-expander PoS uses the same underlying graph as the Balloon
Hash memory hard function [22]. The graph GSE consists of𝓁 =O(λ) layersV1,...,V 𝓁 consisting
each ofn vertices indexed in each level by the integers [n], and where λ is a security parameter.
First directed edges are placed from each kth vertex to the k + 1st vertex in each level, i.e.
forming a directed line. Next directed edges are placed from Vi−1 to Vi according to the edges
of an (n,α,β ) bipartite expander on (Vi−1,Vi). Finally a “localization” operation is applied so
that each kth vertex uk in Vi−1 is connected to the kth vertex vk in Vi and any directed edge
from the kth vertex of Vi−1 to some jth vertex of Vi where j > kis replaced with a directed
edge from the kth vertex of Vi to the jth vertex of Vi.GSE can be pebbled in n𝓁 steps using a
total of n pebbles.
Stacked-expander PoS The PoS follows the generic PoS based on graph labeling. We remark
only on several nuances. Due to the topology of GSE after localization, the prover only needs
to use a buﬀer of size n and deletes the labels of Vi−1 as it derives the labels of Vi. After
completing the labels Ci in the ith level it computes a vector commitment (e.g. Merkle) to the
labels in Ci denoted comi. Once it has derived the labels C𝓁 of the ﬁnal level V𝓁 it computes
com = Hid(com1||···|| com𝓁) and uses Hid(com||j) to derive λ non-interactive challenges for
eachjth level.4
Letγ =β−2α for constantsβ,α ∈ (0, 1) whereβ >2α. For the remainder of the analysis we
assume the bipartite expander graph used in the stack-expander PoS construction is an (n,α,β )
expander.
Theorem 2 (RD [35]). Let𝓁 be the number of layers in GSE andα,β the expansion parameters.
Letγ =β− 2α. Every αn subset of initially unpebbled sinks in the layer V𝓁 cannot be pebbled in
less than 2𝓁αn moves from any initial conﬁguration of γn and using at most γn pebbles overall.
Corollary 3 (RD [35]). For everyϵ< 1/2 and 0<δ <ϵγ arbitrarily small, the stacked-expander
PoS construction is an ((ϵγ−δ)nm, (1− 2ϵ)γn)-sound PoS (against a pebbling adversary) with
probability 1− negl(δλ).
Space-hardness gap 1/2 The stacked-expander PoS leaves at least a 1
2γ gap between the
honest prover’s storage and the adversary’s storage. In fact, the space gap itself is actually what
the analysis exploits in order to argue security: due to the fact that the adversary will need
to reﬁll a large fraction of its deleted space in order to pass the veriﬁer’s challenges it will end
up performing a signiﬁcant amount of computation as well to reﬁll that space. Furthermore,
4This is a slight deviation from the protocol as described by Ren and Devadas, which sampled every label
challenge randomly over all vertices in GSE rather than separately within each layer. The end result is the same
because for security they set their parameters to ensure that if at least ϵn labels in any level are incorrect (which
comprise an ϵ/𝓁 fraction of all the vertices) then the challenges will sample one of these incorrect labels with
overwhelming probability. This requires sampling a factor 𝓁 more labels overall than the number of labels one
would sample from a given level to achieve the same probability of detection within that speciﬁc layer, as for any
λ it holds that (1 − ϵ
𝓁)𝓁λ≈ e−λ/ϵ≈ (1−ϵ)λ. Since their protocol also require 𝓁 = O(λ) the number of queries
is actually O(λ2). Sampling λ challenges within each layer, as we do, involves the same number of queries with
even a slightly tighter guarantee of the desired property within each level.
22

Corollary 3 proves that nodes on the last level are hard to pebble individually by leveraging
the fact that the adversary is storing less than half the pebbles required to pebble a subset of
nodes (as required by Theorem 2) and derives a contradiction by considering a lazy adversarial
strategy that keeps these pebbles ﬁxed on the initial set and still uses less space than needed.
This analysis would be void if the adversary were storing more than half the required online
pebbles.
It seems implicitly that the reason this bound on additional online space used is so fun-
damental to the analysis is that the protocol is not secure against parallel attacks. If instead
pebbling any αn sinks was secure against parallel attacks (with no bound on the number of
online pebbles used in parallel) then we immediately get that less than αn sinks can be pebbled
eﬃciently individually as otherwise these could all be pebbled in parallel starting from the same
initial conﬁguration.
O(λ2) proof size The proof size in the stacked-expander PoS is quite large as it requires λ
challenges in each of the λ levels for total complexity O(λ2). The number of levels needs to be
λ as we are only able to prove that the complexity of pebbling a single node out of αn sinks is
at least 1/(αn) the complexity of pebbling all αn, hence the complexity of pebbling αn nodes
needs to be on the order of 2 λαn, i.e. much greater than O(n). If the complexity were only
O(n) the adversary might be able to pebble each challenge in less that 1 /α moves. Again, this
is connected to the lack of security against parallel attacks. If the protocol were secure against
parallel attacks then individual nodes inherit the pebbling complexity of αn nodes without a
factor αn loss.
3.2 A tight PoS from stacked DRGs
The new result that we will next show is that simply replacing each of the line graphs Vi in
the stacked-expander PoS construction with a depth robust graph results in an arbitrarily tight
PoS. Speciﬁcally, only O(log 1/ϵ) layers are needed to achieve a ((1 −ϵ)n, Ω(n))-parallel-sound
PoS. We demand only very basic properties from the DRG, e.g. that any subgraph on 80% of
the nodes contains a long path of Ω( n) length.
Construction ofGSDR[𝓁] The graph GSDR[𝓁] will be exactly likeGSE only each of the𝓁 layers
V1,...,V 𝓁 contains a copy of an ( n, 0.80n,βn )-depth-robust graph for some constant β. For
concreteness, we deﬁne the directed edges between the layers using the degree 8 Chung random
bipartite graph construction.
For simplicity we will ﬁrst analyze the construction without applying localization to the
expander edges between layers. Even without localization this is already a valid PoS, only the
initialization requires a buﬀer of size 2 n rather than n. The PoS is still “tight” with respect to
the persistent space storage.
Vector commitment storage If the vector commitment storage overhead required for the
PoS is signiﬁcant then this somewhat defeats the point of a tight PoS. Luckily this is not the
case. Most vector commitment protocols, including the standard Merkle tree, oﬀer smooth
time/space tradeoﬀs. With a Merkle tree the honest prover can delete the hashes on nodes on
the ﬁrst k levels of the tree to save a factor 2 k space and re-derive all hashes along a Merkle
path by reading at most 2k nodes and computing at most 2k hashes. If k = 7 this is less than a
23

1% overhead in space, and requires at most 128 additional hashes and reads. Furthermore, as
remarked in [33] these 2k reads are sequential memory reads, which in practice are inexpensive
compared to the random reads for challenge labels.
Proof size We show that𝓁 =O(log( 1
3(ϵ−2δ))) suﬃces to achieve negl(λ) soundness against any
prover running in parallel time less than βn rounds of queries where Chal samples λ/δ nodes
in each layer. This would result in a proof size of O((1/ϵ) log(1/ϵ)), which is already a major
improvement on any PoS involving a graph of degree O(1/ϵ) (recall that the only previously
known tight PoS construction relied on very special DRGs whose degree must scale with 1 /ϵ,
which results in a total proof size of O(1/ϵ2)). However, we are able to improve the result
even further and show that only O(1/δ) challenge queries are required overall, achieving proof
complexity O(1/ϵ). This is the optimal proof complexity for the generic pebbling-based PoS
with at most an ϵ space gap. If the prover claims to be storing n pebbles and the proof queries
less than 1/ϵ then a random deletion of an ϵ fraction of these pebbles evades detection with
probability at least (1−ϵ)1/ϵ≈ 1/e. The same applies if a random ϵ fraction of the pebbles the
prover claims to be storing are red (i.e. errors).
Analysis outline We prove the hardness of the game Red-Black-PebblesA(GSDR[𝓁],V𝓁, Chal)
where Chal samples λi uniform challenges over Vi. We ﬁrst show that it suﬃces to consider the
parallel complexity of pebbling the set U𝓁⊆ V𝓁 of all unpebbled nodes on V𝓁 from an initial
conﬁguration of γn black pebbles overall and δin red pebbles in each layer where δ𝓁<ϵ/ 2. As a
shorthand notation, we will say thatGSDR[𝓁] is (γ,⃗δ,t,µ )-hard ift rounds are required to pebble
a µ fraction of V𝓁. When µ = 1 this is equivalent to pebbling all of U𝓁, the set of nodes with
missing pebbles in the initial conﬁguration (since there is no constraint on number of pebbles
used). This very similar to standard parallel pebbling complexity in black pebbling games as
we deﬁned earlier, however, it takes into account the restriction to δi red pebbles on each layer
that it counts separately 5 from black pebbles.
In Claim 4 we show that if GSDR[𝓁− 1] is (1−ϵ + 2δ𝓁−1,⃗δ,t, 1)-hard thenGSDR[𝓁] is (1−
ϵ,⃗δ∗,t, 1−ϵ/2)-hard where ⃗δ∗ is equal to ⃗δ on all common indices and δ𝓁 = δ𝓁−1. This in
turn implies that with probability at least 1 −ϵ/2 a randomly sampled challenge node from V𝓁
requires more thant rounds to pebble. Together with the random challenges boundingδi we show
(Claim 2) that the labeling PoS onGSDR is (γn,t,max{p∗,µκ})-sound wherep∗ =maxi(1−δi)λi.
Next we look at the complexity of pebbling all of V𝓁. We show in Claim 6 that when the
adversary uses at most γ <1−ϵ black pebbles and δ red pebbles in each layer then pebbling all
the unpebbled nodes in layer V𝓁 (for𝓁 dependent on ϵ andδ) requires pebbling 0.80n unpebbled
nodes (including both red and black pebbles) in some layer Vi. Since the layer Vi contains a
(n, 0.80,βn )-depth-robust graph, this takes at least βn rounds. We then generalize this analysis
(Claim 7) to apply when δi is allowed to increase from level 𝓁 to 1 by a multiplicative factor
such that∑
iδi =O(δ𝓁).
Theorem 3 ties everything together, taking into account the constraints of each claim to
derive the PoS soundness of the labeling PoS on GSDR[𝓁].
5In prior uses of the red-black pebbling game (e.g. to analyze the Ren and Devadas or Dziembowski et. al.
proofs of space) it suﬃced to consider parallel black pebbling complexity as red pebbles were treated just like
extra free black pebbles. However, that is not allowed here because the construction places diﬀerent constraints
on red vs black pebbles that are allowed on each level by issuing separate challenge queries for each level.
24

Theorem 3. The labeling PoS on GSDR[𝓁] with Chal sampling λi challenges in each level Vi
and κ online challenges in V𝓁 is ((1−ϵ−δ)n,βn− 1,e−λ)-sound with κ = 2λ/ϵ if either of the
following conditions are met for ϵ≤ 0.24:
(a) 𝓁 =max(8, log2( 1
3(ϵ−2δ)) + 4) and each λi =λ/δ and δ <min(0.01,ϵ/ 3)
(b) 𝓁 = max(14, log2( 1
3(ϵ−3δ)) + 5) and each λi = λ/δi where δ𝓁 = δ < min(0.01,ϵ/ 2) and
δi =min(0.05, 2
3δi−1)
Proof. For anyGSDR[𝓁], if the set of unpebbled nodes inV𝓁 are connected via unpebbled paths to
at least 0.80n unpebbled nodes (including red and black) in some prior levelVi, then pebbling all
ofV𝓁 requires pebbling all these 0.80n unpebbled nodes, which requires βn−1 rounds due to the
fact thatVi is (n, 0.80n,βn ) depth robust. Claim 7 thus implies thatGSDR[𝓁] is (1−ϵ,⃗δ,βn−1, 1)-
hard for ⃗δ such that δ𝓁 =δ <ϵ/3 and δi =min(0.05, 2
3δi−1) for 𝓁 =max(13, log2( 1
3(ϵ−3δ)) + 4).
Claim 7 gives a diﬀerent tradeoﬀ between 𝓁 and⃗δ, and shows that this hardness holds for ⃗δ and
𝓁 such that δi =δ <ϵ/2 for all i and 𝓁 =max(7, log2( 1
3(ϵ−2δ) + 3)).
Assuming ϵ≤ 0.24, Claim 4 implies that GSDR[𝓁 + 1] is (1−ϵ−δ,⃗δ,βn − 1, 1−ϵ/2)-hard
extending ⃗δ so that δ𝓁+1 = δ𝓁 = δ. Finally, by Claim 2, the labeling PoS on GSDR[𝓁 + 1] with
challenge setV𝓁 and Chal samplingλi in each levelVi is ((1−ϵ−δ)n,βn−1,max{p∗, (1−ϵ/2)κ})-
sound wherep∗ =maxi(1−δi)λi. Setting λi =λ/δi andκ = 2λ/ϵ, the PoS is ((1−ϵ−δ)n,βn−
1,e−λ)-sound.
Notation 1 (Common analysis notations) . Let Ui denote the entire index set of nodes that
are unpebbled in Vi and Pi the set that are pebbled. The total number of pebbles placed in the
initial conﬁguration isγn. Each level initially has ρin black pebbles and δin red pebbles. Finally,
γin =∑
j<iρi is the number of black pebbles placed before level i.
Claim 2. IfGSDR[𝓁] is (γ,⃗δ,t,µ )-hard then the labeling PoS on GSDR[𝓁] is (γn,t,max{p∗,µκ})-
sound where p∗ =maxi(1−δi)λi.
Proof. Fixγ = 1−ϵ andδi for eachi. The λi challenges during Initialization in each level ensure
thatA wins with at most probability (1−δi)λi if it places more than δi red pebbles on Vi. IfA
has exceeded the δi bound in more than one level this only increases its probability of failure.
Thus, in case 1 (A places more than δi red pebbles on some level i),A’s success probability is
bounded by maximum value of (1−δi)λi over alli. In case 2 (A places fewer thanδi on eachith
level), the fact that GSDR[𝓁] is (γ,⃗δ,t,µ )-hard implies at most a µ fraction of the nodes on V𝓁
can individually be pebbled from the starting conﬁguration int rounds (recall Fact 1), henceA’s
success probability of answering κ independent challenges is µκ. Therefore, the overall success
probability is the maximum of these two cases.
The next claim is a very simple observation that the hardness of pebbling all the unpebbled
nodes in V𝓁 with s initial pebbles overall can be equivalently stated as the hardness of peb-
bling any set of u unpebbled nodes on V𝓁 with s−u initial pebbles placed on lower levels (i.e.
V1,..,V 𝓁−1).
25

Claim 3 (trivial).GSDR[𝓁] is (γ,⃗δ,t, 1)-hard if and only if given any initial conﬁguration P0
of γ𝓁n black pebbles placed on layers V1,...,V 𝓁−1 (i.e. excluding V𝓁), at most δin red pebbles in
each layer, and any set U⊆ V𝓁 of αn unpebbled nodes in V𝓁 such that α−γ𝓁≥ 1−γ−δ, no
adversary can pebble U in t or fewer rounds.
Proof. Any placement of δin red pebbles on each level and γn black pebbles overall with γ𝓁
pebbles on V1,...,V 𝓁−1 has ρ𝓁n = (γ−γ𝓁)n black pebbles on V𝓁 and exactly (1 −ρ𝓁−δ𝓁)n
unpebbled nodes in V𝓁 (assuming without loss of generality that red and black pebbles never
share the same node). If for any γ𝓁 pebbles placed on V1,...,V 𝓁−1 and any setU of (1−ρ𝓁−δ𝓁)n
of unpebbled nodes in V𝓁 no adversary can pebble U int or fewer rounds, then no adversary can
pebble the set of unpebbled nodes in V𝓁 (i.e. because U is precisely this set).
Conversely, suppose thatGSDR[𝓁] is (γ,⃗δ,t, 1)-hard, i.e. pebbling the entire set of unpebbled
nodes in V𝓁 requirest rounds if at most γn black pebbles are placed overall with at most δin red
pebbles in each level. Then for any placement of γ𝓁 pebbles on V1,...,V 𝓁−1 with at most δin red
in each level, and for any U⊆V𝓁 of sizeu≥ (1−ρ𝓁−δ𝓁)n, the remaining nodes in V𝓁\U can be
pebbled with just (γ−γ𝓁 +δ𝓁)n pebbles. This means there exists a pebbling of the entire graph
with γn pebbles overall and the same conﬁguration on the ﬁrst 𝓁− 1 levels that leaves only the
set U unpebbled in V𝓁. Thus, by hypothesis, this unpebbled set U requires more than t rounds
to pebble. Any other initial pebbling conﬁguration that has fewer pebbles on V𝓁\U would only
make it harder to pebble U.
Claim 4. For any ϵ≤ 0.24, if GSDR[𝓁− 1] is (1−ϵ +δ𝓁−1,⃗δ,t− 1, 1)-hard then GSDR[𝓁] is
(1−ϵ,⃗δ∗,min (βn− 1,t ), 1−ϵ/2)-hard where ⃗δ∗ is identical to ⃗ von all common indices and
δ𝓁 =δ𝓁−1≤ϵ/2.
Proof. Refer to Notations 1. Consider the graph GSDR[𝓁] with γ = 1−ϵ black initially placed
pebbled. Let δ =δ𝓁 =δ𝓁−1≤ϵ/2. Let α𝓁n denote the size of U𝓁, i.e. the number of unpebbled
nodes in V𝓁. Every subset of V𝓁 of size (1−ϵ/2)n contains at least α∗n = (α𝓁−ϵ/2)n unpeb-
bled nodes (otherwise there would be fewer than α𝓁n unpebbled nodes as there are only an ϵ/2
fraction remaining outside the selected set). If α∗≥ 0.80n we are done because V𝓁 is a copy
of a (n, 0.80n,βn )-depth robust graph and so pebbling all of α∗ requires at least βn rounds to
pebble a path of length βn.
Caseα∗< 1/3: Theα∗ unpebbled nodes have dependencies on at least a 2α∗≥ 2α𝓁−ϵ frac-
tion of nodes in V𝓁−1 (Corollary 1). Of these at least α′n = (2α𝓁−ρ𝓁−1−ϵ−δ)n are unpebbled,
and there areγ𝓁−1 =γ−ρ𝓁−1−ρ𝓁 pebbles placed on all prior levels. Substituting ρ𝓁 = 1−α𝓁−δ
andγ = 1−ϵ shows thatα′−γ𝓁−1 = 2α𝓁−γ +ρ𝓁−ϵ−δ =α𝓁 + 1−γ−ϵ− 2δ =α𝓁− 2δ. Since
α𝓁≥ 1−γ−δ, settingγ′ =δ+γ satisﬁes the relationα′−γ𝓁−1≥α𝓁−2δ≥ 1−γ−3δ = 1−γ′−δ.
Noting that γ′ = 1−ϵ +δ, by the hypothesis that GSDR[𝓁− 1] is (1−ϵ +δ𝓁−1,⃗δ,t− 1, 1)-hard
along with the bijection in Claim B this shows that the α′ pebbles in V𝓁−1 cannot be pebbled
in t− 1 rounds. Thus, the α∗ unpebbled nodes in V𝓁 cannot be pebbled in t rounds.
Case α∗≥ 1/3: In this case α∗∈ (0.33, 0.80). It is connected to β∗ nodes in V𝓁−1. Among
these at least α′≥ β∗−ρ𝓁−1−δ of these are unpebbled. Since γ𝓁−1 = γ−ρ𝓁−ρ𝓁−1 we get
α′−γ𝓁−1≥ β∗−γ +ρ𝓁−δ. Furthermore, ρ𝓁 = 1−α𝓁−δ≥ 1−α∗−ϵ/2−δ so α′−γ𝓁−1≥
β∗−γ + 1−α∗−ϵ/2− 2δ =β∗−α∗ +ϵ/2− 2δ≥ 0.12 +ϵ/2− 2δ (from Corollary 2 we know that
26

β∗−α∗≥ 0.12). As in the previous case, the hypothesis thatGSDR[𝓁−1] is (1−ϵ+δ𝓁−1,⃗δ,t−1, 1)-
hard and Claim B imply that the α′ pebbles cannot be pebbled in t− 1 rounds as long as
0.12 +ϵ/2− 2δ≥ϵ− 2δ, which is true for ϵ≤ 0.24.
Claim 5. IfGSDR initially has at most γn black pebbles for γ≤ 1−ϵ and at most δ <ϵ/2 red
pebbles in each layer then for 𝓁 = log2( 1
3(ϵ−2δ)) the unpebbled nodes in V𝓁 have unpebbled paths
from at least n/3 unpebbled nodes in some layer Vi.
Proof. Refer to Notations 1. Let αin denote the number of unpebbled dependencies of U𝓁 inVi,
i.e. the number of nodes in Ui that have unpebbled paths to U𝓁. Suppose that αi is bounded by
1/3 for all levels up to 𝓁−k, i.e. α𝓁< 1/3,...,α 𝓁−k < 1/3. We will prove the following bound:
α𝓁−k≥ 2k(α𝓁−γ𝓁/2−δ)≥ 2k−1(α𝓁 +ϵ− 3δ)≥ 2k(ϵ− 2δ) (3.1)
Fork = log2( 1
3(ϵ−2δ)) this implies α𝓁−k≥ 1/3, which contradicts α𝓁−k < 1/3. Therefore, it
follows that αi≥ 1/3 at some index i>𝓁 − log2( 1
3(ϵ−2δ)). We conclude that if 𝓁≥ log2( 1
3(ϵ−2δ))
then there is some level Vi with at least n/3 unpebbled nodes that have unpebbled dependency
paths to the set X𝓁 of unpebbled nodes in V𝓁.
Let j =𝓁−i. From Corollary 1, as long as αj≤ 1/3 the set Xj is connected to at least 2αj
nodes in Vj−1, and at most (ρj−1 +δ)n of these are pebbled. Therefore, αj−1≥ 2αj−ρj−1−δ.
Now we show by induction that α𝓁−k≥ 2kα𝓁− 2k−1ρ𝓁−1− (2k− 1)δ. The base case k = 0 is
trivial. Assuming this holds for k:
α𝓁−k−1≥ 2α𝓁−k−ρ𝓁−k−1−δ≥ 2(2kα𝓁− 2k−1ρ𝓁−1− (2k− 1)δ)−ρ𝓁−k−1−δ
≥ 2k+1α𝓁− 2kρ𝓁−1− (2k+1− 1)δ
The last inequality used the fact that ∑k
i=1ρ𝓁−i≤γ𝓁 and therefore∑k
i=1 2k−iρ𝓁−i is maximized
by setting ρ𝓁−1 =γ𝓁 and ρ𝓁−i = 0 for all i> 1.
From the identitiesγ𝓁 =γ−ρ𝓁 andα𝓁 = 1−ρ𝓁−δ we deriveγ𝓁 =γ +α𝓁− 1 +δ≤α𝓁 +δ−ϵ.
Finally, inserting this into the bound above and using the fact that α𝓁≥ϵ−δ gives:
α𝓁−k≥ 2k−1(2α𝓁−γ𝓁− 2δ)≥ 2k−1(α𝓁 +ϵ− 3δ)≥ 2k(ϵ− 2δ)
We could stop here as we have already shown unpebbled dependency paths from the un-
pebbled sinks in V𝓁 to a 1 /3 fraction of nodes in some level for 𝓁 = O(log(1/(ϵ− 2δ)) and
the remainder of our PoS analysis could rely on a graph that is ( n, 0.33n, Ω(n))-depth-robust.
However, we can tighten the analysis further so that we only need to assume the graph is
(n, 0.80, Ω(n))-depth robust.
Claim 6. IfGSDR initially has at most γn black pebbles for γ≤ 1−ϵ and at most δ < ϵ/2
red pebbles in each layer then for 𝓁 = max( 0.68−ϵ+δ
0.12−δ , log2( 1
3(ϵ−2δ)) + 3) the unpebbled nodes in
V𝓁 have unpebbled paths to at least 0.80n unpebbled nodes in some layer Vi. In particular,
𝓁 =max(7, log2( 1
3(ϵ−2δ)) + 3) when δ≤ 0.01.
27

Proof. In Claim 5 we showed that for𝓁≥ log2( 2
3(α𝓁+ϵ−3δ)) there exists an indexi whereαi≥ 1/3
andα𝓁 +ϵ− 3δ≥ 2ϵ− 4δ (Equation 3.1). Picking up from here, we consider what happens once
αi≥ 1/3. We break the analysis into two cases: in the ﬁrst case α𝓁 < 1/3 and in the second
case α𝓁≥ 1/3.
In both cases we will use a diﬀerent bound on αi−k because once αi > 1/3 the unpebbled
sets may not be 2-expanding. Deﬁne the function β(α) to be the minimum bipartite expansion
of a set of fractional size α, i.e. every set of αn nodes is connected to at least β(α)n nodes in
the previous level. Let ˆβ(α) = β(α)−α. Using the relation αi−1≥β(αi)−ρi−1−δ we derive
that αi−2≥ ˆβ(αi−1) +β(αi)−ρi−1−ρi−2− 2δ and more generally, since ∑k
j=1ρi−j≤γi:
αi−k≥
k−1∑
j=1
ˆβ(αi−j) +β(αi)−kδ−
k∑
j=1
ρi−j≥ (k− 1)(minj<k ˆβ(αi−j)−δ) +β(αi)−γi−δ
The ﬁnal ingredient is the bound γi≤ αi−ϵ +δ for all i. To see this, ﬁrst observe that
α𝓁−γ𝓁 = 1−ρ𝓁−δ− (γ−ρ𝓁) = ϵ−δ. If αi−γi≥ ϵ−δ and ϵ >2δ, then 0.80 > αi > δ,
and so the αin dependencies are connected to β(αi)n> (αi +δ)n nodes in level Vi−1. Therefore
αi−1≥αi−ρi−1 =αi− (γi−γi−1). In words, decreasing the number of dependencies requires
using black pebbles 1-to-1, so αi−1−γi−1≥αi−γi.
αi−k≥ (k− 1)(minj<k ˆβ(αi−j)−δ) + ˆβ(αi) +ϵ− 2δ (3.2)
By Corollary 2 to Lemma 3, ˆβ(α)≥ 0.12 for α∈ (0.10, 0.80).
Case α𝓁≥ 1/3: First we claim that α𝓁−i≥ 0.12 for all i. If αi≥ 0.12 then as shown above
αi−1≥ ˆβ(αi) +ϵ− 2δ≥ 0.12 because ˆβ(α)≥ 0.12 for all α∈ (0.10, 0.80) and ϵ> 2δ. Our claim
thus follows by induction. Therefore, for all j ≤ k we derive that minj≤k( ˆβ(α𝓁−j))≥ 0.12.
Equation 3.2 then shows that α𝓁−k−1 ≥ k(0.12− δ) + 0.12 + ϵ− δ, or α𝓁−k−1 ≥ 0.80 at
k≥ (0.68−ϵ +δ)/(0.12−δ) (e.g. k = 7 when δ≤ 0.01).
Case α𝓁 < 1/3: From Equation 3.1, αi≥ 1/3 at some index i≥𝓁−k for k = log2( 2
3(α𝓁+ϵ−3δ)).
At this pointαi≥ 1/3 andγi<γ 𝓁≤α𝓁−ϵ+δ. Combining this with Equation 3.2, we can apply
the same analysis as in the previous case to ﬁrst show by induction that αi−k′≥ 0.12 for all k′
and then more generally: αi−k′≥ (k′− 1)(0.12−δ) +β(αi)−α𝓁 +ϵ− 2δ≥k′(0.12−δ) + 0.68−
α𝓁 +ϵ− 2δ. We used the fact that β(αi)≥ β(0.33)≥ 0.68. Therefore, αi−k′−1≥ 0.80 when
k′≥ (0.80− 0.68 +α𝓁)/(0.12−δ). This shows that the total number of levels where αi < 0.80
is at most:
𝓁 =k +k′ + 1≤ 1 + log2
( 2
3(α𝓁 +ϵ− 3δ)
)
+ 0.12 +α𝓁
0.12−δ
The derivative of this expression with respect toα𝓁 is 1
0.12−δ− 1
ln(2)(α𝓁+ϵ−3δ), which is initially
decreasing when ln(2)(α𝓁 +ϵ− 3δ)< 0.12−δ and then increasing for larger α𝓁. Therefore, the
maxima are on the endpoints of the interval α𝓁∈ (ϵ−δ, 0.33). We already considered the case
α𝓁 = 0.33. When α𝓁 =ϵ−δ then the number of levels is at most 1 − log2(3(ϵ− 2δ)) + 0.12
0.12−δ.
In conclusion, the total number of levels before αi≥ 0.80 is at most:
𝓁≤max
(
(0.68−ϵ +δ)/(0.12−δ), 1− log2
(
3(ϵ− 2δ)
)
+ 1/(1−δ/12)
)
In particular, when δ≤ 0.01 this becomes max(7,− log2(3(ϵ− 2δ)) + 3).
28

Relaxing δ Claim 6 improved on Claim 5 to show unpebbled dependency paths to 80% of the
subgraph in some layer. The ﬁnal improvement is to redistribute the δi such that∑
iδi =O(δ)
but security is still maintained. Intuitively, ensuring δ <ϵ is necessary on level V𝓁 as otherwise
γ +δ≥ 1 and there are no unpebbled nodes on level V𝓁 (all the missing black pebbles can be
covered with red pebbles). However, as the dependencies expand between levels a larger δ can
be tolerated as well. Although the number of black pebbles the prover will place on each level
isn’t ﬁxed a priori, we show that if δ <ϵ/2 in level V𝓁 then we can tolerate a factor 3/2 increase
between levels as long as δ≤ 0.05 in any layer. 6
That is, if δi denotes the bound on the number of red pebbles in the ith layer then our new
analysis requires δ𝓁 < ϵ/2 and δi =min(0.05, (3/2)δi+1). This means that the total number of
queries in the PoS over all levels is O(1/ϵ) because ∑𝓁
i=1 1/δi≤max(0.10𝓁, 3
2δ𝓁
).
Claim 7. IfGSDR initially has at most γn black pebbles for γ≤ 1−ϵ, at most δ𝓁 = δ < ϵ/3
red pebbles in layer V𝓁, and at most δi = min(0.05, (2/3)δi−1) red pebbles in layer Vi, then for
𝓁 =max(13, log2( 1
3(ϵ−3δ)) + 4) the unpebbled nodes in V𝓁 have unpebbled paths to at least 0.80n
unpebbled nodes in some layer Vi.
Proof. Modifying Equation 3.1 to account for the diﬀerent values of δi gives:
α𝓁−k≥ 2kα𝓁− 2k−1γ𝓁− (2k−1δ𝓁−1 + 2k−2δ𝓁−2 +··· +δ𝓁−k)≥ 2kα𝓁− 2k−1γ𝓁−
k∑
i=1
2k−i(3/2)i−1δ𝓁
Let σk =∑k
i=1 2k−i(3/2)i−1. Then (4 /3)σk = σk + 2k+1/3− (3/2)k−1. Therefore σk = 2k+1−
3k/2k−1< 2k+1. Using γ𝓁≤α𝓁 +δ𝓁−ϵ and α𝓁≥ϵ−δ𝓁 we derive the new bound:
α𝓁−k≥ 2kα𝓁− 2k−1γ𝓁− 2k+1δ𝓁≥ 2k−1(α𝓁 +ϵ− 5δ𝓁)≥ 2k(ϵ− 3δ) (3.3)
This shows that if 𝓁≥ log2( 1
3(ϵ−3δ)) then there is some level Vi where αi≥ 1/3.
We must also modify Equation 3.2 using ∑k
j=1ρi−j≤γi≤αi−ϵ +δi:
αi−k≥ (k− 1)minj<k ˆβ(αi−j)−
k∑
j=0
δi−j + ˆβ(αi) +ϵ (3.4)
When i =𝓁 and k is small δ𝓁−k = (3/2)kδ𝓁 and δ𝓁≤ϵ/3 implies:
α𝓁−k≥ (k− 1)minj<k ˆβ(αi−j) + ˆβ(α𝓁) + (2
3− 3k
2k+1 )ϵ
Otherwise, we can use δi≤ 0.05.
αi−k≥ (k− 1)(minj<k ˆβ(αi−j)− 0.05) + ˆβ(αi) +ϵ− 0.10
Now we turn back to the two cases for αi≥ 1/3.
6The 2/3 factor is somewhat arbitrary. In general we can choose any growth factor for δ that is smaller than
the dependency expansion factor we use in our analysis, which for d = 8 is at least 2 in subsets smaller than n/3.
The analysis could also be tightened to allow for a bound larger than 0 .05. The maximum allowable δ can also
be increased if we decrease the target fraction of unpebbled dependencies, e.g. from 80% to 70%. Our analysis
here does not yet optimize this tradeoﬀ.
29

Case α𝓁 ≥ 1/3: We claim that α𝓁−k ≥ 0.11 for all k. This is true for α𝓁 by hypothesis.
From the equation above and the bound ˆβ(α)≥ 0.12 for all α∈ (0.10, 0.80) (Corollary 2),
α𝓁−1≥ ˆβ(α𝓁)−ϵ/12 > 0.11. Therefore, α𝓁−2≥ (0.12− 0.05) + 0.12− (11/24)ϵ≥ 0.18. Now
assume that α𝓁−2−j≥ 0.12 for all j < k, then α𝓁−2−j≥ (k− 1)0.07 + 0.12− (11/24)ϵ >0.11.
The claim follows by induction. This also shows that α𝓁−k≥ (k− 3)0.07 + 0.11 > 0.80 when
k = 13.
Case α𝓁 < 1/3: From Equation 3.3, αi≥ 1/3 at some index i≥𝓁−k for k = log2( 2
3(α𝓁+ϵ−5δ𝓁)).
At this point αi≥ 1/3 and γi<γ 𝓁≤α𝓁−ϵ +δ𝓁. Combining this with Equation 3.4 gives:
αi−k′≥ (k′− 1)(minj<k′ ˆβ(αi−j)− 0.05) +β(αi)−α𝓁 +ϵ− 0.05−δ𝓁
We claim that αi−k′≥ 0.30 for all k′. Observe that αi− 1≥ β(αi)−α𝓁 +ϵ− 0.05−δ𝓁≥
0.68− 0.38 +ϵ−δell≥ 0.30 for any value α𝓁< 0.33 because β(αi)≥β(0.33)≥ 0.68. Assuming
this is true for all αi−j where 1 < j≤ k′ implies αi−k′≥ (k′− 1)0.07 + 0.30≥ 30. Therefore,
we can state more generally that αi−k′ ≥ (k′− 1)0.07 + 0.68−α𝓁 and αi−k′−1≥ 0.80 when
k′ = (0.12 +α𝓁)/0.07. The total number of levels where αi< 0.80 is thus at most:
k +k′ + 1≤ 1− log2((3/2)(α𝓁 +ϵ− 5δ𝓁)) + 2 +α𝓁/0.07
Diﬀerentiating this expression with respect to α𝓁 shows that the maxima over α𝓁∈ (ϵ−
δ𝓁, 0.33) are on the endpoints. The endpoint α𝓁 = 0.33 coincides with the case above. At the
endpoint ϵ−δ𝓁 the number of levels is bounded by 3 − log2(3(α𝓁 +ϵ− 5δ)) +ϵ/0.07.
In conclusion, considering both cases, the total number of levels before αi≥ 0.80 is at most:
𝓁≥max(13, 3− log2(3(ϵ− 3δ𝓁)) +ϵ/0.07)
In particular, when ϵ≤ 0.07 and δ𝓁 =δ then 𝓁≤max(12, 4− log2(3(ϵ− 3δ)).
4 “ZigZag” DRG Proof of Replication
The Stacked-DRG PoS can be adapted into a PoRep. The replication algorithm on a data
inputD with commitmentτD ﬁrst derives the labels on level V𝓁−1 and then uses these as “keys”
to encode D on the last level V𝓁. Each ith label on the ﬁnal layer encodes di and uses a key
ki = H(τD||cparents(i)) where cparents(i) are the labels on all the nodes with directed edges to
the ith node in V𝓁, including within layer V𝓁 and layer V𝓁−1. The label ei then encodes di as
Enc(ki⊕di) (where e.g. Enc is a veriﬁable delay encoding). The replica R consists of e1,...,e n.
However, with this construction, decoding D from R (i.e. data extraction) is nearly as ex-
pensive as data replication because it requires re-deriving the keys on levelV𝓁−1 in the same way.
Once the labels on levelV𝓁−1 have been derived, then the data can be decoded asdi = Dec(ei⊕ki).
Once all the labels required for each key derivation are stored in memory (requiring double the
memory if done naively) then the last step of the decoding can be completely parallelized.
The ZigZag PoRep construction ﬁxes this with a simple tweak.
30

4.1 ZigZag PoRep Construction
The basic idea of ZigZag is to layer DRGs so that each layer “encodes” the previous layer. The
critical desired property to achieve is: if all the labels on a given level are available in memory
then the labels can decoded in parallel. To achieve this, instead of adding edge dependencies
between the layers, we add the edges of a constant degree expander graph in each layer so that
every layer is both depth-robust and has high “expansion”. Technically, the graph we construct
in each layer is an expander as an undirected graph. As a DAG this means that the union of
the dependencies and targets of any subset is large. By alternating the direction of the edges
between layers, forming a “zig-zag”, we are able to show that the dependencies between layers
expand. Now the only edges between layers are between nodes at the same index, and the
label on each node encodes the label on the node at the same index in the previous level. The
dependencies used for keys are all contained in the same layer. Thus, the labels in any layer are
suﬃcient to recover the labels in the preceding layer. Moreover, the decoding step can be done
in parallel.
Without alternating the direction of the edges between layers this construction would fail to
be a tight proof of space because the topologically last ϵn nodes in a layer would only depend
on the topologically last ϵn nodes in the previous layer. Moreover, if the prover stores the labels
on the topologically ﬁrst (1 −ϵ)n nodes it can quickly recover the labels on the topologically
ﬁrst (1−ϵ)n nodes in the preceding level, allowing it to recover the missing ϵn labels as well in
parallel-time O(ϵn).
DAG encodings As a building block the ZigZag PoRep uses the follow DAG encodings
scheme, which was used to construct PoReps based on depth robust graphs in [19, 20, 33].
The DAG encoding scheme takes in a data ﬁle X on n blocks x1,...,x n and a d-inregular DAG
on n nodes together with its parent function Parents(i) which outputs the parent nodes of the
ith node. It also uses a randomized encoding scheme Enc, Dec. This may be as simple as the
identity function, or could use VDE encoding for added delay. The beneﬁt of adding a delay is
to increase the time required to regenerate replicas even when n is relatively small. The delay
can be tuned appropriately for larger n. Finally, it takes in a seed σ which it uses as a salt for
a collision-resistant hash function H :{0, 1}md→{ 0, 1}m.
DAGEnc(⃗ x,m,n,σ){
for i = 1 to n:
(v1,...,v d)← Parents(i)
ki←H(σ||cv1||···|| cvd)
ci← Enc(ki⊕xi)
e← (c1,...,c n)
return e}
Construction ofGZZ [𝓁] Similar to GSDE , the graphGZZ [𝓁] contains a copy of an (n, 0.80n,βn )-
depth-robust graph for some constantβ in each of the𝓁 layersV1,...,V 𝓁. The nodes in each layer
are indexed in [ n]. Every odd layer overlays the edges of the DRG in the forward direction
(edges go from lower to higher indices) while every even layer the edges of the DRG in the re-
verse direction (edges go from higher indices to lower indices). Note that the even layer graphs
31

are not necessarily the reverse 7 of the odd layer graphs. They are constructed by reversing the
numbering of the nodes.
Edges are added between same index nodes in adjacent layers (i.e. the ith node in layer Vk
is connected to the ith node in layer Vk+1 for all i,k ). Next, the edges that were between layers
inGSDE [𝓁] are projected into each layer of GZZ [𝓁] with the direction of each edge determined
by the parity of the layer. We call these expander edges to distinguish8 them from other edges.
More precisely, if GSDE [𝓁] has an edge from the ith node of a layer Vk to the jth node of layer
Vk+1 then GZZ [𝓁] has an edge between the ith node of Vk+1 and the jth node of Vk+1. The
direction of the edges added to Vk+1 is from lower indices to higher indices when k + 1 is odd,
and from higher indices to lower indices when k + 1 is even. (For concreteness in the analysis,
the edges between layers in the reference graph GSDE are assumed to be constructed using the
degree 8 Chung random bipartite graph construction).
PoRep Replicate The ZigZag PoRep construction uses GZZ [𝓁] to uniquely encode an input
data ﬁle D. The PoRep.Replicate algorithm derives the replica encoding of D with data tag τD
and unique identiﬁer id as a labeling of the ﬁnal layer V𝓁. PoRep construction iterates over all
the layers from i = 1 to i = 𝓁. The labels on the ith layer re-encode the labels on the i− 1st
layer using the basic DAGEncode scheme on the subgraph ( Vi,Ei) (where Ei are the edges of
GZZ [𝓁] within the layer Vi). Each ith label e(j)
i in layer Vj encodes the label e(j−1)
i using key
ki,j =H(τD||cparents(i,j )) where cparents(i,j ) are the labels on all the nodes with directed edges
to the ith node in Vj. The encoding e(j)
i is then Enc(ki,j⊕e(j−1)
i ) (where e.g. Enc is a veriﬁable
delay encoding). Note that the encoding of the next layer can be computed just using a buﬀer
of size n blocks because the new encodings of the blocks are derived in reverse topological order
(i.e. the topological order of the next layer) and once a label is replaced with its fresh encoding
it is no longer needed. The ﬁnal replica R consists of the encodingse(𝓁)
1 ,...,e (𝓁)
n on the ﬁnal layer.
PoRep “oﬄine” proof The compact output aux of PoRep.Replicate is nearly the same as
the PoS oﬄine proof in the Initialization of the stacked DRG PoS. First a vector commitment
Φ to all the labels in all layers is derived. Chal samples λi uniform random challenge labels in
each layerVi and provides their parent labels and inclusion proofs of all these labels in a vector
commitment Φ. However, the one diﬀerence is that aux also includes for each challenged label
in Vi the inclusion proof of the label it encodes in Vi−1. The veriﬁcation of this proof obtains
the decoded label in Vi−1 by ﬁrst deriving the keys from the parent labels provided and then
using Dec to decode each challenge label. For the challenges on layer V1 the inclusion proofs of
the encoded data inputs are with respect to τD.
PoReP Prove and Verify Likewise, the basis for the online proofs output by PoRep.Proof in
the challenge-response protocol is also the Execution challenge-response protocol of the stacked
DRG PoS. There are two variants. The ﬁrst is exactly the same, containing the labels of κ
7The reverse of a graph is a graph on the same nodes with the direction of all edges reversed. While this would
still work conceptually for our construction it might not be locally navigatable. If the edges are sampled pseudo-
randomly using a random oracle then evaluating the inverse DRG.Parents function would be a linear operation.
For eﬃciency, it would be necessary to separately store a table deﬁning all the edges of the graph.
8The distinction between expander edges and all other edges is important in the analysis. In particular, the
expander edges are between the same index nodes in every layer and diﬀer only in their directionality.
32

randomly sampled nodes on the ﬁnal layerV𝓁 and their inclusion proofs in the vector commitment
Φ in aux. The second variant includes in response to a challenge on the ith index of V𝓁 the ith
keys in each layer for a total of κ𝓁 keys. This enables the PoRep.Verify to check that each
challenged label correctly encodes a committed data input. It also requires the prover to run
PoRep.Extract to generate each proof. The second variant is more expensive (larger proves and
longer proving time), but achieves tighter security for the same parameters.
PoRep Extraction PoRep.Extract does the reverse operation of PoRep.Replicate on the replica
R, consisting of the n block labels in V𝓁. Once the labels on layer Vj have been computed and
stored in memory, then each keyki,j =H(τD||cparents(i,j )) can be computed and then each label
e(j)
i is replaced with e(j−1)
i = Dec(ki,j⊕e(j)
i ). The keys ki,j can be computed in parallel. If they
are stored in a buﬀer in memory then all the labels can be decoded in parallel as well. There is a
smooth tradeoﬀ between the additional space required and the parallel time speedup. With an
additional buﬀer of k blocks the labels can decoded in reverse topological order in parallelized
groups ofk≤n blocks at a time achieving a factor k parallel speedup. Moreover, the extraction
is already faster than replication due to asymmetry in the runtime of Dec vs Enc.
PoRep Security A PoRep construction is secure if it satisﬁes ϵ-rational replication (Sec-
tion 2.3). It was shown (Lemma 2, [19]) that this security deﬁnition is satisﬁed 9 if the PoRep
is both a PoS and a PoRC. Roughly, the PoRep achieves ϵ-rational replication (with soundness
error µ) if it is a PoS with a 1 −ϵ +δ space gap and it is a PoRC that a 1 −δ fraction of the
committed data and corresponding replica blocks are retrievable (both with soundness error µ).
While both variants can be tuned to a µ-sound (1−δ)-PoRC (Section ??) for any µ and δ,
i.e. a 1−δ fraction of the committed data inputs are retrievable from any prover passing with
probability µ, the second variant is tighter (i.e. achieves smaller δ keeping other parameters
equal). In the ﬁrst variant there is a factor 𝓁 union bound loss because although the proof in
aux ensures there are a bounded number of errors (i.e. incorrectly encoded labels) in each layer,
if just one label on the ith index in one of the layers is incorrect the ith block of the replica
may no longer encode di. Here we do not care about the correctness of the keys only how many
blocks of D can be successfully decoded from R.
Our analysis will focus on proving that the ZigZag PoRep, similar to the stacked DRG PoS,
is an arbitrarily tight PoS with only 𝓁 =O(log(1/ϵ) layers.
4.2 Invertible pebbling games
The red-black pebbling game no longer entirely captures the PoS security of the ZigZag PoRep
due to the involvement of the encoding scheme ( Enc, Dec) in the labeling rather than purely
a collision-resistant hash function. Most signiﬁcantly, the labels are now invertible. In terms
of the dependency graph of the labeling computation, the keys in each layer Vi still need to
be computed in topological order, however the labels may either be derived by decoding labels
in layer Vi+1 or encoding labels in layer Vi−1. We modify the black pebbling game to capture
invertibility of labels by coloring edges.
9Technically this security reduction requires a “knowledge of compression” assumption in order to remain true
under composition with other storage protocols.
33

White & green colored edges White edges are “one-way streets” corresponding to edge
dependencies involved in deriving keys via calls to the random oracle and are treated like normal
pebbling game edges. Green edges are “two-way street”, but still have a direction and diﬀerent
rules in either direction. If there is a directed green edge from u tov then a pebble can be placed
on v if and only if u and all nodes with white edges to v have pebbles. A pebble can be placed
on u if and only if v and all nodes with white edges to v have pebbles.
PoS soundness We still analyze the soundness of a PoS with invertible labels through the
game Red-Black-Pebbles as in Deﬁnition 1, however with the modiﬁcation that the adversary
plays the black pebbling game with white/green edges as described above instead of the plain
black pebbling game. Unfortunately, it is no longer clear that soundness under this security
deﬁnition is equivalent to soundness of the underlying labeling game in the random oracle
model. Pietrzak [33] proved this equivalence only for parallel soundness of the standard red-
black pebbling game and the random-oracle labeling game. If Enc/Dec are modeled as random
permutations then it seems reasonable that a similar equivalence could be proven in the ideal
cipher model, where a prover who uses too little space could either compress a random ora-
cle’s function table (used to derive keys) or a random permutation’s function table. However,
exploring the details of this analysis further is beyond the scope of this paper.
Labeling games with VDEs If Enc/Dec are instantiated with a VDE scheme in order to
slow down the adversary on smaller graphs then this also subtly changes the pebbling analysis.
Queries to the VDE are signiﬁcantly more expensive than queries to H so they cannot be
treated equally as pebbling moves. However, as remarked in [19], without loss of generality one
can assume a parallel adversary always queries the VDE to derive a label whenever both the
data/label input and key are available. Therefore, we can model the VDE and hash function
queries as a single pebbling move that can be made only when there are labels on all the
dependencies, including the input label and all the labels required for the key derivation.
4.3 PoS analysis of ZigZag PoRep
Our analysis follows the same general outline as the PoS analysis for the stacked DRG PoS on
GSDR[𝓁]. Here we analyze the hardness of the modiﬁed gameRed-Black-PebblesA(GZZ [𝓁],V𝓁, Chal)
using green/white edges, or equivalently the soundness of the PoS in this model. The directed
edges within every layerVi are white, whereas the directed edges between the same index nodes
in adjacent layers are green. (There are no other directed edges between layers).
As before, the bulk of the analysis involves showing that pebbling the entire last level V𝓁
(i.e. all unpebbled nodes) from an initial conﬁguration of only (1−ϵ)n black pebbles overall and
a bounded number δin of red pebbles in each level requires pebbling (in topological order) an
entire 80% unpebbled subgraph in some layer. Pebbling 80% of this subgraph in topological order
requires βn parallel rounds due to the depth robustness of each layer. Using the same notation
as before, this means thatGZZ [𝓁] is (γn,⃗δ,βn−1, 1)-hard. The proof that this translates to PoS
soundness needs to be updated as well because Claim 4 did a case-by-case analysis using the
expansion properties ofGSDR[𝓁]. Claim 2 and Claim B are not aﬀected by the new white/green
edge rules and the structural diﬀerences betweenGSDR[𝓁] andGZZ [𝓁] (the only relevant structural
property used in these claims is that these graphs are layered).
34

Index sets and nodes We associate nodes in any layer with indices in [ n] and say that an
index “is unpebbled in Vi” if the node at that index in Vi is initially unpebbled (including
black and red pebbles). We use the same notations in Notation 1 (Section 3) to denote the Ui
unpebbled index sets and Pi pebbled index sets in each layer, with ρi, δi, and γi deﬁned the
same.
Forward dependencies Bounding the parallel complexity of pebbling a set of nodes inGZZ [𝓁]
is no longer as simple as tracing unpebbled directed paths in the graph due to the fact that
pebbling moves can occur in either the “forward” or “reverse” directions. The direction in
which a dependency is pebbled is important to pebbling complexity. For instance, suppose all
nodes in V2 except the nth node (call it vn) were pebbled and no pebbles were placed in V1.
The parallel complexity of completing V2 is just 3 rounds in this case: all the dependencies of
the nth node un could be pebbled in the ﬁrst round, un could be pebbled in the second round,
and ﬁnally vn in the third. On the other hand, if there were pebbles on the ﬁrst n− 1 nodes of
V1 then the complexity would be n rounds because all the nodes in V2 must be pebbled in the
forward direction before vn. Our analysis will focus on identifying dependencies that must be
pebbled in the forward direction, which we call forward dependencies. The following claim gives
a helpful strategy for tracing forward dependencies in GZZ [𝓁].
Claim 8. LetX be a set of unpebbled nodes inV𝓁 ofGZZ [𝓁]. Form the set Y as follows. Initialize
Y := X. Iterate over the layers starting from V𝓁−1. In each layer Vi add a node to Y if it is
unpebbled and has a green edge to a node in Y∩Vi+1 (i.e the same index node in Vi+1 is in Y ).
Additionally, add to Y any unpebbled node in Vi that has a two-hop directed path to Y∩Vi+1
via an expander white edge followed by a green edge. All nodes in Y are unpebbled forward
dependencies of X.
Proof. The proof is by ﬁnite strong induction on the nodes added in levels 𝓁 to i. In the base
case Y just consists of X in V𝓁 and the statement is vacuously true (all nodes in X must be
pebbled in the forward direction). Now assume that all nodes added to Y in layers V𝓁,...,V i+1
are forward dependencies of X. If an unpebbled node u∈ Vi has a green edge to a node v in
Y then u must be pebbled before v because by hypothesis v must be pebbled in the forward
direction. Clearly, u must also be pebbled in the forward direction (otherwisev must be pebbled
before u). This makes u a forward dependency of X. Next consider any unpebbled u′∈Vi with
a white directed expander edge to u. This is a dependency of u and therefore a dependency
of X. The node u′ also has a green edge the same index node v′ in Vi+1. Since the expander
edges are the same in each layer with alternating directions there is a directed white edge from
v to v′ and so v must have a pebble before u′ can be pebbled in the reverse direction via v′.
This cannot happen because u′ is a dependency of v. Hence, u′ must be pebbled in the forward
direction. We have shown that both u′ and u are forward dependencies of X.
The following lemma provides lower bounds on the dependency expansion of subsets in any
given layer and is the main fact needed for the remaining analysis.
Lemma 6. For any α∈ (0, 1) and i∈ [𝓁] and a set X of αn unpebbled nodes in layer Vi of
GZZ [𝓁], if α−ρi−1−ρi−2≤ 1/3 then X has at least (2(α−ρi−1−ρi−2)−δi−1−δi−2)n forward
dependencies in layer Vi−2. Otherwise, X has at least (0.12 +α−ρi−1−ρi−2−δi−1−δi−2)n
forward dependencies in Vi−2.
35

Proof. Fixing any given subset S of Vi of size αn, we deﬁne the following index sets:
• X =S∩Ui is the index set of the αn unpebbled nodes contained in this subset of Vi.
• X′ =X∩Ui−1 is the index subset of X that is unpebbled in Vi−1
• X′′ =X′∩Ui−2 is the index subset of X′ that is unpebbled in Vi−2.
• Γout(X′) are the indices of nodes on the boundary of X′ in Vi with edges from X′. Γ out(X′)
is disjoint from X′ as it does not include nodes in X′ with internal edges to X′. Γ out(X′′) is
deﬁned the same way for the set X′′.
• Γin(X′) are the indices of nodes on the boundary of X′′ in Vi with edges to X′. Γ in(X′′) is
deﬁned the same.
We partition the (ρi−1 +δ)n pebbles on Vi−1 as follows:
pT
i−1n =|Pi−1∩ Γin(X′)| pD
i−1n =|Pi−1∩ Γout(X′)| pi−1n (the remaining pebbles)
Likewise, we partion the (ρi−2 +δ)n pebbles on Vi−2 into:
pD
i−2n =|Pi−2∩ Γin(X′′)| pT
i−2 =|Pi−2∩ Γout(X′′)| pi−2n (the remaining pebbles)
Deﬁne the index setZ =X′′∪(Γout(X′)∩Ui−1∩Ui−2)∪(Γout(X′′)∩Ui−2). X′′ are unpebbled
nodes connected to X via green edges. Γ out(X′)∩Ui−1 are unpebbled direct dependencies of
X′ inVi−2 due to reversal of edges, and Γ out(X′)∩Ui−1∩Ui−1 are connected to these via green
edges. Γ in(X′) are targets ofX′ inVi−2 and Γin(X′)∩Ui−2 are unpebbled direct dependencies of
X′′. Thus, by Claim 8, all nodes at the indices Z inVi−2 are all unpebbled forward dependencies
of X.
Finally, recall from Claim that Γin(X′′)∪Γout(X′′)∪X′′ = Γ(X′′)∪X′′ inherits the expansion
of the bipartite expander used in the construction. Since |X′′| = α′′≥ α−ρi−1−ρi−2, in the
case that α−ρi−1−ρi−2≤ 1/3 then|Γout(X′′)∪X′′|≥ 2|α−ρi−1−ρi−2| with overwhelming
probability, assuming the expander construction uses Chung’s degree 8 bipartite expanders (by
Corollary 1, Section 2.7). Thus:
|Z|≥| X′′| + (|Γout(X′)|− pD
i−1n−pT
i−2n) + (|Γin(X′′)|− pD
i−2n
≥|X′′| +|Γout(X′′)| +|Γin(X′′)|− pD
i−1n−pT
i−2n−pD
i−2n
≥ (2(α−pi−1−pi−2)−pD
i−1−pT
i−2−pD
i−2)n
≥ (2(α−ρi−1−ρi−2)−δi−1−δi−2)n
In the case thatα−ρi−1−ρi−2≥ 1/3 then|X′′|∈ (0.33, 0.80) and Γ(X′′)≥ 0.12 (by Claim 2,
Section 2.7).
|Z|≥| X′′| +|Γ(X′′)|− (pD
i−1 +pT
i−2 +pD
i−2)n
≥ (0.12 +α−pi−1−pD
i−1−pi−2−pT
i−2−pD
i−2)n
≥ (0.12 +α−ρi−1−ρi−2−δi−1−δi−2)n
36

Theorem 4. The labeling PoS onGZZ [𝓁] with Chal samplingλ/δ challenges in each level Vi and
κ online challenges in V𝓁 is ((1−ϵ−2δ)n,βn−1,e−λ)-sound with κ = 2λ/ϵ,δ <min(0.01,ϵ/ 3),
ϵ + 2δ≤ 0.24, and 𝓁 = 2 log2( 1
3(ϵ−3δ)) + 18.
Proof. For anyGSDR[𝓁], if the set of unpebbled nodes in V𝓁 are connected via unpebbled paths
to at least 0.80n unpebbled forward dependencies in some prior level Vi, then pebbling all of V𝓁
requires pebbling all these 0 .80n unpebbled nodes in topological order, which requires βn− 1
rounds due to the fact that Vi is (n, 0.80n,βn ) depth robust. Claim 11 thus implies that GZZ [𝓁]
is (1−ϵ,⃗δ,βn−1, 1)-hard whereδi =δ <ϵ/3 for alli and𝓁 = 2 log2( 1
3(ϵ−3δ))+16 when δ <0.01.
Assumingϵ+ 2δ≤ 0.24, Claim 9 implies thatGZZ [𝓁+ 2] is (1−ϵ−2δ,⃗δ,βn−1, 1−ϵ/2)-hard
extending ⃗δ so that δ𝓁+1 = δ𝓁 = δ. Finally, by Claim 2 the labeling PoS on GZZ [𝓁 + 1] with
challenge setV𝓁 and Chal samplingλ in each levelVi is ((1−ϵ− 2δ)n,βn− 1,max{(1−δ)λ, (1−
ϵ/2)κ})-sound. When λi =λ/δ and κ = 2λ/ϵ, the PoS is ((1−ϵ)n,βn− 1,e−λ)-sound.
The next claim proves the same result as Claim 4 but for the graph GZZ [𝓁].
Claim 9. For any ϵ + 2δ≤ 0.24, if GZZ [𝓁− 2] is (1−ϵ + 2δ,⃗δ,t− 2, 1)-hard then GZZ [𝓁] is
(1−ϵ,⃗δ∗,min (βn− 1,t ), 1−ϵ/2)-hard where ⃗δ∗ is identical to ⃗ von all common indices and
δ =δ𝓁 =δ𝓁−1 =δ𝓁−2≤ϵ/2.
Proof. Letγ = 1−ϵ denote the black pebbled initially placed on GSDR[𝓁]. As noted in Claim 4,
every subset of V𝓁 of size (1−ϵ/2)n contains at least (α𝓁−ϵ/2)n unpebbled nodes. Without
loss of generality we assume α𝓁−ϵ/2≤ 0.80 (otherwise these nodes already require βn rounds
to pebble).
Fixing any given subset S ofV𝓁 of size (1−ϵ/2)n, let X =S∩U𝓁, the unpebbled set among
the nodes at indices S in V𝓁. We will show that X requires more than min(βt,t ) rounds to
pebble given the hypothesis that GZ[𝓁− 2] is (1−ϵ + 2δ,⃗δ,t− 2, 1)-hard. Since this holds for
any choice of S this shows thatGZZ [𝓁] is (1−ϵ,⃗δ∗,min (βn− 1,t ), 1−ϵ/2)-hard.
As noted,|X|≥ (α𝓁−ϵ/2)n. Let α∗ =α𝓁−ϵ/2−ρ𝓁−1−ρ𝓁−2. The proof is broken into two
cases:
Case α∗≤ 1/3: Let Z denote the unpebbled forward dependencies of X inside V𝓁−2. From
Lemma 6 we know that |Z|≥ (2α∗−δ)n. Thus:
|Z|≥ 2(α𝓁−ρ𝓁−1−ρ𝓁−2−δ)n−ϵn = (2(1−ρ𝓁−ρ𝓁−1−ρ𝓁−2− 2δ)−ϵ)n
Let|Z|/n =α′. Using the identity γ𝓁−2 =γ−ρ𝓁−ρ𝓁−1−ρ𝓁−2 gives:
α′−γ𝓁−2≥ 2(1− 2δ)−ρ𝓁−ρ𝓁−1−ρ𝓁−2−γ−ϵ≥ 2(1−γ− 2δ)−ϵ =ϵ− 4δ
Settingγ′ = 1−ϵ + 2δ, the above relation shows that α′−γ𝓁−2≥ 1−γ′− 2δ. Thus, by Claim B,
ifGZZ [𝓁− 2] is (γ′,⃗δ,t− 2, 1)-hard then no adversary can pebble Z in t− 2 or fewer rounds.
Since these are forward dependencies of X at least t rounds are required to pebbled X.
Case α∗ > 1/3 : In this case Lemma 6 showed that |Z|≥ (0.12− 2δ +α−ρ𝓁−1−ρ𝓁−2)n.
Noting that α≥α𝓁−ϵ/2 and γ𝓁−2 =γ−ρ𝓁−ρ𝓁−1−ρ𝓁−2 and 1−ρ𝓁−δ =α𝓁 we derive:
α′−γ𝓁−2≥ 0.12− 2δ +α𝓁−ϵ/2 +ρ𝓁−γ = 0.12− 2δ + 1−γ−δ−ϵ/2 = 0.12− 3δ +ϵ/2
37

Given thatGZZ [𝓁− 2] is (γ′,⃗δ,t− 2, 1)-hard with γ′ = 1−ϵ + 2δ no adversary can pebble Z
in t− 2 rounds as long as 0.12 +ϵ/2− 3δ≥ϵ− 2δ, which is true for ϵ + 2δ≤ 0.24.
The remaining claims complete the analysis by showing that GZZ [𝓁] is ( γn,⃗δ,βn − 1, 1)-
hard. These claims follow Claim 5, Claim 6, and Claim 6 very closely, substituting the new
dependency expansion relations proved in Lemma 6. We assume the reader is familiar with the
proofs of these prior claims and we will not repeat all the details.
Claim 10. IfGZZ [𝓁] for 𝓁 = log 2( 1
3(ϵ−3δ)) initially has at most γn black pebbles for γ≤ 1−ϵ
and at most δ <ϵ/3 red pebbles in each layer then the unpebbled nodes U𝓁 in V𝓁 have least n/3
unpebbled forward dependencies in some layer Vi. Moreover, αi−ρi−1−ρi−2≥ 1/3.
Proof. Letαi denote the fraction of nodes in Vi that are unpebbled forward dependencies of U𝓁
with α𝓁n =|U𝓁|. Suppose α𝓁−i−ρ𝓁−i−1−ρ𝓁−i−2≤ 1/3 for i = 0 to 2k. By Lemma 6, αj−2≥
2(αj−ρj−1−ρj−2−δ). We prove by induction thatα𝓁−2k≥ 2kα𝓁−2k(ρ𝓁−1 +ρ𝓁−2)−(2k+1−2)δ.
The base case k = 0 is trivial. Assuming this holds for k, then:
α𝓁−2(k+1)≥ 2(α𝓁−k−ρ𝓁−2k−1−ρ𝓁−2k−2−δ)
≥ 2(2kα𝓁− 2k(ρ𝓁−1 +ρ𝓁−2)−ρ𝓁−2k−1−ρ𝓁−2k−2− (2k+1− 2)δ−δ
≥ 2(2kα𝓁− 2k(ρ𝓁−1 +ρ𝓁−2)− (2k+1− 1)δ)≥ 2k+1α𝓁− 2k+1(ρ𝓁−1 +ρ𝓁−2)− (2k+2− 2)δ
We used the fact that whenk> 0 the expression 2k(ρ𝓁−1+ρ𝓁−2)−ρ𝓁−2k−1−ρ𝓁−2k−2 is maximized
when ρ𝓁−1 +ρ𝓁−2 =γ𝓁 and ρ𝓁−i = 0 for all i> 2.
This shows that α𝓁−2k≥ 2kα𝓁− 2kγ𝓁− 2k+1δ. Substituting γ𝓁 =γ +α𝓁− 1 +δ≤α𝓁 +δ−ϵ
gives:
α𝓁−2k≥ 2kα𝓁− 2k(α𝓁 +δ−ϵ)− 2k+1δ = 2k(ϵ− 3δ)
Therefore, αi−ρi−1−ρi−2≥ 1/3 at some index i>𝓁 − log2( 1
3(ϵ−3δ)).
Claim 11. IfGZZ [𝓁] with 𝓁 = 2 log2( 1
3(ϵ−2δ)) + 20.80−ϵ+δ
0.12−2δ initially has at most γn black pebbles
for γ≤ 1−ϵ and at most δ <min(0.06,ϵ/ 3) red pebbles in each layer then the unpebbled nodes
in V𝓁 have at least 0.80n unpebbled forward dependencies in some layer Vi.
Proof. From Claim 10 there exists an index i where Vi contains more than n/3 forward depen-
dencies of U𝓁. We break our analysis into two cases depending on the initial size of U𝓁. First,
there are two important subclaims:
Subclaim 1: αi−γi≥ϵ−δ for all i.
This is true for the base case α𝓁−γ𝓁≥ 1−ρ𝓁−δ− (γ−ρ𝓁)≥ ϵ−δ. Now suppose that
αi−γi≥ϵ−δ andϵ> 4δ. By the analysis in Lemma 6 and the identity γi−2 =γi−ρi−1−ρi−2
we get that αi−2−γi−2≥| Γ(X′′)|− 2δ +αi−γi≥| Γ(X′′)| +ϵ− 3δ where X′′ was a set of size
at least αi−γi− 2δ≥ ϵ− 3δ≥ δ. Thus, αi−2−γi−2≥ ϵ−δ as long as Γ(X′′)≥ 2δ. As long
as δ <0.06, then either |X′′| < 0.10 and is at least 3-expanding (see Table 2.2, Lemma 2) so
|Γ(X′′)|≥ 2|X′′|≥ 2δ, or otherwise|X′′|∈ (0.10, 0.80) and Γ(|X′′|)≥ 0.12 (Corollary 2).
38

Subclaim 2: If αi−ρi−1−ρi−2> 1/3 then αi−k−ρi−k−1−ρi−k−2≥ 0.12 for all k.
This is true for the base case αi by hypothesis. For the inductive step, suppose that αi−k−
ρi−k−1−ρi−k−2∈ (0.12, 0.80). By the analysis in Lemma 6 and Corollary 2, αi−k−2≥ 0.12−
2δ +αi−γi. Putting this together with αi−k−γi−k >ϵ −δ from Subclaim 1 above shows:
αi−k−2−ρi−k−3−ρi−k−4≥ 0.12− 2δ +αi−k−ρi−k−1−ρi−k−2−ρi−k−3−ρi−k−4
≥ 0.12− 2δ +αi−k−γi−k≥ 0.12 +ϵ− 3δ
Thus, the inductive step holds true as long as ϵ> 3δ.
Now we proceed with the two cases. Let α∗ =α𝓁−ρ𝓁−1−ρ𝓁−2.
Caseα∗≥ 1/3: It follows from Subclaim 1, Subclaim 2 and Lemma 6 that α𝓁−2k≥k(0.12−
2δ) +α𝓁−γ𝓁≥ k(0.12− 2δ) +ϵ−δ. Therefore α𝓁−2k≥ 0.80 for k≥ 0.80−ϵ+δ
0.12−2δ (e.g. k = 8 for
δ≤ 0.01).
Case α∗ < 1/3: By Claim 10 there exists an index i ≥ 𝓁− 2 log2( 1
3(ϵ−3δ)) where αi−
ρi−1−ρi−2≥ 1/3. Then just as in the previous case, Subclaim 1 and Subclaim 2 imply that
αi−2k≥ 0.80 for k≥ 0.80/(0.12− 2δ). Therefore, setting:
𝓁 = 2 log2( 1
3(ϵ− 3δ)) + 20.80−ϵ +δ
0.12− 2δ
there is some index i whereαi≥ 0.80. In particular, for δ≤ 0.01, the number of required levels
is at most 2 log 2( 1
3(ϵ−3δ)) + 16.
Acknowledgments
Dan Boneh and Nicola Greco contributed to this work through helpful comments and conversa-
tions. Nicola and Juan Benet came up with the name “ZigZag PoRep”.
References
[1] Proof of replication. Protocol Labs, 2017. https://filecoin.io/proof-of-replication.
pdf.
[2] Hamza Abusalah, Jo¨ el Alwen, Bram Cohen, Danylo Khilko, Krzysztof Pietrzak, and Leonid
Reyzin. Beyond hellman’s time-memory trade-oﬀs with applications to proofs of space. In
ASIACRYPT, 2017.
[3] Martin R. Albrecht, Lorenzo Grassi, Christian Rechberger, Arnab Roy, and Tyge Tiessen.
Mimc: Eﬃcient encryption and cryptographic hashing with minimal multiplicative com-
plexity. In ASIACRYPT, pages 191–219, 2016.
[4] Ralph Phillips Alexander Lubotzky and Peter Sarnak. Ramanujan graphs. In Combinator-
ica, 1988.
[5] Jo¨ el Alwen, Jeremiah Blocki, and Benjamin Harsha. Practical graphs for optimal side-
channel resistant memory-hard functions. In CCS, 2017.
[6] Jo¨ el Alwen, Jeremiah Blocki, and Krzysztof Pietrzak. Sustained space complexity. In
EUROCRYPT, 2018.
39

[7] Giuseppe Ateniese, Ilario Bonacina, Antonio Faonio, and Nicola Galesi. Proofs of space:
When space is of the essence. In SCN 2014, 2014.
[8] Giuseppe Ateniese, Randal Burns, Reza Curtmola, Joseph Herring, Lea Kissner, Zachary
Peterson, and Dawn Song. Provable data possession at untrusted stores. InACM Conference
on Computer and Communications Security , 2007.
[9] Leonid Alexandrovich Bassalygo. Asymptotically optimal switching circuits. In Problemy
Peredachi Informatsii, 1981.
[10] Eli Ben-Sasson, Alessandro Chiesa, and Nicholas Spooner. Interactive oracle proofs. In
Theory of Cryptography, 2016.
[11] Dan Boneh, Joseph Bonneau, Benedikt Bunz, and Ben Fisch. Veriﬁable delay functions.
2018. To appear in CRYPTO 2018.
[12] Kevin D. Bowers, Ari Juels, and Alina Oprea. Proofs of retrievability: theory and im-
plementation. In CCSW’09 Proceedings of the 2009 ACM workshop on Cloud computing
security), 2009.
[13] Dario Catalano and Dario Fiore. Vector commitments and their applications. In PKC 2013,
2013.
[14] Ethan Cecchetti, Ian Miers, and Ari Juels. Pies: Public incompressible encodings for de-
centralized storage. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2018/684, 2018. https://eprint.
iacr.org/2018/684.
[15] F.R.K. Chung. On concentrators, superconcentrators, generalizers, and nonblocking net-
works. In Bell System Technical Journal , 1979.
[16] Moni Naor Cynthia Dwork and Hoeteck Wee. Pebbling and proofs of work. In CRYPTO,
2005.
[17] Yevgeniy Dodis, Salil Vadhan, and Daniel Wichs. Proofs of retrievability via hardness
ampliﬁcation. In Theory of Cryptography Conference (TCC) , 2009.
[18] Stefan Dziembowski, Sebastian Faust, Vladimir Kolmogorov, and Krzysztof Pietrzak.
Proofs of space. In CRYPTO, 2015.
[19] Ben Fisch. Poreps: Proofs of space on useful data. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2018/678, 2018. https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/678.
[20] Ben Fisch, Joseph Bonneau, Juan Benet, and Nicola Greco. Proofs of replication using
depth robust graphs. In Blockchain Protocol Analysis and Security Engineering 2018, 2018.
https://cyber.stanford.edu/bpase2018.
[21] Antonio Faonio Giuseppe Ateniese, Ilario Bonacina and Nicola Galesi. Proofs of space:
when space is of the essence. In Security and Cryptography for Networks, 2014. , 2014.
[22] Dan Boneh Henry Corrigan-Gibbs and Stuart Schechter. Balloon hashing: a provably
memory-hard function with a data-independent access pattern. In Asiacrypt, 2016.
[23] Ari Juels and Burton S Kaliski Jr. Pors: Proofs of retrievability for large ﬁles. In Proceedings
of the 14th ACM conference on Computer and communications security , pages 584–597.
Acm, 2007.
[24] Arjen K Lenstra and Benjamin Wesolowski. A random zoo: sloth, unicorn, and trx. IACR
Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2015, 2015.
[25] Sergio Demian Lerner. Proof of unique blockchain storage, 2014. https://bitslog.
wordpress.com/2014/11/03/proof-of-local-blockchain-storage/ .
[26] Benoˆ ıt Libert, Somindu C. Ramanna, and Moti Yung. Functional commitment schemes:
From polynomial commitments to pairing-based from simple assumptions. In ICALP, 2016.
[27] Benoˆ ıt Libert and Moti Yung. Concise mercurial vector commitments and independent
40

zero-knowledge sets with short proofs. In TCC, 2010.
[28] Mohammad Mahmoody, Tal Moran, and Salil P Vadhan. Time-lock puzzles in the random
oracle model. In CRYPTO. Springer, 2011.
[29] Silvio Micali. Computationally sound proofs. In SIAM Journal on Computing. , 2000.
Preliminary version appeared in FOCS 1994.
[30] Salil Vadhan Omer Reingold and Avi Wigderson. Entropy waves, the zig-zag graph product,
and new constant-degree expanders and extractors. In FOCS, 2000.
[31] Sunoo Park, Krzysztof Pietrzak, Albert Kwon, Jo¨ el Alwen, Georg Fuchsbauer, and Peter
Gai. Spacemint: A cryptocurrency based on proofs of space. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2015/528, 2015. http://eprint.iacr.org/2015/528.
[32] Ronald L. Graham Paul Erd¨ os and Endre Szemeredi. On sparse graphs with dense long
paths. In Computers & Mathematics with Applications , 1975.
[33] Krzysztof Pietrzak. Proofs of Catalytic Space. Cryptology ePrint Archive # 2018/194,
2018.
[34] Arnold K. Pizer. Ramanujan graphs and hecke operators. In Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. , 1990.
[35] Ling Ren and Srinivas Devadas. Proof of space from stacked expanders. In TCC, 2016.
[36] Uwe Sch¨ oning. Better expanders and superconcentrators by kolmogorov complexity. In
SIROCCO, 1997.
[37] Hovav Shacham and Brent Waters. Compact proofs of retrievability. In Asiacrypt, 2008.
[38] R. Michael Tanner. Explicit concentrators from generalized n-gons. In Siam Journal on
Algebraic and Discrete Methods, 1984.
[39] Martin Tompa. Time-space tradeoﬀs for computing functions, using connectivity properties
of their circuits. In STOC, 1978.
[40] Leslie G. Valiant. Graph-theoretic properties in computational complexity. In Journal of
Computer and System Sciences , 1976.
A Concurrent work: PIEs
Independently and concurrently 10 to our work, Cecchetti et. al. [14] proposed a similar idea to
our stacked DRGs (using butterﬂy networks instead of expander graphs) to construct what they
called publicly incompressible encodings (PIEs).
PIE vs tight PoS A PIE has a similar soundness security deﬁnition to a PoS (c.f. Deﬁnition
1 in [14] and Page 7 [18] or Deﬁnition 9 [33]). An “ n-encoder” PIE is a special case of a graph
labeling PoS. An additional correctness requirement of a PIE is that the labeling is decodable
(exactly like PoReps based on graph labeling, see deﬁnitions in [19,33]). However, the soundness
of a PIE is weaker than a PoS because the deﬁnition of a PIE assumes that the prover cannot
cheat in the computation of the encoding. Equivalently, it assumes the veriﬁer knows the
correct labeling of the graph. A PoS addresses the more general setting that the veriﬁer does
not know the correct labeling. The authors of PIEs remark that proving to a weaker veriﬁer that
the labeling was computed correctly is orthogonal, however this tends to be the most critical
component aﬀecting proof size and thus practicality of the construction. (In fact, to convert
10A preprint of their paper was ﬁrst made publicly available on same day as a technical report containing
the constructions described in this work, https://web.stanford.edu/~bfisch/porep_short.pdf, and the full
version of this paper was submitted to Cryptology ePrint Archive a week later.
41

the construction they propose using stacked Butterﬂy graphs into a PoS using interactive oracle
proofs would result in approximately a factor log n larger proof size than the construction we
propose using stacked expander graphs, or a factor log n larger SNARK proof complexity if
using SNARKs to compress the proof size). Nonetheless, a PIE combined with a suitable proof
of correct encoding would result in a tight PoS and PoRep.
Proof size: Butterﬂy graphs vs expanders The speciﬁc construction of a PIE proposed
in [14] uses stacked DRGs (exactly like our construction), but connects each adjacent layer
with a Butterﬂy graph instead of expander edges. Each layer has an n-node (n,α,β )-DRG and
layers are connected by a Butterﬂy graph, each consisting of (n/2) logn nodes andn logn edges.
Instantiating the generic graph-labeling PoS or PoRep on this graph also gives a tight PoS
or PoRep provided that the proof involves suﬃcient queries to bound the number of incorrect
labels in each layer and Butterﬂy connector to δn. This requires the proof to query ( λ/δ) logn
labels in each layer/connector, for a total of ( λ/δ)𝓁 logn overall. We prove in Appendix B that
𝓁 = 1/(1−α) layers is suﬃcient. 11 For concrete comparison, when α = 0.80 and ϵ = 0.01 the
number of proof queries required for the stacked DRGs with Butterﬂy graphs is proportional to
5 lognλ/ϵ and with expander graphs it is proportional to 11λ/ϵ. The Butterﬂy graph proofs are
already a 5× larger for kilobyte size data, and is 15 ×-20× larger for gigabyte or terabyte size
data.
Compression-robustness vs proof of space Cecchetti et. al. introduce a deﬁnition called
compression-robustness and prove that the stacked DRGs with Butterﬂy graph connectors is
compression-robust. A (1 ,δ )-compression-robust graph is a DAG with n sources, n sinks, bal-
anced “data” input/output edges on each internal node, and all other edges treated as “key”
edges such that after removal of fewer than n data edges and all key edges that share an origin
node with one of these data edges there remains a path ending in a sink that includes at least
δn key edges. Any DAG with n sources/sinks and balanced data input/output edges in which
deletion of fewer than n nodes leaves a path of length at least δn (containing δn key edges)
ending in a sink satisﬁes this property. This is because any path that remains after removing
these nodes would also remain after removing only outgoing edges of these nodes. In fact, this
covers many cases, except the case where a node in the path has multiple data outputs and does
not contribute a key edge to the path.
Compression-robustness of the underlying encoder graph does not in general imply that
the graph encoding is a proof of space, or even a PIE, at least not with the same tightness.
Namely, we can provide a simple counterexample of a (1,δ )-compression-robust graph for which
the adversary can compress its storage to n− 1 data outputs and still recompute the nth
data output with fewer than δn sequential rounds of KDF/PRP oracle queries. The reason
this counterexample exists has to do with the fact that data labels can either be computed
from upstream labels (predecessors) using KDF/PRP or also decoded from downstream labels
(successors) using the inverse PRP. This means that a long path in the graph that remains after
removing data edges (or equivalently unpebbled path after placing pebbles) does not necessarily
need to be recomputed in topological order and therefore may not require sequential work.
11While it was proved in [14] that removal of fewer than n edges from the entire graph with 1 /α + 1 layers
leaves a path of length βn, it was not proven that this missing path is sequentially hard to pebble. Furthermore,
the analysis did not show that this construction combined with an imperfect proof of correct encoding is a proof
of space (i.e. when the prover is allowed up to δn errors per level).
42

Compression-robustness is insuﬃcient for PoS/PIE The counterexample graphG′ starts
with any (1,δ )-compression-robust graph G on n− 1 sources U and n− 1 sinks V and builds a
new graph G′ as follows. Add n− 1 new sources, connecting each source to a distinct node in
U, and n− 1 new sinks, connecting each node of V to a distinct sink. Next add key edges to U
and V turning each into a complete DAG. Finally, add an nth source u, an nth sink v, and a
node w that connects u to v via single input/output “data” edges. Add key edges from every
node inU andV tow. We claim this DAG is (1,min (δ, 1/2))-compression-robust. Consider any
removal ofn− 1 data edges. If any of these edges include any edge incident on u, w, or v, then
fewer than n− 1 data edges are removed from G. By construction, this means that G contains
a path containing at least δn key edges and ending in a sink. Otherwise, no edges incident to
u, w, or v are removed. Furthermore, fewer than n/2 edges have been removed from either U
or V , thus one of U or V still contains a path of at least length n/2 (along key edges). The
endpoint of this path connects via a non-removed key edge to w, which connects to the sink v.
Therefore, the graph is (1,min (δ, 1/2))-compression-robust. On the other hand, if an adversary
stores only the data outputs to the ﬁrst n− 1 sinks then it can decode all the labels of G in
parallel. Once it has computed these labels it can recover the labels on the data outputs of w
and v in two sequential steps.
This ﬁrst counterexample showed there exists a (1 ,δ )-compression-robust graph encoding
that the adversary can “compress” to n− 1 data outputs. We now give another counterexample
for which the adversary achieves a larger compression factor. Consider two stacked copies of
G′, a (1,δ )-compression-robust graph on n/2 nodes, connected such that the sinks of the ﬁrst
copy G′
1 are the sources of the second copy G′
2. We then add n/2 new sinks V and sources
U connected via an intermediary layer of n/2 nodes W so that each u∈ U is connected to
a unique v ∈ V via a unique intermediary w∈ W . Finally, add key edges from every non
sink/source nodes in G′′ =G′
1∪G′
2 to each node in W . Suppose that k data output edges from
W to the sinks V are removed, and n−k− 1 data edges from G′′ are removed for a total of
n− 1 removed edges. If k≥ n/2 then there are fewer than n/2− 1 edges removed from G′′,
hence there is a path including δn/2 key edges ending in a sink of G′′. Otherwise, if e1 is the
number of data edges removed from G′
1 and e2 is the number of data edges removed from G′
2
then min(e1,e 2)≤ n/2−k− 1. If e2 is the smaller value then there is a path including δn/2
key edges ending in a sink of G′′. If e1 is the smaller value, then there are at least k distinct
paths including δn/2 key edges in G′
1 ending in k distinct sinks of G′
1. Although these are not
sinks of G′′, at least one of these paths connect to a sink in V because every node in G′
1 whose
data output has not been removed still has key edges to every node in W . At least one data
output from some w∈ W to some v∈ V has not been removed because k < n/2, hence the
path in G′
1 connects to v. Thus, this graph is (1 ,δ/ 2)-compression robust. On the other hand,
if the adversary stores only the n/2 data outputs of G′′, then it can decode in 2 𝓁 rounds of
parallel queries all the data labels in G′′, where 𝓁 is the number of layers inG′, and then recover
the data outputs to the sinks V in a single additional round of parallel queries. In total this
requires 2𝓁 + 1 parallel operations, (e.g. O(logn) when G′ is constructed with stacked DRGs
and Butterﬂy graph connectors).
In summary, this counterexample demonstrates the existence of ann-encoder graph in which
removing fewer than n data edges leaves a path along at least δn/2 key edges, yet the PoS/PIE
adversary can compress its storage of the encoding by at least a factor two (storing only n/2
data labels) and can recover the entire encoding without doing signiﬁcant sequential work.
In the following section, we provide a diﬀerent analysis of this construction, which is simpliﬁed
43

Figure A.1: Illustration of the counterexample graph built from two mock (1 ,δ )-“compression-
robust” graphs G′
1 and G′
2 on n/2 nodes. The result is a (1 ,δ )-“compression-robust” whose
labeling game is neither a tight PoS nor a PIE. Red edges are key edges and blue edges are data
edges.
by using the fact that Butterﬂy graphs are superconcentrators [39,40]. Superconcentrators with
n nodes and n sinks have the property that any k sinks are connected to any k sources via k
vertex disjoint paths. In this sense they have similar connectivity properties to extreme bipartite
expanders. This analysis also accounts for the bounded number of deliberate errors the adversary
can make in its computation of the graph labels (using a pebbling game analysis).
B Stacked DRGs with Superconcentrators
We show that instantiating the generic graph-labeling PoS on stacked DRGs connected between
layers with superconcentrators instead of bipartite expanders (as in our construction) is also a
tight PoS. This is a generalization of the construction described in [14]. Stacked superconcen-
trators (speciﬁcally stacked Butterﬂy graphs) have also been used before in the literature on
proofs of space [7], just like stacked bipartite expanders [35]. They were also used in the PoS
construction by Dziembowski et. al. in combination with DRGs [18]. The main diﬀerence here
is how the DRGs and superconcentrators are interleaved, achieving a tighter PoS, and also how
they are used to encode data.
The proof is quite straightforward and in particular much easier than analyzing the stacked
DRGs with expanders. An n-superconcentrator is a graph with n sources andn nodes such that
that any k≤ n sources and k nodes are connected via k vertex disjoint paths. The Butterﬂy
graph is a special superconcentrator on n logn nodes where all nodes except the sources have
in-degree two and all except the nodes have out-degree two [39, 40]. More generally, an n-
superconcentrator is d-balanced if every non-source has in-degree d and every non-node has
out-degreed. If Vi andVi+1 are connected via a superconcentrator with balanced in-degree and
out-degree then the graph labeling on Vi+1 can encode the data labels on Vi (similar to the
ZigZag PoRep). Each node assigns a unique component of its data label to each of its outgoing
edges, and the label on each node is a PRP of the data inputs associated with each incoming
44

edge.
Graph construction and labeling The graph GDRSuper consists of layers V1,...,V 𝓁 where
eachVi containsn nodes and the edges of a depth robust graph. A layered set of nodes Gi and
edges Ei connect Vi to Vi+1 such that (Vi∪Gi∪Vi+1,Ei) is a d-balanced n-superconcentrator
with sources Vi and nodes Vi+1. Note that the edges Ei of the superconcentrator do not include
any edges internal to Vi or Vi+1. A labeling is then computed such that the label on each node
ofGi encodes components of the labels on each of its parent nodes and each node of Vi encodes
components of the labels on each of its parent nodes inGi−1. Every label is broken into d blocks,
represented as a length d vector. The jth component of a label c is denoted c[j]. Concretely, if
a node v∈ Gi has d predecessors v1,...,v d and the edge (vj,v ) is the ejth outgoing edge from
vj, then the label on cv is Enc(cv1[e1],...,c vd[ed]). The label on node v∈ Vi that has parents
v1,...vd in Gi−1 and parents u1,..,u d′ in Vi is a keyed encoding Enc(kv,cv1[e1],...,c vd[ed]) where
kv = H(cu1,...,c ud′). This is exactly like ZigZag PoRep which treats labels on parents in the
previous level as data inputs and all other parent labels as key derivation inputs.
Pebbling game vs labeling game Placing/storing a pebble on a node v corresponds to
computing/storing its label cv. A green edge corresponds to a data input and a white edge
corresponds to a key input. Recall that the rules of the pebble game with white/green edges are
that a pebble can only be placed on v if there are pebbles on all its immediate parent nodes, or
alternatively if for each of its children nodes u such that (v,u ) is a green edge there is a pebble
on u and all nodes with white edges to u.
When the key derivation uses a random oracle then intuitively the key derivation inputs,
namely the labels on all the nodes with white edges to v, must be known before the key for v
can be derived. As noted in our analysis of ZigZag PoRep, when Enc is a PRP (modeled as an
ideal cipher) then intuitively all the components on the parent labels that are input to cv must
be known, along with the key, before cv can be even partially computed from these inputs (in
the forward direction). Additionally cv can be completely decoded only if all the labels on the
nodes that encode components of cv are known (i.e. nodes with data edges from v). While each
ith component of cv could be individually decoded from the label on the target of the ith edge
from v, these components are not useful to derive any new labels that are known.
This only provides heuristic intuition for why the pebbling game captures the security of the
labeling game and is not a proof! A formal proof requires an adaptation of Pietrzak’s analysis
of the random oracle labeling game and black pebbling game to show that any adversary who
defeats the labeling game in some number of rounds with s bits of storage can be used to
construct an adversary who defeats the pebbling game in the same number of rounds with
≈ s/m initial pebbles (m is length of the label), as otherwise it could compress the function
table of the random oracle and/or ideal cipher.
Analysis Our ﬁrst two claims establish that for any pebbling strategy using fewer than n
black pebbles and appropriately bounded red pebbles in each level, a constant fraction of the
ﬁnal layer of nodes V𝓁 inGSuperDR[𝓁] are endpoints of long paths, i.e. of length at least βn,
on unpebbled nodes. Furthermore, each node in this long path individually connects via an
unpebbled path along green (data) edges to an unpebbled node in V𝓁. This detail is important
for showing that the long path must be pebbled in topological order in the black pebbling game
with white/green edges.
45

In rough comparison to the analysis of [14] for the special case of Butterﬂy graphs, our
Claim 12 encompasses their Theorem 2. Claim 13 matches their Proposition 1, but also takes
into account the additional red pebbled nodes (i.e corresponding to any incorrectly derived
labels not caught by the probabilistic proof of correctness). Finally, Claim 14 shows that the
unpebbled paths identiﬁed in Claim 13 require sequential work to pebble (i.e. they must be
pebbled in topological order) in the game with white/green edges, where pebbling can occur in
both forward/reverse directions along green edges (corresponding to encode/decode operations
respectively). This was not shown in the previous analysis [14].
Claim 12. LetGSuperDR[𝓁] be the graph described above with 𝓁 = 1
1−α−δ layers of stacked DRGs
where each layer is connected by a balancedn-superconcentrator and each DRG is (n,α,β ) depth
robust. For any ϵ> 0, if (1−ϵ)n black pebbles are initially placed on GDRSuper[𝓁] with at most
δn additional pebbles on each level Vi∪Gi whereδ <ϵ/2 then there exists an unpebbled path P
of length at least βn ending in an unpebbled node of V𝓁. Moreover, every node in P individually
connects via a path on green edges (i.e. data edges) to an unpebbled node in V𝓁.
Proof. Let ρi denote the number of black pebbles placed on Vi∪Gi. Let Ui denote a set of
unpebbled nodes in Vi of size ui. Let W be any subset of ui nodes in Vi−1. There are ui
vertex disjoint paths starting from ui distinct nodes in W , passing through Gi−1, and ending
in ui distinct nodes in Ui. Since there are at most ρi−1 +δn pebbles on Vi−1∪Gi−1 at least
ui−ρi−1−δ of these paths do not contain any pebbles. Assuming ui−ρi−1−δ > 0, there
exists at least one unpebbled path from W toUi starting at a node w∈W . All these paths are
exclusively along green edges, they do not involve the edges internal to Vi−1 or Vi.
Form a newW′⊆Vi−1 of the same size by removing w and adding a new w′ fromVi−1\W .
Repeating the argument shows the existence of another unpebbled path from W′ toUi. Repeat
the process of removing one of the starting nodes of an unpebbled path fromVi−1 toUi each time
and adding a new node fromVi−1 that has not yet been included. This iterative process continues
1−ui times until there are no more fresh nodes to be included, and removes in sequence 1 −ui
starting nodes of unpebbled paths to Ui. The remaining nodes in the ﬁnal set W′′ contain an
additionalui−ρi−δn unpebbled vertices with unpebbled paths toUi. Thus, the total number of
distinct nodes inVi−1 with unpebbled paths toUi is at leastn−ui+ui−ρi−1−δn =n−ρi−1−δn.
Denote this set by Ui−1 and ui−1 =|Ui−1|. We have shown that ui−1≥n−ρi−1−δn provided
that ui≥ρi−1−δn.
Consider U𝓁 to be the set of all unpebbled nodes in V𝓁. For each i < 𝓁, let Ui be the set of
unpebbled nodes in Vi that are connected via unpebbled paths to the set Ui+1, or equivalently
by induction they are the set of unpebbled nodes in Vi that are connected to U𝓁 via unpebbled
paths. We now prove by induction that |Ui| =ui≥n−ρi−δn using the result of our analysis
above. First, u𝓁 =n−ρ𝓁−δn andρ𝓁≤ (1−ϵ)n−ρ𝓁−1, so u𝓁≥ϵn +ρ𝓁−1−δn. Since ϵ> 2δ by
hypothesis this also shows u𝓁 >ρ 𝓁−1 +δn. Next, assuming that ui+1≥ρi +δn, it follows that
ui≥n−ρi−δn as shown above. Therefore ui−ρi−1−δn≥n−ρi−1−ρi− 2δn≥ (ϵ− 2δ)n> 0.
By induction, every ui≥ρi−1 +δn and ui≥n−ρi−δn.
Equivalently, we have shown that for all i, ρi≥ n−ui−δn. Suppose that u1,...,u 𝓁 < αn.
Then∑𝓁
i=1ρi> (1−α−δ)n𝓁> (1−ϵ)n. This contradicts the hypothesis that∑𝓁
i=1ρi≤ (1−ϵ)n.
Therefore, it must be the case that ui≥αn for some i≤𝓁. Each of these ui unpebbled nodes
in Vi connects via a green edge unpebbled path to U𝓁. Furthermore, among these ui unpebbled
nodes in Vi there is an unpebbled white edge path of length βn because Vi is (n,α,β ) depth
46

robust. The endpoint of this path is still in Ui and is thus connected via an unpebbled green
edge path to U𝓁.
Claim 13. For any ϵ >0, if (1−ϵ)n black pebbles are initially placed on GDRSuper[𝓁] with at
most δn additional pebbles on each level Vi∪Gi where δ < ϵ/4, then there are at least ϵn/2
unpebbled paths of length at least βn ending in ϵn/2 distinct nodes in V𝓁. All nodes along all of
these paths individually connect via green edge paths to an unpebbled node of V𝓁.
Proof. By the same reasoning as Claim (Section 3), if for any conﬁguration ofγn black pebbles on
the graphGSuperDR[𝓁] with δn additional red pebbles in each Vi∪Gi there exists an unpebbled
path of length t ending in an unpebbled node of V𝓁, then for any conﬁguration of γ′n black
pebbles placed on nodes outside V𝓁 and δn red in each level, every set U of (1− (γ−γ′)−δ)n
unpebbled nodes in V𝓁 contains at least one endpoint of a length t unpebbled path. This is
simply because the remaining nodes in V𝓁\U can be entirely pebbled with (γ−γ′)n black and
δn red pebbles for a total usage of γn black pebbles overall.
If (1−ϵ)n black pebbles are placed overall then certainly at most (1−ϵ)n are placed outside
ofV𝓁. Setting ϵ′ =ϵ/2, and further restrictingδ <ϵn/4, we have already shown in Claim 12 that
for any conﬁguration of ϵ′n black pebbles with δn red in each level leaves an unpebbled path of
lengthβn ending inV𝓁. Moreover, all nodes along this path are connected via an unpebbled path
along green edges toV𝓁. Therefore, equating γ = 1−ϵ/2 andγ′ = 1−ϵ, every set of (1−ϵ/2−δ)n
unpebbled nodes in V𝓁 contain an endpoint of an unpebbled path of length βn. There are at
least (1−ϵ−δ)n unpebbled nodes U in V𝓁 for any conﬁguration of the (1 −ϵ)n black pebbles
and red pebbles, therefore at least ϵn/2 nodes in U are the endpoints of length βn unpebbled
paths. To see this, consider subsets of U of size (1−ϵ/2−δ)n. Each subset U′⊆ U contains
the endpoint of a length βn unpebbled path. We iterate the following procedure. Remove one
of these endpoints from U′ and place it in a list of used nodes, then form a new subset of the
same size by adding a node in U\U′ that is not in the used list. After ϵ/2 iterations there are
no more unused nodes and ϵ/2 distinct endpoints have been identiﬁed and added to the list.
Finally we show that for any unpebbled directed path P inGSuperDR[𝓁] of length t consist-
ing of nodes that all connect individually via an unpebbled green edge path to a node in V𝓁,
any pebbling strategy requires at least t rounds to pebble P in the black pebbling game with
white/green edges.
Claim 14. Any unpebbled path P in GSuperDR[𝓁] consisting of nodes that each individually
connect via unpebbled green edge paths to an unpebbled node in V𝓁 requirest rounds to pebble in
the black pebbling game with white/green edges, where edges between two nodes in some Vi are
white and all other edges are green.
Proof. We can break up a pathP into green edge sections and white edge sections. A white edge
section of a path is a directed path within some Vi, whereas green edge sections pass through
someGi. We separately claim that white edge sections and green edge sections must be pebbled
in topological order by any pebbling strategy. Furthermore, if a white edge section in some Vi
precedes a green edge section that connects Vi and Vi+1 then the white edge section must be
pebbled in topological order before the green edge section.
First consider a green edge section Pg⊆ P . Pg is also a segment of an unpebbled green
edge path to a node in V𝓁 because by hypothesis the endpoint of Pg connects via an unpebbled
47

green edge path to a node in V𝓁. We now prove by induction that any unpebbled green edge
path ending in a node in V𝓁 must be pebbled in topological order. This implies that Pg must
be pebbled in topological order. For the base case, there is only one node (a node in V𝓁), and
the claim is trivial. Now suppose that any unpebbled directed path of length t− 1 along green
edges ending in V𝓁 must be pebbled in topological order. Let P′ be a length t unpebbled green
edge path to V𝓁 starting at a node u. P′ breaks into a path P′′ of length t− 1 starting at v and
a node u with a directed green edge to v. The only way to pebble v is either by ﬁrst pebbling
its parents (including u) or by ﬁrst pebbling the targets of all its green edges (assuming it has
at least one green edge target). If v is in V𝓁 then it doesn’t have any green edge targets, and
therefore can only be pebbled via its parents. If v is not in V𝓁 then it has a directed edge to
another vertexw inP′′, hence by hypothesis any strategy must pebble v before w. This implies
u must be pebbled before v, hence P′ must be be pebbled in topological order. We conclude
that Pg must be pebbled in topological order.
Second consider a white edge sectionPw⊆P in someVi that precedes a green edge sectionPg
connecting Vi to Vi+1. By hypothesis all nodes in this path individually connect via unpebbled
green edges paths to Vi+1. Consider any node u along the path. We claim that any pebbling
strategy which pebbles this path does not pebble u via its green edge targets. Since u connects
via an unpebbled green edge path to V𝓁, at least one of its green edge targets is unpebbled.
Furthermore, these two nodes are along an unpebbled green edge path ending in V𝓁 and thus
must be pebbled in topological sequence as already shown. Since each node of Pw cannot be
pebbled via its green edge targets, they are each pebbled via their parent nodes, which include
their predecessors in Pw. Therefore Pw must be pebbled in topological order. Finally, as both
Pw and Pg must be pebbled in topological order and the starting node v of Pg is the ending
node of Pw, it follows that Pw must be pebbled before Pg.
C Mixing Data Labels in Stacked DRGs with Expanders
Cecchetti et. al. introduced a very nice idea, which is to split data across over multiple output
edges, eﬀectively mixing the data encoded by diﬀerent labels and not just the key derivation
dependencies. This works as long as the non sink/source nodes have balanced in-degree and
out-degree (for data edges). Our stacked construction with bipartite expanders naturally has
balanced in-degree and out-degree for edges crossing between layers since Chung’s randomized
construction is a d-regular bipartite expander. Thus, with degree 8 expanders we can break up
the labels into 8 components on every node that are each propagated along a diﬀerent output
edge, just as in the construction using d-balanced n-superconcentrator connectors. This turns
the Stacked-DRG PoS into a PoRep that admits parallelized decoding. The advantage over
ZigZag PoRep is the number of layers in the stacked DRGs with bipartite expanders, for which
we were able to give a tighter bound (by roughly a factor of two). Even the buﬀer size used for
the encoding need not exceed the ﬁle size. The data components along all input edges to a node
on the next level are consumed all at once and space can be freed for the data components of the
newly computed label. The locality of data writes is not preserved and tracking the locations of
stored data label components is more complex, as they are no longer simply stored within the
buﬀer at the node’s index.
48