Proof-of-Personhood: Redemocratizing Permissionless Cryptocurrencies
Maria Borge, Eleftherios Kokoris-Kogias, Philipp Jovanovic,
Linus Gasser, Nicolas Gailly, Bryan Ford
École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne, Switzerland
{maria.borgechavez, eleftherios.kokoriskogias, philipp.jovanovic,
linus.gasser , nicolas.gailly, bryan.ford}@epﬂ.ch
Abstract—Permissionless blockchain-based cryptocurrencies
commonly use proof-of-work (PoW) or proof-of-stake (PoS) to
ensure their security, e.g. to prevent double spending attacks.
However, both approaches have disadvantages: PoW leads to
massive amounts of wasted electricity and re-centralization,
whereas major stakeholders in PoS might be able to create a
monopoly. In this work, we propose proof-of-personhood (PoP),
a mechanism that binds physical entities to virtual identities in
a way that enables accountability while preserving anonymity.
Afterwards we introduce PoPCoin, a new cryptocurrency,
whose consensus mechanism leverages PoP to eliminate the dis-
advantages of PoW and PoS while ensuring security. PoPCoin
leads to a continuously fair and democratic wealth creation
process which paves the way for an experimental basic income
infrastructure.
Keywords-proof-of-personhood, proof-of-work, proof-of-
stake, blockchain, cryptocurrency
I. I NTRODUCTION
One of the main distinguishing features among permis-
sionless cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin [ 11], is the way
they enable open participation in the consensus mechanism
while ensuring resistance against Sybil attacks [ 7]. Bitcoin
and many of its offspring use proof-of-work (PoW) mecha-
nisms [5] to obtain the above properties and allow pseudony-
mous, untrusted, external actors to securely extend the
blockchain. However, PoW requires costly special-purpose
hardware and consumes massive amounts of electricity. This
has led to a re-centralization since only a few privileged
entities who have access to the necessary resources are ca-
pable to mine, whereas regular users who can not afford such
hardware and its maintenance are excluded. Consequently,
the control over the entire system rests in the hands of a
small number of elite users, for example as in Bitcoin; an
undemocratic approach.
Proof-of-stake (PoS), where participants use their assets
(coins) to create (mint) new assets, is another approach
that promises similar properties as PoW but consumes
far less energy. However, PoS is essentially nothing but
a shareholder corporation where the rich again have an
advantage as they possess more assets and thus are able to
mint new coins faster than less-privileged participants. As a
consequence, the (already) rich become even richer; again,
an undemocratic approach.
Our goal in this paper is to create a cryptocurrency that
provides not only resistance against Sybil attacks, but, in
contrast to the above approaches, also ensures a fair and
widely accessible wealth creation process.
In this work we introduce the concept of proof-of-
personhood (PoP) as a ﬁrst step towards our goal, which
combines pseudonym parties [8] with state-of-the-art cryp-
tographic tools like linkable ring signatures [ 10] and collec-
tive signing [ 13] to create so-called PoP-tokens, which are
basically accountable anonymous credentials .
The core idea of pseudonym parties is to verify real
people, thereby linking physical and virtual identities and
providing a basis to prevent adversaries from mounting
Sybil attacks. Pseudonym parties are, as the name suggests,
parties which can be organized basically by anyone, from
governments to non-proﬁt organizations, or companies to
small groups of people in their own village. The participants
agree on a set of rules such as specifying a place and
time. All parties are recorded for transparency, but attendees
are free to hide their identities by dressing as they wish,
including hiding their faces for anonymity. By the end of
the party each attendee will obtain exactly one cryptographic
identity token that represents both a physical and virtual
identity without revealing sensitive information.
The proof-of-individuality (PoI) project [ 4] uses similar
ideas to create anti-Sybil-tokens by relying on virtual (video)
pseudonym parties and Ethereum smart contracts. The PoI-
approach, however, has several (security) disadvantages: it
does not provide the same security properties as physical
pseudonym parties, e.g., it needs to be ensure that videos
show an actual livestream and not a recording; it relies on
the security of the Ethereum blockchain and in turn on
Ethereum’s PoW foundation, and thus cannot be used on
its own to bootstrap a secure cryptocurrency; ﬁnally, the
reliance on Ethereum introduces a non-negligible amount of
complexity in terms of implementability.
After deﬁning Proof-of-Personhood, we then introduce
PoPCoin, a cryptocurrency that leverages PoP to move
from Bitcoin’s ultimately unsuccessful “one CPU one vote”
decentralization principle to a minting mechanism that em-
bodies a one PoP-token one vote principle. PoPCoin provides
a fair decentralized wealth creation mechanism tied to actual

people, ensuring that every participant has the same chance
of being chosen to create new assets, and essentially imple-
ments an instance of basic income. The value of that income
is volatile and not speciﬁed by anyone since the whole
currency will “ﬂoat” to whatever represents the collective
value that the currency is providing to its population of users.
We suggest two different approaches to tweak existing
cryptocurrencies to create PoPCoin instances. The ﬁrst is
a simple substitution of PoS with PoP where the system
randomly selects the next minter from the list of PoP-
token holders, while the second extends ByzCoin [ 9] in
order to remove PoW but preserve the same performance
beneﬁts. A PoP-token contains the necessary information to
prove that it was issued at a pseudonym party. State-of-the-
art cryptographic building blocks enables the detection and
prevention of double-spending attempts using PoP-tokens.
II. B ACKGROUND
A. Collective Signing (CoSi)
Scalable collective signing [ 13] enables an authority to
request the validation of a statement by a decentralized group
of witnesses. The resulting collective signatures are compa-
rable in size and veriﬁcation cost to individual signatures.
The result of a collective signing (CoSi) protocol run is a
standard Schnorr signature that anyone can verify efﬁciently
against the corresponding aggregate public key.
B. Linkable Ring Signatures
A ring signature [ 12] is a type of signature that can be
created by any member of a group of users. The public keys
of the group members form a so-called anonymity set . One
of the security properties of ring signatures is that it is in-
feasible to determine which of the keys from the anonymity
set was used to compute a given signature. Linkable ring
signatures [ 10] introduce the notion of signature linkability
to a traditional ring signature scheme, by allowing to identify
whether two signatures were issued by the same member
without uncovering the member’s identity.
C. ByzCoin
ByzCoin [ 9] is a Bitcoin-like cryptocurrency having a
consensus mechanism inspired by the well-known PBFT al-
gorithm [ 6]. ByzCoin leverages CoSi to reduce the message
overhead in comparison to traditional PBFT approaches and
uses Bitcoin’s PoW mechanism to offer open-membership
and Sybil attack resistance. Thanks to these modiﬁca-
tions ByzCoin enables realization of a strong-consistency
blockchain system that scales to hundreds of nodes while
improving transaction rate.
D. RandHound
RandHound [ 14] is a distributed protocol that provides
scalable, unbiasable, publicly-veriﬁable randomness against
Byzantine adversaries. RandHound is a client-server proto-
col where a group of cooperating servers provide random-
ness to a client.
III. D ESIGN OF POP: P ROOF -OF-P ERSONHOOD
The ﬁrst and most important step of PoPCoin is to bind
the coin minting mechanism with real people, so that each
person can mint new coins at the same rate. We achieve this
property by introducing the notion of proof-of-personhood.
Proof-of-personhood is based on the concept of account-
able pseudonyms [ 8]. The idea is to link virtual and physical
identities in a real-world gathering (e.g., a party) while
preserving users’ anonymity. At the party every attendee is
issued one and only one proof-of-personhood token, without
their needing to disclose any identifying information.
A. Assumptions and Threat Model
A pseudonym party is organized by a set of volunteer
organizers. Organizers might be a group of independent
persons, part of an institution or an entity. In any case
organizers are selected via a process that is external and
independent from the pseudonym party. Each organizer is
an independent person in charge of an independent server,
henceforth denoted a conode, which together form a collec-
tive authority or cothority.
We assume an anytrust model in which attendees trust
only that at least one organizer and one conode is trust-
worthy, that is they are uncompromised and not colluding;
we do not require that the untrusted organizers and conodes
are known. Ideally, in the future different pseudonym parties
will be organized by different organizers allowing attendees
to select the pseudonym party that they trust most.
The party occurs at a certain place and date, established
by the organizers. Attendees are allowed to enter the party
during a period of time; once this period ends no one is
allowed to enter. However, for safety reasons anyone is free
to leave at any moment.
B. Pseudonym Party Setup
At some point before the party, organizers gather in order
to establish the main details of the event which include: the
place p, the date d, the expected times of start and end of
the party tstart and tend, the barrier time at which tokens
will start to be issued tbarrier , and the PoP-token’s expiration
date texp. After ﬁxing these parameters, organizers exchange
their public keys orgP ubKey and select a group of observers
to record the party and produce a video ﬁle f ilevideo.
The observers are a different set of people selected, via an
independent process, by the organizers. The tapes recorded
by observers reinforce transparency and, e.g., help to capture
the moment in which an attendee attempted to get more
than one PoP-token or when an organizer refused to issue
a PoP-token to an attendee. Afterwards, organizers create
a conﬁguration ﬁle f ileconf ig, that contains: p, d, tstart,

tend, tbarrier , texp, orgP ubKey and f ilevideo. Following this
process, organizers establish a test period in which they
set up the environment for the party, including the servers,
to do a set of dry runs without actual attendees. After
thorough testing, organizers publish the conﬁguration ﬁle
and advertise the pseudonym party.
Once a person has decided to attend the pseudonym
party he or she downloads f ileconf ig, where the party
details are available and creates his own public and private
keys. Additionally, the public key used for the pseudonym
party should not be used on any other service that may
compromise the attendee’s anonymity. In order to ensure this
we propose using f ileconf ig for the creation of an ephemeral
public key, to be used only at the party. The ephemeral public
key will be used as the basis for the PoP-token. We propose
two options to create these keys:
1) An attendee downloads third-party software, similar to
a Bitcoin paper wallet, which takes the conﬁguration
ﬁle as an input and outputs a ﬁle containing: an
ephemeral public key, a public key, and a private key.
2) An attendee downloads third-party software, a mobile
application. The software receives the conﬁguration ﬁle
as an input and outputs QR codes presented to the
mobile application.
C. Pseudonym Party Operation
On the start of a pseudonym party, doors open and atten-
dees are allowed to enter the place for a certain period of
time. Once that period of time has expired the barrier point
has been reached and nobody is allowed to enter whereas
anyone may leave. Shortly after this point organizers also
start the PoP-token issuing process.
For this purpose, organizers and attendees form a line
and each organizer conﬁrms one-by-one each attendee’s
personhood by storing the attendee’s ephemeral public key
and marking the attendee with an ink stamp. After visiting
all organizers, attendees enter a separate room and they are
not allowed to go back to the previous room. The ink stamp
is a visual conﬁrmation, aiding organizers to recognize the
attendee’s that have already visited the ﬁrst line, preventing
an attendee from going back to the ﬁrst room and obtaining
a second PoP-token.
D. Pseudonym Party End
At the end of the pseudonym party the organizers stop
collecting ephemeral public keys and enable their conodes
to sign a party transcript, which is publicly available. The
party transcript contains the following parameters: Hash
of the video ﬁles recorded by the observers f ilevideo,
list of attendees’ public keys attP ubKey. Each PoP-token
is composed of the attendee’s ephemeral public key, the
attendee’s private key and the list of attendee’s public keys
available in the party transcript.
Figure 1: Interaction between components
IV. P OPC OIN
Proof-of-personhood can be used as a defense against
Sybil attacks and as a membership mechanism for achieving
consensus, hence it is a suitable mechanism to be used in
blockchain systems that use PoW, PoS, or a combination of
the two. In this section we describe two approaches to use
PoP in blockchain systems and our vision for the deployment
of PoPCoin in the real world.
A. Implementing PoPCoin
The integration and implementation of PoP in current
blockchain systems is divided into two phases: Setup
and Minting. The Setup phase involves carrying out the
pseudonym party and validating the PoP-tokens. First, a
set of organizers arranges a pseudonym party in which
they issue PoP-tokens to be used for minting in blockchain
systems. Organizers must follow the process presented in
Section III. Once the party ends, organizers hand the party
transcript to all attendees and upload it to a set of trusted
servers for a period of time, e.g., one week, during which
attendees that want to become minters are allowed to au-
thenticate their PoP-tokens, following the process presented
in Section V. After a successful authentication process an
attendee deposits a public key to identify him or her and
become an eligible minter. At the end of the validation
process organizers generate a minting-pool formed by the
public keys of attendees that have successfully authenticated
their PoP-tokens.
In the minting phase all minters who are part of the
minting-pool are eligible to create new blocks and as a
result mint new coins. During this phase the last N minters
run RandHound [ 14] with the last minter behaving as the
client. If he fails to generate randomness, he is deprived
of his block-reward. This randomness is used to select the
member of the minting pool that is allowed to create the

next block. All minters are equally eligible, since each of
them owns only one token. Minters repeat the process every
M minutes. If a minter fails to announce a new block within
the M minutes, then RandHound is run again to select a new
one. The RandHound output contains the last randomness it
issued and if a block was created, as a result there is a clear
ordering of minters and there is only one eligible minter
at any given time. For this reason forks cannot occur by
accident. If a minter is caught extending two chains, he is
punished, resolving the nothing-at-stake problem of PoS.
As an improvement over the minting phase we propose
the use of ByzCoin [ 9], a protocol that achieves determin-
istic consensus in blockchain systems. ByzCoin deﬁnes a
sliding share window, of ﬁxed size W , in which shares are
represented by blocks. Each round of ByzCoin runs among
the share holders of the last W blocks. In this scenario
minters of the last W blocks, i.e., the consensus group, run
RandHound and randomly select the next minter to become
a member of the window for W rounds. Fig. 1 presents
a diagram describing the interaction of the system. After
the membership is deﬁned the protocol continues the same
way as ByzCoin, by collectively signing the microblocks the
leader (who is the last minter) proposes.
B. Deploying PoPCoin in the Real World
Although PoPCoin presents multiple interesting technical
challenges, it is only fair to discuss its interaction with the
real world, as it is based on the real world limitation of
owning only one body.
We envision PoPCoin to start as a local cryptocurrency
similar to multiple efforts like Ithaca Hours [ 2], Berk-
Shares [ 1], or the Leman [ 3]. At such a small scale it
can be feasible to have one pseudonym party every few
months which is easily accessible from the community that
uses PoPCoin. Also this small scale will allow the coin
to quickly evolve without the need for “permission” or
ﬁnancial support from government or industry, and without
close cooperation from any other pseudonym party group.
Those different PoPCoin currencies would form completely
separate blockchains with separate currencies, which might
eventually be tradeable with each other and/or with existing
currencies. Nevertheless their value will ﬂoat to different
levels depending on a variety of factors like the level of trust
the community has on the currency or it’s wider adoption.
This local form of PoPCoin would be decentralized in at
least two respects: within a given group or PoPCoin instance,
it is decentralized among the organizers and users in that
group; but also globally, it is decentralized because all such
local PoPCoin instances are in principle independent – one
might fail completely (due to a successful attack or merely
disinterest within the local community), but that will not
prevent other local PoPCoin groups elsewhere succeeding
and being reliable and secure.
If this experiment succeeds and gains enough traction
these local PoPCoin groups can eventually federate and
standardize enough so that they can merge their currencies
into one larger currency shared by many groups, in which
any person can show up to any cooperating pseudonym party
anywhere and get one (but only one) PoP-token good for one
minting share within this larger federation. A possible way
to scale the PoP-token issuing process is for organizers to
throw simultaneous pseudonym parties in different regions
at the same or close enough times such that it is infeasible
for a person to attend both, e.g., because physically traveling
from Europe to the US west coast within a handful of hours
is infeasible or because the expected gain is less than the
cost of traveling; their frequency depends on coordination
among local PoPCoin groups.
V. T ECHNICAL AND SECURITY CHALLENGES
In this section we discuss some security challenges that
need to be addressed in order to correctly implement a
pseudonym party not only for PoPCoin, but also for creating
Sybil resistance applications like anonymous but accountable
e-voting, editing of a wiki or participating in online forums.
A. Public and Private Key Generation
The ﬁrst challenge is trusting the attendees to generate
their public-private key pair, especially to somehow ensure
that they will not use the same public key in another service,
thus compromising their anonymity. We propose a non-
standard form of public-private key pair creation in which
the main output is an ephemeral public key that would be
used just for the party, but if it is used in other service
it would not compromise user’s anonymity. First, attendees
generate their private key x and public key X = Gx using
Ed25519, where G is the generator of the elliptic curve
group. Next, attendees download the f ileconf ig and hash
it into a point in the elliptic curve H(f ileconf ig) = H.
After, attendees generate ephemeral public key using the
point H obtained in the previous step, X ′ = H x. Finally,
attendees obtain (x; X′) and (x; X), the ﬁrst tuple contains
the ephemeral public key and it is the one to be used at the
party. The key generation process occurs on the user side.
The process described above intends to preserve user privacy
by generating an ephemeral public key for every party.
B. PoP-token Authentication
Applications and services need to authenticate and vali-
date PoP-tokens, that is, check that the token was generated
at a pseudonym party, its expiration date and its unique
usage (per service). To achieve this goal we propose the
use of a linkable ring signature scheme [ 10] as an aid in
PoP-token authentication mechanism. This signature scheme
links signatures (in a particular service) issued by the same
user by means of a tag, i.e. the veriﬁcation process of a

signature outputs a tag, a signature produced by a particular
user always produces the same tag.
The services that rely on PoP-token-based authentica-
tion to create new accounts are required to use the party
transcript, handed at the end of the party and it is also
publicly available (in trusted servers provided by organizers).
Additionally they must keep a simple database to store
the tags generated during the signature veriﬁcation process.
When a user requests authentication to a service using his
PoP-token the service requests the party transcript , which
allows the service to match the PoP-token to a particular
party and check the expiration date of the PoP-token. Once
the service veriﬁes the token validity it must ask the user
to sign a message (e.g., “empty message”) within a certain
context (e.g., www.service.com). Next, the user must reply
to the service with the signature (both are outputs of the
signature process). The service veriﬁes the signature (outputs
a tag), if the signature is authentic the service checks the
presence of the tag in the database. In the case of a ﬁrst use
PoP-token the tag is not in the database, then the service
stores the tag. However, if the tag is already registered in
the database the service refuses authentication to the user,
because the PoP-token has already been used to create an
account in the service, hence preventing Sybil attacks.
Acknowledgments
This research was supported in part by DHS grant
FA8750-16-2-0034, and by the AXA Research Fund.
REFERENCES
[1] Berkshares inc. local currency. http://www.berkshares.
org/.
[2] Ithaca hours community currency. http://www.
ithacahours.com/.
[3] Le léman votre monnaie. http://monnaie-leman.org/.
[4] Proof of individuality. http://proofoﬁndividuality.
online. Consulted on October 2016.
[5] A. Back. Hashcash – A Denial of Service Counter-
Measure, Aug. 2002.
[6] M. Castro et al. Practical byzantine fault tolerance. In
OSDI, volume 99, pages 173–186, 1999.
[7] J. R. Douceur. The sybil attack. In International
Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems , pages 251–260.
Springer, 2002.
[8] B. Ford and J. Strauss. An ofﬂine foundation for online
accountable pseudonyms. In Proceedings of the 1st
Workshop on Social Network Systems , pages 31–36.
ACM, 2008.
[9] E. K. Kogias et al. Enhancing Bitcoin security and per-
formance with strong consistency via collective sign-
ing. In 25th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX
Security 16) , pages 279–296. USENIX Association,
2016.
[10] J. K. Liu et al. Linkable spontaneous anonymous
group signature for ad hoc groups. In Australasian
Conference on Information Security and Privacy , pages
325–335. Springer, 2004.
[11] S. Nakamoto. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash
system, 2008.
[12] R. L. Rivest et al. How to leak a secret. In Inter-
national Conference on the Theory and Application of
Cryptology and Information Security , pages 552–565.
Springer, 2001.
[13] E. Syta et al. Keeping Authorities “Honest or Bust”
with Decentralized Witness Cosigning . In 37th IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy , May 2016.
[14] E. Syta et al. Scalable bias-resistant distributed ran-
domness. In 38th IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy, May 2017. Preprint: http://eprint.iacr.org/
2016/1067.