The Social Cost of Cheap Pseudonyms
Eric J. Friedman∗
Department of Economics, Rutgers University
New Brunswick, NJ 08903.
Paul Resnick
University of Michigan School of Information
550 East University Avenue
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1092
August 11, 1999
Abstract
We consider the problems of societal norms for cooperation and reputation when it
is possible to obtain “cheap pseudonyms”, something which is becoming quite common
in a wide variety of interactions on the Internet. This introduces opportunities to mis-
behave without paying reputational consequences. A large degree of cooperation can
still emerge, through a convention in which newcomers “pay their dues” by accepting
poor treatment from players who have established positive reputations. One might
hope for an open society where newcomers are treated well, but there is an inherent
social cost in making the spread of reputations optional. We prove that no equilib-
rium can sustain signiﬁcantly more cooperation than the dues-paying equilibrium in
a repeated random matching game with a large number of players in which players
have ﬁnite lives and the ability to change their identities, and there is a small but
nonvanishing probability of mistakes.
Although one could remove the ineﬃciency of mistreating newcomers by disallowing
anonymity, this is not practical or desirable in a wide variety of transactions. We discuss
the use of entry fees, which permits newcomers to be trusted but excludes some players
with low payoﬀs, thus introducing a diﬀerent ineﬃciency. We also discuss the use
of free but unreplaceable pseudonyms, and describe a mechanism which implements
them using standard encryption techniques, which could be practically implemented
in electronic transactions.
∗The authors would like to thank Roger Klein, Jeﬀ MacKie-Mason, Rich Mclean, Hiroki Tsurumi,
and workshop participants at Michigan, Rutgers and Stonybrook for helpful conversations and com-
ments. Email: friedman@econ.rutgers.edu and presnick@umich.edu. The latest version is available at
∆http://econ.rutgers.edu/home/friedman/research.htm#wpapers
1

1 Introduction
One of the fundamental questions of social theory is the conditions which facilitate coop-
eration. Repetition and reputation are two of the most useful features. Repetition causes
people to cooperate in the present in order to avoid negative consequences in future interac-
tions with the same people. Reputations spread information about people’s behavior, so that
expectations of future interactions can inﬂuence behavior even if the future interactions may
be with diﬀerent people than those in the present. The ways in which reputations spread can
aﬀect their ability to inﬂuence behavior, and it is especially interesting to consider situations
where people exercise some control over the spread of their own reputations, a situation that
is common on the Internet.
The Internet has spawned numerous social and business environments that allow frequent
and meaningful interactions among people who are relative strangers. This leads to many
problems and properties that do not usually arise in other social settings. However, the
pliability of the Internet as a social structure also allows for a large degree of “engineering”
which is also more diﬃcult in standard social settings, allowing for the solution of many
of these problems, and providing a fertile ground for the application of many tools from
economics and game theory.1
The key aspect of reputation on the Internet that does not typically arise in non-electronic
settings is the ability to easily change one’s identity; whereas in real life this is a complex
process (often involving national governments and cosmetic surgery) on the Internet an iden-
tity change may require just a few keystrokes. 2 Thus, a person has a choice of interacting
1For example, recent applications include the economics of information (Varian, 1997), economic aspects
of evaluations (Avery, Resnick and Zeckhauser, 1999), aspects of competition (Bakos and Brynjolfsson,
1998), cost sharing (Moulin and Shenker (1992), Herzog, Shenker and Estrin, (1997)) and various properties
of learning (Friedman and Shenker, 1998).
2Many games, auction sites, and interactive forums allow users to choose a pseudonym when they register.
Even services that identify users based on their email addresses do not prevent identity changes, since
users can easily acquire new email addresses through free services like Hotmail. Beyond name changes,
the Internet enables completely anonymous interactions. For example, anonymizing intermediaries such as
remailers and proxy servers can exchange messages between parties without revealing either one’s identity to
the other (Goldschlag, Reed, and Syverson 1999, Rubin and Reiter 1999). There are even techniques using
cryptography that allow for electronic payments where the buyer’s identity is untraceable (Schneier, 1996,
p. 139-147).
2

anonymously (by changing identiﬁers constantly) or maintaining a persistent identity. This
case is intermediate between persistent identities and totally anonymous interactions. In
eﬀect, the option of anonymity turns the transfer of reputation information into a strate-
gic variable, controlled by each player, in contrast to previous work (Kandori (1992), and
Milgrom, North and Weingast (1990)) where reputation transfer is limited but not under
players’ control.3
With name changes, people can easily shed negative reputations. 4 This makes it natural
to distrust newcomers, since they may really be people who have just changed identiﬁers.
There can still be a fair amount of cooperation, however, as people will want to develop
positive reputations. For example, the on-line auction service eBay (www.ebay.com) main-
tains a “Feedback Forum” for buyers and sellers to make comments about each other, after
a trade is completed. 5 As analyzed by Peter Kollock (1998), people go out of their way to
accumulate positive comments and, once they have accumulated them, to avoid negative
comments.6
Newcomers can overcome initial distrust by accepting bad treatment for a while, a form
of dues paying that is suﬃcient to discourage participants from changing identiﬁers. But
suspicion of newcomers is socially ineﬃcient, especially in free-ﬂowing environments with
lots of newcomers: it would be more eﬃcient to trust newcomers until they proved untrust-
worthy, if that did not provide incentives for participants to misbehave and then change
identiﬁers. The distrust can be eliminated entirely through a subtle punishment strategy,
where newcomers are distrusted only if a veteran player in the previous period did some-
3Tadelis (1999) considers an interesting model where reputation transfer is a strategic variable but where
performance is not. In that model, names may be traded from higher skill to lower skill players, decreasing
but not eliminating the signaling value of reputations. By contrast, we are interested in situations where
reputations serve not as signals of underlying skill but as motivators for good performance.
4On the Internet, nobody knows that yesterday you were a dog, and therefore should be in the doghouse
today.
5Recognizing the importance of persistent reputations, eBay oﬀers an easy name-changing facility, but a
person’s feedback comments follow such name changes. This attempt to limit reputation shedding may be
futile, however, since a person can easily acquire a new email address and then re-register with no trace of
the earlier comments.
6One participant reported that after an accidental snafu, he received a check from the seller for more
than the purchase price of the item he had bought, along with a request not to enter a negative comment.
[David Richardson, personal communication, January 1998.]
3

thing wrong. That strategy is quite brittle, however, in the face of either a few malicious
participants7 or occasional mistakes (trembles), such as typing the wrong key by accident.
In fact, with either malicious players or occasional trembles, we prove that there is no way
to achieve substantially more cooperation in equilibrium than that achieved by distrusting
all newcomers. Thus, the distrust of newcomers is an inherent social cost of easy identity
changes.8 Recently, many health support forums have been shaken by people who pretend
to have severe illnesses and other problems. Once found out such people often reappear on
the same or a diﬀerent forum with a new identity and repeat the process. Some groups have
developed defenses involving distrust of newcomers, but these interventions impose other
costs. Alice Grady (1998) reports:
In another scam that dragged on for months last year, a girl [Kim] who said
she was 15 communicated on line with parents of premature infants. The 400
or so members in the virtual support group had babies who were or had been
critically ill and had spent months in the hospital. Some of the infants died, and
some who survived were expected to suﬀer lifelong disabilities. . .
Regardless of what drove Kim, her behavior had a chilling eﬀect on a group
that had been trusting and closely knit. Some parents expressed feelings of
betrayal, and many stopped posting messages. People in the group agreed to
provide information so a coordinator could verify that they really were parents
of preemies. Some newcomers were put oﬀ by the atmosphere of suspicion.
Unfortunately, the obvious solution of disallowing anonymity is problematic for a variety
of reasons, from questions of civil liberties to the practical eﬀects on information exchange.
On-line support forums for diseases such as AIDS could not function without some guarantees
of anonymity, in order to avoid negative consequences from people they know in real life ﬁnd-
ing out about their condition. On a lighter side, many users of gaming network sites such as
chess (chess.onenet.net), backgammon (www.netgammon.com), bridge (www.okbridge.com),
7If it were possible to collapse an entire social order with a single malicious act, then it is hard to imagine
that some player would not topple the system for ‘fun.’ Consider such common entities on the Internet as
viruses and worms.
8This is analogous to a model of long-term relationships where individuals have a choice at each period
whether to continue the current relationship or start a new one (the analog of adopting a new identiﬁer in
our analysis). Watson (1999) describes a slow-start equilibrium where partners play for low stakes initially
and gradually trust more over time. The disparity between the expected future trade value with an existing
partner and a new partner encourages good behavior with existing partners.
4

go (igs.nuri.net) or quake (www.idsoftware.com) prefer anonymity, while role playing games
depend fundamentally on the disassociation between real identities and roles played. De-
spite the disassociation with real identities, information about the past behavior of players
is important in choosing partners who play at a similar skill level, have a compatible sense
of sportsmanship, and have fast network connections. Thus, we must encourage players to
maintain a persistent identiﬁer within each social arena without relying on the veriﬁcation
and revelation of true identities.
An obvious candidate is the use of entry fees (associated with each personal identiﬁer).
One commonly used procedure is a time consuming registration process; while such a pro-
cedure may encourage cooperation, it is clearly wasteful. Using monetary registration fees
entails no such loss of eﬃciency, as they are pure transfers, but in a heterogeneous environ-
ment may prevent players from using the system, which is clearly ineﬃcient as these systems
are essentially public goods with zero or eﬀectively negative marginal cost (due to network
externalities).
The conventional wisdom is that there is an inherent tradeoﬀ between anonymity and
accountability. For example, several articles in a special issue of The Information Society
emphasize that there are real beneﬁts to anonymity, despite the costs that come from re-
duced accountability (Kling et al 1999, Marx 1999, Nissenbaum 1999). The consensus of
a AAAS sponsored conference, as reported by Teich et al (1999), was that the tradeoﬀs
should sometimes be resolved in favor of anonymity and thus that regulatory regimes should
strive to preserve the possibility of anonymity. We show, however, that it is not necessary
to choose: there is an intermediate form of anonymity that minimizes the social costs from
loss of accountability.
We propose a system of anonymous certiﬁcates in which, for each diﬀerent social arena, a
person is given a single identiﬁer that is unrelated to the person’s true identity; however, the
certiﬁcate provider guarantees that each person will only be granted a single certiﬁcate (in
each arena). We call these once-in-a-lifteime identiﬁers. A player using a once-in-a-lifetime
identiﬁer eﬀectively commits to having his reputation spread through the arena. Given the
5

option, players would choose to make such commitments and thus achieve the same level
of cooperation that would be achieved playing under their true identiﬁers. If, for example,
a collection of support groups deﬁned itself as a single arena, then a malicious intruder
could disrupt only one group; exclusion from that group could lead to exclusion from the
others. We show that such certiﬁcates can be constructed with a large degree of security
using standard encryption techniques.
The paper is organized as follows. In the next section we present the basic model. Sec-
tion 3 considers the eﬀects of a fraction ϵ of malicious players who thrive on sowing discord
among the other players and the related scenario where each player trembles with proba-
bility ϵ. Section 4 discusses monetary entry fees. Finally, section 5 presents the certiﬁcate
mechanism for once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁers.
2 The Basic Model
We consider an inﬁnite, synchronously repeated game with periods t∈ T ={0, 1,... }. In
each period, there are M active players. At the end of each period αM exit (e.g., their
interests change and they no longer visit the web site or participate in that newsgroup) and
the same number of new players enter. (Assume that α∈ (0, 1) and αM is an integer.)
Players are labeled by i∈ Z+, where players 1..M enter at t = 0. In each period, current
players are matched at random (uniformly) to play a prisoner’s dilemma 9 with payoﬀs:
C D
C 1, 1 −1, 2
D 2,−1 0, 0
At the beginning of each period, active players may have the choice of continuing to
play under their current identiﬁers or getting new ones. (When obtaining a new identiﬁer is
possible, it is costless; we discuss entry fees in Section 4.) When players are paired, each is
9While some of the real-world interactions we discuss, such as health support forums, are not pure
prisoner’s dilemmas, they do contain opportunities for either selﬁsh behavior that hurts others or for more
cooperative, mutually beneﬁcal behavior. The prisoner’s dilemma is a useful model because it places the
incentives for choosing between these behaviors in stark relief.
6

told only the identiﬁer currently being used by the other. Thus, a player who acquires a new
identiﬁer is indistinguishable (to all the other players) from a new entrant to the system.
We assume that the system keeps a public history of which identiﬁers were paired in
previous periods and the actions taken by the players controlling those identiﬁers. 10 Thus,
when two players meet, each can see the opponent’s complete history, which includes not
only the actions played by the opponent, but also those by the opponent’s opponents, ad
inﬁnitum. To model this simply, we assume that in period t the entire history of play,
ht
s∈Ht
s, is common knowledge, whereht
s is the pairing of identiﬁers and the actions taken in
time periods prior to t.11 Each player also knows her own personal history of name changes,
ht
i∈Ht
i, where ht
i is the history of identiﬁers used by player i in periods prior to t.
We will also assume that there is an exogenous signal q, which is uniformly distributed
on [0, 1]. This signal is revealed at the beginning of period t before players choose their
actions.12 Player i’s strategy in period t is a mapping st
i : Ht
s×Ht
i×Ht
E→ ∆({C,D}),
where Ht
E is the history of exogenous signals up to and including qt. Let S be the set of all
such (mixed behavioral) strategies.
A player’s payoﬀ for a strategysi is given by the total (undiscounted) expected payoﬀ. For
example, if playeri enters in periodb(i) then her payoﬀ from strategy vectors, which includes
her own strategy and strategies for each of the other players, is given by ui(s) =
∑b(i)+l(i)
t=b(i) ut
i
whereut
i is her payoﬀ in period t andl(i) is the “age” of player i when she exits the system.
10In our scenario, it is not possible to have explicit norms of behavior that are centrally enforced. It
may be fairly easy, however, to publish the history, and leave the enforcement up to the actual players. In
practice, this history is captured either by monitoring play, such as on the Internet Go Server (igs.nuri.net),
or by gathering explicit feedback from participants about each other, as on the Internet Auction site eBay
(www.ebay.com). Wherever possible, explicit and centrally enforceable rules of behavior should be applied,
and then one can interpret our analysis as modeling the part of the interaction for which such rules are not
centrally enforceable.
11This assumption is made to simplify notation; the equilibrium strategies that we are interested in will
use far less information. Also, this assumption allows us to disentangle the eﬀects caused by name changes
from those generated by imperfect transfer of information about the history of play. The question of the
reliability of player reported information is quite complex and beyond the scope of this paper. For example,
eBay founder Pierre Omidyar exhorted users to give negative feedback when it was warranted (Omidyar,
1998), apparently because users hesitated to give negative feedback in fear that it would be reciprocated.
12Once we introduce trembles (Section 3) there will be no need for exogenous signals, as players would be
able to correlate on the history of trembles. Nonetheless, we will maintain the exogenous signals to simplify
the presentation.
7

Note that the expected lifetime of a player is 1 /α so we deﬁne the normalized (per-period)
payoﬀ to be αE[ui(s)].13 We will consider only sequential equilibria, for which we use the
standard deﬁnition (e.g., Fudenberg and Tirole (1991)).
Our benchmark for the amount of cooperation will be the average among all the players
of the expected per-period payoﬀ,
V (s) = lim inf
N→∞
∑N
i=0αE[ui(s)]
N
Thus, if every player cooperates in every period then V = 1 while if every player defects in
every period then V = 0.
2.1 Fixed identiﬁers
If players are unable to change their identiﬁers (eg., if they must reveal their real-world
names), the public history makes total cooperation a sustainable equilibrium. For example,
suppose every player adopts the following localized punishment strategy (LPS). LPS calls for
a player to play C against a newcomer or against a veteran who complied with LPS in the
previous period, and D against a veteran who deviated in the previous period. For α≤ 1/2,
V (LPS ) = 1 when identiﬁers are ﬁxed.
2.2 Free identiﬁer changes
If players can change their identiﬁers freely, LPS is no longer an equilibrium, because a
player can defect, then acquire a new identiﬁer and be treated as a newcomer, against
whom other players cooperate. Another strategy, however, does lead to total cooperation
in equilibrium. That strategy, the “public grim trigger strategy” (PGTS – a generalized
punishment strategy), has every player defect if there has ever been a defection in an earlier
period, and otherwise cooperate. As long as α≤ 1/2, cooperation is the best strategy while
everyone else is cooperating and defection is the best strategy if a defection triggers everyone
else to start defecting. Thus, PGTS is a sequential equilibrium. Forα≤ 1/2,V (PGTS ) = 1.
13Note also that 1 −α plays a role analogous to a discount factor, although this model does not include
an explicit discount factor.
8

Intuitively, however PGTS seems fragile and unrealistic. We now introduce a new element
into the model that highlights the fragility of PGTS.
3 Malicious Players and Trembles
Suppose there are a few malicious players who like to see others suﬀer and thus will choose
actions that cause a general increase in the level of defection. Malicious players make up
a small but non-zero fraction of the population, ϵ. Alternatively, consider the problem of
occasional mistakes by well-meaning players. These may occur from errors of judgment,
unstable network connections (a player who is faring badly in a backgammon game may quit
the game because of a lost network connection, which could appear to the opponent as poor
sportsmanship) or simply because a person mistakenly hits the wrong key on a keyboard. Let
ϵ be the probability that when a player attempts to choose an action, that she trembles and
plays the other action. In the presence of trembles, a strategy deﬁnes the deliberate choices
that players make, conditioned on the observed actions of others. Trembles are randomly
determined after their deliberate choices, so that a player who deliberately chooses D will
actually play C with probability ϵ, and vice-versa.14
In our model, we need some exogenous variability in the number of new identiﬁers each
period, to eliminate unrealistic strategies that trigger based on the number of new identiﬁers.
The variability could come from variation in the number of players leaving the game (so long
as the number of arrivals matches the number of departures). Instead, we assume that at the
end of each period each player ‘loses’ his identiﬁer by accident with probability ϵ and must
start again as an entrant with a new identiﬁer. There is no reason why the probability of
losing one’s identiﬁer should be equal to that of trembling; we simply assume this to reduce
notation.
The eﬀects of malicious players are similar to those for trembles, since each introduces a
few defections that are not chosen by normal players. In the remainder of this paper we focus
14Note that when there are ﬁnite trembles, this game is essentially a repeated game with imperfect public
information (Green and Porter 1984, Abreu, Pearce, and Stachetti, 1990), i.e., players cannot always tell
whether defections were deliberate or caused by trembles.
9

on the model with trembles. The analysis for the game with malicious players is analogous.15
We will be interested in the social welfare for ﬁxedϵ and large populations. Let V∗(ϵ,M )
be the supremum of V (s) over all sequential equilibria, with population M in each period
and the probability of a tremble ϵ and probability of a lost identiﬁer ϵ. Deﬁne the “stable
value” of the game to be
SV = lim
ϵ→0
lim
M→∞
V∗(ϵ,M ).
Thus, the stable value is the maximal expected per-period social welfare when the population
is large in relation to the error rate. 16
To simplify presentation and analysis, we will rely on order notation. Thus, the statement
g(ϵ) = O(f(ϵ)) implies that there exists some c > 0 such that for ϵ suﬃciently small,
|g(ϵ)|≤ cf(ϵ). Similarly, for M, where we are interested in large values, g(M) = O(f(M))
implies that there exists some c> 0 such that for M suﬃciently large,|g(M)|≤ cf(M).
3.1 Fixed Identiﬁers
First, consider the case in which players can not change their identiﬁers. The LPS strategy,
where players defect against players who deviated in the previous period, is an equilibrium,
with no deliberate defection.
Proposition 1 For all α < .3, M > 1 and ϵ < .1, LPS is an equilibrium with V (s) =
1−O(ϵ). More precisely, V (s)≥ 1− 2ϵ.
15That a small probability of trembles or malicious players can have important eﬀects is well known. For
example, the evolutionary behavior of the prisoner’s dilemma is very diﬀerent with trembles than without
(Nowak and Sigmund, 1993) while the eﬀect of a few “atypical players” can have dramatic eﬀects on the set
of equilibria (Kreps et. al., 1982).
16Note that the stable value diﬀers from some analyses of games with trembles in which the order of the
limits is reversed. For example, with the order reversed, Ellison’s (1994) analysis shows that the prisoner’s
dilemma with anonymous random matching attains
lim
M→∞
lim
ϵ→0
V (ϵ,M ) = 1
using randomized versions of contagion strategies, while Friedman (1997) has shown that the stable value
for that game is 0. The SV order of limits is more appropriate for our analysis, where we expect a large
enough population so that at least one error per period is expected. The reversed order would eﬀectively
take a limit where the number of errors, Mϵ, approaches 0.
10

Thus, we get the standard result of full cooperation (except for trembles) analogous to
that for a prisoner’s dilemma of iterated play with the same partner.
Corollary 1 For the game with persistent identities SV = 1.
3.2 Free Identiﬁer Changes
When players can freely change identiﬁers, malicious players or trembles ruin the PGTS
equilibrium. A single tremble or malicious player causes mass defection in future periods.
For anyϵ> 0, PGTS has an expected average per-period payoﬀ of 0; V (PGTS ) = 0.
As discussed by Ellison (1994), PGTS can be replaced by a “public forgiving trigger
strategy” (PFTS) that works for (very) small ϵ > 0. In PFTS a player cooperates until
the ﬁrst time someone defects. Then she chooses D for a ﬁnite number of periods (the
punishment phase) after which she goes back to cooperating. For ﬁxed ϵ, however, as M gets
large, there will be a tremble in almost every period and this will not be an equilibrium. 17
The point of the punishment phase is to deter non-malicious players from defecting. An
alternative way to do that is through a “paying your dues” strategy (PYD), which makes
it much less attractive to have a new identiﬁer than one that has a history of cooperative
action. Essentially, it rewards positive reputations rather than punishing negative reputa-
tions. Under PYD, when an entrant meets a compliant veteran (non-entrant) the entrant
chooses C and the veteran chooses D. Thus, ‘dues’ are transferred from the entrant to the
veteran, although at a cost to overall eﬃciency. The dues act as an endogenous entry fee,
discouraging a veteran from deviating since he must then change his name, behave as an
entrant and pay more dues.
While our prisoner’s dilemma model suggests that dues be paid in the form of “defection”
against cooperative newcomers in a simultaneous game, in practice newcomers’ dues may
take several forms. In fraternity initiation, newcomers perform work or accept humiliation.
At eBay, newcomers may have to accept shipping delays (for example, a seller may wait for
17Even if trembles are very rare, an environment where PFTS operates may attract a malicious player,
since such a player can create a large disruption. Thus in (the perhaps more realistic) case when the number
of malicious players is endogenous our discussion is also valid.
11

a newcomer’s check to clear before sending goods, but send goods immediately to veteran
buyers). Kollock (1998) reports that newcomers accept more transaction risks in the on-line
environment for trading playing cards for the game Magic. After people who have never
met each other agree to exchange cards (or sell cards for money), the person without an
established reputation has to send his card ﬁrst; the veteran should reciprocate after receiving
the newcomer’s card, but the newcomer accepts the risk that this might not happen.
Formally, the PYD strategies are as follows. Identiﬁers are divided into two types, en-
trants (those that have no history of previous actions), and veterans. Identiﬁers are said to
be “in compliance” if all their past actions conform to the PYD strategy (entrants are triv-
ially in compliance). Note that an identiﬁer can remain in compliance even after defecting,
so long as the defection was called for in the PYD strategy. A player always cooperates if
both she and her opponent are the same type and “in compliance”. If a compliant veteran
meets an entrant then the entrant chooses C and, if q <ˆq(α,ϵ,M ), the veteran chooses D
(otherwise C) where
ˆq(α,ϵ,M ) = 1− 1/M
(1−α) (2−α− 2/M−ϵ +ϵ/M +ϵα ) (1− 2ϵ)
(Note that to improve eﬃciency we only require dues to be paid part of the time. This is
the reason for introducing the exogenous signal q.) If either player is not in compliance,
then both players choose D. Finally, the strategy calls for a player whose identiﬁer is not in
compliance to take on a new identiﬁer and begin again as an entrant.
The function ˆq(α,ϵ,M ) is precisely the minimal punishment probability to prevent a
player from deliberately deviating and then returning as an entrant in the following period.
In the absence of trembles, for M going to inﬁnity, this equilibrium has expected payoﬀ per
player of 1
α− 1
2−α. Some of a player’s ﬁrst-period dues may be recovered in later periods if
the player is allowed to defect against a newcomer, but there is a net loss of between .5 and 1
utils per player. As the following proposition shows, for small ϵ, PYD is still an equilibrium
with approximately the same payoﬀs.
Proposition 2 Forα<. 3,ϵ<. 1 andM >11, and ˆq(α,ϵ,M )≤ 1, PYD is an equilibrium
12

of the game with impersistent identities, where V (s) = 1− α
2−α−O(ϵ)−O(1/M).
From this we get a lower bound for the stable value, resulting from the dues paid by
newcomers (essentially, the α
2−α term). As epsilon go to zero in computing the stable value
limit, the losses by veterans who tremble goes to 0. (Note that the condition ˆq(α,ϵ,M )≤ 1
is automatically satisﬁed when α<. 24 or ϵ<. 05.)
Corollary 2 For the game with impersistent identities SV ≥ 1− α
2−α.
Note that for small ϵ, the PYD equilibrium implies an average loss in (unnormalized)
payoﬀs to each player of (2−α)−1, which is approximately 1/2 for α close to zero.
Although compliant veterans never deliberately deviate from the PYD equilibrium, the
equilibrium includes defections. There is dues paying by newcomers and by veterans who
trembled in the previous period, leading to some ineﬃciency. It is logical that trembling
players be punished, else other players will misbehave and claim to have trembled. It seems
wasteful, however, to punish the true newcomers, who have done nothing wrong. If, somehow,
the trembling players were usually punished but the true newcomers usually were not, such
an outcome would have value V (s) = 1−O(ϵ) and a stable value of 1 even though previous
period deviants cannot be distinguished from this period’s true newcomers.
It is, in fact, possible, to do somewhat better than the PYD equilibrium. For example,
consider a variant that omits the dues for newcomers in any period following one where there
are no deviations. This strategy yields an equilibrium, but for ﬁxed ϵ, as M gets large there
will almost always be at least one deviation, so the improvement over PYD is only O(e−ϵM).
More generally, there may be ways to condition the payoﬀs for newcomers in the next
period on the collective behavior of veterans in the previous period (more dues next period
if more deviation this period). This increases the fraction of the total dues paid by tremblers
(as opposed to true newcomers). Our next proposition, however, shows that no equilibrium
yields signiﬁcantly higher payoﬀs than PYD. Thus, while there can be improvements over
the PYD equilibrium, the improvements are slight and the bound for the stable value given
in Corollary 2 is tight.
13

The key ideas in the proof are:
1) Although an equilibrium can have unusual behavior for special periods or special players,
on average, veterans must receive expected payoﬀs that are suﬃciently larger than the en-
trants’ payoﬀs to prevent someone from defecting and then returning in the following period
as a new entrant. (See lemma 2 in the proof).
2) The “most eﬃcient” (i.e., with the fewest defections) way to create a diﬀerential between
the value of being a veteran rather than an entrant is by having a veteran defect against an
entrant, since this “transfers” utility from the entrants to the veterans. (See lemma 5 in the
proof).
Proposition 3 Fix α < .3. There exists some β >0 such that for any v >1− α
2−α there
exists an ϵ such that for all ϵ< ϵ and M >β/ϵ there is no equilibrium, s∗, of the game with
impersistent identities with V (s∗)≥v.
Thus, the stable value is precisely what was obtained from the PYD equilibrium.
Corollary 3 For the game with impersistent identities SV = 1− α
2−α.
This shows that there is no fully eﬃcient “stable” equilibrium when identities are not
persistent and PYD has the highest payoﬀs (to within O(ϵ) +O(1/M)) of any equilibrium
strategy. One further implication of the two ideas behind the proof is that any equilibrium
with approximately as much cooperation as PYD must have almost all its defections be
by veterans against entrants. Thus, although the PYD equilbrium is not unique, all other
equilibria that achieve near maximum eﬃciency must operate in the same spirit that PYD
does, with veterans defecting against entrants. In particular, slow-start schemes where new-
comers initially play low stakes games until they build reputations would be less eﬃcient
than schemes that transfer utility from newcomers to veterans.
4 Payments for Identiﬁers
The simplest method to attain full eﬃciency in the game with impersistent identities and
either malicious players or trembles is to make dues paying explicit, such as with the im-
14

position of an entry fee. 18 It is easy to see that if such a fee is chosen appropriately then
players will have a suﬃcient incentive not to defect from the equilibrium and begin again
with a new identiﬁer, as they would then incur a new entry fee.
Suppose that the entry fees collected in period t+1 are distributed evenly among all
the players who participated in period t. Since such a fee is purely a transfer it does not
impact eﬃciency. If each player uses, in expectation, the same number of identiﬁers, then
each player will, in expectation, collect back exactly the amount of her entry fee. Players
who change identiﬁers deliberately would increase the amount that other players collect in
distributions. Thus, if an equilibrium strategy calls for a player not to change identiﬁers
deliberately, the entry fee would not impact that player’s willingness to participate.
While attractive, this scheme suﬀers from two problems. First, the redistribution pay-
ments may introduce incentives for players to stay in the game beyond the time when their
natural interest or life circumstances change. Thus, redistribution of entry fees would invali-
date our modeling of the exit process as exogenous. Even without this problem, this solution
does not work if players’ expected lifetimes are heterogeneous. For example, some players
may know that they have a short attention span and thus don’t expect to be in the system
long enough to recoup their entry fee.
These problems can be eliminated if entry fees are not redistributed to the players (per-
haps they are given to charity, or kept as proﬁt by an entity running the environment). If,
however, player payoﬀs are heterogeneous, such fees will introduce ineﬃciency: some players
will choose not to participate.
To make this argument explicitly, consider a variation of the game with impersistent
identities in which players’ varying wealth causes them to value money diﬀerently, as modeled
by a parameter λ∈ (0, 1]. The expected payoﬀ for a player with intensity λ is V (s)
α −λF ,
where F is the entry fee. Our point is easily made when α = .1, and players’ intensities
are i.i.d. with λ = 1 (the poor players) with probability p and λ = 0.01 (the wealthy
18An alternative is to require posting of a bond for each new identiﬁer, to be forfeited if some central
authority determines that the player has deviated from acceptable behavior. The advantage of straight
entry fees over bonds is that no central authority is needed, which is important on the internet where there
is often strong distrust of such authorities.
15

players) with probability 1−p. It is clear that in this case, the entry fee must be suﬃciently
large to prevent the wealthy players from deviating, but this will deter the other players
from entering, thereby leading to eﬃciency losses. More generally, the optimal entry fee
will often exclude some players yet still be insuﬃcient to deter the wealthiest players from
defecting. A similar problem occurs if players have heterogeneous payoﬀs in the game rather
than heterogeneous value for money; in that case, the optimal dues for a PYD equilibrium
would also exclude some players from the game yet be insuﬃcient to deter some others from
defecting regularly. The problem of large ﬁxed costs deterring some entrants is well known
in the economics literature, but standard solutions such as price discrimination or two-part
tariﬀs are not applicable here.
5 Identiﬁer Commitments
We now describe an implementable system which achieves full eﬃciency even in the presence
of heterogeneous payoﬀs, by allowing players to credibly commit not to change identiﬁers,
still without revealing their true identities. As a starting point, suppose that there were an
intermediary, trusted by all players. The intermediary assigns identiﬁers to players when
they request them, but promises never to reveal which players received which identiﬁers.
Suppose that the intermediary also oﬀers a special class of identiﬁers, which we call once-in-
a-lifetime identiﬁers but for each social arena will issue at most one such identiﬁer to each
player.19 A player with a once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁer is not prevented from returning with a
regular identiﬁer, although regular identiﬁers may be viewed with suspicion by other players.
Any equilibrium strategy vector for the game where identiﬁers are ﬁxed can be extended
to a strategy vector for the game where players have the option of using once-in-a-lifetime
identiﬁers. Players choose D against regular identiﬁers and follow the original strategy
19eBay recently introduced Equifax as an optional service provider to authenticate the registration infor-
mation (name, address, etc.) of users, suggesting that a third-party registration service may be viable. The
Equifax service, however, does not quite match our proposal for once-in-a-lifetime pseudonyms. First, it is
not clear under what conditions Equifax would reveal the mapping between real identities and pseudonyms.
Second, Equifax does not currently advertise a policy of one eBay pseudonym per person, so that it would
still be possible to escape a negative reputation by re-registering.
16

against once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁers. Since regular identiﬁers are treated so poorly, use of
a once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁer eﬀectively signals a commitment to keep using that identiﬁer
rather than returning anonymously. Conversely, a player who does not use a once-in-a-
lifetime identiﬁer (i.e., does not make an identiﬁer commitment) signals that she is not
trustworthy. In equilibrium, no one uses regular identiﬁers.
In particular, LPS (defect against anyone who deviated in the previous period) extends
to an equilibrium with nearly complete cooperation (only trembles are punished). Note also
that even if players diﬀer in the intensity of their payoﬀs, this remains an equilibrium with
full participation and full cooperation, unlike entry fees, which might exclude some players
from participating. Thus we note that in this game the stable value is 1.
In this scenario, the players have to trust the intermediary not to reveal their true iden-
tities, even though the intermediary knows the mapping between players and identiﬁers. We
can reduce the trust requirement somewhat through a cryptographic technique known as
blind signatures (Schneier, p. 112-114). 20 The protocol, though it would actually be imple-
mented using encrypted electronic communications, is easiest to describe with an analogy
to carbon paper and envelopes. Player A signs the outside of an envelope with her true
signature. A then types up a letter specifying a new once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁer for herself
and puts it in the envelope together with a piece of carbon paper. She sends the envelope
to the intermediary, who checks A’s signature on the envelope without opening it. After
checking that A has not previously requested a once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁer, the intermediary
signs the outside of the envelope; because of the carbon paper, the signature bleeds through
onto the letter. The intermediary sends the unopened envelope back to A, who removes the
letter, now signed by the intermediary, and presents it to other players in the game as proof
of her once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁer.
20One of the strengths of the Internet is the ease with which complicated encryption and veriﬁcation
mechanisms can be implemented. For example, Eudora Lite, a standard email program, is distributed
free with Pretty Good Privacy, an encryption program which provides a large degree of security against
eavesdroppers. It is easy to use even for the novice as the program does most of the work. Thus, it is
possible for ordinary people to use sophisticated encryption programs, something that is quite diﬃcult for
non-electronic transactions.
17

The intermediary never learns what identiﬁer A is using, since it was sealed in the en-
velope, although the intermediary knows that A acquired some once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁer.
This protocol is still subject to a timing attack, however: the intermediary can watch to
see what new once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁer is used in the game, and associate it with the last
player who requested one. If players wish to avoid this, they need to acquire their identiﬁers
and hold onto them for a random length of time before they use them.
The envelope and carbon paper protocol described above can be implemented quite
practically if identiﬁers correspond to private-public encryption key pairs. Encryption keys
are just long strings of bits; the private portion of the key pair is known only to the key’s
owner, while the public key is available to everyone. A private key is used to “sign” a string
of bits by computing a function of the bits and the private key. The function works such
that anyone with the corresponding public key can verify that the private key was used to
make the signature, but no one can forge a signature by computing the function’s output
without knowing the private key.21
Each player is assumed to start with a private key associated with her true identity.22 To
establish a once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁer for some arena, player A ﬁrst constructs a brand new
key pair (a new pseudonym). A sends the public half of the new pair to the intermediary,
but blinds it by multiplying by a randomly chosen number (the equivalent of sealing it in an
envelope with carbon paper). The player uses the private key for her true identity to sign
the request, so that the intermediary can verify that it came from A (only someone knowing
A’s private key could have generated the signature). If the intermediary has never previously
certiﬁed a pseudonym for A, the intermediary uses its own private key to sign the new blinded
public key that A provided. A receives the blinded signed key and is able to remove the
blinding factor (the equivalent of opening the envelope), leaving a certiﬁcate, signed by the
21Private-public encryption and signature handling software is already built into the major Web browsers
and is routinely used for establishing private communication (URLs that begin https:// usually cause this
feature to be invoked) and for assessing the safety of downloaded code.
22There are some practical diﬃculties to be surmounted in setting up an infrastructure for establishing
key pairs for individuals and publicizing the public portion. A few companies, most notably Verisign, have
established a foothold in this business, and there is also speculation that governments may provide such
services.
18

intermediary, that attests that the new public key is valid as a once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁer.
The intermediary knows that A has acquired a once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁer, but does not
know which one.
Subsequently, player A can participate in the game without revealing her true identity.
She presents the certiﬁcate and signs communications with the pseudonym’s private key (not
the private key associated with her true identity). Other players can verify that the certiﬁ-
cate is authentic, using the intermediary’s public key to verify the intermediary’s signature.
They can verify that the communications are signed by whoever owns the once-in-a-lifetime
identiﬁer, using the identiﬁer’s public key. But no one, not even the intermediary, can tell
that the identiﬁer belongs to A.
There can be diﬀerent intermediaries for diﬀerent social arenas, or a single intermediary
can handle several arenas simultaneously, enforcing a restriction of one once-in-a-lifetime
identiﬁer per arena. For game servers or support groups, this process will prevent players
returning over and over again with new pseudonyms, while protecting their true identities.
There is still a danger that a person can acquire several once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁers for a
single arena, if she uses several people’s true identiﬁers to acquire the certiﬁcates. If a robust
cryptography infrastructure develops, however, most people will be very reluctant to allow
another to use their true identiﬁers. In any case, the need to use a true identiﬁer to acquire
a once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁer will impose almost no cost on individuals who wish to acquire
just one, but will impose a signiﬁcant cost on those who try to acquire several.
How should the intermediary for an arena be selected? One possibility would be for the
oﬃcial intermediary to be allocated according to some public auction. Once chosen, the
intermediary will be a monopolist (we cannot have competition unless the competitors share
information about which players have already been issued committed identiﬁers). The initial
auction, however, can compete away the monopolists’ rents, at least for those services that
can be speciﬁed by contract. Thus, for example, the winner of the auction may have to agree
to provide identiﬁers for a ﬁxed fee, and within a speciﬁed turnaround time, or else lose its
franchise. The intermediary may also be required to submit to regular audits, to make sure
19

that it issues only one once-in-a-lifetime identiﬁer per player.
Note that there is an inherent tradeoﬀ between anonymity and accountability in the
choice of how broad a set of activities to deﬁne as a single arena. Should the arena in which
a person commits to a single identiﬁer consist of eBay’s Beanie Baby auctions, all eBay
auctions, or all auctions at any on-line service? A broader arena increases accountability,
both because there will be more historical data available to assess any individual’s reputation,
and because a bad reputation follows an individual to more places.
However, the broader the arena, the more opportunities there are for correlating behavior
between activities that an individual would like to keep separate. For example, a participant
in an education discussion group may not want other participants to know what she has
said in a discussion group on politics. In the most extreme case, there would be just one
arena for all of the the Internet and hence just one Internet identiﬁer per person. We would
expect more narrowly deﬁned arenas, however, in those sensitive areas where people care
more about anonymity.
6 Concluding Remarks
Even in the physical world, name changes have always been possible as a way to erase one’s
reputation. The Internet highlights the issue, by making name changes almost cost-free.
This creates a situation where positive reputations are valuable, but negative reputations
do not stick. It is natural to ask how much cooperation can be sustained relying only on
positive reputations. The answer is, “quite a lot”, but not complete cooperation. A natural
convention is to distrust or even mistreat strangers until they establish positive reputations.
Suspicion of strangers is costly to society. It is especially costly on the Internet, since
the great potential of the medium is to allow people to expand their horizons, to sample a
variety of interest groups and to trade with people they have never met. It would be nice
to create environments where strangers were trusted until proven otherwise. Unfortunately,
obvious strategy vectors involving cooperation with strangers are not stable, and we proved
that no strategy vector can do substantially better than punishing all newcomers.
20

Thus, there is an inherent social cost to free name changes. We can mitigate this cost by
charging for name changes, but this also requires charging for names in the ﬁrst place. That
may exclude poor people or those who are just exploring and not yet sure whether the payoﬀs
from participation would justify the entry fee. A better solution is to give people the option
of committing not to change identiﬁers. We described cryptographic mechanisms that enable
credible commitment to a single pseudonym within some arena, without revealing one’s true
identity. We expect both techniques for limiting name changes, entry fees and pseudonym
commitments, to blossom in Internet arenas.
A Proofs of Propositions
A.1 Proposition 1
For all α < .3, M > 1 and ϵ < .1, LPS is an equilibrium with V (s) = 1 −O(ϵ). More
precisely,V (s)≥ 1− 2ϵ.
The proof of Proposition 1 is similar to standard equilibrium proofs with some compli-
cations due to the existence of ﬁnite tremble probabilities.
First, consider a single deviation from the asserted equilibrium. The only possibly prof-
itable deviation is to try to defect when LPS calls for cooperation. When the defection is
carried out, the gain is 1 as compared to cooperation (for either action by the opponent) but
the player’s opponent will try to defect in the next period. This increases by 1 − 2ϵ (due to
trembles) the probability of the opponent actually defecting in the next period, which would
impose a penalty of 2 (for either action by the player). Thus, a decision to deviate will be
proﬁtable only if 1 > 2(1−α)(1− 2ϵ). But for the given parameters, this is never true:
2(1−α)(1− 2ϵ)> 2(1−.3)(1−.2) = 1.12> 1. Thus, LPS is an equilibrium.
Next, we compute the per-period average payoﬀ for each player. In any period, some
players may have deviated (unintentionally) from LPS. When 2 non-deviators meet, they
(attempt to) cooperate and each has an expected payoﬀ of (1 −ϵ)2(1) +ϵ(1−ϵ)(2) +ϵ(1−
ϵ)(−1)+ϵ2(0) = 1−ϵ. When 2 deviators meet they (attempt to) defect the expected payoﬀ is
21

(1−ϵ)2(0)+ϵ(1−ϵ)(−1)+ϵ(1−ϵ)(2)+ϵ2(1) =ϵ. Similarly, a deviator meeting a non-deviator
gets−1+3ϵ and the opposite yields 2−3ϵ. If there were k deviations in the previous period,
the average payoﬀ per player in the current period will be:
(k/M)2ϵ + (1−k/M)(k/M)(−1 + 3ϵ) + (1−k/M)(k/M)(2− 3ϵ) + (1−k/M)2(1−ϵ).
Using the fact that E[k/M] = ϵ in equilibrium, this is 1 − 2ϵ + 2ϵ2, which is larger than
1− 2ϵ.
A.2 Proposition 2
Forα<. 3, ϵ<. 1 and M >11, and ˆq(α,ϵ,M )≤ 1, PYD is an equilibrium of the game with
impersistent identities, where V (s) = 1− α
2−α−O(ϵ)−O(1/M).
As in the previous proof, the gain for defecting when the equilibrium strategy calls for
cooperating is 1, while the loss arises because the expected payoﬀ in the next period is
reduced, since the player must return as an entrant. This loss only occurs when qt+1≤ ˆq.
If the player is matched with a veteran, then the loss is due to the veteran choosing defect
(which leads to a loss of 2 utils when it happens) with probability 1−ϵ instead of probability
ϵ. If the player is matched with an entrant then the loss is due to the player not defecting
(which loses 1 util when it happens) with probability 1 −ϵ instead of ϵ. The probability of
being matched with an entrant in the next period is the same whether the player deviates or
not, and can be calculated from the expected number of trembles this period and the expected
number of true newcomers in the next period, pe = (Mα + (M(1−α)− 1)ϵ)/(M− 1).
The expected loss, then, from a defection when the strategy calls for cooperation, is
(1−α)(1− 2ϵ)ˆq(pe + 2(1−pe)). Thus, players will not try to deviate, which increases the
probability of actually deviating, if 1 ≤ (1−α)(1− 2ϵ)ˆq(pe + 2(1−pe)), which is satisﬁed
with equality for the value of ˆq in the proposition.
To compute the expected payoﬀ for this equilibrium, we note that by stationarity and
anonymity of PYD we need only compute the average payoﬀ for a period. To do this we
note that the total payoﬀ in a period is M− ˆM where ˆM is the number of defections in
22

that period, since every defection costs 1 util in total payoﬀs. Thus V = 1−pD where pD
is the probability that a randomly chosen player will defect. The only type of player who
attempts to defect in equilibrium is a veteran who is matched with an entrant in a period
in which qt≤ ˆq. Let p be the probability that a veteran is matched with an entrant. Then
pD = (1−ϵ)ˆqp +ϵ(1−p)). Since in any period there are (on average) Mα +M(1−α)ϵ
entrants,p =α(1−α) +O(ϵ + 1/M). Since ˆq = ((1−α)(2−α))−1 +O(ϵ + 1/M) this implies
that
pD = α
2−α +O(ϵ + 1/M)
and thus
V = 1−pD = 1− α
2−α−O(ϵ + 1/M)
proving the proposition. 2
A.3 Proposition 3
Fix α < .3. There exists some β >0 such that for any v >1− α
2−α there exists an ϵ such
that for all ϵ <ϵ and M > β/ϵthere is no equilibrium, s∗, of the game with impersistent
identities with V (s∗)≥v.
We will show that no strategy vector with average expected payoﬀs greater than 1 /α−
1/(2−α) can provide suﬃcient incentives to prevent entrants from defecting. An equilib-
rium can include unusual behavior in selected periods or by selected players. We establish,
however, a minimal diﬀerence, on average, between the payoﬀs of newcomers and veterans.
If this minimum is not met, then there will be at least one player (at least one newcomer,
in fact) who in some period would deviate from the strategy. This is suﬃcient to infer a
minimal number of defections in any equilibrium strategy.
First note that for any equilibrium, there is a payoﬀ equivalent equilibrium in which no
player ever intentionally gets a new identity. Let s be a set of strategies. Deﬁne s′ to be the
set of strategies which are identical with s except for the following. 1) If s tells a player to
intentionally get a new identity, then s′ has the player maintain her current identity. 2) In
23

s′ when playing against a player who would have gotten a new identity in s treat them as if
they were an entrant in the most recent period when they should have gotten a new identity.
Clearly, such a change will not aﬀect any player’s payoﬀs or incentives and thus s′ is still
an equilibrium and is payoﬀ equivalent (along every sample path) to s. Thus, if there is
an equilibrium strategy with payoﬀs greater than our bound, there is also one that involves
no deliberate name changes (except after name trembles). Without loss of generality, we
assume for the remainder of the proof that strategies involve no deliberate name changes.
Deﬁne Vi to be the expected per-period payoﬀ to player i conditional on the history of
play before she enters, (note that we are suppressing the explicit notation for histories, for
ease of presentation). Note that Vi will be the same for all new identiﬁers in the period
that i begins. Thus we will abuse the notation slightly by writing Vt for the expected per-
period payoﬀ to any newcomer in period t, or Vb(i) for the expected per-period payoﬀ to
any newcomer in i’s ﬁrst period. Deﬁne Wi as the expected per-period payoﬀ for player i
starting in the second period of participation (b(i)+1), conditional on the fact that the player
actually conformed to the strategy in the previous period, conditional on not exiting after
the ﬁrst period, and conditional on all information available at the time of their action choice
in the period in which they enter. Deﬁne V′
i as the expected per-period payoﬀ to player i
starting in the second period of participation, conditional on player i actually deviating and
not exiting.
First we note that Vb(i)+1 is a good approximation for V′
i for ‘most’ players.
Lemma 1 For all ψ,φ> 0 there exists some β >0 such that for all M >β/ϵ the following
holds: Given any t >0 let Z be the set of entrants in period t− 1; then the set Z′ ={i∈
Z| V′
i−Vt >ψ} satisﬁes|Z′|<φ|Z|.23
We will refer toZ′ as the “trigger” players, the ones whose deviations trigger big changes
in the payoﬀs in the next period. The proof is by contradiction. Suppose there existsψ,φ> 0
such that for any β >0 there is a strategy vector s, with M >β/ϵ, such that|Z′|≥ φ|Z|.
23This result closely parallels the main lemma in Fudenberg, Levine and Pesendorfer (1998), in a diﬀerent
setting.
24

Letx∈{ 0, 1}Z wherexi = 0 if playeri∈Z deviates in period t− 1 and 0 otherwise. Let
V (x) be the expected value of Vt under s if x is the actual pattern of deviations by entrants
in period t− 1. Let Σ be the set of all permutations of Z which respect Z′, i.e., σ∈ Σ is
a mapping Z→ Z such that σ(Z′) = Z′. With a slight abuse of notation let σ(x) be the
permutation of the vector x byσ, e.g., σ(x)σ(i) =xi.
Now consider a new function ˆV (·) which is deﬁned as follows, ˆV (x) =
∑
σ∈ΣV (σ(x))/|Σ|.
Deﬁne ˆV′
i = E[ ˆV in period t| i deviates in period t-1] and ˆVt = E[ ˆV in period t]. Note
that since deviations by all trigger players are equally likely that ˆVt = Vt. Moreover, if
i∈Z\Z′, ˆV′
i is the average among non-trigger players of V′
i (again, because in equilibrium
deviations by all trigger players are equally likely), but V′
i−Vt≤ψ for all such players, so
that ˆV′
i−Vt≤ψ for such players. Similarly, if i∈Z′, ˆV′
i−Vt > ψ. Thus, ˆV has the same
set of trigger players as V but ˆV (x) depends only on the number of deviations by each type
of entrant (trigger and non-trigger) and not on which particular players deviate.
We will now show that when there are enough trigger players, each can have only a limited
impact on the distribution of the number of deviations, and hence on ˆV , which contradicts
the deﬁnition of being a trigger player. Deﬁne ˆVk = E[ ˆV|k deviations by trigger players].
Thus, Vt = E[ ˆVk] while for a trigger player i∈ Z′, V′
i = E[ ˆVk| i actually deviates]. Let
m =|Z′|, the number of trigger players. Then the probability of k deviations by trigger
players is given by the formula for a binomial distribution, Pm
k = m!
k!(m−k)!ϵk(1−ϵ)m−k, while
for k≥ 1 the probability, contingent on i deviating, is Pm−1
k−1 . This implies that
ˆV′
i− ˆVt =− ˆV 0Pm
0 +
m∑
k=1
ˆVk[Pm−1
k−1 −Pm
k ].
Since ˆVk∈ [−1, 2] we see that
1
2| ˆV′
i− ˆVt|≤ Pm
0 +
m∑
k=1
|Pm−1
k−1 −Pm
k|.
The sum on the r.h.s. of this equation is equal to
⌊mϵ⌋∑
k=1
Pm
k −Pm−1
k−1 +
m∑
k=⌊mϵ⌋+1
Pm−1
k−1 −Pm
k
25

and thus the r.h.s. of that equation is equal to the sum of |Pr [k ≤ ⌊mϵ⌋]−| Pr [k ≤
⌊mϵ⌋|i deviates] and Pr [k >⌊mϵ⌋]−Pr [k >⌊mϵ⌋|i deviates]| assuming that mϵ is not an
integer; but both of these terms are small since mϵ is the mode of both distributions, and
all the probabilities converge to 1/2 +O((mϵ)−1/2) by the central limit theorem (Hoeﬀding,
1994). Thus, it is easy to show that the r.h.s. of that equation is O((mϵ)−1/2) for ﬁxed α
and is O((Mϵ)−1/2) for ﬁxed φ, since, by assumption, m > φM. Thus for Mϵ suﬃcienty
large this implies that ˆV′
i− ˆVt≤ψ providing the required contradiction.
Intuitively, the assumption of a constant fraction of trigger players means that, as M gets
large, there are a large number of trigger players. But when there are large number of them,
and the payoﬀs are controlled only by the quantity who deviate (and not which ones), one
player’s deliberate decision to deviate can have only a minor impact on the total payoﬀs.
But that contradicts what it means to be trigger player. ⋄
Now, consider an entrant i who in equilibrium chooses C in her ﬁrst period of play. The
immediate beneﬁt from a deviation is 1 while the future cost of returning the next period as
an entrant is Wi−Vi
α
′
with probability (1−α). Thus, to maintain equilibrium, we must have
(1−α)
α (Wi−V′
i )> 1.
For an entrant i who in equilibrium chooses D in her ﬁrst period of play, there is no
immediate beneﬁt from a deviation. However, if Wi−V′
i < 0 she will choose to get a new
name in the following period. Thus, to maintain an equilibrium with no deliberate name
changes, we must have Wi−V′
i > 0.
Fix α,T > 0 and deﬁne V (T ) to be the expected value of Vi averaged over all players
entering before period T , i.e., all i such that b(i)<T . Note that since the same number of
entrants are expected in each period, V (T ) is also the average of Vt over allt<T . Similarly
let W (T ) be the expected average over Wi for all i such that b(i)<T .
Forr,s∈{ e,v} let prs be the empirical probability in periods 1 through T that player
of type r defects against a player of type s, while pr is the empirical probability that type r
defects and p is the empirical probability of any player defect. Note that since players never
deliberately change names, to O(ϵ + 1/M), pr =αpre + (1−α)prv and p =αpe + (1−α)pv.
26

Lemma 2 Ifs is an equilibrium then (1−α)(W−V )/α≥ (1−pe)−O(ψ+φ+1/T +ϵ+1/M).
Proof: On all sample paths (1−α)
α (Wi−V′
i )≥ 1 for players who choose C in their ﬁrst
period in the system and (1−α)
α (Wi−V′
i )≥ 0 for those who choose D. Note that (1−pe) of
the entrants are of the ﬁrst type and pe are of the second type. By lemma 1, only a fraction
φ are trigger players, and their payoﬀs are bounded, and of the remaining players, their V′
i
values are within ψ ofVb(i)+1. Finally, note that V is within a constant of the average of the
Vb(i)+1 (a few V0 values are replaced by VT values). Taking the expectation and combining
these proves the result.⋄
Now we will show that this can not occur for any equilibrium with payoﬀs larger than
PYD. First we compute V and W.
Lemma 3 V = 1−p +O(1/T + 1/M +ϵ).
Proof: This can be computed directly, but it is most easily seen by noting that every
defection removes one util from the total payoﬀ to the players. ⋄
Lemma 4 W = 1 +α(pve− 2pev)− (1−α)pvv +O(1/T + 1/M +ϵ).
Proof: This follows since a defection by a veteran against another veteran costs the set of
veterans 1 util, a defection of a veteran against an entrant gains 1 util, and a defection of
an entrant against a veteran loses 2 utils. ⋄
We now show that if V is large, there are not enough defections overall to keep W−V
suﬃciently large.
Lemma 5 IfV≥ 1−α/(2−α)+δ then (1−α)
α (W−V )≤ (1−pe− (1−α)
α δ)+O(1/M+1/T +ϵ),
for any δ >0.
Proof: Let Y = (1−α)
α (W−V )− (1−pe− (1−α)
α δ). Applying the formulas for W and V yield
Y = (1−α)
α [α(pve− 2pev)− (1−α)pvv +δ +p]− (1−pe) +O(1/M + 1/T +ϵ). Thus, we need
to show that Ymax ={max Y | V≥ 1−α/(2−α) +δ}≤ 0.
27

Since V ≥ 1−p, Ymax≤{ max Y | p≤ α/(2−α)−δ}≤{ max Y + [α/(2−α)−
δ−p] (1−α)
α | p≤ α/(2−α)−δ}. Ignoring the term O(1/M + 1/T +ϵ), we get Ymax≤
{max (1−α)
α [α(pve− 2pev)− (1−α)pvv +δ +α/(2−α)−δ]− (1−pe)| p≤α/(2−α)−δ}.
It is easy to see that both pev and pvv will be 0 at the maximum, so Ymax≤{ max (1 −
α)pve− 1/(2−α) +αpee|α2pee +α(1−α)pve≤α/(2−α)−δ}. The constraint implies that
Ymax≤− 1/(2−α) + 1/(2−α)−δ/α =−δ/α. This is strictly negative and thus remains
negative when the order terms, O(1/M + 1/T +ϵ), are included. ⋄
Proof of Proposition: By the assumption on V and Lemma 5 we know that (1−α)
α (W−
V )≤ (1−pe− (1−α)
α δ)+O(1/M +1/T +ϵ), but for anyδ >0, this contradicts Lemma 2 when
φ,ψ , and 1/T are suﬃciently small. By Lemma 1, choosing β suﬃciently large and letting
T go to inﬁnity makes those values arbitrarily small and thus yields a contradiction. 2
References
[1] D. Abreu, D. Pearce, and E. Stachetti. Toward a theory of discounted repeated games
with imperfect monitoring. Journal of Economic Theory , 58:1041–1064, 1990.
[2] C. Avery, P. Resnick, and R. Zeckhauser. The market for evaluations. American Eco-
nomic Review, 89(3), 1999.
[3] Y. Bakos and E. Brynjolfsson. Bundling information goods: Pricing, proﬁts and eﬃ-
ciency. MIT Sloan School working paper, 1998.
[4] G. Ellison. Cooperation in the prisoner’s dilemma with anonymous random matching.
Review of Economic Studies , 61:567–588, 1994.
[5] E. J. Friedman. On social norms in noisy environments. mimeo, 1999.
[6] E. J. Friedman and S. Shenker. Learning and implementation in the Internet. mimeo,
1998.
[7] D. Fudenberg, D. Levine, and W. Pesendorfer. When are nonanonymous players negli-
gible? Journal of Economic Theory , 79(1):46–71, 1998.
28

[8] D. Fudenberg and J. Tirole. Game Theory . MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts,
1991.
[9] David Goldschlag, Michael Reed, and Paul Syverson. Onion routing for anonymous and
private internet connections. Communications of the ACM , 42(2):39–41, 1999.
[10] D. Grady. Faking pain and suﬀering on the Internet. The New York Times, 1998. April
23.
[11] E. Green and R. Porter. Noncooperative collusion under imperfect price information.
Econometrica, 52:87–100, 1984.
[12] S. Herzog, S. Shenker, and D. Estrin. Sharing the cost of multicast trees: an axiomatic
analysis. Transactions on Networks, 5(6):847–860, 1997.
[13] W. Hoeﬀding. Probability inequalities for sums of bounded random variables. In
N. Fisher and P. Sen, editors, The Collected Works of Wassily Hoeﬀding . Springer-
Verlag, 1994.
[14] M. Kandori. Social norms and community enforcement. Review of Economic Studies ,
59:63–80, 1992.
[15] R. Kling, Y. Lee, A. Teich, and M. Frankel. Assessing anonymous communication on
the internet: Policy deliberations. The Information Society , 15(2), 1999.
[16] P. Kollock. The production of trust in online markets. To appear in: Advances in Group
Processes (Vol. 16), eds E.J. Lawler, M. Macy, S. Thyne, and H. A. Walker. Greenwich,
CT: JAI Press. 1999, 1998.
[17] D. Kreps, P. Milgrom, J. Roberts, and R. Wilson. Rational cooperation in the ﬁnitely
repeated prisoner’s dilemma. Econometrica, 27:245–252, 1982.
[18] G. Marx. What’s in a name? some reﬂections on the sociology of anonymity. The
Information Society, 15(2), 1999.
29

[19] P. Milgrom, D. North, and B. Weingast. The role of institutions in the revival of trade:
the law merchant, private judges, and the champaign fairs. Economics and Politics ,
2:1–23, 1990.
[20] H. Moulin and S. Shenker. Serial cost sharing. Econometrica, 60:1009–1037, 1992.
[21] H. Nissenbaum. The meaning of anonymity in an information age. The Information
Society, 15(2), 1999.
[22] M. Nowak and K. Sigmund. A strategy of win-stay, lose-shift that outperforms tit-for-tat
in the prisoner’s dilemma game. Nature, 364(64):56, 1993.
[23] P. Omidyar. Regarding the feedback forum, letter from founder pierre omidyar to the
ebay community. http://pages.ebay.com/aw/letter-060998-feedback.html, 1998. June 9.
[24] Michael Reiter and Aviel Rubin. Anonymous web transactions with crowds. Commu-
nications of the ACM , 42(2):32–38, 1999.
[25] B. Schneier. Applied Cryptography. John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, 2nd edition,
1996.
[26] S. Tadelis. What’s in a name? Reputation as a tradeable asset. American Economic
Review, 89(3), 1999.
[27] A. Teich, M. Frankel, R. Kling, and Y. Lee. Anonymous communication policies for the
internet: Results and recommendations of the AAAS. The Information Society , 15(2),
1999.
[28] H. Varian. Buying, sharing and renting information goods. mimeo, 1994.
[29] J. Watson. Starting small and renegotiation. Journal of Economic Theory, 85(1), 1999.
30