Software Protection
and Simulation on Oblivious RAMs ∗
Rafail Ostrovsky†
May 17, 1992
Abstract
Software protection is one of the most important issues conc erning computer
practice. There exist many heuristics and ad-hoc methods fo r protection, but
the problem as a whole has not received the theoretical treat ment it deserves. In
this paper we provide theoretical treatment of software pro tection. We reduce
the problem of software protection to the problem of eﬃcient simulation on
oblivious RAM.
A machine is oblivious if the sequence in which it accesses memory locations
is equivalent for any two inputs with the same running time. F or example, an
oblivious Turing Machine is one for which the movement of the heads on the
tapes is identical for each computation. (Thus, it is indepe ndent of the actual
input.) What is the slowdown in the running time of any machine, if it i s
required to be oblivious? In 1979 Pippenger and Fischer showed how a two-tape
oblivious Turing Machine can simulate, on-line, a one-tape Turing Mac hine,
with a logarithmic slowdown in the running time. We show an an alogous result
for the random-access machine (RAM) model of computation. I n particular,
we show how to do an on-line simulation of an arbitrary RAM inp ut by a
probabilistic oblivious RAM with a poly-logarithmic slowdown in the running
time. On the other hand, we show that a logarithmic slowdown i s a lower
bound.
∗ Preliminary Version appeared in STOC 1990.
† MIT Ph.D. Thesis, Computer Science, May 1992. Advisor: Silv io Micali. Journal version of
this thesis (with a somewhat diﬀerent, shorter proof of buck et reshuﬄes of section 5.5) was written
jointly with Oded Goldreich, and appeared in JACM in 1996.

Contents
1 Introduction 3
1.1 Software Protection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
1.1.1 The Role of Hardware . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
1.1.2 Learning by Executing the SH-package . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
1.1.3 An Eﬃcient CPU Which Defeats Experimenets . . . . . . . . 6
1.2 Simulations by Oblivious RAMs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
1.3 Notes Concerning The Exposition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
2 Model and Deﬁnitions 11
2.1 Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
2.2 RAMs as Interactive Machines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 2
2.2.1 The Basic Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
2.2.2 Augmentations to the Basic Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
2.3 Deﬁnition of Software Protection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
2.3.1 Experimenting With a RAM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
2.3.2 Software Protecting Transformations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
2.4 Deﬁnition of Oblivious RAM and Oblivious Simulations . . . . . . . . 20
2.4.1 Oblivious RAMs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
2.4.2 Oblivious Simulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
2.4.3 Time-labeled Simulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
3 Reducing Software Protection to Oblivious Simulation of R AMs 23
3.1 Software Protection Against Non-Tampering Adversarie s . . . . . . . 24
3.2 Software Protection Against Tampering Adversaries . . . . . . . . . . 25
4 Towards The Solution: The “Square Root” Solution 26
4.1 Overview of The “Square Root” Algorithm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
4.2 Implementation of the “Square Root” Algorithm . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
4.3 Analysis of The “Square Root” Algorithm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
5 The Hierarchical Solution 31
5.1 Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
5.2 The Restricted Problem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
5.3 The Algorithm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
5.4 Obliviousness of Access Pattern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
5.5 How To Perform The Oblivious Hash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
5.6 Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
1

5.7 Making Hierarchical Simulation Time-Labeled . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
5.8 Software protection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
6 A Lower Bound 47
7 Concluding Remarks 49
2

1 Introduction
In this paper, we present a theoretical treatment of softwar e protection. In particular,
we distill and formulate the key problem of learning about a program from its exe-
cution, and reduce this problem to the problem of on-line simulatio n of an arbitrary
program on an oblivious RAM. We then present our main result: an eﬃcient simu-
lation of an arbitrary (RAM) program on a probabilistic oblivious RAM. Assuming
that one-way functions exists, we show how one can make our so ftware protection
scheme robust against a polynomial-time adversary who is allowed to alter memory
contents during execution in a dynamic fashion. We begin by d iscussing software
protection.
1.1 Software Protection
Software is very expensive to create and very easy to steal. “ Software piracy” is
a major concern (and a major loss of revenue) to all software- related companies.
Software pirates borrow/rent software they need, copy it to their computer and use it
without paying anything for it. Thus, the question of software protection is one of the
most important issues concerning computer practice. The pr oblem is to sell programs
that can be executed by the buyer, yet cannot be redistribute d by the buyer to other
users. Much engineering eﬀort is put into trying to provide t he “software protection”,
but this eﬀort seems to lack theoretical foundations. In par ticular, there is no crisp
deﬁnition of what the problems are and what should be conside red as a satisfactory
solution. In this paper, we provide a theoretic treatment of software protection, by
distilling a key problem and solving it eﬃciently.
Before going any further, we distinguish between two “folkl ore” notions: the prob-
lem of protection against illegitimate duplication and the problem of protection against
redistribution (or ﬁngerprinting software ). Loosely speaking, the ﬁrst problem con-
sists of ensuring that there is no eﬃcient method for creatin g executable copies of
the software; while the second problem consists of ensuring that only the software
producer can prove in court that he has designed the program. In this paper we
concentrate on the ﬁrst problem.
1.1.1 The Role of Hardware
Let us examine various options which any computer-related c ompany has when con-
sidering how to protect its software. We claim that a purely s oftware-based solution is
impossible. This is so, since any software (no matter how enc rypted) is just a binary
3

sequence which a pirate can copy (bit by bit) and run on his own machine. Hence,
to protect against duplication, some hardware measures mus t be used: mere software
(which is not physically protected) can always be duplicate d. Carried to an extreme,
the trivial solution is to rely solely on hardware. That is, t o sell physically-protected
special-purpose computers for each task. This “solution” h as to be rejected as infea-
sible (in current technology) and contradictory to the para digm of general purpose
machines. We conclude that a real solution to protecting sof tware from duplication
should combine feasible software and hardware measures. Of course, the more hard-
ware we must physically protect, the more expensive our solu tion is. Hence, we must
also consider what is the minimal amount of physically prote cted hardware that we
really need.
It has been suggested [Be, K] to protect software against dup lication by sell-
ing a physically shielded Central Processing Unit (CPU) together with an encrypted
program (hereafter called the Software-Hardware-package or the SH-package). The
SH-package will be installed in a conventional computer sys tem by connecting the
shielded CPU to the address and data buses of the system and lo ading the encrypted
program into the memory devices. Once installed and activat ed, the (shielded) CPU
will run the (encrypted) program using the memory, I/O devic es and other compo-
nents of the computer. An instruction cycle of the (shielded ) CPU will consist of
fetching the next instruction, decrypting the instruction (using a cryptographic key
stored in the CPU), and executing the instruction. In case the execution consists of
reading from (resp. writing to) a memory location – the conte nts may be decrypted
after reading it (resp. encrypted before writing). It shoul d be stressed that the CPU
itself will contain only a small amount of storage space. In p articular, the CPU
contains a constant number of registers, each capable of spe cifying memory addresses
(i.e., the size of each register is at least equal to the logar ithm of the number of storage
cells), and a special register with a cryptographic key. We r equire only the CPU (with
a ﬁxed number of registers) to be physically shielded, while all the other components
of the computer, including the memory in which the encrypted program and data are
stored, need not be shielded. We note that the technology to p hysically shield (at
least to some degree) the CPU (which, in practice, is a single computer chip) does
already exist – indeed, every ATM bank machine has such a prot ected chip. Thus,
the SH-package employs feasible software and hardware meas ures [Be, K].
Using encryption to keep the contents of the memory secret is certainly a step
in the right direction. However, as we will shortly see, this does not provide the
protection one may want. In particular, the addresses of the memory cells accessed
during the execution are not kept secret. This may reveal to a n observer essential
4

properties of the program (e.g. its loop structure), and in s ome cases may even allow
him to easily reconstruct it. Thus, we view the above setting (i.e. the SH-package) as
the starting point for the study of software protection, rat her than as a satisfactory
solution. In fact, we will use this setting as the framework f or our investigations,
which are concerned with the following key question: What can the user learn about
the SH-package he bought?
1.1.2 Learning by Executing the SH-package
Our setting consists of an encrypted program, a shielded CPU (containing a con-
stant number of registers), a memory module, and an “adversa ry” user trying to
learn about the program. The CPU and memory communicate thro ugh a channel in
the traditional manner. That is, in response to a F ET CH(i) message the memory
answers with the contents of the i’th cell; while in response to a ST ORE(v, j ) the
memory stores value v in cell j. Our “worst-case” adversary can read and alter the
communication between CPU and memory, as well as inspect and modify the contents
of the memory. However, the adversary cannot inspect or modi fy the contents of the
CPU’s registers.
The adversary tries to learn by conducting experiments with the hardware-software
conﬁguration. An experiment consists of initiating an execution of the (shielded) CPU
on the encrypted program and a selected (by the adversary) in put, and watching (and
possibly modifying) both the memory contents and the commun ication between CPU
and memory.
Given the above setting the question is what information sho uld the adversary be
prevented from learning, when conducting such experiments ? To motivate the answer
to this question, let us consider the following hypothetica l scenario. Suppose you are
a software producer selling a protected program which took y ou an enormous eﬀort
to write. Your competitor purchases your program, experime nts with it widely and
learns some partial information about your implementation . Intuitively, if the infor-
mation he gains, through experimentation with your protect ed program, simpliﬁes
his task of writing a competing software package then the pro tection scheme has to
be considered insecure. Thus, informally, software protec tion should mean that the
task of reconstructing functionally equivalent copies of t he SH-package is not easier
when given the SH-package than when only given the speciﬁcat ion for the package.
That is, software protection is secure if whatever any polyn omial-time adversary can
do when having access to an (encrypted) program running on a s hielded CPU, he
can also do when having access to a “speciﬁcation oracle” (su ch an oracle, on any
input, answers with the “corresponding” output and running -time). Essentially, the
5

protected program must behave like a black box which, on any i nput, “hums” for a
while and returns an output such that no information except i ts I/O behavior and
running time can be extracted. Jumping ahead, we note that in order to meet such
security standards, not only the values stored in the genera l-purpose memory must be
hidden (e.g., by using encryption), but also the sequence in which memory locations
are accessed during program execution must be hidden. In fac t, if the “memory access
pattern” is not hidden then program characteristics such as its “loop structure” may
be revealed to the adversary, and such information may be ver y useful in some cases
for simplifying the task of writing a competing program. To p revent this, the memory
access pattern should be independent of the program which is being executed.
Informally, we say that a CPU defeats experiments with corresponding encrypted
programs if no probabilistic polynomial-time adversary can distinguish 1 the following
two cases when given an encrypted program as input:
• The adversary is experimenting with the genuine shielded CPU , which is trying
to execute the encrypted program through the memory.
• The adversary is experimenting with a fake CPU . The interactions of the fake
CPU with the memory are almost identical to those that the gen uine CPU
would have had with the memory when executing a (ﬁxed) dummy p rogram
(e.g. while TRUE do skip. ) The execution of the dummy program is timed-out
by the number of steps of the real program. When timed-out, th e fake CPU
(magically) writes to the memory the same output that the gen uine CPU would
have written on the “real” program (and the same input).
We stress that, in the general case, the adversary may modify the communication
between CPU and memory (as well as modify the contents of memo ry cells) in any
way he wants. When we wish to stress that the SH-package defea ts experiments by
such adversaries, we say that the SH-package defeats tampering experiments. We
shall refer to the special case, in which the adversary is onl y allowed to inspect the
CPU-memory communication and the contents of memory cells, as the CH-package
defeating non-tampering experiment
1.1.3 An Eﬃcient CPU Which Defeats Experimenets
The problem of constructing a CPU which defeats experiments is not an easy one.
There are two issues: The ﬁrst issue is to hide from the adversary the values stored
1in this paper, we shall use standard (statistical and comput ational) notions of indistinguishabil-
ity, as deﬁned, for example, in [GM].
6

and retrieved from memory, and to prevent the adversary’s at tempts to change these
values. This is done by an innovative use of traditional cryptograp hic techniques
(e.g., probabilistic encryption [GM] and message authenti cation [GGM]). The second
issue is to hide (from the adversary) the sequence of address es accessed during the
execution (hereafter referred as hiding the access pattern ).
Hiding the (original) memory access pattern is a completely new problem and
traditional cryptographic techniques are not applicable t o it. The goal is to make
it infeasible for the adversary to learn anything useful abo ut the program from its
access pattern. To this end, the CPU will not execute the prog ram in the ordinary
manner, but instead will replace each original fetch/store cycle by many fetch/store
cycles. This will hopefully “confuse” the adversary and pre vent him from “learning”
the original sequence of memory-accesses (from the actual s equence of memory ac-
cesses). Consequently, the adversary can not improve his ab ility of reconstructing the
program.
Nothing comes without a price. What is the price one has to pay for protecting
the software? The answer is “speed”. The protected program w ill run slower then the
unprotected one. What is the minimal slowdown we can achieve without sacriﬁcing
the security of the protection? Informally, software protection overhead is deﬁned as
the number of steps the protected program makes per each step of the source-code
program. In this paper, we show that this overhead is polynom ially related to the
security parameter of a one-way function. Namely,
THEOREM A (Informal statement): Suppose that one-way functions exist, and let k
be a security parameter. There exists an eﬃcient way of trans forming programs into pairs
consisting of a physically protected CPU, with k bits of internal-(“shielded”)-memory, and
a corresponding “encrypted” program, so that the CPU defeat s poly(k)-time experiments
with the “encrypted” program. Furthermore, t instructions of the original program are
executed using less than t·kO(1) instructions (of the “encrypted” program), and the
blowup in the size of the external memory is also bounded by a f actor of k. (We stress
that this scheme defeats tampering experiments.)
The above result is proved by reducing the problem of constru cting a CPU which
defeats (tampering) experiments to the problem of hiding th e access pattern, and
solving the later problem eﬃciently. As a matter of fact, we f ormulate the latter
problem as an on-line simulation of arbitrary RAMs by an obli vious RAM (see below).
7

1.2 Simulations by Oblivious RAMs
A machine is oblivious if the sequence in which it accesses memory locations is equi va-
lent for any two inputs with the same running time. For exampl e, an oblivious Turing
Machine is one for which the movement of the heads on the tapes is identical for each
computation (i.e., is independent of the actual input). We a re interested in trans-
formations of arbitrary machines into equivalent obliviou s machines (i.e., oblivious
machines computing the same function). For every reasonabl e model of computation
such a transformation does exist. The question is its cost: n amely, the slowdown in
the running time of the oblivious machine (when compared to t he original machine).
In 1979 Pippenger and Fischer [PF] showed how a one-tape Turi ng Machine can be
simulated, on-line, by a two-tape oblivious Turing Machine, with a logarithmic slow-
down in the running time. We study an analogue question for ra ndom-access machine
(RAM) model of computation.
To see that it is possible to completely hide the access pattern consider the follow-
ing solution: when a variable needs to be accessed, we read an d rewrite the contents
of every memory cell (in some ﬁxed order). If the program terminates a fter t steps,
and the size of memory is m, the above solution runs for ( t·m) steps, thus, having a
O(m) overhead.
If the running time of the original program is smaller then th e total memory size
then we can do better. Instead of storing data in memory “dire ctly”, we build an
address-value look-up table of size max{n, t}, where n is the length of the input, and
scan only this table. Thus, the scheme which we described abo ve does not need to
scan the entire memory for each original access — it can scan O(t + n) locations only.
(Moreover, the above algorithm need not know what t is. It simply builds a look-up
table by adding a new entry for each original step, so that at a ny time ti it has O(ti)
entries in it.) Assuming t > n , this method runs for O(t2) steps, and yields an O(t)
overhead. Can the same level of “security” be achieved at a mo re moderate cost?
The answer is no if the scheme is deterministic. That is, the simulation is optimal
if the CPU is not allowed random moves (or if obliviousness is interpreted in a deter-
ministic manner). Fortunately, much more eﬃcient simulati on exist when allowing
CPU to be probabilistic2. Thus, in deﬁning an oblivious RAM, we interpret oblivious-
ness in a probabilistic manner. Namely, we require that the p robability distribution
of certain actions (deﬁned over the RAM’s input and coin toss es) is independent of
2By probabilistic CPU we mean a CPU which has access to a random oracle. Jumping ahea d, we
note that assuming the existence of one-way functions enabl es to implement such a random oracle
by using only a short random seed, and hence our strong probab ilistic machine can be implemented
by an ordinary one.
8

the input. Speciﬁcally, we deﬁne an oblivious RAM to be a probabilistic RAM for
which the probability distribution of the sequence of (memo ry) addresses accessed
during an execution depends only on the input length (i.e., i s independent of the
particular input.) In other words, suppose the inputs are ch osen with some arbitrary
ﬁxed distribution D. Then for any D, the conditional probability for a particular
input given a sequence of memory accesses which occurs durin g an execution on that
input, equals the a-priori probability for that particular input according to D.
The solution of [PF] for making a single-tape Turing Machine oblivious heavily
relies on the fact that the movement of the (single-tape Turi ng Machine) head is very
“local” (i.e., immediately after accessing location i, a single-tape Turing-Machine is
only able to access locations i− 1, i, i + 1). On the other hand, the main strength
of a random-access machine (RAM) model is its ability to inst antaneously access
arbitrary locations of its memory. Nevertheless, we show an analogue result for the
random-access machine model of computation:
THEOREM B (Main Result — Informal statement): Let RAM (m) denote a RAM
with m memory locations and access to a random oracle. Then t steps of an arbitrary
RAM(m) program can be simulated (on-line) by less than O(t·(log2 t)3) steps of an
oblivious RAM (m·(log2 m)2).
That is, we show how to do an on-line simulation of an arbitrary RAM program
by an Oblivious RAM incurring only a poly-logarithmic slowd own. We stress that
the slowdown is a (poly-logarithmic) function of the progra m running time, rather
than being a (poly-logarithmic) function of the memory size (which is typically much
bigger than the program running time).
On the negative side, a simple combinatorial argument shows that any oblivious
simulation of arbitrary RAMs should have an average Ω(log t) overhead:
THEOREM C (Informal statement): Let RAM(m) be as in Theorem B. Every oblivi-
ous simulation of RAM( m) must make at least max{m, (t− 1)·log2 m} accesses in order
to simulate t steps.
So far, we have discussed the issue of oblivious computation in a setting in which
the observer is passive. A more challenging setting, motiva ted by some applications
(e.g., software protection as treated in this paper), is one in which the observer (or
adversary) is actively trying to get information by tampering with (i. e., modifying)
the memory locations during computation. Clearly, such an a ctive adversary can
drastically alter the computation (e.g., by erasing the ent ire contents of the memory).
Yet, the question is whether even in such a case we can guarant ee that the aﬀect of
9

the adversary is oblivious of the input. Informally, we say t hat the simulation of a
RAM on an oblivious RAM is tamper-proof if the simulation remains oblivious (i.e.
does not reveal anything about the input except its length) e ven in case when an
inﬁnitely-powerful adversary examines and alters memory c ontents. A tamper-proof
simulation means that either the tampered execution (of the oblivious machine) will
equal the untampered execution for all the possible inputs o f equal length or the
tampered execution will be detected as faulty and suspended .
THEOREM D (Informal statement): Let RAM(m) be as in Theorem B. Then t steps
of an arbitrary RAM (m) program can be tamper-proof simulated (on-line) by less tha n
O(t·(log2 t)3) steps of an oblivious RAM (m·(log2 m)2).
We stress that there are no complexity-theoretic assumptio ns in the above the-
orems. In practice, we substitute access to a random oracle b y a pseudo-random
function, which assuming the existence of one-way function s, can be implemented
using a short randomly chosen seed (cf. [BM, Y, ILL, H], and [G GM]). The resulting
simulation will be oblivious with respect to adversaries wh ich are restricted to time
that is polynomial in the length of the seed.
Our construction yields a technique of eﬃciently hiding the access pattern into any
data-structure. In addition to software protection, our te chnique can be applied to
the problem of hiding the traﬃc pattern of a distributed database and to the problem
of data-structure checking.
1.3 Notes Concerning The Exposition
For simplicity of exposition, we present all the deﬁnitions and results in the rest
of the paper in terms of machines having access to a random ora cle. In practice,
such machines can be implemented using pseudo-random funct ions, and the results
will remain valid provided that the corresponding adversar y is restricted to eﬃcient
computations. Detailed comments concerning such implemen tations will be given in
the corresponding sections. Here, we merely recall that pse udo-random functions can
be constructed using pseudo-random generators (cf. Goldre ich et. al. [GGM]), and
that the later can be constructed provided that one-way func tions exist (cf. Blum
and Micali [BM], Yao [Y], Impagliazzo et. al. [ILL], and Hast ad [H]). Speciﬁcally,
assuming the existence of one-way functions, one can constr uct a collection of pseudo-
random functions with the following properties.
10

• For every n, the collection contains 2 n functions, each mapping n-bit strings to
n-bit strings, and furthermore each function is represented by a unique n-bit
long string.
• There exists a polynomial-time and linear-space algorithm that on input a rep-
resentation of a function f and an admissible argument x, returns f (x).
• No probabilistic polynomial-time machine can, on input 1 n and access to a
function f :{0, 1}n↦→{0, 1}n, distinguish the following two cases:
1. The function f is uniformly chosen in the pseudo-random collection (i.e.,
among the 2 n functions mapping n-bit strings to n-bit strings).
2. The function f is uniformly chosen among all (2 n2n
) functions mapping
n-bit strings to n-bit strings.
Another simplifying convention, used in this paper, is the a ssociation of the size of
the physically protected work space (internal to the CPU) wi th the size of the main
memory. Speciﬁcally, we commonly consider a CPU with O(k) bits of physically
protected work space together with a main memory consisting of 2 k words (of size
O(k) each). In practice, the gap, between the size of protected w ork space and
unprotected memory, may be smaller (especially since the pr otected space is used to
store “cryptographic keys”). Speciﬁcally, we may consider a protected work space of
size n and an physically unprotected memory consisting of 2 k words, provided n≥ k
(which guarantees that the CPU can hold pointers into the mem ory). It is easy to
extend our treatment to this setting. In particular, all the transformations presented
in the sequel do not depend on the size of the CPU (but rather on the size of the
memory and on the running time).
2 Model and Deﬁnitions
2.1 Overview
In this chapter we deﬁne the notions discussed in the Introdu ction. To this end,
we ﬁrst present a deﬁnition which views the RAM model as a pair of (appropriately
resource bounded) interactive machines . This deﬁnition is presented in Subsection
2.2. Using the new way of looking at the RAM model, we deﬁne the two notions
which are central to this paper: the notion of software protection (see Subsection
2.3), and simulation by an oblivious RAM (see Subsection 2.4). Subsections 2.3 and
2.4 can be read independently of each other.
11

2.2 RAMs as Interactive Machines
2.2.1 The Basic Model
Our concept of a RAM is the standard one (i.e., as presented in [AHU]). However,
we decouple the RAM into two interactive machines, the CPU an d the memory
module, in order to explicitly discuss the interaction betw een the two. We begin
with a deﬁnition of Interactive Turing-Machine ( itm), where the formalization of
Interactive Turing-Machines is due to Manuel Blum (private communication), and
ﬁrst appeared in the work of Goldwasser, Micali and Rackoﬀ [G MR]. We modify it
with explicit bounds on the length of “messages” and on the si ze of work tape.
Deﬁnition 1 (interactive machines with bounded messages and bounded
work space): An Interactive Turing Machine is a multi-tape Turing Machine
having the following tapes:
• a read-only input tape ;
• a write-only output tape ;
• a read-and-write work tape ;
• a read-only communication tape ; and
• a write-only communication tape .
where by IT M (c, w ) we denote a machine as speciﬁed above with a work tape of lengt h
w, and communication tapes each partitioned into c-bit long blocks, which operates as
follows. The execution of IT M (c, w ) on input y starts with the itm copying y into the
ﬁrst |y| cells of its work tape. (In case |y| >|w|, execution is suspended immediately.)
Afterwards, the machine works in rounds. At the beginning of each round, the machine
reads the next c-bit block from its read-only communication tape. The block is called the
message received in the current round. After some internal computation (util izing its
work tape), the round is completed with the machine writing c bits (called the message
sent in the current round) onto its write-only communication tap e. The execution of the
machine may terminate at some point with the machine copying a preﬁx of its work tape
to its output tape.
Now, we can deﬁne both the CPU and the memory as Interactive Tu ring Machines
which “interact” with each other. To this end, we deﬁne both t he cpu and the
memory as itms, and associate the read-only communication tape of the cpu with
the write-only communication tape of the memory, and vice versa (cf. [GMR]). In
addition, both cpu and memory will have the same message length, however they
12

will have drastically diﬀerent work tape size and ﬁnite cont rol. The memory will
have a work tape of size exponential in the message length, wh ereas the cpu will
have a work tape of size linear in the message length. Intuiti vely, the memory’s
work tape corresponds to a “memory” module in the ordinary se nse; whereas the
work tape of the cpu corresponds to a constant number of “registers”, each capab le
of holding a pointer into the memory’s work tape. Each message may contain an
“address” in the memory’s work tape and/or the contents of a cpu “register”. The
ﬁnite control of the memory is unique, representing the traditional responses to the
cpu “requests”, whereas the ﬁnite control of the cpu varies from one cpu to another.
Intuitively, diﬀerent cpus correspond to diﬀerent universal machines. Finally, we us e
k as a parameter determining both the message length and work t ape size of both
memory and cpu.
Deﬁnition 2 (memory): For every k∈ I Nwe deﬁne M EMk is the IT M (O(k), 2kO(k))
operating as hereby speciﬁed. It partitions its work tape in to 2k words, each of size
O(k). After copying its input to its work tape, the machine M EM k is message driven.
Upon receiving a message (i, a, v ), where i∈{ “store” , “fetch” , “halt”} (an instruction),
a∈{ 0, 1}k (an address) and v∈{ 0, 1}O(k) (a value), machine M EMk acts as follows:
• if i = “store” then machine M EM k copies the value v from the current message
into word number a of its work tape.
• if i = “fetch” then machine M EM k sends a message consisting of the current
contents of word number a (of its work tape).
• if i = “halt” then machine M EM k copies a preﬁx of its work tape (until a special
symbol) to its output tape, and halts.
The 2 k words of memory correspond to a “virtual memory” consisting of all possible
2k addresses that can be speciﬁed by a k-bit long “register”. We remark that the “ac-
tual memory” available in hardware may be much smaller (say, have size polynomial
in k). Clearly, “actual memory” of size S suﬃce in applications which do not require
the concurrent storage of more than S items.
Deﬁnition 3 (cpu): For every k∈ I Nwe deﬁne CP U k is an IT M (O(k), O (k)) operat-
ing as hereby speciﬁed. After copying its input to its work ta pe, machine CP U k conducts
a computation on its work tape, and sends a message determine d by this computation.
In subsequent rounds, CP U k is message driven. Upon receiving a new message, machine
CP U k copies the message to its work tape, and based on its computat ion on the work
tape, sends a message. In case the CP U k sends a “halt” message, the CP U k halts
13

immediately (with no output). The number of steps in each com putation on the work
tape is bounded by a ﬁxed polynomial in k.
The only role of the input to cpu is to trigger its execution with cpu registers initial-
ized, and this input may be ignored in the subsequent treatme nt. The (“internal”)
computation of the cpu, in each round, corresponds to elementary register operati ons.
Hence, the number of steps taken in each such computation is a ﬁxed polynomial in the
register length (recall that the register length is O(k)) corresponding to the primitive
“hardwired” cpu computations. We can now deﬁne the RAM model of computation.
We deﬁne ram as a family of RAM k machines for every k:
Deﬁnition 4 (ram): For every k∈ I Nwe deﬁne RAM k is a pair of (CP U k, M EM k),
where CP U k’s read-only message tape coincides with M EMk’s write-only message tape,
and CP U k’s write-only message tape coincides with M EMk’s read-only message tape.
The input to RAM k is a pair (s, y ), where s is an (initialization) input for CP U k, and
y is input to M EM k. (Without loss of generality, s may be a ﬁxed “start symbol”.)
The output of RAM k on input (s, y ), denoted RAM k(s, y ), is deﬁned as the output of
M EM k(y) when interacting with CP U k(s).
To view ram as a universal machine, we separate the input y to M EM k into “pro-
gram” and “data”. That is, the input y to the memory is partitioned (by a special
symbol) into two parts, called the program (denoted by Π) and the data (denoted x).
Deﬁnition 5 (running programs on ram) : Given RAM k, s, y where y = (Π , x ).
We deﬁne the output of program Π on data x, denoted Π( x), as RAM k(s, y ).
We deﬁne the running time of Π on x, denoted tΠ (x), as the sum of |y| +|Π( x)|
and the number of rounds in the computation RAM k(s, y ). We deﬁne the storage-
requirement of program Π on data x, denote sΠ (x), as the maximum of |y| and
the number of diﬀerent addresses appearing in messages sent by CP U k to M EMk during
the computation RAM k(s, y ).
It is easy to see that the above formalization directly corre sponds to Random-
Access Machine model of computation. Hence, the “execution of Π on x” corresponds
to the message exchange rounds in the computation of RAM k(·, (Π , x )). The additive
term|y| +|Π( x)| in tΠ (x) accounts for the time spent in reading the input and writing
the output, whereas each message exchange round represents a single cycle in the
traditional RAM model. The term |y| in sΠ (x) accounts for the initial space taken
by the input, whereas the other term accounts for “memory cel ls accessed by cpu
during the actual computation”.
14

Remark: Without loss of generality, we can assume that the running ti me, t(y), is
always greater than the length of the input (i.e., |y|). Under this assumption, we may
ignore the “loading time” (represented by |y| +|Π( x)|), and count only the number
of machine cycles in the execution of Π on x (i.e., the number of rounds of message
exchange between CP U k and M EMk).
Remark: The memory consumption of Π at a particular point during the e xecution
on data x, is deﬁned in the natural manner. Initially the memory consu mption
equals|(Π , x )|, and the memory consumption may grow as computation progres ses.
However, after executing t machine cycles, the memory consumption is bounded by
max{t,|(Π , x )|}.
2.2.2 Augmentations to the Basic Model
Probabilistic RAMs
Probabilistic computations play a central role in this work . In particular, our results
are stated for rams which are probabilistic in a very strong sense. Namely, the cpu
in these machines has access to a random oracle. We stress tha t providing ram with
access to a random oracle is more powerful than providing it w ith ability to toss
coins. Intuitively, access to a random oracle allows the cpu to “record” the outcome
of its coin tosses “for free”! However, as stated in the intro duction, random oracles
(functions) can be eﬃciently implemented by pseudo-random functions (and these
can be constructed at the cost of tossing and storing in CPU registers only a small
number of coins), provided that one-way function exist.
Remark: Notice that in practice, we utilize input to the cpu to store a seed of a
pseudo-random function during initialization.
Deﬁnition 6 (oracle / probabilistic cpu): For every k∈ I Nwe deﬁne an oracle-
CP U k is a CP U k with two additional tapes, called the oracle tapes . One of these
tapes is read-only, whereas the other is write-only. Each ti me the machine enters a
special oracle invocation state, the contents of the read-only oracle tape is changed
instantaneously (i.e., in a single step), and the machine passes to another sp ecial state.
The string written on the write-only oracle tape between two oracle invocations is called
the query corresponding to the last invocation. We say that this CP U k has access to
the function f if when invoked with query q, the oracle replies by changing the contents
of the read-only oracle tape to f (q). A probabilistic-CP U k is an oracle CP U k with
access to a uniformly selected function.
15

Deﬁnition 7 (oracle / probabilistic ram): For every k ∈ I Nwe deﬁne an
oracle-RAM k is a RAM k in which CP U k is replaced by an oracle- CP U k. We say
that this RAM k has access to the function f if its CP U k has access to the function f
and we write RAM f
k. A probabilistic-RAM k is a RAM k in which CP U k is replaced
by a probabilistic- CP U k. (In other words, a probabilistic-RAM k is a oracle- RAM k with
access to a uniformly selected function.)
Repeated Executions of RAMs
For our treatment of software protection, we use repeated ex ecution of the “same”
ram on several inputs. Our intention is that the ram starts its next execution
with the work tapes of both cpu and memory having contents identical to their
contents at termination of the previous execution. This is i ndeed what happens
in practice, yet the standard abstract formulation usually ignores this point, which
requires cumbersome treatment.
Deﬁnition 8 (repeated executions of ram): For every k∈ I N, by repeated
executions of RAM k, on the inputs sequence y1, y 2, ... , we mean a sequence of compu-
tations of RAM k so that the ﬁrst computation starts with input y1 when the work tapes
of both CP U k and M EM k are empty, and the ith computation starts with input yi when
the work tape of each machine (i.e., CP U k and M EMk) contains the same string it has
contained at the termination of the i− 1st computation.
2.3 Deﬁnition of Software Protection
In this Section we deﬁne software protection. Loosely speak ing, a scheme for soft-
ware protection is a transformation of ram programs into functionally equivalent
programs for a corresponding ram so that the resulting program- ram pair “foils
adversarial attempts to learn something substantial about the original program (be-
yond its speciﬁcations)”. Our formulation of software prot ection should answer the
following questions:
1. What can the adversary do (in the course of its attempts to lea rn)?
2. What is substantial knowledge about a program?
3. What is a speciﬁcation of a program?
Our approach in answering the above questions is the most pes simistic (and hence
conservative) one: among all possible malicious behavior, we consider the most diﬃ-
cult, and most malicious, worst case scenario. That is, we assume that the adversary
16

can run the transformed program on the ram on arbitrary data of its choice, and
can modify the messages between the cpu and memory in an arbitrary and adap-
tive manner 3. Moreover, since we consider the worst case scenario, we interpret the
release of any information about the original program, which is not implie d by its
input/output relation and time/space complexity as substa ntial learning. Clearly,
the input/output relation and time/space complexity of the program are not secret
(as the software is purchased based on an announcement of thi s information).
2.3.1 Experimenting With a RAM
We consider two types of adversaries. Both can repeatedly in itiate the ram on inputs
of their choice. The diﬀerence between the two types of adver saries is in their ability
to modify the cpu-memory communication tapes during these computation (which
correspond to interactions of cpu with memory). A tampering adversary is allowed
both to read and write to these tapes (i.e., inspect and alter the messages sent in an
adaptive fashion), whereas a non-tampering adversary is only allowed to read these
tapes (i.e., inspect the messages).
Remark: In both cases it is redundant to allow the adversary to have th e same
access rights to the memory’s work tape, since the contents of this tape is totally
determined by the initial input and the messages sent by the cpu.
We stress that in both cases the adversary has no access to the internal tapes of
the cpu (i.e., the work tape and the oracle tape of the cpu).
For the sake of simplicity, we concentrate on adversaries with exponentially bounded
running-time. Speciﬁcally, the running-time of the advers ary is bounded above by
2n, where n is the size of the cpu’s work tape. We note that the time bound on
the adversary is used only in order to bound the number of step s taken by the ram
with which adv experiments. In practice, the adversary will be even more re stricted
(speciﬁcally to working in time polynomial in the length of t he cpu’s work tape).
Deﬁnition 9 (A non-tampering adversary): A non-tampering adversary ,
(which we denote as adv), is a probabilistic machine that, on input k (a parameter) and
α (an “encrypted program”), is given the following access to a n oracle-RAM k. Machine
adv can initiate repeated execution of RAM k on inputs of its choice, as long as its total
running time is bounded by 2O(k). During each of these executions, machine adv has
read-only access to the communication tapes between CP U k and M EM k.
3 Recall that in our model, even the worst-case adversary is no t allowed to read the internal work
tape of the cpu since the cpu models a “physically shielded” CPU (see Introduction).
17

Deﬁnition 10 (A tampering adversary): A tampering adversary , (which we
denote as adv), is a probabilistic machine that, on input k (a parameter) and α (an
“encrypted program”), is given the following access to an or acle-RAM k. Machine adv
can initiate repeated execution of RAM k on inputs of its choice, as long as its total
running time is bounded by 2O(k). During each of these executions, machine adv has
read and write access to the communication tapes between CP U k and M EMk.
2.3.2 Software Protecting Transformations
We deﬁne transformations on programs (i.e., compilers) whi ch given a program, Π,
produce a pair ( f, Π f ) so that f is a randomly chosen function and Π f is an “encrypted
program” which corresponds to Π and f . Here, we have in mind an oracle- ram that
on input (Π f , x ) and access to oracle f , simulates the execution of Π on data x, so
that this simulation “protects” the original program Π. The reader may be annoyed,
at this point, at the fact that the transformation produces a random function f which
may have an unbounded (or “huge”) description. However, in p ractice, the function
f will be pseudo-random [GGM], and will have a succinct descri ption as discussed in
the Introduction.
We start by deﬁning compilers as transformations of program s into (program,oracle)
pairs, which when executed by an oracle- ram are functionally equivalent to execu-
tions of the original programs.
Deﬁnition 11 (compiler): A compiler, (which we denote as C), is a probabilistic
mapping that on input an integer parameter k and a program Π for RAM k, returns a
pair (f, Π f ), so that
• f is a randomly selected Boolean function (i.e., mapping bit- strings into a bit);
• |Π f| = O(|Π|).
• For some k′ = k + O(log k) there exists an oracle- RAM k′ so that, for every Π ,
every f and every x∈{ 0, 1}∗, initiating RAM k′ on input (Π f , x ) and access to
the oracle f yields output Π( x).
The oracle-RAM k′ diﬀers from RAM k in several aspects. Most noticeably, RAM k′
has access to an oracle whereas RAM k does not. It is also clear that RAM k′ has
a larger memory: RAM k′’s memory consists of 2 k′
= poly( k)·2k words, whereas
RAM k’s memory consists of 2 k words. In addition, the length of the memory words
in the two rams may diﬀer (and in fact will diﬀer in the transformations we p resent),
and so may the internal computations of the cpu conducted in each round . Still,
both rams have memory words of length linear in the parameter (i.e., k′ and k,
18

respectively), and conduct internal cpu computations which are polynomial in this
parameter.
Compilers as deﬁned above transform deterministic programs into “encrypted pro-
grams” which run on a probabilistic- ram (i.e., into “probabilistic programs”). It is
worthwhile to note that we can extend the above deﬁnition so t hat compilers can be
applied also to programs which make calls to oracles, and in p articular to programs
which make calls to random oracles. The results in this paper will remain valid for
such probabilistic programs as well. However, for simplicity of exposition we r estrict
ourselves to compilers which are applied only to determinis tic programs.
We now turn to deﬁning software-protecting compilers. Intu itively, a compiler
protects software if whatever can be computed after experim enting with the “en-
crypted program” can be computed, in about the same time, by a machine which
merely has access to a speciﬁcation of the original program. We ﬁrst deﬁne what is
meant by access to a speciﬁcation of a program.
Deﬁnition 12 (specification of programs): A speciﬁcation oracle for a
program Π is an oracle that on query x returns the triple (Π( x), t Π (x), s Π (x)).
Recall that tΠ (x) and sΠ (x) denote the running-time and space requirements of
program Π on data x. We are now ready for the main deﬁnition concerning software
protection. In this deﬁnition adv may be either a tampering or a non-tampering
adversary.
Deﬁnition 13 (software-protecting against a specific adversary): Given
a compiler (denoted as C) and an adversary (denoted as adv), we say that the the com-
piler, C, protects software against the adversary adv if there exists a probabilistic
oracle machine (in the standard sense), M, satisfying the following.
• (M operates in about the same time as adv): There exists a polynomial p(·) so
that, for every string α , the running-time of M on input (k′,|α|) (and access to
an arbitrary oracle) is bounded by p(k′)·T , where T denotes the running time of
adv when experimenting with RAM k′ on input α .
• (M with access to a speciﬁcation oracle produces output almost identical to the
output of adv after experimenting with the result of the compiler): For ev ery pro-
gram, Π , the statistical distance between the following two probab ility distributions
is bounded by 2−k′
.
1. The output distribution of adv when experimenting with RAM f
k′ on input
Π f , where (f, Π f )← C(Π) . By RAM f
k′ we mean an interactive (CP Uk′, M EM k′)
19

pair where CP Uk′ has access to oracle f . The distribution is over the proba-
bility space consisting of all possible choices of the funct ion f , and all possible
outcomes of the coin tosses of adv, with uniform probability distribution.
2. The output distribution of the oracle machine M on input (k′, O (|Π|)) and
access to a speciﬁcation oracle for Π . The distribution is over the probability
space consisting all possible outcomes of the coin tosses of machine M, with
uniform probability distribution.
Deﬁnition 14 (software-protecting compilers): The compiler, (which we de-
note as C), provides (weak) software protection if C protects software against
any non-tampering adversary. The compiler, C, provides tamper-proof software
protection if C protects software against any tampering adversary.
Next, we deﬁne the cost of software protection. We remind the reader that for the
sake of simplicity, we are conﬁning ourselves to programs Π w ith running time, tΠ ,
satisfying tΠ (x) >|Π| +|x|, for all x.
Deﬁnition 15 (overhead of compilers): Let C be a compiler, and g : I N↦→I N
be a function. We say that the overhead of C is at most g if for every Π , every
x∈{ 0, 1}∗, and every randomly selected f , the expected running time of RAM k′, on
input (Π f , x ) and access to the oracle f , is bounded above by g(T )·T , where T = tΠ (x).
Remark: An alternative deﬁnition of the overhead of compilers follo ws. We say that
the overhead of C is at most g if for every Π, every x∈{ 0, 1}∗, and a randomly
selected f , the running time of RAM k′, on input (Π f , x ) and access to the oracle f ,
is greater than g(T )·T with probability bounded above by 2 −T , where T = tΠ (x).
The results presented in this paper hold for this deﬁnition a s well.
2.4 Deﬁnition of Oblivious RAM and Oblivious Simulations
The ﬁnal goal of this Section is to deﬁne oblivious simulatio ns of rams. To this end
we ﬁrst deﬁne oblivious rams. Loosely speaking, the “memory access pattern” in an
oblivious ram, on each input, depends only on their running time (on this in put).
We next deﬁne what is meant by a simulation of one ram on another. Finally, we
deﬁne oblivious simulation as having a “memory access patte rn” which depends only
on the running time of the original (i.e., “simulated”) mach ine.
20

2.4.1 Oblivious RAMs
We begin by deﬁning the access pattern as the sequence of memory locations which
the cpu accesses during computation. This deﬁnition applies also t o an oracle- cpu.
(Recall from the deﬁnitions (3, 2, 4) that cpu interaction with memory is a sequence
of triples ( i, a, v ) of “instruction”, “address” and “value” respectively.)
Deﬁnition 16 (access pattern): The access pattern , denoted Ak(y), of a ( de-
terministic) RAM k on input y is a sequence (a1, . . . , a i, . . . ), such that for every i, the
ith message sent by CP U k, when interacting with M EMk(y), is of the form (·, a i,·).
(Similarly, we can deﬁne the access pattern of an oracle-RAM k on a speciﬁc input y and
access to a speciﬁc function f .)
Considering probabilistic-rams, we deﬁne a random variable which for every possible
function f assigns the access pattern which corresponds to computatio ns in which
the ram has access to this function. Namely,
Deﬁnition 17 (access pattern of a probabilistic-ram): The access pat-
tern, denoted ~Ak(y), of a probabilistic-RAM k on input y is a random variable
which assumes the value of the access pattern of RAM k on a speciﬁc input y and access
to a uniformly selected function f .
Now, we are ready the deﬁne an oblivious RAM. We deﬁne an oblivious RAM
to be a probabilistic RAM for which the probability distribu tion of the sequence of
(memory) addresses accessed during an execution depends on ly on the running time
(i.e., is independent of the particular input).
Deﬁnition 18 (oblivious ram): For every k∈ I Nwe deﬁne an oblivious RAM k
is a probabilistic- RAM k satisfying the following condition. For every two strings, y1 and
y2, if| ~Ak(y1)| and| ~Ak(y2)| are identically distributed then so are ~Ak(y1) and ~Ak(y2).
Intuitively, the sequence of memory accesses of an obliviou s RAM k reveals no
information about the input (to the RAM k), beyond the running-time for the input.
2.4.2 Oblivious Simulation
Now, that we have deﬁned both ram and oblivious ram, it is left only to specify
what is meant by an oblivious simulation of an arbitrary ram program on an obliv-
ious ram. Our notion of simulation is a minimal one: it only requires t hat both
21

machines compute the same function. The ram simulations presented in the sequel
are simulations in a much stronger sense: speciﬁcally, they are “on-line”. On the other
hand, an oblivious simulation of a ram is not merely a simulation by an oblivious
ram. In addition we require that inputs having identical runnin g time on the original
ram, maintain identical running-time on the oblivious ram (so that the obliviously
condition applies to them in a non-vacuous manner). For the s ake of simplicity, we
present only deﬁnitions for oblivious simulation of determ inistic rams.
Deﬁnition 19 (oblivious simulation of ram): Given probabilistic- RAM ′k′, and
RAM k, we say that a probabilistic- RAM ′k′, obliviously simulates RAM k if the
following conditions hold.
• The probabilistic- RAM ′k′ simulates RAM k with probability 1. In other words,
for every input y, and every choice of a (oracle) function f , the output of oracle-
RAM ′k′, on input y and access to oracle f , equals the output of RAM k on input
y.
• The probabilistic-RAM ′k′ is oblivious. (We stress that we refer here to the access
pattern of RAM ′k′ on a ﬁxed input and randomly chosen oracle function.)
• The expected running-time of probabilistic- RAM ′k′ (on input y) is determined by
the running-time of RAM k (on input y). (Here again we refer to the behavior
of RAM ′k′ on a ﬁxed input and a randomly chosen oracle function.)
Hence, the access pattern in an oblivious simulation (which is a random variable
deﬁned over the choice of the random oracle) has a distributi on depending only on the
running-time of the original machine. Namely, let ~Ak′
(y) denote the access pattern
in an oblivious simulation of the computation of RAM k on input y. Then, ~Ak′
(y1)
and ~Ak′
(y2) are identically distributed if the running time of RAM k on these inputs
is identical.
We note that in order to deﬁne oblivious simulations of oracl e-rams, we have to
supply the simulating ram with two oracles (i.e., one identical to the oracle of the
simulated machine and the other being a random oracle). Of co urse, these two oracles
can be incorporated into one, but in any case the formulation will be slightly more
cumbersome.
We now turn to deﬁne the overhead of oblivious simulations.
Deﬁnition 20 (overhead of oblivious simulations): Given probabilistic-RAM ′k′,
RAM k, and suppose that a probabilistic- RAM ′k′ obliviously simulates the computations
of RAM k, and let g : I N↦→I Nbe a function. We say that the overhead of the
22

simulation is at most g if, for every y, the expected running time of RAM ′k′ on input
y is bounded above by g(T )·T , where T denotes the running-time of RAM k on input y.
2.4.3 Time-labeled Simulations
Finally, we present a property of some ram simulations. This property is satisﬁed
by the oblivious simulations we present in the sequel, and is essential to our solution
to tamper-proof software-protection 4 (since this solution is reduced to oblivious sim-
ulations having this extra property). Loosely speaking, th e property requires that
whenever retrieving a value from a memory cell, the cpu “knows” how many times
the contents of this cell has been updated. That is, given any memory address a,
and the total number of instructions j executed by the cpu so-far, the total number
of times cpu executed “store” command into location a can be eﬃciently computed
by an algorithm Q(j, a ). Again, we consider only simulation of deterministic rams.
Deﬁnition 21 (time-labeled simulation of ram): Given oracle-RAM ′k′, RAM k,
and suppose that an oracle- RAM ′k′, with access to oracle f ′, simulates the computations
of RAM k. We say that the simulation is time-labeled if there exists an O(k′)-time al-
gorithm Q(·,·) computable as an elementary CP U ′k′ computation such that the following
holds. Let (i, a, v ) be the jth message sent by CP U ′k′ (during repeated executions
of RAM ′k′). Then, the number of previous messages of the form (store, a, ·), sent by
CP U ′k′ is exactly Q(j, a ). Q(j, a ) is hereafter referred as the version(a) number at
round j.
3 Reducing Software Protection to Oblivious Sim-
ulation of RAMs
In this Section, we reduce the problem of software protectio n to the problem of
simulating a RAM on an Oblivious RAM. Note that the problem of simulation of
RAM on Oblivious RAM only deals with the problem of hiding the access pattern, and
completely ignores the fact that the memory contents and com munication between
CPU and memory is accessible to the adversary. To make matter s worse, a tampering
adversary is not only capable of inspecting the interaction between CPU and memory
during the simulation, but is also capable of modifying them. We start by reducing the
4 Our solution to the problem of weak software-protection (i. e., protection against non-tampering
adversaries) does not rely on this extra property, since it i s reduced to ordinary oblivious simulations
(as deﬁned above).
23

problem of achieving weak software protection (i.e., prote ction against non-tampering
adversaries) to the construction of oblivious ram simulation. We latter augment our
argument so that (tamper-proof) software protection is red uced to the construction
of oblivious time-labeled simulation.
3.1 Software Protection Against Non-Tampering Adversarie s
Recall that an adversary is called non-tampering if all he does is selects inputs, initi-
ates executions of the program on them and reads memory conte nts and communica-
tions between the CPU and the memory in such executions. With out loss of generality,
it suﬃces to consider adversaries which only read the commun ication tapes (since the
contents of memory cells is determined by the input and the co mmunication with the
CPU). Using an oblivious simulation of a universal ram, it only remains to hide the
contents of the “value ﬁeld” in the messages exchanged betwe en cpu and memory.
This is done using encryption which in turn is implemented us ing the random oracle.
Theorem 1 Let{RAM k}k∈I Nbe a probabilistic ram which constitutes an oblivious
simulation of a universal ram. Furthermore, suppose that t steps of the original ram are
simulated by less than t·g(t) steps of the oblivious ram. Then there exists a compiler,
that protects software against non-tampering adversaries , with overhead at most
O(g(t)).
Proof: The information available to a non-tampering adversary con sists of the mes-
sages exchanged between cpu and memory. Recall that messages from CP U k to
M EM k have the form ( i, a, v ), where i∈ {fetch, store, halt}, a∈ {1, 2, ..., 2k}
and v ∈{ 0, 1}O(k), whereas the messages from M EMk to CP U k are of the form
v∈{ 0, 1}O(k). In an oblivious simulation, by deﬁnition, the “address ﬁel d” (i.e., a)
yields no information about the input y = (Π f , x ). It is easy to eliminate the possibil-
ity that the “instruction ﬁeld” (i.e., i) yields any information, by modifying the cpu
so that it always accesses a memory location by ﬁrst fetching it and next storing in it
(possibly the same but “re-encrypted” value). Hence, all th at is left is to “encrypt”
the contents of the value ﬁeld (i.e. v), so that cpu can retrieve the original value.
The idea is to implement an encryption, using the oracle avai lable to the cpu. In
particular, the “encrypted program” will consist of the ori ginal program encrypted in
the same manner.
For encryption purposes, CP U k maintains a special counter, denoted encount, ini-
tialized to 0. We modify RAM k by providing it with an additional random oracle, de-
noted f . Clearly, the new random oracle can be combined with the rand om oracle used
24

in the oblivious simulation 5. Whenever CP U k needs to store a value (either an old
value which was just read or a new value) into memory M EMk, the counter encount
is incremented, and the value v is encrypted by the pair ( v⊕ f (encount), encount)
(where⊕ denotes the “exclusive-or” operation). When retrieving a p air ( u, j ), the
encrypted value is retrieved by computing u⊕ f (j). We stress that both encryption
and decryption can be easily computed with access to the orac le f .
Hence, the software protecting compiler, C, operates as follows. On input a
parameter k and a program Π, consisting of a sequence of instructions π 1, ..., π n, the
compiler uniformly selects a function f , and sets
Π f = (π 1⊕ f (2k + 1), 2k + 1), . . . , (π n⊕ f (2k + n), 2k + n)
Since the total running time of RAM k, in all experiments initiated by the adversary,
is at most 2 k, we never use the same argument (to f ) for two diﬀerent encryptions.
It follows that the encryption (which is via a “one-time pad” ) is perfectly secure (in
the information theoretic sense), and hence the adversary g ains no information about
the original contents of the value ﬁeld.
We remark that, in practice, one has to substitute the random oracle by a pseudo-
random one. Consequently, the result will hold only for adve rsaries restricted to
polynomial-time. Speciﬁcally, the compiler on input param eter k and program Π
uniformly selects a pseudo-random function f , and the description of f is hard-wired
into CP U k. Hence, CP U k is able to evaluate f on inputs of length k, and no poly( k)-
time adversary can distinguish the behavior of this cpu from the cpu described in the
proof of the theorem above. Hence, whatever a poly( k)-time adversary can compute
after a non-tampering experiment, can be computed in poly( k)-time with access to
only the speciﬁcation oracle (i.e., the two are indistingui shable in poly( k)-time). A
similar remark will apply to the following theorem as well.
3.2 Software Protection Against Tampering Adversaries
Theorem 2 Let{RAM k}k∈I Nbe a probabilistic ram which constitutes an oblivious
time-labeled simulation of a universal ram. Furthermore, suppose that t steps of the
original ram are simulated by less than t·g(t) steps of the oblivious ram. Then there exists
a compiler, that protects software against tampering adversaries , with overhead at
most O(g(t)).
5E.g., to combine functions f1 and f2 deﬁne f (i, x)
def
= fi(x).
25

Proof: In addition to the ideas used above, we have to prevent the adv ersary from
modifying the contents of the messages exchange between cpu and memory. This
is achieved by using authentication. Without loss of genera lity, we may restrict our
attention to adversaries that only alter messages in the memory-to-cpu direction.
Authentication is provided by augmenting the values stored in memory with
authentication tags. The authentication tag will depend on the value to be stored, on
the actual memory location (in which the value is to be stored), and on the numbe r
of previous store instructions to this location. (Hence, th e fact that the simulation is
time-labeled is crucial to our reduction.) Intuitively, su ch an authentication tag will
prevent the possibility of modifying the value, substituti ng it by a value stored in a
diﬀerent location, or substituting it by a value which has be en stored in the same
location (before the current value).
The CP U k resulting from the above theorem, is hence further modiﬁed a s fol-
lows. The modiﬁed CP U k has access to yet another random function, denoted f .
(Again this function can be combined with the other ones.) In case CP U k needs
to store the (encrypted) value v, in memory location a, it ﬁrst determines the cur-
rent version number of location a. (Notice that version(a) number can be computed
by the CP U k according to the deﬁnition of time-labeled simulation). Th e modiﬁed
CP U k now sends the message ( store, a, (v, f (a, version(a), v ))) (instead of the mes-
sage ( store, a, v ) sent originally). Upon receiving a message ( v, t ) from memory, in
response to a ( fetch, a, ·) request, the modiﬁed CP U k determines the current ver-
sion number, and compares t against f (a, version(a), v ). In case the two values are
equal, CP U k proceeds as before. Otherwise, CP U k halts immediately (and “for-
ever”). Thus, attempts to alter the messages from memory to cpu will be detected
with very high probability.
4 Towards The Solution: The “Square Root” So-
lution
Recall that the trivial solution to oblivious simulation of ram is to scan the entire
actual RAM k memory for each virtual memory access. We now describe the ﬁr st non-
trivial oblivious simulation of RAM k on probabilistic RAM ′k′ in order to develop
some intuition about the more eﬃcient solution. We further s implify our problem
by assuming that we know, ahead of time, the amount of memory m required by
the program (we note that we do not make this additional assum ption in the ﬁnal
solution). We show below how to simulate such a RAM by an obliv ious RAM of size
m + 2√m, such that t steps of the original RAM are simulated by approximately
26

m words m dummy words sheltered wordsm 
permuted memory
Figure 1: Data structure for “square root” solution.
t·√m steps of the oblivious RAM.
Intuitively, if we completely hide the virtual access patte rn, then the following
must also be hidden:
(1) which virtual locations are accessed, and in what order?
(2) how many times (if any) is a particular virtual location accessed?
4.1 Overview of The “Square Root” Algorithm
Informally, to deal with the ﬁrst problem, it is suﬃcient to s omehow “shuﬄe” the
memory, so that the adversary does not know which actual memo ry address corre-
sponds to which virtual address. To deal with the second prob lem, we make sure that
any (shuﬄed) memory location is accessed at most once. The hi gh-level steps of the
simulation are as follows:
• Initially, the ﬁrst m words of the oblivious RAM contain the contents of the
words of the original RAM. The other √m words are called “dummy” and the
last√m words are called “shelter”:
27

• while TRUE do begin:
(1) Randomly permute the contents of locations 1 through m +√m. That is,
select a permutation π over the integers 1 through m +√m and relocate
the contents of word i into word π (i) (later, we show how to do this
obliviously)
(2) Simulate √m memory accesses of the original RAM. During the simu-
lation we maintain the values previously retrieved (during the current
execution of step (2)) in the “sheltered locations” ( m +√m + 1) through
(m + 2√m) (i.e. locations which are not shuﬄed, but rather used as a
buﬀer in which we store values once we retrieve them from the p ermuted
memory.) A memory access of the original RAM, say an access to word i,
is simulated as follows: ﬁrst we scan through the “sheltered ” √m words
and check whether the contents of the original i-th word is in one of these
words. If the ith word is not found there then we retrieve it from virtual
word tagged by π (i); else we access the next “dummy word” (i.e. one of
the permuted dummy words π (m + 1) through π (m +√m) which was not
accessed before).
(3) Finally, we return the memory contents to their initial l ocations.
Before getting to the implementation details of the above st eps, we provide some
hints as to why they constitute an oblivious simulation. We a re going to show how
to make memory accesses of step (1) ﬁxed and thus independent of the input and
the access pattern of the original RAM. The memory accesses e xecuted in step (2)
are of two types: scanning through all “sheltered” words fro m the m +√m + 1-th
to the m + 2√m-th, and accessing √m locations which seem to the observer (not
knowing the permutation employed at step (1)) as being chose n at random among
the yet unaccessed words between 1 and m +√m in the “permuted memory”. It is
easy to see that Step (3) creates no new diﬃculties, as it can b e handled by reversing
the accesses of steps (1) and (2).
4.2 Implementation of the “Square Root” Algorithm
We now turn to details. First, we show how to choose and store a random permutation
over{1, 2, ..., t }, using O(log t) storage and a random oracle. The idea is to use
the oracle in order to tag the elements with randomly chosen d istinct (with high
probability) integers from a set of tags, denoted Tt. The permutation is obtained by
28

sorting the elements by their tags. It suﬃces to have the tags being drawn at random
from the set Tt ={1, 2, ..., t log t}. Let f :{1, 2, ..., t }→ Tt be a random function
trivially constructed by the random oracle. Then π (i) = k if and only if f (i) is the
k-th smallest element in {f (j) : 1 ≤ j≤ t}. Now we face the problem of obliviously
sorting the t elements (by their tags). The crucial condition is that the R AM which
executes the sorting can store only a ﬁxed number of values (s ay 2) at a time. The
idea is to “implement” Batcher’s Sorting Network [Bat], whi ch allows one to sort t
elements by t·⌈log2 t⌉2 comparisons. Each comparison is “implemented” by accessin g
both corresponding words, reading their contents, and then writing these values back
in the desired order. The sequence of memory accesses genera ted for this purpose is
ﬁxed and independent of the input. Note that the oblivious RA M can easily compute
at each point which comparison it needs to implement next. Th is is due to the simple
structure of Batcher’s network, which is uniform with respe ct to logarithmic space 6.
Next we specify how to access a virtual location i. Notice that after Step (1), the
virtual locations 1 through m +√m are sorted according to their tags (i.e. π (·)).
Thus, we must access the actual location which contains tag π (i) when looking for
virtual location i. It is not immediately obvious how to ﬁnd a location with tag π (i)
as we do not know its exact address. However, we do know that ac tual locations are
sorted by their tags. Therefore, in order to access actual lo cation with a tag π (i)
we perform a binary search of actual locations 1 through m +√m searching for the
location with the tag π (i). We claim that the actual location j∈{ 1, . . . , m +√m}
(in which π (i) tag is stored), completely speciﬁes the access pattern per formed during
binary search which stops at location j.
In particular, given actual location j we can specify the access pattern done during
binary search as follows:
• In each actual memory location i∈{ 1 . . . m +√m} store as its value its own
actual address i.
• Perform binary search, looking for j.
Notice that this simulation has exactly the same access pattern as the original binary
search. Thus, the accesses done in the binary search does not add any information
except j (which is determined by π (i)).
Next, we describe how to implement step 2 (i.e. obliviously s imulate a single
access). We remind the reader that the main idea of this simul ation is that we access
6The simplicity of Batcher sorting network is the main reason we prefer it (in practice) upon the
asymptotically superior Ajtai-Komlos-Szemeredi sorting network [AKS].
29

each virtual memory location in the “permuted memory” only o nce between each
permutation step. Once we access some virtual location, we k eep track of this virtual
location in “sheltered memory” in case we need to access it ag ain. Since “sheltered
memory” (which we constantly scan) has only √m capacity, we do permutations
with frequency √m. Thus, throughout step (2), count maintains the number of
single accesses simulated in the current run. The variable count is initially 0 and is
incremented until it reaches √m. The boolean variable f ound will record whether
the required value was found in one of the “sheltered” √m words. When the original
RAM accesses its i-th virtual word, the oblivious RAM proceeds as follows:
(2a) Scans through “sheltered locations” m +√m + 1 to m + 2√m. If the contents of
the original i-th word is in any of these words then the oblivious RAM fetche s
it (i.e. stores it in the cpu, and sets f ound← 1, else set f ound← 0.
(2b) If f ound = 1 then the oblivious RAM accesses the word with tag π (m + count)
(which is “dummy”); else the oblivious RAM accesses the word with tag π (i),
retrieves its contents (which is the desired original word i).
(2c) It scans through “sheltered locations” again and write s the (possibly) updated
value of the original i-th word. Increment count by 1.
In order to rearrange the memory, we simply do an oblivious so rt of all m + 2√m
words by the original word location. It should be stressed th at only the last accessed
word containing the value of an original is considered as bea ring this word. (Note
that during step (2) we can mark words which no longer contain the last accessed
version of an original word.) All other words are considered empty and will be sorted
to the last 2√m words.
4.3 Analysis of The “Square Root” Algorithm
The reader may easily verify that the sequence of memory acce sses of the oblivious
RAM indeed yields no information about the sequence of memor y accesses of the
original RAM. This is so, since during sorting, the access-p attern is ﬁxed, and all
other steps are done using a random oracle, and, hence do not r eveal any information
about the original work being access in the information-the oretic sense.
It is left to calculate the overhead of the simulation (i.e th e ratio of number of
accesses done by the oblivious RAM over the number of origina l accesses). The
permutation applied after every √m original accesses causes an overhead of O(m·
log2 m), which amounts to an amortized overhead of O(√m·log2 m) actions per each
30

original access. In addition, each of the original accesses causes O(√m) actions to be
taken in step (2). Other actions taken in step (3) are negligi ble in number. The total
overhead thus amounts to O(√m·log2 m) actions per instruction (actually, the above
choice of parameters is not optimal. Repermuting the words a fter every O(√m·log m)
instructions, yields an overhead of O(√m·log m) actions per instruction.) Thus, we
have shown that there exist an oblivious simulation of m-siz e RAMs with O(√m·
log2 m) overhead.
Our next step makes an exponential improvement: we eliminat e a √m factor in
the simulation and thus reduce overhead from linear to poly- logarithmic. Thus, now
that we developed some tools and intuition, we turn to a much m ore eﬃcient solution.
5 The Hierarchical Solution
First, we state our main theorem, which is proved in this Sect ion:
Theorem 3 (MAIN RESULT:) For all k∈ I N, for any RAM k and for all y of length
≤ 2k, any t≤ 2k steps of the computation of RAM k on y can be obliviously simulated
by probabilistic-RAM ′k+2 log log k with overhead O((log2 t)3). Furthermore, the simulation
is on-line and time-labeled.
5.1 Overview
In this Section we give a high-level description of our algor ithm together with some
intuition. The hierarchical solution presented in this Sec tion is a generalization of the
solution presented in the previous Section. One can view the solution of the previous
Section as consisting of two parts: the random shuﬄing and re -shuﬄing of the memory
contents every √m original accesses (steps (1) and (3)), and the simulation of the
original accesses through their randomized locations (ste p (2)). Substeps (2a) and
(2c) actually simulate a “powerful” RAM in which the CPU can h old up to √m
values in its local registers at any time: The CPU decides whe ther it already holds
the required value in its √m registers (which we call a “buﬀer”). If the answer is
negative then the CPU fetches the value, else it reaches for a “new” empty cell.
When trying to generalize the solution, we want to decrease t he amortized cost of the
random shuﬄing. The idea, intuitively, is to have buﬀers of d iﬀerent sizes according
to the frequency with which they are accessed. That is, we will have a small-si ze
buﬀer which we frequently access and frequently shuﬄe. We wi ll have bigger and
bigger buﬀers which are not as frequently accessed and hence will not have to be
31

shuﬄed as frequently, striking a balance in the (amortized) cost. Hence, intuitively
our approach, is to design a solution using a “powerful” RAM w ith CPU which can
hold a constant fraction of the original memory , and then simulate such a RAM by
a smaller RAMs in a recursive fashion. Thus, we introduce a hierarchy of buﬀers
of diﬀerent sizes , where essentially we are going to “shuﬄe” buﬀers with frequ ency
roughly proportional to their sizes.
For exposition purposes, we again make (another) simplifyi ng assumption about
the possible access pattern and ﬁrst present a solution for t his simpler problem.
Remark: At ﬁrst reading, it will not be clear why we select this partic ular solution
for the simpliﬁed problem. The reason, however, will become obvious, once we show
how to extend it to the general case.
5.2 The Restricted Problem
Suppose somebody guarantees to us that every memory location in a contiguous block
A of memory of length n is going to be read once and only once (we assume that
each memory location Vi (V stands for “virtual”) in A contains a value Xi. Thus,
A = ((V1,X1), . . . , (Vn,Xn)).) In this Section we consider the problem of hiding the
access pattern into A. That is, we hide the order (i.e. the permutation!) in which
words in A are examined. Instead of taking the simple approach of the pr evious
Section, we introduce a new data-structure, which will prov e to be useful for our
general problem. In particular, instead of just permuting m emory contents, we create
a hash-table with 4 n “buckets”, numbered from 1 to 4 n, where each bucket will
contain O(log n) words (as indicated on the ﬁgure of the restricted problem) .
We are going to map virtual memory addresses to keys in the has h table, using
the random oracle to compute our hash function. That is, we de ﬁne our hash function
h(V) to be F (V) mod 4 n. (Recall that we denote by F (i) a call to a random oracle
on input i.) The pre-processing step works as follows:
(1) Allocate a new block of memory of size 4 n·O(log n) words. In this block, we
call each consecutive sub-block of size O(log n) a bucket, and we number our
buckets from 1 to 4 n.
(2) Pick a random index s. Given s, we deﬁne a hash-function hs(·) to map any
addressV in A to an address hs(V) which we deﬁne as hs(V) = F (s◦V ) mod 4 n.
(3) (“Oblivious hash”): For i from 1 to n do: obliviously store a pair (Vi,Xi). into a
bucket hs(Vi) (i.e. into the ﬁrst available word in a bucket hs(Vi)). That is, store
32

O(log n)  words
4n  "buckets"
in each bucket
1 2 4n−1 4n
A: x1  x2  x3  ...                           xn
 v1  v2  v3  ...                           vn 
virtual block of
memory of size n
must store into a
"hash−table" with
4n buckets of size
O(log n) each.
Figure 2: The restricted problem.
every pair (out of n) into an appropriate bucket according to a random-function
hs(·) without revealing into which bucket each pair was placed.
Remark: At this point, we do not describe how step (3) could be impleme nted
obliviously and eﬃciently. We only note that extending techniques devel oped in the
previous Section, this could be achieved in time O(n·(log n)2). We postpone the
details of step (3) until after we present our main algorithm . We call (a generalization
of) the procedure describe in step (3) an “oblivious hash” ac cording to s.
Remark: Notice that we store n items into a hash table with 4 n entries according
to a random oracle. Hence, the probability that any bucket wi ll overﬂow (taken over
the choice of the randomly chosen function) is negligible.
33

Recall that we are dealing with the restricted problem, wher e we assume that our
access pattern is a permutation. After the pre-processing s tep, we can easily hide the
access pattern, utilizing the assumption that every virtua l memory location V in A
is referenced once and only once. To do so, when looking for a v alue stored under a
virtual address V we completely scan bucket h(V) looking for a tuple ( V,·). Notice
that any two distinct virtual memory locations are assigned independent buckets and
every virtual memory location (by our assumption) is access ed at most once. Thus,
the (actual memory) access pattern (i.e. bucket-access pat tern) is independent of the
virtual memory access pattern. Moreover, the probability o f an overﬂow is negligible.
Claim 1 Assume that every element in a block A of memory of length n is accessed
once and only once. Then there exists an (oﬀ-line) oblivious simulation with Θ((log n)2)
overhead.
Remark: We emphasize a crucial point of the above solution: our proce dure is
allowed to access the same bucket more than once. In fact, it w ill do so when collisions
occur. Notice, however, that the distribution is the same as if we select (for n times)
one of the 4 n buckets uniformly at random and sequentially scan it.
5.3 The Algorithm
In this Section we show how to hide the access pattern with jus t polylog(t) slowdown in
the running time. We waive all the previous restrictions, an d allow multiple accesses
to the same location and do not rely on the a-priori knowledge of the total (RAM)
memory size.
Instead of a single hash-table introduced in the previous Se ction, we use several
hash-tables of diﬀerent sizes. With each hash-table, we ass ociate a diﬀerent hash-
function, i.g. a diﬀerent index si. We call these hash-tables “buﬀers”. We number
them from 1 to N and refer to the i’th “level” buﬀer when we talk about buﬀer
number i, 1 ≤ i≤ N (see “hierarchical data-structure” ﬁgure.) We “oblivious ly
hash” contents of buﬀers at diﬀerent intervals, according t o their sizes (for smaller
buﬀers we do so more often than for bigger ones). The idea is to ensure that for
each buﬀer, no element in that buﬀer is accessed more than onc e in between two
consecutive “oblivious hashes”, thus reducing the general problem to the simpliﬁed
problem of the previous Section.
Let t be the current length of the access sequence, (i.e., the curr ent running time
of the program which is being simulated). Note that initiall y, t is equal to input
34

Level (1) buffer
with four buckets
level (i) buffer with 4
buckets
i
Level (2) buffer with
4*4 buckets
Level N buffer
with 4t buckets
LOWER LEVEL BUFFERS
HIGHER LEVEL BUFFERS
buckets of size
O(log t) words each
Index s1
for level (1)
Index s2
for level (2)
Index si
for level (i)
Index sN
for level (N)
Figure 3: Hierarchical data-structure.
length. We allocate memory for N = (1 + ⌈log4 t⌉) distinct “buﬀers”, where the
i’th level buﬀer, i = 1 , . . . , N is a hash-table of size 4 i buckets, each bucket of size
m = O(log t)). The buﬀers are sequentially numbered from smallest to th e largest,
according to their size. The largest, N’th level buﬀer will be of size 4 t. For each
buﬀer of level i, we pick si at random and associate a hash-function hsi(·), where
hsi(V) def= F (si◦V ) mod 4 i. Before we explain what our algorithm does, let us mention
how our simulation is going to look to an “adversary”: during the simulation we will
be adding more and more buﬀers at some predetermined interva ls of time. At a very
high level, during on-line simulation, for every virtual me mory reference, we scan all
(four) buckets of level one and for all the other (already cre ated) levels (access and)
scan a single bucket, which appears to be randomly chosen to t he adversary.
Initially, all the buﬀers are empty. In the beginning of the s imulation we store
35

(i.e. “obliviously hash”) the program and the input into the biggest, N’th level
buﬀer according to the value of sN and answers of the random oracle. During on-line
simulation, when we need to access virtual memory reference V, we ﬁrst completely
scan the level 1 buﬀer, looking for it. If we have not found ( V,X ) at level 1, then we
scan bucket hs2(V) of level 2. If we have not found it there, we scan hs3(V) if level
3, etc. Say we ﬁnd the virtual memory reference we been lookin g for at some level
(j), then for all the higher (i.e., bigger) levels, we access an d scan a randomly chosen
bucket. At the end, we store the found virtual “address-valu e” pair ( V,X ) at the
level 1 buﬀer. (We stress that we store in the level 1 buﬀer onl y the “address-value”
pair we been looking for, and not the entire bucket in which we have found it. )
In summary, here is how the value of the virtual location V is retrieved:
• Set boolean variable found to false and change it to “true” only when contents
of virtual location V is found, as speciﬁed below.
(1) Sequentially scan the level 1 buﬀer, looking for ( V,X ); (we remark that once
found, the cpu keeps (V,X ) pair in its work tape (i.e. in its registers) until
Step (3) below.)
(2) For i from 2 to n do:
– Retrieve the i’th level index si (of the current hash function associated
with buﬀer level i) and compute hsi(V).
– IF virtual location V has already been found THEN access a “random”
location. Namely, pick a random integer r between 1 and 4 i and scan
bucket r.
– ELSE scan bucket number hsi(V), looking for a tuple ( V,X ). If found,
set found to true, and copy ( V,X ) onto cpu work tape. (We remark
that we scan entire bucket even if we already found the tuple, and for
each element of the bucket, we perform an access pattern as if we copy
it into cpu work tape)
(3) Copy ( V,X ) from cpu work tape into the ﬁrst empty bucket of the level 1
buﬀer.
Note that in the above description, the data is is always “mov ed up” to the level
1 buﬀer. Thus, after four accesses, the level 1 buﬀer may beco me full. To avoid
potential “overﬂow” we must “move” contents of the ﬁrst leve l buﬀer to the second
36

level buﬀer. Then (at longer intervals) we must move content s of the second level
buﬀer to the third level buﬀer, etc. When we “move” contents o f buﬀer level i to
buﬀer level i + 1, (we do this every 4 i−1 retrieves) we “obliviously hash” the contents
of buﬀer level i and the contents of buﬀer level i + 1 to the buﬀer i + 1 according to
a new, randomly chosen index s′
i+1. Thus, every time a buﬀer at level i becomes at
most quarter-full7 (i.e. has the number of stored virtual memory references equ al to
at most a quarter of the number of the buckets) we empty it into the higher level. If
the higher level does not yet exist, we allocate it.
Remark: Notice that at round 4 i, the total number of entries in the ﬁrst i buﬀers is
at most 4 i, and hence merging their contents into the ith buﬀer (of size 4 i+1 buckets)
can use up only a quarter (of the total number of buckets) of th e entries.
Remark: Note that when we move contents of lower level buﬀer into the l arger
buﬀer, we pick a new hash-function and put into the bigger buﬀ er the contents of
the smaller buﬀer and the contents of the bigger buﬀer accord ing to this new hash
function. Thus, the collisions which occurred in the smalle r buﬀer do not inﬂuence
collisions which may occur in the bigger buﬀer. That is, coll isions do not accumulate.
Remark: Note that we do not need to know a-priori the length of the requ est
sequence. Instead, we do an adaptive simulation, starting w ith twice the size of the
input and adding more memory “as needed”, (but obliviously o f the real access.)
That is, after t steps we use O(t·(log t)2) memory. Notice that this does not reveal
the rate at which the memory is actually used up by the program .
5.4 Obliviousness of Access Pattern
From our examination of the restricted problem (see Section ??), we know that as
long as we look for any memory reference at most once, the choi ce of the hash-bucket
accessed appears completely random to the adversary. Notic e that there may be
“collisions” (i.e. we scan the same bucket more the once), bu t since diﬀerent memory
locations are assigned independent buckets, the choice of a bucket (for any memory
reference unaccessed-before) appears random to the advers ary.
7Notice that if we access the same actual location, instead of diﬀerent actual locations, then
buﬀers do not ﬁll-up. , The algorithm, never-the-less, move s contents of buﬀers at regular intervals
of time, even though they may even be empty. That is, we move th e contents of the buﬀers, which
are at worst quarter-full. Intuitively, this assures that the buckets d o not overﬂow with overwhelming
probability.
37

The crucial observation is that for all the buﬀers (except fo r (1)), we never look
for the same virtual memory V more then once (in the same level in between hashing
stages of that buﬀer. This is so, since once we have found a tup le containingV, we
move it into the ﬁrst level buﬀer, and due to the order in which we access buﬀers,
we will ﬁnd it in a smaller-level buﬀer unless it has already “ migrated” to the same
level. However, every time something is migrated to a same le vel, this level is hashed
according to a new, randomly selected hash-function. Thus, for all buﬀers i≥ 2 and
anyV, whenever we pick a new si, we compute hsi(V) at most once. Thus, we can
now utilize our study of the restricted problem: for every le vel at which we ﬁnd V,
the (position of) bucket in which we have found V appears completely random to the
adversary.
Suppose we ﬁnd ( V,X ) at some buﬀer level j. What we have just shown is that
the bucket hsj (V) scanned at level j appears random to the adversary. Next, we
argue that for all the buﬀers smaller then ( j), and for all the buﬀers bigger then ( j),
the choice of the buckets which is scanned appears random to t he adversary as well.
(Note that if this is the case, the adversary has no informati on as to which buﬀer
level the virtual memory reference has been found on.)
Suppose we found V at level j. First, we wish to show that for all the smaller
(than j) level buﬀers, the accessed bucket appears to the adversary to be uniformly
distributed. Note that due to the order in which we examine bu ﬀers, the bucket
number is computed by applying a random function to a key whic h has not been
accessed before at this level (otherwise, we would have foun d it at some smaller
level!) This means that for all levels smaller then j, we examine a bucket which is
computed by applying a random function to a new (unused befor e) argument in order
to decide which bucket to scan. But evaluating a random funct ion with a new key
gives a uniform distribution of the buckets.
Moreover, for all the bigger-level buﬀers, we always select the bucket number to
scan at random. Hence, as far as adversary is concerned, we sc an a random bucket
on all the levels, and completely scan the level 1 bucket. Thu s, provided that we can
perform oblivious hashing, then for any simulated access pa ttern, the distribution of
accessed buckets is the same, making the access pattern oblivious.
5.5 How To Perform The Oblivious Hash
In this sub-section we give details of how to perform oblivio us hash, which we have
been using all-along.
Recall that in our algorithm, the data is is always “moved up” to the smallest
38

(level 1) buﬀer. Thus, after four accesses, the level 1 buﬀer may become full. To
avoid potential “overﬂow” we must “move” contents of the ﬁrs t level buﬀer to the
second level buﬀer. Then (at longer intervals) we must move c ontents of the second
level buﬀer to the third level buﬀer, etc. When we “move” cont ents of buﬀer level
i to buﬀer level i + 1, (every 4 i−1 retrieves) we “obliviously hash” the contents of
buﬀer level i and the contents of buﬀer level i + 1 to the buﬀer i + 1 according to
a new, randomly chosen index s′
i+1. Thus, every time that a buﬀer at level i is at
most quarter-full (i.e. has the number of stored virtual mem ory references equal to
at most a quarter of the number of the buckets) we empty it into the higher level. If
this potentially makes the next level more than a quarter ful l, we instead empty both
levels into a bigger buﬀer as well. Notice that at round 4 i, the total number of entries
in the ﬁrst i buﬀers is at most 4 i, and hence merging their contents into the i’st buﬀer
(of size 4 i+1 buckets) can use-up only a quarter (of the total number of buc kets) of
the entries! Thus, the problem is always as follows: we have 2 hash-tables, A and
B. A has n buckets, while B has 4 n buckets, each bucket has size m words. Jointly,
both A and B contain not more than n entries, where each (non-empty) entry is a
pair (Vi,Xi):
Buffer A with n buckets.
Buffer B with 4n buckets
m words in 
each bucket
m words in 
each bucket
Jointly, buckets in
both A and B contain
at most n words
Our goal is to eﬃciently and obliviously transfer all such pa irs into B, using a
new random hash-function h′, so that all non-empty entries ( Vi,Xi) from both A or
B end up in buckets h′(Vi).
39

The requirement of making this transfer oblivious demands t he access pattern of
our algorithm to be independent (among all other things) of t he number of entries in
each (old or new) bucket. In particular, the issue is the foll owing. What we know is
how to obliviously sort n distinct elements into n cells, whereas what we need to do
now is obliviously hash n not necessarily distinct elements into n cells. Furthermore,
the elements will be independently and uniformly assigned a cell number and they
should be obliviously put into this cell. Note that it is expe cted that a constant
fraction of the cells are assigned no element, a constant fra ction are assigned one
element, a (smaller) constant fraction are assigned two ele ments, and it is likely that
there is a cell assigned log 2 n elements. The hashing should be performed so that, in
particular, the number of elements in each target cell is kep t secret.
Recall that in the “square root” solution we assigned “tags” to the elements and
then sorted according to these “tags”. Here, the “tag” indic ates the speciﬁc bucket
in which the the elements (i.e. virtual words) must be put. No tice that we want
to place up to n words into designated random 4 n buckets (of B), where each word
is assigned a destination “tag” which corresponds to the buc ket number into which
this word must be obliviously put. This can not be obtained by just obliviously
sorting these words by their tags since the words do not neces sarily get unique tags
(and in fact, with high probability collisions do occur, as indicated above.) Notice
that if the tags were indeed unique then there would be no issu e, as we could of
just apply the approach developed in our “square root” solut ion for the case of the
permutation. That is, while we already know how to achieve ob livious sorting ‘q(i.e,
in the square-root solution), it is not clear that the abilit y to obliviously sort will allow
us to obliviously put elements in the right buckets (instead of just sorting th em). The
problem, intuitively, is that even after the valid entries a re sorted by their new keys,
it is not clear how they can be eﬃciently and obliviously put i nto their appropriate
buckets. Thus, what we wish to do is to ﬁrst somehow initializ e all the buckets to have
the correct contents, and then obliviously put these bucket s into the right position.
In fact, one of the things we are going to do is to ﬁrst sort vali d entries by their
new keys. Notice that since collisions do occur, there will b e many entries with the
same key. Next, we must put the entries in the appropriate buc kets. The way we are
going to achieve this is to use many applications of “oblivio us sorting” using diﬀerent
“granularities” of elements which are sorted — the idea, in e ssence, is to reduce the
above problem to the already known case of obliviously sorti ng a permutation. In
particular, we are going to to use “oblivious sorting” for th e following purposes:
(a) sorting elements within a bucket: we mark all the “empty” entries as zero and
all the “full” entries as one and then perform an oblivious so rt. As a result,
40

all the “empty” and “full” entries are grouped together.
(b) moving elements within two buckets: Again, the idea is to mark all the empty
elements in both buckets as zero and all the non-empty elemen ts as one and
then obliviously sort. Since we are going to be guaranteed (w ith high prob-
ability) that the number of non-empty entries will be less th en the size of a
bucket, we essentially manage to “move” all the non-empty en tries into one of
the buckets, while keeping the access pattern completely ob livious.
(c) sorting buckets as individual elements: we can now put buckets (as individual
elements) according to their numbering, provided that all b uckets are repre-
sented.
In order to make sure that we are dealing with all the buckets, (i.e. that we are
dealing with the permutation), we introduce a “dummy” entry for each bucket. This
way, we are guaranteed that there is at least one item that we m ust put into each
bucket. Then we sort all the entries by their keys. Then we put the designated words
(and “dummy” entries) into buckets according to their tags ( Step 5) using oblivious
sorting (sorting two buckets at a time as in (b)) and then put b uckets into their
appropriate places obliviously sorting then as in in (c) abo ve and then just copying
them into B in the open (as it does not release any information as this poi nt). Now
we turn to a detailed description. The steps of oblivious has h algorithm are as follows:
1. Create a new hash-table C, of size 5 n buckets, and copy contents of A and
B into C, bucket by bucket (i.e. treating each bucket as indivisible block of
memory of size m words.)
bucket 1 bucket 5n
1      2    3     4                                                               5nm−1   5nm1
C:
Remark: the intuition here is that we put all the data from A and B to a
“temporary” bucket C, in which we “garbage-collect” all the empty words in an
oblivious manner. In order to do so, we essentially “mark” al l the empty words
with “0”, all the non-empty words with positive numbers and t hen perform
41

an oblivious sort. In Step 2 below, we do essentially this, an d (at the same
time) pre-compute hash-values (which are in random from 1 to 4n) for all the
non-empty words.
Remark: We must hide (among other things) which buckets will contain (one
or more) elements, and which buckets will remain empty. To ma ke sure that
this information is not revealed, we store at least one eleme nt into each bucket.
In order to do so, we, introduce an additional “dummy” entry f or each bucket.
2. Scan each bucket of C and for each non-empty word, assign a “tag” corre-
sponding to the new hash-function h′. In addition, for each i from 1 to 4 n add
a “dummy” virtual-address entry with “tag” i, while scanning C. (Since C has
5mn word size, there is always suﬃcient space to add “dummy” tags ). While
scanning, mark all the remaining “empty” words with “0 tag”.
3. Sort C at a word level (i.e. treating C as a single-dimensional array which
contains 5nm words to be sorted.) The data in C now looks as follows:
1      2    3     4                                                               5nm−1   5nm1
C: ...
Non−emtpy words and
"dummy" words, with tags
from 1 through 4n.
("dummy" words ensure that ALL
tags from 1 to 4n are represented)
Empty words with "0" tag
Remark: At this point, in array “C” contains all the entries sorted by their
tags. Each tag corresponds to a ﬁnal destination of a bucket i nto which this
element must be stored. In addition, there are “dummy” entri es for each bucket
as explained above. Our next goal is to somehow accumulate al l the elements
with the same “tag” into a single “bucket” (steps 4 and 5) and t hen put these
buckets into their appropriate positions (steps 6 and 7).
4. Allocate C ′ which has the same number of buckets as there are words in C (i.e.
5mn buckets.). Copy each word of C into a new top-most word of each bucket
of C ′.
42

1      2    3     4                                                               5nm−1   5nm1
1      2    3     4                                                               5nm−1   5nm1
Going from C to C’
Remark: At step 4 we created a correct data-structure to accumulate a ll the
entries with the same “tag” into a single bucket of C ′, which we can now do in
step 5 as follows:
5. Scan C ′ buckets left to right, performing oblivious sort between wo rds of every
two adjacent buckets, and in the process, “accumulating” al l the data with the
same “tag” into unique buckets of C ′ (Note that due to “dummy” entries, all
“tags” from 1 to 4 n are represented.) That is for every two pairs of buckets,
if they contain diﬀerent tags, execute oblivious hash but do nothing. If they
have the same tags, treat all non-empty entries as 1’s and all empty entries as
0’s and perform oblivious hash. This way, all the empty entri es are left in the
ﬁrst bucket, while all the non-empty entries are moved to the next bucket, as
explained in step (c) above.
43

1      2    3     4                                                               5nm−1   5nm1
Collect all data with the same "tag" into
a single bucket by performing oblivious 
sorting on each pair of adjacent buckets,
going left to right
Remark: Notice that step 5 is the key to our solution, as we now have all the
“buckets” represented, and hence, we are back to an already s olved problem of
obliviously re-arranging the permutation of the buckets as single entities.
Remark: After executing step 5 we know that there are exactly 4 n non-empty
buckets, thanks to our “dummy” entries. Now, the only remain ing task is to
put these buckets into the right positions into B. This is achieved in steps 7
and 8 in a straightforward manner:
6. Perform oblivious sort of C ′ buckets (i.e, now treating each bucket of C ′ as
an indivisible unit.) and treating all the “empty” buckets ( i.e. those without
even one entry) as “-1”. Notice that as a result, all the non-e mpty buckets are
accumulated in the last 4 n positions of C ′.
44

1      2    3     4                                                               5nm−1   5nm1
perform "oblivious sort" of
buckets,  accumulating all 4n
real buckets in (5nm−4n) to 5mn
positions of C’
7. Scan the last 4n positions of C ′ left to right, and put each good “bucket” (i.e.
with “tags” from 1 to 4 n into the correct place in B. Now scan B and eliminate
“dummy” entries.
Remark: We note that the point of creating dummy entries is to prevent the adver-
sary from learning how many buckets in B are non-empty. It should be clear from the
above description, that the oblivious hash procedure is bot h oblivious and achieves its
desired goal. Moreover, taking m = O(log n) the running time of the above procedure
is O(n·(log n)2).
5.6 Cost
Recall that there are N = O(log t) buﬀers. For every step in the original sequence
st we scan all the buckets of the level 1 buﬀer and then scan a sing le bucket of
size O(log t) on every other level, getting O((log t)2) actual accesses for each virtual
access. In addition, during on-line simulation of st we hash the level i and level i− 1
buﬀers into the level i buﬀer a total of 4 n−i+1 times, i = 2 , . . . n . Since the joint
size of the level i− 1 and level i buﬀers is O(4i) buckets of size O(log t), it takes
O(4i·log t·log(4i·m)) steps to obliviously hash them. Thus, the total number of
steps we have to perform for all the hashing of all the buﬀers i s equal to:
N∑
i=2
4n−i+1·4i·log t·log(4i·log t) = O
(
t·(log t)3)
45

Therefore, we have an amortized poly-logarithmic (i.e. O((log t)3)) overhead of hiding
the access pattern (with a negligible probability of an over ﬂow 8).
Remark: Our negligible probability of error can be substituted to ex pected (polylog)
running time by requiring the running time to be an expected p olylog overhead, and
hashing whenever overﬂow occurs.
Remark: Notice that there is a trade-oﬀ between the size of the cpu and the overhead
of the simulation. That is, given more (“protected” from the adversary) memory in
the cpu, we can always speed-up our simulation.
5.7 Making Hierarchical Simulation Time-Labeled
Recall that we need to make our simulation time-labeled in order to prevent an adver-
sary from substituting values previously stored in the same actual location. Before
we present our solution we make a crucial observation:
Lemma 1 During our (hierarchical) simulation, for all buﬀers of lev els bigger than one
we do not change the contents of these buﬀers except by oblivi ous hashing.
Proof: Notice that we do not have to modify the bucket when we scan it. Mod-
iﬁcations happen only during re-hashing (and on buﬀer level (1)). Recall that this
is possible since whenever we wish to “change” some location , we always move it to
the ﬁrst level buﬀer, and hence, can change it there. Hence, w e do not “touch” the
bucket where we have found it.
Due to the above lemma, our simulation is trivially time-lab eled, as we touch each
level with a ﬁxed frequency which depends only on the size of t hat level and total
elapsed time of the simulation. This completes the proof of t heorem 3.
5.8 Software protection
We can now combine theorem 3 and 2 to establish that:
Theorem 4 SOFTW ARE PROTECTION (information-theoretic cas e): There
exists a software-protecting compiler C such that for any probabilistic-RAM C protects
software against tampering adversaries with overhead O((log2)3).
8We throw n balls into 4 n boxes and measure the probability that any box contains more then
c log n balls, which corresponds to an overﬂow. The probability of t his event can be easily seen to
be neglibible, where by negligible we mean asymptotically l ess then 1
nO(1) .
46

The above theorem holds in the information-theoretic sense on a probabilistic-
RAM (which uses a random oracle.) As noted in the introduction, i nstead of random
oracle we can use pseudo-random functions [GGM], and state a practical analogue of
the above theorem. That is, assuming the existence of a stron g one-way function, the
above algorithm can be implemented in practice using O(t·(log2 t)3·kc) steps. Thus
the above overhead is (log 2 t)3·kc. We claim that if we substitute a random oracle by
a pseudo-random one, with an appropriate security paramete r, then (log 2 t)3 < k c and
thus the overhead is just O(kc). This is so since k is a security parameter, and t is the
running time. Hence, However, the security parameter k implies that 2 k is infeasible.
Thus, if we consider only poly-time computations, ( t) << 2k, and (log 2 t)3 < k c for
c≥ 3. Thus, we can state a practical analogue of Theorem 4 as foll ows:
Theorem 5 SOFTW ARE PROTECTION (polynomial case): Suppose one-
way functions exist, with k a security parameter of a strong one-way function. Then ther e
exists a software-protecting compiler C secure against all polynomial-time adversaries with
compilation overhead kO(1).
Proof : Analogous to the information-theoretic case, but substit uting the random
oracle by a pseudo-random one. That is, we initialze a cpu with a seed to a random
oracle, and ougmment our cpu with [GGM] speudo-random function hardware. Every
time there is a call to a random oracle, we make a call this this hardware stored in
the cpu. The rest of the algorithm is equivalent to the information- theoretic case.
6 A Lower Bound
Theorem 6 Every oblivious simulation of ram on input y by probabilistic- ram must
make at least (max{|y|, Ω( t·log t)} accesses in order to simulate t steps.
Proof : The task of simulating ram on an oblivious RAM can be modeled by the
following game between three players:
• the cpu player who can hold at one time at most c “balls” and has access to
random function f .
• the program request sequence: ( r1, . . . , r t) of length t.
• an observer.
47

The player is allowed at any point in time to inspect the entire program request
sequence. The game takes place on a memory consisting of m cells, each capable of
storing a single ball. The balls are numbered, from 1 to m. Initially, the ith cell
contains ball number i, for 1 ≤ i≤ m. (By m we denote the maximal amount of
memory that ram can use on input y and t steps of the execution. Notice that m is
at most max{|y|, t}.)
The game proceeds for t rounds. In each round j, the program request sequence
secretly speciﬁes to the player a request rj which is a ball number from 1 to m (say
i). The goal of the player is to hold the ball rj but in such a way that the observer
does not know the value of rj. That is, the obliviousness condition requires that the
observer can learn nothing about the sequence of requests in itiated by the program
from the sequence of addresses accessed by the player. We note that the program
request sequence is collaborating with neither the player nor observer.
In order to achieve the above goal, the player “answers” by a sequence of exchanges
of balls that he currently has and balls stored in memory (or j ust touches of balls
stored in memory). The current round ends when the player holds ball i. The observer
sees the sequence of (memory) addresses accessed, but does n ot see any of the ball
numbers nor whether the balls in memory are just touched or ex changed.
Consider a probabilistic mapping of t-element long request sequence (i.e. the re-
quest made by the program) into a pair of two q-element sequences determining the
behavior of the CPU player. The ﬁrst sequence Vq describes the visible access pattern
while the second sequence Hq describes the hidden sequence of actions (elements of
{EXCHANGE(l)1≤l≤c,
DROP(l)1≤l≤c, TAKE(l)1≤l≤c, DO-NOTHING}). Hence, in response to request se-
quence ( r1, ..., r t) and access to random function f , the player conducts actions
(v1, h 1), . . . , (vq, h q) where vi is a cell number from Vq and hi denotes above men-
tioned 3 c + 1 actions from Hq (i.e., whether the player “takes (a ball from the cell)”,
“drops (a ball into it)” or “keeps (the balls he holds)”.
We can now specify exactly the notion of “rounds”: we say that a sequence
of actions ( v1, h 1), ..., (vq, h q) satisﬁes the request sequence r1, ..., r t if there exists
a sequence i1, ..., i t (i.e., when rounds are “ﬁnished”) so that, for every (round) j
(1≤ j≤ t), after actions ( v1, h 1), ..., (vij , h ij ) the player holds ball rj (i.e., request to
get ball rj is satisﬁed). Note that this deﬁnition does not depend on the function f
(which might have been used to determine the action sequence ).
48

Note that a ﬁxed sequence of player actions ( v1, h 1), ..., (vq, h q) may satisfy at
most cq program request sequences, as after each step the player holds at most c balls.
Moreover, for a ﬁxed Vq there are (3 c + 1) q possible request sequences. Therefore,
each Vq of length q may satisfy at most cq·(3c + 1)q request sequences. By the
obliviousness condition, the Vq sequence should be statistically independent of the
particular request sequence (except for its length). But th ere are mt requests, calling
for at least this number of hidden actions. Thus, for any cons tant c (which corresponds
to the oblivious ram that has probabilistic cpu with c registers) it must be the case
that q > t·Ω(log m).
Remark: The above proof does not use the fact that the simulation need s to be done
on-line. That is, the above lower bound holds even if the simu lation is performed with
the entire program request sequence given to the oblivious ram before the simulation
begins!
7 Concluding Remarks
Summarizing, we provided theoretical treatment of softwar e protection in terms of
formalizing what the problem is, and establishing poly-log arithmic upper bound and
logarithmic lower bound.
Moreover, we have established the analog of Pippenger and Fi sher result [PF] for
random-access machines, despite the fact that random-acce ss machines can access its
memory in an arbitrary manner, whereas the result of [PF] rel ies on the fact that
single-tape Turing machine memory-access is severely limi ted.
On a practical side, we have presented a compiler which trans lates RAM-programs
to equivalent programs which defeat attempts to learn anyth ing about the program
by executing it. The translation was carried-out on the inst ruction level: namely,
we have replaced the memory access of each instruction by a se quence of redundant
memory accesses. Clearly, all statements and results appea ring above, apply to any
other level of execution granularity. For example, on the “p aging” level this would
mean dealing with “get page” and “store page” as atomic acces s instructions, and
substituting single ”page access” by a sequence of “page acc esses”. In general, we
have provided a mechanism for obliviously accessing a large number of unprotected
sites when using a single protected site. This has several ap plications.
One possible application of our work is protection of traﬃc- patterns in a dis-
tributed database. In this application we deal with a distri buted database in which
no user can hold at one time more than a small part of the databa se, and in which
49

a polynomial-time adversary can monitor all communication lines. Encryption hides
the contents of the messages, but does not hide which communi cation lines are used.
Thus, indirectly, some information about the database is re vealed to an adversary.
For example, an adversary can learn which part of the databas e is most useful (i.e.,
most frequently read and updated), and which part of the data base is most useful to
a particular user. How can users hide the access sequence wit hout sending too many
additional messages? It can be shown that a solution to the “o bliviously accessed
data base” problem reduces to simulation of arbitrary RAMs b y oblivious RAMs.
We note that further work in this direction, dealing with a mo re powerful adversary
was addressed in [SR].
Another application of our technique is for data-structure checking [B, BK, BEGKN],
where assuming that a data-structure has small reliable mem ory we can guarantee
that it was not modiﬁed by an adversary.
References
[AHU] Aho, A.V., J.E. Hopcroft, and J.D. Ullman, “The Design and Analysis of
Computer Algorithms” Addison-Wesley Publ. Co., 1974
[AKS] Ajtai, M., J. Komlos, and E. Szemeredi “An O(n·log n) Sorting Network”
STOC 83.
[ACGS] Alexi, W., B Chor, O Goldreich, and C.P Schnorr, “RSA a nd Rabin Func-
tions: Certain Parts Are As Hard As The Whole”, SIAM Jour on Comput-
ing, Extended Abstract in Proc 25th FOCS , 1984.
[Bat] Batcher, K. “Sorting Networks and their Applications ” AFIPS Spring Joint
Computer Conference 32, 1968, pp. 307-314.
[Be] Best, R. “Microprocessor for Executing Encrypted Prog rams” US Patent
4,168396 Issued September 1979.
[B] M. Blum, “Designing programs to check their work” manusc ript.
[BK] M. Blum., and S. Kannan., “Program correctness checkin g... and the design
of programs that check their work” STOC 89
[BEGKN] M. Blum, W. Evans, P. Gemmell, S. Kannan M. Naor “Chec king the
Correectness of Memories” FOCS 91.
50

[BM] Blum, M., and S. Micali, “How to Generate Cryptographic ally Strong Se-
quences of Pseudorandom Bits”, SIAM J. on Comput. , Vol. 13, 1984, pp.
850-864.
[CW] J.L. Carter J.L. and M. N. Wegman “Universal Classes of H ash Functions”
Journal of Computer and System Sciences 18 (1979), pp. 143-154.
[G] Goldreich, O. “Towards a Theory of Software Protection a nd simulation by
Oblivious RAMs” STOC 87 .
[GO] Goldreich, O. and R. Ostrovsky “Comprehensive Softwar e Protection Sys-
tem” U.S. Patent, Serial No. 07/395.882.
[GGM] Goldreich, O., S. Goldwasser, and S. Micali, “How To Co nstruct Random
Functions,” Journal of the Association for Computing Machinery , Vol. 33,
No. 4 (October 1986), 792-807.
[GM] Goldwasser S., and S. Micali, “Probabilistic Encrypti on” Jour. of Computer
and System Science , Vol. 28, No. 2, 1984, pp. 270-299.
[GMR] S. Goldwasser, S. Micali and C. Rackoﬀ, The Knowledge Complexity of In-
teractive Proof-Systems, STOC 1985, ACM, pp. 291-304.
[H] Hastad, J., “Pseudo-Random Generators under Uniform As sumptions”,
STOC 90 .
[ILL] R. Impagliazzo, R., L. Levin, and M. Luby “Pseudo-Rand om Generation
from One-Way Functions,” STOC 89.
[K] Kent, S.T., “Protecting Externally Supplied Software i n Small Computers”
Ph.D. Thesis, MIT/LCS/TR-255 1980.
[LR] Luby, M., and C. Rackoﬀ, “Pseudo-Random Permutation Ge nerators and
Cryptograpic Composition” Proc. of 18’th SOTC, 1986, pp. 35 6-363.
[PF] Pippengerr, N., and M.J. Fischer, “Relations Among Com plexity Measures”
JACM, Vol 26, No. 2, 1979, pp. 361-381.
[Ost] Ostrovsky, R. “Eﬃcient Computation on Oblivious RAMs ” STOC, 1990.
[SR] Simon M., and C. Rackoﬀ, personal communication.
[Y] Yao, A.C., “Theory and Applications of Trapdoor Functio ns”, 23rd FOCS ,
1982, pp. 80-91.
51