Rateless Bloom Filters: Set Reconciliation for Divergent Replicas
with Variable-Sized Elements
Pedro Gomes
University of Porto
Porto, Portugal
pedromgomes29@gmail.com
Carlos Baquero
University of Porto
Porto, Portugal
cbm@fe.up.pt
ABSTRACT
Set reconciliation protocols typically make two critical assump-
tions: they are designed for fixed-sized elements and they are opti-
mized for when the difference cardinality,d, is very small. When
adapting to variable-sized elements, the current practice is to syn-
chronize fixed-size element digests. However, when the number
of differences is considerable, such as after a network partition,
this approach can be inefficient. Our solution is a two-stage hybrid
protocol that introduces a preliminary Bloom filter step, specifically
designed for this regime. The novelty of this approach, however,
is in solving a core technical challenge: determining the optimal
Bloom filter size without knowingd. Our solution is the Rateless
Bloom Filter (RBF), a dynamic filter that naturally adapts to arbi-
trary symmetric differences, closely matching the communication
complexity of an optimally configured static filter without requiring
any prior parametrization. Our evaluation in sets of variable-sized
elements shows that for Jaccard indices below85%, our RBF-IBLT
hybrid protocol reduces the total communication cost by up to over
20%compared to the state-of-the-art.
1 INTRODUCTION
Set reconciliation is a fundamental problem in distributed systems.
Two replicas, Alice and Bob, hold sets𝑆𝐴 and𝑆𝐵 of elements, re-
spectively. Their goal is to communicate efficiently to find the
differences between their sets so that both replicas can obtain the
set union,𝑆𝐴∪𝑆 𝐵. This problem has wide-ranging applications,
including cloud storage for synchronizing files between replicas,
distributed databases for anti-entropy protocols, and blockchain
networks for transaction dissemination.
While the problem is often simplified in the literature to fo-
cus on sets of fixed-sized elements, real-world synchronization is
more complex, frequently involving variable-sized elements such
as files, Bitcoin transactions, and database records. This makes han-
dling variable-sized elements a more general and practical problem
than what is typically considered. The common approach to adapt
fixed-size algorithms to this more general problem is to first create
fixed-sized digests (e.g., hashes) of the elements and then apply set
reconciliation to these digests. The mismatched digests are then
used to identify the variable-sized elements that must be exchanged.
In this work, we present an evaluation of state-of-the-art set rec-
onciliation methods applied to fixed-sized digests of variable-sized
elements. We also introduce a new two-stage algorithm that com-
bines Bloom filters with rateless Invertible Bloom Lookup Tables
(IBLTs). We demonstrate that for a considerable number of differ-
ences, the addition of a preliminary Bloom filter step significantly
reduces communication overhead when compared to existing meth-
ods. Our method is particularly effective for scenarios of moderate
similarity, which are critical after major network events like black-
outs or extended replica downtime.
A core challenge with this two-stage approach is how to con-
figure the Bloom filter, as the optimal configuration depends on
the unknown cardinality of the set difference. We solve this by
introducing rateless Bloom filters, inspired by rateless IBLTs. In
our method, nodes continuously stream small Bloom filter with a
single hash function, and the receiver signals the sender to stop
when the optimal point of communication has been reached. This
technique leverages prior work on Bloom joins by Mullin [9](1990)
but is adapted for the set reconciliation problem. As we will show,
our method achieves a communication cost very close to that of
an optimally configured static Bloom filter, without any need for a
priori set difference cardinality estimations.
In summary, we make the following contributions:
• We propose a rateless Bloom filter approach, an adaptation
of Mullin’s multi-filter Bloomjoin for the set reconciliation
problem.
• We evaluate rateless Bloom filters against standard Bloom
filters and show that our approach follows the communi-
cation cost of an optimally configured static Bloom filter
without requiring any a priori knowledge of the set differ-
ences.
• We provide a novel evaluation of state-of-the-art set rec-
onciliation algorithms for variable-sized elements, demon-
strating that for Jaccard indices below85%, our approach
transmits up to over20%less data than the state-of-the-art
algorithm with the lowest communication cost.
2 MOTIV ATION
While set reconciliation is a well-studied problem, state-of-the-art
algorithms typically operate under two restrictive assumptions:
first, that the symmetric difference cardinality, 𝑑, is very small
compared to the total set sizes; and second, that all set elements are
of a fixed size. The common practice of adapting these algorithms
for variable-sized elements by hashing them first fundamentally
alters their properties.
While for state-of-the-art methods in fixed-sized element set
reconciliation the elements are sent embedded in the transmitted
data structures, for variable-sized elements this is not the case. The
reconciliation protocol is applied to fixed-size digests, which only
serve to identify the differing elements. The actual variable-sized
elements must then be transmitted in a separate step. As such,
for variable-sized elements and unlike for fixed-size elements, both
state-of-the-art set reconciliation algorithms and Bloom filters serve
the same purpose: to identify the elements to be exchanged. The
arXiv:2510.27614v1  [cs.DS]  31 Oct 2025

Pedro Gomes and Carlos Baquero
question then becomes which is more space-efficient for this iden-
tification phase. For considerable symmetric differences, a Bloom
filter can be more efficient. For example, the communication cost
of using 64-bit digests with PinSketch is at least𝑑× 64bits, while a
Bloom filter’s communication cost is usually just a few bits per ele-
ment (e.g.,𝑛× 5). Depending on how small𝑑 is compared to𝑛, Bloom
filters can be more space-efficient than PinSketch in identifying the
differing elements.
While very high similarity (small𝑑) is expected during routine
anti-entropy operations, we argue that scenarios with moderate
similarity are not only relevant but critical. These are the precise
conditions under which our method provides the most benefit:
when the differences are smaller than the whole state, but large
enough that it makes sense to use Bloom filters. This sweet spot
exists after major events like network partitions, such as the 2025
Iberian Peninsula blackout which lasted for over ten hours, or
extended replica downtime, whether due to planned datacenter
maintenance or the inherent churn of nodes in P2P networks. In
these situations, an efficient set reconciliation protocol is crucial
for quickly bringing disconnected replicas up to date.
A core limitation of using Bloom filters for reconciliation is the
existence of false positives, which prevent a guaranteed recon-
ciliation. Prior work, such as Graphene[ 10] and ConflictSync[4],
has demonstrated that combining Bloom filters with more robust
reconciliation protocols can result in lower communication costs.
However, the optimal configuration of the Bloom filter is dependent
on the unknown set difference cardinality. While Graphene han-
dles this by leveraging its specific use case (block dissemination) to
make assumptions about set differences, more general applications
lack this a priori knowledge. ConflictSync shows that the optimal
Bloom filter size increases with the number of differences but does
not provide a mechanism for configuring the filter. This exposes
a critical research gap: a rateless method in which the Bloom fil-
ter size naturally adapts to the set difference cardinality without
relying on prior knowledge or estimations.
Additionally, Graphene and ConflictSync were evaluated within
their specialized domains (blockchain transaction dissemination
and CRDT synchronization, respectively), rather than as a general
set reconciliation protocol. As such, they are compared against the
state-of-the-art methods within their given domains, and are not
evaluated as a generic set reconciliation solution against state-of-
the-art set reconciliation methods.
Set reconciliation methods are also typically evaluated for sets
of fixed-size elements, stating that applying these algorithms to
variable-sized elements is just a question of synchronizing the fixed-
size digests and using those to obtain the corresponding elements.
However, no prior work has provided a comprehensive evaluation
of state-of-the-art set reconciliation solutions on sets of variable-
sized elements.
Similar to the hybrid protocols like Graphene and ConflictSync,
we introduce a set reconciliation protocol that leverages the com-
bined strengths of Bloom filters and IBLTs. However, we address the
critical research gap by introducing Rateless Bloom Filters (RBFs).
RBFs naturally adapt to arbitrary symmetric differences with per-
formance closely matching an optimally configured Bloom filter,
entirely removing the need for prior estimation or parametrization
0 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0
x1 x2
Inserting
Figure 1: Insertion into a standard Bloom filter (𝑚= 12,𝑘= 3).
Elements𝑥 1 and𝑥 2 are inserted.
0 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0
(True Positive)
x1
(True Negative)
y1
(False Positive)
y2
Lookup
Figure 2: Lookup in a standard Bloom filter. 𝑥1 is a true posi-
tive,𝑦 1 is a true negative, and𝑦 2 is a false positive.
ofd. Furthermore, we benchmark this novel protocol against state-
of-the-art set reconciliation protocols in a comprehensive evalua-
tion focused on the crucial, yet neglected, scenario of variable-sized
elements.
3 BACKGROUND
3.1 Bloom filters
A Bloom filter [1] is a space-efficient randomized data structure
for approximate set membership queries. It represents a set of 𝑛
elements using a bit array of size𝑚, initially with all bits set to 0.
The structure employs𝑘 independent hash functions, each mapping
an element to a position within the bit array.
To insert an element, the bits at the𝑘 positions determined by
the hash functions are set to 1. As illustrated in Figure 1, with
𝑚= 12and 𝑘= 3, the insertion of elements𝑥1 and𝑥2 sets specific
bits to 1. An element’s membership is queried by checking if all𝑘
corresponding bits are set to 1. If any of these bits is 0, the element
is provably not in the set, ensuring no false negatives. However,
multiple insertions can set all the bits for an element that was never
added, leading to a false positive.
Figure 2 demonstrates the lookup process. The element𝑥1, which
was previously inserted, correctly yields a positive result. The ele-
ment𝑦1, never inserted, correctly yields a negative result because
at least one of its corresponding bits is 0. However, element𝑦2, also
never inserted, results in a false positive because the bits it maps to
were all set to 1 by the insertions of𝑥 1 and𝑥 2.
A variant, the Partitioned Bloom filter[8], partitions the bit array
into𝑘 equal-sized blocks of𝑚/𝑘 bits. Each of the𝑘 hash functions
then maps an element exclusively to a position within one of these
specific partitions. This structure can be viewed as an AND compo-
sition of𝑘 independent single-hash filters. This composite nature,

Rateless Bloom Filters: Set Reconciliation for Divergent Replicas with Variable-Sized Elements
where the large filter is derived from smaller filters, is fundamental
to our approach.
3.2 Optimal Bloom filter Semijoins
In a distributed database system, a join between two relations often
needs to be performed across different nodes. A naive approach
for this is for one node to send its entire relation to the other,
where the join is then computed locally. However, it is inefficient to
transmit tuples for which there is no join partner on the other side. A
semijoin is a technique that reduces a relation to contain only tuples
whose join key values find a match on the other relation, thereby
ensuring that no useless tuples are transmitted. This problem can
be framed as a set membership test: a site needs to send a tuple
only if its join key belongs to the set of join keys of the other
relation. A naive approach is to send the entire set of distinct join
keys from one of the relations, but this is space-inefficient. A better,
more space-efficient idea is to use Bloom filters. This approach is
called a Bloomjoin [7]. False positives can be handled by simply
transmitting all the tuples that test positive against the filter, which
will necessarily include all the true positives. The cost of false
positives is simply an additional communication cost.
The central problem is how to configure the Bloom filter’s false
positive rate (FPR). If the join keys have high similarity, the Bloom
filter is counterproductive as most tuples will test positive anyway.
If the join keys have a low similarity, the Bloom filter is a very good
idea and should be configured with a low FPR. For intermediate
cases, the optimal FPR varies depending on the set difference, a
value that is hard to know a priori.
The idea in Mullin’s 1990 work [9] was to avoid this problem by
not sending one large, static Bloom filter with a potentially inade-
quate FPR. Instead, the sender transmits a sequence of small Bloom
filters, and the receiver, after processing each one, determines the
optimal point to terminate the transmission and signals the sender
to stop.
The receiver’s role is to decide whether the optimal communi-
cation point has been reached. With each small Bloom filter, some
number of false positives are revealed as true negatives. This num-
ber of eliminated tuples decreases with each additional filter. The
receiver, knowing the average size of a tuple and the size of each
small Bloom filter, can compute the number of tuples that could be
transmitted using the same number of bits. Eventually, the number
of tuples that become true negatives by receiving the latest filter
will be smaller than the number of tuples that could have been
transmitted with the same number of bits. At this point, it would
have been more efficient to simply transmit the revealed false posi-
tives than to send the new Bloom filter. The receiver notifies the
sender to stop, having reached a near-optimal communication cost
without any a priori knowledge of the set difference.
3.3 Rateless Set Reconciliation
3.3.1 Invertible Bloom Lookup Tables (IBLTs).An Invertible Bloom
Lookup Table (IBLT) [6] is a probabilistic data structure that extends
the functionality of a traditional Bloom filter. While a Bloom filter
can only test for the presence of an element, an IBLT is designed
to allow for the reconstruction of the original set of elements with
high probability.
Each cell in an IBLT is a tuple of three fields:
• idSum: The bitwise XOR sum of the IDs of all elements
that map to this cell.
• hashSum: The bitwise XOR sum of the hashes of all ele-
ments that map to this cell.
•count: The number of elements that map to this cell.
Elements are inserted into an IBLT by applying a set of𝑘 indepen-
dent hash functions, similar to a Bloom filter. For each of the 𝑘
resulting cell indices, the element’s ID and hash are XORed into
the cell’sidSumandhashSum, respectively, and thecountis incre-
mented. Element removal uses the exact same XOR operations but
decrements thecount. The use of XOR ensures that adding and then
removing an element leaves a cell’sidSumandhashSumunchanged.
A cell is considered pure if it contains exactly one element. This
can be verified with overwhelming probability by checking if the
hash of theidSummatches thehashSum. This check fails with over-
whelming probability for cells containing two or more elements.
When a pure cell is found, the element is identified and peeled
away by removing its contribution from all cells it maps to. This
peeling process can create new pure cells, leading to a cascading
decoding effect. The process continues until all elements are recov-
ered (when all cells become empty) or until no more pure cells can
be found, at which point decoding fails.
As illustrated in Figure 3, an IBLT is used to encode a set with
elements𝑥0,𝑥 1,𝑥 2,𝑥 3. The cells highlighted in red are pure, as their
countis 1, and the hash of theiridSummatches thehashSum. This
confirms that elements𝑥1 and𝑥3 are in the set. After identifying𝑥1
and𝑥3, the elements can be removed from the cells to which they
map, which in turn causes other cells to become pure (e.g., the first
and last cell), allowing a cascading decoding process to recover the
remaining elements.
x0  x1
h(x0)  h(x1)
2
x0  x2
h(x0)  h(x2)
2
x0  x2
h(x0)  h(x2)
2
x1
h(x1)
1
x1  x3
h(x1)  h(x3)
2
x3
h(x3)
1
x2  x3
h(x2)  h(x3)
2
idSum
hashSum
count
x0 x1 x2 x3
Figure 3: An example IBLT.
3.3.2 Set reconciliation with IBLTs.IBLTs provide an efficient mech-
anism for set reconciliation [ 3]. The sender constructs an IBLT
IBLT𝐴 from its set and transmits it to the receiver. The receiver sim-
ilarly computes IBLT𝐵 from its local set. Both are then combined
to construct a new IBLT representing the symmetric difference,
IBLT𝐵Δ𝐴, by performing a cell-wise combination:
idSum𝐵Δ𝐴[𝑖]=idSum 𝐵[𝑖]⊕idSum 𝐴[𝑖]
hashSum𝐵Δ𝐴[𝑖]=hashSum 𝐵[𝑖]⊕hashSum 𝐴[𝑖]
count𝐵Δ𝐴[𝑖]=count 𝐵[𝑖]−count 𝐴[𝑖]
Due to the properties of XOR, any element present in both sets will
cancel out, leaving the combined IBLT with only the XOR sums
and counts of elements unique to either set.

Pedro Gomes and Carlos Baquero
IBL T for Set A
22480
57904...
30537
37000
78508...
30594
61651
31785...
30578
98578
11381...
30554
85924
45757...
30277
42815
48611...
30641
idSum
hashSum
count
1 2
IBL T for Set B
119154
70175...
30538
71210
71395...
30595
95858
42420...
30578
1968
64817...
30554
85926
13870...
30276
42814
61750...
30640
idSum
hashSum
count
100002 100003
Combined IBL T (Symmetric Difference)
100002
64403...
1
100002
64403...
1
100001
71868...
0
100002
10438...
0
2
13829...
-1
1
32575...
-1
idSum
hashSum
count
100002 100003 1 2
Figure 4: Set reconciliation with IBLTs.
The receiver then decodes this difference IBLT. A key insight is
that the ‘count’ field in the combined IBLT indicates the origin of
an element in a pure cell: a count of 1 signifies an element exclusive
to the receiver’s set (𝐵\𝐴 ), while a count of -1 indicates an element
exclusive to the sender’s set (𝐴\𝐵 ). The peeling algorithm proceeds
as before, with a modification: when an element is recovered with
a count of -1, its contribution is added to the IBLT to remove its
effect, whereas for a count of 1, its contribution is subtracted.
As depicted in Figure 4, two IBLTs,IBLT𝐴 and IBLT𝐵, are used to
reconcile two large sets. Set𝐴 contains elements from 1 to 100001,
and Set𝐵 contains elements from 3 to 100003. This example high-
lights the space-efficiency of IBLTs. Despite the large size of the
original sets (approximately 100,000 elements each), the IBLTs are
sized in proportion to the cardinality of the symmetric difference,
which in this case is small ( 𝑑= 4), consisting of elements 1, 2,
100002, and 100003. The IBLTs shown in the figure have only 6
cells.
The combined IBLT at the bottom of the figure represents the
symmetric difference. The peeling algorithm is then applied. Cells
with index 0, 1, 4, and 5 are pure, allowing for the identification and
recovery of elements 1, 2, and 100002. From their respective ‘count‘
values, we can determine that 1 and 2 are exclusive to the sender
(count of -1), while 100002 is exclusive to the receiver (count of 1).
After peeling away the identified elements, only 100003 remains in
the combined IBLT, which can then be recovered.
3.3.3 Set reconciliation with rateless IBLTs.The concept of rateless
set reconciliation [12] provides an elegant solution to the problem of
an unknown symmetric difference size. Instead of a fixed-size IBLT,
a party can generate a virtually endless stream of IBLT cells. The
opposing party simply consumes this stream until it has received
enough cells to successfully decode the symmetric difference.
This is achieved by changing the way we map elements to cells
such that we can generate an infinite sequence: instead of using𝑘
hash functions, this approach uses a pseudo-random number gener-
ator (PRNG). The PRNG, seeded with an element’s hash, determin-
istically generates a sequence of cell mappings for that element. By
streaming these cells, the receiver can process them as they arrive.
Since both parties use the same PRNG seeded by the same element
hashes, the cell mappings are identical on both sides, ensuring that
common elements cancel out as expected.
The key insight is that the PRNG can be designed to produce
mappings that follow a specific probability distribution. Theoretical
analysis and Monte Carlo simulations show that with an appropri-
ate distribution, the number of cells required for decoding is directly
proportional to the size of the symmetric difference,𝑑. On average,
the number of cells needed is approximately1.72𝑑 for small𝑑 and
approaches1.35𝑑as𝑑becomes large.
This rateless approach eliminates the need for any prior estima-
tion of𝑑, simplifying the protocol, reducing latency, and guarantee-
ing that the communication overhead is only as large as necessary
to resolve the actual set difference.
4 ADAPTING MULLIN’S COST MODEL FOR
SET RECONCILIATION
To address the problem of selecting an optimal static Bloom filter
size for an unknown symmetric difference𝑑, we propose a rateless
Bloom filter approach inspired by rateless IBLTs. Our protocol de-
fines a conceptual, infinite partitioned Bloom filter and continuously
streams its partitions (also referred to as slices) from the sender to
the receiver. The receiver processes this stream and, at each step,
evaluates a cost-based decision to terminate the transmission.
In Mullin’s pioneering work on Bloom joins, the communication
was turn-based. The sender would generate and transmit a small
Bloom filter, configured with a single hash function and an optimal
density of1/ln(2) bits per element. The receiver would then process
this filter, decide whether to stop, and if not, request another.
This concept of small, one-hash filters can be directly seen as
a variant of a partitioned Bloom filter. Each𝑘 partitions (or slices)
transmitted in sequence form a complete partitioned Bloom filter
with𝑘 hash functions. This allows our approach to leverage the
extensive work done on this Bloom filter variant.
In our work, the sender does not wait for a confirmation be-
fore sending additional slices. Instead, it continuously generates
and streams them until it receives a signal to stop. This design
significantly decreases latency by avoiding the round-trip delay
between the sender and receiver. The trade-off is a small, potential
communication overhead if slices are transmitted unnecessarily
due to network latency between the receiver’s decision to stop and
the sender receiving that signal.
The core of our method is the adaptation of Mullin’s cost-based
decision model for the set reconciliation problem. The total com-
munication cost is the sum of the costs to identify the elements
exclusive to each replica’s set:
Total Cost=Cost(𝐴\𝐵)+Cost(𝐵\𝐴)
The cost for a single-direction identification is composed of the
Bloom filter size and the cost of transmitting the remaining false

Rateless Bloom Filters: Set Reconciliation for Divergent Replicas with Variable-Sized Elements
positives:
Cost(𝐴\𝐵)=|BF 𝐵|+𝐶 𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑚×|FP 𝐴\𝐵|
and
Cost(𝐵\𝐴)=|BF 𝐴|+𝐶 𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑚×|FP 𝐵\𝐴|
The𝐶𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑚 term represents the communication overhead for a single
element in the final reconciliation step. For a protocol like PinSketch,
this is the size of a single digest (e.g., 64 bits). For rateless IBLTs,
it is the size of an IBLT cell multiplied by the average number of
cells needed per element. The receiver continuously computes the
cost-benefit of each additional Bloom filter partition. The stream is
stopped when the number of new true negatives that are detected
by a new partition becomes less than the number of elements that
could be reconciled by the set reconciliation protocol using an
equivalent number of bits.
5 HYBRID RATELESS SET RECONCILIATION
The description of Rateless Bloom filters so far has been generic,
as they can be combined with many different set reconciliation
protocols. In this work, we combine rateless Bloom filters with
rateless IBLTs, resulting in a protocol which we call Hybrid Rateless
Set Reconciliation. The reason for this alignment is simple: any
other state-of-the-art set reconciliation protocol (like PinSketch)
requires an estimate of the symmetric difference cardinality,𝑑. This
would mean that after exchanging the rateless Bloom filters, we
would need to obtain an estimate for the number of false positives
(the new𝑑′). In contrast, rateless IBLTs require no such estimate
and naturally adapt to the true value of𝑑′. As the entire purpose
of this work is to eliminate the need for set difference cardinality
estimations, we believe these two algorithms align nicely to create
a fully self-adapting protocol.
As was already explained, the estimated cost per false positive
is the size of an IBLT cell multiplied by the expected number of
cells per difference. We use1.35as the expected number of cells per
difference in the cost calculation, as this is the value the ratio con-
verges to. We denote the cost per element in the final reconciliation
phase as𝐶𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑚 .
The full synchronization protocol is shown in Algorithm 1. The
protocol is executed in three distinct phases: two sequential Bloom
filter-based identification phases followed by a final, precise IBLT-
based reconciliation phase.
5.1 Phase 1: Unidirectional RBF Streaming
The protocol initiates with replica𝐴 continuously generating and
streaming Bloom filter slices. Following the established optimal
parameterization for Bloom filters[1], the total filter size𝑚 required
for maximum information density is𝑚=(𝑛·𝑘)/ln( 2), where𝑛 is
the set size and𝑘 is the number of hash functions. Adopting the
settings used by Mullin [9], we configure each slice with a single
hash function (𝑘= 1) and a slice size𝑚 defined by the following
optimal value:𝑚=𝑛/ln(2).
Each slice, indexed by 𝑖, is then generated using the function
generateSlice(𝑆,𝑖) , which produces a Bloom filter representation
of set𝑆 using a single hash function. Specifically, each element𝑥∈𝑆
is inserted into the slice by setting the bit at position𝐻(𝑥∥𝑖)mod𝑚 ,
where𝐻 is a hash function and∥ denotes concatenation. This design
avoids the need for both replicas to agree in advance on a fixed
set of hash functions, as the slice index effectively acts as a hash
function selector. Conceptually, an infinite sequence of Bloom filter
slices is defined for a given set, and replica𝐴 continuously streams
growing prefixes of this sequence.
Replica B uses these slices to iteratively partition its local set𝑆𝐵
into𝑆com
𝐵 (suspected common elements that pass the membership
test) and𝑆TN
𝐵 (elements that are confirmed not to be in𝑆𝐴, i.e. true
negatives). Initially, all elements are considered suspected common.
With each new slice, the ‘partition‘ function is invoked to refine this
categorization. The function partition(𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑚
𝐵 , RBF𝑆𝐴[𝑖]) tests all
elements in a set against the received Bloom filter slice, returning a
tuple of two subsets: the first for elements that pass the membership
test (and remain in the ‘suspected common‘ set), and the second
for elements that fail the test (and are moved to the ‘true negatives‘
set).
The second subset corresponds to the newly revealed negatives.
The stream from replica 𝐴 is terminated based on a cost-based
stopping criterion. When the condition |𝑆new_TN
𝐵 |<𝑚/𝐶 𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑚 is
verified, it signifies that the cost of a new𝑚-bit slice (𝑚) exceeds the
cost of reconciling those elements directly using set reconciliation
(the number of newly revealed true negatives,|𝑆new_TN
𝐵 |, multiplied
by the cost to reconcile an element in the final phase, 𝐶𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑚 ). At
this point, replica𝐴is signaled to stop.
5.2 Phase 2: Bidirectional Partitioning
Upon receiving the stop signal, replica𝐵 constructs and streams a
new RBF over its ‘suspected common‘ elements to replica𝐴. This
enables𝐴 to apply the same partitioning procedure to its own set
𝑆𝐴, producing subsets𝑆com
𝐴 and𝑆TN
𝐴 . This bidirectional exchange
ensures that both replicas have identified a common set of elements
and a set of local true negatives.
5.3 Phase 3: Rateless IBLT Reconciliation
The final phase uses rateless set reconciliation to identify and re-
solve the false positives within the sets of suspected common ele-
ments,𝑆com
𝐴 and𝑆com
𝐵 . Reconciliation is performed over the fixed-
size hashes of the elements. For details on how to efficiently gener-
ate, decode, and verify IBLTs, consult the background section.
When replica𝐵 decodes the IBLT difference and identifies the
hashes of the elements it is missing from𝐴, it cannot recover the
original elements locally. Therefore, it transmits these hashes back
to𝐴, which then responds with the actual elements corresponding
to those hashes. These elements are the false positives from the RBF
phases. The algorithm concludes with each replica performing a
final set union operation, incorporating the true negatives and false
positives from its peer, thereby ensuring full set synchronization.
6 EV ALUATION
This section presents a comprehensive experimental evaluation of
our proposed rateless Bloom filter protocol. For the sake of repro-
ducibility, the full source code and all data used in our experiments
have been made publicly available.
For clarity in data presentation, the y-axis scales of our figures
are adjusted dynamically to best illustrate the characteristics of

Pedro Gomes and Carlos Baquero
Algorithm 1Hybrid Rateless Set Synchronization:
1:durable state:𝑆 𝐴,𝑆𝐵
2:local state at B:𝑆 com
𝐵 ←𝑆 𝐵,𝑆 TN
𝐵 ←∅
3:local state at A:𝑆 com
𝐴 ←𝑆 𝐴,𝑆 TN
𝐴 ←∅
4:whileB has not signaled stopdo
5:send 𝐴,𝐵(RBFStream,𝑖,generateSlice(𝑆 𝐴,𝑖))
6:𝑖←𝑖+1
7:end while
8:procedureOnReceive 𝐴,𝐵(RBFStream,𝑖,RBF 𝑆𝐴[𝑖])
9:(𝑆 com
𝐵 ,𝑆 new_TN
𝐵 )←partition(𝑆 com
𝐵 ,RBF𝑆𝐴[𝑖])
10:𝑆 TN
𝐵 ←𝑆 TN
𝐵 ∪𝑆 new_TN
𝐵
11:𝑚←|𝑆 𝐴|/ln(2)
12:if|𝑆 new_TN
𝐵 |<𝑚/𝐶 𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑚 then
13:whileA has not signaled stopdo
14:send 𝐵,𝐴(RBFStream,𝑗,generateSlice(𝑆 com
𝐵 ,𝑗))
15:𝑗←𝑗+1
16:end while
17:end if
18:end procedure
19:procedureOnReceive 𝐵,𝐴(RBFStream,𝑗,RBF 𝑆com
𝐵
[𝑗])
20:(𝑆 com
𝐴 ,𝑆 new_TN
𝐴 )←partition(𝑆 com
𝐴 ,RBF𝑆com
𝐵
[𝑗])
21:𝑆 TN
𝐴 ←𝑆 TN
𝐴 ∪𝑆 new_TN
𝐴
22:𝑚←|𝑆 com
𝐵 |/ln(2)
23:if|𝑆 new_TN
𝐴 |<𝑚/𝐶 𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑚 then
24:𝐻 𝐴←{hash(𝑠)|𝑠∈𝑆 com
𝐴 }
25:whileB has not signaled stopdo
26:send 𝐴,𝐵(IBLTStream,𝑘,generateIBLTCell(𝐻 𝐴,𝑘))
27:𝑘←𝑘+1
28:end while
29:end if
30:end procedure
31:procedureOnReceive 𝐴,𝐵(IBLTStream,𝑘,IBLT 𝐻𝐴[𝑘])
32:𝐻 𝐵←{hash(𝑠)|𝑠∈𝑆 com
𝐵 }
33:IBLT Δ[𝑘]←generateIBLTCell(𝐻 𝐵,𝑘)⊕IBLT 𝐻𝐴[𝑘]
34:ifIBLT Δ is decodablethen
35:(𝐻 𝐴\𝐵,𝐻𝐵\𝐴)←decode(IBLT Δ)
36:𝑆 FP
𝐵 ←{𝑠|𝑠∈𝑆 com
𝐵 ∧hash(𝑠)∈𝐻 𝐵\𝐴}
37:send 𝐵,𝐴(FinalUpdate,𝑆 TN
𝐵 ,𝑆 FP
𝐵 ,𝐻𝐴\𝐵)
38:end if
39:end procedure
40:procedureOnReceive 𝐵,𝐴(FinalUpdate,𝑆 TN
𝐵 ,𝑆 FP
𝐵 ,𝐻𝐴\𝐵)
41:𝑆 FP
𝐴 ←{𝑠|𝑠∈𝑆 com
𝐴 ∧hash(𝑠)∈𝐻 𝐴\𝐵}
42:𝑆 𝐴←𝑆 𝐴∪𝑆 TN
𝐵 ∪𝑆 FP
𝐵
43:send 𝐴,𝐵(FinalUpdate,𝑆 TN
𝐴 ,𝑆 FP
𝐴)
44:end procedure
45:procedureOnReceive 𝐴,𝐵(FinalUpdate,𝑆 TN
𝐴 ,𝑆 FP
𝐴 )
46:𝑆 𝐵←𝑆 𝐵∪𝑆 TN
𝐴 ∪𝑆 FP
𝐴
47:end procedure
each metric. Therefore, readers should note that the scales may
vary across plots when making comparisons.
6.1 Experimental Setup
This section details the methodology used to evaluate our protocol’s
performance against state-of-the-art set reconciliation algorithms.
Our entire evaluation was conducted in a controlled simulation
environment to ensure reproducibility and accurate measurement of
both communication and computational overheads. All experiments
were executed on a single machine to eliminate network latency
and variability, with communication costs calculated by measuring
the serialized byte size of all inter-replica messages.
A fundamental principle of set reconciliation protocols is that
they must eventually transmit the differing elements to each replica,
which constitutes a theoretical minimum communication cost. All
state-of-the-art methods, with the exception of full state transfer,
are designed to achieve this. As such, the total amount of mis-
matched state data transmitted is a constant across all algorithms
for a given set of differences. The only variable component is the
size of themetadatarequired to identify the changed elements.
Our evaluation, therefore, focuses on minimizing this variable cost.
The distribution of element sizes does not affect the metadata
cost. Bloom filters are inherently independent of element size, as
they operate by setting a fixed number of bits based on an element’s
hash rather than storing the element itself. Similarly, other state-of-
the-art set reconciliation algorithms operate on fixed-size digests
of elements. The size of these digests is chosen to minimize hash
collisions with high probability, regardless of the original element
size distribution. While different element size distributions exist
in real-world scenarios and could affect the overall impact of the
metadata cost, the relative comparison of algorithms remains unaf-
fected. For these experiments, we used a uniform distribution over
the interval[5,80]bytes.
Instructions on how to reproduce all experiments can be found
in our public repository.1
6.1.1 Workload and Methodology.For each experiment, we gen-
erated two replica sets, 𝑆𝐴 and𝑆𝐵, each with a fixed cardinality
of 100,000 distinct items. The differences between these sets were
distributed symmetrically such that|𝑆𝐴\𝑆𝐵|=|𝑆 𝐵\𝑆𝐴|. The total
number of differing elements,𝑑=|𝑆 𝐴\𝑆𝐵|+|𝑆 𝐵\𝑆𝐴|, was precisely
controlled to achieve a target similarity𝑠, defined by the Jaccard
index, which is standard in the literature:
𝑠=𝐽(𝑆 𝐴,𝑆𝐵)= |𝑆𝐴∩𝑆𝐵|
|𝑆𝐴∪𝑆𝐵|
In our experiments, we plotted all metrics against the number
of differing elements 𝑑. The values of 𝑑 were chosen such that
the similarity between the sets ranges from 0% to 100%, in 5%
increments.
To ensure the statistical validity of our results, for each data
point (i.e., each number of differing elements), we executed the
experiment 30 times with different randomly generated sets. The
plots present the average value for each metric, with a shaded
surface area showing the±1standard deviation.
6.1.2 Metrics.We quantified the performance of each algorithm
using the following key metrics:
1https://github.com/pedrogomes29/rbf

Rateless Bloom Filters: Set Reconciliation for Divergent Replicas with Variable-Sized Elements
• Transmitted Metadata:The total data size of all informa-
tion required to detect the differing elements.
• Total Transmitted Data:The sum of the transmitted meta-
data and the serialized state data of the differing elements.
• Communication Overhead:The ratio of the total trans-
mitted data to the theoretical minimum communication
cost (i.e., the cost of simply transmitting the differing ele-
ments). This metric is undefined for a similarity of 100%, as
the minimum cost is zero.
• Encoding Time:The time required for a replica to con-
struct the data structures for transmission.
• Decoding Time:The time required for a replica to process
the received data structures and identify the mismatched
elements.
• Computation Time:The sum of the encoding and decod-
ing times, representing the total computational cost of the
reconciliation protocol.
6.2 Static Bloom Filters vs Rateless Bloom
Filters
In this experiment, we evaluate the communication and computa-
tional costs of our proposed rateless Bloom filter (RBF) against two
classes of static Bloom filters (SBFs). The first class consists of SBFs
with fixed false positive rates (𝜖), representing common configu-
rations an application might blindly choose. The second, denoted
as Optimal SBF, serves as a theoretical performance baseline. This
optimal baseline was obtained by generating all SBF configurations
with false positive rates from0.5%to50%in0 .5%increments and
selecting the configuration with the minimum communication cost
for each level of set difference cardinality. This comparison allows
us to evaluate the practical efficiency of our adaptive RBF against
both potentially unoptimized static configurations and the (full
knowledge) theoretical lower bound of a static approach.
6.2.1 Transmitted Metadata and Communication Overhead.The
transmitted metadata graph in Figure 5a illustrates the core ad-
vantage of a rateless design. As depicted, the rateless Bloom filter
(RBF) consistently traces the theoretical minimum of an optimal
static Bloom filter (SBF). This demonstrates that our RBF closely
approximates the performance of a standard Bloom filter whose
false positive rate is perfectly tuned for each specific similarity
level, without any need for parameterization or prior estimation of
set difference cardinalities. In contrast, while a static Bloom filter’s
metadata cost is fixed regardless of set difference, its rigid design
incurs a significant penalty for inadequately chosen false positive
rates. For completely dissimilar sets (maximum difference cardi-
nality), a Bloom filter with a high false positive rate of 𝜖= 25%
transmits over7× more metadata compared to our rateless filter.
Conversely, for highly similar states (minimal differences), a Bloom
filter configured for a low false positive rate of 𝜖= 1%transmits
over4×more metadata.
These differences in transmitted metadata directly impact the
communication overhead. As shown in Figure 5b, our rateless
Bloom filter consistently follows the most efficient static configura-
tion for any given point in the set difference space. Static config-
urations, on the other hand, face significant overheads when not
optimized for the specific level of set divergence. This highlights
the practical limitations of static designs in real-world scenarios
where set differences can vary widely.
6.2.2 Computation Time.The encoding and decoding times of the
protocols, depicted in Figures 5c and 5d, reveal a more nuanced
perspective on performance. While communication overhead is a
primary metric, the computational efficiency determines practical
feasibility.
Encoding Time.The encoding time graph in Figure 5c shows a
non-linear behavior for the static Bloom filter configurations, char-
acterized by an initial increase, a peak, and a subsequent decrease.
This can be explained by the computational complexity of the rec-
onciliation process. Replica A constructs a Bloom filter over its
entire set𝑆𝐴. Replica B constructs a Bloom filter over the elements
of its set𝑆𝐵 that test positive. Both replicas then build a Rateless
IBLT over their respective positive partitions. The dominant cost
for this process is the construction of the Rateless IBLT, which is
an𝑂(𝑛log𝑑) operation. Here,𝑛 represents the number of elements
in the positive partition of the local set, and 𝑑 is the number of
false positives remaining in both sets. This complexity arises from
inserting𝑛 elements into a Rateless IBLT of size𝑂(𝑑) , with each
insertion being an𝑂(log𝑑)operation.
The distinct shape of the encoding time curves is the result of two
competing dynamics. As the number of differences increases, the
size of the set intersection decreases, which causes the number of
true positives to decrease, lowering𝑛. However, some of these true
positives which are now negative will test positive, resulting in an
increase in the number of false positives. Initially, the logarithmic
growth in𝑑 dominates the linear decrease in𝑛, causing the encoding
time to rise. A maximum is reached when these two forces balance,
after which the linear decrease in𝑛 becomes the dominant factor,
causing the overall computation time to decrease for high levels of
set difference.
Furthermore, the encoding time is directly impacted by the false
positive rate,𝜖, of the initial Bloom filter. A higher𝜖 results in more
false positives, thus increasing both 𝑑 and𝑛, and consequently
shifting the entire encoding time curve upwards. This behavior also
explains the performance of the Optimal SBF. For small differences,
its optimal 𝜖 is high, aligning its performance with the high- 𝜖
SBF curves. As differences increase, its optimal 𝜖 decreases, and
its curve converges toward the performance of low-𝜖 SBFs. The
Rateless Bloom Filter (RBF) exhibits the same adaptive behavior,
as its effective false positive rate decreases as the filter becomes
larger for higher set differences. Consequently, the RBF consistently
approximates the performance of the idealized Optimal SBF.
Decoding Time.The decoding time, presented in Figure 5d, is
a composite metric reflecting two primary computational costs:
testing all elements against the received Bloom filter and the subse-
quent decoding of the Rateless IBLT. The complexity of decoding
the Rateless IBLT is𝑂(𝑑log𝑑) , where𝑑 is the number of false pos-
itives remaining after the Bloom filter stage. Unlike Bloom filter
operations whose cost is tied to the total set cardinality, the IBLT
decoding cost is proportional only to the number of differences,
which can be significantly smaller than the full set cardinality.
For static configurations, a higher false positive rate (𝜖) corre-
sponds to a smaller Bloom filter and fewer hash functions, leading

Pedro Gomes and Carlos Baquero
0 25 k 50 k 75 k 100 k 125 k 150 k 175 k 200 k
Set Difference Cardinality
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75Metadata (MB)
SBF + RIBLT [ε = 1%]
SBF + RIBLT [ε = 10%]
SBF + RIBLT [ε = 25%]
RBF + RIBLT
Optimal SBF + RIBLT
(a) Transmitted metadata
0 25 k 50 k 75 k 100 k 125 k 150 k 175 k 200 k
Set Difference Cardinality
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0Communication Overhead
SBF + RIBLT [ε = 1%]
SBF + RIBLT [ε = 10%]
SBF + RIBLT [ε = 25%]
RBF + RIBLT
Optimal SBF + RIBLT (b) Communication overhead
0 25 k 50 k 75 k 100 k 125 k 150 k 175 k 200 k
Set Difference Cardinality
0
200
400
600
800
1000Encoding Time (ms)
SBF + RIBLT [ε = 1%]
SBF + RIBLT [ε = 10%]
SBF + RIBLT [ε = 25%]
RBF + RIBLT
Optimal SBF + RIBLT
(c) Encoding Time
0 25 k 50 k 75 k 100 k 125 k 150 k 175 k 200 k
Set Difference Cardinality
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
200Decoding Time (ms)
SBF + RIBLT [ε = 1%]
SBF + RIBLT [ε = 10%]
SBF + RIBLT [ε = 25%]
RBF + RIBLT
Optimal SBF + RIBLT (d) Decoding Time
Figure 5: Static Bloom Filters vs. Rateless Bloom filters
to a lower computational cost for the initial Bloom filter opera-
tions. However, as the number of differences grows, the number
of false positives, 𝑑, also increases, and the cost of decoding the
IBLT becomes the dominant factor. The lower the false positive
rate, the fewer the false positives, and as a result, the decoding cost
increases less for lower false positive rates. A particularly interest-
ing observation is the behavior of the𝜖= 1%configuration, where
the decoding cost remains nearly constant. This is because the in-
creasing cost of IBLT decoding is balanced by a decreasing cost
of testing elements against the second-stage Bloom filter, whose
size shrinks as the number of elements that test positive in the first
Bloom filter decreases. The Optimal SBF’s decoding time follows
the lowest decoding time of the three static configurations. This
is because the optimal false positive rate for transmitted data and
decoding time both follow the same pattern: it starts at high false
positive rates and decreases as the number of differences increases.
The decoding time of our Rateless Bloom Filter (RBF), presented
in Figure 5d, exhibits a non-monotonic behavior, initially increas-
ing and then decreasing. This decoding time is characterized by a
notably higher absolute cost, particularly for a low number of dif-
ferences. We hypothesize this is due to the computational overhead
associated with the iterative nature of the rateless approach, which
has less locality compared to a standard Bloom filter’s single-pass
partitioning. For small set differences, where the𝑂(𝑑log𝑑) decod-
ing cost of the Rateless IBLT is minimal, the difference between the
Bloom filter decoding times becomes more pronounced. A similar
overhead is likely present in the encoding phase but is less notice-
able as that operation is dominated by the asymptotically more
expensive𝑂(𝑛log𝑑)complexity of constructing the IBLT.
The complex shape of the RBF decoding curve is a result of a
larger decrease in the cost of the second Bloom filter operation,
which outweighs the concurrent increase in the Rateless IBLT de-
coding cost. As the number of differences increases, the𝑂(𝑑log𝑑)
factor becomes the dominant component for both RBF and Optimal
SBF, causing their decoding times to converge. Ultimately, since
encoding time is the most expensive operation for all configura-
tions, the RBF’s larger decoding cost has a limited impact on the
total computation time.

Rateless Bloom Filters: Set Reconciliation for Divergent Replicas with Variable-Sized Elements
6.2.3 Conclusion.In conclusion, our Rateless Bloom Filter offers
an adaptive and robust solution for set reconciliation. It consis-
tently traces the theoretical minimum of an optimally configured
SBF, avoiding the suboptimal communication costs of misconfig-
ured Bloom filters without requiring any set difference cardinality
estimations or parameterization. While the RBF does incur a slightly
larger computational time, this overhead has a limited impact on
the total computation time. Standard Bloom filters remain a viable
option in specific scenarios where the set difference cardinality can
be efficiently and accurately estimated (e.g., if one set is a subset
of the other), allowing the use of an optimally configured SBF. Fur-
thermore, if the number of differences is known to be very large
(e.g., Jaccard index≤ 50%), the communication cost of the𝜖= 1%
configuration is practically the same as that of the RBF and the
Optimal SBF, making it a competitive choice.
6.3 Hybrid Rateless Set Reconciliation vs
State-Of-The-Art
We now compare our proposed Hybrid Rateless Set Reconciliation
protocol (RBF + RIBLT) against three state-of-the-art algorithms:
PinSketch [2], Parity Bitmap Sketch (PBS) [5], and Rateless IBLTs
(RIBLT) [12].
We select these methods because they represent the state-of-the-
art protocols operating on fixed-size elements:
• PinSketchis the algorithm that represents the minimal
(fixed sized) communication cost. For fixed-size elements,
the communication cost corresponds to the number of dif-
fering elements times the element size, achieving an optimal
communication complexity ofO(𝑑) . However, its high de-
coding complexity ofO(𝑑 2) makes it generally untractable
for practical use cases where𝑑 is not guaranteed to be small.
• PBShas a higher communication overhead than PinSketch
but maintains anO(𝑑) communication complexity. Cru-
cially, it improves tractability with a linear decoding com-
plexity ofO(𝑑) . PBS is an interactive protocol that can
require multiple communication rounds, introducing addi-
tional latency.
• RIBLT(Rateless IBLT) also exhibits a higher communica-
tion overhead than PinSketch, maintaining anO(𝑑) com-
plexity. Its decoding complexity isO(𝑑log𝑑) , which, while
larger than PBS, is still tractable for large𝑑 (unlikeO(𝑑 2)).
A significant practical limitation shared by both PinSketch and PBS
is the mandatory requirement for an accurate, pre-estimated value
of the set difference cardinality 𝑑 to correctly parameterize the
algorithm. Our Hybrid RBF + RIBLT protocol, along with the pure
RIBLT, eliminates this requirement entirely, making them adaptive
to unknown set divergence.
PinSketch, PBS, and RIBLT are allO(𝑑) protocols for metadata
cost. In contrast, our hybrid RBF + RIBLT approach, which in-
volves the exchange of Bloom filters, introduces an O(𝑛) com-
ponent, where 𝑛 is the total set cardinality. However, the small
constants present in Bloom filters make them competitive with the
state-of-the-art methods when𝑑 is not extremely small compared
with𝑛.
As just explained, PinSketch and PBS require an estimate for𝑑.
Additionally, PBS requires parameter tuning based on this estimate.
We define the experimental conditions as follows:
• PinSketchis included solely as a communication base-
line representing the theoretical minimum. Due to its un-
tractableO(𝑑 2) decoding complexity, this algorithm is not
reasonable for the use case we focus on in this work. In
order to evaluate how Hybrid Rateless Set Reconciliation
performs against the minimum possible metadata size when
synchronizing the fixed-size digests, in this experiment we
assume an oracle provides the algorithm with the exact
value of𝑑.
• PBSis simulated as it would be used in a real-world set-
ting, following the approach in the PBS experiments by
leveraging it’s open source implementation. We use a ToW
estimator to obtain the estimate for𝑑 and performed param-
eter tuning consistent with the original PBS experiments
(ensuring a99%probability of finishing within 3 rounds,
with 5 differences per group on average).
6.3.1 Full range of similarity.
Transmitted Metadata and Communication Overhead.Figures 6b
and 6a present the communication performance. Focusing first on
the threeO(𝑑) SOTA algorithms, their Communication Overhead
remains practically constant, independent of 𝑑. This is expected
as the metadata required per recovered difference does not vary
significantly. In PinSketch, the metadata is the size of one digest
per difference. For Rateless IBLTs, the expected metadata size is
between1.35𝑑 and1.72𝑑 symbols (peaking at smaller𝑑 values and
converging to1.35𝑑), and since the overhead is normalized by the
minimal communication possible, it appears constant.
As expected, PinSketch has the lowest communication overhead
among the SOTA methods. Between RIBLT and PBS, RIBLT has the
higher overhead. The expected number of symbols to synchronize
𝑑 differences is1 .35− 1.72𝑑. Furthermore, each symbol requires
a fixed-size hashSum and a count field. In our implementation,
the idSum (digest) and hashSum are both 64 bits to ensure low
collision probability. Even ignoring the 64-bit count field (which
could potentially be smaller), the expected communication overhead
of RIBLTs is2 .7− 3.48× larger than PinSketch. PBS has a lower
communication overhead, measured as1 .54− 2.08× higher than
PinSketch [5].
Hybrid Rateless Set Reconciliation (RBF + RIBLT), due to its
O(𝑁) Bloom filter component, initially has a high communication
overhead. In fact, for the highest similarities (95%≤similarity≤
100%), our protocol’s overhead is even higher than that of RIBLT.
The next experiment will focus on this region of high similarity to
understand this trade-off.
However, over the total spectrum of differences, the small con-
stants of the Bloom filter allow the RBF + RIBLT to scale very
efficiently. When the similarity is lower than85%( 𝑑≈ 18k), Hy-
brid Rateless Set Reconciliation becomes the most communication-
efficient protocol, outperforming even the oracle-parameterized
PinSketch baseline, the minimum for fixed-size element set reconcil-
iation algorithms. we will show that PinSketch is too computation-
ally expensive to be used in practice even for moderate values of𝑑.

Pedro Gomes and Carlos Baquero
0 50 k 100 k 150 k 200 k
Set Difference Cardinality
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8Communication Overhead
PinSketch
RIBLT
PBS
RBF + RIBLT
(a) Communication Overhead
0 50 k 100 k 150 k 200 k
Set Difference Cardinality
0
2
4
6Metadata (MB)
PinSketch
RIBLT
PBS
RBF + RIBLT (b) Transmitted metadata
0 50 k 100 k 150 k 200 k
Set Difference Cardinality
0
500
1000
1500Encoding Time (ms)
RIBLT
PBS
RBF + RIBLT (c) Encoding Time
0 50 k 100 k 150 k 200 k
Set Difference Cardinality
0
200
400
600
800Decoding Time (ms)
RIBLT
PBS
RBF + RIBLT (d) Decoding Time
Figure 6: Hybrid Rateless Set Reconciliation vs State-Of-The-Art: Full range
0 25 k 50 k 75 k 100 k 125 k 150 k 175 k 200 k
Set Difference Cardinality
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16Transmitted (MB)
PinSketch
RIBLT
PBS
Full State Transfer
RBF + RIBLT
Figure 7: Hybrid Rateless Set Reconciliation vs State-Of-The-
Art: Full range - Transmitted total
Thus, RBF + RIBLT results in the least communication cost among
all computationally tractable algorithms for a similarity lower than
90%(𝑑≈ 12k). Additionally, it maintains the practical advantage
over PBS (the second best) of not requiring any estimation of𝑑or
parameter tuning.
Figure 6b clearly illustrates the difference in metadata transmis-
sion: RBF + RIBLT leads to much smaller metadata transmissions as
the number of differences grows compared to the state-of-the-art
protocols, achieving up to a92%reduction in metadata transfer.
Note that these four reconciliation algorithms are ultimately tasked
with transmitting the same differing state (the elements themselves).
Hence, the only variable cost we can minimize is the metadata re-
quired to identify these differences, a cost which our algorithm
reduces by up to92%.
Figure 7 shows how this impacts the total transmitted data, which
includes the fixed cost of the differing variable-sized elements. For
comparison, we also plot the performance of a Full State Transfer
algorithm, where Replica A sends its entire state to B, which then
computes and sends back the missing differences. The purpose
of including this baseline is to evaluate whether reconciliation
protocols remain advantageous for very large differences.
The total transmitted data analysis leads to two main observa-
tions: First, Hybrid Rateless Set Reconciliation leads to a reduction
in transmitted data of approximately20%for large differences com-
pared to PinSketch, the state-of-the-art minimum for synchronizing
fixed-size element digests. This reduction is larger than30%when
compared to the computationally tractable SOTA algorithms (PBS
and RIBLT). As noted previously, RBF + RIBLT also performs best
for similarities below85%.
Second, we observe how the algorithms compare to Full State
Transfer. PBS results in more total data transfer than Full State
Transfer for similarities below30%, while for PinSketch, the crossover
point is at20%similarity. For Hybrid Rateless Set Reconciliation,
Full State Transfer is only more efficient for the very lowest simi-
larities, and even in those cases, the additional overhead of RBF +
RIBLT is very low, performing practically equally.
Computation Time.The computational cost of the reconcilia-
tion protocols is analyzed through Encoding Time (Figure 6c) and
Decoding Time (Figure 6d). We do not include the computation
time for PinSketch in these full-range graphs because its O(𝑑 2)
complexity makes it untractable for large values of 𝑑, as we will
demonstrate in the high-similarity experiment.
The Encoding Time in Figure 6c shows that pure RIBLT has a
higher cost than PBS. However, a key advantage of RIBLT is that
its encoding process can be amortized over set updates: since the
RIBLT relies on a universal sequence of symbols, a large prefix can
be precomputed and maintained by inserting or deleting elements
as the set is updated. In contrast, the data structures in PBS must be
built using parameters dependent on the specific estimate of𝑑 for a
given reconciliation attempt, meaning they cannot be precomputed.
Furthermore, the PBS encoding time shown does not account for the
computation time necessary for obtaining the estimate of𝑑 or for
parameter tuning, in accordance with the original PBS experiments
whose source code we leveraged.
The encoding time for Hybrid Rateless Set Reconciliation (RBF +
RIBLT) is initially higher than PBS, but as the number of differences
becomes large, RBF + RIBLT becomes more efficient than PBS.
For large differences, RBF + RIBLT offers both less encoding time
and a lower communication cost than PBS. While comparing pure
RIBLT and RBF + RIBLT encoding time is less relevant if RIBLT is
amortized, we can see that if encoding cannot be amortized, pure
RIBLT exhibits a high encoding time, consistently larger than RBF
+ RIBLT.
For Decoding Times (Figure 6d), PBS’s linear complexityO(𝑑)
is theoretically faster than RIBLT’sO(𝑑log𝑑) , which is reflected
in the graph. The decoding time for RBF + RIBLT is initially higher

Rateless Bloom Filters: Set Reconciliation for Divergent Replicas with Variable-Sized Elements
than PBS but becomes smaller as𝑑 grows large. This once again
confirms that for large 𝑑, RBF + RIBLT is superior, being both
computationally less expensive and having a lower communication
cost than PBS.
If we consider the total computation time and amortize RIBLT’s
encoding cost (treating it as 0), the total computation time for RI-
BLTs would be smaller than PBS’s total cost. The total computation
time for RBF + RIBLT is initially higher than both PBS and amor-
tized RIBLT but becomes the lowest as𝑑increases.
6.3.2 High similarity.In this experiment, we focus on similarities
between 85% and 100% with 0.5% increments. This is precisely the
range of similarities in which hybrid rateless set reconciliation is not
the best performing algorithm, and the purpose of this experiment
is to visualize what the overhead is.
Transmitted Metadata and Communication Overhead.Figure 8a
shows communication overhead. The comparison between PinS-
ketch, PBS, and RIBLT in terms of data transfer is largely indepen-
dent of the experiment range. The focus here is on the trade-off
introduced by RBF + RIBLT. This figure confirms that for very small
𝑑 (e.g. corresponding to a similarity of0.5%), the communication
overhead for RBF + RIBLT is significantly higher than state-of-the-
art methods. This initial overhead is due to transmitting the Bloom
filter of sizeO(𝑁), where𝑁is much larger than the small𝑑.
Figure 8b shows the metadata costs. When synchronizing identi-
cal states (𝑑= 0), RBF + RIBLT has a much larger (percentage-wise)
metadata cost, sending close to50 KB while other algorithms re-
quire only a few bytes to detect convergence. This makes it clear
that RBF + RIBLT is not the ideal choice for anti-entropy protocols
where extremely small differences (if any) are expected between
frequent synchronization rounds.
However, as𝑑 increases, the introduction of RBFs quickly be-
comes beneficial. For similarities below97 .5%(𝑑≈ 2.5k), RBF +
RIBLT is already more communication-efficient than pure RIBLT.
Furthermore, as was shown in the full-range experiment, RBF +
RIBLT outperforms PBS below90%similarity and then PinSketch
below85%similarity. For the critical use case of synchronizing
potentially very dissimilar states (e.g., bringing an outdated replica
back online after a network partition), the additional cost of using
RBF + RIBLT is never more than approximately75 KB compared
to the best-performing SOTA algorithm in this regime (PinSketch).
This is dramatically better than the additional2 MB of metadata
transfer incurred by PinSketch when compared to RBF + RIBLT at
completely dissimilar states.
This adaptability is the core advantage of RBF + RIBLT. If a
general estimate of 𝑑 (e.g., extremely small, small, moderate, or
high) is known, one can choose the best performing algorithm
for that range. If, however, one must choose a single algorithm to
synchronize states of unknown and possibly high divergence, RBF
+ RIBLT provides excellent adaptability, achieving the best overall
worst-case communication overhead.
Decoding Time with PinSketch.Figure 9 shows the decoding times
including PinSketch. The graph demonstrates the intractability of
PinSketch’sO(𝑑 2) decoding complexity, making the decoding time
of all other algorithms appear negligible. For a similarity of90%
(𝑑≈ 12.5k), PinSketch’s decoding time is already approximately
100s. In most practical use cases, the network could transfer orders
of magnitude more data in100 s than the total transmitted data
difference between PinSketch and the worst-performing communi-
cation protocol. We conclude that PinSketch is only practical if the
number of differences is extremely small, such as in highly frequent
anti-entropy protocols with a low update rate, which is not the
primary use case we address in this work.
Computation Time without PinSketch.We now analyze the en-
coding and decoding times for the three computationally tractable
algorithms. Figure 8c shows that PBS has a significantly lower en-
coding time, ranging between0and100 ms. RBF + RIBLT has an
encoding time mostly between600 ms and800 ms after an initial
jump. This jump, also seen in pure RIBLT, is due to the first symbols
having the highest encoding time per symbol (as the probability of
mapping to symbol𝑖 isO( 1/𝑖)), causing a sharp increase when𝑑
moves from zero to a positive value. As before, the encoding time
for pure RIBLT is higher than both RBF + RIBLT and PBS, but its
cost can be amortized on updates.
The Decoding Time (Figure 8d) is the lowest for PBS ( O(𝑑) ),
followed by RIBLT (O(𝑑log𝑑) ), and then RBF + RIBLT. We also
note that the computation time is largely dominated by the en-
coding time, which is almost an order of magnitude greater than
the corresponding decoding time for each algorithm and similarity
level.
Considering the trade-offs, the value of𝑑 where Hybrid Rateless
Set Reconciliation becomes the preferred choice over PBS depends
on the specific CPU and network capabilities of the deployment
environment. For similarities above90%, PBS has both lower com-
putational time and lower communication cost. For similarities
between60%and90%, PBS maintains a lower computational time
but has a higher communication cost. For similarities below60%,
RBF + RIBLT is superior in terms of both communication cost and
computation cost. As the similarity decreases from90%to60%, the
computational difference decreases while the communication dif-
ference in favor of RBF + RIBLT increases, but the exact crossover
point remains hardware dependent.
7 RELATED WORK
Set reconciliation techniques are fundamentally characterized by
an inherent trade-off between communication overhead and com-
putational complexity. Early methods like PinSketch [ 2], which
leverage error-correcting codes by treating the differing elements
as errors, achieve near-optimal𝑂(𝑑) communication (where𝑑 is
the difference cardinality) but suffer from high 𝑂(𝑑 2) decoding
complexity. The Invertible Bloom Lookup Table (IBLT) [6] solved
this computational bottleneck with efficient 𝑂(𝑑) encoding and
decoding. However, IBLTs are probabilistic and must be signifi-
cantly overprovisioned to ensure a low failure rate, increasing the
overall communication cost. The Parity Bitmap Sketch (PBS) [ 5]
balances PinSketch’s communication efficiency with IBLT’s low
O(d) computational complexity. It achieves this by employing a
divide-and-conquer strategy that partitions sets with large differ-
ences into numerous subsets (each with an expected𝑂( 1) difference
cardinality), making the otherwise high𝑂(𝑑 2) decoding complexity
of the underlying error-correcting codes computationally tractable.
Graphene [10] uses a combination of Bloom Filters (BFs) and IBLTs,

Pedro Gomes and Carlos Baquero
0 5 k 10 k 15 k
Set Difference Cardinality
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0Communication Overhead
PinSketch
RIBLT
PBS
RBF + RIBLT
(a) Communication Overhead
0 5 k 10 k 15 k
Set Difference Cardinality
0
200
400
600Metadata (kB)
PinSketch
RIBLT
PBS
RBF + RIBLT (b) Transmitted metadata
0 5 k 10 k 15 k
Set Difference Cardinality
0
250
500
750
1000
1250Encoding Time (ms)
RIBLT
PBS
RBF + RIBLT (c) Encoding Time
0 5 k 10 k 15 k
Set Difference Cardinality
0
20
40
60
80Decoding Time (ms)
RIBLT
PBS
RBF + RIBLT (d) Decoding Time
Figure 8: Hybrid Rateless Set Reconciliation vs State-Of-The-Art: High Similarity
0 5 k 10 k 15 k
Set Difference Cardinality
0
50
100
150
200Decoding Time (s)
PinSketch
RIBLT
PBS
RBF + RIBLT
Figure 9: Hybrid Rateless Set Reconciliation vs State-Of-The-
Art - Decoding Time with PinSketch
where the IBLT corrects BF false positives. The combined commu-
nication cost is lower than using either of the data structures in
isolation.
A critical, shared limitation of PinSketch, IBLTs, and PBS is the
necessity of estimating the difference cardinalitydprior to rec-
onciliation. This requirement results in an initial communication
overhead for estimation and risks protocol failure if the sketch is
insufficiently overprovisioned. Graphene [10] estimates𝑑 without
requiring an additional communication step by assuming the trans-
mitter’s set is a subset of the receiver’s. This assumption is valid in
their specific domain, but it makes Graphene unsuitable for general
symmetric difference reconciliation.
The challenge of parameter estimation is fundamentally ad-
dressed by rateless techniques. Rateless IBLTs (RIBLTs) [ 12] ex-
tend the concept by streaming a coded sequence until successful
decoding is achieved, thereby eliminating the need for adestimate.
ConflictSync [4] uses a BF/RIBLT combination to overcome the
high communication cost of RIBLTs for large𝑑, but it lacks a robust
methodology for correctly parameterizing the initial Bloom Filters.
The idea of streaming streaming small BFs [11] was previously
introduced in the context of set reconciliation. However, BFs are
exchanged interactively until convergence is achieved, lacking a
mechanism to efficiently transition to a robust O(d) set reconcilia-
tion method when the BFs exhibit diminishing returns.
8 CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
Previous research on set reconciliation has often neglected the chal-
lenge of variable-sized elements, stating that the problem can be
reduced to synchronizing fixed-size element digests. In contrast,
this work demonstrates the significant practical benefits of design-
ing reconciliation protocols tailored for variable-sized elements.
Our results show that by leveraging Bloom Filters within our hy-
brid approach, we achieve a communication cost reduction of over
20%compared to PinSketch, the state-of-the-art method for low-
est communication complexity. When considering only algorithms
that are computationally tractable with large differences, this re-
duction increases to over30%. We also introduce Rateless Bloom
Filters (RBFs), a novel adaptive Bloom filter that closely matches
the performance of an optimally configured standard Bloom Filter,
yet requires no prior parametrization or estimate of the unknown
set difference cardinalityd.
Despite these advances, our current approach is suboptimal for
replicas with extremely high similarity (Jaccard index above85%),
as initial RBF slices consume excessive bandwidth relative to the
small differenced. An interesting area of future work is inverting
the protocol: initiating reconciliation with RIBLTs. From observing
a given prefix, we can analyze the cell counts to derive a statistical
estimate of the set intersection. If the divergence is expected to be
large, this allows us to efficiently switch to RBFs.

Rateless Bloom Filters: Set Reconciliation for Divergent Replicas with Variable-Sized Elements
REFERENCES
[1] Burton H Bloom. 1970. Space/time trade-offs in hash coding with allowable
errors.Commun. ACM13, 7 (1970), 422–426.
[2] Yevgeniy Dodis, Leonid Reyzin, and Adam Smith. 2004. Fuzzy extractors: How
to generate strong keys from biometrics and other noisy data. InInternational
conference on the theory and applications of cryptographic techniques. Springer,
523–540.
[3] David Eppstein, Michael T Goodrich, Frank Uyeda, and George Varghese. 2011.
What’s the difference? Efficient set reconciliation without prior context.ACM
SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review41, 4 (2011), 218–229.
[4] Pedro Silva Gomes, Miguel Boaventura Rodrigues, and Carlos Baquero. 2025.
ConflictSync: Bandwidth Efficient Synchronization of Divergent State.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2505.01144(2025).
[5] Long Gong, Ziheng Liu, Liang Liu, Jun Xu, Mitsunori Ogihara, and Tong Yang.
2020. Space-and computationally-efficient set reconciliation via parity bitmap
sketch (PBS).arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.14569(2020).
[6] Michael T Goodrich and Michael Mitzenmacher. 2011. Invertible bloom lookup
tables. In2011 49th Annual Allerton Conference on Communication, Control, and
Computing (Allerton). IEEE, 792–799.
[7] Lothar F. Mackert and Guy M. Lohman. 1998.R* optimizer validation and
performance evaluation for distributed queries. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc.,
San Francisco, CA, USA, 351–361.
[8] James K Mullin. 1983. A second look at Bloom filters.Commun. ACM26, 8 (1983),
570–571.
[9] James K. Mullin. 2002. Optimal semijoins for distributed database systems.IEEE
Transactions on Software Engineering16, 5 (2002), 558–560.
[10] A Pinar Ozisik, Gavin Andresen, Brian N Levine, Darren Tapp, George Bissias,
and Sunny Katkuri. 2019. Graphene: Efficient interactive set reconciliation
applied to blockchain propagation. InProceedings of the ACM Special Interest
Group on Data Communication. 303–317.
[11] Magnus Skjegstad and Torleiv Maseng. 2011. Low complexity set reconciliation
using Bloom filters. InProceedings of the 7th ACM ACM SIGACT/SIGMOBILE
International Workshop on Foundations of Mobile Computing. 33–41.
[12] Lei Yang, Yossi Gilad, and Mohammad Alizadeh. 2024. Practical rateless set
reconciliation. InProceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM 2024 Conference. 595–612.