SwarmSearch: Decentralized Search Engine
with Self-Funding Economy
Marcel Gregoriadis, Rowdy M Chotkan, Petru Neague, and Johan Pouwelse
Delft University of Technology, Delft, The Netherlands
{m.gregoriadis, r.m.chotkan-1, p.m.neague, j.a.pouwelse}@tudelft.nl
Abstract—Centralized search engines control what we see,
read, believe, and vote. Consequently, they raise concerns over
information control, censorship, and bias. Decentralized search
engines offer a remedy to this problem, but their adoption has
been hindered by their inferior quality and lack of a self-
sustaining economic framework. We present SwarmSearch, a
fully decentralized, AI-powered search engine with a self-funding
architecture. Our system is designed for deployment within the
decentralized file-sharing software Tribler. SwarmSearch inte-
grates volunteer-based with profit-driven mechanisms to foster an
implicit marketplace for resources. Employing the state-of-the-art
of AI-based retrieval and relevance ranking, we also aim to close
the quality gap between decentralized search and centralized
alternatives. Our system demonstrates high retrieval accuracy
while showing robustness in the presence of 50 % adversarial
nodes.
Index Terms—decentralized applications, peer-to-peer comput-
ing, search engines, information retrieval, artificial intelligence
I. INTRODUCTION
Decentralized search engines offer a remedy against the
risks posed by Big Tech’s centralized control over information.
The dominance of platforms like Google raise concerns around
censorship, privacy violations, and bias. Recently, the U.S.
court ruled that Google is a monopoly [1]. This position
enabled Google to shape access to information, introducing
censorship and algorithmic bias to search results [2]–[4]. Other
Big Tech firms faced similar scrutiny. Meta’s Cambridge An-
alytica scandal revealed mass misuse of user data for political
targeting [4], [5]. TikTok is currently under investigation by
the European Commission for alleged election interference via
its recommender system [6].
Decentralized search resolves the issues around centralized
control. In a system for decentralized search, documents are
distributed across a network of independent nodes (oragents).
Documents, in this context, may represent metadata on entities
such as torrents or websites. Each agent serves as an index over
the documents it knows about. At the same time, every agent
can issue queries to the network to find relevant documents
it doesnotknow about. Agents collaborate on tasks such
as routing and retrieval, facilitating a global search network
that scales and coordinates autonomously without centralized
control. However, while decentralized file-sharing systems like
BitTorrent and IPFS are flourishing, research on decentralized
This work has been submitted for possible publication. Copyright may
be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be
accessible. This work was funded by the Dutch National NWO/TKI Science
Grant BLOCK.2019.004.
search has mostly stalled. Despite decades of research on
decentralized search [7]–[13], a fully decentralized and viable
search engine has remained elusive. It has proven extremely
challenging to design a decentralized search engine capable of
matching the quality of centralized systems while also having
the financial architecture to sustain its service.
Existing decentralized search engines like YaCy [14] are
nowhere near the quality of centralized search engines, as the
gap between their outdated information retrieval techniques
and modern AI-driven algorithms keeps widening [15]. Many
decentralized initiatives compromise their vision by reintro-
ducing centralized elements to simplify technical hurdles [10],
[16]–[18]. IPFS-Search, for instance, depended on centralized
servers for crawling and indexing, but collapsed when funding
ran dry [16]. While centralized search engines sustain their
operation through data-driven business models, decentralized
systems face the challenge of having to motivate users to
perform operations on behalf of others. Efforts to motivate
user contributions have often relied on altruism or socio-
psychological rewards [19], [20]. When motivation is made
extrinsic, e.g., through crypto-economic incentives, this en-
courages low-quality contributions and spam [21]. Further-
more, users demonstrate a strong preference for zero-cost
options, which has led to the failure of micropayment models
in the past [22], [23]. The core challenge lies in designing
a decentralized financial architecture that recognizes and re-
wards high-quality contributions, but refrains from imposing
mandatory fees on its users.
We introduce SWARMSEARCH, a self-funding and fully
decentralized search engine powered by a decentralized net-
work of AI agents that collaboratively perform search tasks
and learn from each other. Using state-of-the-art models for
document retrieval and relevance ranking, we aim to close the
quality gap with centralized systems. Our self-funding mech-
anism, inspired by Bitcoin’s mining incentives and volunteer-
driven platforms like Linux and Wikipedia, uses a donation-
based system to ensure viability without mandatory fees.
By combining profit-driven incentives with volunteer-based
contributions, we create a financial architecture that refrains
from mandatory usage fees, yet facilitates the resource sharing
critical for delivering high-quality search results. Our financial
architecture, therefore, emerges as animplicitmarketplace for
resources.
This work is conducted in the context of a 20-year run-
ning research line on Internet-deployed decentralized systems.
arXiv:2505.07452v2  [cs.DC]  18 Sep 2025

TABLE I: Characteristics of Decentralized Search Engine Initiatives
Search Engine Deployment Self-funded Free-to-use Spam-resilient Self-learning Semantic Search No central comp.
YaCy (2004) [14]
MAAY (2006) [24]
Tribler (2006) [25]
PreSearch (2017) [18]
The Graph (2018) [26]
DeSearch (2021) [10]
SWARMSEARCH(2025)
With oursystems labbackground, we aim to bridge the gap
between theoretical designs and systems used by billions. With
SWARMSEARCH, we present the proto-design for deployment
within the Tribler peer-to-peer file-sharing application [25].
As such, we are committed to building a production-ready
system. We hope to leverage the AI revival of peer-to-peer
systems [27]–[29] to foster a cooperative global search net-
work, finally offering a competitive and viable alternative to
centralized systems.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec-
tion II formulates the problem. Section III describes related
work. Section IV specifies our system model. In Section V, we
detail the design of our search engine. Section VI introduces
a dataset of real-world search logs, which we use in our
experiments. In Section VII, we evaluate our system with
regards to retrieval accuracy and robustness against attacks.
We conclude in Section VIII.
II. PROBLEMDESCRIPTION
A decentralized search system with self-funding has never
been achieved. Numerous distributed systems with keyword
search have been launched in the past 25 years. The first
generation of peer-to-peer systems used exact syntax matching
of filenames, for instance, Gnutella [30]. The fully self-
organising approach of Gnutella with search broadcasting
proved to be unsustainable. These early systems lacked any
mechanism against freeriding [31]. There has been a consistent
failure in devising self-funded architectures. For instance, the
fully decentralized storage system IPFS lacks search. Central
servers are required to crawl this network and provide search.
Yet, no business model was found for self-funding of these
servers. IPFS-Search was forced to shut down after running
out of initial funding [16].
A comparison with state-of-the-art centralized search en-
gines such as Google and Bing highlights the widening gap
in quality between centralized and decentralized search. This
gap is driven by the ability of centralized systems to aggregate
massive amounts of user data, employ learning algorithms, and
leverage semantic matching to interpret and satisfy user intent.
Market leadership in targeted advertisement has lifted Google
to a USD 2 trillion market capitalization [32]. Such financial
resources allow Google and other centralized search engines
to operate the costly data centers that underpin their search
capabilities.
Bitcoin’s double-spending prevention is funded by Bitcoin
mining. The breakthrough of Bitcoin was the complete de-
centralization of a circular financial ecosystem. It proved that
money could exist without requiring banks, central banks, or
even governments. Bitcoin mining is the first example of a
self-funded network. The self-funding mechanisms pioneered
by the blockchain community are used for funding network
services (e.g., double-spending prevention). This approach
cannot easily be generalized to search. Users are unwilling
to pay for digital services, as in the form of micropayments,
when alternatives exist for free [22], [23]. The Freemium
business model was suggested informally as far back as 2008
to provide self-funding for peer-to-peer services [33]. The
Freemium model offers basic services free of charge, while
more advanced features must be paid for [34]. Unfortunately,
this promising self-funding model has never been realized in
real systems.
We conclude that the problem for decentralized search
lies in the absence of a system that satisfies the following
properties:
•It must beself-fundedin order to facilitate high-quality
contributions, whilst also beingspam-resilient.
•At the same time, the service must befree-to-use.
•In order to compete with centralized alternatives, it must
be capable ofsemantic searchand incorporateself-
learningbehavior in order to adapt to user contexts.
III. RELATEDWORK
We find that most research on decentralized search is rooted
in the peer-to-peer (P2P) era of the early 2000s [7], [11],
[35], after which interest in the field has notably waned. The
Web3 movement of recent years has caused a little revival of
the field [9], [10], [12]. A recent survey by Keizer et al. [8]
revealed, however, that no current system adequately addresses
these issues in a comprehensive manner. They conclude that
even though numerous projects for decentralized search have
been proposed, they generally focus on narrow aspects of
the problem. Consequently, in practice, users still rely on
centralized indices to locate files within decentralized storage
networks, as exemplified by IPFS-Search [16].
Some researchers have proposed to decentralize IPFS-
Search by maintaining the extracted metadata on the DHT [9],
[12], [36], [37]. The initial retrieval and ranking are typi-
cally performed based on exact keyword matching and term-

Ranker
User
Network
Query
Documents
Ranked
documents
Ranker
User
Database
Click
Training
data
Network
Training
data
User Network
Amount
Utility records
SEARCH CLICK DONATE
1
2
3
2
4
5
Fig. 1: Overview of core user actions and architecture of SwarmSearch.
based metrics; hence, they rely on exact term matches. Other
researchers proposed distributing content based on locality-
sensitive hashing (LSH), thereby supporting syntactic similar-
ity search [37], [38], but notsemanticsimilarity search. To
the best of our knowledge, De-DSI [28] is the first work to
leverage language models to enable semantic search. Recently,
DART [27] proposed decentralized relevance ranking based on
deep learning. Feedback-driven algorithms like De-DSI and
DART allow the search engine to adapt to user preferences
and opinion drift. MAAY [24] and G-Rank [39] employ fixed
heuristics to aggregate user data for collaborative filtering.
Research on decentralized search has so far ignored the
problem of motivating user contributions, typically assuming
both honest and altruistic peers. YaCy [14] and the search
in Tribler [25] are examples of deployed decentralized search
engines that rely on these assumptions. The Graph [26] is
a decentralized search engine specifically for data on the
blockchain. While The Graph is spam-resistant, its financial
architecture requires users to pay for each query they submit.
PreSearch [18], on the other hand, is a project that is both
self-funded and free-to-use. It rewards both usage and service,
and is funded by advertising expenditures. However, PreSearch
relies on a central gateway server for functions like user
anonymization and reputation [40].
In Table I, we show a list of decentralized search engine
initiatives, both from industry and academia, and their charac-
teristics. Specifically, we show how they satisfy the properties
outlined in Section II.
IV. SYSTEMMODEL
Our self-funded search system mixes elements from
volunteer-based computing with profit-driven mining known
from the Bitcoin world. By doing so, we aim to replicate
the emergent effect from initiatives such as Linux, Wikipedia,
BitTorrent, Kickstarter, and Bitcoin. In this section, we present
our system model. The termsuser,agent, andnodeare used
interchangeably throughout this paper. While we usenodeto
denote a network entity,userfor an initiator of an action, and
agentfor a responder, these distinctions are purely contextual–
there are no fixed roles in the system.
Our system considers a network of nodes, which form
a connected graph. Assuming the graph remains connected,
nodes may join or leave the network at any time. We assume
nodes engage in decentralized searches for websites, i.e.,
searching relevant URLs for a given query. We illustrate the
system model through three core user actions (see Figure 1):
1)Search:A user sends a query to a sample of agents, each
of which responds with a set of matching documents.
Locally, the documents are aggregated and ranked before
being presented to the user.
2)Click:After being presented with a list of search results,
the user performs aclickon one of the results. Clicklogs
are collected in a local database and asynchronously
exchanged with other peers.
3)Donate:At any point, a user can donate an arbitrary
amount of Bitcoin. The amount is distributed among
peers in proportion to theutilityof their past contri-
butions to the user.
Our system pays agents for providing useful work. Instead
of imposing usage fees, however, rewards are funded through
donations made by altruistic users. Users in our system provide
utilityto others via two activities: document retrieval and
exchange of training data (in the form ofclicklogs). Each user
maintainsutility scoresthat reflect the utility received from
other peers. Donations (in the form of Bitcoin) are distributed
based on locally maintained utility records. This creates an
implicit marketplace for resources. Users who actively donate
to the system will attract more agents who are willing to
provide utility to them, even when they do not contribute
resources themselves. We expect this to lead to the emergence
of high-tier and low-tier service levels that reflect the user’s
conversion rate with the system. Users who do not choose to
donate can use the search engine for free while monetizing
their resources. Importantly, the system remains viable even if
only a small fraction chooses to donate.
V. DESIGN OFSWARMSEARCH
We introduce SWARMSEARCH, the first self-funded decen-
tralized search engine. Our search engine is powered by a self-
learning network of autonomous AI agents that collaboratively
perform search tasks and exchange training data. With our
novel financial architecture, we create an implicit marketplace
for resources, while simultaneously supporting a permission-
less and free-to-use ecosystem. This section describes the
comprehensive design of our search engine through three key
user interactions:search,click, anddonate.

A. Decentralized Search
Our search strategy follows the two-stage approach of
retrieve-then-rankcommon in modern search engines [41]–
[44]. Accordingly, the retrieval of documents and the subse-
quent ranking of retrieved documents represent two distinct
components. Every user operates a search engine. Every user
can answer queries. Certain users receive donations from their
fans, as they operate reliably and offer a high quality of service
(in the form of retrieved documents or exchanged training
data).
Generative Retrieval:Our system adopts De-DSI [28], a
recently proposed design for decentralized semantic search.
The authors of De-DSI showed how small language models
can be used to index a large number of documents whilst
maintaining high retrieval accuracy. Concretely, they proposed
a system in which AI agents train local encoder-decoder
transformer models on query-docid pairs and retrieve matching
docids on request (docidsrefer todocument identifiersand
can represent, for instance, URLs). This paradigm is known
asgenerative retrieval, and has recently gained popularity in
the field of information retrieval [45], [46].
The search is initiated by a user submitting a query (e.g.,
“ubuntu download”). The user then solicits matching docu-
ments from multiple agents in the network. Once a query is
received by an agent, it performs abeam searchon its model.
The model produces a fixed-sized set of (e.g., 5 or 10) docids
di that most likely match the query, along with associated logit
scoress i, forming beams in the form(d i,si). This result set,
subsequently, is sent back to the querying user, who performs a
beam search on their own model as well. The scoress i within
each set of beams are normalized using the softmax function.
Further, all beams are aggregated into a single set of docid
candidates, where the scores of equal docids are summed.
This procedure approximates the intractable task of fully
enumerating the distribution of all possible docid generations.
The underlying assumption is that, across an ensemble of
similarly trained models, relevant documents will consistently
appear among the top candidates from multiple models, even if
their exact ranking varies slightly. Consequently, aggregating
predictions from multiple models via this ensemble approach
yields superior retrieval accuracy compared to relying on a
single model. Finally, the top-kdocids with the highest scores
are selected from this initial retrieval phase to undergo further
processing in the re-ranking stage.
Relevance Ranking:After a set of matching documents has
been retrieved, the next stage involves refining the ranking
of these documents. This stage is crucial as it evaluates
documents beyond their semantic similarity with the query.
Relevance ranking, moreover, has the ability to account for
statistical features that indicate, for instance, the popularity of
a document or the alignment with user-specific personalization
signals. To this end, our system adopts DART [27], a decen-
tralized adoption of learning-to-rank [47], [48]. In DART, each
peer trains a local modelR:X7→Yto predict relevance
Yfor a set of documentsX. The individual documents are
represented as feature vectorsx i ∈R f , which encode the
relationship between the query and the document. The output
of the model maps eachx i ∈Xto a scorey i ∈[0,1],
indicating relevance relative to other documents in the result
list. The ranking model is very lightweight, allowing for fast
inference even on low-end hardware. Furthermore, due to
the abstract nature of the feature vectors, DART only needs
a few data points in order to generalize to unseen queries
and unseen documents. This allows relevance ranking to be
executedoffline, avoiding networking latency.
B. Click-based Feedback
When a user selects a document from a search result list,
we refer to it as aclick. Clicks are central to our system,
as they present the sole signal driving our search engine’s
training. We interpret clicks as the user deeming a specific
documentrelevantw.r.t. the query. Also, we interpret every
other document in the search result list as being deemednon-
relevantw.r.t. the query. Theseclicklogsserve as feedback
to both the retrieval and the ranking model of our search
engine, and are further disseminated in the network. The
models, therefore, continuously train on more and updated
data, enabling them to adapt and improve over time.
Spam Prevention:Opening up the user’s local model to the
influence of strange peers exposes the model to low-quality
training data as well as adversarial attacks. The incentive
structure of our system exacerbates this issue, as it encourages
the cheap generation of fake data (i.e., spam), in exchange for
utility tokens. It is, therefore, paramount to assess the quality
of the training data offered by another user.
Data valuation is an active topic in the field of federated and
decentralized data markets [49]–[53]. Its goal is to quantify the
contribution of training examples to the model’s performance.
Among existing techniques, Data Shapley [53] remains the
most widely adopted. According to Ghorbani et al., a princi-
pled and equitable approach to the valuation for any dataset
Di amongntotal datasets must approximate
ϕi =
X
S⊆D\D i
V(S∪D i)−V(S) n−1
|S|
 .(1)
Here,V(D)denotes the performance of the model trained
on datasetD. In words, this formula measures the marginal
contribution of datasetD i by userias part of the full dataset
Don which the model is trained on. In practice, Equation (1)
is approximated using methods like Monte Carlo [53], [54].
Our system adopts Data Shapley to assign value to the
datasets offered by other peers. Upon receivingndatasets from
ndistinct peers, the user performs a Monte Carlo simulation
to estimate the marginal contribution of each dataset to the
performance of their own model. The user’s historical clicks
serve as the ground truth for evaluation.
C. Decentralized Donations
To support a self-sustaining ecosystem without fees or
centralized infrastructure, our system introduces a decentral-
ized donation mechanism. Rather than paying per-query, users

can voluntarily donate tokens, such as Bitcoin or stable-
coins, to support the search network. These donations are
then distributed among peers based on their perceived utility,
captured through a personalized and Sybil-tolerant 1 reputation
mechanism known as MeritRank [55].
Each node maintains a local ledger of feedback collected
from its own search and training interactions. This feedback
encompasses observed document relevance, ranking accuracy,
and the value of shared training data. Over time, users build
subjective views of the network, forming a weighted feedback
graph. In this graph, edges represent feedback, and their
weights reflect the perceived value of past contributions from
peer nodes.
To determine how to distribute a donation, a user calculates
utility scores based on their local feedback graph. MeritRank is
a decentralized reputation algorithm that addresses the three-
way tradeoff between Sybil resistance, generalizability, and
trustlessness. It avoids reliance on a central scoring oracle or
a fixed set of validators. Instead, it aggregates feedback locally
while limiting the influence of malicious nodes through three
decay functions:
•Transitivity decay penalizes contributions from distant
nodes in the feedback graph.
•Connectivity decay down-weights contributions from
sparsely connected or weakly integrated nodes.
•Epoch decay discounts older feedback to maintain rele-
vance.
The resulting scores form a subjective reputation vector over
other nodes. While a simple donation scheme could distribute
funds proportionally to these scores, we adopt a slightly
more sophisticated mechanism to balance meritocracy with
stochastic fairness. Specifically, we apply aweighted random
sampling strategy, ensuring that smaller or newer contributors
maintain a non-zero probability of being rewarded, while high-
ranking nodes remain strongly favored.
1)Weighting.Each nodejis assigned a weight based on
their local MeritRank scoreR j as follows:
Wj = (Rj +ϵ)α
Here,ϵ >0prevents zero-probability for low-ranked
nodes, andα≥1controls the sharpness of merit
preference.
2)Sampling.LetSdenote the set of nodes with non-
zero reputation scoresR j in the donor’s local view—
i.e., those who have contributed utility either directly or
indirectly through the feedback graph. From this set, the
donor selects a subset ofNrecipients using weighted
random sampling without replacement, where each node
jis chosen with probability:
Pj = WjP
k∈SWk
3)Allocation.LetS ′ ⊆Sbe the set ofNrecipients
selected during the sampling step. Given a total donation
1A Sybil attack is when one entity creates many fake identities to gain
unfair influence in a system.
amountD, the funds are split among the sampled nodes
proportionally:
Aj =D· WjP
k∈S ′Wk
forj∈S ′
4)Execution.The donor then publishes a signed payout
message listing all recipients and assigned valuesA j.
Transfers are settled on the underlying payment layer.
This approach mirrors personalized funding models from
systems like SourceCred [56] and Gitcoin [57], but removes
reliance on global state or central coordination. By introduc-
ing a stochastic selection process, we ensure that while top
contributors are rewarded more frequently, smaller or less con-
nected nodes are not excluded outright. This mitigates long-
term monopolization and encourages continued participation
across the network.
Importantly, this donation mechanism remains Sybil-
tolerant, meaning that malicious actors cannot amplify their
rewards by creating fake identities. Since MeritRank uses de-
cay to bound transitive influence and isolates poorly connected
components, Sybil regions yield diminishing returns. Agents
are rewarded for genuine utility, not presence.
Through this design, we establish a decentralized funding
mechanism that enables long-term sustainability without re-
quiring fees or trusted intermediaries. Even if only a small
subset of users choose to donate, their donations are targeted
with high precision, rewarding those agents that actually
contributed value.
VI. DATASET
In 2006, AOL released a dataset of query logs from users of
their web search engine [58]. To this date, it remains the only
publicly available dataset that combines user mappings, raw
search queries, and the URL of the clicked document [59], all
of which are necessary for the experimental evaluation of our
search engine. More recently, MacAvaney et al. [60] success-
fully restored the contents of the majority of documents. By
leveraging the Internet Archive 2, their approach ensured that
the recovered content approximated the state of the documents
at the time of the user query. Furthermore, they parsed the
HTML, extracting title and body as plain text.
In addition, the training of our ranking model requires the
non-clicked documents given a query, i.e., the list of displayed
search results given a search query. This data is missing
from the dataset and cannot be restored to its original form.
To address this limitation, we generate candidate document
sets based on the methodology proposed by Guo et al. [61].
Specifically, given each query, we rank the entire set of
documents based on the BM25 score of the document titles.
BM25 is a standard keyword-based ranking function used in
information retrieval [62], [63]. We then apply a window of
size 10 on the ranked list with the clicked document in the
center. That is, if the clicked document is ranked at position
20 in the BM25-ordered list, we consider the documents from
2https://archive.org/

TABLE II: Excerpt of Query Logs From Our Dataset
User ID Time Query Doc ID Candidate Doc IDs
3613173 2006-03-01 00:01:04 batman signal images b093fab50ffa [8bf002ac9afd, 07098e6e8908, a411c4f4616e, f60...
1270972 2006-03-01 00:01:10 head hunters cba56bcc7234 [718c5195a5d4, 9cdcd810b216, a7fb5708b128, a9e...
811283 2006-03-01 00:01:16 new jersey inside water parks 44792c7f06a7 [4c080044d7d0, c72c4ea94b4d, 95168237c7ad, a04...
2648672 2006-03-01 00:01:17 jamie farr 545bf737bf10 [7dafa223564f, fed9f2a111eb, 51b70ee252d5, dda...
605089 2006-03-01 00:01:18 dachshunds for sale in conroe texas ccc0c7d8dce5 [a93366fdaa88, 5162ff424e92, bc596fea9ed1, 0f5...
positions 15–24 the result candidates for the given query. If
the position of the clicked document is close to the bounds
of the list, we extend the selection accordingly so that we
always return 10 candidate documents. In Table II, we show
an excerpt of our datasets, consisting of query logs, the clicked
document (“Doc ID”), as well as the list of candidates that we
compiled.
Finally, we apply the following filters. We removed query
logs that were not associated with a clicked document (as
the original dataset also contained queries with no further
user feedback). Furthermore, we removed duplicate (User ID,
Query) pairs, whereby we only kept the most recent record
based on its timestamp.
VII. EXPERIMENTS
We established that a decentralized search engine needs to
deliver high-quality results and, at the same time, be resistant
to attacks, in order to be able to compete with centralized
alternatives. In this section, we demonstrate how our system
meets both requirements throughout three experiments based
on the dataset presented in Section VI. The first experiment
demonstrates the accuracy of document retrieval under non-
adversarial conditions, as well as its scalability w.r.t the num-
ber of documents. In the second experiment, we demonstrate
the effectiveness of the Data Shapley algorithm in mitigating
the impact of spam. Our final experiment measures the re-
silience of our financial architecture against Sybil attacks. We
release our dataset and experimental code as open-source 3.
A. Retrieval Accuracy
Every agent operates a transformer model for retrieval. The
retrieval accuracy of a single model is constrained by its
capacity to recall a large number of documents. Collectively,
however, they form a network of retrieval engines that can
scale to any number of documents.
In this experiment, we show the retrieval accuracy of a
single retrieval model given a corpus of 100, 1000, and
5000 documents. As a basis for this experiment, we fine-
tune a T5-base model [64], which is a popular pre-trained
language model. With 220 million parameters, we consider its
size reasonable for deployment on commodity hardware. We
randomly sample 100, 1000, and 5000 documents from our
dataset. For each document, we collect all associated queries
in chronological order and partition them into training and test
sets using a 90:10 split. To support this split, we only included
documents with at least 10 associated queries. Importantly,
3https://github.com/mg98/swarmsearch
we do not remove query duplicates across the splits. That
is, we allow for the same query-docid pair to appear in both
the training and test set. This is atypical when evaluating the
quality of machine learning models. However, we intend to
capture realistic usage patterns and real-world settings. That
is, if there is a high likelihood for a query in the test set,
this likelihood should also be reflected for its inclusion in the
training set (i.e., the data it has already seen and trained on).
Finally, we fine-tune a T5-base model on the collection of
training splits of all documents in the current experiment (i.e.,
the sample of either 100, 1000, or 5000). The training set itself
is shuffled and deduplicated, to avoid overfitting. Lastly, we
evaluate on the collection of test splits of all documents. To
this end, we only consider matches on the top-1 beam.
In Figure 2, we show the accuracy of this experiment as it
converges over multiple epochs. As the data volume differs
between experiments on 100, 1000, and 5000 documents,
we normalize the x-axis byhours of trainingrather than by
epochs. We ran the experiments for 50 hours, but truncated the
plot at the 10 hour-mark, where we observed convergence. As
the figure reveals, with 100 documents, the retrieval accuracy
is nearly perfect, considering that users often choose different
documents for the same query, and therefore an accuracy close
to100 %is unattainable. With larger corpora of documents,
we can see the model’s performance degrading–at least in top-
1 retrieval. This does not inherently pose a problem, as the
correct document may still appear in a top-5 or top-10 beam
search before its final ranking position is determined by the
querying user’s ranking model.
B. Spam Prevention
With data sharing being lucrative, it creates an incentive
for users to generate and disseminate inauthentic data for
profit. Accordingly, we introduced spam prevention measures
in Section V-B. In this experiment, we demonstrate their
effectiveness, exemplified by the accuracy of the ranking
model, as measured byMean Reciprocal Rank (MRR). MRR
is a standard metric for assessing ranking quality [65], [66].
Given a ranked list of search results, we compute the reciprocal
rank1/r, whereris the position of the item the userclicks.
Averaging this measure across multiple queries yields the
MRR. Recall that our dataset guarantees exactly 10 search
results containing 1 relevant item for each query. That is, the
lowest possible MRR in this setting is 1
10, whereas a random
ranking strategy would yield an expected MRR of 1
5.5≈0.18.
For our experiment, we simulate users connected to 10
randomly sampled users from our dataset; in the following

0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0
Hours of T raining
Accuracy
100 docs 1000 docs 5000 docs
Fig. 2: Top-1 document retrieval accuracy of a single model
evaluated on a test set of queries. Each data point represents
one epoch of training. The x-axis is truncated where conver-
gence was observed across all lines.
referred to asneighbors. Preliminary experiments revealed
converged performance with this number of neighbors. We
only consider users with at least three clicklogs. The clicklogs
of a user constitute a user’spersonal dataset. First, we partition
each user’s personal dataset into training, validation, and test
sets using a 1:1:1 ratio. This split ratio was chosen to maximize
the number of users meeting the minimum data threshold.
Local-only:On this basis, we train and evaluate the ranking
model with “local-only” data. We observe an MRR of 0.38
when users train exclusively on local training data.
Data Sharing:Ranking accuracy with local-only data is
low, as training data is scarce. In the next step, we fuse the
personal datasets of the user’s neighbors with the user’s local
training data. That is, we augment the training split with the
training data from all 10 neighbors, while retaining the original
validation and test sets. On average, in this setting, users yield
an MRR of 0.67. That is, users on average find the relevant
item (as indicated by their clicks) ranked at position 1 or 2.
Adversarial Data Sharing:Next, we analyze the effects
of adversarial nodes on the ranking performance. To this
end, we apply label flipping ton∈[0,10]out of the 10
datasets presented to a user, essentially simulating a poisoning
attack [67], [68]. In Figure 3, we show the performance
degradation under an increasing share of adversarial nodes
n/10. We show three modes of operation:
•Naive:Users assume all data is valuable and incorporate
every dataset into training without scrutiny.
•With Defense:Users approximate the Shapley valueϕ i
of each dataset using a Monte Carlo simulation, with
a permutation sample size of 100, and only incorporate
datasets whereϕ i >0.
•Oracle:For reference, we report an oracle baseline that
excludes any poisoned datasets.
As expected, as soon as we introduce adversarial nodes
(n >0), the MRR begins to decline. At up to60 %with the
naive strategy and80 %with defense, the ranking performance
still exceeds performance under local-only training. Notably,
our defense mechanism tolerates up to50 %adversarial nodes
without any performance degradation; beyond this thresh-
old, performance declines more rapidly. As the amount of
“beneficial” data diminishes, we would expect the ranking
accuracy converging to local-only performance. However, at
90 %, it drops below. We attribute this to the Shapley-value
approximation error, which we expect could be reduced by
employing larger sample sizes [69], [70] or more efficient
algorithms [54], [71], [72].
Local-only
Random0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0 25 50 75 100
Adversarial Nodes in Network (%)
MRR
Naive With Defense Oracle
Fig. 3: Ranking accuracy under increasing share of malicious
agents performing poisoning attacks.
C. Resilience Against Sybil Attacks
To evaluate the robustness of our decentralized donation
mechanism, we simulate a series of Sybil attack scenarios and
measure the percentage of total donations captured by mali-
cious nodes as their proportion of the network increases. Our
aim is to test the mechanism’s ability to uphold meritocratic
allocation while resisting manipulation.
We simulate a search network of 1000 user nodes, modeled
after behavioral patterns in our dataset, where a varying
fraction (0–100 %) is controlled by a Sybil adversary. Hon-
est nodes receive reputation scores sampled from our real-
world dataset, containing anonymized records of user search
activity, including queries, document candidates, and clicks.
Each unique “User ID” is treated as a user node, and reputa-
tion scores are computed based on total click activity under
the assumption that consistent interaction with search results
correlates with meaningful participation in the system. Click
counts are normalized to the range[0,1], yielding a continuous
reputation distribution that reflects relative contribution levels
across the user population. To simulate donations, each round
begins with a designated donor node allocating a fixed amount
across a subset of peers using the weighted lottery-based
mechanism described in Section V-C. Sybil nodes are assigned
low or manipulated reputation scores depending on the sce-
nario, either by sampling from the lower tail of the honest
distribution or by injecting dense feedback among themselves.

0
25
50
75
100
0 25 50 75 100
Sybil Nodes in Network (%)
Donations Captured by Sybils (%)
Base
No smoothing
Aggressive weighting
Dense Sybils
Random
Fig. 4: Donation captured by Sybil nodes under different attack
and configuration scenarios.
For each configuration, we simulate multiple donation rounds
and report the average donation share received by Sybil nodes.
Figure 4 presents the results across five scenarios:
•Base:Honest reputations are sampled from our dataset,
withα= 0.5andϵ= 0.01. Sybils have uniformly low
utility scores. This represents a balanced system with a
mild preference for high-reputation nodes and a small
smoothing factor, allowing low-ranked nodes a chance.
•No smoothing:The same setup as the base case, butϵ=
0. This eliminates stochastic inclusion of low-reputation
nodes. As expected, Sybil capture drops sharply—
demonstrating the protective role of hard cutoffs—but
also implies reduced robustness to newcomers.
•Aggressive weighting:Here,α= 1.5increases the
reward skew toward top-ranked nodes. Honest nodes
dominate allocation at low Sybil rates. Under higher Sybil
concentrations, as attacker nodes inflate utility scores
within isolated clusters, the system becomes vulnerable.
•Dense Sybils:A more realistic attack model in which
Sybils assign feedback to each other and maintain mod-
erate reputations. This scenario illustrates that when at-
tacker nodes escape the lowest ranks, capture rates rise
significantly, underscoring the importance of connectivity
and decay in MeritRank to limit transitive influence.
•Random:Honest reputations are drawn from a uniform
distribution rather than empirical data. This scenario
serves as a sanity check and exhibits similar trends to
the base case, albeit with slightly higher variance in Sybil
capture.
Together, these experiments highlight that while the lottery-
based mechanism remains resilient under various configura-
tions, parameters such asϵandαintroduce trade-offs between
openness, fairness, and robustness. In particular, mechanisms
that rely solely on reputation without smoothing can fully
exclude attackers but risk excluding legitimate newcomers,
while overly flat weighting can make the system vulnerable
to low-effort Sybil strategies.
VIII. CONCLUSION
Decentralization of search has been an open problem for
more than 25 years. We believe that our financial architec-
ture provides the previously missing foundation that enables
the adoption of effective search algorithms, especially those
leveraging artificial intelligence. With SWARMSEARCH, we
demonstrated how state-of-the-art search can be supported by
an agent-to-agent economy without centralized coordination.
Through extensive experiments, we also validated its robust-
ness to spam and Sybil attacks, showing the viability of a
permissionless and self-sustaining search infrastructure.
In future work, we want to focus on the scalability of
our system alongside privacy-preserving techniques. We are
working towards the deployment of our search engine within
the peer-to-peer file-sharing software Tribler. Through our
continuous contributions, we hope that we can soon achieve
a decentralized search engine able to rival centralized alterna-
tives.
REFERENCES
[1] U.S. Department of Justice, “Justice department sues google for
monopolizing digital advertising technologies,” 2023, accessed:
2024-09-10. [Online]. Available: https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-
department-sues-google-monopolizing-digital-advertising-technologies
[2] R. Epstein, “The new censorship,”US News, vol. 22, 2016.
[3] O. Solon and S. Levin, “How google’s search algorithm spreads false
information with a rightwing bias,”The Guardian, vol. 16, 2016.
[4] F. Stjernfelt, A. M. Lauritzen, F. Stjernfelt, and A. M. Lauritzen,
“Facebook and google as offices of censorship,”Your post has been
removed: tech giants and freedom of speech, pp. 139–172, 2020.
[5] J. Hinds, E. J. Williams, and A. N. Joinson, ““it wouldn’t happen to me”:
Privacy concerns and perspectives following the cambridge analytica
scandal,”International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, vol. 143,
p. 102498, 2020.
[6] E. Commission, “Commission opens formal proceedings against tiktok
on election risks under the digital services act,” Press release IP/24/6487.
Available from https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/
ip 24 6487, December 2024.
[7] Y . Chawathe, S. Ratnasamy, L. Breslau, N. Lanham, and S. Shenker,
“Making gnutella-like p2p systems scalable,” inProceedings of the 2003
conference on Applications, technologies, architectures, and protocols
for computer communications, 2003, pp. 407–418.
[8] N. Keizer, O. Ascigil, M. Kr ´ol, D. Kutscher, and G. Pavlou, “A survey
on content retrieval on the decentralised web,”ACM Computing Surveys,
vol. 56, no. 8, pp. 1–39, 2024.
[9] N. Khudhur and S. Fujita, “Siva-the ipfs search engine,” in2019 Seventh
International Symposium on Computing and Networking (CANDAR).
IEEE, 2019, pp. 150–156.
[10] M. Li, J. Zhu, T. Zhang, C. Tan, Y . Xia, S. Angel, and H. Chen, “Bring-
ing decentralized search to decentralized services,” in15th{USENIX}
Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation ({OSDI}
21), 2021, pp. 331–347.
[11] B. T. Loo, R. Huebsch, I. Stoica, and J. M. Hellerstein, “The case for
a hybrid p2p search infrastructure,” inPeer-to-Peer Systems III: Third
International Workshop, IPTPS 2004, La Jolla, CA, USA, February 26-
27, 2004, Revised Selected Papers 3. Springer, 2005, pp. 141–150.
[12] F. Wang and Y . Wu, “Keyword search technology in content addressable
storage system,” in2020 IEEE 22nd Intl. Conference on High Perfor-
mance Computing and Communications; IEEE 18th Intl. Conference on
Smart City; IEEE 6th Intl. Conference on Data Science and Systems
(HPCC/SmartCity/DSS). IEEE, 2020, pp. 728–735.
[13] T. Lu, S. Sinha, and A. Sudan, “Panache: A scalable distributed index
for keyword search,” Citeseer, Tech. Rep., 2002.
[14] M. Herrmann, K.-C. Ning, C. Diaz, and B. Preneel, “Description of
the yacy distributed web search engine,”Technicla report. KU Leuven
ESAT/COSIC, iMinds, 2014.

[15] K. D. Onal, Y . Zhang, I. S. Altingovde, M. M. Rahman, P. Karagoz,
A. Braylan, B. Dang, H.-L. Chang, H. Kim, Q. McNamaraet al.,
“Neural information retrieval: At the end of the early years,”Information
Retrieval Journal, vol. 21, pp. 111–182, 2018.
[16] F. Emans, “Bump in the road — web.archive.org,”
https://web.archive.org/web/20240422190159/https://blog.ipfs-
search.com/bump-in-the-road/, 2023, [Accessed 10-09-2024].
[17] J. Poort, J. Leenheer, J. van der Ham, and C. Dumitru, “Baywatch: Two
approaches to measure the effects of blocking access to the pirate bay,”
Telecommunications Policy, vol. 38, no. 4, pp. 383–392, 2014.
[18] “Presearch — presearch.com,” https://presearch.com/, [Accessed 16-08-
2024].
[19] X. Wei, W. Chen, and K. Zhu, “Motivating user contributions in online
knowledge communities: virtual rewards and reputation,” in2015 48th
Hawaii Intl. Conf. on System Sciences. IEEE, 2015, pp. 3760–3769.
[20] P. B. Goes, C. Guo, and M. Lin, “Do incentive hierarchies induce
user effort? evidence from an online knowledge exchange,”Information
Systems Research, vol. 27, no. 3, pp. 497–516, 2016.
[21] D. Qiao, S.-Y . Lee, A. B. Whinston, and Q. Wei, “Mitigating the adverse
effect of monetary incentives on voluntary contributions online,”Journal
of Management Information Systems, vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 82–107, 2021.
[22] E. C. Bank,A big future for small payments? – Micropayments and their
impact on the payment ecosystem. European Central Bank, 2023.
[23] E. Solaiman and J. Robins, “The internet of value: Integrating blockchain
and lightning network micropayments for knowledge markets,”arXiv
preprint arXiv:2412.19384, 2024.
[24] F. D. Ngoc, J. Keller, and G. Simon, “Maay: a decentralized personalized
search system,” inInternational Symposium on Applications and the
Internet (SAINT’06). IEEE, 2006, pp. 8–pp.
[25] J. A. Pouwelse, P. Garbacki, J. Wang, A. Bakker, J. Yang, A. Iosup, D. H.
Epema, M. Reinders, M. R. Van Steen, and H. J. Sips, “Tribler: a social-
based peer-to-peer system,”Concurrency and computation: Practice and
experience, vol. 20, no. 2, pp. 127–138, 2008.
[26] B. Ramirez, “The graph network in depth - part 1,” Oct 2019. [Online].
Available: https://thegraph.com/blog/the-graph-network-in-depth-part-1
[27] M. Gregoriadis, Q. Stokkink, and J. Pouwelse, “Decentralized adaptive
ranking using transformers,” inProceedings of the 5th Workshop on
Machine Learning and Systems, 2025, pp. 12–18.
[28] P. Neague, M. Gregoriadis, and J. Pouwelse, “De-dsi: Decentralised
differentiable search index,” inProceedings of the 4th Workshop on
Machine Learning and Systems, 2024, pp. 134–143.
[29] P. Neague, Q. Stokkink, N. Goel, and J. Pouwelse, “Semantica: Decen-
tralized search using a llm-guided semantic tree overlay,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.10151, 2025.
[30] M. Ripeanu, “Peer-to-peer architecture case study: Gnutella network,”
inProceedings first international conference on peer-to-peer computing.
IEEE, 2001, pp. 99–100.
[31] E. Adar and B. A. Huberman, “Free riding on gnutella,”First
Monday, vol. 5, no. 10, Oct. 2000. [Online]. Available: https:
//firstmonday.org/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/792
[32] U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, “Form 10-K:
Annual report for Alphabet Inc.” 2024, Accessed: 2025-05-04.
[Online]. Available: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1652044/
000165204425000014/goog-20241231.htm
[33] P. Froberg, “Freemium, a business model for P2P — P2P Foundation
— blog.p2pfoundation.net,” https://blog.p2pfoundation.net/freemium-a-
business-model-for-p2p/2008/12/08, 2008, [Accessed 04-05-2025].
[34] J. Rietveld, “Creating and capturing value from freemium business mod-
els: A demand-side perspective,”Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal,
vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 171–193, 2018.
[35] B. Gassend, T. M. Gil, and B. Song, “Dinx: A decentralized search
engine,” 2001.
[36] L. Zhu, C. Xiao, and X. Gong, “Keyword search in decentralized storage
systems,”Electronics, vol. 9, no. 12, p. 2041, 2020.
[37] N. V . Keizer, O. Ascigil, M. Kr´ol, and G. Pavlou, “Ditto: Towards decen-
tralised similarity search for web3 services,” in2023 IEEE International
Conference on Decentralized Applications and Infrastructures (DAPPS).
IEEE, 2023, pp. 66–75.
[38] S. Fujita, “Similarity search in interplanetary file system with the aid
of locality sensitive hash,”IEICE TRANSACTIONS on Information and
Systems, vol. 104, no. 10, pp. 1616–1623, 2021.
[39] A. Gold and J. Pouwelse, “G-rank: Unsupervised continuous learn-
to-rank for edge devices in a p2p network,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2301.12530, 2023.
[40] “What is a Node? — Presearch Docs — docs.presearch.io,” https://docs.
presearch.io/nodes/overview, [Accessed 04-05-2025].
[41] R. Nogueira and K. Cho, “Passage re-ranking with bert,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:1901.04085, 2019.
[42] W. X. Zhao, J. Liu, R. Ren, and J.-R. Wen, “Dense text retrieval
based on pretrained language models: A survey,”ACM Transactions
on Information Systems, vol. 42, no. 4, pp. 1–60, 2024.
[43] A. Yates, R. Nogueira, and J. Lin, “Pretrained transformers for text rank-
ing: Bert and beyond,” inProceedings of the 14th ACM International
Conference on web search and data mining, 2021, pp. 1154–1156.
[44] B. Paliwal, D. Saini, M. Dhawan, S. Asokan, N. Natarajan, S. Aggar-
wal, P. Malhotra, J. Jiao, and M. Varma, “Cross-jem: Accurate and
efficient cross-encoders for short-text ranking tasks,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.09795, 2024.
[45] Y . Tay, V . Tran, M. Dehghani, J. Ni, D. Bahri, H. Mehta, Z. Qin, K. Hui,
Z. Zhao, J. Guptaet al., “Transformer memory as a differentiable search
index,”Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 35, pp.
21 831–21 843, 2022.
[46] X. Li, J. Jin, Y . Zhou, Y . Zhang, P. Zhang, Y . Zhu, and Z. Dou, “From
matching to generation: A survey on generative information retrieval,”
ACM Transactions on Information Systems, 2024.
[47] Z. Cao, T. Qin, T.-Y . Liu, M.-F. Tsai, and H. Li, “Learning to rank:
from pairwise approach to listwise approach,” inProceedings of the
24th international conference on Machine learning, 2007, pp. 129–136.
[48] T.-Y . Liuet al., “Learning to rank for information retrieval,”Foundations
and Trends® in Information Retrieval, vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 225–331, 2009.
[49] Z. Hammoudeh and D. Lowd, “Training data influence analysis and
estimation: A survey,”Machine Learning, vol. 113, no. 5, pp. 2351–
2403, 2024.
[50] C. Lu, M. M. Amiri, and R. Raskar, “Data measurements for decentral-
ized data markets,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.04257, 2024.
[51] C. Lu, B. Huang, S. P. Karimireddy, P. Vepakomma, M. Jordan, and
R. Raskar, “Data acquisition via experimental design for data mar-
kets,”Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 37, pp.
118 086–118 118, 2024.
[52] T. Wang, J. Rausch, C. Zhang, R. Jia, and D. Song, “A principled
approach to data valuation for federated learning,”Federated Learning:
Privacy and Incentive, pp. 153–167, 2020.
[53] A. Ghorbani and J. Zou, “Data shapley: Equitable valuation of data
for machine learning,” inInternational conference on machine learning.
PMLR, 2019, pp. 2242–2251.
[54] Y . Kwon and J. Zou, “Beta shapley: a unified and noise-reduced
data valuation framework for machine learning,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2110.14049, 2021.
[55] B. Nasrulin, G. Ishmaev, and J. Pouwelse, “Meritrank: Sybil tolerant
reputation for merit-based tokenomics,” in2022 4th Conference on
Blockchain Research & Applications for Innovative Networks and Ser-
vices (BRAINS). IEEE, 2022, pp. 95–102.
[56] E. Rennie, M. Zargham, J. Tan, L. Miller, J. Abbott, K. Nabben, and
P. De Filippi, “Toward a participatory digital ethnography of blockchain
governance,”Qualitative Inquiry, vol. 28, no. 7, pp. 837–847, 2022.
[57] “Gitcoin — Fund What Matters To Your Community — gitcoin.co,”
https://www.gitcoin.co/, [Accessed 08-05-2025].
[58] G. Pass, A. Chowdhury, and C. Torgeson, “A picture of search,” in
Proceedings of the 1st international conference on Scalable information
systems, 2006, pp. 1–es.
[59] S. MacAvaney, A. Yates, S. Feldman, D. Downey, A. Cohan, and
N. Goharian, “Simplified data wrangling with ir datasets,” inSIGIR,
2021.
[60] S. MacAvaney, C. Macdonald, and I. Ounis, “Reproducing personalised
session search over the aol query log,” inEuropean Conference on
Information Retrieval. Springer, 2022, pp. 627–640.
[61] Q. Guo, W. Chen, and H. Wan, “Aol4ps: a large-scale data set for
personalized search,”Data Intelligence, vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 548–567, 2021.
[62] S. E. Robertson, S. Walker, S. Jones, M. M. Hancock-Beaulieu, M. Gat-
fordet al., “Okapi at trec-3,”Nist Special Publication Sp, vol. 109, p.
109, 1995.
[63] S. Robertson, H. Zaragozaet al., “The probabilistic relevance frame-
work: Bm25 and beyond,”Foundations and Trends® in Information
Retrieval, vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 333–389, 2009.
[64] J. Ni, G. H. Abrego, N. Constant, J. Ma, K. B. Hall, D. Cer, and Y . Yang,
“Sentence-t5: Scalable sentence encoders from pre-trained text-to-text
models,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.08877, 2021.

[65] E. M. V oorhees, “The trec-8 question answering track report.” inTrec,
vol. 99, 1999, pp. 77–82.
[66] J. Xu and H. Li, “Adarank: a boosting algorithm for information
retrieval,” inProceedings of the 30th annual intl. ACM SIGIR conf. on
Research and development in information retrieval, 2007, pp. 391–398.
[67] V . Tolpegin, S. Truex, M. E. Gursoy, and L. Liu, “Data poisoning attacks
against federated learning systems,” inComputer security–ESORICs
2020: 25th European symposium on research in computer security,
ESORICs 2020, guildford, UK, September 14–18, 2020, proceedings,
part i 25. Springer, 2020, pp. 480–501.
[68] A. Paudice, L. Mu ˜noz-Gonz´alez, and E. C. Lupu, “Label sanitization
against label flipping poisoning attacks,” inECML PKDD 2018 Work-
shops: Nemesis 2018, UrbReas 2018, SoGood 2018, IWAISe 2018, and
Green Data Mining 2018, Dublin, Ireland, September 10-14, 2018,
Proceedings 18. Springer, 2019, pp. 5–15.
[69] S. Maleki, L. Tran-Thanh, G. Hines, T. Rahwan, and A. Rogers, “Bound-
ing the estimation error of sampling-based shapley value approximation
with/without stratifying,”CoRR, abs/1306.4265, vol. 2, no. 1, 2013.
[70] M. Wu, R. Jia, C. Lin, W. Huang, and X. Chang, “Variance reduced
shapley value estimation for trustworthy data valuation,”Computers &
Operations Research, vol. 159, p. 106305, 2023.
[71] R. Jia, D. Dao, B. Wang, F. A. Hubis, N. M. Gurel, B. Li, C. Zhang,
C. J. Spanos, and D. Song, “Efficient task-specific data valuation for
nearest neighbor algorithms,”arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.08619, 2019.
[72] J. T. Wang and R. Jia, “Data banzhaf: A robust data valuation frame-
work for machine learning,” inInternational Conference on Artificial
Intelligence and Statistics. PMLR, 2023, pp. 6388–6421.