A Measurement Study of Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Systems
Stefan Saroiu, P. Krishna Gummadi, Steven D. Gribble
Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, Univ. of Washington, Seattle, WA, 98195-2350
ABSTRACT
Thepopularityofpeer-to-peermultimediaﬁlesharingapplicationssuchasGnutellaandNapsterhascreateda
ﬂurryofrecentresearchactivityintopeer-to-peerarchitectures. Webelievethattheproperevaluationofapeer-
to-peersystemmusttakeintoaccountthecharacteristicsofthepeersthatchoosetoparticipate. Surprisingly,
however, few of the peer-to-peer architectures currently being developed are evaluated with respect to such
considerations. Inthispaper,weremedythissituationbyperformingadetailedmeasurementstudyofthetwo
popularpeer-to-peerﬁlesharingsystems,namelyNapsterandGnutella. Inparticular,ourmeasurementstudy
seeks to precisely characterize the population of end-user hosts that participate in these two systems. This
characterization includes the bottleneck bandwidths between these hosts and the Internet at large, IP-level
latencies to send packets to these hosts, howoften hosts connect and disconnect from the system, howmany
ﬁles hosts share and download, the degree of cooperation between the hosts, and several correlations between
these characteristics. Our measurements showthat there is signiﬁcant heterogeneity and lack of cooperation
acrosspeersparticipatinginthesesystems.
Keywords: Peer-to-Peer,NetworkMeasurements,Wide-AreaSystems,InternetServices,Broadband
1. INTRODUCTION
The popularity of peer-to-peer ﬁle sharing applications such as Gnutella and Napster has created a ﬂurry of
recent research activity into peer-to-peer architectures.1–6 Although the exact deﬁnition of “peer-to-peer” is
debatable,thesesystemstypicallylackdedicated,centralizedinfrastructure,butratherdependonthevoluntary
participation of peers to contribute resources out of which the infrastructure is constructed. Membership in a
peer-to-peersystemisad-hocanddynamic: assuch,thechallengeofsuchsystemsistoﬁgureoutamechanism
and architecture for organizing the peers in such a way so that they can cooperate to provide a useful service
to the community of users. For example, in a ﬁle sharing application, one challenge is organizing peers into a
cooperative,globalindexsothatallcontentcanbequicklyandeﬃcientlylocatedbyanypeerinthesystem. 2–4, 6
Inordertoevaluateaproposedpeer-to-peersystem,thecharacteristicsofthepeersthatchoosetoparticipate
in the system must be understood and taken into account. For example, if some peersin a ﬁle-sharing system
have low-bandwidth, high-latency bottleneck network connections to the Internet, the system must be careful
to avoid delegating large or popular portions of the distributed index to those peers, for fear of overwhelming
themandmakingthatportionoftheindexunavailabletootherpeers. Similarly,thetypicaldurationthatpeers
choose to remain connected to the infrastructure has implications for the degree of redundancy necessary to
keep data or index metadata highly available. In short, the system must take into account the suitability of a
givenpeerforaspeciﬁctaskbeforeexplicitlyorimplicitlydelegatingthattasktothepeer.
Surprisingly,however,few ofthearchitecturescurrentlybeingdevelopedareevaluatedwithrespecttosuch
considerations. We believe that this is, in part, due to a lack of information about the characteristics of hosts
that choose to participate in peer-to-peer systems. We are aware of a single previous study7 that measures
only one such characteristic, namely the number of ﬁles peers share. In this paper, we remedy this situation
byperformingadetailedmeasurementstudyofthetwomostpopularpeer-to-peerﬁlesharingsystems,namely
Napster and Gnutella. The hosts that choose to participate in these systems are typically end-users’ home or
oﬃcemachines,locatedatthe“edge”oftheInternet.
Our measurement study seeks to precisely characterize the population of end-user hosts that participate
in these two systems. This characterization includes the bottleneck bandwidths between these hosts and the
Internet at large, IP-level latencies to send packets to these hosts, howoften hosts connect and disconnect
fromthesystem,howmanyﬁleshostsshareanddownload,andcorrelationsbetweenthesecharacteristics. Our
Theauthorsmaybecontactedat {tzoompy,gummadi,gribble}@cs.washington.edu

S S
S S
napster.com
P P
P
P
P
P
Q
R
D
P
P
PP
P
P
P
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
D
R
P
S
peer
server
Q
R
D
response
query
file download
Napster Gnutella
R
Figure 1: FilelocationinNapsterandGnutella
measurements consist of detailed traces of these two systems gathered over long periods of time — four days
forNapsterandeightdaysforGnutellarespectively.
Therearetwomainlessonstobelearnedfromourmeasurementresults. First,thereisasigniﬁcantamount
ofheterogeneityinbothGnutellaandNapster;bandwidth,latency,availability,andthedegreeofsharingvary
between three and ﬁve orders of magnitude across the peers in the system. This implies that any similar
peer-to-peer system must be very careful about delegating responsibilities across peers. Second, peers tend to
deliberatelymisreportinformationifthereisanincentivetodoso. Becauseeﬀectivedelegationofresponsibility
dependsonaccurateinformation,thisimpliesthatfuturesystemsmusthavebuilt-inincentivesforpeerstotell
thetruth,orsystemsmustbeabletodirectlymeasureorverifyreportedinformation.
2. METHODOLOGY
Themethodologybehindourmeasurementsisquitesimple. ForeachoftheNapsterandGnutellasystems,we
proceeded in two steps. First, we periodicallycrawledeach system in order to gather instantaneous snapshots
of large subsets of the systems’ user population. The information gathered in these snapshots include the IP
addressandportnumberoftheusers’clientsoftware,aswellassomeinformationabouttheusersasreportedby
theirsoftware. Second,immediatelyaftergatheringasnapshot,weactivelyprobedtheusersinthesnapshotover
aperiodofseveraldaystodirectlymeasurevariouspropertiesaboutthem,suchastheirbottleneckbandwidth.
In this section of the paper, we ﬁrst give a brief overview of the architectures of Napster and Gnutella.
Followingthis,wethendescribethesoftwareinfrastructurethatwebuilttogatherourmeasurements,including
theNapstercrawler,theGnutellacrawler,andtheactivemeasurementtoolsusedtoprobetheusersdiscovered.
2.1. The Napster and Gnutella Architectures
BothNapsterandGnutellahavesimilargoals: tofacilitatethelocationandexchangeofﬁles(typicallyimages,
audio,orvideo)amongstalargegroupofindependentusersconnectedthroughtheInternet. Inthesesystems,
ﬁles are stored on the computers of the individual users orpeers, and exchanged through a direct connection
between the downloading and uploading peers, over an HTTP-style protocol. All peers in this system are
symmetric: theyallhavetheabilitytofunctionbothasaclientandaserver. Thissymmetrydistinguishespeer-
to-peer systems from many conventional distributed system architectures. Though the process of exchanging
ﬁlesissimilarinbothsystems,NapsterandGnutelladiﬀersubstantiallyinhowpeerslocateﬁles(Figure1).
InNapster,alargeclusterofdedicatedcentralserversmaintainanindexoftheﬁlesthatarecurrentlybeing
shared by active peers. Each peer maintains a connection to one of the central servers, through which the ﬁle
locationqueriesaresent. Theserversthencooperatetoprocessthequeryandreturnalistofmatchingﬁlesand
locations. On receiving the results, the peer may choose to initiate a ﬁle exchange directly from another peer.
In addition to maintaining an index of shared ﬁles, the centralized servers also monitor the state of each peer
in the system, keeping track of metadata such as the peers’ reported connection bandwidth and the duration
thatthepeerhasremainedconnectedtothesystem. Thismetadataisreturnedwiththeresultsofaquery,so
thattheinitiatingpeerhassomeinformationtodistinguishpossibledownloadsites.
There are no centralized servers in Gnutella, however. Instead, Gnutella peers form anoverlay networkby
forgingpoint-to-pointconnectionswithasetofneighbors. Tolocateaﬁle,apeerinitiatesacontrolledﬂoodof
the network by sending a query packet to all of its neighbors. Upon receiving a query packet, a peer checks if

any locally stored ﬁles match the query. If so, the peer sends a query response packet back towards the query
originator. Whetherornotaﬁlematchisfound,thepeercontinuestoﬂoodthequerythroughtheoverlay.
To help maintain the overlay as the users enter and leave the system, the Gnutella protocol includesping
andpongmessagesthathelppeerstodiscover othernodes. Pings andpongsbehavesimilarly to query/query-
response packets: any peer that sees a ping message sends a pong back towards the originator, and forwards
thepingonwardstoitsownsetofneighbors. Pingandquerypacketsthusﬂoodthroughthenetwork;thescope
of ﬂooding is controlled with a time-to-live (TTL) ﬁeld that is decremented on each hop. Peers occasionally
forge newneighbor connections w ith other peers discovered through the ping/pong mechanism. Note that it
ispossibletohaveseveraldisjointGnutellaoverlaysofGnutellasimultaneouslycoexistingintheInternet;this
contrastswithNapster,inwhichpeersarealwaysconnectedtothesameclusterofcentralservers.
2.2. Crawling the Peer-to-Peer Systems
WenowdescribethedesignandimplementationofourNapsterandGnutellacrawlers.
2.2.1. The Napster Crawler
Because we did not have direct access to indexes maintained by the central Napster servers, the only way we
could discover the set of peers participating in the system at any time was by issuing queries for ﬁles, and
keeping a list of peers referenced in the queries’ responses. To discover the largest possible set of peers, we
issuedquerieswiththenamesofpopularsongartistsdrawnfromalonglistdownloadedfromtheweb.
The Napster server cluster consists of approximately 160 servers; each peer establishes a connection with
only one server. When a peer issues a query, the server the peer is connected to ﬁrst reports ﬁles shared by
“localusers”onthesameserver,andlaterreportsmatchingﬁlessharedby“remoteusers”onotherserversin
the cluster. For each crawl, we established a large number of connections to a single server, and issued many
queriesinparallel; thisreducedtheamountoftimetakentogatherdatato3-4minutespercrawl, givingusa
nearly instantaneous snapshot of peers connected to that server. For each peer that we discovered during the
crawl, we then queried the Napster server to gather the following metadata: (1) the bandwidth of the peer’s
connection as reported by the peer herself, (2) the number of ﬁles currently being shared by the peer, (3) the
currentnumberofuploadsandthenumberofdownloadsinprogressbythepeer,(4)thenamesandsizesofall
theﬁlesbeingsharedbythepeer,and(5)theIPaddressofthepeer.
To get an estimate of the fraction of the total user population we captured, we separated the local and
remotepeersreturnedinourqueries’responses,andcomparedthemtostatisticsperiodicallybroadcastbythe
particularNapsterserverthatwequeried. Fromthesestatistics,weveriﬁedthateachcrawltypicallycaptured
between40%and60%ofthelocalpeersonthecrawledserver. Furthermore,this40-60%ofthepeersthatwe
captured contributed between 80-95% of the total (local) ﬁles reported to the server. Thus, we feel that our
crawlercapturedarepresentativeandsigniﬁcantfractionofthesetofpeers.
Our crawler did not capture any peers that do not share any of the popular content in our queries. This
introducesabiasinourresults,particularlyinourmeasurementsthatreportthenumberofﬁlesbeingshared
by users. However, the statistics reported by the Napster server revealed that the distributions of number of
uploads,numberofdownloads,numberofﬁlesshared,andbandwidthsreportedforallremoteuserswerequite
similartothosethatweobservedfromourcapturedlocalusers.
2.2.2. The Gnutella Crawler
The goal of our Gnutella crawler is the same as our Napster crawler: to gather nearly instantaneous snap-
shots of a signiﬁcant subset of the Gnutella population, as well as metadata about peers in captured subset
as reported by the Gnutella system itself. Our crawler exploits the ping/pong messages in the protocol to
discover hosts. First, the crawler connects to several well-known, popular peers (such asgnutellahosts.com
or router.limewire.com). Then, it begins an iterative process of sending ping messages with large TTLs
to known peers, adding newly discovered peers to its list of known peers based on the contents of received
pongmessages. InadditiontotheIPaddressofapeer,eachpongmessagecontainsmetadataaboutthepeer,
includingthenumberandtotalsizeofﬁlesbeingshared.
Weallowed ourcrawler tocontinue iterating forapproximately twominutes, after whichitwouldtypically
gatherbetween8,000and10,000uniquepeers(Figure2). AccordingtomeasurementsreportedbyClip2, 8 this
corresponds to at least 25% to 50% of the total population of peers in the system at any time. After two

Figure 2: NumberofGnutellahostscapturedbyourcrawlerovertime
minutes, we would terminate the crawler, save the crawling results to a ﬁle and begin another crawl iteration
togatherournextsnapshotoftheGnutellapopulation.
Unlike our Napster measurements, in which we were more likely to capture hosts sharing popular songs,
we have no reason to suspect any bias in our measurements of the Gnutella user population. Furthermore,
to ensure that the crawling process does not alter the behavior of the system in any way, our crawler neither
forwardedanyGnutellaprotocolmessagesnoransweredanyqueries.
2.2.3. Crawler Statistics
BoththeNapsterandGnutellacrawlerswerewritteninJava,andranusingtheIBMJava1.18JREonLinux
2.2.16. Thecrawlersraninparallelonasmallnumberofdual-processorPentiumIII700MHzcomputerswith
2GB RAM, and four 40GB SCSI disks. Our Napster trace captured four days of activity, from Sunday May
6th,2001throughWednesdayMay9th,2001. Werecordedatotalof509,538Napsterpeerson546,401unique
IPaddresses. OurGnutellatracespannedeightdays(SundayMay6th,2001throughMondayMay14th,2001)
andcaptured1,239,487Gnutellapeerson1,180,205uniqueIP-addresses.
2.3. Directly Measured Peer Characteristics
Foreachgatheredpeerpopulationsnapshot,wedirectlymeasuredadditionalpropertiesofthepeers. Ourgoal
wastocapturedatathatwouldenableustoreasonaboutthefundamentalcharacteristicsoftheusers(bothas
individualsandasapopulation)participatinginanypeer-to-peerﬁlesharingsystem. Thedatacollectedincludes
the distributions of bottleneck bandwidths and latencies between peers and our measurement infrastructure,
the number of shared ﬁles per peer, the distribution of peers across DNS domains, and the “lifetime” of the
peersinthesystem,i.e.,howfrequentlypeersconnecttothesystems,andhowlongtheyremainconnected.
2.3.1. Latency Measurements
Giventhelistofpeers’IP-addressesobtainedbythecrawlers,wemeasuredtheround-triplatencybetweenthe
peersandourmeasurementmachines. Forthis,weusedasimpletoolthatmeasurestheRTTofa40-byteTCP
packetexchangedbetweenapeerandourmeasurementhost. Ourinterestinlatenciesofthepeersisduetothe
well known feature of TCP congestion control which discriminates against ﬂows with large round-trip times.
This, coupled with the fact that the average size of ﬁles exchanged is in the order of 2-4 MB, makes latency a
veryimportantconsiderationwhenselectingamongstmultiplepeerssharingthesameﬁle. Althoughwerealize
that the latency to any particular peer isdependent on the location of the host from which it is measured, we
feelthedistributionoflatenciesovertheentirepopulationofpeersfromagivenhostmightbesimilar(butnot
identical)fromdiﬀerenthosts,andhence,couldbeofinterest.
2.3.2. Lifetime Measurements
Togathermeasurementsofthelifetimecharacteristicsofpeers,weneededatoolthatwouldperiodicallyprobe
alargesetofpeersfrombothsystemstodetectwhentheywereparticipatinginthesystem. Everypeerinboth

Napster and Gnutella connects to the system using a unique IP-address/port-number pair; to download a ﬁle,
peers connect to each other using these pairs. There are therefore three possible states for any participating
peerineitherNapsterorGnutella:
1. oﬄine: thepeeriseithernotconnectedtotheInternetorisnotrespondingtoTCPSYNpacketsbecause
itisbehindaﬁrewallorNATproxy.
2. inactive: thepeerisconnectedtotheInternetandisrespondingtoTCPSYNpackets,butitisdiscon-
nectedfromthepeer-to-peersystemandhencerespondswithTCPRST’s.
3. active: the peer is actively participating in the peer-to-peer system, and is accepting incoming TCP
connections.
We developed a simple tool (which we callLF) using Savage’s “Sting” platform.9 To detect the state of a
host,LFsendsa TCP SYN-packet to the peer and then waits for upto twenty seconds to receive any packets
fromit. Ifnopacketarrives,wemarkthepeerasoﬄine. IfwereceiveaTCPRSTpacket,wemarkthepeeras
inactive. IfwereceiveaTCPSYN/ACK,welabelthehostasactive,andsendbackaRSTpackettoterminate
theconnection. WechosetomanipulateTCPpacketsdirectlyratherthanuseOSsocketcallstoachievegreater
scalability; this enabled us to monitor the lifetimes of tens of thousands of hosts per workstation. Because
we identify a host by its IP address, one limitation in the lifetime characterization of peers our inability of
distinguishinghostssharingdynamicIPaddresses(e.g. DHCP).
2.3.3. Bottleneck Bandwidth Measurements
Another characteristic of peers that we wanted to gather was the speed of their connections to the Internet.
This is not a precisely deﬁned concept: the rate at which content can be downloaded from a peer depends on
the bottleneck bandwidth between the downloader and the peer, the available bandwidth along the path, and
thelatencybetweenthepeers.
ThecentralNapsterserverscanprovidetheconnectionbandwidthofanypeerasreportedbythepeeritself.
However, as we will show later, a substantial percentage of the Napster peers (as high as 25%) choose not
to report their bandwidths. Furthermore, there is a clear incentive for a peer to discourage other peers from
downloadingﬁlesbyfalselyreportingalowbandwidth. ThesameincentivetolieexistsinGnutella;inaddition
tothis,inGnutella,bandwidthisreportedonlyaspartofasuccessfulresponsetoaquery,sopeersthatshare
nodataorwhosecontentdoesnotmatchanyqueriesneverreporttheirbandwidths.
Because of this, we decided to actively probe the bandwidths of peers. There are two diﬃcult problems
with measuring the available bandwidth to and from a large number of hosts: ﬁrst, available bandwidth can
signiﬁcantly ﬂuctuateovershortperiodsoftime, andsecond,availablebandwidthisdeterminedbymeasuring
the loss rate of an open TCP connection. Instead, we decided to use the bottleneck link bandwidth as a ﬁrst-
orderapproximationtotheavailablebandwidth;becauseourworkstationsareconnectedbyagigabitlinktothe
Abilenenetwork,itislikelythatthebottlenecklinkbetweenourworkstationsandanypeerinthesesystemsis
last-hoplinktothepeeritself. Thisisparticularlylikelysince,aswewillshow later,mostpeersareconnected
to the system using low-speed modems or broadband connections such as cable modems or DSL. Thus, if we
couldcharacterizethebottleneckbandwidthbetweenourmeasurementinfrastructureandthepeers,wewould
haveafairlyaccurateupperboundontherateatwhichinformationcouldbedownloadedfromthesepeers.
Bottlenecklinkbandwidthbetweentwodiﬀerenthostsequalsthecapacityofthe slowesthopalongthepath
between the two hosts. Thus, by deﬁnition, bottleneck link bandwidth is a physical property of the network
thatremainsconstantovertimeforanindividualpath.
Althoughvariousbottlenecklinkbandwidthmeasurementtoolsareavailable, 10–13 foranumberofreasons
that are beyond the scope of this paper, all of these tools were unsatisfactory for our purposes. Hence, we
developedourowntool(called SProbe)14 basedonthesameunderlyingpacket-pairdispersiontechniqueassome
of the above-mentioned tools. Unlike other tools, however, SProbe uses tricks inspired by Sting9 to actively
measure both upstream and downstream bottleneck bandwidths using only a few TCP packets. Our tool also
proactively detects cross-traﬃc that interferes with the accuracy of the packet-pair technique, improving the
overallaccuracyofourmeasurements. ∗ Bycomparingthereportedbandwidthsofthepeerswithourmeasured
∗FormoreinformationaboutSProbe,referto http://sprobe.cs.washington.edu.

Figure 3. Left: CDFsofupstreamanddownstreambottleneckbandwidthsforGnutellapeers; Right: CDFsofdown-
streambottleneckbandwidthsforNapsterandGnutellapeers.
bandwidths,wewereabletoverifytheconsistencyandaccuracyofSProbe,aswewilldemonstrateinSection3.5.
2.3.4. A Summary of the Active Measurements
Forthelifetimemeasurements,wemonitored17,125Gnutellapeersoveraperiodof60hoursand7,000Napster
peers over a period of 25 hours. For each Gnutella peer, we determined its status (oﬄine, inactive or active)
onceeverysevenminutes,andforeachNapsterpeer,onceeverytwominutes.
For Gnutella, we attempted to measure bottleneck bandwidths and latencies to a random set of 595,974
unique peers (i.e., unique IP-address/port-number pairs). We were successful in gathering downstream bot-
tleneck bandwidth measurements to 223,552 of these peers, the remainder of which were either oﬄine or had
signiﬁcant cross-traﬃc. We measured upstream bottleneck bandwidths from 16,252 of the peers (for various
reasons,upstreambottleneckbandwidthmeasurementsfromhostsaremuchhardertoobtainthandownstream
measurementstohosts 14). Finally,wewereabletomeasurelatencyto339,502peers. ForNapster,weattempted
tomeasuredownstreambottleneckbandwidthsto4,079uniquepeers. Wesuccessfullymeasured2,049peers.
In several cases, our active measurements were regarded as intrusive by several monitored systems. Un-
fortunately, e-mail complaints received by the computing staﬀ at the University of Washington forced us to
prematurely terminate our crawls, hence the lower number of monitored Napster hosts. Nevertheless, we suc-
cessfully captured a signiﬁcant number of data points for us to believe that our results and conclusions are
representativefortheentireNapsterpopulation.
3. MEASUREMENT RESULTS
Our measurement results are organized according to a number of basic questions addressing the capabilities
andbehaviorofpeers. Inparticular, weattempttoaddresshow manypeersarecapableofbeingservers,how
many behave like clients, howmany are w illing to cooperate, and also howw ell the Gnutella netw ork behaves
inthefaceofrandomormaliciousfailures.
3.1. How Many Peers Fit the High-Bandwidth, Low-Latency Proﬁle of a Server?
One particularly relevant characteristic of peer-to-peer ﬁle sharing systems is the percentage of peers in the
systemhaving server-likecharacteristics. Morespeciﬁcally,weareinterestedinunderstandingwhatpercentage
oftheparticipatingpeersexhibittheserver-likecharacteristicswithrespecttotheirbandwidthsandlatencies.
Peersworthyofbeingserversmusthavehigh-bandwidthInternetconnections,theyshouldremainhighlyavail-
able, and the latency of access to the peers should generally be low. If there is a high degree of heterogeneity
amongstthepeers,awell-designedsystemshouldpaycarefulattentiontodelegatingroutingandcontent-serving
responsibilities,favoringserver-likepeers.
3.1.1. Downstream and Upstream Measured Bottleneck Link Bandwidths
To ﬁt the proﬁle of a high-bandwidth server, a participating peer must have a high upstream bottleneck link
bandwidth, since this value determines the rate at which a server can serve content. On the left, Figure 3

Figure 4. Left: Reported bandwidths For Napster peers; Right: Reported bandwidths for Napster peers, excluding
peersthatreported“unknown”.
presents cumulative distribution functions (CDFs) of upstream and downstream bottleneck bandwidths for
Gnutellapeers. † Fromthisgraph,weseethatwhile92%oftheparticipatingpeershavedownstreambottleneck
bandwidthsofatleast100Kbps,only8%ofthepeershaveupstreambottleneckbandwidthsofatleast10Mbps.
Moreover, 22% of the participating peers have upstream bottleneck bandwidths of 100Kbps or less. Not only
arethese peersunsuitable to provide content and data, they areparticularly susceptible to being swamped by
arelativelysmallnumberofconnections.
The left graph in Figure 3 reveals asymmetry in the upstream and downstream bottleneck bandwidths of
Gnutellapeers. Onaverage,apeertendstohavehigherdownstreamthanupstreambottleneckbandwidth;this
is not surprising, because a large fraction of peers depend on asymmetric links such as ADSL, cable modems
or regular modems using the V.90 protocol.15 Although this asymmetry is beneﬁcial to peers that download
content,itisbothundesirableanddetrimentaltopeersthatservecontent: intheory,thedownloadcapacityof
thesystemexceedsitsuploadcapacity. WeobservedasimilarasymmetryintheNapsternetwork.
TherightgraphinFigure3presentsCDFsofdownstreambottleneckbandwidthsforNapsterandGnutella
peers. Asthisgraphillustrates,thepercentageofNapsterusersconnectedwithmodems(of64Kbpsorless)is
about25%,whilethepercentageofGnutellauserswithsimilarconnectivityisaslowas8%.
Atthesametime,50%oftheusersinNapsterand60%oftheusersinGnutellausebroadbandconnections
(Cable,DSL,T1orT3). Furthermore,onlyabout20%oftheusersinNapsterand30%oftheusersinGnutella
haveveryhighbandwidthconnections(atleast3Mbps). Overall,Gnutellausersonaveragetendtohavehigher
downstream bottleneck bandwidths than Napster users. Based on our experience, we attribute this diﬀerence
to two factors: (1) the current ﬂooding-based Gnutella protocol is too high of a burden on low bandwidth
connections, discouraging them from participating, and (2) although unveriﬁable, there is a widespread belief
thatGnutellaismorepopulartotechnically-savvyusers,whotendtohavefasterInternetconnections.
3.1.2. Reported Bandwidths for Napster Peers
Figure4illustratesthebreakdownofNapsterpeerswithrespecttotheirvoluntarilyreportedbandwidths;the
bandwidththatisreportedisselectedbytheuserduringtheinstallationoftheNapsterclientsoftware. (Peers
thatreport“Unknown”bandwidthhavebeenexcludedintherightgraph.)
AsFigure4shows,asigniﬁcantpercentoftheNapsterusers(22%)report“Unknown”. Theseusersareeither
unaware of their connection bandwidths, or they have no incentive to accurately report their true bandwidth.
Indeed, knowing a peer’s connection speed is more valuable to others rather than to the peer itself; a peer
that reports high bandwidth is more likely to receive download requests from other peers, consuming network
resources. Thus,usershaveanincentivetomisreporttheirInternetconnectionspeeds. Awell-designedsystem
thereforemusteitherdirectlymeasurethebandwidthsratherthanrelyingonauser’sinput,orcreatetheright
†“Upstream” denotes traﬃc from the peer to the measurement node; “downstream” denotes traﬃc from the mea-
surementnodetothepeer.

Figure 5.Left: MeasuredlatenciestoGnutellapeers;Right: CorrelationbetweenGnutellapeers’downstreambottleneck
bandwidthandlatency.
incentivesfortheuserstoreportaccurateinformationtothesystem.
FinallybothFigures3and4conﬁrmthatthemostpopularformsofInternetaccessforNapsterandGnutella
peersarecablemodemsandDSLs(bottleneckbandwidthsbetween1Mbpsand3.5Mbps).
3.1.3. Measured Latencies for Gnutella Peers
Figure5(left)showsaCDFofthemeasuredlatenciesfromourmeasurementnodestoGnutellapeers. Approx-
imately20%ofthepeershavelatenciesofatleast280ms,whereasanother20%havelatenciesofatmost70ms:
the closest 20% of the peers are four timescloser than the furthest 20%. From this, we can deduce that in a
peer-to-peersystemwherepeers’connectionsareforgedinanunstructured,ad-hocway,asubstantialfraction
oftheconnectionswillsuﬀerfromhigh-latency.
On the right, Figure 5 shows the correlation between downstream bottleneck bandwidth and the latency
of individual Gnutella peers (on a log-log scale). This graph illustrates the presence of two clusters; a smaller
one situated at (20-60Kbps, 100-1,000ms) and a larger one at over (1,000Kbps, 60-300ms). These clusters
correspondtothesetofmodemsandbroadbandconnections,respectively. Thenegativelyslopedlower-bound
evident in the low-bandwidth region of the graph corresponds to the non-negligible transmission delay of our
measurementpacketsthroughthelow-bandwidthlinks.
An interesting artifact evident in this graph is the presence of two pronounced horizontal bands. These
bands correspond to peers situated on the North American East Coast and in Europe, respectively. Although
the latencies presented in this graph are relative to our location (Seattle, WA), these results can be extended
to conclude that there are three large classes of latencies that a peer interacts with: (1) latencies to peers on
the same part of the continent, (2) latencies to peers on the opposite part of a continent and (3) latencies to
trans-oceanicpeers. AsFigure5shows,thebandwidthsofthepeersﬂuctuatesigniﬁcantlywithineachofthese
threelatencyclasses.
3.2. How Many Peers Fit the High-Availability Proﬁle of a Server?
Server worthiness is characterized not only by high-bandwidth and low-latency network connectivity, but also
bytheavailabilityoftheserver. If,peerstendtobeunavailablefrequently,thiswillhavesigniﬁcantimplications
aboutthedegreeofreplicationnecessarytoensurethatcontentisconsistentlyaccessibleonthissystem.
On the left, Figure 6 shows the distribution ofuptimes of peers for both Gnutella and Napster. Uptime
is measured as the percentage of time that the peer is available and responding to traﬃc. The “Internet host
uptime” curves represent the uptime as measured at the IP-level, i.e., peers that are in the inactiveor active
states, as deﬁned in Section 2.3.2. The “Gnutella/Napster host uptime” curves represent the uptime of peers
in the active state, and therefore responding to application-level requests. For all curves, we have eliminated
peersthathad0%uptime(peersthatwereneverupthroughoutourlifetimeexperiment).
The IP-level uptime characteristics of peers are quite similar for both systems; this implies that the set of

Figure 6. Left: IP-level uptime of peers (“Internet Host Uptime”), and application-level uptime of peers
(“Gnutella/Napster Host Uptime”) in both Napster and Gnutella, as measured by the percentage of time the peers
arereachable;Right: ThedistributionofNapster/Gnutellasessiondurations.
peers participating in either Napster or Gnutella are homogeneous with respect to their IP-level uptime. In
addition,only20%ofthepeersineachsystemhadanIP-leveluptimeof93%ormore.
In contrast, the application-level uptime characteristics of peers diﬀer noticeably between Gnutella and
Napster. On average, Napster peers tend to participate in the system more often than Gnutella peers. One
might hastily conclude that since more users participate in Napster, more content is available and therefore
peers have, on average, longer uptimes. However, this data can also be used to draw an opposite conclusion:
morecontentmeansthatuserscanﬁndtheﬁlesofinterestfaster,whichresultsinshorteruptimes. Webelieve
that this diﬀerence is primarily a factor of the design of the client software; Napster’s software has several
features(suchasabuilt-inchatclientandanMP3player)thatcauseuserstorunitforlongerperiodsoftime.
Anothersigniﬁcantdiﬀerencecanbeobservedinthetailoftheapplication-leveldistributions: thebest20%
ofNapsterpeershaveanuptimeof83%ormore,whilethebest20%ofGnutellapeershaveanuptimeof45%
ormore. Our(unproven)hypothesisisthatNapsteris,ingeneral,ahigherqualityandmoreusefulservice,and
thatthishasalargeinﬂuenceontheuptimeofitspeersrelativetoGnutella.
Ontheright,Figure6presentstheCDFofNapsterandGnutellasessiondurationsthatare lessthantwelve
hours. The graph is limited to twelve hoursbecause of the nature of our analysis method; we used the create-
based method,16 in which we divided the captured traces into two halves. The reported durations are only
for sessions that started in the ﬁrst half, and ﬁnished in either the ﬁrst or second half. This method provides
accurate information about the distribution of session durations for session that are shorter than half of our
trace,butitcannotprovideanyinformationatallaboutsessionsthatarelongerthanhalfourtrace. ‡
There is an obvious similarity between Napster and Gnutella; for both, most sessions are quite short—the
median session duration is approximately 60 minutes. This is not surprising, as it corresponds to the time it
typicallytakesforausertodownloadasmallnumberofmusicﬁlesfromtheservice.
3.3. How Many Peers Fit the No-Files-to-Share, Always-Downloading Proﬁle of a
Client?
In addition to understanding the percentage of server-like Napster and Gnutella peers, it is equally important
to determine the number of client-like peers. One aspect of a client-like behavior is that little or no data is
sharedinthesystem. Previousstudiesrefertothesepeersas free-riders7 inthesystem.
Another variable of interest is the number of downloads and uploads a participating peer is performing at
anygiventime. Apeerwithahighnumberofdownloadsﬁtstheproﬁleofaclient,whereasapeerwithahigh
number of uploads ﬁts the proﬁle of a server. In addition, correlating the number of downloads with a peer’s
‡This method is necessary, since sessions may be active (or inactive) for periods that are far longer than our trace
duration;theselongsessions,ifunaccounted,wouldskewtheresults.

Figure 7. Left: The number of shared ﬁles for Gnutella peers; Right: The number of shared ﬁles for Napster and
Gnutellapeers(peerswithnoﬁlestoshareareexcluded).
bandwidth should depict a clear picture as to how many of the participating peers bring no beneﬁts to the
system,i.e.,theyhavenoﬁlestoshare,theyhavelowbandwidths,andtheyalwaysdownloadﬁles.
Although we believe that any peer-to-peer system will have itsfree-riders, the system should not treat its
peersequally,butinstead,itshouldcreateincentivesandrewardsforpeerstoprovideandexchangedata.
3.3.1. Number of Shared Files in Napster and Gnutella
InFigure7,theleftgraphshowsthedistributionofsharedﬁlesacrossGnutellapeers,andtherightgraphshows
thisdistributionforbothNapsterandGnutella,butwithpeerssharingnoﬁleseliminatedfromthegraph. (As
previouslymentioned,wecouldnotcaptureanyinformationaboutpeerswithnoﬁlesfromNapster.)
Fromtheleftgraph,weseethatashighas25%oftheGnutellaclientsdonotshareanyﬁles. Furthermore,
about 75% of the clients share 100 ﬁles or less, whereas only 7% of the clients share more than 1000 ﬁles. A
simplecalculationrevealsthatthese7%ofuserstogetheroﬀermoreﬁlesthanalloftheotheruserscombined.
Thisfactillustratesthatinspiteofclaimsthat everypeerisbothaserverandaclient ,Gnutellahasaninherently
largepercentageof free-riders.
TherightgraphshowsthatNapsterpeersareslightlymoreconsistentandoﬀerlessvariationinthenumber
ofsharedﬁlesthanGnutellapeers. Nonetheless,about40-60%ofthepeersshareonly5-20%ofthesharedﬁles,
whichindicatesthatthereisalargeamountoffree-ridinginNapsteraswell.
Figure 8. Left: ThenumberofdownloadsbyNapsterusers,groupedbytheirreportedbandwidths;Right: Thenumber
ofuploadsbyNapsterusers,groupedbytheirreportedbandwidths.

Figure 9: Percentageofdownloads,peers,uploadsandsharedﬁles,groupedbyreportedbandwidths(inNapster).
3.3.2. Number of Downloads and Uploads in Napster
In Figure 8, the left graph shows the distribution of concurrent downloads by Napster peers classiﬁed by the
peer’s reported bandwidth, and the right graph shows a similar curve for the number of concurrent uploads.
Because these graphs were obtained by capturing snapshots of the download and upload activity using our
crawler, these distributions are slightly biased towards capturing low-bandwidth peers, since downloads take
longerthroughlow-bandwidthconnections.
Nonetheless, this graph shows interesting correlations between peers’ reported bandwidths and their con-
currentdownloadsanduploads. First,thereare20%morezero-downloadhigh-speedpeersthanzero-download
low-speedpeers. Weseetwopossibleexplanations: eitherhigher-bandwidthpeerstendtodownloadlessoften,or
theyspendlesstimedownloadingbecausetheyhavehigherconnectionspeeds. Second,thecorrelationbetween
bandwidths and the downloads is reversed relative to bandwidths and uploads (the percentage of zero-upload
peersishigherformodemsthanforcablemodems).
3.3.3. Correlation between the Number of Downloads, Uploads, and Shared Files
Figure 9 shows the percentage of downloads, the percentage of the peer population, the percentage of uploads
and the percentage of shared ﬁles, grouped according to the reported bandwidth from Napster peers. The
numberofsharedﬁlesseemstobeuniformlydistributedacrossthepopulation: thepercentageofpeersineach
bandwidthclassisroughlythesameasthepercentageofﬁlessharedbythatbandwidthclass.
However, the relative number of downloads and uploads varies signiﬁcantly across the bandwidth classes.
Forexample,although56Kbpsmodemsconstituteonly15%oftheNapsterpeers,theyaccountfor24%ofthe
downloads. Similarly,cablemodemsconstitute32%ofthepeers,buttheyaccountfor46%oftheuploads. The
skew in the number of uploads is attributed by users selecting high-bandwidth peers from which to download
content. The skewin the number of dow nloads, how ever, seems to be more representative of the natural
tendencyoflow-bandwidthpeerstobefree-riders.
3.4. The Nature of Shared Files
Another aspect of interest deals with the characteristics of the shared ﬁles in the two systems. In Napster,
all shared ﬁles must be in MP3 format, whereas any ﬁle type can be exchanged in Gnutella. Each point in
Figure 10 corresponds to the number of ﬁles and the number of MB a Napster and Gnutella peer reports as
shared (plotted on a log-log scale). The obvious lines in both graphs imply that there is a strong correlation
between the numbers of ﬁles shared and the number of shared MB of data. The slopes of the lines in both
graphs are virtually identical at 3.7MB, corresponding to the size of a shared typical MP3 audio ﬁle. Another
interestingpointisthepresenceofaGnutellapeerthatapparentlyshares0ﬁlesbut730MBofdata;clearlya
buginthesoftwareoracaseofmaliciouspeersmisreportingtheamountofdatatheyhavetoshare.

Figure 10: Sharedﬁlesvs. sharedMBofdatainNapsterandGnutella.
Figure 11. Left: Measureddownstreambottleneckbandwidthsforpeers,groupedbytheirreportedbandwidths;Right:
CDFs of measured downstream bottleneck bandwidths for those peers reporting unknown bandwidths along with all
Napsterusers.
3.5. How Much Are Peers Willing to Cooperate in a P2P File-Sharing System?
The peer-to-peer model fundamentally depends on the concept of cooperation. Howw illing peers are to co-
operate is of vital importance to the viability of these systems. Devising an experiment to quantify a peer’s
willingness to cooperate is of course very diﬃcult; as a ﬁrst-order approximation, we measured the extent to
whichpeersdeliberatelymisreporttheirbandwidths.
Onthe left, Figure11shows thedistribution of measuredbandwidths forNapsterpeers, classiﬁed bytheir
reported bandwidth. Note that as high as 30% of the users that report their bandwidth as 64 Kbps or less
actually have a signiﬁcantly greater bandwidth. In Napster (and any similar system), a peer has an incentive
toreportasmallerbandwidththantherealvalue,inordertodiscourageothersfrominitiatingdownloadsand
consuming the peer’s available bandwidth. Similarly, we expect most users with high bandwidths to rarely
misreporttheiractualbandwidths. Indeed,Figure11conﬁrmsthatonlythan10%oftheusersreportinghigh
bandwidth(3Mbpsorhigher)inrealityhavesigniﬁcantlylowerbandwidth.
In addition to showing that many peers are uncooperative in Napster, this graph serves to validate the
accuracy of our bottleneck bandwidth estimation technique. There is an extremely strong correlation between
measuredbandwidthandreportedbandwidth,acrossallreportedclasses.
TherightgraphinFigure11showsthedistributionofmeasureddownstreambottleneckbandwidthofNap-

Figure 12. Lower bound on the number of Gnutella peers that must suﬀer random breakdowns in order to fragment
theGnutellanetwork.
sterpeersreportingunknownbandwidths. Overlainontopofthisdistribution,wehaveshownthedistribution
ofmeasuredbandwidthsofallNapsterpeers,regardlessoftheirreportedbandwidth. Thesimilaritybetweenthe
twocurvesimpliesthatpeersreportingunknownbandwidthsareuniformlydistributedacrossthepopulation.
3.6. Resilience of the Gnutella Overlay in the Face of Attacks
In Gnutella, peersform an overlay network by each maintaining a number of point-to-point TCP connections,
overwhichvariousprotocolmessagesarerouted. TheGnutella overlay presentsagreatopportunity tounder-
stand the challenges of creating eﬀective overlay topologies. In particular, we were interested in the resilience
oftheGnutellaoverlayinthefaceoffailuresorattacks.
InGnutella, the factthatpeersareconnecting anddisconnecting fromthe network hasimplications about
the nature of the overlay topology. In practice, because peers tend to discover highly available and high-
outdegree nodes in the overlay, connections tend to be formed preferentially. As Barab´asi and Albert show,17
vertexconnectivitiesinnetworksthatcontinuouslyexpandbytheadditionofnew verticesandinwhichnodes
express preferential connectivity toward high-degree nodes follow a power-law distribution. Indeed, previous
studies have conﬁrmed the presence of a vertex connectivity power-law distribution for the Gnutella overlay8
withanindexof α=2 .3.
Cohenet. al18 haveanalyticallyderivedthatnetworksinwhichthevertexconnectivityfollowsapower-law
distribution with an index of at most (α< 3) are very robust in the face of random node breakdowns. More
concretely, in such networks, a connected cluster of peers that spans the entire network survives even in the
presenceofalargepercentage pofrandompeerbreakdowns,where pcanbeaslargeas:
p ≤1+
(
1 − mα−2K3−α α −2
3 − α
)−1
where m is the minimum node degree andK is the maximum node degree. For Gnutella, Figure 12 shows a
graphofthisequationasafunctionofthemaximumdegreeobservedinthesystem,wherethepower-lawindex
αwassetto2 .3andtheminimumnodedegree mwassetto1.
As this graph shows, Gnutella presents a highly robust overlay in the face of random breakdowns; for a
maximumnodedegreeof20(whichisapproximatelywhatweobservedintherealGnutellaoverlay),theoverlay
fragments only when more than 60% of the nodes shutdown. While overlay robustness is a highly desirable
property, the assumption of random failures breaks down in the face of an orchestrated attack. A malicious
attackwouldperhapsbedirectedagainstthebestconnected,popular,highdegreenodesintheoverlay.
TheleftgraphinFigure13depictsthetopologyof1771peersformingaconnectedsegmentoftheGnutella
networkcapturedonFebruary16th,2001. Themiddlegraphshowsaportionofthetopologyafter30%ofthe
nodes are randomly removed. After this removal, the largest connected component in the topology consists of
1106 of the remaining 1300 nodes. However, in the right graph, we show the original topology after removing

Figure 13. Left: Topology of the Gnutella network as of February 16, 2001 (1771 peers); Middle: Topology of the
Gnutella network after a random 30% of the nodes are removed; Right: Topology of the Gnutella network after the
highest-degree4%ofthenodesareremoved.
the 63 (less than 4%) best connected Gnutella peers. This removal has eﬀectively “shattered” the overlay
into a large number of disconnected components. As we see, although highly resilient in the face of random
breakdowns,Gnutellaisneverthelesshighlyvulnerableinthefaceofwell-orchestrated,targetedattacks.
4. RECOMMENDATIONS TO PEER-TO-PEER SYSTEM DESIGNERS
There has been a ﬂurry of proposed distributed algorithms for routing and location in a P2P system. Most of
these protocols and proposals make the implicit assumption that the delegation of responsibility across nodes
the overlay should be uniform, and hence that all nodes will tend to participate and contribute equally in
informationexchangeandrouting. Incontrast,ourmeasurementsindicatethatthesetofhostsparticipatingin
the Napster and Gnutella systems is heterogeneous with respect to many characteristics: Internet connection
speeds, latencies, lifetimes, shared data. In fact, the magnitude of these characteristics vary between three
and ﬁve orders of magnitude across the peers! Therefore, P2P systems should delegate diﬀerent degrees of
responsibilitytodiﬀerenthosts,basedonthehosts’physicalcharacteristicsandthedegreeoftrustorreliability.
Another frequent implicit assumption in these systems is that peers tend to be willing to cooperate. By
deﬁnition, to participate in a P2P system, a peer must obey the protocol associated with the system. In
addition, mostuserstendtodownloadpre-createdsoftwareclientstoparticipateinthesesystems(asopposed
toauthoringtheirown). Thesesoftwarepackagestypicallyaskuserstospecifyconﬁgurationparameters(such
asInternetconnectionspeed)thatwillbereportedtootherpeers. Aswehaveshown,manyoftheseparameters
areinpracticeeitherleftunspeciﬁedordeliberatelymisreported. Insteadofrelyingonreportedcharacteristics,
webelievethatarobustsystemshouldattempttodirectlymeasurethecharacteristicsofpeersinthesystem.
AnothermythinP2Pﬁle-sharingsystemsisthatallpeersbehaveequally,bothcontributingresourcesand
consuming them. Our measurements indicate that this is not true: client-like and server-like behavior can
clearlybeidentiﬁedinthepopulation. Aswehaveshown,approximately26%ofGnutellauserssharednodata;
theseusersareclearlyparticipatingtodownloaddataand nottoshare. Similarly,inNapsterweobservedthat
onaverage60-80%oftheusersshare80-100%oftheﬁles,implyingthat20-40%ofuserssharelittleornoﬁles.
TheexperimentsandthedatapresentedinthispaperindicatethatmanyofthecharacteristicsthatNapster
and Gnutella P2P systems in practice match the characteristics of the classic server-client model. Thus, we
believe that future robust P2P protocols should account for the hosts heterogeneity, relying on self-inspection
andadaptationtoexploitthediﬀerencesinthehosts’characteristics,behavior,andincentives.
5. CONCLUSIONS
Inthispaper,wepresentedameasurementstudyperformedoverthepopulationofpeersthatchoosetopartici-
pateintheGnutellaandNapsterpeer-to-peerﬁlesharingsystems. Ourmeasurementscapturedthebottleneck
bandwidth,latency,availability,andﬁlesharingpatternsofthesepeers.
Several lessons emerged from the results of our measurements. First, there is a signiﬁcant amount of

heterogeneity in both Gnutella and Napster; bandwidth, latency, availability, and the degree of sharing vary
betweenthreeandﬁveordersofmagnitudeacrossthepeersinthesystem. Thisimpliesthatanysimilarpeer-
to-peersystemmustbeverydeliberateandcarefulaboutdelegatingresponsibilitiesacrosspeers. Second,even
thoughthesesystemsweredesignedwithasymmetryofresponsibilitiesinmind,thereisclearevidenceofclient-
like or server-like behavior in a signiﬁcant fraction of systems’ populations. Third, peers tend to deliberately
misreportinformationifthereisanincentivetodoso. Becauseeﬀectivedelegationofresponsibilitydependson
accurate information, this implies that future systems must either have built-in incentives for peers to tell the
truthorsystemsmustbeabletodirectlymeasureandverifyreportedinformation.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We would like to thank all of the people in the University of Washington Computing and Communications
servicesandtheDepartmentofComputerScienceandEngineeringthatpatientlyrespondedtothemanyemail
messages arising from our bottleneck bandwidth measurement study. In particular, we would like to thank
Michael Hornung, Jan Sanislo, Erik Lundberg, and Ed Lazowska for supporting our work. We would also like
to thank Andy Collins, Neil Spring and AndrewWhitaker for their helpful comments on this research. This
workwassupportedbyNSFITRgrant0121341,andgiftsfromIntelCorporationandNortelNetworks.
REFERENCES
1. I.Clarke,O.Sandberg,B.Wiley,andT.Hong,“Freenet: Adistributedanonymousinformationstorageand
retrievalsystem,”in ProceedingsoftheICSIWorkshoponDesignIssuesinAnonymityandUnobservability ,
(Berkeley,CA),2000.
2. P.DruschelandA.Rowstron,“Past: Alarge-scale,persistentpeer-to-peerstorageutility,”in Proceedingsof
theEighthIEEEWorkshoponHotTopicsinOperatingSystems(HotOS-VIII) ,(SchossElmau,Germany),
May2001.
3. S.Ratnasamy,P.Francis,M.Handley,R.Karp,andS.Shenker,“Ascalablecontent-addressablenetwork,”
inProceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM2001 Technical Conference,(SanDiego,CA,USA),August2001.
4. I.Stoica,R.Morris,D.Karger,F.Kaashoek,andH.Balakrishnan,“Chord: Ascalablecontent-addressable
network,” inProceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM2001 Technical Conference, (San Diego, CA, USA),
August2001.
5. M. Waldman, A. Rubin, and L. Cranor, “Publius: A robust, tamper-evident, censorship-resistant, web
publishingsystem,”in Proceedings of the 9th USENIX Security Symposium,August2000.
6. B.Zhao,K.Kubiatowicz,andA.Joseph,“Tapestry: Aninfrastructureforfault-resilientwide-arealocation
androuting,”Tech.Rep.UCB//CSD-01-1141,UniversityofCaliforniaatBerkeleyTechnicalReport,April
2001.
7. E.AdarandB.Huberman,“Freeridingongnutella,” First Monday5,October2000.
8. Clip2,“Gnutellameasurementproject,”May2001. http://www.clip2.com/.
9. S. Savage, “Sting: a TCP-based Network Measurement Tool,” inProceedings of the1999 USENIX Sym-
posium on Internet Technologies and Systems (USITS ’99),October1999.
10. V.Jacobson,“pathchar.” http://www.caida.org/tools/utilities/others/pathchar/,1997.
11. B. A. Mah, “pchar: A tool for measuring internet path characteristics.”http://www.employees.org/
~bmah/Software/pchar/,2001.
12. R.Carter,“Cprobeandbprobetools.” http://cs-people.bu.edu/carter/tools/Tools.html,1996.
13. K. Lai and M. Baker, “Nettimer: A tool for measuring bottleneck link bandwidth,” inProceedings of the
3rd USENIX Symposium on Internet Technologies and Systems,March2001.
14. S. Saroiu, P. K. Gummadi, and S. D. Gribble, “Sprobe: A fast technique for measuring bottleneck band-
widthinuncooperativeenvironments,”in Submitted to Infocom 2002 Technical Conference,2002.
15. 3Com,“3comv.90technology,”1998. http://www.3com.com/technology/tech_net/white_papers/pdf/
50065901.pdf.
16. D.Roselli,J.Lorch,andT.Anderson,“Acomparisonofﬁlesystemworkloads,”in Proceedings of the2000
USENIX Annual Technical Conference,(SanDiego,CA,USA),June2000.
17. A.Barab´asiandR.Albert,“Emergenceofscalinginrandomnetworks,” Science286,pp.509–512,1999.
18. R. Cohen, K. Erez, D. ben Avraham, and S. Havlin, “Resilience of the internet to random breakdowns,”
Physical Review Letters85,November2000.