The Impact of DHT Routing Geometry on Resilience and
Proximity
K. Gummadi∗, R. Gummadi†,S .G r i b b l e‡, S. Ratnasamy§, S. Shenker¶, I. Stoica‖,
∗
ABSTRACT
The various proposed DHT routing algorithms embody sev-
eral diﬀerent underlying routinggeometries. These geome-
tries includehypercubes, rings, tree-like structures, andbut-
terﬂy networks. In this paper we focus on how these ba-
sic geometric approaches aﬀect the resilience and proximity
properties of DHTs. One factor that distinguishes these
geometries is the degree ofﬂexibility they provide in the se-
lection of neighbors and routes. Flexibility is an important
factor in achieving good static resilience and eﬀective prox-
imityneighborandrouteselection. Ourbasicﬁndingisthat,
despite our initial preference for more complexgeometries,
the ring geometry allows the greatest ﬂexibility, and hence
achieves the best resilience and proximity performance.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
C.2[ Computer Systems Organisation]: ComputerCom-
munication Networks
General Terms
Algorithms, Performance
Keywords
DHT, Routing Geometry, Flexibility
∗University of Washington.gummadi@cs.washington.edu
†USC, Los Angeles.gummadi@usc.edu
‡University of Washington.gribble@cs.washington.edu
§Intel Research, Berkeley.sylvia@intel-research.net
¶ICSI, Berkeley. shenker@icsi.berkeley.edu
‖UC Berkeley. istoica@cs.berkeley.edu∗This work is supported in part by NSF grants CCR-
0121341, ITR-0085670, IIS-0205635, ANI-0196514, ANI-
0207399, ITR-0205519, ITR-0081698, ITR-0121555, ANI-
00225660, ANI-0133811 and Stoica’s Sloan Foundation Fel-
lowship.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are
not made or distributed for proﬁt or commercial advantage and that copies
bear this notice and the full citation on the ﬁrst page. To copy otherwise, to
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speciﬁc
permission and/or a fee.
SIGCOMM’03,August 25–29, 2003, Karlsruhe, Germany.
Copyright 2003 ACM 1-58113-735-4/03/0008 ...$5.00.
1. INTRODUCTION
The unexpected and unprecedented explosion of peer-to-
peer ﬁle-sharing, ignited by Napster and refueled by a suc-
cession of less legally vulnerable successors (e.g., Gnutella,
Kazaa), inspired the development of distributed hash ta-
bles (DHTs). DHTs oﬀer a promising combination of ex-
treme scalability (scaling typically as logn) and useful se-
mantics (supporting a hash-table-likelookupinterface), and
have been proposed as a substrate for many large-scale dis-
tributed applications (see, for example, [5, 12, 22]).
Our focus here is not on the uses of DHTs but on the un-
derlying DHT routing algorithms. A wide variety of DHT
routing algorithms have been proposed, and the list grows
longer with each passing conference. However, the DHT
routing literature is still very much in its infancy; as a re-
sult, most DHT routing papers describe new algorithms and
very few provide more general insightacross algorithms or
usefully comparebetweenalgorithms.
In this paper we attempt to take a very small step in this
direction by looking at the basicgeometry underlying DHT
routing algorithms and how it impacts their performance in
twoimportant areas: static resilience and proximityrouting.
While the current collection of DHT routing algorithms dif-
fersinmanyrespects, perhapsthemostfundamentaldistinc-
tion between them lies in their diﬀerent routing geometries.
For instance, CAN [19] (when the dimension is taken to be
log n) routes along a hypercube, Chord [25] routes along
a ring, Viceroy [14] uses a butterﬂy network, and PRR’s
algorithm [16] uses a tree-like structure. These geometries
have diﬀering degrees ofﬂexibility in choosing neighbors and
next-hop paths. The importance of geometry, and the re-
sulting ﬂexibility,isn’t clear when looking only at thetypical
metrics of concern – state (the number of neighbors) and ef-
ﬁciency (the average path length) – because many of these
algorithms can achieve the same state/eﬃciency trade oﬀs.
However, geometry (and ﬂexibility) becomes more relevant
when looking at other performance issues.
One of the crucial questions facing DHTs is whether they
can operate in an extremely transient environment where a
signiﬁcant fraction of the nodes are down at any one time.
There are many facets to this issue, most notably the speed
and overhead of recovery algorithms, but one relatively (but
not completely; see [13, 22]) unexplored area is static re-
silience, which is how well the DHT can route even before
the recovery algorithms have had a chance to work their
magic. We discuss this issue in Section 3.
Another crucial question is how well DHTs can adapt to
the underlying Internet topology. Much research has been
381 

devoted to incorporatingproximity into DHT routing pro-
tocols, and there are two areas of concern. The ﬁrst is the
total latency of the DHT routing path, which should be no
more than a small multiple of the underlying Internet la-
tency. We discuss path latency in Section 4. The second is
whether such paths converge; the various tasks of providing
eﬃcient caching, building parsimonious multicast trees, and
ﬁnding the closest server out of many are all made easier if
DHT routing paths have alocal convergenceproperty that
we explore in Section 5.
Ourpaperexaminestheextenttowhichgeometryimpacts
the performance in these two areas, and thus we begin our
paper by discussing geometry in Section 2. However, before
embarking on this discussion, which we hope provides some
insight, we readily confess that our paper is a very initial
stab at the problem and is undoubtedly incomplete. Our
various sins include (1) only picking a few, not all, of the
currently proposed DHT routing algorithms, (2) not consid-
ering factors, such as symmetry, that may aﬀect the state
management overhead and (3) only focusing on two perfor-
mance issues (resilience and proximity), and not considering
interactions between these various properties. Rectifying
these omissions is the subject of future work.
2. GEOMETRIES AND ALGORITHMS
To provide context for the technical material to follow,
we ﬁrst discuss the philosophy that motivates this work. As
noted before, there are a myriad of DHT designs in the liter-
ature, all extensively analyzed and energetically promoted.
However, we envision that there will be only one or a few
very large-scale DHT infrastructures. Thus, out of the cor-
nucopia of routing choices we must select one (or a few) on
which to build future systems. The question is: how do we
make that choice?
One approach is to view these systems as complete coher-
ent proposals and have abake-oﬀ among them, comparing
their performance in real-world situations. Thisblack-box
approach, which is taken in [1, 24] and elsewhere, compares
the designs as turn-key systems. While this provides per-
formance comparisons for a ﬁxed set of designs and a given
environment, itdoesn’t providemuchguidance for designing
new DHTs. A very diﬀerent approach is to view each pro-
posal as a set of somewhat independent design choices and
to evaluate the wisdom of each design choice in the hope
that this insight will eventually lead to a superior hybrid
design. This paper adopts the latter approach. Thus, we
do not intend our observations to be rankings of the current
DHT proposals, but rather to be hints about how one might
better design a future DHT routing algorithm.
2.1 Geometries
One can roughly divide DHT design issues into two cate-
gories:
Routing-level Thiscategoryisconﬁnedtotwowell-deﬁned
issues: neighbor selection – how one picks the set of
neighbors for a node – and route selection – how one
chooses the next hop when routing a message. These
choices determine what we call theroutingbehavior of
aD H T .
System-level Thiscategorycontainseverythingelse. These
are higher-level design decisions that apply across all
routing-level choices. Examples of system-level issues
are caching and replication and whether the actual de-
livery of messages is done iteratively or recursively.
Routing-levelandsystem-levelchoicesarenotalwayscom-
pletelyindependent,inthatsomerouting-leveldesignchoices
aﬀect the feasibility or performance of a system-level design
choice, but often they are largely orthogonal and should be
treated as such.
Another useful distinction is between the routingalgo-
rithm and the routinggeometry.
Algorithm This refers to the precise details of how neigh-
bors and next-hops are chosen. Any change in these
details is a change in the routing algorithm.
Geometry This is not a precise term, and we present no
formal deﬁnition, but often the way in which neigh-
bors and routes are chosen has a compelling geomet-
ric interpretation. Conversely, the choice of a routing
geometry constrains the way in which neighbor and
routing choices are made. Small changes to the rout-
ing algorithm do not change the underlying routing
geometry.
Our work here focuses on the impact of routing geome-
try, rather than on the particular algorithmic details. As
noted earlier, most of the current DHT routing proposals
have very clear geometric interpretations. The question is
which properties of these various DHT routing algorithms
derive from their basic choice of geometry, and which can
be altered by small algorithmic changes. Understanding the
constraints and possibilities inherent in an underlying rout-
ing geometry will help guide us when designing future DHT
routing algorithms.
Note that all of these geometries are capable of providing
O(log n) path lengths withO(log n) neighbors (and Viceroy
can improve that toO(1) neighbors). Thus, we don’t focus
on how geometry eﬀects space and eﬃciency. We instead
notethatthesegeometriesplaceverydiﬀerentconstraintson
route and neighbor selection. The resulting varying degrees
of ﬂexibility each geometry provides has signiﬁcant impact
on the resilience and proximity properties of thesystem. We
now discuss ﬂexibility in somewhat greater depth.
2.2 Flexibility
Flexibility is nothing more than the algorithmic freedom
left after the basic routing geometry has been chosen. This
freedom is exercised in the selection of neighbors and routes.
We discuss these issues in turn:
2.2.1 Neighbor Selection
DHTs have a routing table comprised of neighbors. In
the original set of DHT proposals, some algorithms made
this choice of neighbors purely deterministic (i.e., given the
set of identiﬁers in the system, the neighbor tables were
completely determined), and others allowed some freedom
to choose neighbors based on other criteria in addition to
the identiﬁers; most notably, proximity (i.e., latencies) have
been used to select neighbors. However, the question is
not whether the initial proposal included this feature, but
whether the basic routing geometry precludes it. That is,
if the routing geometry precludes choosing neighbors based
on proximity, then that it is a true loss of ﬂexibility; if the
routing geometry allows such a choice, then the omission is
merely a small algorithmic detail that can be changed.
382 

Several DHT proposals make use of what we will callse-
quential neighbors. These are neighbors to which one can
route and be sure of making progress towardsall destina-
tions. The leafset in Pastry and the successors in Chord
are examples of sequential neighbors. Some geometries nat-
urally support such sequential neighbors, and some don’t.
Since such neighbors play a crucial role in recovery algo-
rithms, several DHT proposals whose basic geometries don’t
naturallysupportsequentialneighborshaveaugmentedtheir
design to include them. The result is a somewhathybrid ge-
ometry.
2.2.2 Route Selection
Given a set of neighbors, and a destination, the routing
algorithm determines the choice of the next hop. However,
ﬂexibility is relevant here, for two reasons. First, when the
determined next-hopis down, ﬂexibility describes howmany
other options are there for the next-hop. If there are none,
or only a few, then the routing algorithm is likely to fare
poorly under high failure rates.
Second, analogous tochoosingneighborsbasedonproxim-
ity, one might want to choose next hops based on proximity.
To some extent, this reﬂects the same degree of freedom al-
luded to above (for picking other options under failure) but
it arises in a diﬀerent context.
2.3 Algorithms
We now discuss some basic routing geometries. We do so
by reviewing several DHTs and describing how their rout-
ing algorithm can be interpreted geometrically. We make
special note of the ﬂexibility in neighbor and route selection
provided by these diﬀerent geometries. However, it is im-
portant to note that we consider such ﬂexibility only when
it can be exercised without signiﬁcantly altering the state-
eﬃciency tradeoﬀ for thatgeometry. For instance, for Chord
we could pickO(n) neighbors and choose routes withO(n)
path lengths with a spectacular degree of ﬂexibility but that
would not represent a desirable design.
In the discussion that follows, we assume systems withn
nodes and logn bit node identiﬁers. In practice, these al-
gorithms typically use logN bit identiﬁers where N ≫ n,
so the identiﬁer space is not wholly populated by nodes,
but for clarity and conciseness we assume wholly populated
identiﬁer spaces in the following discussion. Likewise, our
description treats identiﬁersas binary strings butinpractice
they will be to some baseb. Neither of these assumptions
will aﬀect the correctness of our comments, but both will
help facilitate thepresentation.1 Finally, we abuseterminol-
ogy and frequently use the term node to refer to the node’s
identiﬁer.
We consider the following DHTs: PRR [16], CAN [19, 18],
Chord [25], Viceroy [14], Pastry [22] and Kademlia [15]. For
reasons of space and time, there are many algorithms that
wedonotconsider, amongthembeingTapestry[28](though
our discussion of PRR should mostly apply to Tapestry as
well), a recent de Bruijn inspired algorithm [6], and a ran-
domized algorithm due to Kleinberg [11].
1Our simulation results, presented later in the paper, do not
assume dense identiﬁer space. However, they all use base 2
to allow us to work with reasonable path lengths (typically
6-8 hops); clearly however, our results would be less relevant
for DHTs with very short paths of 1-2 hops [7].
2.3.1 Tree
The tree’s hierarchical organization makes it a likely can-
didate for eﬃcient routing, and in fact it is the geometry un-
derlying PRR’s algorithm, which is perhaps the ﬁrst DHT
routingalgorithm. Thebasic routingalgorithms inTapestry
and Pastry are both rather similar in spirit to this original
algorithm although Pastry (as we describe later) also uses a
ring-like geometry in addition to the tree. In a tree geome-
try, node identiﬁersconstitute theleaf nodes in a binary tree
of depth logn; the “distance” between any two nodes is the
height of their smallest common subtree. Each node holds
log n neighbors, where theith neighbor is at distancei from
the given node and routing works by greedy routing towards
the destination. In other words, a node has neighbor nodes
that match each preﬁxof its own identiﬁer but diﬀer in the
next bit. Routing is achieved by successively “correcting”
the highest order bit on which the forwarding node diﬀers
from the destination, eﬀectively increasing the length of the
longest preﬁxmatch by one at each hop.
We make the following observation on the ﬂexibility a
node has in choosing its neighbors: any given node has
2i−1 options in choosing a neighbor at distancei from it-
self, corresponding to the subtree of nodes that share the
ﬁrst log n − i bits with the given node but diﬀer on the
log n − i + 1 bit. Thus, these “unconstrained” lower or-
der bits give a great deal of freedom in choosing neighbors,
with the amount of freedom increasing exponentially with
increasing distance i. This yields a total of approximately
n(log n)/2(= Πlog n
i=1 2i) possible routing tables per node. Of
course, a node will choose exactly one of these possible rout-
ing tables.
We now consider routing ﬂexibility. Given a particular
choice of routing table, how much ﬂexibility does a node
have in selecting the next hop to a given destination? We
observe that in a tree, a node has only one neighbor that re-
duces the distance to the destination;i.e., only one neighbor
can increase the length of the longest preﬁxmatch. Thus,
in contrast to the generous ﬂexibility in choosing neighbors,
a tree oﬀersno ﬂexibility in route selection.
2.3.2 Hypercube
The routing used in CAN resembles a hypercube geome-
try. CAN uses ad-torus that is partitioned amongst nodes
such that every node “owns” a distinct zone within the
space. As explained in [18], a CAN node’s identiﬁer is a
binary string representing its position in the space. When
d =l o gn dimensions the neighbor sets in CAN are exactly
those of a logn-dimensional hypercube.2 Each node has
log n neighbors; neighbor i diﬀers from the given node on
only the ith bit. The “distance” between two nodes is the
number of bits on which their identiﬁers diﬀer and routing
works by greedy forwarding to reduce this distance. Thus
routing is eﬀectively achieved by “correcting” bits on which
forwarding nodediﬀers from the destination. The key diﬀer-
ence between routing on the hypercube and the tree is that
the hypercube allows bits to be corrected in any order while
on the tree bits have to be corrected in strictly left-to-right
order. The reason the hypercube can use out-of-order bit
2This hypercube-like interpretation of CAN is also extend-
able to d< log n; however, for the purposes of this paper
we restrict ourselves to the case where CAN has logn di-
mensions and routes in logn hops so that it is more directly
comparable to the other DHTs.
383 

ﬁxing is because, unlike on the tree, a node’s neighbor only
diﬀers from itself on a single bit and hence previous correc-
tions of lower order bits are maintained as higher order bits
are corrected. Thus, the hypercube oﬀers greater ﬂexibility
in route selection. Speciﬁcally, in routing from a source to
destination that are at a distance of logn, the ﬁrst node
has logn next hop choices, the second node has logn − 1
choices, and so on yielding a total of approximately (logn)!
routes between two nodes. Note that each of these paths is
of the same length – they only diﬀer on theorder in which
destination bits were ﬁxed. The hypercube however pays a
price for this ﬂexibility in route selection. Because a node’s
neighbors diﬀer from itself on exactly one bit, it has only
one possible choice for each of its neighbors. Thus a node
has no ﬂexibility in selecting its neighbors. This is the oppo-
site of what occurs with the tree, which has much neighbor
selection ﬂexibility but no route selection ﬂexibility.
2.3.3 Butterﬂy
The Viceroy algorithm emulates the operation of a tra-
ditional butterﬂy network but adapts this structure to be
self-organizing and robust in the face of node arrivals and
departures. Viceroy improves on the state-eﬃciency trade-
oﬀ of previously proposed DHTs by routing inO(log n)h o p s
with constant state at each node. The details of Viceroy are
fairly involved, so we only provide a very sketchy overview.
In a traditional butterﬂy, the nodes are organized in a series
of log n “stages” where all the nodes at stagei are capa-
ble of (essentially) correcting the ith bit in the identiﬁer.
To ensure correctness in the face of node dynamics, Viceroy
imposes a global ordering on all the nodes in the system
and requires each node to hold, as neighbors, its immedi-
ate successor and predecessor in this ordering. A node also
holds, as neighbors, its immediate successor and predeces-
sor from among the nodes in its own stage. Viceroy routing
consists of three phases: theﬁrst usesO(log n)h o p st om o v e
up to the ﬁrst stage, the second uses anotherO(log n)h o p s
to traverse down the stages until it reaches the vicinity of
the destination at which point routing enters its third phase
and uses the successor/predecessor neighbors to reach the
destination in aO(log n) additional hops. We note that this
ﬁnal routing phase, which usesO(log n) hops, does not per-
mit ﬂexibility in either route or neighbor selection. Thus,
while the butterﬂy achieves greater eﬃciency than the other
DHTs we consider, it results in far less ﬂexibility. We stress
that this is not a “ﬂaw” in the particular Viceroy design;
rather, we conjecture that this limitation is fundamental to
constant state algorithms.3
2.3.4 Ring
In a Ring geometry, nodes lie on a one-dimensional cyclic
identiﬁer space on which the “distance” from an identiﬁer
A to B is calculated as the clockwise numeric distance from
At oBo nt h ec i r c l e .4 Chord embodies such a ring geome-
3Moreover, there are likely ways to restore some ﬂexibility
by keeping more state, but making that state less “critical”
to the operation of the algorithm (and hence not imposing
the same recovery requirement as the critical state). This is
the subject of future work, and we do not pursue it here.
4Diﬀerent ring-based DHTs measure distance on the ring
in slightly diﬀerent ways; Chord uses the clockwise distance
while Viceroy uses the minimum of the clockwise and anti-
clockwise distance. This diﬀerence only changes the con-
stants in our ﬂexibility bounds.
try. In Chord, a node with identiﬁer (say)a maintains logn
neighbors (called ﬁngers) where theith neighbor is the node
closest to a +2 i on the circle. Hence, a node can route
to an arbitrary destination in logn hops because each hop
cuts the distance to the destination by half. Although the
original Chord proposal deﬁnes a speciﬁc set of neighbors
for a given node identiﬁer, this rigidity in neighbor selection
is in no way fundamental to a ring geometry.5 Speciﬁcally,
routing on a ring can be achieved inO(log n)h o p se v e ni f
node a were to pick itsith neighbor as any node in the range
[(a +2 i),(a +2 i+1)] rather than the exact node closest to
a+2 i on the circle as originally deﬁned by Chord. This im-
plies that in terms of the ﬂexibility of neighbor selection, a
ring geometry (like the tree) has 2i possible options in pick-
ing its ith neighbor for a total of approximatelyn(log n)/2
possible routing tables for each node. Having selected one
of its possible routing tables, we examine the ﬂexibility in
routeselectionnowavailabletothenodeintermsofwhichof
its neighbors make progress towards a destination. For two
nodes that are initiallyO(n) distance apart, the ﬁrst node
has approximately logn of its neighbors that make progress
towards the destination. After the ﬁrst hop, the next node
will haveapproximately (logn)−1 possible next hopsand so
on to yield a total of approximately (logn)! possible routes
for a typical path. Note that all these paths respect the
eﬃciency bound of O(log n) hops. This is because routing
from the source to destination uses logn hops that span ex-
ponentially diﬀerent distances – while greedy routing takes
these hops in the decreasing order of their spans, any path
that takes each of the diﬀerentspans just once will reach the
destination in logn hops irrespective of the order in which
the spans are taken. Later, in section 4.1, we will deﬁne a
rule that allows Chord to take each of these diﬀerent spans
just once without imposing any order.
While our discussion above is limited to paths that are
bounded by logn hops, Chord also allows paths that are
much longer than logn. This is accomplished by taking
multiple hops of smaller spans instead of a single hop of
large span. For example, one could take two successive hops
using i −1th neighbors of span 2i−1 each instead of a single
hop using ith neighbor of span 2i.
2.3.5 XOR
Kademlia[15] deﬁnesanovelroutingmetric–thedistance
between two nodes is the numeric value of the exclusiveOR
(XOR)of theiridentiﬁers. Forlack of amore intuitivename,
we use the term XOR geometry to refer to the geometry in-
terpretation yielded by this XOR metric. A Kademlia node
picks logn neighbors, where the ith neighbor is any node
within an XOR distance of [2i,2i+1] from itself. Examina-
tion of theabovedeﬁnition ofneighbors revealsthat Kadem-
lia’s routing table permits exactly the same routing entries
as for tree geometries such as PRR. Moreover, by routing
greedily on the XOR metric, Kademlia chooses exactly the
same routes as PRR when the routing table is fully popu-
lated (i.e., no failures); successive hops “ﬁx” bits from left
to right. Under failures, however, Kademlia behaves diﬀer-
ently since, unlike on the tree, even if a node cannot ﬁxthe
highest diﬀering bit it can still make progress in the XOR
distance to the destination, eﬀectively ﬁxing a lower order
5This is a fairly well recognized fact in the DHT community
and by the developers of Chord, and we do not claim to be
t h eﬁ r s tt om a k et h i so b s e r v a t i o n .
384 

property
 tree
 hypercube
 ring
 butterﬂy
 xor
 hybrid
Neighbor Selection
 nlog n/2
 1
 nlog n/2
 1
 nlog n/2
 nlog n/2
Route Selection (optimal paths)
 1
 c1(log n)
 c1(log n)
 1
 1
 1
Route Selection (non-optimal paths)
 -
 -
 2c2(log n)
 -
 c2(log n)
 c2(log n)
Natural support for
 no
 no
 yes
 no
 no
 Default routing: no
sequential neighbors?
 Fallback routing: yes
Table 1: The neighbor and route selection ﬂexibility at any node in various routing geometries. c1 and c2 are
small constants.
bit. Thus, multiple paths exist between a source and desti-
nation, but these paths arenot of equal lengths. This stems
from the fact that the distance of a node’s neighbors with
respect to the node have little bearing on their distance to
thedestination. Intuitively,eventhoughKademliaoﬀersthe
ﬂexibility of ﬁxing lower order bits before higher ones, the
lower order ﬁxed bit need not be preserved by later routing
hops that ﬁxhigher order bits.
2.3.6 Hybrid
S of a rw eh a v eo n l yp r e s e n t e dpure geometric interpre-
tations. However, some routing algorithms employ dual
modes, where each mode inspires a diﬀerentgeometric inter-
pretation; we call thesehybrid geometries. We use Pastry
as our canonical example of a hybrid geometry because it
c o m b i n e st h eu s eo fat r e eg e o m e t r yw i t ht h a to far i n gg e -
ometry. Node identiﬁers are regarded as both the leaves of
a binary tree and as points on a one-dimensional circle. In
Pastry, the “distance” between a given pair of nodes is thus
computedin twodiﬀerentways–theﬁrstisthetreedistance
between them, the second is the cyclic numeric distance be-
tween them. By default, Pastry uses the tree distance as its
metric for routing and only falls back to using the ring ge-
ometry when the tree-based routing fails. Thus, its freedom
of neighbor selection is the same as Tree geometries. The
route selection ﬂexibility is more subtle. The hybrid geome-
try allows one to take hops that do not make progress on the
tree but do make progress on the ring; these paths however
do not necessarily retain the logn bound on the number of
hops.6
While we use Pastry as our canonical example, we point
out that other DHTs can, and do, make use of a similar
hybrid geometry, which we now discuss.
As mentioned earlier, sequential neighbors are those that
make progress towardsall destination identiﬁers. This re-
quires a single global ordering on the distances between
nodes, and thus the ring is the only geometry that natu-
rally supports sequential neighbors. However, several of the
designs can be augmented to include sequential neighbors,
especially for recovery, essentially by deﬁning a separate or-
dering (aside from the ordering used for normal routing). In
particular, Viceroy and CAN (see [18]) have incorporated
sequential neighbors. They are examples, like Pastry, of
hybrid geometries. Our evaluation in this paper will ex-
plore the extent to which sequential neighbors, both nat-
6One might argue that even on the tree, similar multiple
paths exist if we were to allow “sideways” hops that main-
tain, but do not increase, the length of the longest preﬁx
matched. However this would require some rule to prevent
looping which would require an ordering of nodes that share
the same preﬁx. This is precisely what Pastry achieves in
deﬁning a second distance metric.
urally supported and artiﬁcially added, improve proximity
and resilience.
Table1 summarizes ourdiscussiononthediﬀerentrouting
geometries and their ﬂexibility. Note that we enter slightly
diﬀerent constants for the ﬂexibility in route selection for
thediﬀerent geometries. Speciﬁcally, we claim that theRing
and Hypercube have twice the ﬂexibility in route selection
compared to the Hybrid and XOR geometries.7 Our simu-
lation results in later sections validate this diﬀerence.
3. STATIC RESILIENCE
Oneof thereasons DHTsare seen as an excellent platform
for large scale distributed systems is that they are resilient
in the presence of node failures. This resilience has three
diﬀerent aspects, only one of which we explore here:
Data replication: When nodes fail, the data (or pointers)
they are holding go with them. Measures must be
takensothatthisdoesn’t resultin thelossofdatafrom
the system as a whole. Several (complementary) ap-
proaches have been proposed, most notably data repli-
cation [3, 4]. In our discussion, we assume that the
degree of replication is adequate to prevent data loss,
so the remaining question is whether one canroute in
the presence of failures.
Routing recovery: When failures occur, they deplete the
routing tables in the remaining nodes. Recovery algo-
rithms are used to repopulate the routing tables with
live nodes, so that routing can continue unabated.
Static resilience: However, the recovery algorithms take
some time to restore the routing tables, so one should
still ask how well DHTs can routebeforerouting state
is restored. We call thisstatic resiliencebecause we
keep the routing table static, except for deleting failed
nodes, and ask how well routing performs. Hence,
static resilience measures the extent to which DHTs
can route around trouble even without the aid of re-
covery mechanisms that ﬁxtrouble. Thus, static re-
silience gives a measure of how quickly the recovery
algorithm has to work; DHTs with low static resilience
require much faster recovery algorithms to be similarly
robust.
7To see why this is true, consider a node on the ring routing
to a destination at a distance between [2i,2i+1]f r o mi t s e l f ;
for this node all of its ﬁrst i neighbors make progress to
the destination. Likewise, on the Hypercube, if a node dif-
fers from the destination onk bits then itsk corresponding
neighbors all make progress. In the Hybrid and XOR how-
ever, given a destination at a distance of between [2i,2i+1],
an o d e ’ sith neighbor will only make progress if itsith bit
diﬀersfromthedestination’swhichisonlytruehalfthetime.
385 

While several papers consider resilience in the presence
of active recovery algorithms, only a few examine static re-
silience. References[18, 22] addressthisissue inthecontexts
of CAN and Pastry respectively, while some recent work in
reference [13] examines how certain graph theoretic proper-
ties of a overlay structure aﬀect its static resilience.
Routing
 Average
 Median
 90 Percentile
Geometry
 Hopcount
 Hopcount
 Hopcount
XOR
 7.7
 8
 10
Ring
 7.4
 7
 10
Tree
 7.7
 8
 10
Butterﬂy
 21.4
 21
 28
Hypercube
 7.7
 8
 10
Hybrid
 7.7
 8
 10
Table 2: Comparing the hopcounts for diﬀerent
DHTs over a 65,536 node network with no failures.
To test for static resilience, we use a 65,536 node network.
We allow diﬀerent DHTs to populate their routing tables,
ensuring that all the geometries (with the exception of the
Butterﬂy8) store the same amount of state (number of the
routing table entries) at any node. As shown in Table 2, the
performance of the geometries (with the exception of the
Butterﬂy) are very similar when there are no node failures.
We now let some ﬁxed fraction of uniformly chosen nodes
fail and remove the entries corresponding to the failed nodes
from the routing tables. We then try to route from each live
node to every other live node and ask how often the routing
can succeed. In particular, we look at two metrics:
• % paths failed: this describes how often routing was
not able to connect two live nodes.
• % increase in path length : this describes the in-
crease in path length, compared to the path length
when there are no failed nodes.
In what follows, we consider the algorithms based on the
following routing geometries: XOR, Ring, Tree, Butterﬂy,
Hypercube, and Hybrid.
3.1 Performance Results
In this section, we discuss three questions:
Question #1: How does the static resilience of various
geometries compare?The left graph in Figure 1 shows the
results for % of failed paths as the % of failed nodes is var-
ied. The results are very consistent with the degree of route
selection ﬂexibility in each geometry (see Table 1). The
Tree and Butterﬂy have no route selection ﬂexibility, and
their resilience is quite poor; when 30% of the nodes have
failed, almost 90% of their paths have failed. To the other
extreme, the Ring and Hypercube geometries have the most
ﬂexibility in route selection, and their resilience is signiﬁ-
cantly better; when the same 30% of nodes are failed, under
7% of the routes have failed.9 Intermediate between these
two cases are the Hybrid and XOR geometries, which have
8Unlike other DHTs, the amount of state stored by a But-
terﬂy node is always a constant and cannot be controlled.
9Ring performs better than Hypercube as even though they
have the same number of logn length paths, Ring has many
alternate paths that are longer than logn, while Hypercube
has none.
about half the number of alternate paths (and hence, half
the routing ﬂexibility) that the Ring and Hypercube have.
Their resilience is correspondingly inferior to the Ring and
Hypercube, but far superior to the Tree andButterﬂy; when
the same 30% of nodes are failed, about 20% of routes have
failed.
The right graph in Figure 1 shows the results for % in-
crease in the average path lengths (orpath stretch)a st h e
% of failed nodes is varied. The path stretch of the Hyper-
cube is minimal, consistent with our observation that all its
alternative paths are of equal length. Ring suﬀers interme-
diate path stretch as some of its alternate paths are longer
thantherest. All theothergeometries incursigniﬁcant path
stretch because they have only longer alternate paths. The
path stretch decreases as a large fraction of the nodes fail
because very few routes succeed at high node failure rates,
and those that succeed are very short.
Question #2:Howdoestheadditionofsequentialneigh-
bors aﬀect the static resilience of various geometries?The
previous results did not include sequential neighbors. In
Figure 2, we consider what happenswhen we add 16 sequen-
tial neighbors to the various algorithms. We eliminate the
XOR geometry because it doesn’t support sequential neigh-
bors, and the Tree is not included because it is represented
by Hybrid. The most obvious result here is that sequen-
tial neighbors greatly increase resilience to path failures; no
path failures are seen in any geometry even when 30% of
the nodes have been failed. This suggests that DHTs, when
equipped with sequential neighbors, can route successfully
even under high node failure rates. The Ring performs sig-
niﬁcantly better than the Hypercube and others whose se-
quential neighbors are artiﬁcially grafted on. However, the
increase in resilience to path failures comes at the cost of
path stretch. All the algorithms suﬀer signiﬁcantly greater
path stretch (now that the Hypercube has sequential neigh-
bors, not all paths are of equal lengths).
Question #3: Aresequentialneighborsbetterthanregu-
larneighborsforensuringstaticresilience? While the previ-
ous results were speciﬁc to sequential neighbors, one could
conjecture that increased resiliency could equally well be
achieved just by increasing the total number of neighbors
without insisting that they be sequential. Thus, we now ask
whethersequentialneighborsare especially usefulin increas-
ing resilience. We do this by considering the Ring geome-
try and compare cases where the total number of sequential
and regular neighbors are the same, but the number of se-
quential neighbors are diﬀerent. The results are shown in
Figure 3. The left graph in the ﬁgure indicates that at high
node failure rates, sequential neighbors are better than reg-
ular neighbors at increasing resilience to path failures but,
the right graph indicates that they can lead to signiﬁcantly
longer paths (note that the Y-axis of the right graph shows
path hop-countsand not pathstretch). Hence, the use of se-
quential neighbors might be the preferred option if one were
only concerned with routing success and not other metrics
such as the total path latency.
Tosummarize, ourresultsconﬁrmthatthestaticresilience
ofageometry islargely determinedbytheamountofrouting
ﬂexibility it oﬀers. Thus, the Ring which has the greatest
routing ﬂexibility has the highest resilience, while Tree and
Butterﬂy which have the least ﬂexibility in routing have the
least resilience. Further,theadditionofsequentialneighbors
can make DHTs signiﬁcantly more resistant to path fail-
386 

0
20
40
60
80
100
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
Failed paths (%)
Failed nodes (%)
XOR
Ring
Tree
Butterfly
Hypercube
Hybrid 0
20
40
60
80
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
Increase in Avg. path hop-counts (%)
Failed nodes (%)
XOR
Ring
Tree
Hypercube
Hybrid
Figure 1: Left: Percentage of failed paths for varying percentages of node failures across diﬀerent routing
geometries.Right: Percent increase in average path hop-counts of successful paths for varying percentages of
node failures across diﬀerent routing geometries.The Butterﬂy is left oﬀ of this graph because so few routes
are usable, and those that are sometimes take shorter paths than the original ones, resulting in a negative
path stretch.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
Failed paths (%)
Failed nodes (%)
Ring
Hypercube
Butterfly
Hybrid
0
50
100
150
200
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
Increase in Avg path hop counts (%)
Failed nodes (%)
Ring
Hybrid
Hypercube
Figure 2: Left: Percentage of failed paths for varying percentages of node failures across diﬀerent routing
geometries.Right: Percent increase in average path hop-counts of successful paths for varying percentages of
node failures across diﬀerent routing geometries.Butterﬂy is left oﬀ of this graph because its path increase
is so much higher than the others, reaching 700%, that it would distort the y-axis.All algorithms use 16
sequential neighbors.
ures, though path stretch can get much worse. Finally, for
the Ring topologies, replacing additional sequential neigh-
bors with regular neighbors yields a similar, but smaller, in-
creased resistance to path failures but a much smaller path
latency.
4. PATH LATENCY
DHTs are designed to provide eﬃcient routing as mea-
sured in terms of hopcount (the number of overlay hops be-
tween the source node and the destination node). While
hopcount is an important metric for measuring the pro-
cessing and bandwidth requirements at the peers, it does
not adequately address the issue of end-to-end latency be-
cause each overlay hop could potentially involve signiﬁcant
delays (intercontinental links, satellite links, etc.). As a re-
sult, there has been much recent eﬀort to reduce end-to-end
latencies inDHT routing algorithms by considering therela-
tiveproximityof overlay nodes (i.e., the IP latency between
them) [2, 8, 9, 10, 16, 21, 27]. The proposed methods fall
into three broad categories, two of which we consider here.
Proximity Neighbor Selection (PNS): Theneighborsin
the routing table are chosen based on their proximity.
Proximity Route Selection (PRS): Oncetheroutingta-
ble is chosen, the choice of next-hop when routing to
a particular destination depends on the proximity of
the neighbors.
Proximity identiﬁer Selection (PIS): Asexploredin[21],
one can pick the node identiﬁers based on their ge-
ographic location. Since this makes load balancing
hard, and increases the likelihood of correlated fail-
ures, we don’t discuss this method here.
We thus consider the two proximity methods PNS and
PRS. The section begins with a short description of these
methods, and the rest of the section is devoted to their anal-
ysis. While our evaluation is based on recursive (as opposed
to iterative [3]) routing, we believe that our key conclusions
regarding the relative performance of PNS and PRS hold
true for iterative routing too. Conﬁrming this belief is the
subject of future work.
Evaluating proximity methods requires the topology of
an underlying network along with its link latencies. Testing
proximitymethods on only one or two topologies doesn’t en-
sure that the results will generalize. So, after deﬁning PNS
and PRS, we discuss whether we can more generally under-
387 

0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
Failed paths (%)
Failed nodes (%)
N=16, L=16 Ring
N=16, L=48 Ring
N=32, L=1 Ring
N=64, L=1 Ring
0
5
10
15
20
25
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
Average path hop-counts
Failed nodes (%)
N=16, L=16 Ring
N=16, L=48 Ring
N=32, L=1 Ring
N=64, L=1 Ring
Figure 3: Left: Percentage of failed paths for varying percentages of node failures for a Ring geometry
for varying numbers of neighbors (N) and sequential neighbors (L).Right: Average path hop-counts of the
successful paths for varying percentages of node failures.
stand the role of topology and link latencies in proximity
methods.
After these preliminaries, we ﬁnally address the question
of how geometry aﬀects path latency in DHT routing algo-
rithms. Our analysis style here is diﬀerent from that of the
previous section on static resilience; there, we were compar-
ing the detailed diﬀerences in geometries. Here, we will ﬁnd
that the geometries themselves make less diﬀerence than
whether or not they can support PNS and/or PRS. Thus,
this section is really a comparison of those two proximity
methods. As discussed in Section 2, some geometries are
capable of PNS, some of PRS, and others of both. In this
section, we wish to evaluate therelative performance of PNS
and PRS to see whether restrictions on adopting them is a
signiﬁcant hindrance.
4.1 PNS and PRS
In DHT algorithms that haveﬂexibility in choosing neigh-
bors, typically these neighbors have to be chosen from some
subset of the identiﬁer space. The ideal PNS algorithm
would be to select the closest neighbors (as measured by
latency) in these subsets. For example, the subset for the
ith neighbor of a nodea in a Tree geometry is the identiﬁer
space of thesub-treeat depthicontaining thenode, while in
a Ring geometry itis theidentiﬁer space [(a+2i),(a+2i+1)].
However, identifying the closest nodes is hard in practice,
as the sizes of the subsets grow exponentially withi.S o ,
various heuristics have been proposed in [2, 8] to approx-
imate the performance of ideal PNS. Here, we deﬁne one
such heuristic, dubbed PNS(K) that uses random sampling.
PNS(K) samplesK consecutive nodes starting from the ﬁrst
element in the relevant subset and picks the closest one. We
don’t dwell here on how one should pickK, but in general a
node can make a reasonable choice ofK after inspecting its
latency distribution (see below). From now on, we use the
term PNS to refer to ideal PNS.
ThePRSalgorithms havetodeal with amorecomplicated
tradeoﬀ between the number of hops and the latency. Any
neighbor closer to the destination in the identiﬁer space is
a valid next hop, and without proximity, the next hop is
chosen in a greedy fashion to decrease the number of hops.
While there are a number of heuristics that trade hops for
latency, we focus on three heuristics that we found eﬀective
for each of the Ring, XOR and Hypercube geometries.
The heuristic for Ring takes advantage of the multiple
paths with equal number of hops to a destination (see Ta-
ble 1) and chooses the next hop from a subset of neighbors,
called the candidate set, which do not (usually) increase the
routing path hops. To select the candidate set, the distance
tothedestination isexpressedinbinarynotation, andneigh-
bor i is chosen to the set if there is a 1 in theith position.
Theclosestmemberof thecandidatesetispickedasthenext
hop. When coupled with PNS(K), the algorithm disallows
the closest logk neighbors from the candidate set (unless,
of course, the destination lies within the closest logk neigh-
bors).10 However, this heuristic cannot be applied to XOR
as its geometry does not have the luxury of multiple paths
with the same number of hops to the destination. Our PRS
heuristic for XOR takes a non-greedy next hop only when
its latency is smaller than the latency of the greedy next
hop choice by more than the average latency in the network.
This primarily helps to avoid very long hops. In Hypercube,
all the alternate paths have the same number of hops, so our
PRS heuristic is very simple. From the valid next hops, we
pick the one with smallest latency.
We now investigate the role of topology in determining
the eﬀectiveness of these proximity methods.
4.2 Role of Topology and Latency
Oneof the aspects that makes it hard to understand prox-
imity methods is that their performance depends so criti-
cally on the underlying topology and its latency character-
istics. While there is a large literature describing possible
approaches to topology modeling – starting with the ini-
tial random graphs of Waxman, to the structural generators
in GT-ITM (transit-stub and tiers), to the more recent set
of power-law degree-based generators – there is little known
about how to assign latencies in such a topology. While pre-
vious studies [2, 8, 9, 21] evaluate proximity methods using
one or more of these topology generators along with some
ratherad hocchoice of latency assignments, they don’t an-
alyze how their choice of latencies aﬀects the performance
of the proximity methods. Thus, research into proximity
methods is now in a position where we neither know how to
describe the real-world latencies nor understand their eﬀect
on our proposed algorithms.
10Thus, this version of PRS adds nothing when combined
with the ideal PNS algorithm, which eﬀectively has inﬁnite
K.
388 

(a) (b)
Figure 4: The CDF of latency distributions for (a) the Internet as seen from diﬀerent geographic locations
and (b) a 16,384 node GT-Itm topology as seen from a typical node.
We propose one possible way out of this bind. We con-
jecture that the eﬀect of topology and latencies, for a large
class of networks including the current Internet graph, can
be reasonably well approximated by looking only at the la-
tency distribution as seen from a “typical” node. That is,
we conjecture that when choosing neighbors or next-hops,
it is a reasonable approximation to consider the set of pos-
sibilities as coming from an independent drawing from the
given latency distribution.11
Ifthisconjectureholds, thentherearetwoimmediateben-
eﬁts. First, one can empirically measure the latency distri-
butionof theInternetfrom varioussuitably located hosts, so
thatoneneednotguessatlatencyassignmentsinanInternet
topology model. Second, given this measured distribution
one cancompute(not merely simulate) an approximation to
the expected performance of a proximity method. To evalu-
ate our conjecture, we simulate the performance of the var-
ious proximity methods over a latency annotated network
topology and compare them with their performance com-
puted using only the latency distribution seen by a random
node in the topology. In doing so, we make a further ap-
proximation that the latency distribution is uniform across
a l ln o d e s .A sw ew i l ls e eb e l o w ,t h er e s u l t sf r o mt h i sv e r y
simple and rough approximation agree rather well with our
simulation results (see Figure 5).
To illustrate the real-world latencies, we used data from
the Skitter project [17] and a P2P measurement project [23]
to plot the latencies to a large number of end hosts spread
across the Internet as seen from various geographical loca-
tions in Figure 4(a) (similar measurements can be seen in
[26] and elsewhere). The end hosts measured in the Skitter
project cover a large fraction of routable IP preﬁxes, while
those measured in the P2P project are Gnutella hosts. A
striking feature common to all these latency graphs is that
the curves rise sharply in a certain latency range, indicating
aheavyconcentration of nodeswithinthelatencyrange. We
note that these latency graphs diﬀer signiﬁcantly from the
assumptions required in [10, 16] to prove their bounds. In
Figure 4(b), we show the latency distribution from a typical
node in our 16,384 node GT-ITM topology that we used for
our simulation results presented later. An important diﬀer-
ence between the observed and GT-ITM latencies is that a
11We acknowledge that this approximation suﬀers if the
latency distribution varies substantially and qualitatively
from point-to-point. However, the approximation need only
be good enough to capture the relative merits of diﬀerent
approaches, and is not intended to provide quantitatively
accurate descriptions of a method’s performance.
non-negligible fraction of the observed real-world latencies
are very large. For the GT-ITM case, there are no paths
that are more than double the median latency, whereas in
all the observed distributions atleast 10% of the paths have
latencies double that of their median.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 9000
CDF
Latency
Simulated PNS Tree
Computed PNS Tree
Simulated PRS Ring
Computed PRS Ring
Figure 5: The CDF of path latency distributions
for PNS Tree and PRS Ring derived in two ways:
simulated using a GT-ITM topology and computed
only using its latency distribution.
Figure 5 compares the computed and simulated results
for two algorithms, PRS Ring and PNS Tree, on our GT-
ITM topology with 16,384 nodes. Links between two transit
nodes are assigned a latency of 100, while those between a
transit node and a stub node are assigned 20. The latencies
of links between two stub nodes are set to 5. Note that the
computations agree well withthesimulations conﬁrming our
conjecture earlier that computations over the latency distri-
bution seen by a typical node provides a reasonable approx-
imation to the actual simulations. The results for PRS are
not as close as those of PNS, and this is likely dueto the fact
that PRS algorithms typically lead to variations in the hop
count. However, thediﬀerencesbetween simulated and com-
puted results are far less than the diﬀerences between the
GT-ITM and observed latency distributions. Thus, what-
ever precision we have lost by using computations rather
than simulations are more than made up for by the increase
in accuracy in modeling reality.
In what follows, we will consider only XOR, Ring, Hyper-
cube, and Tree. The Hybrid algorithm and the Tree algo-
rithm are essentially identical when there are no node fail-
ures.12 The Butterﬂy does not admit either PNS or PRS.
12One minor point: while the Tree does not admit PRS, the
389 

0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 400 800 1200 1600 2000
CDF
Latency (msec)
Plain XOR
PNS XOR
PRS XOR
PNS+PRS XOR
Internet
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 400 800 1200 1600 2000
CDF
Latency
Plain Ring
PNS Ring
PRS Ring
PNS+PRS Ring
Figure 6: The CDF of path latency distributions for the Plain, PNS, PRS and PNS+PRS versions of
XOR (left) and Ring (right) routing geometries.In addition, the CDF for the underlying Internet latency
distribution is plotted for comparison.On the right graph the PNS+PRS curve lies on top of the PNS curve,
so it isn’t directly visible.All algorithms used 1 sequential neighbor and are computed using a real-world
latency distribution (marked VA in Figure 4).
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 400 800 1200 1600 2000
CDF
Latency (msec)
Plain Ring
PNS(16) Ring
PRS Ring
PNS(16)+PRS Ring
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 400 800 1200 1600 2000
CDF
Latency
Plain Ring (1 seq. neighbor)
Plain Ring (16 seq. neighbor)
PRS Ring (1 seq. neighbor)
PRS Ring (16 seq. neighbor)
PNS Ring (1 seq. neighbor)
PNS Ring (16 seq. neighbor)
Figure 7: Left: The CDF of path latency distributions for the Plain, PNS(16), PRS and PNS(16)+PRS ver-
sions of Ring.These algorithms used 16 sequential neighbors.Right: The CDF of path latency distributions
for the Plain, PRS and PNS versions of the Ring using 1 or 16 sequential neighbors as marked in the titles
of the curves.These are computed using a real-world latency distribution (marked VA in Figure4).
Geometry
 No Proximity
 PNS
 PRS
XOR
 9
 9
 11
Ring
 9
 9
 9
Tree
 10
 10
 N/A
Hypercube
 9
 N/A
 9
Table 3: These 90th percentile hopcounts for the dif-
ferent DHTs show that the hopcounts do not change
signiﬁcantly when using various proximity methods.
The network used had 16384 nodes.
Our results below are obtained over a 16,384 node network.
The 90th percentile hopcounts for the diﬀerent geometries
when using various proximity methods are summarized in
Table 3 to conﬁrm that the gains in path latency reported
below do not come at a signiﬁcant cost for the path hop-
counts.
4.3 Performance Results
For the rest of this section, we address three questions.
Hybrid geometry could be extended to accommodate PRS.
We don’t pursue that extension here.
Question #1: Which is more eﬀective, PNS or PRS?
Bothmethodshavebeenproposedintheliterature, buttheir
eﬀectiveness has never been compared. To hold ﬁxed the
eﬀect of the underlying geometry, we compare the two ap-
proaches in the two geometries that can accommodate both:
XOR and Ring. Figure 6 shows results for the Plain, PNS,
PRS, and PNS+PRS versions of the XOR and Ring algo-
rithms. In both cases, the PRS version shows a signiﬁcant
improvement over the Plain version, but far more improve-
ment is realized by the PNS version. In addition, adding
PRS to PNS gives only a small improvement over the PNS
alone.
To understand why PNS is better than PRS, consider a
node in a densely packed Ring geometry trying to route to
a identiﬁer that is at a distance between [2i,2i+1]f r o mi t -
self. With PNS the node would deterministically pick itsith
neighbor, but that neighbor is selected from any of the 2i
nodes with identiﬁers between [2i,2i+1]. In contrast, PRS
can choose from any of its ﬁrsti neighbors, but each such
neighbor is deterministically chosen. Thus, PNS chooses
among 2i options while PRS choses amongi options, result-
ing in improved performance for PNS.
These results reported above are for “ideal” PNS. To see
whether the results change when only sampling a small sub-
390 

set, we compare the various design options whenK = 16,
where K i st h es a m p l es i z e .T h el e f tg r a p ho fF i g u r e7s h o w s
that the results are similar in this case, with PNS(16) per-
forming signiﬁcantly better than PRS, although the perfor-
mance improvement of PNS(16)+PRS over PNS(16) alone
is somewhat more than the performance improvement of
PNS+PRS over PNS.
To see the impact of adding sequential neighbors on the
results, we compare the performance of the Plain, PNS and
PRS versions of the Ring after adding 16 sequential neigh-
bors in the right graph of Figure 7. While the improvements
are noticeable for the Plain and the PRS versions, they are
not large enough to aﬀect the comparative results in a sig-
niﬁcant way.
Untilnowourresultsusedthelatencydistributionseenby
a node in Virginia, on theeast coast of theUSA(marked VA
in Figure 4). This distribution, while similar to those seen
from the west coast of the USA and Europe (marked CA
and NL), is considerably diﬀerent from that seen from the
Japan (marked JP). To test the consistency of our results
across two very diﬀerent latency distributions, we compute
theperformance oftheproximitymethodsoverXORgeome-
try using the JP latency distribution and show the results in
Figure8. Comparing thisgraphwiththeleftgraphofFigure
6, we notice that the relative performance of the proximity
methods are verysimilar, with PNS still outperforming PRS
by a wide margin, although the absolute performance diﬀers
markedly between the two latency distributions.13
0
20
40
60
80
100
0 800 1600 2400 3200 4000
CDF
Latency (msec)
Plain XOR (JP)
PNS XOR (JP)
PRS XOR (JP)
PNS+PRS XOR (JP)
Internet (JP)
Figure 8: The CDF of path latency distributions
for the Plain, PNS, PRS, PNS+PRS versions of the
XOR routing geometry.These algorithms used 1 se-
quential neighbor and are computed using the real-
world latency distribution marked JP in Figure 4.
To conclude, when considering path latency, it is impor-
tant that the geometry accommodate PNS; accommodating
PRS, at least for the sake of path latency, does not appear
to be important.
Question #2: Does the underlying geometry matter,
other than determining whether PNS and/or PRS can be
used? A geometry’s ﬂexibility determines whether it can
13Though for lack of space we don’t present performance re-
sults for GT-ITM latency distributions, we note here that
the results are somewhat diﬀerent than what we observed
for more realistic latency distributions. Speciﬁcally, the per-
formance gap between PRS and the Plain is much smaller
andtheperformancegapbetweenPNSandPNS(16)ismuch
larger in the GT-ITM case than for the real-world latency
distributions. Thus, we urge caution when using GT-ITM
topologies to evaluate proximity methods.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 400 800 1200 1600 2000
CDF
Latency
PNS+PRS Ring
PNS+PRS XOR
PNS Ring
PNS Tree
PRS Ring
PRS Hypercube
Figure 9: The CDF of path latency distributions
for PNS+PRS Ring, PNS+PRS XOR, PNS Ring,
PNS Tree, PRS Ring, PRS Hypercube.These are
computed using a real-world latency distribution
(marked VA in Figure4).The PNS+PRS Ring lies
on top of the PNS curve, so it is not directly visible.
These algorithms used 1 sequential neighbor.
Routing
 Median
 VA Median
 JP Median
Algorithm
 Hopcount
 Latency
 Latency
Internet
 1
 102
 206
XOR
 7
 1036
 1725
PNS XOR
 7
 139
 385
PRS XOR
 8
 770
 1557
PNS+PRS XOR
 7
 136
 381
Table 4: Comparing the median latency and hop-
counts of XOR based overlay paths and the under-
lying IP paths for two extremely diﬀerent latency
distributions (marked VA and JP in Figure 4).The
latencies are in milliseconds.
accommodatePNSand/orPRS,buthereweaskwhetherge-
ometry aﬀects path latency beyond this distinction. Figure
9 compares the performance of three pairs: PNS+PRS Ring
versus PNS+PRS XOR, PNS Ring versus PNS Tree (which
cannot implement PRS), and PRS Ring versus PRS Hyper-
cube (which cannot implement PNS). The performance of
each pair ofdesigns is veryclose, suggesting that what really
matters is the ability to implement PNS and PRS, not the
other factors in geometry.
Question #3: Whatistheabsoluteperformanceofthese
proximity methods?The results so far compare the relative
performance of proximity methods, but do not address the
question of how well they do in an absolute sense. While
this question has been addressed in papers proposing indi-
vidual proximity designs, we revisit it here because our tests
use a more realistic latency distribution and therefore may
be more indicative of real-world performance. As the abso-
lute performance depends on the exact latency distribution
used, in Table 4 we show the median latencies of the various
designs for two very diﬀerent latency distributions. As can
be seen, the very best options (PNS and PNS+PRS) fare
quite well for either distribution. While plain XOR has a
ratio of roughly 10 between the latencies, PNS+PRS XOR
has a ratio less than 2. Thus, the available proximity meth-
ods can reduce the end-to-end latencies in the overlay to a
very small multiple of the underlying Internet path latencies
(which is consistent with the ﬁndings in [2, 8]).
391 

To summarize our discussion in this section, we ﬁnd that
while both neighbor selection (PNS) and route selection
(PRS) can help in ﬁnding shorter paths, PNS yields sig-
niﬁcantly better paths than PRS. Further, the eﬀectiveness
of these proximity methods does not depend on the choice
of the routing geometry. Thus, geometries such as Tree,
XOR and Ring that support PNS perform considerably bet-
ter than geometries such as Hypercube that support only
PRS. While XOR and Ring can accommodate both PNS
and PRS (unlike Tree), the additional beneﬁt of supporting
PRS over PNS appears to be quite limited. However, the
ability to accommodate both may be an advantage while
using PNS(K), a limited but more practical version of PNS.
5. LOCAL CONVERGENCE
Local convergence is another issue that arises when con-
sidering the eﬀects of the underlying network latencies. Lo-
cal convergence, ﬁrst identiﬁed in [2], is the property that
two messages, sent from two nearby (in terms of latency)
nodes addressed to the same location, converge at a node
near the two sources. This property leads to low latencies
and/or bandwidth savings in several diﬀerent uses of DHTs,
including the following three:
Overlay multicast: When setting up a multicast tree [1,
20, 29], one cares about both the lengths of each in-
dividual path (considered in the previous section) and
the overall eﬃciency of the entire multicast tree. This
latter quantity is improved if DHT routing has the lo-
cal convergence property mentioned above.
Caching: One way to speed access is to cache pointers
along the retrieval path as described in [3, 4]. If the
DHT has good local convergence, then any nearby
node requesting the same content can make use of
these cached content.
Server selection: Similartocachingabove, andasexplained
in [16, 28], clients can more easily ﬁnd nearby servers
if pointers to them are stored along the path to the
“root.”
In this section we seek to understand the impact of ge-
ometry on local convergence. In general, local convergence
depends on the nature of the underlying topology and the
exact location of the sources and destination. To provide a
simpliﬁed and controlled experiment, we consider the case
of anisolateddomain .W ec o n s i d e rm nodes that are within
some very small latency of each other; all nodes in this iso-
lated domain are some large latency away from the other
n − m nodes. We then let each node in the isolated domain
contact the same (randomly chosen) destination outside of
the domain. The measure of local convergence is how many
exitpoints there are; that is, how many nodes in the domain
relay the message to an oﬀ-domain node. In the best case,
only one node sends a message oﬀ-domain; messages from
all other domain nodes converge on this point before leaving
the domain.
We test convergence on the Ring, Tree and XOR geome-
tries.14 Figures 10 and 11 plot the measured number of exit
14We expect PRS Hypercube to oﬀer convergence similar to
that of the PRS Ring and hence do not explore the Hyper-
cube here. Similarly, we omit the Hybrid as we expect it to
oﬀer performance similar to that of the Ring.
points for increasing domain sizes (n is held ﬁxed whilem
varies from 1 to n
2 ). Our results can be organized around
three questions:
Question #1: Which is more eﬀective, PNS or PRS?
Figure10showstheresultsforthePNS,PRS,andPNS+PRS
versions of both XOR and Ring. In both cases, PNS and
PNS+PRS provide almost optimal performance, whereas
PRS does little to limit the number of exit points (except
for very large m in the case of Ring). Thus, PNS is far
more eﬀective than PRS. Combining PRS with PNS helps
somewhat for Ringbutalmost noneat allfor XOR.Theinef-
fectiveness of PRS isn’t surprising because, at the simulated
system size of 65536, each node has 16 neighbors. Until the
domain size is a large fraction of the total population, it is
unlikely that one of these neighbors is within the domain,
and so PRS would have little eﬀect.
Question #2: Does this answer change when only con-
sidering PNS(K)?Figure 11, left, shows the results for the
PNS(16), PRS, PNS(16)+PRS versions of Ring. Because
the sampling is limited to 16, proximity neighbor selection
is not ideal and its eﬀectiveness is greatly reduced. In fact,
PRS and PNS(16) are equally ineﬀective. The combination
of the two, PNS(16)+PRS is more eﬀective, particularly at
moderate sized domains. When the domain size is small,
a limited amount of sampling (whether choosing neighbors
or routes) isn’t much help. The combination of the two,
PNS(16)+PRS, increases the level of sampling and so its ef-
fectiveness kicks in for lower values ofm. Thus, PRS might
play an important role in local convergence if the domain
sizes of interest are small and the sampling used to imple-
ment PNS is limited.
Question #3: How does the performance of the various
geometries compare?Figure 11, right, compares the results
for PNS Tree, PNS+PRS Ring, and PNS+PRS XOR. As
can be seen, these all perform roughly the same. Thus, as
with path latency, the biggest diﬀerence between geometries
is whether or not they can accommodate PNS and/or PRS.
Our results suggest that the relevance of PRS depends on
whether or not PNS can be closely approximated (at least
more closely than PNS(16) does). If not, then implement-
ing PRS provides signiﬁcant value; if so, then PRS may not
be needed as PNS by itself provides almost all the perfor-
mance of PNS+PRS. References [8, 2] propose methods for
eﬃciently approximating PNS, but it is not yet known how
much better they are than PNS(16) for these scenarios.
6. DISCUSSION
This paper has not introduced any new DHT algorithms,
nor has it presented any theorems. However, we hope that
it has provided some pieces of insight that will be useful
in future DHT routing designs. At a very high level, our
ﬁndings can be summarized as follows:
Component-based analysis: When comparing DHT al-
gorithms we advocate analyzing the component design
decisions separately rather than comparing DHTs as
black-boxesor turn-keysystems. Inparticular, this re-
quires separating systems-level design decisions, which
usually are independent of the routing, from routing-
level design decisions. This is more philosophy than
science, but we think our approach, while not as ef-
fective in picking the best current design, is more con-
ducive to creating better designs in the future.
392 

0.1
1
10
100
1000
10000
100000
256 512 1024 2048 4096 8192 16384 32768
Number of Exit Points
Size of Isolated Domain
PNS XOR
PRS XOR
PNS+PRS XOR
0.1
1
10
100
1000
10000
100000
256 512 1024 2048 4096 8192 16384 32768
Number of Exit Points
Size of Isolated Domain
PNS Ring
PRS Ring
PNS+PRS Ring
Figure 10: The number of exit points for a system of size 65536 with varying sizes of isolated domains.The
left graph shows results for the PNS, PRS and PNS+PRS versions of XOR, while the right graph shows
results for the PNS, PRS and PNS+PRS versions of Ring.
0.1
1
10
100
1000
10000
100000
256 512 1024 2048 4096 8192 16384 32768
Number of Exit Points
Size of Isolated Domain
PNS(16) Ring
PRS Ring
PNS(16)+PRS Ring
PNS+PRS Ring
0.1
1
10
100
1000
10000
100000
256 512 1024 2048 4096 8192 16384 32768
Number of Exit Points
Size of Isolated Domain
PNS Tree
PNS+PRS Ring
PNS+PRS XOR
Figure 11: The number of exit points for a system of size 65536 with varying sizes of isolated domains.The
left graph shows results for the PNS(16), PRS and PNS(16)+PRS versions of Ring, while the right graph
shows results for the PNS Tree, PNS+PRS Ring, and PNS+PRS XOR.
Routing geometry is fundamental: Thechoiceofarout-
ing geometry constrains other routing design issues.
While there are a myriad of detailed routing designs
yet to be explored, the space of routing geometries is
more limited. Hence, one might reach some consensus
on the best routing geometry well before reaching any
consensus about the various design details.
Flexibility is important: The most important diﬀerence
we noticed between geometries (besides the butterﬂy
geometry’s ability to achieveO(log n)p a t h sw i t hO(1)
neighbors) is the degree ofﬂexibility they oﬀer. Flex-
ibility describes the amount of freedom available to
choose neighbors and next-hop paths. This freedom,
in turn, aﬀects the performance in areas such static
resilience, path latency, and local convergence.
Ring and XOR are ﬂexible: TheRingandXORgeome-
tries were the only ones we tested that could freely
choose bothneighbors androutes, so theycould imple-
ment both PNS and PRS. While PNS is signiﬁcantly
more eﬀective than PRS in dealing with proximity,
there are times, as we saw in Section 5, when PRS
is an important complement to PNS. Thus, the ability
to support both is an advantage.
Why not the Ring? The Ring geometry has unsurpassed
ﬂexibility and, in addition, provides natural support
for sequential neighbors. It achieved the highest per-
formance in our resiliency tests, and was as good as
any other geometry in the proximity metrics of path
length and local convergence. Thus, our investigation
showed no advantage to the other geometries, and a
slight advantage to the Ring. While our initial incli-
nation was to favor more complicated geometries, the
question we end this paper with is: why not use ring
geometries?
However, we pose this as a question, not a conclusion.
There is much more to be done before any deﬁnitive judge-
ments can be drawn. Our investigation is incomplete in
many aspects. For example, our study could be extended
to a wider class of routing geometries, theoretical bounds
could be derived for many of our simulation results, and the
impact of a routing geometry (and in particular its sym-
metry or the lack thereof) on the cost of maintaining the
associated overlay structure should be studied. Thus, we
view our paper as only the ﬁrst step in a more fundamental
investigation of routing algorithms.
7. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We wish to thank several anonymous reviewers and our
shepherd Antony Rowstron for their feedback and sugges-
tions. We thank Dahlia Malkhi and David Ratajczak for
their help with the implementation of Viceroy.
393 

8. REFERENCES
[1] M. Castro, M. Jones, Anne-Marie Kermarrec,
A. Rowstron, M. Theimer, H. Wang, and A. Wolman.
An Evaluation of Scalable Application-Level Multicast
Built Using Peer-To-Peer Overlays. InProceedings of
the INFOCOM2003, San Francisco, April 2003.
[2] Miguel Castro, Peter Drushel, Y.C. Hu, and Antony
Rowstron. Exploiting Network Proximity in
Peer-to-peer Networks. Technical Report
MSR-TR-2002-82, Microsoft Research, 2002.
[3] Frank Dabek, M. Frans Kaashoek, David Karger,
Robert Morris, and Ion Stoica. Wide-area cooperative
storage with CFS. InProceedings of the 18th ACM
Symposium on Operating Systems Principles(SOSP
2001), Lake Louise, AB, Canada, October 2001.
[4] Peter Druschel and Antony Rowstron. Storage
management and caching in PAST, a large-scale,
persistent peer-to-peer storage utility. InProceedings
of the 18th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems
Principles (SOSP 2001), Lake Louise, AB, Canada,
October 2001.
[5] IRIS: Infrastructure for Resilient Internet Systems.
http://iris.lcs.mit.edu, May 2002.
[6] David Karger Frans Kaashoek. Simple Constant-Space
Distributed Hash Tables. InProceedings of the IPTPS
2003, Berkeley, February 2003.
[7] Anjali Gupta, Barbara Liskov, and Rodrigo Rodrigues.
One Hop Lookups for Peer-to-Peer Overlays. In
Proceedings of the HotOS-IX2003, Hawaii, May 2003.
[8] Kirsten Hildrum, John D. Kubiatowicz, Satish Rao,
and Ben Y. Zhao. Distributed Object Location in a
Dynamic Environment. InProceedings of the ACM
SPAA, 2002.
[9] Sushant Jain, Ratul Mahajan, and David Wetherall. A
Study of Performance Potential of DHT-based
Overlays. InProceedings of the 4th Usenix Symposium
on Internet Technologies and Systems (USITS),
Seattle, WA, USA, March 2003.
[10] David R. Karger and Matthias Ruhl. Finding Nearest
Neighbours in Growth-restricted Metrics. In
Proceedings of the ACM STOC, Montreal, May 2002.
[11] J. Kleinberg. The small-world phenomenon: An
algorithmic perspective. InProceedings of the ACM
STOC 2000, 2000.
[12] John Kubiatowicz. Oceanstore: An Architecture for
Global-Scalable Persistent Storage. InProceedings of
the ASPLOS2000, Cambridge, MA, USA, November
2000.
[13] Dmitri Loguinov, Anuj Kumar, Vivek Rai, and Sai
Ganesh. Graph-Theoretic Analysis of Structured
Peer-to-Peer Systems; Routing Distances and Fault
Resilience. InProceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM ’03
Conference, Karlsruhe, Germany, August 2003.
[14] Dahlia Malkhi, Moni Naor, and David Ratajczak.
Viceroy: A Scalable Dynamic Emulation of the
Butterﬂy. InProceedings of the PODC, 2002.
[15] Petar Maymounkov and David Mazieres. Kademlia: A
Peer-to-peer Information Systems Based on the XOR
Metric . InProceedings of the IPTPS2002,B o s t o n ,
March 2002.
[16] C. Greg Plaxton, Rajmohan Rajaraman, and
Andrea W. Richa. Accessing Nearby Copies of
Replicated Objects in a Distributed Environment. In
Proceedings of the ACM SPAA, June 1997.
[17] CAIDA: The Skitter Measurement Project.
www.caida.org/tools/measurement/skitter/index.html,
2002.
[18] Sylvia Ratnasamy.AScalable Content-A ddressable
Network. PhD thesis, University of California,
Berkeley, October 2002.
[19] Sylvia Ratnasamy, Paul Francis, Mark Handley,
Richard Karp, and Scott Shenker. A Scalable
Content-Addressable Network. InProceedings of the
ACM SIGCOMM 2001 Technical Conference,S a n
Diego, CA, USA, August 2001.
[20] Sylvia Ratnasamy, Mark Handley, Richard Karp, and
Scott Shenker. Application-level Multicast using
Content-Addressable Networks. InProceedings of the
NGC 2001, 2001.
[21] Sylvia Ratnasamy, Mark Handley, Richard Karp, and
Scott Shenker. Topologically-Aware Overlay
Construction and Server Selection. InProceedings of
the INFOCOMM, 2002.
[22] Antony Rowstron and Peter Druschel. Pastry:
Scalable, distributed object location and routing for
large-scale peer-to-peer systems. InIFIP/ACM
International Conference onDistributed Systems
Platforms (Middleware), pages 329–350, November
2001.
[23] Stefan Saroiu, P. Krishna Gummadi, and Steven D.
Gribble. A Measurement Study of Peer-to-peer File
Sharing Systems. InProceedings of the Multimedia
Computing and Networking Conference (MMCN),S a n
Jose, CA, USA, January 2002.
[24] John Kubiatowicz Sean Rhea, Timothy Roscoe. DHTs
Need Application-Driven Benchmarks. InProceedings
of the IPTPS2003, Berkeley, February 2003.
[25] Ion Stoica, Robert Morris, David Karger, Frans
Kaashoek, and Hari Balakrishnan. Chord: A Scalable
Peer-to-peer Lookup Service for Internet Applications.
InProceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM2001,S a n
Diego, CA, USA, August 2001.
[26] Marcel Waldvogel and Roberto Renaldi. Eﬃcient
Topology-Aware Overlay Network. InProceedings of
the HotNets-I 2002, Princeton, October 2002.
[27] Ben Y. Zhao, Anthony Joseph, and John D.
Kubiatowicz. Locality Aware Mechanisms for
Large-scale Networks. InProceedings of the FuDiCo
02, Bertinoro, Italy, June 2002.
[28] B.Y. Zhao, K.D. Kubiatowicz, and A.D. Joseph.
Tapestry: An Infrastructure for Fault-Resilient
Wide-Area Location and Routing. Technical Report
UCB//CSD-01-1141, University of California at
Berkeley, April 2001.
[29] Shelley Q. Zhuang, Ben Y. Zhao, Anthony D. Joseph,
Randy H. Katz, and John Kubiatowicz. Bayeux: An
Architecture for Scalable and Fault-tolerant
Wide-Area Data Dissemination. InProceedings of the
NOSSDAV 2001, 2001.
394 