3 W’s of smartphone power consumption: Who, Where and How
much is draining my battery?
Agrim Gupta*, Adel Heidari*, Avyakta Kalipattapu*, Ish Kumar Jain, Dinesh Bharadia
University of California, San Diego
{agg003,adheidari,rkalipattapu,ikjain,dbharadia}@ucsd.edu
Abstract
With 6.5 billion smartphones in use worldwide, each relying on a battery for
key subsystems like display, compute, and cellular connectivity, previous
studies on power consumption often used invalidated indirect estimates
that failed to isolate specific hardware usage. We address this by utilizing
Google’s On Device Power Rails Monitor (ODPM) tool for precise power
measurements of individual components. Our findings indicate that connec-
tivity (Wi-Fi, 4G/5G) and screen display are the primary power consumers,
as shown with the Google Pixel 7A. We also confirmed similar power con-
sumption trends using an energy estimation method on the Samsung S23+.
Given the prevalence of smartphones, we discuss the challenges and oppor-
tunities for optimizing power usage.
CCS Concepts
• Hardware → Power and energy; Hardware test; Wireless devices; •
Networks → Network components.
Keywords
5G NR, Green communications, 6G, Cellular communications, Small cells,
Mobile measurement
ACM Reference Format:
Agrim Gupta*, Adel Heidari*, Avyakta Kalipattapu*, Ish Kumar Jain, Dinesh
Bharadia. 2024. 3 W’s of smartphone power consumption: Who, Where and
How much is draining my battery?. InThe 30th Annual International Confer-
ence on Mobile Computing and Networking (ACM MobiCom ’24), November
18–22, 2024, Washington D.C., DC, USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 3 pages.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3636534.3695905
1 Introduction
Smartphones have been one of the most important technical inventions of
the past decade, which has almost led to universal adoption. As of 2024, the
population of the entire world is about 8.1 billion, and the total number of
smartphones estimated stands around 6.5 billion, about 80% of the entire
world’s population [1]. As shown in Fig. 1, this explosive growth has come
at a large cost of embodied carbon footprint, as well as e-waste, to which
smartphones are the highest contributors [2]. Although components like
screen, memory, frame, can be repaired or recycled, batteries need to be
‘replaced’ as the smartphone life gets older as their batteries need to be
charged on a daily basis, which has also recently shown to have an adverse
effect on the environment [3]. Clearly, the battery is a crucial area of study
if we aim to achieve sustainable growth in smartphones. Before suggesting
any effective solutions to reduce battery power drain, it is essential to
thoroughly understand Who is consuming the power at the component
*These authors contributed equally to this work
Paper website: https://wcsng.ucsd.edu/ue-power/
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored.
For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).
ACM MobiCom ’24, November 18–22, 2024, Washington D.C., DC, USA
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0489-5/24/11
https://doi.org/10.1145/3636534.3695905
Connectivity
Display
Compute & 
Others
Trash and 
Recycle
Mining and 
Manufacturing
Recharge 
Cycle
Smartphone 
Battery
Figure 1: Each smartphone is powered with a rechargeable battery
which powers various components like connectivity, display and
computation.
level, Where this power is being used at the application level, and How
much amount each component is using.
Hence, it is consequential to understand what draws out battery on
smartphone today. Smartphone consists of various hardware subsystems
like, ‘display’ which powers up the smartphone screen, ‘compute’ which
runs the operating system and various applications, ‘connectivity’ which
consist of cellular/WiFi radios that connect the smartphone to internet.
Almost every smartphone is able to estimate the total battery discharge,
and some smartphones also enlist the battery consumed by individual
‘applications’. However a clear breakdown of power due to the individual
‘hardware components’ has been difficult to measure.
Related work: There have been prior measurement studies [4–6] which
measure power of these individual components via indirect estimation meth-
ods, which perform power subtraction between the total powers computed
in a typical mode where the hardware component is operated normally,
versus a baseline mode, where it is turned off. Due to the involved complex-
ity, these indirect methods lack validation, and their accuracy is unclear.
For instance, display power consumption has been traditionally attributed
to be one of the highest contributors [7], however, moving from 4G to 5G,
cellular modem power consumption has increased, and is more comparable
to display power consumption [4].
In this paper, we first showcase measurements from the newly released
Google’s On Device Power Rails Monitor (ODPM) tool, which is able to
measure ‘direct’ fine-grained power measurements. Hence, using ODPM
tool, we are able to obtain power measurements of all different components
like compute, display, camera, sensor systems, modem and memory access
as well ( Who in 3 W’s ). Using ODPM, we observe that across most of
the popular applications and smartphone use-cases ( Where in 3 W’s ),
that the connectivity and display components consistently consume the
highest power (How much in 3 W’s ). Further, for the first time, we are
also able to validate, as well as profile the accuracy of previously studied
indirect estimation methods by baselining them against the ODPM ora-
cle measurements on Google Pixel phone by considering cellular power
usage as the most significant contributor. Then, we extend these measure-
ments to another smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S23), to show how these
1

MobiCom’24 S3 Gupta et al.
Standby Instagram YouTube Clash-of-Clans Video Call
Different Applications
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000Power (mW)
Cellular
Compute
Memory
Display
Camera
Wi-Fi
Others
Figure 2: Average power consumption computed over 1-minute uses
for different activities, like watching a 720p video on YouTube, doing
a video call via Google Meet, scrolling on Instagram feed, playing
Clash-of-Clans and keeping the phone idle in standby.
observations around connectivity power consumption and display gener-
alize to different chipsets. We conclude with a brief discussion on further
trends/opportunities in power consumption breakdown of smartphones.
2 Power Consumption Study
In Section 2.1, we explain how the On-Device Power Measurement (ODPM)
system on Google Pixel phone is used to obtain fine-grained power data from
individual hardware components. This allows us to analyze power consump-
tion trends for popular applications (e.g., standby, Instagram, YouTube) and
break down consumption by hardware. We identify two primary sources of
power consumption: the cellular modem and the display. To generalize these
findings to other devices, we profile an indirect measurement approach
using total battery discharge with ODPM, demonstrating its accuracy in
Section 2.2. In Section 2.3, we present measurements from the Samsung
S23+, which features different chipsets compared to the Google Pixel.
2.1 Pixel 7A ODPM Power Measurements
To capture information from these ODPM rails[8] on Google Pixel phones,
we can run a system trace (using the open source Perfetto tool) to collect
the power measurement for a certain amount of time. While the Perfetto
trace runs in background, one can use the smartphone as usual for different
applications. With the trace running in the background for a set time of 1
minute, we use different applications, like YouTube, Video Call using Google
Meet, Instagram, Clash-of-Clans, and also let the phone be idle in standby.
As observed from Fig. 2, ODPM is able to capture different subsystems
power, since the camera power consumption increases during video call,
compute power consumption increases while playing Clash-of-Clans game
(compared to YouTube), and overall the power reduces in the idle standby
mode. For all these usecases, we observe that cellular and display stand out
as the two largest power consuming components.
2.2 Measuring Cellular Power w/o ODPM
Unfortunately, ODPM tool is only available on Google Pixel phones 6 and
above, and they all have the same cellular modem (Samsung Exynos 5300),
and hence, we need to make similar measurements on a different modem to
confirm the observations. This requires a measurement technique that can
estimate the modem power consumption without relying on ODPM.
We do this by measuring net battery discharge, which is reported by
almost every android phone. To isolate modem and display powers from
the net battery discharge, we take baseline measurements in airplane mode
(where modem is turned off). Then, for individual measurements, like up-
link/downlink data movement using iPerf, we perform subtraction of the
baseline power to obtain the estimates for modem power. However, a key
difference between this work and prior works which used similar base-
line suppression method [4] is that we also show accuracy of this method,
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Power (mW)
The two methods agree
well for downlink
The two methods don't
agree on uplink
Battery Counters Method
ODPM Method
Standby
iPerf 
1Mbps DL
iPerf 
5Mbps DL
iPerf 
10Mbps DL
iPerf 
1Mbps UL
iPerf 
5Mbps UL
iPerf 
10Mbps UL
Figure 3: Cellular power consumption of Google Pixel 7A using both
battery counters and ODPM methods across various experimental
categories. These categories encompass standby mode, uplink and
downlink data transmission over a 5G base-station setup.
by comparing the results with ground truth values obtained from ODPM
measurements. The estimates of modem/display power and the ground
truth from ODPM are visually illustrated in Fig. 3. From Fig. 3, we can see
that the estimation strategy works fairly well for downlink and standby
modem power measurements. However, as observed, for uplink the battery
discharge estimates for modem power are not accurate, and a reason for this
could be larger instantaneous current draws for power amplifiers during
uplink that might not get captured via total battery discharge. Similar to
airplane mode for modem power, to compute display power, we capture
battery counter measurements when the screen is turned off. Hence, using
battery discharge, we can estimate the downlink modem and display powers
by base lining the airplane and screen off power measurements respectively.
2.3 Samsung S23+ Power Measurements
In this section, we utilize the battery discharge method to estimate modem
and display components power for Samsung S23+, and compare with mea-
surements on Google Pixel 7A. We perform this experiment for standby
mode, and for streaming a 720p youtube video at the same nominal dis-
play brightness. To ensure fairness in the comparison, both phones were
equipped with the same commercial SIM card and operated on the same
wireless band. Additionally, both phone experiments were conducted at the
same location to maintain same quality of connection to the base-station.
As depicted in Fig. 4, the results show that 5G does consume a higher (about
two times) standby power consumption than 4G. Also, we can observe that
Samsung S23+ with Qualcomm X70 modem has lower power consumption
than Google Pixel 7A with Samsung Exynos 5300. Since S23+ has a larger
AMOLED screen compared to Pixel 7A’s smaller OLED screen, the display
power consumption is higher for S23+.
Next, we show youtube power consumption results in Fig. 5. Note that
YouTube data consumption is majorly downlink, for which the battery dis-
charge approach works reasonably accurate. We can also see here that S23+
with improved modem chipsets for both Wi-Fi and Cellular connectivity
has lower power consumption as compared to Pixel 7A. Overall, across
both standby and YouTube measurements, we could see that the improved
modems in newer phones do help reduce the connectivity power consump-
tion. However it still forms a major bulk of battery draw and is comparable
to that of display.

MobiCom’24 S3 Gupta et al.
4G Pixel 7A5G Pixel 7A 4G S23 Plus5G S23 Plus
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800Power (mW) Others
Display
Cellular
Figure 4: Assessing the efficacy of the battery discharge method for
two distinct Google Pixel 7A and Samsung S23+ phones maintained
in standby mode, connected to 4G-LTE and 5G networks, and delin-
eating the power usage into display, cellular, and other components.
Wi-Fi Pixel 7A4G Pixel 7A5G Pixel 7A Wi-Fi S23 Plus4G S23 Plus5G S23 Plus
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400Power (mW)
Others
Display
Wifi
Cellular
Figure 5: Power consumption during 720p YouTube video streaming
over Wi-Fi, 4G-LTE and 5G cellular networks for both the Google
Pixel 7A and Samsung S23 Plus phones. Additionally, replicating the
measurements for the same activity via Wi-Fi.
3 Discussion and Future Work
(a) Implications on Edge Compute: The measurements showcased in this
work have a huge implication on edge compute. With rise of AI services, like
Galaxy AI on S24 and Gemini on Pixel 8, it might be possible that an online
server inference requiring connectivity may be worse for energy than an
on-device inference with edge compute. This also requires further work
on profiling compute energy for more complicated tasks like AI inferences,
and exploring tradeoffs between the communication and computing energy
costs. Some initial studies assuming WiFi communication to cloud have
already started to surface up [3], however, a much careful look at cellular
power consumption is needed.
(b) Devising Energy Currency unit, enforcing ODPM rails across
different phones: We emphasize again that smartphone as a technology
has achieved an unprecedented scale (6.5 billion smartphones [1] vs 8 billion
world population today). Hence, ODPM profiling needs to be mandated
across smartphones, and concept of energy currency needs to be devised
for applications.
(c) Future smartphone innovations targeted towards modem energy
optimizations: Wi-Fi still consumes lesser power than cellular networks
while they transfer same amount of data. With upcoming innovations like
5G redcap [9], smart network configurations [10], this differential can be
reduced, and these research efforts can also benefit from more detailed
smartphone power breakdown studies.
References
[1] Total number of smartphones, big data. https://whatsthebigdata.com/
smartphone-stats/.
[2] Jennifer Switzer, Gabriel Marcano, Ryan Kastner, and Pat Pannuto.
Junkyard computing: Repurposing discarded smartphones to mini-
mize carbon. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM International Conference
on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating
Systems, Volume 2, pages 400–412, 2023.
[3] David Patterson, Jeffrey M Gilbert, Marco Gruteser, Efren Robles, Kr-
ishna Sekar, Yong Wei, and Tenghui Zhu. Energy and emissions of
machine learning on smartphones vs. the cloud. Communications of
the ACM, 67(2):86–97, 2024.
[4] Dongzhu Xu, Anfu Zhou, Xinyu Zhang, Guixian Wang, Xi Liu, Congkai
An, Yiming Shi, Liang Liu, and Huadong Ma. Understanding opera-
tional 5g: A first measurement study on its coverage, performance and
energy consumption. In Proceedings of the Annual conference of the
ACM Special Interest Group on Data Communication on the applications,
technologies, architectures, and protocols for computer communication ,
pages 479–494, 2020.
[5] Monsoon power monitor. https://www.msoon.com/high-voltage-
power-monitor.
[6] Matteo Varvello, Kleomenis Katevas, Mihai Plesa, Hamed Haddadi,
and Benjamin Livshits. Batterylab, a distributed power monitoring
platform for mobile devices. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM Workshop
on Hot Topics in Networks , pages 101–108, 2019.
[7] Noor Zaman and Fatimah Abdulaziz Almusalli. Smartphones power
consumption & energy saving techniques. In 2017 international con-
ference on innovations in electrical engineering and computational tech-
nologies (ICIEECT), pages 1–7. IEEE, 2017.
[8] Google odpm power rails and power profiler.https://developer.android.
com/studio/profile/power-profiler.
[9] Sandeep Narayanan Kadan Veedu, Mohammad Mozaffari, Andreas
Höglund, Emre A Yavuz, Tuomas Tirronen, Johan Bergman, and Y-
P Eric Wang. Toward smaller and lower-cost 5g devices with longer
battery life: An overview of 3gpp release 17 redcap. IEEE Communica-
tions Standards Magazine, 6(3):84–90, 2022.
[10] Anum Ali, Yuqiang Heng, Vutha Va, Priyabrata Parida, Boon Loong
Ng, and Jianzhong Charlie Zhang. Ue power saving with traffic classi-
fication and ue assistance. IEEE Access, 2023.