arXiv:2006.04865v1  [cs.DC]  8 Jun 2020
Resource Burning for Permissionless Systems
Diksha Gupta 1, Jared Saia ∗2, and Maxwell Young †3
1Dept. of Computer Science, University of New Mexico, NM, USA
dgupta@unm.edu
2Dept. of Computer Science, University of New Mexico, NM, USA
saia@cs.unm.edu
3Computer Science and Engineering Dept., Mississippi State Universit y, MS, USA
myoung@cse.msstate.edu
Abstract
Proof-of-work puzzles and CAPTCHAS consume enormous amount s of
energy and time. These techniques are examples of resource burn ing:
veriﬁable consumption of resources solely to convey information.
Can these costs be eliminated? It seems unlikely since resource
burning shares similarities with “money burning” and “costly signal-
ing”, which are foundational to game theory, biology, and economic s.
Can these costs be reduced? Yes, research shows we can signiﬁca ntly
lower the asymptotic costs of resource burning in many diﬀerent se t-
tings.
In this paper, we survey the literature on resource burning; take
positions based on predictions of how the tool is likely to evolve; and
propose several open problems targeted at the theoretical dist ributed-
computing research community.
“It’s not about money, it’s about sending a message.”
The Joker [107]
1 Introduction
In 1993, Dwork and Naor proposed using computational puzzle s to com-
bat spam email [43]. In the ensuing three decades, resource burning —
veriﬁable consumption of resources—has become a well-esta blished tool in
distributed security. The resource consumed has broadened to include not
∗ This work is supported by the National Science Foundation gr ants CNS-1318880 and
CCF-1320994.
† This work is supported by the National Science Foundation gr ant CCF 1613772 and
by a research gift from C Spire.
1

just computational power, but also communication capacity, computer mem-
ory, and human eﬀort.
The rise of permissionless systems has coincided with the recent in-
crease in popularity of resource burning. In permissionles s systems, any
participant—represented by a virtual identiﬁer ( ID) in the system—is free
to join and depart without scrutiny, while enjoying a high de gree of anonymity.
For example, an ID might be an IP address, a digital wallet, or a username.
In this setting, security challenges arise from the inabili ty to link an ID to
the corresponding user. A single malicious user may create a large number
of accounts on a social media platform to wield greater inﬂue nce; or present
itself as multiple clients to disproportionately consume r esources provided
by the system; or inject many IDs in a peer-to-peer network to gain control
over routing and content. This malicious behavior is referr ed to as the Sybil
attack , originally described by Douceur [41].
Such attacks are possible because users are not “ID-bounded ” in a per-
missionless system; that is, there is no cost, and therefore no limit, to the
number of IDs that the attacker ( adversary ) can generate. However, the
adversary is often “resource-bounded”, even if this bound i s unknown. In
particular, it may be constrained, for example, in the numbe r of machines it
controls, or total channel capacity to which it has access. R esource burning
leverages this constraint, forcing IDs to prove their disti nct provenance by
producing work that no single attacker can perform.
Paper Overview. Resource burning is a critical tool for defending per-
missionless systems. In support of this claim, we survey an a ssortment
of topics: distributed ledgers, application-layer distri buted denial-of-service
(DDoS) attacks, review spam, and secure distributed hash ta bles (DHTs).
Using these examples, we highlight how results in these diﬀer ent areas have
converged upon resource burning as a critical ingredient fo r achieving secu-
rity; this is summarized in Table 1.
As prelude to this survey, we predict how resource-burning m ay evolve,
and how systems may adapt to this technique. These predictio ns are distilled
in four position statements below.
Position 1: Resource burning is a fundamental tool for
defending permissionless systems.
PoW and CAPTCHAs have been around now for decades, persistin g de-
spite concerns over scalability, resource consumption, se curity guarantees,
2

Domain
Primary
Resource
Consumed
Mechanism Enabled
Functionality Conjectured Cost
Blockchains CPU CPU Puzzles Distributed Ledger O(√ T JG + JG)
DHTs CPU CPU Puzzles Decentralized
storage and search
˜O(√ T JG + JG)
DDoS
Attacks
Bandwidth
/ CPU
Messages /
CPU Puzzles
Fair allocation of
server resources No Conjecture
Review
Spam
Human
Time CAPTCHAS Trusted consumer
recommendations
˜O(T 2/ 3 + PG)
Table 1: Summary of the domains surveyed, along with the corr esponding
resources, and core functionality that is secured by resour ce burning. We
also make conjectures on the algorithmic spend rate. Here, T is the adver-
sary’s spend rate; JG is the join rate for good IDs; and PG is the posting rate
of good IDs. We elaborate on these notions in Section 2.5. The ˜O notation
omits polylogarithmic factors.
and predicted obsolescence (see discussion under Position 2 and Section 3).
The continued practical success of resource burning aligns with theoretical
justiﬁcation from game-theoretic results on “money-burni ng” and “costly
signaling”(Section 2.1). Given the increasing popularity of permissionless
systems, and the need to defend them, resource burning will l ikely only
increase in prevalence.
Position 2: Resource burning must be optimized.
In May 2020, the annual energy consumption of Bitcoin was 57 .92 terawatt-
hours of electricity per year, which is comparable to the ann ual electricity
consumption of Bangladesh; Ethereum was 7 .9 terawatt-hours, comparable
to that of Angola [39]. In 2012, humans spent an estimated 150 , 000 hours
per day solving CAPTCHAS [114, 137]. The rise of permissionl ess systems
will likely only increase these rates of resource burning.
On the positive side, recent theoretical results suggest th at resource
burning can be analyzed and optimized just like any other com putational
resource [59, 61]. But there is signiﬁcant work needed to: (1 ) develop a the-
ory of resource burning focused on distributed security; an d to (2) translate
this theory into practical resource savings.
3

In this paper, we discuss current theoretical work on reduci ng resource-
burning rates across multiple application: blockchains (S ection 3); DHTs
(Section 4); application-layer DDoS attacks (Section 5); a nd review spam
(Section 6).
Position 3: Reducing from permissionless to permis-
sioned systems is important.
Four decades of research have resulted in eﬃcient and reliab le algorithms for
permissioned networks. We should leverage these results wh en addressing
problems in new permissionless systems. One way to do this is to develop
tools, based on resource burning, that bound the fraction of IDs controlled
by the adversary ( bad IDs ) in permissionless systems. In Sections 3, we
discuss results on the problem GenID, which provides this bound for static,
permissionless networks; and DefID which does so for permissionless net-
works with churn.
In Sections 5 and 6, we discuss the threats posed by applicati on-layer
denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks and review spam. Neither problem aligns
perfectly with a permissionless model. For example, server s are under ad-
ministrative control, and online review systems often requ ire credentials for
account creation. However, these systems still remain vuln erable to mali-
cious participants that are diﬃcult to identify, and who mon opolize system
resources. We deﬁne a hybrid system model as one that contains both per-
missioned and permissionless properties. We note that any t ools designed
for permissionless systems will also work for hybrid system s. However, we
would expect to be able to develop more eﬃcient techniques to adapt tools
from permissioned systems to these hybrid systems.
Position 4: Theoretical guarantees should hold inde-
pendently of the resource burned. Research should fo-
cus on both domain-speciﬁc and domain-generic prob-
lems.
As theoreticians, we should generalize as much as possible. Algorithms
that use resource burning should require a certain “cost” th at speciﬁes the
amount of the resource to be consumed, but should allow for th at resource
to be anything: computation, computer memory, bandwidth, h uman eﬀort,
or some other resource yet to be deﬁned. As much as possible, t heoretical
4

results should be stated in terms of this cost, irrespective of the resource
consumed. This ensures our theoretical results will contin ue to be relevant,
even as underlying technologies providing veriﬁable resou rce burning may
change.
Additionally, a key research focus should be on problems tha t gen-
eralize across multiple domains. In this paper, we describe two exam-
ples: GenID and DefID (Section 3.1). Our remaining three examples
are domain-speciﬁc. We believe it is important to work on bot h types of
problems.
2 Background and Preliminaries
Resource burning has found application in various areas of c omputer se-
curity; indeed, its use was proposed by Douceur [41] as a defe nse against
the Sybil attack [40, 75, 100, 106]. However, resource burni ng has a broader
history, with similar ideas appearing in several other scie ntiﬁc domains.
In Section 2.1, we present this background. In Sections 2.2, 2.3, and 2.4,
we elaborate on the notion of resource burning. Finally, in S ection 2.5, we
describe a general problem model that provides a unifying se t of assumptions
and terminology used throughout this document.
2.1 Game Theory , Biology and Economics
Resource burning is analogous to what is referred to as money burning in the
game theory literature. To the best of our knowledge, the ﬁrs t signiﬁcant al-
gorithmic game theory study of money burning, due to Hartlin e and Rough-
garden, analyzed the use of money burning in mechanism desig n [61]. Their
main result is a near-optimal mechanism for multi-unit auct ions, where the
quantity optimized is social welfare or the sum of utilities of all players.
They also give results showing that, under certain conditio ns, an auction
utilizing money burning can obtain a Ω
(
1
1+log(n/k)
)
fraction of the optimal
social welfare, where the auction consists of n bidders who are bidding for
k units. They conclude that “the cost of implementing money-burning ... is
relatively modest, provided an optimal money-burning mech anism is used” .
Money burning is also known as costly signaling in the game theory
literature, and it has two main uses in this context. First, i t can signal com-
mitment to a certain action, as is illustrated in the “lunch” game1 [29, 68].
Second, it can signal the “type” of a player, as is in the“coll ege” game [29].
We present these two games below.
1This is equivalent to what is referred to as the “battle of the sexes” game in [29]
5

Lunch Game. Two friends want to eat lunch together, but the ﬁrst friend
prefers option A and the second prefers option B. They each ob tain payoﬀ
of −1 if they choose diﬀerent locations. If they both pick option A , they
obtain payoﬀs of 10 and 1 respectively. Conversely, if they bo th pick option
B, they obtain payoﬀs of 1 and 10.
Now, if the ﬁrst friend veriﬁably burns money equal to 1 unit o f utility
prior to playing the game, this signals a commitment to their preferred
option, since if they were to choose the unpreferable option , their utility
would now be at most 0. Thus, they would not have played the gam e. In
this way, a friend who burns money can expect higher utility.
College Game. Each student is one of two types: smart or daft. Each
student is considering college and can choose either the act ion attend or not
attend. A smart student pays a cost of 1 (in terms of time and eﬀort) to
attend college, and a daft student pays a cost of 3 to attend co llege. We
assume that the decision of the student to attend college is p ublicly known,
but that otherwise, college has no impact: daft students sta y daft even after
attending.2
An employer wants to hire smart students. If the employer hir es a smart
student, their beneﬁt is 2, and if they hire a daft student, th eir cost is 2. If
a student is hired by the employer, they have a beneﬁt of 2, and if they are
not hired, they have a beneﬁt of 0.
It is easy to verify that the following is a Nash equilibrium f or this game:
◦ Smart students attend college.
◦ Daft students do not attend college.
◦ The employer hires only students that attend college.
Here, smart students all choose to attend, even though college has no
intrinsic beneﬁt . Thus, the choice to attend college is a costly signal made
by the smart students, and college itself is an example of res ource burning.
If the option to attend college were removed from the game, an d the
fraction of smart students were less than 1 /2, then a Nash equilibrium would
be for the employer to never hire. In this case, the overall so cial welfare—the
sum of expected beneﬁts to all players—would decrease.
Biology . Costly signaling is a well-known phenomena in biology. A rel evant
example from animal behavior is stotting, in which quadrupeds, such as deer
and gazelles, repeatedly jump high into the air. This is ofte n done in view of
2On the positive side, smart students stay smart!
6

a predator, suggesting that stotting is a costly signal to th e predator that the
prey is too healthy to catch [49]. Other examples occur in sex ual-selection,
where the use of plumage, large antlers, and loud cries are a c ostly signal of
ﬁtness [156].
Economics. In 1912, the economist Thostein Veblen coined the term “con-
spicuous consumption” to describe costly signaling used by people to adver-
tise both wealth and leisure. For example, Veblen writes, “The walking stick
serves the purpose of an advertisement that the bearer’s han ds are employed
otherwise than in useful eﬀort, and it therefore has utility as an evidence of
leisure” [134]. Decades of economic studies suggest that conspicuou s con-
sumption is a critical part of historical and modern economi es [98, 113, 118,
121,131]. For example, Sundie et al write: “Although showy spending is often
perceived as wasteful, frivolous, and even narcissistic, a n evolutionary per-
spective suggests that blatant displays of resources may se rve an important
function, namely, as a communication strategy designed to g ain reproductive
reward” [131].
2.2 What is Resource Burning?
We deﬁne resource burning as the veriﬁable consumption of a resource.
In particular, it is computationally easy to verify both the consumption of
the resource, and also the ID that consumed the resource [6]. Below we
describe several resource-burning techniques.
Proof-of-work (PoW). PoW is arguably the current, best-known example
of resource burning. Here, the resource is computational po wer. Proof-of-
work has been proposed for spam-prevention [43, 85, 90]; blo ckchains [103];
and defense against Sybil attacks [10, 88].
CAPTCHAs. A completely automated public Turing test to tell computers
and humans apart , or a CAPTCHA, is a resource-burning tool where the
resource is human eﬀort [148]. CAPTCHAs may be based around te xt,
images, or audio; however, several design and usability iss ues exist [147].
Proof-of-Space. Proof-of-space requires a prover to demonstrate utiliza-
tion of a certain amount of storage space [1, 13, 42, 44]. This approach is
foundational for Spacemint cryptocurrency [111]. Like PoW , proof of space
demonstrates the consumption of a certain amount of a physic al resource,
but can require less electrical power. A related proposal is “Proof of Space-
Time” [102], which demands proof of consumption of a certain amount of
storage space for a certain amount of time.
Resource T esting. Resource testing requires a prover to demonstrate
7

utilization of a radio channel [55,56,101]. 3 Consider a wireless setting where
each device has a single radio that provides access to one of s everal channels.
Thus, an adversary representing two bad IDs, but with a singl e device,
can only listen to one channel at a time. A base station can ass ign each
ID to separate channels; send a random message on one of these channels
chosen randomly; and demand that the message be echoed back b y the
corresponding ID. Since the adversary can only listen to a on e channel at a
time, it will fail this test with probability at least 1 /2.
2.3 What is not Resource Burning
Proof-of-Stake (PoS) is a defense for permissionless systems, wherein
security relies on the adversary holding a minority stake in an abstract ﬁnite
resource [2]. It has been proposed primarily for cryptocurr ency systems
(Section 3). When making a group decision, PoS ensures that e ach ID has
voting weight proportional to the amount of cryptocurrency that ID holds.
Well-known examples of such systems are ALGORAND [54], whic h employs
PoS to form a committee, and Ouroboros [83], which elects lea ders with
probability proportional to their stake. Hybrid approache s using both PoW
and PoS exist, including one proposed for the Ethereum syste m [8], and
under the name “Proof of Activity” [27]. In contrast to the ab ove examples,
PoS involves a measurement, rather than a consumption of, a r esource.
Disadvantages of Proof-of-Stake. Unfortunately, PoS can only be used
in systems where the “stake” of each ID is globally known. Thu s, it seems
likely to remain relevant primarily in the domain of cryptoc urrencies. More-
over, even within that community, there are concerns about p roof-of-stake.
To quote researcher Dahlia Malkhi: “I think proof-of-stake is fundamentally
vulnerable . . . In my opinion, it’s giving power to people who h ave lots of
money” [35].
2.4 Resource Burning Does Not Require Waste of the Resource
While resource burning requires veriﬁable consumption of a resource, it does
not necessarily require waste of that resource. For example, Von Ahn et
al. [137] developed the reCAPTCHA system which channeled hu man eﬀort
from solving CAPTCHAs into the problem of deciphering scann ed words
that could not be recognized by computer. Their system achie ved an ac-
curacy exceeding professional human transcribers, and was responsible for
sucesssfully transcribing hundreds of millions of words fr om public domain
books.
3Resource burning refers to the game-theoretic money burnin g technique; resource
testing refers to that technique speciﬁcally applied in the wireless domain.
8

In 2018, Ball et al. developed proof-of-work puzzles whose h ardness is
based on worst-case assumptions [25]. These puzzles are bas ed on the Or-
thogonal Vectors, 3SUM, and All-Pairs Shortest Path proble ms, and any
problem that reduces to these problems, including deciding any graph prop-
erty statable in ﬁrst-order logic. Hence, their work enable s design of PoW
puzzles that can be useful for solving computational proble ms of practical
importance.
In [126], Shoker developed proof-of-work puzzles that solv e real-world
matrix-based scientiﬁc computation problems. He named thi s technique
“Proof of Exercise”.
All algorithms discussed in this paper are compatible with t his type of
“useful” resource burning, where the consumption of the res ource solves
practical problems. Our only requirement of the resource bu rning mecha-
nism is that the consumption of the resource be easily veriﬁa ble, which holds
true for the above results.
2.5 A General Model
We discuss broad aspects of a general model for permissionle ss systems. This
allows us to highlight commonalities between diﬀerent appli cation domains,
while retaining the same terminology throughout.
The system consists of virtual identiﬁers (IDs) . An ID is good if it
obeys protocol and belongs to a unique user; otherwise, the I D is bad. Good
and bad IDs cannot necessarily be distinguished a priori .
Communication. Communication is synchronous and occurs either via
point-to-point or via a broadcast primitive. The former is t ypical for peer-
to-peer systems and the general client-server setting. The latter corresponds
to permissionless blockchains, where it is a standard assum ption that a good
ID may send a value to all other good IDs within a known and boun ded
amount of time, despite an adversary; for examples, see [30, 52, 54, 92] and
see [97] for empirical justiﬁcation.
Adversary . A single adversary controls all bad IDs; this pessimistical ly
represents perfect collusion and coordination by maliciou s users. Bad IDs
may arbitrarily deviate from our protocol, including sendi ng incorrect or
spurious messages. The adversary can send messages to any ID at will, and
can view any communications sent by good IDs before sending i ts own. It
knows when good IDs join and depart, but it does not know in adv ance the
private random bits generated by any good ID.
Often, the adversary is assumed to control only an α-fraction of the
network resources, for α > 0. Generally, in settings where correctness is
9

threatened, α must be a small constant; for example, often bounded below
1/3 or 1 /4. Alternatively, there are settings where α can be any constant
bounded away from 1; typically, this corresponds to problem s of performance
(rather than correctness).
T unable Costs. We measure cost as the amount of resource consumed.
Our model is agnostic with respect to the particular resourc e used. However,
we assume that it is possible to arbitrarily tune the cost. In particular, we
assume that, for any value x, an ID can be issued a challenge of diﬃculty
x that will require consumption of x units of whatever resource is used.
Resources such as computation, computer memory, and bandwi dth have
inherently tunable costs. For CAPTCHAs, cost could be adjus ted in two
possible ways. First, by adjusting the diﬃculty of the puzzl e, by either (1)
adjusting the number of alphanumeric digits or the number of images to be
classiﬁed; or (2) adjusting the diﬃculty of an individual re cognition task as
described in the ScatterType CAPTCHA system [24]. Second, b y adjusting
the expected diﬃculty by adjusting a probability of being required to sol ve
a CAPTCHA.
Joins and Departures. Often, the system is dynamic, with IDs joining or
departing over time. There is no a priori method for determining whether a
joining ID is good or bad. Joins and departures by bad IDs may b e scheduled
in a worst-case fashion, and pessimistically we often assum e the adversary
also has a limited ability to schedule these events for good I Ds. We will
generally assume a lower bound on the number of IDs in the syst em, and
that the lifetime of the system is polynomial in this lower bo und.
Key Notation. Through out this work, let T denote the adversarial
spending rate , which is the cost to the adversary over the system life-
time divided by the lifetime of the system. Let the algorithmic spending
rate, A, be the cost to all good IDs over the system lifetime divided b y the
lifetime of the system.
In the blockchain and DHT problems, we let JG denote the good ID
join rate , which is the number of good IDs that join during the system
lifetime divided by the lifetime of the system. Finally, for the review spam
problem, we let PG denote the good posting rate , which is the number of
posts made by good IDs during the system lifetime divided by l ifetime of
the system.
2.6 Game Theoretic Analysis
For many of our problems, we can analyze the defense of a syste m as a
two-player zero sum game [45] as follows. There is an adversa ry that can
10

choose to attack or not, and an algorithm that can choose to de fend or not.
There is a system invariant, which the algorithm seeks to pro tect, that has
some value V . There is a function f that gives the cost incurred when the
algorithm chooses to defend as follows: if the adversary spe nds T to attack,
then the algorithm will spend f (T ) to defend. Thus the payoﬀ matrix for
the algorithm is given below.
Adversary
Attack ¬Attack
Algorithm Defend T − f (T ) −f (0)
¬Defend −V 0
Solving this game, we get that in the Nash equilibrium, the al gorithm
player will defend with probability p = V
T − f (T )+f (0)+V . Thus, the expected
utility of the game to the algorithm player will be − V f (0)
T − f (T )+f (0)+V . In many
of our problems, f (T ) = f (0) + o(T ), and so we obtain a value that is
Θ
(
− V f (0)
T +V
)
. Smaller T optimizes the utility for the adversary, in which
case, the expected utility of the algorithm is Θ( −f (0)).
3 Blockchains and Cryptocurrencies
A blockchain is a distributed ledger. In particular, it is a distributed d ata
structure that stores transactions between IDs in a network . Each transac-
tion represents ﬂow of a resource from one ID to another. Ever y transaction
added must be legitimate, in the sense that the source ID owns the resource
to be transferred, as indicated by the distributed ledger, a t the time of the
transaction. Importantly, transactions can only be added t o the blockchain,
and once added, can never be deleted or edited.
3.1 /BZ/CT/D2/C1/BW and /BW/CT/CU/C1/BW
Perhaps the current, most frequently-used application of r esource-burning
is for blockchains. Permissionless blockchains are vulner able to Sybil at-
tacks [89]. The next two problems use resource burning to def end against
this. Recall that the adversary controls an α-fraction of the resource that is
being burned.
The /BZ/CT/D2/C1/BW Problem. The problem stated below, GenID, was ﬁrst de-
ﬁned and studied by Aspnes, Jackson, and Krishnamurthy [11] . They pro-
posed a solution with latency of 3 rounds, and ˜O(n2) bits sent per good ID,
at a burned resource cost of O(1) per good ID.
11

Open Problem 1. /BZ/CT/D2/C1/BW
Model: Initial set of IDs; n of which are good, with the rest are
controlled by an adversary.
Goal: All good IDs decide on a set of IDs S such that: (1) all good
IDs are in S; and (2) at most a O(α) fraction of the IDs in S are
adversarial.
Several other solutions to GenID have been proposed in the literature [4,
10, 67, 81]. Andrychowicz and Dziembowski described an algo rithm with a
latency of Θ( n) rounds; ˜O(n2) bits sent per good ID; and a burned resource
cost of ˜O(1) per good ID [10]. Concurrent to this work, Katz, Miller an d Shi
[81] proposed another solution with similar costs. Hao et al . [67] improved
on these results via using a randomized leader election prot ocol. Their
algorithm has, in expectation, a latency of Θ
( ln n
ln ln n
)
rounds; ˜O(n) bits sent
per good ID; and a burned resource cost of Θ
( ln n
ln ln n
)
per good ID.
The most recent work in this domain is by Aggarwal et al. [4], w hich
requires in expectation: O(1) latency; O(n) bits sent per good ID; and a
burned resource cost of O(1) per good ID.
It is still not known if these costs can be reduced for the gene ral problem,
or for an “almost-everywhere” versions of the problem, wher e all but a o(1)
fraction of the IDs must learn S. To the best of our knowledge, there are
no current lower-bounds on the problem.
The /BW/CT/CU/C1/BW Problem. The following problem, called DefID, considers
the GenID problem in the presence of churn.
Open Problem 2. /BW/CT/CU/C1/BW
Model: Stream of IDs joining and leaving a network.
Goal: At most an O(α)-fraction of bad IDs in the network at any
time.
A ﬁrst algorithm to solve DefID was proposed in by Gupta, Saia and
Young in [58]. It required algorithmic spend rate of O(JG + T ); recall
that JG is the join rate of good IDs per time step, and T is the spend
rate of the adversary. Note that this result holds without an y additional
assumptions. Gupta, Saia and Young further improved this re sult in [59,60]
to O(JG + √T JG), subject to two assumptions on the join rate of good IDs,
which are found to be supported by real-world data [59].
12

Speciﬁcally, the assumptions needed are as follows. Deﬁne a n epoch to
be the length of time it takes for the fraction of good IDs to ch ange by 3/4
fraction. First, the join rate for good IDs changes by at most a multiplicative
factor between any two successive epochs. Second, in any epo ch the actual
join rate for good IDs over any “suﬃciently large” period of t ime is within
constant factors of the join rate for good IDs over the entire epoch.
An asymptotically matching lower bound was obtained for a la rge class
of algorithms [59]. An open problem is to generalize this bou nd to all algo-
rithms.
4 Distributed Hash Tables
Distributed hash tables (DHTs) are a popular P2P distribute d data struc-
ture [3, 80, 87, 96, 117, 129] with several implementations o ver the years [46,
128, 141]. Generally, the design entails hashing attribute s of a user’s ma-
chine to a key value (or ID) in a virtual space; similarly, for data items. The
various DHT constructions diﬀer in their overlay topologies , but typically
IDs need only maintain state on a small number of neighbors, a nd routing
is possible with a small number of messages, where small mean s at most
logarithmic in the number of IDs in the system.
These systems are vulnerable to attack. A bad ID that partici pates in
routing can drop or corrupt any message it receives. A good ID can be
completely isolated from the rest of the network if all of its neighbors are
bad; this is often referred to as an eclipse attack [63,127]. Finally, content
can be compromised if bad IDs alone are responsible for stori ng a particular
data item. Generally, the behavior of bad IDs is modeled by By zantine
faults. For almost two decades, there has been a sustained in terest in the
design of secure DHTs that can tolerate such attacks [135].
Byzantine F ault T olerance in DHTs. A popular approach to tolerating
bad IDs depends makes use of groups: these are small sets of IDs, each
of which have a good majority. Intuitively, a group is used in place of an
individual peer, and the group members act by using majority action or
secure multiparty computation to coordinate actions. For e xample, routing
can be performed robustly via all-to-all communication bet ween each pair of
groups along the path from source to destination. Examples o f group-based
DHT constructions include [21–23, 48, 72, 105, 122, 125, 151].
As an alternative to using groups, bad IDs may be tolerated by employ-
ing some form of redundant routing [32, 65, 74, 78, 82, 104]. S everal other
results do not explicitly apply to DHTs, although they may be compat-
ible. For example, the challenge of tolerating bad IDs is exa cerbated in
13

highly-dynamic P2P systems, and there is a growing body of wo rk in this
area [14–18, 57]. Self-healing networks are another approa ch for achieving
security, where bad IDs are identiﬁed and evicted [84, 119, 1 20].
In all of these works, a critical assumption is that the fract ion of bad
IDs is a small constant. However, given that DHTs are often pe rmissionless,
this assumption is easily violated via a Sybil attack. Thus, while many tools
have been developed for securing DHTs against Byzantine fau lts, additional
work is required to limit the fraction of bad IDs in the permis sionless setting.
Sybil Resistance. Several approaches have been proposed for mitigating
the Sybil attack. The inﬂuence of bad IDs can be limited via co ntainment
schemes that leverage the network topology in structured ov erlays [124]
and in social networks [7, 86, 99, 143, 152–154]. However, th e information
required—particularly social networks—may not always be a vailable.
An alternative defense is to use measurements of communicat ion latency
or wireless signal strength to verify the uniqueness of IDs [ 26, 38, 53, 91, 140].
However, these techniques are sensitive to measurement acc uracy.
For DHTs, an early result by Danezis et al. [37] gives a heuris tic to limit
the impact of bad IDs using bootstrapping information, but u nfortunately
provides no formal guarantees. Results that employ resourc e burning are
scarce. The use of computational puzzles in decentralized s ystems is ex-
plored by Borisov [31] and Tegeler and Fu [132] as a means for i dentifying
and excluding bad IDs from the system. Computational puzzle s are also used
by Rowaihy et al. [116] to throttle the rate of bad IDs added to a structured
P2P system; however, this does not limit their number. Argua bly the best-
known result is the SybilControl scheme by Li et al. [88], whi ch provides
for a DHT construction that limits the number of bad IDs throu gh the use
of computational puzzles. Good IDs periodically challenge their neighbors
under the Chord DHT topology [129, 130], and blacklist those who do not
respond with a solution in time. Experimental results indic ate that this
approach, in conjunction with limited data replication, al lows for almost all
searches to succeed.
4.1 Why /BW/CT/CU/C1/BW is Not Enough
The DefID problem (Section 3.1) captures many of the challenges requi red
for secure DHTs. However, current solutions to DefID depend heavily on
a means to coordinate resource burning. The main approach is to use a
committee—a small set of IDs with a good majority—which issu e resource-
burning challenges. To apply results on DefID to DHTs requires decentral-
izing the functionality provided by the committee.
14

Additionally, while DefID always guarantees a minority of bad IDs,
this is not enough. In particular, to ensure reliable routin g and protection
from eclipse attacks, group-based approaches demand that a ll groups have
a minority of bad IDs. Fortunately, there are already clever techniques to
spread the bad IDs uniformly across the groups. Informally, when a new ID
joins a group, some IDs in the group are evicted and resettled in random
locations, and their replacements are selected uniformly a t random [21–23,
57].
Unfortunately, performing such shuﬄing for every joining I D, even when
there are no bad IDs in the system, incurs large bandwidth cos ts. A major
open problem is to devise an algorithm that minimizes both ba ndwidth and
resource-burning costs, as a function of adversarial spend rate.
Open Problem 3. A Secure DHT in the Permissionless Set-
ting
Model: The adversary has complete control over the scheduling of
joins and departures for bad IDs and limited control for good IDs.
There is no explicit assumption that the good IDs are in the ma jority
at all times.
Goal: A DHT that enables secure and eﬃcient routing between any
two good IDs in the system.
4.2 The Permissionless DHT Problem
Problem 3 gives our formal problem in this domain. It assumes that the
adversary controls an α < 1/3 fraction of the burnable resource. We now
describe some ideas about how to solve it.
Recall from Section 3.1 that DefID imposes a cost of O(JG + √T JG) on
the good IDs. Informally, a plausible extension to this resu lt is for each group
in the DHT to act as a committee that runs an algorithm to solve DefID. In
many group-based constructions, a good ID belongs to a numbe r of groups
that is logarithmic in the system size. Consequently, the al gorithmic spend
rate is likely to increase by a logarithmic factor. This yiel ds our conjectured
bound of ˜O(√T JG + JG). Note that this aligns with Position 2 since costs
to the good IDs are low when the adversary expends little eﬀort (or does
not attack at all), and grows slowly relative to the adversar y’s cost when
a signiﬁcant attack occurs. In the absence of a single commit tee that can
track global information (such as the join rate of IDs), sett ing the hardness
of challenges is tricky, and new ideas are needed to obtain th e conjectured
15

upper bound.
Finally, while we have focused on DHTs, new defenses for them might
generalize to providing security in permissionless settin gs for other struc-
tured P2P systems [12, 20, 47, 51, 62, 71, 158].
5 Application-Layer DDoS Attacks
A denial-of-service (DoS) attack prevents good IDs from acc essing resources
of a system. A distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack occurs when
multiple bad IDs carry out a coordinated DoS attack. In an app lication-layer
DDoS attacks, an adversary attacks by issuing many requests for system
resources, as opposed to say swamping the network bandwidth . Here, we
discuss defenses against application-layer DDoS attacks b ased on resource
burning.
Filtering Methods. Many DDoS defenses rely on techniques for ﬁltering
out malicious traﬃc, including IP proﬁling [94, 155]; CAPTC HAs [109, 136];
capability-based schemes [9,149] 4; and anomaly detection [70]. An extensive
survey of defenses can be found in [157]. Unfortunately, the se techniques
are imperfect, and an adversary may bypass them by issuing tr aﬃc that
appears legitimate. This has led to resource-burning defen ses against DDoS
attacks, which are sometimes referred to in the literature a s currency-based
or resource-based schemes [139].
Resource-Burning Approaches. A number of proposed defenses require
IDs to solve puzzles before their requests for service are ho nored [19, 76, 77,
112]. A challenging aspect of these proposals is the lack of a theoretically-
backed method to tune the puzzle diﬃculty. To address this is sue, Mankins
et al. [95] propose a pricing mechanism to set the diﬃculty ba sed on the
service-request type; however, the pricing functions are s et by the server a
priori, and may fail as the incentives or capabilities of the attack er change
over time. A dynamic strategy to determine puzzle diﬃculty i s given by
Wang and Reiter [142]. A client requesting service chooses t he puzzle diﬃ-
culty based on the eﬀort it is willing to expend, while the serv er prioritizes
service according to the diﬃculty of the puzzles solved. How ever, this ap-
proach may starve IDs with limited resources, and requires t he server to
maintain state on the diﬃculty of the puzzles solved. Finall y, Noureddine
et al. [108] employ a game-theoretic model to pre-compute th e diﬃculty of
puzzles assuming all IDs (good and bad) are rational.
4Informally, this refers to a scheme where the source makes a “ capability” request and,
if approved by the receiver, will then obtain prioritized se rvice from those routers along
the path between the source and the receiver.
16

An alternative resource—communication capacity—is consu med by the
speak-up defense of Walﬁsh et al. [138]. During an attack, it is common for
bad IDs to bombard the server with requests, using much (or al l) of the data
rate available to the adversary. Speak-up encourages good I Ds to respond in
kind by increasing their respective request rates. A front- end server known
as a “thinner” randomly drops requests in order to impose a ma nageable
service load. If the aggregate capacity of the good IDs is com parable to that
of the bad IDs, then this resource-burning scheme can allow g ood IDs to
obtain a commensurate amount of service.
5.1 The Application-Layer DDoS Problem
There are many similarities between the application-layer DDoS attack and
the Sybil attack. The DDoS model is not purely permissionles s, since the
server is a trusted authority. However, the attacks involve IDs whose dis-
tinctness cannot be ascertained, and where an adversary may create many
bad IDs to facilitate attacks. In this sense, the DDoS model i s a hybrid
of permissionless and permissioned systems. Thus, it is not surprising that
resource burning would be useful to defend against DDoS atta cks.
In this vein, we propose the open problem below.
Open Problem 4. Application-Layer DDoS Attacks
Model: There are n good client IDs and a good server. An adversary
controls an α-fraction of the consumable resource, and can generate
any number of bad client IDs. Client IDs can request service f rom the
server at any time. The server must decide which requests to s ervice
based on its own limited resources.
Goal: The good clients obtain a 1 − O(α) fraction of the service
provided by the server.
Problem 4 shares much in common with DefID (Section 3.1). Requests
from client IDs correspond to join events; satisfying reque sts corresponds
to departures. Here, α need not be bounded, since we are not making a
correctness guarantee analogous to maintaining a good majo rity in DefID.
Rather, our new requirement concerns performance: good IDs receive a
1 − O(α) fraction of service. In this sense, Problem 3 seems strictl y easier
than DefID.
However, a new diﬃculty is heterogeneity: requests may diﬀer in the
amount of eﬀort required to service them. Thus, enforcing a bo und on the
fraction of bad requests serviced does not ensure that the go al of Problem 4
17

will be met. In light of this issue, it may be helpful to consid er a weighted
version of DefID, and whether existing solutions can be extended to this
more general setting. While we are optimistic that for large T , o(T ) is
possible for Problem 4, a tight upper bound is an interesting direction for
future work.
6 Review Spam
Online user-generated reviews play an important role in inﬂ uencing the pur-
chasing decisions of consumers. These systems are subject t o manipulation
where an adversary employs multiple accounts to create fake reviews that
falsely promote or disparage a product [50]; this malicious behavior is often
referred to as review spam , but also goes by other labels such as astroturf-
ing [133] and opinion spam [69].
Review spam threatens online retailers—such as Amazon or Wa lmart [33,
50]—and merchants who depend on income from online sales. Wh ile online
review systems typically have some form of admission contro l, such as re-
quiring credentials for the creation of an account, this can be bypassed. For
example, an attacker can hire users that possess a suﬃcient o nline presence
in order to engage in review spam [36, 66], and social-media c redentials can
be automatically generated [133]; examples of these attack s are described
in [69, 93].
In response to this threat, the research community has propo sed various
strategies for detecting fraudulent reviews; these employ a range of tech-
niques including machine learning [34, 73], anomaly detect ion [123, 145, 146],
linguistic evaluation [79, 115], graph analysis [5, 28, 66] , and many others. A
comprehensive overview of these techniques is given in [64, 144, 150].
Progress in this area oﬀers the ability to classify a review as either spam
or legitimate, with some small error probability; for examp le, the work
in [110] achieve an accuracy of almost 90%. This classiﬁcati on functional-
ity is a promising ingredient for designing more general too ls for mitigating
review spam.
6.1 The Review Spam Problem
The problem of review spam largely aligns with our general mo del in Sec-
tion 2.5. While online systems often require some credentia ls for creating
an account, this admission control can be circumvented, and the system is
eﬀectively permissionless. However, the review spam model h as some novel
features. IDs join the system, but they may never formally de part. Even
IDs that are regularly in use may have periods where the corre sponding user
is oﬄine. Thus, any attempt to simultaneously challenge all IDs, in order
18

to reveal some as bad, will fail.
On the positive side, as noted above, machine learning can no w help.
In particular, we may assume a classiﬁer that correctly clas siﬁes reviews as
spam or not with some ﬁxed probability of error. Over a suﬃcie ntly large
number of reviews, this classiﬁer can be used to obtain a good approximation
of the current fraction of spam reviews, and this informatio n can be used to
set the amount of resource burning required to post a review. Our conjecture
of O(T 2/3 +PG) in Table 1 follows from a preliminary analysis that leverag es
a classiﬁer in this way. Informally, we increase the cost for posting a review
when a signiﬁcant attack is ongoing—that is, many reviews ar e diagnosed
as spam by the classiﬁer. Otherwise, we reset the cost to the l owest level.
We formalize the challenge of review spam as Problem 5.
Open Problem 5. Review Spam
Model: IDs post reviews online. A classiﬁer labels each post as
legitimate or as spam, with some ﬁxed error probability. Eac h spam
post has unit cost, reﬂecting its negative impact on system u sability.
The algorithm can also set an arbitrary resource-burning co st for each
new post, based on the classiﬁcation of past posts.
Goal: Minimize costs due to spam posts plus resource-burning cost s
incurred from legitimate posts.
7 Conclusion
In this paper, we surveyed the literature on resource burnin g and established
it as critical a tool for securing permissionless systems. W e described results
from four domains: blockchains, DHTs, application-layer d istributed DDoS
attacks, and review spam. We noted shared security vulnerab ilities in both
permissionless and hybrid systems, and how resource burnin g is well-suited
for addressing common threats.
We observed that resource burning costs are prohibitively h igh for most
current systems. Thus, a high-priority area for theoretica l research is the
design of resource-burning defenses that reduce these cost s. In particular,
whenever possible, good IDs should spend at a rate which is as ymptotically
less than the adversary when the system is under attack. To en courage
research eﬀorts, we deﬁned several open problems, along with conjectured
upper bounds for these problems.
Acknowledgements. We are grateful to the organizers of SIROCCO 2020
for inviting this paper, and we thank Valerie King for helpfu l feedback on
19

our manuscript.
References
[1] Abadi, M., Burrows, M., Manasse, M., and Wobber, T. Mod-
erately hard, memory-bound functions. ACM Transactions on Inter-
net Technology (TOIT) 5 , 2 (2005), 299–327.
[2] Abraham, I., and Malkhi, D. The Blockchain Consensus Layer
and BFT. Bulletin of the EATCS: Distributed Computing Column
(2017).
[3] Abraham, I., Malkhi, D., and Dobzinski, O. Land: stretch (1+ ǫ)
locality-aware networks for DHTs. In Proceedings of the 15th An-
nual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete algorithms (SODA) (2004),
pp. 550 – 559.
[4] Aggarwal, A., Movahedi, M., Saia, J., and Zamani, M. Boot-
strapping public blockchains without a trusted setup. In Proceedings
of the 2019 ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computi ng
(2019), ACM, pp. 366–368.
[5] Akoglu, L., Chandy, R., and F aloutsos, C. Opinion fraud de-
tection in online reviews by network eﬀects. In Seventh international
AAAI conference on weblogs and social media (2013).
[6] Ali, I. M., Caprolu, M., and Pietro, R. D. Foundations,
properties, and security applications of puzzles: A survey . CoRR
abs/1904.10164 (2019).
[7] Alvisi, L., Clement, A., Epasto, A., Lattanzi, S., and Pan-
conesi, A. Sok: The evolution of sybil defense via social networks. In
Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (2013),
pp. 382–396.
[8] Alyssa Hertig . Ethereum’s Big Switch: The New Roadmap to
Proof-of-Stake. urlwww.coindesk.com/ethereums-big-sw itch-the-new-
roadmap-to-proof-of-stake/, 2017. Online; accessed 28 No vember 2019.
[9] Anderson, T., Roscoe, T., and Wetherall, D. Preventing in-
ternet denial-of-service with capabilities. ACM SIGCOMM Computer
Communication Review 34 , 1 (2004), 39–44.
20

[10] Andrychowicz, M., and Dziembowski, S. Pow-based distributed
cryptography with no trusted setup. In Proceedings of the Annual
Cryptology Conference (2015), Springer, pp. 379–399.
[11] Aspnes, J., Jackson, C., and Krishnamurthy, A. Expos-
ing computationally-challenged byzantine impostors. Tec h. rep.,
Tech. Report YALEU/DCS/TR-1332, Yale University http://w ww.
cs.yale.edu/homes/aspnes/papers/tr1332.pdf, 2005.
[12] Aspnes, J., and Shah, G. Skip graphs. In Fourteenth Annual ACM-
SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA) (2003), pp. 384–
393.
[13] Ateniese, G., Bonacina, I., F aonio, A., and Galesi, N. Proofs
of space: When space is of the essence. In International Conference
on Security and Cryptography for Networks (2014), Springer, pp. 538–
557.
[14] Augustine, J., Molla, A. R., Morsy, E., Pandurangan, G.,
Robinson, P., and Upfal, E. Storage and search in dynamic peer-
to-peer networks. In Proceedings of the Twenty-ﬁfth Annual ACM
Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms and Architectures ( SPAA)
(2013), pp. 53–62.
[15] Augustine, J., Pandurangan, G., and Robinson, P. Fast byzan-
tine agreement in dynamic networks. In Proceedings of the ACM
Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC) (2013),
pp. 74–83.
[16] Augustine, J., Pandurangan, G., and Robinson, P. Fast byzan-
tine leader election in dynamic networks. In Proceedings of the Interna-
tional Symposium on Distributed Computing (DISC) (2015), Springer,
pp. 276–291.
[17] Augustine, J., Pandurangan, G., Robinson, P., Roche, S.,
and Upfal, E. Enabling robust and eﬃcient distributed compu-
tation in dynamic peer-to-peer networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE
56th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FO CS)
(2015), pp. 350–369.
[18] Augustine, J., Pandurangan, G., Robinson, P., and Upfal,
E. Towards robust and eﬃcient computation in dynamic peer-to-
21

peer networks. In Proceedings of the Twenty-third Annual ACM-SIAM
Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA) (2012), pp. 551–569.
[19] Aura, T., Nikander, P., and Leiwo, J. DoS-resistant authentica-
tion with client puzzles. In Proceedings of the International Workshop
on Security Protocols (2000), Springer, pp. 170–177.
[20] A werbuch, B., and Scheideler, C. The hyperring: a low-
congestion deterministic data structure for distributed e nvironments.
In Proceedings of the 15th Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete
Algorithms (SODA) (2004), pp. 318–327.
[21] A werbuch, B., and Scheideler, C. Robust random number gener-
ation for peer-to-peer systems. In Proceedings of the 10th International
Conference On Principles of Distributed Systems (OPODIS) (2006),
pp. 275–289.
[22] A werbuch, B., and Scheideler, C. Towards a scalable and robust
DHT. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM Symposium on Parallelism in
Algorithms and Architectures (SPAA) (2006), pp. 318–327.
[23] A werbuch, B., and Scheideler, C. Towards scalable and robust
overlay networks. In Proceedings of the 6th International Workshop
on Peer-to-Peer Systems (IPTPS) (2007), p. n. pag.
[24] Baird, H. S., Moll, M. A., and W ang, S.-Y. Scattertype: A leg-
ible but hard-to-segment captcha. In Proceedings of the Eighth Inter-
national Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICD AR)
(2005), pp. 935–939.
[25] Ball, M., Rosen, A., Sabin, M., and V asudevan, P. N. Proofs
of work from worst-case assumptions. In Annual International Cryp-
tology Conference (CRYPTO) (2018), Springer, pp. 789–819.
[26] Bazzi, R. A., and Konjevod, G. On the establishment of dis-
tinct identities in overlay networks. In Proceedings24th Annual ACM
Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC) (2005),
pp. 312–320.
[27] Bentov, I., Lee, C., Mizrahi, A., and Rosenfeld, M. Proof of
activity: Extending bitcoin’s proof of work via proof of sta ke [extended
abstract] y. ACM SIGMETRICS Performance Evaluation Review 42 ,
3 (2014), 34–37.
22

[28] Beutel, A., Xu, W., Guruswami, V., Palow, C., and F alout-
sos, C. CopyCatch: Stopping group attacks by spotting lockstep
behavior in social networks. In Proceedings of the 22nd International
Conference on World Wide Web (WWW) (2013), pp. 119–130.
[29] Binmore, K., et al. Playing for real: a text on game theory . Oxford
university press, 2007.
[30] BitcoinWiki. Bitcoinwiki network.
https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Network, 2019. Online; accessed
28 November 2019.
[31] Borisov, N. Computational puzzles as sybil defenses. In Proceedings
of the Sixth IEEE International Conference on Peer-to-Peer Comp ut-
ing (P2P) (2006), pp. 171–176.
[32] Castro, M., Druschel, P., Ganesh, A., Rowstron, A., and
W allach, D. S. Secure routing for structured peer-to-peer overlay
networks. In Proceedings of the 5th Usenix Symposium on Operating
Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI) (2002), pp. 299–314.
[33] CBS News, A. P. Buyer beware: Scourge of fake reviews
hitting Amazon, Walmart and other major retailers, 2019.
https://www.cbsnews.com/news/buyer-beware-a-scourge -of-fake-online-reviews-is-hitting-amazon
-walmart-and-other-major-retailers/ .
[34] Chau, D. H., Pandit, S., and F aloutsos, C. Detecting fraudulent
personalities in networks of online auctioneers. In Proceedings of the
European Conference on Principles of Data Mining and Knowled ge
Discovery (2006), Springer, pp. 103–114.
[35] CoinDesk. Vulnerable? Ethereum’s Casper
Tech Takes Criticism at Curacao Event.
https://www.coindesk.com/fundamentally-vulnerable-e thereums-casper-tech-takes-criticism-curacao .
[36] Cracked. I get paid to write fake reviews for ama-
zon, 2016. https://www.cracked.com/personal-experiences
-2376-i-get-paid-to-write-fake-reviews-amazon.html .
[37] Danezis, G., Lesniewski-laas, C., Kaashoek, M. F., and An-
derson, R. Sybil-resistant DHT routing. In Proceedings of the 10th
European Symposium On Research In Computer Security (ESORICS)
(2005), pp. 305–318.
23

[38] Demirbas, M., and Song, Y. An RSSI-based scheme for sybil
attack detection in wireless sensor networks. In Proceedings of the
2006 International Symposium on on World of Wireless, Mobile and
Multimedia Networks (WOWMOM) (2006), pp. 564–570.
[39] Digiconomist. Bitcoin Energy Consumption Index, 2020.
https://digiconomist.net/bitcoin-energy-consumption.
[40] Dinger, J., and Hartenstein, H. Defending the sybil attack in p2p
networks: Taxonomy, challenges, and a proposal for self-re gistration.
In Proceedings of the First International Conference on Availab ility,
Reliability and Security (ARES) (2006), pp. 756–763.
[41] Douceur, J. The sybil attack. In Proceedings of the Second Interna-
tional Peer-to-Peer Symposium (IPTPS) (2002), pp. 251–260.
[42] Dwork, C., Goldberg, A., and Naor, M. On memory-bound
functions for ﬁghting spam. In Proceedings of the Annual International
Cryptology Conference (2003), Springer, pp. 426–444.
[43] Dwork, C., and Naor, M. Pricing via processing or combatting
junk mail. In Proceedings of the 12th Annual International Cryptology
Conference on Advances in Cryptology (1993), pp. 139–147.
[44] Dziembowski, S., F aust, S., Kolmogorov, V., and Pietrzak,
K. Proofs of space. In Annual Cryptology Conference (2015), Springer,
pp. 585–605.
[45] Easley, D., Kleinberg, J., et al. Networks, crowds, and markets ,
vol. 8. Cambridge university press Cambridge, 2010.
[46] F alkner, J., Piatek, M., John, J. P., Krishnamurthy, A., and
Anderson, T. Proﬁling a million user DHT. In Proceedings of the
7th ACM SIGCOMM Conference on Internet Measurement (2007),
pp. 129–134.
[47] Fiat, A., and Saia, J. Censorship resistant peer-to-peer content ad-
dressable networks. In Proceedings of the Thirteenth ACM Symposium
on Discrete Algorithms (SODA) (2002), pp. 94–103.
[48] Fiat, A., Saia, J., and Young, M. Making chord robust to byzan-
tine attacks. In Proceedings of the 13th European Symposium on Al-
gorithms (ESA) (2005), pp. 803–814.
24

[49] FitzGibbon, C. D., and F anshawe, J. H. Stotting in thomson’s
gazelles: an honest signal of condition. Behavioral Ecology and Socio-
biology 23, 2 (1988), 69–74.
[50] Forbes. Amazon’s fake review problem is getting worse, 2019.
https://www.forbes.com/sites/emmawoollacott/2019/04/16/amazons-fake-review-problem-is-getting-worse/#f 6988195f525.
[51] Fraigniaud, P., and Gauron, P. D2B: A de Bruijn based content-
addressable network. Theoretical Computer Science 355 , 1 (Apr.
2006), 65–79.
[52] Garay, J., Kiayias, A., and Leonardos, N. The bitcoin backbone
protocol: Analysis and applications. In Proceedings of 34th Annual
International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryp to-
graphic Techniques (EUROCRYPT) (2015), pp. 281–310.
[53] Gil, S., Kumar, S., Mazumder, M., Katabi, D., and Rus, D.
Guaranteeing spoof-resilient multi-robot networks. In Proceedings of
Robotics: Science and Systems (Rome, Italy, July 2015).
[54] Gilad, Y., Hemo, R., Micali, S., Vlachos, G., and Zeldovich,
N. Algorand: Scaling byzantine agreements for cryptocurrenc ies. In
Proceedings of the 26th Symposium on Operating Systems Prin ciples
(SOSP) (2017), pp. 51–68.
[55] Gilbert, S., Newport, C., and Zheng, C. Who are you? secure
identities in ad hoc networks. In Proceedings of the 28th International
Symposium on Distributed Computing (DISC) (2014), pp. 227–242.
[56] Gilbert, S., and Zheng, C. Sybilcast: Broadcast on the open
airwaves. In Proceedings of the 25th Annual ACM Symposium on Par-
allelism in Algorithms and Architectures (SPAA) (2013), pp. 130–139.
[57] Guerraoui, R., Huc, F., and Kermarrec, A.-M. Highly dy-
namic distributed computing with byzantine failures. In Proceedings
of the 2013 ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computi ng
(PODC) (2013), pp. 176–183.
[58] Gupta, D., Saia, J., and Young, M. Proof of work without all
the work. In Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Dis-
tributed Computing and Networking (ICDCN) (2018).
25

[59] Gupta, D., Saia, J., and Young, M. Peace through superior
puzzling: An asymmetric sybil defense. In Proceedings of the 33rd
IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symp osium
(IPDPS) (2019), pp. 1083–1094.
[60] Gupta, D., Saia, J., and Young, M. ToGCom: An Asymmetric
Sybil Defense. arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.02893 (2020).
[61] Hartline, J. D., and Roughgarden, T. Optimal mechanism de-
sign and money burning. In Proceedings of the 40th Annual ACM
Symposium on Theory of Computing (2008), pp. 75–84.
[62] Harvey, N. J. A., Jones, M. B., Saroiu, S., Theimer, M., and
Wolman, A. Skipnet: A scalable overlay network with practical
locality properties. In USENIX Symposium on Internet Technologies
and Systems (2003).
[63] Heilman, E., Kendler, A., Zohar, A., and Goldberg, S.
Eclipse attacks on bitcoin’s peer-to-peer network. In Proceedings of
the 24th USENIX Conference on Security Symposium (2015), pp. 129–
144.
[64] Heydari, A., ali Tavakoli, M., Salim, N., and Heydari, Z.
Detection of review spam: A survey. Expert Systems with Applications
42, 7 (2015), 3634 – 3642.
[65] Hildrum, K., and Kubiatowicz, J. Asymptotically eﬃcient ap-
proaches to fault-tolerance in peer-to-peer networks. In Proceedings of
the 17th International Symposium on Distributed Computing (2004),
pp. 321–336.
[66] Hooi, B., Song, H. A., Beutel, A., Shah, N., Shin, K., and
F aloutsos, C.FRAUDAR: Bounding graph fraud in the face of cam-
ouﬂage. In Proceedings of the 22nd ACM SIGKDD International Con-
ference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD) (New York,
NY, USA, 2016), Association for Computing Machinery, pp. 89 5–904.
[67] Hou, R., Jahja, I., Luu, L., Saxena, P., and Yu, H. Randomized
view reconciliation in permissionless distributed system s. 2528–2536.
[68] Huck, S., and M ¨uller, W. Burning money and (pseudo) ﬁrst-
mover advantages: an experimental study on forward inducti on.
Games and Economic Behavior 51 , 1 (2005), 109–127.
26

[69] Hunt, K. M. Gaming the system: Fake online reviews v. consumer
law. Computer Law & Security Review 31 , 1 (2015), 3 – 25.
[70] Hussain, A., Heidemann, J., and Papadopoulos, C. A frame-
work for classifying denial of service attacks. In Proceedings of the
Conference on Applications, Technologies, Architectures, and Proto-
cols for Computer Communications (SIGCOMM) (2003), pp. 99–110.
[71] Jagadish, H., Ooi, B. C., and Vu, Q. H. BATON : A balanced
tree structure for peer-to-peer networks. In Proceedings of the 31st
International conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) (2005),
pp. 661–672.
[72] Jaiyeola, M. O., Patron, K., Saia, J., Young, M., and Zhou,
Q. M. Tiny groups tackle byzantine adversaries. In Proceedings of the
IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symp osium,
IPDPS (2018), pp. 1030–1039.
[73] Jindal, N., and Liu, B. Opinion spam and analysis. In Proceedings
of the 2008 international conference on web search and data m ining
(2008), pp. 219–230.
[74] Johansen, H., Allavena, A., and van Renesse, R. Fireﬂies:
Scalable support for intrusion-tolerant network overlays . In ACM
SIGOPS Operating Systems Review (2006), pp. 3–13.
[75] John, R., Cherian, J. P., and Kizhakkethottam, J. J. A survey
of techniques to prevent sybil attacks. In Proceedings of the Interna-
tional Conference on Soft-Computing and Networks Security (ICS NS)
(2015), pp. 1–6.
[76] Juels, A., and Brainard, J. Client puzzles: A cryptographic coun-
termeasure against connection depletion attacks. In Proceedings of the
Network and Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS) (1999),
pp. 151–165.
[77] Kaiser, E., and Feng, W. c. Mod kaPoW: Mitigating DoS with
transparent proof-of-work. In Proceedings of the 2007 ACM CoNEXT
Conference (2007), pp. 74:1–74:2.
[78] Kapadia, A., and Triandopoulos, N. Halo: High-assurance lo-
cate for distributed hash tables. In Proceedings of the Network and
Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS) (2008).
27

[79] Karami, A., and Zhou, B. Online review spam detection by new
linguistic features. iConference 2015 Proceedings (2015).
[80] Kashoek, M. F., and Karger, D. R. Koorde: A simple degree-
optimal distributed hash table. In Proceedings of the Second Inter-
national Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems (IPTPS) (Berkeley, CA,
2003).
[81] Katz, J., Miller, A., and Shi, E. Pseudonymous secure computa-
tion from time-lock puzzles. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. 2014 (2014),
857.
[82] Khan, S. M., Mallesh, N., Nambiar, A., and Wright, M. K.
The dynamics of salsa: A robust structured p2p system. Network
Protocols and Algorithms 2 (2010), 40–60.
[83] Kiayias, A., Russell, A., David, B., and Oliynykov, R.
Ouroboros: A provably secure proof-of-stake blockchain pr otocol. In
Proceedings of the 37th Annual International Cryptology Conference
(2017), vol. 10401 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science , Springer,
pp. 357–388.
[84] Knockel, J., Saad, G., and Saia, J. Self-healing of byzantine
faults. In Proceedings of the International Symposium on Stabilizatio n,
Safety, and Security of Distributed Systems (SSS) (2013), pp. 98–112.
[85] Laurie, B., and Clayton, R. ”Proof-of-work” proves not to work.
In Proceedings of the 3rd Annual Workshop on Economics and Infor-
mation Security (WEIS) (2004).
[86] Lesniewski-Laas, C., and Kaashoek, M. F. Whanau: A Sybil-
proof distributed hash table. In Proceedings of the 7th USENIX Con-
ference on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (2010),
NSDI’10, pp. 8–8.
[87] Li, D., Lu, X., and Wu, J. FISSIONE: A scalable constant degree
and low congestion DHT scheme based on Kautz graphs. In Proceed-
ings IEEE 24th Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and
Communications Societies. (2005), vol. 3, pp. 1677–1688.
[88] Li, F., Mittal, P., Caesar, M., and Borisov, N. SybilControl:
Practical sybil defense with computational puzzles. In Proceedings of
the Seventh ACM Workshop on Scalable Trusted Computing (2012),
pp. 67–78.
28

[89] Lin, I.-C., and Liao, T.-C. A survey of blockchain security issues
and challenges. IJ Network Security 19 , 5 (2017), 653–659.
[90] Liu, D., and Camp, L. J. Proof of work can work. In Proceedings of
the 5th Workshop on the Economics of Information Security (WEIS)
(2006).
[91] Liu, Y., Bild, D. R., Dick, R. P., Mao, Z. M., and W allach,
D. S. The Mason test: A defense against Sybil attacks in wireless
networks without trusted authorities. IEEE Transactions on Mobile
Computing 14 , 11 (2015), 2376–2391.
[92] Luu, L., Narayanan, V., Zheng, C., Baweja, K., Gilbert, S.,
and Saxena, P. A Secure Sharding Protocol For Open Blockchains.
In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer
and Communications Security (CCS) (2016), pp. 17–30.
[93] Malbon, J. Taking fake online consumer reviews seriously. Journal
of Consumer Policy 36 , 2 (2013), 139–157.
[94] Malliga, S., Tamilarasi, A., and Janani, M. Filtering spoofed
traﬃc at source end for defending against dos/ddos attacks. In Pro-
ceedings of the International Conference on Computing, Communi ca-
tion and Networking (2008), IEEE, pp. 1–5.
[95] Mankins, D., Krishnan, R., Boyd, C., Zao, J., and Frentz, M.
Mitigating distributed denial of service attacks with dyna mic resource
pricing. In Proceedings of the Seventeenth Annual Computer Security
Applications Conference (2001), IEEE, pp. 411–421.
[96] Maymounkov, P., and Mazieres, D. Kademlia: A peer-to-peer in-
formation system based on the xor metric. Lecture Notes in Computer
Science (2002), 53–65.
[97] Miller, A., Litton, J., Pachulski, A., Spring, N.,
Gupta, N., Levin, D., and Bhattacharjee, B. Dis-
covering bitcoin’s public topology and inﬂuential nodes, 2 015.
http://cs.umd.edu/projects/coinscope/coinscope.pdf.
[98] Miller, G. Spent: Sex, evolution, and consumer behavior . Penguin,
2009.
29

[99] Mohaisen, A., and Hollenbeck, S. Improving social network-
based Sybil defenses by rewiring and augmenting social grap hs. In
Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Information Secu-
rity Applications (WISA) (2014), pp. 65–80.
[100] Mohaisen, A., and Kim, J. The Sybil attacks and defenses: A
survey. Smart Computing Review 3 , 6 (2013), 480–489.
[101] M´onica, D., Leitao, L., Rodrigues, L., and Ribeiro, C. On
the use of radio resource tests in wireless ad-hoc networks. In Proceed-
ings of the 3rd Workshop on Recent Advances on Intrusion-Tolerant
Systems (2009), pp. 21–26.
[102] Moran, T., and Orlov, I. Simple proofs of space-time and ratio-
nal proofs of storage. In Annual International Cryptology Conference
(2019), Springer, pp. 381–409.
[103] Nakamoto, S. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System,
2008. http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf.
[104] Nambiar, A., and Wright, M. Salsa: A structured approach to
large-scale anonymity. In Proceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on
Computer and Communications Security (2006), pp. 17–26.
[105] Naor, M., and Wieder, U. Novel architectures for P2P appli-
cations: The continuous-discrete approach. In Proceedings of the
15th ACM Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms and Architecture s
(SPAA) (2003).
[106] Newsome, J., Shi, E., Song, D., and Perrig, A. The Sybil
attack in sensor networks: Analysis & defenses. In Proceedings of
the 3rd International Symposium on Information Processing in Sensor
Networks (IPSN) (2004), pp. 259–268.
[107] Nolan, C. The Dark Knight, 2008. Quote from the scene where the
Joker sets a large pile of money ablaze.
[108] Noureddine, M. A., F awaz, A. M., Hsu, A., Guldner, C., Vi-
jay, S., Bas ¸ar, T., and Sanders, W. H. Revisiting client puzzles
for state exhaustion attacks resilience. In Proceedings of the 49th An-
nual IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems a nd
Networks (DSN) (2019), pp. 617–629.
30

[109] Oikonomou, G., and Mirkovic, J. Modeling human behavior for
defense against ﬂash-crowd attacks. In Proceedings of the IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Communications (2009), IEEE, pp. 1–6.
[110] Ott, M., Choi, Y., Cardie, C., and Hancock, J. T. Finding
deceptive opinion spam by any stretch of the imagination. In Proceed-
ings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa tional
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (USA, 2011), Association
for Computational Linguistics, pp. 309–319.
[111] Park, S., Kwon, A., Fuchsbauer, G., Ga ˇzi, P., Alwen, J.,
and Pietrzak, K. Spacemint: A cryptocurrency based on proofs
of space. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Financial
Cryptography and Data Security (2018), Springer, pp. 480–499.
[112] Parno, B., Wendlandt, D., Shi, E., Perrig, A., Maggs, B.,
and Hu, Y.-C. Portcullis: Protecting connection setup from denial-
of-capability attacks. ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication
Review 37, 4 (2007), 289–300.
[113] Penn, D. J. The evolutionary roots of our environmental problems:
Toward a darwinian ecology. The quarterly review of biology 78 , 3
(2003), 275–301.
[114] Pogue, D. Time to kill oﬀ captchas. Scientiﬁc American 306 , 3
(2012), 23–23.
[115] Rayana, S., and Akoglu, L. Collective opinion spam detection:
Bridging review networks and metadata. In Proceedings of the 21th
ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and
Data Mining (New York, NY, USA, 2015), KDD ?15, Association for
Computing Machinery, pp. 985–994.
[116] Rowaihy, H., Enck, W., McDaniel, P., and La Porta, T. Lim-
iting Sybil attacks in structured P2P networks. In Proceedings of the
26th IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications
(INFOCOM) (2007), pp. 2596–2600.
[117] Rowstron, A. I. T., and Druschel, P. Pastry: Scalable, de-
centralized object location, and routing for large-scale p eer-to-peer
systems. In Proceedings of the IFIP/ACM International Conference
on Distributed Systems Platforms (2001), pp. 329–350.
31

[118] Saad, G. The evolutionary bases of consumption . Psychology Press,
2007.
[119] Saad, G., and Saia, J. Self-healing computation. In Proceedings of
the International Symposium on Stabilization, Safety, and S ecurity of
Distributed Systems (SSS) (2014), pp. 195–210.
[120] Saad, G., and Saia, J. A theoretical and empirical evaluation of an
algorithm for self-healing computation. Distributed Computing 30 , 6
(2017), 391–412.
[121] Saad, G., and Vongas, J. G. The eﬀect of conspicuous consump-
tion on men’s testosterone levels. Organizational Behavior and Human
Decision Processes 110, 2 (2009), 80–92.
[122] Saia, J., and Young, M. Reducing communication costs in robust
peer-to-peer networks. Information Processing Letters 106(4) (2008),
152–158.
[123] Savage, D., Zhang, X., Yu, X., Chou, P., and W ang, Q. De-
tection of opinion spam based on anomalous rating deviation . Expert
Systems with Applications 42 , 22 (2015), 8650 – 8657.
[124] Scheideler, C., and Schmid, S. A Distributed and Oblivious Heap.
In Proceedings of the 36th Internatilonal Collogquium on Automa ta,
Languages and Programming: Part II (2009), ICALP ’09, pp. 571–
582.
[125] Sen, S., and Freedman, M. J. Commensal cuckoo: Secure group
partitioning for large-scale services. ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems
46, 1 (Feb. 2012), 33–39.
[126] Shoker, A. Sustainable blockchain through proof of exercise. In
2017 IEEE 16th International Symposium on Network Computing an d
Applications (NCA) (2017), IEEE, pp. 1–9.
[127] Singh, A., Ngan, T. W., Druschel, P., and W allach, D. S.
Eclipse attacks on overlay networks: Threats and defenses. In Proceed-
ings IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications
(INFOCOM) (2006), pp. 1–12.
[128] Steiner, M., En-Najjary, T., and Biersack, E. W. A global
view of KAD. In Proceedings of the 7th ACM SIGCOMM Conference
on Internet Measurement (2007), pp. 117 – 122.
32

[129] Stoica, I., Morris, R., Karger, D., Kaashoek, M. F., and
Balakrishnan, H. Chord: A scalable peer-to-peer lookup service
for internet applications. In Proceedings of the Conference on Ap-
plications, Technologies, Architectures, and Protocols f or Computer
Communications (SIGCOMM) (2001), pp. 149–160.
[130] Stoica, I., Morris, R. T., Liben-Nowell, D., Karger, D. R.,
Kaashoek, M. F., Dabek, F., and Balakrishnan, H. Chord:
a scalable peer-to-peer lookup protocol for internet appli cations.
IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw. 11 , 1 (2003), 17–32.
[131] Sundie, J. M., Kenrick, D. T., Griskevicius, V., Tybur, J. M.,
Vohs, K. D., and Beal, D. J. Peacocks, porsches, and thorstein ve-
blen: Conspicuous consumption as a sexual signaling system . Journal
of personality and social psychology 100 , 4 (2011), 664.
[132] Tegeler, F., and Fu, X. SybilConf: Computational puzzles for
conﬁning sybil attacks. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Communications Workshops (INFOCOM) (2010), pp. 1–2.
[133] The Guardian, G. M. The need to protect the in-
ternet from ‘astroturﬁng’ grows ever more urgent, 2011.
https://www.theguardian.com/environment/georgemonbiot/2011/feb/23/need-to-protect-internet-from-astrot urfing.
[134] Thorstein, V. The theory of the leisure class: An economic study of
institutions. BW Huebsch, 1912.
[135] Urdaneta, G., Pierre, G., and van Steen, M. A survey of DHT
security techniques. ACM Computing Surveys 43 , 2 (2011), 1–53.
[136] Von Ahn, L., Blum, M., Hopper, N. J., and Langford, J.
CAPTCHA: Using hard AI problems for security. In Proceedings of
the International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryp-
tographic Techniques (2003), Springer, pp. 294–311.
[137] Von Ahn, L., Maurer, B., McMillen, C., Abraham, D., and
Blum, M. recaptcha: Human-based character recognition via web
security measures. Science 321, 5895 (2008), 1465–1468.
[138] W alfish, M., Vutukuru, M., Balakrishnan, H., Karger, D.,
and Shenker, S. DDoS defense by oﬀense. In Proceedings of the 2006
Conference on Applications, Technologies, Architectures, and Proto-
cols for Computer Communications (SIGCOMM) (2006), pp. 303–314.
33

[139] W alfish, M., Vutukuru, M., Balakrishnan, H., Karger, D.,
and Shenker, S. DDoS defense by oﬀense. ACM Transactions on
Computer Systems (TOCS) 28 , 1 (2010), 3.
[140] W ang, H., Zhu, Y., and Hu, Y. An eﬃcient and secure peer-to-
peer overlay network. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Local
Computer Networks (2005), pp. 764–771.
[141] W ang, L., and Kangasharju, J. Measuring large-scale distributed
systems: Case of BitTorrent Mainline DHT. In IEEE 13th Interna-
tional Conference on Peer-to-Peer Computing (P2P) (2013), pp. 1–10.
[142] W ang, X., and Reiter, M. K. Defending against denial-of-service
attacks with puzzle auctions. In Proceedings of the 2003 IEEE Sym-
posium on Security and Privacy (2003), p. 78.
[143] Wei, W., Xu, F., Tan, C. C., and Li, Q. SybilDefender: A
defense mechanism for Sybil attacks in large social network s. IEEE
Transactions on Parallel & Distributed Systems 24 , 12 (2013), 2492–
2502.
[144] Wu, Y., Ngai, E. W., Wu, P., and Wu, C. Fake online reviews:
Literature review, synthesis, and directions for future re search. Deci-
sion Support Systems 132 (2020), 113280.
[145] Xie, S., W ang, G., Lin, S., and Yu, P. S. Review spam detec-
tion via temporal pattern discovery. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM
SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Da ta
Mining (New York, NY, USA, 2012), Association for Computing Ma-
chinery, pp. 823–831.
[146] Xie, S., W ang, G., Lin, S., and Yu, P. S. Review spam de-
tection via time series pattern discovery. In Proceedings of the 21st
International Conference on World Wide Web (New York, NY, USA,
2012), WWW’12 Companion, Association for Computing Machin ery,
pp. 635–636.
[147] Yan, J., and El Ahmad, A. S. Usability of captchas or usability
issues in captcha design. In Proceedings of the 4th Symposium on
Usable Privacy and Security (New York, NY, USA, 2008), SOUPS’08,
Association for Computing Machinery, p. 44?52.
[148] Yan, J., and El Ahmad, A. S. Captcha robustness: A security
engineering perspective. Computer 44 , 2 (2011), 54–60.
34

[149] Yang, X., Wetherall, D., and Anderson, T. TV A: A DoS-
limiting network architecture. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Network-
ing 16 , 6 (2008), 1267–1280.
[150] Yingying Ma, and Fengjun Li . Detecting review spam: Challenges
and opportunities. In 8th International Conference on Collaborative
Computing: Networking, Applications and Worksharing (Colla borate-
Com) (2012), pp. 651–654.
[151] Young, M., Kate, A., Goldberg, I., and Karsten, M. Towards
practical communication in Byzantine-resistant DHTs. IEEE/ACM
Transactions on Networking 21 , 1 (Feb. 2013), 190–203.
[152] Yu, H. Sybil defenses via social networks: A tutorial and survey.
SIGACT News 42 , 3 (Oct. 2011), 80–101.
[153] Yu, H., Gibbons, P. B., Kaminsky, M., and Xiao, F. Sybil-
limit: A near-optimal social network defense against sybil attacks.
IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw. 18 , 3 (June 2010), 885–898.
[154] Yu, H., Kaminsky, M., Gibbons, P. B., and Flaxman, A. Sybil-
guard: Defending against Sybil attacks via social networks . Proceed-
ings of the 2006 Conference on Applications, Technologies, A rchitec-
tures, and Protocols for Computer Communications (SIGCOMM) 36
(Aug. 2006), 267–278.
[155] Yu, S., Thapngam, T., Liu, J., Wei, S., and Zhou, W. Dis-
criminating DDoS ﬂows from ﬂash crowds using information di stance.
In Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Network a nd
System Security (2009), IEEE, pp. 351–356.
[156] Zahavi, A. Mate selection - a selection for a handicap. Journal of
theoretical Biology 53 , 1 (1975), 205–214.
[157] Zargar, S. T., Joshi, J., and Tipper, D. A survey of defense
mechanisms against distributed denial of service (DDoS) ﬂo oding at-
tacks. IEEE Communications Surveys Tutorials 15 , 4 (2013), 2046–
2069.
[158] Zatloukal, K. C., and Harvey, N. J. A. Family trees: an ordered
dictionary with optimal congestion, locality, degree, and search time.
In Proceedings of the 15th Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete
algorithms (SODA) (2004), pp. 308–317.
35