UDP NAT and Firewall Puncturing in the Wild
Gertjan Halkes and Johan Pouwelse
Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Mathematics and Comput er Science
Delft University of Technology, P.O. Box 5031, 2600 GA, Delf t, The Netherlands
science@ghalkes.nl, j.a.pouwelse@tudelft.nl
Abstract. Peer-to-Peer (P2P) networks work on the presumption that
all nodes in the network are connectable. However, NAT boxes and ﬁre-
walls prevent connections to many nodes on the Internet. For UDP based
protocols, the UDP hole-punching technique has been propos ed to miti-
gate this problem.
This paper presents a study of the eﬃcacy of UDP hole punching on the
Internet in the context of an actual P2P network. To the best o f our
knowledge, no previous study has provided similar measurem ents. Our
results show that UDP hole punching is an eﬀective method to i ncrease
the connectability of peers on the Internet: approximately 64% of all
peers are behind a NAT box or ﬁrewall which should allow hole p unching
to work, and more than 80% of hole punching attempts between t hese
peers succeed.
Keywords: UDP, NAT, Firewall, Puncturing, Measurements
1 Introduction
In Peer-to-Peer (P2P) systems, computers on the Internet co nnect with each
other in a symmetrical fashion. The computers simultaneously assu me both the
role of client as well as the role of server. This requires that random computers on
the Internet must be able to connect with each other. However, t he deployment
of ﬁrewalls and Network Address Translator (NAT) boxes creates obstacles.
By their very nature, ﬁrewalls are meant to regulate what connect ions are
permitted. Moreover, ﬁrewalls are frequently conﬁgured to allow o nly outgoing
connections, based on the assumption of the client-server model of communica-
tion. Of course, in a P2P setting connections may also be incoming, of ten on
non-standard ports, which these ﬁrewalls don’t allow.
NAT boxes pose a separate but related problem. Although NAT by its elf is
not meant as a connection ﬁltering technology, it does present an o bstacle for
setting up connections: the publicly visible communications endpoint ( IP and
port combination) is not visible for the computer behind the NAT box, and
This work was partially supported by the European Community ’s 7th Frame-
work Programme through the P2P-Next and QLectives projects (grant no. 216217,
231200).

may even be diﬀerent for each remote endpoint. To make matters w orse, NAT
technology is often combined with ﬁrewalling to create an even bigger obstacle
for connection setup.
The techniques for dealing with NATs and ﬁrewalls are well known. For
example, the STUN [9] protocol details how a computer can determin e what
kind of NAT and ﬁrewall is between itself and the public Internet. Con nection
setup can be done through connection brokering or rendez-vous [3]. It should
be noted though that the connection setup techniques are most u seful for UDP
traﬃc. Setting up a connection for TCP traﬃc when both computer s are behind a
NAT/ﬁrewall requires unusual or non-standard use of TCP and IP mechanisms,
and may rely on speciﬁc NAT/ﬁrewall behaviour to work [2].
In this paper we present the results of a measurement study of UD P NAT
and ﬁrewall puncturing “in the wild”. Using the known techniques, we have
implemented a P2P solution for NAT and ﬁrewall puncturing which we th en used
to measure connection setup success. Our results show that usin g puncturing,
connections between many more peers can be set up, which should u ltimately
increase robustness in the P2P network.
2 Related Work
The problems related with NATs and ﬁrewalls and work-arounds for t hese prob-
lems have been described extensively in previous work. The STUN pro tocol [9]
describes how to detect the type of NAT and ﬁrewall between a com puter and
the public Internet and determine its publicly visible address. To do so , it uses
UDP messages (although TCP is also supported) sent to pre-deter mined STUN
servers with public IP addresses. Although the STUN protocol doe s not pro-
vide guarantees about whether the address learnt through it is in f act usable for
connection setup, the techniques described are the most well-kno wn method for
determining NAT and ﬁrewall types.
UDP hole punching was extensively described in [3] (although earlier de -
scriptions exist). The idea is that to allow packets to come in from a re mote
endpoint, the computer behind the NAT or ﬁrewall needs to send so mething to
the remote endpoint ﬁrst. By doing so it creates a “hole” in the NAT o r ﬁrewall
through which communications can proceed. This even works when b oth sides
are behind a NAT/ﬁrewall, when both sides start by punching a hole in t heir
respective NAT/ﬁrewalls.
In this paper we only consider simple hole punching. More elaborate te ch-
niques exist to deal with NAT/ﬁrewalls with more complex behaviour [10 ]. How-
ever, these techniques only apply to a small percentage of the NAT /ﬁrewalls on
the Internet, and are therefore less useful.
Previous studies have shown that a signiﬁcant portion of the Inter net hosts
could be usable in P2P networks using the cited techniques [3, 4, 8]. Ho wever,
none of these studies try to determine to what extent the theore tical ability to
connect is actually usable. The study presented in this paper tries t o ﬁll that
void.

3 Terminology
In the rest of this paper we will use the terminology introduced by th e BEHA VE
working group [1]. Speciﬁcally we will use the following terms and their re spective
abbreviations (see Figure 1 for a graphical explanation of the mapp ing types):
Endpoint-Independent Mapping (EIM) The NAT reuses the port map-
ping for subsequent packets from the same IP address and port t o any remote
IP address and port. So when sending packets to host A and B from the same
internal IP address and port, hosts A and B will see the same external IP
address and port.
Address-Dependent Mapping (ADM) The NAT reuses the port mapping
for subsequent packet from the same internal IP address and po rt to the
same remote IP address, regardless of the remote port . This means that host
A will always see the same external IP address and port, regardless of the
port on host A, but host B will see a diﬀerent mapping.
Address and Port-Dependent Mapping (APDM) The NAT only reuses
the port mapping for subsequent packets using the same internal and re-
mote IP addresses and ports, for the duration of the mapping. Ev en when
communicating from the same internal IP address and port, host A will see
two diﬀerent external IP addresses and/or ports when diﬀerent ports on host
A are used.
Endpoint-Independent Filtering (EIF) The NAT or ﬁrewall allows packets
from any remote IP address and port, for a speciﬁc endpoint on th e NAT or
ﬁrewall.
Address-Dependent Filtering (ADF) The NAT or ﬁrewall allows packets
destined to a speciﬁc endpoint on the NAT or ﬁrewall from a speciﬁc r emote
IP, after a computer behind the NAT of ﬁrewall has sent a single pac ket to
the remote IP.
Address and Port-Dependent Filtering (APDF) The NAT or ﬁrewall al-
lows packets destined to a speciﬁc endpoint on the NAT or ﬁrewall fr om
remote endpoints only after a packet has been sent to that remot e endpoint
from inside the NAT or ﬁrewall.
For the purposes of our experiments there is no diﬀerence betwee n ADM and
APDM as only single endpoints on the diﬀerent hosts are used, which w e will
therefore combine into the abbreviation A(P)DM. Similarly we collapse the def-
initions of ADF and APDF into A(P)DF if the distinction is irrelevant. In [1 0] a
more extensive subdivision is made, but again the distinctions made ar e relevant
only when considering multiple ports or port-prediction techniques.
4 Implementation
We have implemented a UDP NAT/ﬁrewall puncturing scheme as part o f the
Tribler BitTorrent client. Although the Tribler client does not curren tly use
UDP for setting up connections or exchanging data, we use it as a ve hicle to

Fig. 1. When a NAT exhibits Endpoint-Independent Mapping (EIM) beh aviour, hosts
A and B see the same external IP address and port (Y:y) for a particul ar internal IP
and port combination (X:x). If however the NAT type is Addres s (and Port)-dependent
Mapping, hosts A and B see diﬀerent IP/port combinations (Y:y and Z:z). Note that
the IP addresses (Y and Z) can be the same, especially if the NA T has only a single
external address.
deploy our puncturing test software on real users’ machines. Th e puncturing test
builds an swarm, much like the BitTorrent software. However, inste ad of having
a separate tracker, we use a peer at a pre-programmed address and port and
employ a form of Peer EXchange (PEX) to ﬁnd new peers to connect with. The
PEX messages include a (random) peer ID, the IP address and port at which
the peer originating the PEX message communicates with the remote peer, and
the NAT/ﬁrewall type of the remote peer. The latter is included so t he receiving
peer can determine whether it is useful to attempt to connect to t he remote
peer, as certain combinations of mapping and ﬁltering are not able to connect
to each other.
Fig. 2. Rendez-vous for connection setup.
Our implementation tries to make minimal use of centralised componen ts.
Therefore the detection of the NAT and ﬁrewall type are not done using STUN.
Instead, the peers rely on information reported by other peers a nd by checking
if other peers can connect to it without previous communication in th e reverse
direction. Furthermore, peers use other peers as rendez-vous servers (see Fig-
ure 2). If a peer R is connected to two other peers A and B , it can serve as
rendez-vous server for them, even if it is itself behind a NAT box or ﬁ rewall.
It should be noted that due to the generic audience which participat ed in
our trial we expect these numbers to be reasonably representat ive for generic
Internet users. Because using P2P ﬁle-sharing software is typica lly discouraged

in a corporate environment, we do expect a bias towards home user s. Home users
tend to use less professional equipment that is more prone to misbe haviour, which
may negatively impact our connection success rate results.
In the following sections we will describe the tests used by peers to d etermine
their NAT and ﬁrewall types.
4.1 NA T Type Detection
To allow determination of the NAT type of the NAT box (if any) that a p eer is
behind, all peers report the remote address and port they see wh en a connection
is set up. So each peer will receive, from its communication partner, his own
external address and port. If the reports from all communicatio n partners are the
same (or at least a large majority is the same), a peer will determine t hat there is
either no NAT or the NAT has EIM behaviour. Note that the two case s (no NAT
or EIM behaviour) are indistinguishable without a reliable local determ ination
of the local address. Furthermore, the diﬀerence is mostly irrelev ant. If, however,
the reported external IP address and/or port are regularly diﬀe rent, then the
peer concludes that it is behind a A(P)DM NAT.
4.2 Filtering Behaviour Detection
The ﬁltering behaviour of a NAT/ﬁrewall is detected by checking whe ther a
direct connection request arrives before a reverse connection r equest arrives. To
enable this to work, when a peer tries to set up a connection using re ndez-
vous, it will always ﬁrst send a direct connection request to the rem ote peer. In
most cases this direct connection request will arrive at the remote peer before
the reverse connection request from the rendez-vous, unless t he NAT/ﬁrewall
behaviour is A(P)DF. So when for a signiﬁcant fraction of incoming re quests
the direct connection request arrives before any communication in the reverse
direction, the peer concludes that the ﬁltering behaviour is EIF (or there is no
ﬁrewall, which again is indistinguishable). Otherwise it must conclude th at the
ﬁltering type is A(P)DF.
In principle it would be possible for the clients to distinguish between AD F
and APDF. For example, peers could try to deliberately send a direct connection
request to the wrong port. If the ﬁltering is of APDF type, no conn ection can
be setup, and the attempt will always fail. However, if the ﬁrewall us es ADF
type ﬁltering, the attempt will still succeed (assuming the reverse connection
request arrives at the remote peer). Another option is to try to c onnect to peers
behind an A(P)DM type NAT. This should theoretically only succeed fo r peers
behind ADF ﬁrewalls. These experiments should be performed sever al times
before concluding one way or the other.
In our implementation however, we have not let peers try to distingu ish
between APDF and ADF type ﬁltering. We did let A(P)DF peers attemp t to
connect to A(P)DM peers, such that from the collected logs we can later make
the distinction. Because distinguishing between APDF and ADF ﬁlterin g after
the experiments should not provide diﬀerent results, and the frac tion of both

EIM-ADF and A(P)DM peers is small (see Section 5), we felt that inclu ding
this distinction in the client software would provide little beneﬁt.
5 Results
In this section we present the results for two trials. For the purpo ses of data
collection, the peers in the network logged all interesting send and r eceive events
to a local log ﬁle. In the ﬁrst trial (907 peers), peers would not ret ry a failed
connection attempt immediately. After analysing the results of this ﬁrst trial, we
conducted a second trial (1,531 peers) in which peers would perfor m up to three
retries if connection attempts failed. In the ﬁrst trial peers regu larly sent the
collected logs to a central collection server. However, in the secon d trial we used
a less intrusive reporting method which lead to peers with an unﬁltere d Internet
connection being favoured in the results. Therefore we report th e market share
results from the ﬁrst test to ensure correct results. Both trials lasted several
weeks.
5.1 Market Share
Figure 3 shows the detected NAT and ﬁrewall types for 646 out of t he 907
peers in the ﬁrst trial, for which were able to draw a conclusion about the
NAT/ﬁrewall type from the connections they made. The most domin ant type
of NAT/ﬁrewall is EIM-APDF (52%). This includes both simple ﬁrewalls a nd
EIM NATs. Theoretically these can connect to each other through a rendez-vous
peer. The fraction of peers that are behind A(P)DM NATs is only 11% . These
NAT/ﬁrewalls are the biggest obstacle, i.e. they can only connect to EIM-EIF
and EIM-ADF peers. The fraction of A(P)DM NATs is expected to go down, as
more and more vendors start complying with the BEHA VE RFC [1].
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
EIM-EIF EIM-APDF EIM-ADF A(P)DM Blocked
Fraction of peers
NAT/Firewall type
Fig. 3. NAT/ﬁrewall type market share

Table 1. Connection success rate per NAT/ﬁrewall type. Each bar show s the successful
attempts, where retries are shown as increasingly darker sh ades of green.
From
To EIM-EIF EIM-APDF EIM-ADF A(P)DM
EIM-EIF
EIM-APDF
EIM-ADF
A(P)DM
5.2 Connection Success Rate
Next we look at the success rate in setting up a connection between two peers. For
this we only consider those connections for which we have informatio n on both
ends of the connection, and for which we were able to determine the NAT/ﬁrewall
type of both peers. Our results therefore represent 15,545 con nections between
841 peers.
We have split the results out into the diﬀerent NAT/ﬁrewall types we have
distinguished (see Table 1). A ﬁrst thing to note about the results is that even
peers classiﬁed as EIM-EIF only show an 85% success rate. Detailed analysis of
the results shows that this is caused by a small fraction of peers th at consistently
show poor connectability (see Figure 4). Perhaps they are experie ncing high
packet losses due to a saturated link. As the puncturing test is run ning in the
background of a BitTorrent client this is certainly not impossible.
To test our hypothesis, we tried to reproduce the packet droppin g behaviour
in a local test environment using (new) NAT routers. Using TCP side t raﬃc to
saturate the links, we were only able to produce small packet loss ra tes ( ≤ 5%).
To see whether other methods of stressing the routers would pro duce diﬀerent
results, we also performed a similar test using UDP side traﬃc. Using la rge
volumes of UDP packets we could get some routers to drop signiﬁcan t numbers
of packets (50% or more), or even crash completely.
We must stress that we used newly acquired NAT routers, which may be
more resilient to the BitTorrent-like stress test that we subject t hese routers
to. Unfortunately, we currently do not have older router and mod em models,
which may be more susceptible to dropping packets under high TCP loa d. Also,
although the consumer-grade NAT/ﬁrewalls are the prime suspect for dropping
packets, they are by no means the only possible point at which packe ts may
be dropped. Therefore we can not discount packet loss as a cause for reduced
connection success rates.
Another possibility is that certain routers stop functioning correc tly when
their mapping tables are full. This is a well-known problem with some older
types of routers, when used in combination with BitTorrent. Note t hat this does
not mean they do not function at all, but new connections can usually not be

 0
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 0  0.2  0.4  0.6  0.8  1
Cumulative fraction of peers
Per peer connection success rate
Fig. 4. Cumulative distribution of per peer connection success rat e, counting only con-
nections attempts between compatible peers. Connections t o peers with lower success
rates are not counted against peers with a higher connection success rate.
set up anymore, and existing connections can experience signiﬁcan t throughput
reductions. A peer behind such a router may still be reachable over the existing
connections, but all new connection attempts will fail, thereby red ucing the
connection success rate.
The connections between EIM-ADF peers and EIM-A(P)DF peers s ucceed a
little more often than the connections between EIM-EIF peers, bu t this result is
not statistically signiﬁcant as only 36 peers in our test are behind a EI M-ADF
type NAT/ﬁrewall.
Connections to and from peers behind EIM-APDF NAT/ﬁrewalls succ eed a
little less frequently than the connections between EIM-EIF peers . This is not
entirely unexpected. As already noted in the RFC describing the STU N proto-
col [9], even though two peers should be able to communicate given th e classi-
ﬁcation determined here, subtleties in the actual implementation ma y prevent
actual connection setup (see also Section 5.2). Conversely, peer s which should
not be able to connect due to incompatible NAT/ﬁrewall types can on occasion
setup a connection due to similar implementation subtleties.
Behavioural Subtleties In our analysis of the collected logs, we found several
behaviours in NAT boxes that are not well described by the classiﬁca tion we
have used so far. For example, we found that several EIM-APDF N ATs would
occasionally use a diﬀerent external port (similar to A(P)DM NAT beh aviour).
This is one reason why these NATs have lower connection success ra tes.
A second notable behaviour occurs in A(P)DM NATs. The convention al idea
is that these NATs will use a diﬀerent port for each remote endpoint . However,
some A(P)DM NATs appear to use a small set of ports repeatedly. S o although it
is uncertain which of these ports will be used, there is only a small set to choose
from. This could explain why sometimes a connection between an A(P) DM NAT
and an EIM-APDF NAT/ﬁrewall does succeed: because the set is sm all there is

a chance that the EIM-APDF NAT/ﬁrewall actually uses the port th at is chosen
by the A(P)DM NAT, allowing the packet to arrive. This may also explain why
sometimes the connections between two A(P)DM NATs succeed.
A(P)DM to EIM-ADF First Attempt Success One very interesting result
can be seen in the connections from A(P)DM peers to EIM-ADF peer s. If we
assume that a packet sent directly between peers A and B will arrive before a
packet sent at the same time but via a third peer, then the direct co nnection re-
quest will always arrive before the reverse connection request ha s punched a hole.
This results in the direct connection request being dropped at the N AT/ﬁrewall.
If we consider the case where an A(P)DM peer is the originating peer , the re-
verse connection request sent from the EIM-ADF peer will also ver y likely not
arrive at the port that the direct connection request was sent fr om, causing the
packet to be dropped. This means that given the above assumption , we would
expect that connection attempts from A(P)DM peers to EIM-ADF peers will
always fail the ﬁrst time. For the second and later attempts, the ﬁ rewall on the
EIM-ADF side will already have been opened for connections from th e A(P)DM
peer by the reverse connection request of the ﬁrst attempt, allo wing the direct
connection request to pass through.
As we can see from the results, the ﬁrst connection attempt does succeed in
approximately 41% of the cases. The reason for this is that the dire ct connection
request is not always faster than the reverse connection reques t which is sent
through the rendez-vous peer. This is known as a Triangle Inequalit y Violation
(TIV). It is well known that TIVs exist in the round-trip time betwee n nodes [11–
13]. Our connection setup is dependent on one-way delay, and not r ound-trip
time, but many of the underlying causes such as routing policies and p eering
agreements will aﬀect the one-way delay as well. Studies of TIVs in ro und-
trip time seem to indicate that the occurrence of TIVs can be as high as 40%,
although lower numbers are more common.
Another possible explanation for TIVs speciﬁc to our situation is tha t there
is network equipment which requires some setup time when a packet n eeds to
be sent to a host (or AS) with which it has not recently communicated . The
consumer-grade NAT/ﬁrewalls are of course a ﬁrst suspect for s uch behaviour,
but an exploratory test with a small number of such boxes did not ﬁn d any
signiﬁcant extra delay. The only source of extra delay in communicat ing with
“new” IP addresses that we were able to ﬁnd is the ARP protocol us ed in LANs.
However, in our situation it is unlikely that the ARP protocol is the cau se of
TIVs.
Finally, there are other, albeit unlikely, possibilities for the ﬁrst atte mpt to
succeed. First, it is possible that some EIM-ADF ﬁrewalls have very lo ng map-
ping/ﬁlter timeouts. If, after closing the connection, an A(P)DM p eer tries to
establish a new connection before the mapping/ﬁlter has timed out, the ﬁrst
attempt could succeed. To prevent such situations we did not allow n ew con-
nections within 5 minutes, but this could be too short. Second, the t wo peers
could simultaneously try to connect to each other. However, similar ly to the pre-

 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
<30 30 60 90 120 180 240 >240
Fraction of peers
Timeout
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
<30 30 60 90 120 180 240 >240
Fraction of peers
Timeout
Fig. 5. Mapping/ﬁrewall hole timeout without (left) and with (righ t) handshake.
vious explanation, the chances of such an occurrence are very sm all. Third, the
previously mentioned behavioural subtleties may explain a small frac tion of the
successful connections as well. If the A(P)DM NAT uses only a small number
of ports, this signiﬁcantly increases the chance that the EIM-ADF peer actually
attempts the reverse connection to the port the A(P)DM NAT is ex pecting, in
which case the connection setup will succeed.
5.3 Timeout
A ﬁnal measurement we made was the timeout for the mappings/ﬁre wall holes.
This parameter is important when setting the keep-alive interval. To measure
the timeout, we sent UDP packets to a pre-programmed IP addres s and port,
after which a reply was sent with a delay. If the reply was received, t he timeout
was determined to be larger than the delay of the reply. The largest timeout for
which a message was received was determined to be the approximate timeout
for the mapping/ﬁrewall hole.
To ensure a rapid measurement, several messages requesting re plies at dif-
ferent delays were sent at the same time from diﬀerent ports. This setup can
give wrong results for some EIM-ADF NAT/ﬁrewalls which refresh th e timeout
for incoming traﬃc as well as for outgoing traﬃc. Doing so is a securit y risk,
so we expect few ﬁrewalls to behave this way. However, we have for this reason
excluded the (small number) of EIM-ADF NAT/ﬁrewalls from our ana lysis.
The graph on the left in Figure 5 shows the results of this measureme nt.
These results indicate that many ﬁrewalls employ a fairly short timeou t (1 minute
or less) for the created mappings/ﬁrewall holes. However, some N AT/ﬁrewalls,
particularly those based on the Linux kernel, use a longer timeout if m ore than
two packets have been sent on a particular mapping/ﬁrewall hole, a nd at least
one packet has passed in both directions. We therefore also measu red the timeout
where we include an initial handshake before requesting the delayed reply. The
results are shown in the graph on the right in Figure 5. The results ar e markedly
diﬀerent. Most of the NAT/ﬁrewalls that have a 30 second timeout w ithout
the handshake now use a much longer timeout. The default value in th e Linux

kernel is 180 seconds, which may explain the large fraction of peers with that
timeout when using an initial handshake. These diﬀerences between single packet
timeouts and timeouts after an initial handshake are also demonstr ated in [5].
6 Discussion
In the previous section we have seen that NAT/ﬁrewalls do not alway s behave
as simple as the traditional classiﬁcations have suggested. The res ult of this
is that both connections that are expected to succeed do not, an d vice versa.
Although there seems to be a convergence towards BEHA VE compa tible NAT
behaviour (as can be seen by the very small number of A(P)DM NAT b oxes that
are available from stores today), it is unlikely that all behavioural an omalies will
fully disappear.
Our results conﬁrm that over three quarters of the peers on the Internet
(79%) are not directly connectable. The lack of connectability has lo ng been
recognised as a problem in P2P networks [3, 6], especially in video strea ming [7].
However, using a simple rendez-vous mechanism, a further 64% of a ll peers could
potentially set up connections between themselves when using UDP. This would
reduce the connectability problem to a mere 15% of peers, practica lly eliminating
the problem for most P2P applications.
Some have suggested that the problem of NATs obstructing conne ctability
will go away with the introduction of IPv6. However, it should be note d that
most of the problems today are not so much caused by the NAT beha viour, but
rather by the ﬁltering. The vast majority of NAT/ﬁrewalls today ar e of the EIM-
A(P)DF type, which means that their externally visible endpoint is con stant
and therefore not a big obstacle for connectability. The remaining p roblems are
caused by the ﬁltering behaviour, and it is likely that home routers will continue
to include ﬁrewalling by default, even when the switch to IPv6 is made. As such,
the connectability problems will continue to exist and the puncturing techniques
studied in this paper will remain an important tool to overcome these problems.
7 Conclusions
In this paper we have presented the results of a real implementatio n of UDP
NAT and ﬁrewall puncturing, running on random Internet users’ m achines. Our
implementation makes minimal use of central components. Most not ably, peers
detect their NAT and ﬁrewall types solely through communication wit h other
peers.
Our results show that connectable (EIM-EIF) peers form a small m inority
(21%) on the Internet, and that most NATed and ﬁrewalled peers ( 64% of all
peers, EIM-A(P)DF) should theoretically be able to set up connect ions through
a simple rendez-vous mechanism when using UDP. Our results also sho w that
connections between these peers can indeed be set up, with a succ ess rate only
fractionally lower than for connectable peers. As these hosts are the majority of
the peers in Peer-to-Peer networks, we conclude that there is a la rge opportunity

for UDP based Peer-to-Peer protocols to set up many more conne ctions and
therefore create a more robust network.
Finally, our measurements of the NAT mapping/ﬁrewall hole timeout s how
that keep-alive message should be sent at least every 55 seconds t o ensure that
mappings/holes will remain open on almost every NAT/ﬁrewall. This ass umes
that several messages are exchanged within the ﬁrst 30 seconds , because some
NAT/ﬁrewalls extend their timeout if there is more traﬃc than a simple request
and reply.
References
1. Audet, F., Jennings, C.: Network Address Translation (NA T) Behavioral Re-
quirements for Unicast UDP. RFC 4787 (Best Current Practice ) (Jan 2007),
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4787.txt
2. Biggadike, A., Ferullo, D., Wilson, G., Perrig, A.: NATBL ASTER: Establishing
TCP connections between hosts behind NATs. In: SIGCOMM Asia Workshop
(Apr 2005)
3. Ford, B., Srisuresh, P., Kegel, D.: Peer-to-peer communi cation across network ad-
dress translators. In: USENIX 2005 (Apr 2005)
4. Guha, S., Francis, P.: Characterization and measurement of tcp traversal through
nats and ﬁrewalls. In: Proc. of the 5th ACM SIGCOMM Conf. on In ternet Mea-
surement (IMC 2005). pp. 199–211. Berkeley, CA (Oct 2005)
5. H¨ at¨ onen, S., Nyrhinen, A., Eggert, L., Strowes, S., Sar olathi, P., Kajo, M.: An
experimental study of home gateway characteristics. In: Pr oc. of the 10th Internet
Measurement Conference (IMC 2010). Melbourne, Australia ( Nov 2010)
6. Liu, Y., Pan, J.: The impact of NAT on BitTorrent-like P2P s ystems. In: Proc. of
the 9th Int. Conf. on Peer-to-Peer Computing (P2P’09). pp. 2 42–251. Seattle, W A
(Sep 2009)
7. Mol, J., Bakker, A., Pouwelse, J., Epema, D., Sips, H.: The design and deployment
of a bittorrent live video streaming solution. In: Proc. of t he IEEE Int. Symp. on
Multimedia (ISM2009) (Dec 2009)
8. Noh, J., Baccichet, P., Girod, B.: Experiences with a larg e-scale deployment of
stanford peer-to-peer multicast. In: Proc. of the 17th Int. Packet Video Workshop
(PV 2009). pp. 1–9. Seattle, W A (May 2009)
9. Rosenberg, J., Mahy, R., Matthews, P., Wing, D.: Session T raversal Util-
ities for NAT (STUN). RFC 5389 (Proposed Standard) (Oct 2008 ),
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5389.txt
10. Roverso, R., El-Ansary, S., Haridi, S.: NATCracker: NAT combinations matter. In:
Proc. of the 18th Int. Conf. on Computer Communications and N etworks (ICCN
2009). pp. 1–7. San Francisco, CA (Aug 2009)
11. Savage, S., Anderson, T., Aggarwal, A., Becker, D., Card well, N., Collins, A.,
Hoﬀman, E., Snell, J., Vahdat, A., Voelker, G., Zahorjan, J. : Detour: A case for
informed internet routing and transport. IEEE Micro 19(1), 50–59 (1999)
12. Tang, L., Crovella, M.: Virtual landmarks for the intern et. In: Proc. of the 3rd
ACM SIGCOMM Conf. on Internet Measurement (IMC 2003). pp. 14 3–152. Miami
Beach, FL (Oct 2003)
13. Zheng, H., Lua, E.K., Pias, M., Griﬃn, T.G.: Internet rou ting policies and round-
trip-times. In: Proc. of the 6th Int. Workshop on Passive and Active Network
Measurement. pp. 230–250. Boston, MA (Apr 2005)