ListGuard: Mitigating Pollution Attacks on
In-Network Invertible Bloom Lookup Tables
Harish S A∗, Vignesh S∗, Sathwik Kodamarthi∗, Bikraj Shrestha∗, Gollapudi Sasank∗, Mahanth Kumar Valluri∗,
Pravein G Kannan† and Praveen Tammana∗
∗IIT Hyderabad, India. †IBM Research, India.
Abstract—Compact probabilistic data structures (CPDS) such
as Bloom filters, Invertible Bloom Lookup Tables (IBLTs), and
sketches are widely used in network telemetry systems to collect
traffic statistics directly in resource constrained, high-speed
programmable data planes (e.g.,smartNICs and Intel Tofino
switches). While CPDS enable scalable and efficient monitoring,
they also increase the attack surface area. Adversaries can
launch pollution attacks that corrupt stored statistics, leading
to incorrect network management decisions.
In this paper, we presentListGuard, a lightweight system
that detects and recovers flow statistics in IBLT-based telemetry
primitives affected by pollution attacks. Our key idea is to
selectively sample additional flows and use them to resume the
stalled decoding process without modifying the IBLT structure.
Using realistic traces, we demonstrate attacks and show that
ListGuardrestores affected statistics with low memory overhead.
I. INTRODUCTION
High-speed programmable data planes like modern switch
ASICs (e.g.,Intel Tofino [1]) and smartNICs (e.g.,Netronome
Agilio [2]) have fundamentally transformed network moni-
toring and management. They enable line-rate packet pro-
cessing while maintaining fine-grained state directly in the
data plane. This capability has enabled a broad range of in-
network systems for telemetry [3]–[7], load balancing [8], [9],
caching [10], smart rerouting [11]–[13], and security [14]–
[16]. At their core are monitoring primitives that continuously
track traffic statistics (e.g.,flow IDs, packet counts, delays)
in the data plane, which are analyzed to drive network deci-
sions [17].
These primitives operate under tight memory and per-packet
processing constraints imposed by programmable targets. To
meet these constraints, systems rely on hash-based compact
probabilistic data structures (CPDS) such as Bloom filters [18],
Count-Min sketches [19], and Invertible Bloom Lookup Tables
(IBLTs) [20]. We focus on IBLTs, which provide a space-
efficient set representation while supporting a listing (decode)
operation. IBLTs are widely used in prior systems [3], [4],
[11], [21]–[24]. For instance, FlowRadar [3] encodes flow IDs
and their packet counts using an IBLT.
An IBLT employs multiple hash functions to allocate in-
coming elements within a limited memory space. Inevitably,
hash collisions occur, causing multiple elements to occupy the
same memory locations [20], [25]. To recover stored elements,
the listing (or decoding) procedure iteratively “peels” pure
ISBN 978-3-903176-82-9 © 2026 IFIP
cells (cells containing exactly one item) until all elements are
extracted. However, this process is fragile. An adversary can
inject crafted items that pollute pure cells, reduce their count,
and stall decoding. Even a small number of malicious inser-
tions can trigger cascading failures that leave many elements
undecodable [26], [27].
Such pollution attacks target listing failures, impacting
systems like FlowRadar [3] and LossRadar [4], which results
in loss of crucial flow and packet-level details necessary for
network-wide decisions. Essentially, by disrupting flow statis-
tics, attackers can cause load balancing or rerouting strategies
to fail, and lead to misdiagnosis of network failures, thereby
wasting resources on troubleshooting nonexistent issues. For
example, an pollution attack on the IBLT of FlowRadar [3]
might falsely indicate transient loops and black holes, throwing
the network into a state of chaos. Moreover, fine-grained traffic
analysis that require flow level details for anomaly detection
like [28]–[30] will be compromised, receiving only partial flow
and packet-level information.
Existing defenses against such attacks fall into three broad
categories, each with limitations in high-speed programmable
data planes: (1) Structural modifications to IBLTs aim to
strengthen decoding guarantees, but typically incur substantial
memory and computational overhead, making them impracti-
cal for resource-constrained targets [31]–[34]. (2) Traffic-level
restrictions such as rate limiting reduce attacker influence but
at the cost of visibility, as they may discard legitimate flow
information especially since pollution attacks can operate at
low volume. (3) Cryptographic hardening attempts to prevent
collisions. However, even secure hash functions like SHA-
256[35] cannot eliminate collisions due to the pigeonhole
principle [36]. Moreover, IBLTs intentionally apply multiple
hash functions over a limited but shared memory space,
meaning collisions are inherent to their design [20]. More
advanced authentication mechanisms require operations (e.g.,
complex hashing, key management, iterative computations)
beyond the capabilities of programmable data planes [37].
Prior works [27], [38]–[40] have examined pollution at-
tacks on other compact probabilistic data structures, including
Bloom filters [18], Counting Bloom filters [41], sketches [19],
and quotient filters [42]. However, the impact of such attacks
on IBLT-based telemetry systems remains underexplored. In
this work, we empirically extend pollution attacks to IBLTs
under an adversary model (described in §III-A), demonstrating

that crafted insertions can render flow statistics in IBLT-
based monitoring primitives undecodable. To safeguard its
integrity, we presentListGuard, a lightweight system that de-
tects pollution attacks and mitigates their impact byrecovering
undecodable flowsfrom the IBLT’s stalled state.
We tackle two challenges while designingListGuard. First,
it is difficult to ascertain whether the IBLT state has been
altered by malicious traffic or updated by unusual traffic
(e.g.,sudden burst). Second, there are memory constraints 1
and per-packet processing time constraints in high-speed pro-
grammable data planes. Therefore, it is crucial to minimize
memory overheads while maximizing recovery accuracy and
being amenable to implementation on the data plane under
per-packet processing constraints. We address these challenges
through a carefully designed sampling strategy with two
complementary effects. (1) It samples a small fraction of
strategically selected flows that help resume the stalled decod-
ing process of an IBLT and recover flow statistics. (2) Since
adversarial insertions share high collision characteristics, the
same sampling mechanism naturally increases the likelihood
that malicious flows are included in the sampled set. These can
aid fine-grained security systems like deep packet inspectors,
anomaly detection systems to identify the malicious flows
from the sampled flows (more details in §VI and §VII).
The main contributions of this paper are:
•We demonstrate attacks on IBLT based telemetry system
FlowRadar [3]. Due to the lack of attack datasets, we
generate realistic attack traces by interlacing attack traffic
with CAIDA traces so that traffic characteristics observed
in a real network are preserved (§III).
•We design and developListGuard, a system to recover
statistics from the affected IBLT in the event of a pollu-
tion attack (§V).
•We develop a prototype ofListGuardon the Netronome
smartNIC [2] and conduct experiments with realistic
traces [43]. We demonstrate the effectiveness ofList-
Guardin recovering statistics from polluted IBLTs (§X).
II. BACKGROUND
Invertible Bloom Lookup Tables (IBLTs).An Invertible
Bloom Lookup Table (IBLT) maintains a compact represen-
tation of a set while supporting efficient extraction (listing)
operations [20]. An IBLT consists of an array of cells, each
typically maintaining three fields:KeySum,Count, andVal-
ueSum(Fig. 1). Incoming elements are mapped to multiple
indices (cells) using independent hash functions. For each
mapped cell, the element’s identifier is XORed intoKeySum,
theCountis incremented, and the associated value (e.g.,packet
count) is aggregated intoValueSum.
As an example, consider an IBLT of size4with two hash
functionsH 1 andH 2. Fig. 1 illustrates how three flows:a(1
packet),b(2 packets), andc(3 packets) update the structure.
Due to hash collisions, multiple elements may contribute to the
same cell which the XOR-based encoding compactly encodes.
1fast memory is a scarce resource shared with other core network functions.
KeySum - - a a
Count - - 1 1
ValueSum - - 1 1
Flow a
H1(a) H2(a)
KeySum b - b ⊕ a a
Count 1 - 2 1
ValueSum 2 - 3 1
Flow b
H1(b) H2(b)
KeySum b c b ⊕ a a ⊕ c
Count 1 1 2 2
ValueSum 2 3 3 4
Flow c
H1(c) H2(c)
Fig. 1:Inserting flows (elements) into an IBLT
KeySum b c b ⊕ a a ⊕ c
Count 1 1 2 2
ValueSum 2 3 3 4
KeySum - c a a ⊕ c
Count 0 1 1 2
ValueSum 0 3 1 4
extract b 
new pure cell
Fig. 2:Decoding flows (or items) from an IBLT
To retrieve stored elements, the IBLT performs alisting(or
decoding) operation based on iterative peeling. Cells with
Count= 1, referred to aspure cells, contain exactly one
element and can be decoded directly. Once an element is
extracted from a pure cell, its contribution is subtracted (via
XOR) from its other hashed locations, potentially revealing
new pure cells. For instance, in Fig. 2, extractingborc
exposes a new pure cell fora. This process continues until all
elements are recovered or no pure cells remain. The success
of decoding therefore critically depends on the availability of
pure cells.
IBLTs in monitoring primitives.Table I summarizes systems
that rely on IBLTs as a core design component. Owing to
their space efficiency and constant time updates, IBLTs are
well suited for resource constrained programmable data planes
where memory and per-packet processing budgets are tightly
bounded. In network telemetry systems such as FlowRadar [3]
and LossRadar [4], IBLTs are embedded directly within
data plane monitoring primitives and deployed on high-speed
targets (e.g.,Intel Tofino switches [1] and smartNICs [2]).
This design enables line-rate aggregation of flow or packet
statistics without exporting raw traffic to a remote collector.
For example, FlowRadar encodes flow identifiers and counters
inside an IBLT during each epoch and later decodes them to
diagnose failures such as blackholes or transient loops. The
widespread adoption of IBLTs across these systems highlights
their practical importance and motivates the need to ensure
their robustness under adversarial inputs.
TABLE I: Existing systems using IBLTs
Function Systems Role of IBLT
Network
monitoring
FlowRadar [3],
LossRadar [4]
Capture and encode network flow
or packet data for monitoring and
aid in the diagnosis and root cause
analysis of network failures.
Set reconcil-
liation
Graphene [23],
Diff [24],
SmSR [22]
Encodes the symmetric difference
between two sets stored in two
identical IBLTs. The resulting
difference can be listed (decoded).
Error
correction Biff [21]
Generates error correcting codes
through the listing operation of
IBLTs
III. MOTIVATION: ATTACKS ONIBLT
IBLTs are a key component of telemetry systems such
as FlowRadar [3] and LossRadar [4], enabling fine-grained
visibility into flow statistics directly in the data plane. Unlike
traditional sampling based approaches, these systems maintain
compact yet detailed state that supports the computation of

metrics such as entropy [44], number of distinct flows [45],
and heavy hitters [46]. These metrics in turn drive network-
wide functions including traffic engineering [47], DDoS de-
tection [48], and anomaly detection [49]. The correctness of
telemetry data is therefore critical to operational decisions.
However, deploying IBLTs in the data plane increases the
attack surface, as they operate directly on raw network inputs
(packets and flows). An adversary controlling a compromised
host can inject carefully crafted flows to manipulate the IBLT
state through pollution. Such attacks are highly efficient: we
show that injecting as little as1−2% malicious flows can
render more than50% of the stored statistics undecodable
(more in §X).
The consequences are severe: corrupted flow statistics can
mislead load balancing and rerouting mechanisms, trigger
incorrect fault diagnoses, or falsely indicate blackholes and
transient loops in systems like FlowRadar and LossRadar.
Beyond immediate disruption, polluting in-network telemetry
systems create blind spots in network visibility that can
facilitate secondary attacks, like DDoS or data exfiltration.
Repeated attacks may ultimately erode trust in data plane
based telemetry, forcing operators toward less efficient moni-
toring alternatives, increasing operational costs and potentially
degrading network performance. In the following sections, we
formalize the threat model and demonstrate how adversaries
can execute pollution attacks against IBLT based data plane
telemetry systems.
A. Threat model
We consider a network logically partitioned into a control
plane and a data plane. Following commonly adopted assump-
tions in programmable network security [50], we assume: (i)
the control plane is uncompromised, (ii) control-data plane
channels are secure, but (iii) the data plane including end
hosts and interconnecting links may be compromised. An
adversary may compromise a host [51]–[53] and perform Man-
in-The-Middle (MitM) actions like traffic sniffing using the
compromised hosts. The adversary interacts with the IBLT
based monitoring primitive solely through network traffic.
Attack objective.The adversary aims topollutethe IBLT by
injecting crafted flows such that the listing (decode) process
stalls, rendering telemetry statistics (e.g.,flow identifiers and
counters) partially or fully undecodable.
Attacker capabilities.The adversary can (1) observe traffic
inbound and outbound from the compromised host as a MitM
and (2) inject crafted flows to pollute the IBLT. The adversary
cannot directly read, modify, or flip bits inside the device
hosting the IBLT. All influence over the IBLT state occurs
through packet insertions into the network.
Attacker knowledge.Consistent with Kerckhoffs’s principle
[54], we assume the adversary knows the IBLT implementation
and public parameters but not any cryptographic secrets (e.g.,
secret seeds for the hash function). Specifically, the adversary
is aware of: (1) size of IBLT (2) number of hash functions,
(3) the type of hash, and (4) apartial stateof the IBLT. We
Compromised 
host
Data plane device 
housing the IBLT
Benign 
host
Malicious flows
Benign flows
Attacker sniffs benign flows from 
the compromised host as an MitM
1 2 Attacker mimics a local copy of target 
IBLT by inserting the sniffed flows
3 Attacker crafts malicious flows 
targeting set bits in the local IBLT
Benign flows
Fig. 3:Crafting malicious flows that target occupied cells in the IBLT
KeySum f1 f2 f1⊕ f3 - f2⊕ f3 -
Count 1 1 2 0 2 0
m1
 m1
KeySum f1⊕ m1 f2⊕ m1 f1⊕ f3 - f2⊕ f3 -
Count 2 2 2 0 2 0
Fig. 4:Impact of malicious flows on pure cells of an IBLT: malicious flow
m1collides intof1andf2reduces the pure cell count to0. No flows
can be decoded from the IBLT (listing/decoding is stalled).
definepartial stateas the attacker’s inferred knowledge of
which cells are currently occupied in the IBLT (as shown in
Fig. 3). The adversary does not know exact cell contents but
can estimate occupancy over time by observing traffic.
Attacker strategy.The attacker’s goal is to reduce the number
ofpure cellsin the IBLT. To achieve this, the adversary crafts
flows that hash into cells already occupied by existing flows
(Figure 4). By increasing collisions across all hash indices of a
flow, the attacker decreases the likelihood that any cell remains
pure [26]. Since decoding relies on pure cells to iteratively peel
elements, their reduction triggers a cascading stall, preventing
complete extraction of stored flows.
B. Practicality of the adversary
Network monitoring primitives operate in short intervals
calledepochs(e.g.,280ms). At the end of each epoch, the
IBLT state is exported to the control plane for decoding and
analysis, after which it is cleared. We classify an epoch as
affected(i.e.,the attack is successful) if more than50%of its
flows remain undecodable.
Fig. 5 compares two adversaries: (i) adeployment-aware
attacker with precise knowledge of the IBLT parameters,
who crafts flows to collide with occupied cells on all hash
indices, and (ii) adeployment-unawareattacker, who lacks
such knowledge and generates malicious flows at random that
may or may not collide with occupied cells. We evaluate
these attacks on FlowRadar over215epochs using CAIDA
traces [43].
Impact on epoch decodability.The deployment-aware at-
tacker naturally affects more epochs by targeting occupied
cells. However, both attackers inflict significant damage. Even
2−3%malicious flows render a non-trivial fraction of epochs
undecodable.
Practical constraints on targeted attacks.IBLT-based sys-
tems such as FlowRadar and LossRadar are open-sourced, and
their default parameters are publicly documented. However,
in practice, deployments often modify parameters (e.g.,table
size, number of hash functions) or introduce hash random-
ization (e.g.,secret seeds) [55], limiting an attacker’s ability
to precisely target specific cells. Moreover, even when such

0 0.5 1 2 3 4 5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Percentage of malicious flows in each epoch
% of undecodable epochs
Deployment-aware pollution attack
Deployment-unaware pollution attack
Fig. 5:Deployment-aware vs Deployment-unaware pollution attack on
FlowRadar
parameters are known, executing a targeted attack within a
short epoch (order ofms) is challenging. The adversary must
maintain a shadow copy of the IBLT, infer and track cell
occupancy by observing benign flows, and generate5-tuples
that hash to specific cells, all within a tight time budget and
repeated every epoch. At line rates, even producing a small
fraction of constrained malicious flows is computationally de-
manding. Despite these limitations, the attack surface remains.
An attacker need not precisely target cells. He can still increase
collisions and reduce the number of pure cells by crafting
random flows that may or may not collide on all indices.
Conclusion.Deployment-awareattack is often impractical,
but not necessary. Adeployment-unawareattacker can still
degrade performance by crafting malicious flows without
solving per-flow hash constraints or maintaining a shadow
IBLT. Although weaker than precise targeting, Fig. 5 shows
that even modest untargeted traffic can disrupt a substantial
fraction of epochs motivating the need for lightweight detec-
tion and recovery mechanisms. Accordingly, we focus on the
deployment-unawareadversary in the remainder of the paper.
IV. REQUIREMENTS FOR A DETECTION AND
RECOVERY-BASED MITIGATION SYSTEM
Problem Statement.We address the following question:‘How
can we detect and recover statistics lost due to pollution
attacks on IBLT-based monitoring primitives?’. Although pol-
lution attacks stall the listing (decode) process, the flows
themselves remain encoded in the IBLT’s state. Detecting
such stalls and recovering the undecodable flows is therefore
beneficial. Moreover, detection can serve as a trigger for
additional (maybe costly) mitigation actions, while recovery
restores telemetry statistics needed for network decisions.
Design Principle.A practical defense strategy is to first detect
anomalies using lightweight mechanisms and then recover
quickly, enabling optional reactive measures if necessary. This
mirrors common DDoS defense architectures, where inexpen-
sive monitoring detects attacks before costly countermeasures
are deployed [56]. Similarly, for IBLT pollution, our goal is
to detect decode stalls and recover statistics using lightweight
data-plane support, while leaving heavier mitigation strategies
to subsequent stages. Based on this objective, we derive the
following requirements for a detection-and-recovery system
for IBLT-based monitoring primitives:
[R1] Recovery.The system must restore undecodable flows
from a polluted IBLT state.
Recovery Module Control 
plane
Flow samplerItem 
counter
Flow recovery 
Data plane 
primitiveIBLT
Attack detection
Traffic 
ingress
Recovery moduleDetection module
Fig. 6:ListGuard framework
[R2] Detection.The system must detect decode stalls due to
pollution.
[R3] Generality.Apply broadly to in-network systems that
rely on IBLT-based decoding.
[R4] Lightweight.Maintain minimal memory and per-packet
overhead and remain implementable on high-speed pro-
grammable data planes.
V. LISTGUARDDESIGN OVERVIEW
ListGuardis designed to satisfy requirements[R1–R4]. Fig-
ure 6 illustrates the overall workflow, consisting of a detection
module and a recovery module that operate in tandem.
Detection Module.The detection module determines whether
an epoch is affected by pollution and triggers recovery when
necessary ([R2]). To do so, we introduce a lightweightitem
counterin the data plane that tracks the number of distinct
flows inserted into the IBLT. After decoding, the control plane
compares the number of extracted flows with the counter value
to estimate the proportion of undecodable flows. A significant
increase in this proportion signals a decode stall.
Recovery Module.Once a decode stall is detected, the
recovery module extracts undecodable flows from the polluted
IBLT state ([R1]). The core idea is to samplecompletely
colliding flows(flows that collide on all hash outputs) based
on a selection probabilitypin the flow sampler as shown in
Fig. 6. These flows are most likely to reduce pure cells and
stall decoding. By subtracting selected sampled flows from the
IBLT, new pure cells can emerge, allowing the peeling process
to resume. Since the sampled set is a small percentage of the
total flows seen, additional memory requirement is minimal
satisfying ([R4]).
Generality.ListGuard operates alongside the IBLT without
modifying its internal structure. This design allows seam-
less integration with existing IBLT based systems such as
FlowRadar [3] and LossRadar [4], satisfying[R3].
VI. RECOVERY OF UNDECODABLE FLOWS
As shown in Fig. 6, the data plane flow sampler collects
selected flow IDs during each epoch and exports them to the
control plane. When the detection module flags an affected
epoch, these sampled flows are used to recover undecodable
entries from the stalled IBLT.
Resuming a stalled decode.A pollution attack stalls decoding
by eliminatingpure cells. Although decoding halts, many
flows may still be recoverable. Our key idea is to reintroduce
pure cells by subtracting selected sampled flows from the
stalled IBLT state. If this subtraction exposes new pure cells,
the peeling process can resume.

Flow sampler S Only completely colliding flows 
m1 and f5 are sampled as per 
selection probability p 
flow f4 not sampled.
Begin modified decode 
algorithm. Extract f3 and f5 
Key Sum Count
f1 1
f2 1
f1 1
f2 1
f3 1
f3 1
f1
3 completely colliding flows arrive: one malicious flow m1 | two benign flows f4 and f5
3
f3 -> f2 -> f1
Item 
Counter
+3
m1
f5
-
-
-
-
Begin recovery: Subtract 
sampled flow m1 from 
IBLT
Extracted flows: 2 
Item count C: 6
% of undecodable flows: 66%
Recovery threshold R: 50% 
f3
f5
m1
f1
f2
f4
Extracted 
flowlist: L
1 Initial IBLT state: contains 3 flows 
f1, f2 and f3
f2
f1
f2
f3
f3
2
6
Item 
Counter
Key Sum Count
f1 + m1 2
f2 + m1 2
f1 + f4 2
f2 + f4 + f5 3
f3 1
f3 + f5 2
m1
m1
f4
f4
f5
f5
3
m1
f5
-
-
-
-
Key Sum Count
f1 + m1 2
f2 + m1 2
f1 + f4 2
f2 + f4 + f5 3
f3 1
f3 + f5 2
4 Send at end of epoch: (1) Item counter C; (2) IBLT state I; (3) Sampled flow list S;
Traffic ingress
5 6 prune f5 from S
Decode stalled | No pure cells
m1
-
-
-
-
-
Key Sum Count
f1 + m1 2
f2 + m1 2
f1 + f4 2
f2 + f4 2
- 0
- 0
7
-
-
-
-
-
-
Key Sum Count
f1 1
f2 1
f1 + f4 2
f2 + f4 2
- 0
- 0
8
9 Purecells created: Recover 
undecodable flows f1, f2 , f4
10
Data plane primitive Control plane
Modified decode Detection Flow recovery
Fig. 7:ListGuarddetection and mitigation system:IBLT with 2 hash functions — 1⃝initial state of the IBLT contains three flowsf1,f2andf3— 2⃝
three new completely colliding flows arrive and increment the item counter:f4andf5are benign,m1is maliciously crafted. All of them are completely
colliding flows — 3⃝based on the chosen selection probabilityp, the probabilistic sampling technique samples onlym1andf5— 4⃝at the end of the
epoch, send the item counter valueC, the IBLT stateIand the sampled flow listSto the control plane — 5⃝the modified decode algorithm extractsf3and
f5— 6⃝prune / remove the extracted flowf5from sampled flow listS. The decoding process is stalled due to the absence of pure cells — 7⃝check if the
percentage of undecodable flows is greater than recovery thresholdR— 8⃝since the percentage of undecodable flows is greater thanR, begin the recovery
process by pickingm1from the sampled flow list S and subtracting from IBLT — 9⃝use the newly created pure cells to recover flowsf1,f2andf3—
10⃝all the extracted flows are stored in extracted flow listL
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
8.3k 8.7k 9.1k 9.5k 9.9k 10.3k 10.7k
CDF
Number of Completely Colliding Flows
0% Malicious flows 3% Malicious flows 5% Malicious flows
Fig. 8:CDF of number of CCFs across epochs as the percentage of
malicious flows increases
Sampling strategy.Sampling is critical to recovery. Sampling
all flows is impractical due to memory constraints, so we
selectively samplecompletely colliding flows(CCFs). These
are flows whose hash outputs all map to non-empty cells. CCFs
are most responsible for reducing pure cells and are therefore
most useful for restarting decoding. Empirically, we observe
that the number of CCFs increases under attack as shown
in Fig. 8, reinforcing their relevance. Accordingly,ListGuard
samples only CCFs in the data plane.
Sampling all CCFs would still incur high overhead (typi-
cally33–45% of flows per epoch). We therefore apply uniform
probabilistic sampling with selection probabilityp. A smallp
risks insufficient recovery and a largepincreases memory
usage. Empirical evaluation shows thatp= 0.12achieves
full recovery under our workload (§X). Because probabilistic
sampling yields variable sample sizes per epoch, we impose a
fixed memory bound in the data plane. Occasional overflows
are tolerated in practice, as recovery remains effective with
partial samples.
Pruning sampled flow list during decode.Sampled flows
are subtracted from the IBLT to uncover new pure cells.
However, subtracting flows that have already been decoded
would corrupt the state (due to XOR semantics). We therefore
modify the decode procedure to prune sampled flows as they
are extracted (Algorithm 1). That is, every extracted flow from
the IBLT is also removed from the sampled flow listS( 6⃝
in Fig. 7). After decoding stalls, we compute the fraction of
undecodable flows using the item counter. If this exceeds a
thresholdR(50% in our setting), recovery is initiated.
Recovery procedure.Given a stalled IBLTIand the pruned
sampled setS ′, the recovery algorithm iteratively subtracts
flows fromS ′ and invokes the modified decode procedure
whenever new pure cells appear (Algorithm 2). This process
continues untilS ′ is exhausted. In practice, ifpis sufficient,
the majority of flows are recovered. The modified decode
runs in linear time, while the recovery loop is quadratic in
the worst case. Since both execute in the control plane, the
computational cost is acceptable.
While our primary focus is on mitigating adversarial pol-
lution,ListGuardcan also improve the general robustness of

Algorithm 1:ModifiedDecode to prune sampled flows
Input:(1) IBLT stateI(2) Sampled flow listS(3) Item counter valueC
Output:Decoded flowIDs listL
whilepure cells remain in the IBLTdo
extract flowIDffrom IBLT stateI;
iffpresent inSthen
deleteffromS;
end
add extracted flowIDfto listL;
end
calculate percentage of undecodable flows usingLand item counter valueC;
ifundecodable flow percentage is more than recovery thresholdRthen
callRecovery;
end
Algorithm 2:Recovery
Input:(1) stalled IBLT stateI(2) Pruned sampled flow listS ′
Output:Decoded flowIDs listL
whileS ′ is not emptydo
choose flowIDffromS ′;
subtractffromI;
whilepure cells remaindo
callModifiedDecodewithIandSas inputs;
append the extracted flowIDs inL;
end
end
IBLTs. Even in benign scenarios, traffic bursts or temporary
capacity overloads may lead to increased hash collisions,
which can reduce the number of pure cells and potentially
halt decoding.ListGuardcan inherently address these non-
adversarial decode stalls, supporting more reliable telemetry
extraction under varying network conditions.
VII. DETECTION WITHLISTGUARD
The objective of the detection module is to determine
whether an epoch is affected and to trigger recovery accord-
ingly. During each epoch, the item counterCrecords the
number of flows inserted into the IBLT. After decoding, the
control plane compares the number of extracted flows withC
to compute the fraction of undecodable flows (Algorithm 1).
A significant increase in this fraction indicates a decode stall
and activates the recovery module.
Sampling malicious flows.In addition to enabling recovery,
the sampling mechanism provides a reduced set of suspicious
flows for further inspection. As described in Section VI,
ListGuard probabilistically samples completely colliding flows
(CCFs), which are most likely to contribute to decode stalls.
Our findings show that even with just1% of the flows being
malicious, we are able to capture malicious flows in over
99% of the epochs with a selection probability of just0.03
(refer to Fig. 10c for further details).ListGuard’s completely
colliding flow-based sampling strategy ensures that there is a
very high chance of sampling malicious flows in each epoch.
We cannot be certain if the sampled flows contain ma-
licious flows. However, the sampled flows form a compact
candidate set that can be analyzed offline or online using
existing classification techniques [57]. By reducing the search
space from all flows to a small subset,ListGuardlowers the
computational burden of downstream analysis. For instance,
in step 3⃝of Fig. 7, two out of six flows have been sampled.
One of these two sampled flows is malicious. Thus, identifying
one malicious flow among two is certainly less complex than
among six. Since sampling is already required for recovery,
this capability incurs no additional data plane overhead.
Robustness against adaptive adversaries.An attacker aware
ofListGuard’s sampling strategy might attempt to evade it
by crafting partially colliding flows that map to at least one
occupied cell. While this can still push the IBLT toward
undecodability, it also causes more incoming benign CCFs
to be sampled. Despite this,ListGuard’s recovery remains
effective, as any valid sampled CCF can help restore statistics.
We acknowledge that such partially colliding attack flows
will avoid appearing in the sampled flow list, bypassing the
detection mechanism. Exploring such adaptive adversaries is
left to future work.
VIII. MITIGATION STRATEGIES
We summarize complementary mitigation approaches and
assess their suitability for programmable data planes.
Mitigation Strategy 1:Enhanced IBLT constructions provide
stronger listing guarantees using matrix-based designs and
recursion [23], [31], [32]. While improving decode robust-
ness, they incur significant memory and per-packet overhead,
limiting feasibility on resource constrained programmable data
planes [1], [2].
Mitigation Strategy 2:Cryptographic authentication of traf-
fic [33], [34] can help limit adversarial insertions, but it may
be impractical at high packet rates. While some platforms
provide hardware acceleration [2], others lack the instruction
support (e.g.,loops) required for cryptographic operations at
line rate [1]. Furthermore, even when hardware support is
available, enforcing per-packet cryptographic authentication
for telemetry tracking represents a worst-case workload, po-
tentially introducing nontrivial throughput and latency degra-
dation violating requirement[R4].
Mitigation Strategy 3:Hash randomization using secret salts
or pseudorandom functions [55] denies precise targeting by
an attacker. However, attackers can still induce collisions and
eventual decode stall with modestly increased effort (Fig. 5
and Fig. 10h).
Mitigation Strategy 4:Overprovisioning the IBLT by al-
locating additional memory increases the effort required to
induce decode stalls. However, this approach raises data-
plane memory costs and does not guarantee protection against
determined attackers. In resource-constrained environments,
excess memory allocation is expensive and must be carefully
managed. Moreover, even if overprovisioning fails,ListGuard
can recover the compromised statistics.
IX. IMPLEMENTATION OFLISTGUARD
We implementListGuard’s detection and recovery modules
on a Netronome Agilio® CX 1×40GbE SmartNIC [2], along
with a software prototype for evaluation. The IBLT, item
counter, and flow sampler are implemented as data-plane
primitives in Micro-C on the SmartNIC. The SmartNIC is

SmartNIC
IBLT
Receiver serverSender server
Control plane / Host
Flow recovery
Normal NIC
Host
Benign 
workload
Attack flow 
generator
Flow 
Sampler
Item 
Counter
Attack 
detection
Fig. 9:Hardware testbed with2servers and a SmartNIC
hosted on a server equipped with 2× Intel Xeon Silver 4316
CPUs (2.30 GHz), 80 cores, and 256 GB RAM. As shown in
Figure 9, the SmartNIC receives traffic from a separate sender
server via a standard NIC. The sender transmits benign traffic
interlaced with malicious flows. Detection and recovery logic
execute on the host CPU, analogous to the control plane, while
the core control plane logic ofListGuardis implemented in
Python 3.
X. EVALUATION
We evaluateListGuardalong five dimensions: (1) recovery
capability, (2) malicious flow sampling, (3) memory overhead,
(4) latency and throughput impact, and (5) comparison with
alternative mitigation strategies.
Experiment methodology.We measure (1) the fraction of
affected epochs successfully recovered ([R1]) and (2) the frac-
tion of epochs in which malicious flows are sampled ([R2]).
We then quantify memory overhead ([R4]). Next, we note
that pollution attacks on the underlying IBLT cause similar
information loss in both FlowRadar [3] and LossRadar [4].
Eventhough LossRadar performs a symmetric difference be-
tween two IBLTs before decoding, their characteristics under
adversarial influence are near identical as shown in Fig. 10a.
Therefore, results obtained for FlowRadar extend to LossRadar
as well, demonstrating generality ([R3]).
Datasets.We use the CAIDA2018dirA March equinix nyc
trace [43]. The trace is partitioned into280ms epochs (215
total), averaging23K flows per epoch (8.8K–24K range).
IBLT sizes are provisioned based on peak packet/flow counts
following the standard guidelines (1.3∗number of expected
elements) in [20].
A. Recovering undecodable flows
The selection probabilitypcontrols the number of com-
pletely colliding flows (CCFs) sampled per epoch and di-
rectly impacts recovery performance. Figure 10b shows the
relationship betweenpand the fraction of affected epochs
successfully recovered in FlowRadar [3]. As expected, higher
pimproves recovery, while increasing malicious traffic reduces
it.p= 0.10recovers almost all affected epochs for up to5%
malicious flows;p= 0.12consistently achieves full recovery.
These settings sample only0.34%–4% of total flows per epoch
(memory overheads discussed in Section X-C).
B. Malicious Flow Sampling
ListGuarddetects affected epochs deterministically using
the undecodable flow thresholdRand triggers recovery ac-
cordingly. Beyond recovery, sampled CCFs provide a reduced
set of suspicious flows for analysis. Figure 10c shows the
fraction of epochs in which malicious flows are sampled as
a function ofp. A selection probability of0.06captures
malicious flows in nearly all epochs, except in the0.5%
malicious flow % case. To further examine this low-intensity
attack setting, we group consecutive epochs (2–5epochs
per group). As shown in Figure 10d, grouping increases the
likelihood of capturing malicious flows, indicating that flows
missed in one epoch are likely sampled in subsequent epochs.
C. Memory overheads of ListGuard
The selection probabilitypdetermines the number of sam-
pled flows and thus the memory footprint ofListGuard.
Mitigation Strategy 4:Table II comparesListGuardwith
naive overprovisioning. We report the additional memory re-
quired to prevent any epoch from being affected. Across attack
intensities (0.5%–5%),ListGuardrequires1.93×–2.83× less
memory than naive over provisioning. In practice,ListGuard
uses roughly half the additional memory while also enabling
recovery from polluted states.
TABLE II: Memory overhead (comparison with mitigation strategy 4): Data
cells indicate the percentage of extra memory required for complete recovery
of all the epochs
ListGuard with standard IBLT ListGuard with FlowRadar
Malicious
Flow (%) Naive ListGuard savings Naive ListGuard savings
0.5% 0.99% 0.52% 1.94X 0.99% 0.44% 2.26X
1% 1.99% 1.04% 1.93X 1.99% 0.84% 2.38X
2% 2.99% 1.29% 2.32X 2.99% 1.06% 2.83X
3% 3.99% 1.84% 2.18X 4% 1.53% 2.61X
4% 4.99% 2.18% 2.28X 4.99% 2.29% 2.19X
5% 5.99% 2.81% 2.13X 5.99% 2.56% 2.34X
Mitigation Strategy 1:We also compare against LFFZ [31],
which is an IBLT construction that guarantees decoding via
custom matrix-based mappings. However, for≈24K flows,
LFFZ requires69MB of memory, approximately230× more
thanListGuardwhich requires just0.3MB as shown in
Fig. 10g rendering such approaches infeasible for data planes.
Mitigation Strategy 3:Hash randomization removes targeting
precision but does not eliminate pollution. Even with salts,
modest malicious traffic (≥1%) still degrades decoding
(Fig. 10h), necessitating recovery.
D. Per-packet latency
We measure per-packet latency with and withoutListGuard
on the SmartNIC. Tail latency increases by1.64%, while
average latency rises by0.52% (Fig. 10e). The overhead stems
primarily from the flow sampler, which activates only for
completely colliding flows (34–44% of flows). This selective
activation explains the minimal latency impact.
E. Throughput
To measure the throughput ofListGuard, we use TCPRe-
play [58] to replay CAIDA traces from the sender server
in Fig. 9 to the SmartNIC in the receiver server.ListGuard
reduces throughput by only0.026% (Fig. 10f), indicating
negligible performance impact.

0 0.5 1 3 5 7 10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Malicious % in an epoch
undecodable flows/pkts (%)
FlowRadar under attack
LossRadar under attack
(a)Similarity between FlowRadar and LossRadar
0.005 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.1 0.11 0.12
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Selection probabilityp
% of recovered epochs
0.5% mal flows
1% mal flows
3% mal flows
5% mal flows
(b)FlowRadar - Selection probabilitypvs Recovery
0.005 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.1 0.11 0.12
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Selection probabilityp
% epochs mal flows sampled
0.5% mal flows 1% mal flows
5% mal flows 3% mal flows
(c)FlowRadar - Selection probabilitypvs Malicious
sampling
0.005 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.1 0.11 0.12
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Selection probabilityp
% groups with mal sampled
0.5% mal flows
0.5% mal flows- 2 grouped
0.5% mal flows- 3 grouped
0.5% mal flows- 4 grouped
0.5% mal flows- 4 grouped
(d)FlowRadar - Selection probabilitypvs Malicious
sampling (grouped epochs)
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Per-packet latency (ms)
CDF
without ListGuard with ListGuard
(e)FlowRadar - CDF of per packet latency
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45
1.48
1.49
1.49
1.5
Time (sec)
Throughput (gbps)
Without Listguard
With ListGuard
(f)FlowRadar - Per-second throughput
100 101 102 103 104
0
20
40
60
Number of Flows
Memory reqd. (MBs)
ListGuard
LFFZ
(g)Mitigation strategy 1: Tailored algorithm (LFFZ)
0 0.5 1 3 5 7 10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Percentage of malicious flows
% of undecodable flows
vanilla hash function
with salt
with pseudorandom function + salt
(h)Mitigation strategy 3: Hash randomization
2 4 6 8 10 12 14
0
2.5
5
7.5
10
12.5
15
17.5
20
Percentage of malicious flows
Optimal probability (%)
Sampling probability
(i)Dynamic selection probability
Fig. 10:ListGuardevaluation
F . Dynamic sampling probability
So far, our design assumes a fixed sampling probability
pacross epochs. While effective, varying traffic and attack
intensities change the collision pressure on the IBLT, sug-
gesting thatpcan be adapted to input conditions. As a
preliminary extension, we evaluate a dynamic strategy that
adjustspevery10ms using traffic and IBLT health indicators,
includingPureCellRatio(decodability) andTotalFlows(flow
intensity). These features are fed into a lightweight Random
Forest regressor to estimate the sampling probability needed
to maintain decodability.
We observe an approximately linear relationship between
attack intensity and the optimalp(where all affected epochs
are decodable) in Fig. 10i. In simulations with varying attack
rates, the adaptive mechanism predicts an optimalpwith
89.12% accuracy, improving resilience while limiting over-
head. This complements our static design. However, a deeper
study of adaptive policies and hardware feasibility is left for
future work.
XI. RELATED WORK
Securing dataplane systems.[17], [59]–[61] emphasize
the importance of safeguarding data plane systems against
adversarial threats. Our contributions support the fundamental
notion presented in these studies, which underscore the urgent
requirement to defend such systems.
Detection and defense framework for sketches.[39],
[62] present frameworks aimed at securing sketches. TrustS-
ketch [39] leverages secure enclaves to detect malicious mod-
ifications when the hosting device itself is compromised. Our
work complements these efforts by considering a different
threat model where external adversaries interact with the
sketch solely through network traffic, without compromising
the device that hosts the sketch.
XII. CONCLUSION ANDFUTURE WORK
In this work, we design and developListGuarda system
for detecting and recovering from attacks targeting in-network
IBLT based monitoring primitives. By conducting experiments
with realistic traces, we demonstrate the efficacy ofListGuard
in recovering undecodable statistics from a compromised
IBLT. In future work, we plan to develop lightweight tech-
niques to more precisely identify malicious flows within the
sampled set under diverse attack workloads.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This work is supported by the National Security Council
Secretariat (NSCS), India, and the Prime Minister’s Research
Fellowship (PMRF).
REFERENCES
[1] A. Agrawal and C. Kim, “Intel tofino2–a 12.9 tbps p4-programmable
ethernet switch,” inIEEE Hot Chips, 2020.
[2] “Netronome agilio,” https://netronome.com/agilio-smartnics/.
[3] Y . Li, R. Miao, C. Kim, and M. Yu, “{FlowRadar}: A better{NetFlow}
for data centers,” inUSENIX NSDI, 2016.
[4] ——, “Lossradar: Fast detection of lost packets in data center networks,”
inACM CoNEXT, 2016.
[5] X. Chen, S. L. Feibish, Y . Koral, J. Rexford, O. Rottenstreich, S. A.
Monetti, and T.-Y . Wang, “Fine-grained queue measurement in the data
plane,” inACM CoNEXT, 2019.
[6] W. Wang, P. Tammana, A. Chen, and T. E. Ng, “Grasp the root causes in
the data plane: Diagnosing latency problems with spidermon,” inACM
SOSR, 2020.
[7] S. Sengupta, H. Kim, and J. Rexford, “Continuous in-network round-trip
time monitoring,” inACM SIGCOMM, 2022.

[8] N. Katta, M. Hira, C. Kim, A. Sivaraman, and J. Rexford, “Hula:
Scalable load balancing using programmable data planes,” inACM
SOSR, 2016.
[9] R. Miao, H. Zeng, C. Kim, J. Lee, and M. Yu, “Silkroad: Making stateful
layer-4 load balancing fast and cheap using switching asics,” inACM
SIGCOMM, 2017.
[10] X. Jin, X. Li, H. Zhang, R. Soul ´e, J. Lee, N. Foster, C. Kim, and I. Stoica,
“Netcache: Balancing key-value stores with fast in-network caching,” in
ACM SOSP , 2017.
[11] M. Apostolaki, A. Singla, and L. Vanbever, “Performance-driven internet
path selection,” inACM SOSR, 2021.
[12] T. Holterbach, E. C. Molero, M. Apostolaki, A. Dainotti, S. Vissicchio,
and L. Vanbever, “Blink: Fast connectivity recovery entirely in the data
plane,” inUSENIX NSDI, 2019.
[13] K.-F. Hsu, R. Beckett, A. Chen, J. Rexford, and D. Walker, “Contra:
A programmable system for performance-aware routing,” inUSENIX
NSDI, 2020.
[14] J. Xing, Q. Kang, and A. Chen, “{NetWarden}: Mitigating network
covert channels while preserving performance,” inUSENIX Security,
2020.
[15] Z. Liu, H. Namkung, G. Nikolaidis, J. Lee, C. Kim, X. Jin, V . Braver-
man, M. Yu, and V . Sekar, “Jaqen: A{High-Performance}{Switch-
Native}approach for detecting and mitigating volumetric{DDoS}
attacks with programmable switches,” inUSENIX Security, 2021).
[16] Q. Kang, L. Xue, A. Morrison, Y . Tang, A. Chen, and X. Luo, “Pro-
grammable{In-Network}security for context-aware{BYOD}policies,”
inUSENIX Security, 2020.
[17] A. Sanghi, K. P. Kadiyala, P. Tammana, and S. Joshi, “Anomaly
detection in data plane systems using packet execution paths,” inACM
SIGCOMM workshop SPIN, 2021.
[18] B. H. Bloom, “Space/time trade-offs in hash coding with allowable
errors,”Communications of the ACM, vol. 13, no. 7, 1970.
[19] G. Cormode and S. Muthukrishnan, “An improved data stream summary:
the count-min sketch and its applications,”Journal of Algorithms,
vol. 55, no. 1, 2005.
[20] M. T. Goodrich and M. Mitzenmacher, “Invertible bloom lookup tables,”
inIEEE Allerton Conference on Communication, Control, and Comput-
ing, 2011.
[21] M. Mitzenmacher and G. Varghese, “Biff (bloom filter) codes: Fast error
correction for large data sets,” inIEEE ISIT, 2012.
[22] M. Mitzenmacher and R. Pagh, “Simple multi-party set reconciliation,”
Distributed Computing, vol. 31, no. 6, 2018.
[23] A. P. Ozisik, G. Andresen, B. N. Levine, D. Tapp, G. Bissias, and
S. Katkuri, “Graphene: Efficient interactive set reconciliation applied
to blockchain propagation,” inACM SIGCOMM, 2019.
[24] D. Eppstein, M. T. Goodrich, F. Uyeda, and G. Varghese, “What’s
the difference? efficient set reconciliation without prior context,”ACM
SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review, vol. 41, no. 4, 2011.
[25] R. J. Tobin and D. Malone, “Hash pile ups: Using collisions to identify
unknown hash functions,” inIEEE CRiSIS , 2012.
[26] T. Gerbet, A. Kumar, and C. Lauradoux, “The power of evil choices in
bloom filters,” inIEEE/IFIP DSN, 2015.
[27] P. Reviriego and O. Rottenstreich, “Pollution attacks on counting bloom
filters for black box adversaries,” inIEEE CNSM, 2020.
[28] N. Duffield, C. Lund, and M. Thorup, “Estimating flow distributions
from sampled flow statistics,” inACM SIGCOMM, 2003.
[29] C. Estan, K. Keys, D. Moore, and G. Varghese, “Building a better
netflow,”ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review, vol. 34,
no. 4, 2004.
[30] J. Mai, C.-N. Chuah, A. Sridharan, T. Ye, and H. Zang, “Is sampled
data sufficient for anomaly detection?” inACM IMC, 2006.
[31] A. Mizrahi, D. Bar-Lev, E. Yaakobi, and O. Rottenstreich, “Invertible
bloom lookup tables with listing guarantees,”POMACS, vol. 7, no. 3,
2023.
[32] N. Fleischhacker, K. G. Larsen, M. Obremski, and M. Simkin, “Invert-
ible bloom lookup tables with less memory and randomness,”arXiv
preprint arXiv:2306.07583, 2023.
[33] S. Yoo and X. Chen, “Secure keyed hashing on programmable switches,”
inACM SIGCOMM Workshop SPIN, 2021.
[34] I. Oliveira, E. Neto, R. Immich, R. Fontes, A. Neto, F. Rodriguez, and
C. E. Rothenberg, “Dh-aes-p4: on-premise encryption and in-band key-
exchange in p4 fully programmable data planes,” inIEEE NFV-SDN,
2021.
[35] NIST and Q. Dang, “Secure hash standard,” 2015-08-04 00:08:00
2015. [Online]. Available: https://tsapps.nist.gov/publication/get pdf.
cfm?pub id=919060
[36] N. Sklavos, “Book review: Stallings, w. cryptography and network se-
curity: Principles and practice,”Information Security Journal: A Global
Perspective, vol. 23, no. 1-2, 2014.
[37] I. Chenchev, A. Aleksieva-Petrova, and M. Petrov, “Authentication
mechanisms and classification: a literature survey,” inComputing Con-
ference (IC) 2021, vol. 3. Springer.
[38] P. Reviriego, O. Rottenstreich, S. Liu, and F. Lombardi, “Analyzing
and assessing pollution attacks on bloom filters: Some filters are more
vulnerable than others,” inIEEE CNSM, 2021.
[39] Z. Cheng, M. Apostolaki, Z. Liu, and V . Sekar, “Trustsketch: Trustwor-
thy sketch-based telemetry on cloud hosts,” inNDSS, 2024.
[40] P. Reviriego, M. Gonz ´alez, N. Dayan, G. Huecas, S. Liu, and F. Lom-
bardi, “On the security of quotient filters: Attacks and potential coun-
termeasures,”IEEE Transactions on Computers, vol. 73, no. 9, 2024.
[41] F. Bonomi, M. Mitzenmacher, R. Panigrahy, S. Singh, and G. Varghese,
“An improved construction for counting bloom filters,” inEuropean
Symposium on algorithms, 2006.
[42] M. A. Bender, M. Farach-Colton, R. Johnson, R. Kraner, B. C. Kusz-
maul, D. Medjedovic, P. Montes, P. Shetty, R. P. Spillane, and E. Zadok,
“Don’t thrash: how to cache your hash on flash,”Proc. VLDB Endow.,
vol. 5, no. 11, Jul. 2012.
[43] CAIDA Datasets. [Online]. Available: https://www.caida.org/catalog/
datasets/passive dataset/
[44] Y . Hu, D.-M. Chiu, and J. C. Lui, “Entropy based adaptive flow
aggregation,”IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking (TON), vol. 17,
no. 3, 2009.
[45] E. Assaf, R. B. Basat, G. Einziger, and R. Friedman, “Pay for a sliding
bloom filter and get counting, distinct elements, and entropy for free,”
inIEEE INFOCOM, 2018.
[46] V . Sivaraman, S. Narayana, O. Rottenstreich, S. Muthukrishnan, and
J. Rexford, “Heavy-hitter detection entirely in the data plane,” inACM
SOSR, 2017.
[47] T. Benson, A. Anand, A. Akella, and M. Zhang, “Microte: Fine grained
traffic engineering for data centers,” inACM CoNEXT, 2011.
[48] Z. Liu, A. Manousis, G. V orsanger, V . Sekar, and V . Braverman, “One
sketch to rule them all: Rethinking network flow monitoring with
univmon,” inACM SIGCOMM, 2016.
[49] A. Ramachandran, S. Seetharaman, N. Feamster, and V . Vazirani, “Fast
monitoring of traffic subpopulations,” inACM IMC, 2008.
[50] H. Liu, X. Chen, Y . Shen, Q. Huang, Z. Zhou, D. Zhang, and
C. Wu, “Vulnerabilities and attacks of inter-device coordination in
programmable networks,” inIEEE/ACM IWQoS, 2023.
[51] B. Lee, “Vmware esxi security patch,”
https://www.virtualizationhowto.com/2018/11/
vmware-esxi-successful-vm-escape-at-geekpwn2018-security-patch/.
[52] “Salt stack vulnerability,” https://www.
datacenterknowledge.com/security-and-risk-management/
hackers-exploiting-saltstack-vulnerability-hit-data-centers.
[53] L. Constantin, “Hypervisor privilege escalation,” https://thenewstack.io/
privilege-escalation-information-leak-flaws-patched-xen-hypervisor/.
[54] F. A. Petitcolas, “Kerckhoffs’ principle,” inEncyclopedia of Cryptogra-
phy, Security and Privacy, 2025.
[55] E. Boyle, S. Goldwasser, and I. Ivan, “Functional signatures and
pseudorandom functions,” inInternational workshop on public key
cryptography, 2014.
[56] J. Mirkovic and P. Reiher, “A taxonomy of ddos attack and ddos
defense mechanisms,”ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Re-
view, vol. 34, no. 2, 2004.
[57] M. Ahmed, A. N. Mahmood, and J. Hu, “A survey of network anomaly
detection techniques,”Journal of network and computer applications,
vol. 60, 2016.
[58] S.-S. Hong and S. F. Wu, “On interactive internet traffic replay,” in
RAID, 2005.
[59] R. Meier, T. Holterbach, S. Keck, M. St ¨ahli, V . Lenders, A. Singla, and
L. Vanbever, “(self) driving under the influence: Intoxicating adversarial
network inputs,” inACM HotNets, 2019.
[60] Q. Kang, J. Xing, and A. Chen, “Automated attack discovery in data
plane systems,” inUSENIX CSET,2019.
[61] C. Black and S. Scott-Hayward, “Adversarial exploitation of p4 data
planes,” inIFIP/IEEE IM, 2021.
[62] R. Poddar, C. Lan, R. A. Popa, and S. Ratnasamy, “{SafeBricks}:
shielding network functions in the cloud,” inUSENIX NSDI, 2018.