Flocking to Mastodon: Tracking the Great Twitter Migration
Haris Bin Zia,1 Jiahui He,2 Aravindh Raman,3 Ignacio Castro,1 Nishanth Sastry,4 Gareth Tyson2,1
1Queen Mary University of London 2Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (GZ)
3Telefonica Research 4University of Surrey
Abstract
The acquisition of Twitter by Elon Musk has spurred con-
troversy and uncertainty among Twitter users. The move
raised as many praises as concerns, particularly regarding
Musk’s views on free speech. As a result, a large num-
ber of Twitter users have looked for alternatives to Twit-
ter. Mastodon, a decentralized micro-blogging social net-
work, has attracted the attention of many users and the
general media. In this paper, we track and analyze the mi-
gration of 136,009 users from Twitter to Mastodon. Our
analysis sheds light on the user-driven pressure towards
centralization in a decentralized ecosystem and identi-
ﬁes the strong inﬂuence of the social network in platform
migration. We also characterize the activity of migrated
users on both Twitter and Mastodon.
1 Introduction
In October 2022, Elon Musk, a self-declared “free speech
absolutist” acquired Twitter — the social network that he
regarded as the “de facto town square” where public de-
bate takes place. Musk’s takeover has been controversial
and highly publicized. Some users admire Musk and his
takeover, regarding it as crucial for free speech; others
have expressed concerns over increased misinformation
and toxicity.
Regardless of one’s stance, it is undeniable that the
acquisition has led to a series of noteworthy events. On
November 04, 2022, Musk ﬁred half of the 7,500 em-
ployees previously working at Twitter. Two weeks later
(November 17, 2022), hundreds of employees resigned in
response to an ultimatum to commit to “extremely hard-
core” work or leave. These events and the associated pub-
lic backlash, prompted many users to search for alterna-
tives. Figure 1a presents a time series of Google trend
search interest for “Twitter alternatives”. We observe a
large spike on October 28, 2022, the day after Musk’s
takeover. Similarly, Figure 1b shows equivalent search in-
terest for other popular alternatives to Twitter, e.g. Koo
(an Indian micro-blogging and social networking service),
and Hive (a micro-blogging service that permits NSFW
mature content).
One platform that stands out as being particularly
prominent is Mastodon, a decentralized micro-blogging
platform. Although released in 2016, Mastodon has anec-
dotally gathered signiﬁcant attention since October 2022.
It is part of the wider fediverse, in which any person can
create and operate their own Mastodon server (aka “in-
stance”). Each Mastodon instance operates as an indepen-
dent microblogging service, where users can create local
accounts and enjoy similar functions to Twitter (e.g. post-
ing, following). Importantly, these instances can also fed-
erate together, allowing users on one instance to follow
users on another. This means that Mastodon operates in
a decentralized fashion (with people joining independent
instances), while retaining the ability to interact across the
entire globe. This new paradigm has attracted signiﬁcant
attention and has made it an obvious candidate for users
who are unhappy with the Musk acquisition (and the as-
sociated centralization of power in the hands of one indi-
vidual).
This sudden interest in Mastodon offers a unique op-
portunity to study the migration of users between social
networks. This is particularly the case due to the differ-
ing value propositions of the two platforms, with clear
contrasts in the governance and ownership of Twitter vs.
Mastodon. The unusual circumstances of the migration
create further dimensions of analysis. With this context in
mind, we explore the following three research questions:
1
arXiv:2302.14294v1  [cs.SI]  28 Feb 2023

(a)
(b)
Figure 1: Interest over time for the search terms (a) Twit-
ter alternatives and (b) Mastodon, Koo & Hive Social.
• RQ1 How are new users spread across Mastodon in-
stances, and are there any consequences for decen-
tralization?
• RQ2 How much (if at all) does a user’s ego-centric
Twitter follower network inﬂuence their migration to
Mastodon?
• RQ3 What are usage patterns of migrated users
across both platforms?
To address these questions, we track 136,009 unique
twitter users who moved to 2,879 unique Mastodon in-
stances. The main ﬁndings related to our three RQs are as
follows:
• There is a user-driven pressure towards centraliza-
tion on Mastodon (the top 25% most populous in-
stances contain 96% of the users). This pressure is
counterbalanced by the greater activity of the users
on smaller instances. On average, users of single-
user instances post 121% more statuses than users
on bigger instances.
• The social network of users on Twitter inﬂuences
their choice of an instance on Mastodon e.g. 4.09%
of users changed the instance on which they created
an account (when they ﬁrst migrated to Mastodon)
and moved to the instance of choice of their Twitter
followees who migrated to Mastodon as well.
• Users tend to post different content across the two
platforms. On average, only 1.53% of a user’s
Mastodon posts are identical to their Twitter posts.
Twitter hosts more diverse topics ranging from En-
tertainment to Politics, whereas discussions around
Fediverse and Migration dominate on Mastodon.
2 Mastodon Primer
Mastodon is an open-source [15] federated server plat-
form released in 2016. It offers micro-blogging function-
ality, allowing administrators to create their own inde-
pendent Mastodon servers, aka instances. Each unique
Mastodon instance works much like Twitter, allowing
users to register new accounts and share statuses with their
followers – equivalent to tweeting on Twitter. Users can
also boost others’ statuses – equivalent to retweeting on
Twitter.
Instances can work in isolation, only allowing locally
registered users to follow each other. However, Mastodon
instances can also federate, whereby users registered on
one instance can follow users registered on another in-
stance. This results in the instance subscribing to posts
performed on the remote instance, such that they can be
pushed across and presented to local users. For simplic-
ity, we refer to users registered on the same instance as
local, and users registered on different instances as re-
mote. Note that a user registered on their local instance
does not need to register with the remote instance to fol-
low the remote user. Instead, a user just creates a single
account with their local instance; when the user wants to
follow a user on a remote instance, the user’s local in-
stance performs the subscription on the user’s behalf. This
process is implemented using an underlying subscription
protocol, ActivityPub [1]. This makes Mastodon compat-
ible with other decentralised micro-blogging implemen-
tations (notably, Pleroma). The Fediverse, refers to the
growing group of ActivityPub compatible, and therefore
interconnected, applications.
When a user logs in to their local instance, they are
2

Figure 2: Temporal distribution of tweets containing (i)
links to Mastodon instances and (ii) migration related key-
words/ hashtags.
presented with three timelines: ( i) a home timeline, with
statuses shared by the accounts whom the user follows;
(ii) a local timeline, listing the statuses generated within
the same instance; and ( iii) a federated timeline, with all
statuses that have been retrieved from remote instances.
The latter is not limited to remote statuses that the user
follows; rather, it is the union of remote statuses retrieved
by all users on the instance.
3 Data Collection
3.1 Mastodon Accounts from Twitter
We collect a global list of Mastodon instances from
instances.social, which contains a comprehensive index
of Mastodon instances. We compile a set of 15,886
unique instances. We then collect all tweets contain-
ing a link to these Mastodon instances using Twitter’s
Search API.1 Additionally, we collect all tweets contain-
ing the following list of keywords related to the migra-
tion from Twitter: ‘mastodon’, ‘bye bye twitter’, ‘good
bye twitter’; and hashtags #Mastodon, #MastodonMigra-
tion, #ByeByeTwitter, #GoodByeTwitter, #TwitterMigra-
tion, #MastodonSocial, #RIPTwitter. In total, we collect
2,090,940 tweets posted by 1,024,577 users between Oc-
tober 26, 2022 ( i.e. a day before Musk’s takeover) and
November 21, 2022. Figure 2 shows the temporal distri-
1https://api.twitter.com/2/tweets/search/all
Figure 3: Weekly activity on Mastodon instances.
bution of these tweets.
We next search for Mastodon usernames in these
tweets and the accompanying metadata of any ac-
count that posted a tweet ( i.e. display name, loca-
tion, description, URLs, pinned tweet text). Mastodon
usernames take the form @alice@example.com and
https://example.com/@alice, where alice is a username
and example.com is an instance. To map a Mastodon han-
dle to a Twitter account, we do this search in a hierarchi-
cal fashion: We ﬁrst look for Mastodon usernames in user
metadata (e.g. bio) and create a mapping between Twit-
ter account & Mastodon account if one is found. If the
search is unsuccessful at the ﬁrst step, we then look for
Mastodon usernames in the tweet text. To ensure mapping
accuracy, we only map a Twitter account to a Mastodon
account identiﬁed from a tweet text if both the Twitter and
Mastodon usernames are identical.
Using this methodology, we identify the Mastodon ac-
counts of 136,009 Twitter users, which are created across
2,879 unique Mastodon instances. We ﬁnd that 72% of
Twitter users that migrated created a Mastodon account
with the same username that they use on Twitter. 4% of
the Twitter users who create a Mastodon account, have a
(legacy) veriﬁed status (i.e. authentic, notable, and active)
on Twitter, suggesting that even well-established users
have been migrating.
While we track and analyze the migration of a large
number of Twitter users (136,009), the takeover of Twit-
ter by Musk, is likely to have pushed even more users to
migrate who the above methodology cannot identify. In-
deed, on November 12, 2022, Mastodon announced that
over 1 million users had registered since October 27,
3

2022 [16], signiﬁcantly more than our methodology iden-
tiﬁes. To understand the wider activities on the Mastodon
instances, we cross-check the new registrations on the
2,879 instances by crawling their weekly activity from
Mastodon’s Weekly Activity Endpoint.2 Figure 3 shows
the weekly number of registrations, logins and statuses.
We notice a large increase in all three activity metrics af-
ter the Twitter acquisition. Of course, we cannot conﬁrm
that all these users migrated directly from Twitter. How-
ever, given the timeline of registrations, we believe that
it is very likely that a large share of these new users mi-
grated from Twitter.
3.2 Twitter and Mastodon Timelines.
We next crawl both the Twitter and Mastodon timelines
of the migrating users identiﬁed in the previous section.
We use Twitter’s Search API and Mastodon’s Account’s
Statuses Endpoint.3 For each user, we crawl all tweets/s-
tatuses from October 01, 2022 to November 30, 2022.
In total, we gather Twitter timelines for 94.88% of the
users. The rest were suspended (0.08%), deleted/deacti-
vated (2.26%), or the tweets were protected (2.78%). We
crawl the timelines of 79.22% of Mastodon users: the rest
have either not posted a single status (9.20%) or their in-
stances were down at the time of crawl (11.58%). In total,
we gather 16,163,600 tweets, and 5,746,052 Mastodon
statues.
3.3 Followees
We also crawl the user’s followees for both Twitter and
Mastodon accounts. We use the Twitter Follows API 4
and the Mastodon Account’s Following Endpoint5 respec-
tively. Due to the rate limitations of the Twitter’s API we
crawl a sub-sample of 10% of the migrated users. For rep-
resentativity, our sample relies on the followees distribu-
tion takes 5% from above the median value and 5% from
below. In total, we gather followee data for 13,068 users.
This covers 11,453,484 followee relationships.
2https://docs.joinmastodon.org/methods/instance/#activity
3https://docs.joinmastodon.org/methods/accounts/#statuses
4https://api.twitter.com/2/users/:id/following
5https://docs.joinmastodon.org/methods/accounts/#following
Figure 4: Top 30 Mastodon instances Twitter users mi-
grated to.
3.4 Ethical Considerations
The datasets in this paper include both user and post
information, and therefore might have privacy implica-
tions. To overcome any data mishandling, we have ex-
clusively collected the publicly available data following
well-established ethical procedures for social data. We
have obtained a waiver from the ethics committee at the
author’s institution.6 We anonymize the data before use
and store it in a secure silo. Upon acceptance of the pa-
per, anonymized data will be made available to the public,
which we hope will help further works.
4 RQ1: The Centralization Paradox
Mastodon is a decentralized platform, in which users are
(notionally) spread across thousands of independent in-
stances. We therefore ﬁrst test if the migration has resulted
in true decentralization or if Mastodon experiences a para-
dox, whereby the majority of users centralize upon a small
number of servers. Overall, the Twitter users in our dataset
migrate to 2,879 unique Mastodon instances. Figure 4
presents a histogram of the number of users who have
joined the top 30 Mastodon instances. The plot divide ac-
counts into those created before the acquisition, and those
6anonymised for double-blind submission
4

Figure 5: Percentage of users on top 25% instances (w.r.t
number of users).
created after. Interestingly, not all the Mastodon accounts
advertised on Twitter in response to Elon Musk’s acquisi-
tion are new though. 21% of the Mastodon accounts were
created before the Musk’s takeover. Despite Mastodon’s
decentralization efforts, we observe a clear trend towards
centralization: a large number of users migrate to a small
set of instances. In particular, mastodon.social, a ﬂagship
Mastodon instance operated by Mastodon gGmbH, re-
ceives the largest fraction of migrated Twitter users.
We next explore the pressure towards Mastodon cen-
tralization by comparing the percentage of migrated users
with the percentage of instances they join. Figure 5 plots
the distribution of users across the top % of instances. We
ﬁnd that nearly 96% of users join the top 25% of largest
instances (w.r.t number of users). This centralization trend
implies that a small number of instance owners, adminis-
trators and moderators have an impact on a large fraction
of migrated users. Arguably, this means that Mastodon is
at risk of becoming another (semi-)centralized service.
One possible explanation for this trend is that users in-
tend to build a large social network by joining large and
well-known instances. We therefore examine the relation-
ship between the size of instances and social networks by
analyzing the number of followers and followees of users
joining different-sized instances. We analyze all migrated
users who join Mastodon after the Twitter acquisition and
have 30 days old account (to ensure a fair comparison).
This covers 50.59% of all migrated users. We divide the
instances based on quantiles w.r.t number of users. Fig-
ure 6 presents the distribution of instances by the number
of users, CDFs of the number of followers, followees, and
statuses of users on different-sized instances. Contrary to
our hypothesis, users in the bigger instances tend to have
smaller social networks. 13.16% of instances have just
one user, who tends to have more followers, followees,
and statuses than users in more populated instances. Para-
doxically, the single user instances, have 64.88% more
followers, follows 99.04% more users, and posts 121.14%
more statuses (on average) than the users of the bigger in-
stances. This implies that the size of an instance has a lim-
ited impact on the size of a user’s social network. Rather
it mainly depends on the user’s activeness, engagement
and networking. Hence, while large instances have more
users, small instances attract more active users. Manual
inspection suggests that this is because smaller instances
have more dedicated and proactive user bases (whereas
larger ones accumulate more experimental users).
5 RQ 2: Social Network Inﬂuence
There are at least two possible reasons for platform mi-
gration from Twitter to Mastodon, particularly after the
Musk takeover: (i) A user might have decided to move for
ideological reasons, if they disagree with Musk’s actions
after he gained control of Twitter; and ( ii) A user might
have decided to move because a large fraction of the ac-
counts they follow moved (and therefore Twitter has be-
come irrelevant as a platform for them). Of course, these
two reasons are not contradictory or mutually exclusive.
In this section, we attempt to distinguish between these
reasons based on the observation that if a user moves be-
cause their immediate social network moves, a large pro-
portion of their ego network neighbourhood would also
have moved with them. We argue this offers an interest-
ing example of social contagion.
5.1 Twitter vs. Mastodon Social Network
We ﬁrst analyze the size of the social network (i.e. number
of followers & followees) that the migrated users have on
both Twitter and Mastodon. Figure 7 plots the CDF of the
number of followers and followees of migrated users on
both platforms. The median followers and followees that
migrated users have on Twitter are 744 and 787, respec-
tively. Just 152 users (0.11% of total migrated) have no
Twitter followers, and 465 (0.35% of total migrated) have
5

Figure 6: (a) Distribution of instances w.r.t to number of users. (b) CDF of number of followers of users on different-
sized instances. (c) CDF of number of followees of users on different-sized instances. (d) CDF of number of statuses
of users on different-sized instances.
Figure 7: CDF of number of followers and followees of
migrated users on Twitter and Mastodon.
no Twitter followees. In contrast, on Mastodon, 6.01% of
users have no followers, and 3.6% do not follow anyone.
The median followers and followees on Mastodon were
38 and 48, respectively. Interestingly, 1.65% of migrated
users gained a median of 33 more followers on Mastodon
than their Twitter followers. This conﬁrms that these new
users are yet to bootstrap a signiﬁcant social network on
Mastodon. However, we emphasize that the median age
of migrated accounts on Twitter is 11.5 years, in contrast
to just 35 days on Mastodon. Hence, due to these dispro-
portionate ages, the size of the social networks on the two
platforms are not directly comparable.
5.2 Social Network Driven Migration
We next conjecture that a user’s (Twitter) social network
may have an impact on their likelihood of migration. For
Figure 8: CDFs of the fraction of Twitter followees of
each migrated user that (i) moved to Mastodon (blue)
(ii) moved to Mastodon before the user (orange) and (iii)
moved to the same instances on Mastodon as the user
(green).
example, if a user’s friends migrate to Mastodon, this may
encourage them to do the same.
To inspect this, we analyze the followees data from
both Twitter and Mastodon for 10% of the migrated users
(see §3.3). Figure 8 shows CDFs of the fraction of Twit-
ter followees of each migrated user that ( i) moved to
Mastodon (blue); (ii) moved to Mastodon before the user
(orange); and (iii) moved to the same Mastodon instances
as the user (green). We notice that just 5.99% of each
user’s followees also migrate (on average). In fact, for
3.94% of the migrated users, none of their Twitter fol-
lowees move to Mastodon. Thus, the majority of the so-
cial network of the migrated users seems indeed reluctant
to migrate, and sometimes they are the ﬁrst in taking this
6

step.
To better understand this, we compare the date on
which each migrated user joined Mastodon with that of
their Twitter followees who migrated as well. We ﬁnd
that, out of their social network ( i.e. their followees),
4.98% of the migrated users were the ﬁrst and 4.58% were
the last to migrate from Twitter to Mastodon. On average,
45.76% of the followees of a user migrated to Mastodon
before the user actually did.
We are also curious to understand if users select the
same Mastodon instance as their social network. We
therefore compare the instance of each migrated user with
that of its Twitter followees. On average, 14.72% of each
migrated user’s followees (that move to Mastodon) join
the same instance. With 15K+ Mastodon instances, this is
a considerable proportion, suggesting a clear network ef-
fect. However, we also notice that this average is highly
impacted by one ﬂagship instance: mastodon.social. This
is the largest instance available, and is probably the best
known. Of all the migrated users whose Twitter followees
move to the same instance, 30.68% are on mastodon.
social. That said, we also ﬁnd small instances that at-
tract signiﬁcant proportions of a given user’s Twitter fol-
lowers. For example, 4.5% of the migrated users whose
Twitter followees join them on the same instance are on
mastodon.gamedev.place (a Mastodon server focused on
game development and related topics)
5.3 Instance Switching
A unique feature of Mastodon is that users can easily
‘switch’ instance. This involves migrating their data from
one instance to another. We are curious to see if this is
also driven by network effects. Overall, 4.09% of the users
have switched from the Mastodon instance they initially
created an account on (hereinafter ﬁrst instance) to a new
instance (hereinafter second instance). Curiously, 97.22%
of these switches happened after Musk’s Twitter takeover.
This suggests that users may join initial instances, but mi-
grate to a more suitable one once they are more experi-
enced.
Figure 9 shows the chord plot of switches from each
user’s ﬁrst Mastodon instance to their second. A com-
mon pattern across these switches is that users move from
general purpose/ ﬂagship instances (e.g. mastodon.social,
mastodon.online) to more topic speciﬁc instances, e.g.
Figure 9: Chord plot of switching within Mastodon in-
stances.
sigmoid.social (a Mastodon instance for people research-
ing and working in Artiﬁcial Intelligence) and historians.
social (a Mastodon server for people interested in history).
Interestingly, we notice a strong social network inﬂu-
ence behind these switches. Figure 10 shows the CDFs
of the fraction of Twitter followees of each switched user
that ( i) moved to the ﬁrst instance (blue); ( ii) moved to
the second instance (orange); and ( iii) moved to second
instance before the user (green). On average, 46.98% of
each user’s followees (who moved to Mastodon) at some
point also join the second instance. In contrast to just
11.4% who join the ﬁrst instance. Interestingly, 77.42%
of each switching user’s followees (on average) joined
the second instance before the user. This suggests that the
users switched from the ﬁrst instance because a large frac-
tion of their Twitter followees moved to the second one.
6 RQ3: Timelines Analysis
We are next curious to understand how people use their
(two) accounts after migration.
7

Figure 10: CDFs of the fraction of Twitter followees of
each switched user that (i) moved to ﬁrst instance (blue)
(ii) moved to second instance (orange) and (iii) moved to
second instance before the user (green).
Figure 11: Temporal distribution of tweets and statuses
posted by migrated users on Twitter and Mastodon respec-
tively.
6.1 Twitter vs. Mastodon Activity
We ﬁrst analyze the timelines of migrated users from both
Twitter and Mastodon. Figure 11 shows the number of
tweets on Twitter and the number of statuses on Mastodon
posted by migrated users each day from October 01, 2022
to November 30, 2022. We observe a continuous growth
in user activity on Mastodon after the acquisition of Twit-
ter. However, the activity of migrated users on Twitter do
not decrease in parallel, i.e. our migrated users are using
both their Twitter and Mastodon accounts simultaneously.
We next check if people are generating identical con-
tent across both platforms or are, instead, projecting mul-
tiple ‘personas’. Figure 14 plots the CDFs of the fraction
Figure 12: Top 30 sources of tweets. Note the log scale on
the y-axis.
of each migrated user’s Mastodon statuses that are iden-
tical or similar to its tweets. We consider the Mastodon
status similar to a tweet if the cosine-similarity of their
sentence embeddings [20] is greater than 0.7. Surpris-
ingly, just 1.53% of each migrated user’s Mastodon sta-
tuses are identical. On average, just 16.57% of each user’s
Mastodon statues are similar to their tweets. Instead,
84.45% of the migrated users use the two platforms to
post completely different content. This suggests a mix of
users, some of whom create different personas on the two
platforms, and a smaller subset who mirror all their con-
tent.
A potential explanation for the latter is the use of cross-
posting tools. Such tools allow users to automatically mir-
ror their Mastodon statues on Twitter, and vice versa. To
examine this, we compare the number of tweets posted
via different sources before and after Musk’s takeover in
Figure 12. Naturally, the majority are posted by ofﬁcial
Twitter clients such as the Twitter Web App. The two
sources that increase most dramatically, however, are two
well-known cross-posters, Mastodon-Twitter Crossposter
and Moa Bridge — by 1128.95% and 1732.26%, respec-
tively. Of all migrated users, 5.73% use one of the two
cross-posters at least once. This suggested such users see
both Twitter and Mastodon as viable platforms, and have
8

Figure 13: Number of users that use cross-posting tools
daily.
Figure 14: CDFs of fraction of each migrated user’s
Mastodon statuses that are identical or similar to its
tweets.
limited intention of creating multiple ’personas’. Fig-
ure 13 also plots the number of users using cross-posters
over time. We see that their usage increases rapidly after
Musk’s takeover. The downward trend towards the end
of November is likely a result of the posting issues that
cross-posters faced after their posting rate limit was re-
voked by Twitter [21].
6.2 Hashtags
Given that 84.45% of the migrated users post completely
different content on the two platforms, we next inspect
the hashtags used. This gives us a ﬂavour of the parallel
discussions taking place on Mastodon and Twitter. Fig-
Figure 15: Top 30 hashtags along with their frequencies
on Twitter and Mastodon.
Figure 16: CDFs of fraction of each migrated user’s toxic
posts on Twitter and Mastodon.
ure 15 presents the top 30 most frequent hashtags used
over the two platforms by the migrated users. We no-
tice that users discuss more diverse topics on Twitter such
as Entertainment (#NowPlaying, #BBC6Music), Celebri-
ties (#BarbaraHolzer), and Politics (#StandWithUkraine,
#GeneralElectionNow), whereas Mastodon seems domi-
nated by Fediverse related discussion (#fediverse) and the
migration to it (#TwitterMigration). We conjecture that
we might see more diverse discussions on Mastodon once
the migrated users make themselves familiar with the plat-
form.
9

6.3 Toxicity Analysis
Moderation on Mastodon has received signiﬁcant atten-
tion in recent months [5, 4]. This is because the adminis-
trators of Mastodon instances do not universally have the
resources to moderate malicius content. To shed light on
this, we study the extent to which toxic content is shared
by migrated users on both platforms. To do this, we label
all tweets and statuses using Google Jigsaw’s Perspective
API.7 For a given post, Perspective returns a score be-
tween 0 and 1 for its toxicity (0 = non-toxic). Speciﬁ-
cally, we use the API’s TOXICITY attribute that deﬁnes
toxicity as “a rude, disrespectful, or unreasonable com-
ment that is likely to make people leave a discussion”. In
the literature, 0.5 is the most common choice to threshold
the perspective scores [5, 22, 17], however, higher values
such as 0.8 are also used [2]. Here, we use 0.5 as a thresh-
old and consider a post to be toxic if its toxicity score is
greater than 0.5 (and vice versa).
Figure 16 shows the CDFs of the fraction of each mi-
grated user’s toxic posts on Twitter and Mastodon. Over-
all, just 5.49% of tweets are toxic. Mastodon is substan-
tially less toxic, with just 2.80%. On average, each user
posts 4.02% toxic tweets on Twitter vs. just 2.07% toxic
statuses on Mastodon. Even though the discourse is non-
toxic over both platforms, we notice that 14.26% of mi-
grated users post at least one toxic post on both the plat-
forms. While this may not be problematic for Twitter
which has its own moderation team, it might present chal-
lenges for Mastodon, where volunteer administrators are
responsible for content moderation [11].
7 Related Work
Decentralised Social Networks. Many previous efforts
have been made to build decentralized online social plat-
forms. In the earliest days, there were many peer-to-peer
online social networks, such as Safebook [7], PeerSoN
[6], LotusNet [3], and LifeSocial.KOM [10]. However,
performance and security limitations [18], limited their
adoption and success. New decentralized social networks,
such as Mastodon, Pleroma, Pixelfed, and PeerTube, have
since emerged. In sum, these platforms are referred to as
7https://www.perspectiveapi.com
the Fediverse. These social network applications use Ac-
tivityPub, a W3C protocol, to implement server federa-
tion. Some recent work has looked into these new decen-
tralized social networks. For instance, a large-scale mea-
surement study of Mastodon [19], found centralization
trends in Mastodon. Paradoxically, we found that while
centralization occurs in terms of how many users are at-
tracted to an instance, smaller instances attract more ac-
tive users. Other works focus on user behavior across in-
stances [13, 12]. Our work also touches upon the need
for decentralised moderation. This has been investigated
in prior work on Pleroma (another Fediverse microblog.
Hassan et al identify novel challenges [11] and propose a
strawman solution. Zia et al. [5] also propose model shar-
ing solution to help automate moderation. Our work con-
ﬁrms the presence of toxic content in Mastodon, though
the numbers identiﬁed do not show a trend towards greater
toxicity than Twitter.
Social Network Migration. There have been a number
of measurement studies on social network migration. For
example, [8] measured the migration activity of fandom,
tracking migrating users and the reasons behind their mi-
gration. The authors ﬁnd that policy and value-based as-
pects are determinant in the migration. Gerhart et al. [9]
analyze user migration from traditional social networks
to anonymous social networks perspective. They identify
that social norms drive migration. Otala et al. [14] study
the migration of Twitter users to Parler. The results show
that, although Parler is not widely used, it has a signiﬁcant
impact on political polarization. Our work also studies the
migration of Twitter users. However, to the best of our
knowledge, it is the ﬁrst to systematically measure and
analyze the migration of users from centralised Twitter to
a decentralised platform.
8 Conclusion
In this paper, we have explored the migration of users
from Twitter to Mastodon, prompted by Elon Musk’s
acquisition of Twitter. We have focused on three RQs:
(i) How are new users spread across Mastodon instances,
and are there any consequences for decentralization?
(ii) How much (if at all) does a user’s ego-centric Twitter
network inﬂuence their migration to Mastodon? (iii) What
are usage patterns of migrated users across both plat-
10

forms? To answer RQ1, we have found that 2.26% of
users completely left Twitter, deleting their account. De-
spite Mastodon’s decentralized architecture, we found
that the 25% largest instance on Mastodon contains 96%
of the users. Paradoxically, while larger instances attract
more users, smaller ones attract more active users, rein-
forcing Mastodon’s decentralization. To answerRQ2, we
showed that the size of the Mastodon instance had lim-
ited effect on the size of the user’s social network. We ob-
served the impact of social network in migration, with an
average of 14.72% of Twitter followees per user migrating
to the exact same Mastodon instance as user. To answer
RQ3, we found that users tend to post different content
across platforms. On average, only 1.53% of Mastodon
posts per user were identical to Twitter. In terms of tox-
icity, most of the user’s content on both platforms was
non-toxic. Mastodon appears to be less toxic than Twitter
though. Overall, just 5.49% of tweets and 2.80% of sta-
tuses posted by migrated users on Twitter and Mastodon
respectively were toxic.
There are a number of lines of future works. We would
like to further investigate whether migrating users retain
their Mastodon accounts or return to Twitter, and whether
new users are joining the migration wave. It will be inter-
esting to see what the future holds for these user-driven
centralized Mastodon instances. This study provides the
ﬁrst step in the migration of Twitter to Mastodon. We hope
that it will inspire further exploration of follow-up work.
References
[1] ActivityPub. https://www.w3.org/TR/activitypub/,
2018.
[2] P. Agarwal, O. Hawkins, M. Amaxopoulou,
N. Dempsey, N. Sastry, and E. Wood. Hate speech
in political discourse: A case study of uk mps on
twitter. In Proceedings of the 32nd ACM Conference
on Hypertext and Social Media , pages 5–16, 2021.
[3] L. M. Aiello and G. Ruffo. Lotusnet: Tunable pri-
vacy for distributed online social network services.
Computer Communications, 35(1):75–88, 2012.
[4] I. H. Anaobi, A. Raman, I. Castro, H. B. Zia, D. Ibo-
siola, and G. Tyson. Will admins cope? decentral-
ized moderation in the fediverse. ACM Web Confer-
ence, 2023.
[5] H. Bin Zia, A. Raman, I. Castro, I. Hassan Anaobi,
E. De Cristofaro, N. Sastry, and G. Tyson. Toxicity
in the decentralized web and the potential for model
sharing. Proceedings of the ACM on Measure-
ment and Analysis of Computing Systems , 6(2):1–
25, 2022.
[6] S. Buchegger, D. Schi ¨oberg, L.-H. Vu, and A. Datta.
Peerson: P2p social networking: early experiences
and insights. In Proceedings of the Second ACM Eu-
roSys Workshop on Social Network Systems , pages
46–52, 2009.
[7] L. A. Cutillo, R. Molva, and T. Strufe. Safebook: A
privacy-preserving online social network leveraging
on real-life trust. IEEE Communications Magazine,
47(12):94–101, 2009.
[8] C. Fiesler and B. Dym. Moving across lands: Online
platform migration in fandom communities. Pro-
ceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interac-
tion, 4(CSCW1):1–25, 2020.
[9] N. Gerhart and M. Koohikamali. Social network
migration and anonymity expectations: What anony-
mous social network apps offer. Computers in Hu-
man Behavior, 95:101–113, 2019.
[10] K. Grafﬁ, C. Gross, D. Stingl, D. Hartung, A. Ko-
vacevic, and R. Steinmetz. Lifesocial. kom: A se-
cure and p2p-based solution for online social net-
works. In 2011 IEEE Consumer Communications
and Networking Conference (CCNC) , pages 554–
558. IEEE, 2011.
[11] A. I. Hassan, A. Raman, I. Castro, H. B. Zia,
E. De Cristofaro, N. Sastry, and G. Tyson. Exploring
content moderation in the decentralised web: The
pleroma case. In Proceedings of the 17th Interna-
tional Conference on emerging Networking EXperi-
ments and Technologies, pages 328–335, 2021.
[12] L. La Cava, S. Greco, and A. Tagarelli. In-
formation consumption and boundary spanning in
decentralized online social networks: the case of
11

mastodon users. Online Social Networks and Me-
dia, 30:100220, 2022.
[13] L. La Cava, S. Greco, and A. Tagarelli. Network
analysis of the information consumption-production
dichotomy in mastodon user behaviors. In Proceed-
ings of the International AAAI Conference on Web
and Social Media , volume 16, pages 1378–1382,
2022.
[14] J. M. Otala, G. Kurtic, I. Grasso, Y . Liu, J. Matthews,
and G. Madraki. Political polarization and platform
migration: a study of parler and twitter usage by
united states of america congress members. InCom-
panion Proceedings of the Web Conference 2021 ,
pages 224–231, 2021.
[15] Mastodon. Mastodon. hhttps://github.com/
mastodon/mastodon, 2022.
[16] Mastodon. Over 1 million people have joined
mastodon since october 27. https://twitter.com/
joinmastodon/status/1591519312338210816, 2022.
Accessed: 2023-01-04.
[17] A. Papasavva, S. Zannettou, E. De Cristofaro,
G. Stringhini, and J. Blackburn. Raiders of the lost
kek: 3.5 years of augmented 4chan posts from the
politically incorrect board. In Proceedings of the
International AAAI Conference on Web and Social
Media, volume 14, pages 885–894, 2020.
[18] T. Paul, A. Famulari, and T. Strufe. A survey on de-
centralized online social networks. Computer Net-
works, 75:437–452, 2014.
[19] A. Raman, S. Joglekar, E. D. Cristofaro, N. Sastry,
and G. Tyson. Challenges in the decentralised web:
The mastodon case. In Proceedings of the Internet
Measurement Conference, pages 217–229, 2019.
[20] N. Reimers and I. Gurevych. Sentence-bert: Sen-
tence embeddings using siamese bert-networks. In
Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing . Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics, 11 2019.
[21] Renato Lond Cerqueira. Timeline for the shut-
down of the mastodon-twitter crossposter in-
stance at crossposter.masto.donte.com.br. https:
//write.as/renatolond/timeline-for-the-shutdown-
of-the-mastodon-twitter-crossposter-instance-at,
2022. Accessed: 2023-01-04.
[22] P. R ¨ottger, B. Vidgen, D. Nguyen, Z. Waseem,
H. Margetts, and J. Pierrehumbert. Hatecheck:
Functional tests for hate speech detection models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.15606, 2020.
12