Private Web Search with Tiptoe
Alexandra Henzinger
MIT
Emma Dauterman
UC Berkeley
Henry Corrigan-Gibbs
MIT
Nickolai Zeldovich
MIT
Abstract.Tiptoe is a private web search engine that allows
clients to search over hundreds of millions of documents,
while revealing no information about their search query to the
search engine’s servers. Tiptoe’s privacy guarantee is based
on cryptography alone; it does not require hardware enclaves
or non-colluding servers. Tiptoe uses semantic embeddings
to reduce the problem of private full-text search to private
nearest-neighbor search. Then, Tiptoe implements private
nearest-neighbor search with a new, high-throughput protocol
based on linearly homomorphic encryption. Running on a
45-servercluster,Tiptoecanprivatelysearchover360million
webpageswith145core-secondsofservercompute,56.9MiB
of client-server communication (74% of which occurs before
the client enters its search query), and 2.7 seconds of end-to-
end latency. Tiptoe’s search works best on conceptual queries
(“knee pain”) and less well on exact string matches (“123
Main Street, New York”). On the MS MARCO search-quality
benchmark, Tiptoe ranks the best-matching result in position
7.7 on average. This is worse than a state-of-the-art, non-
private neural search algorithm (average rank: 2.3), but is
close to the classical tf-idf algorithm (average rank: 6.7).
Finally, Tiptoe is extensible: it also supports private text-to-
imagesearchand,withminormodifications,itcansearchover
audio, code, and more.
1 Introduction
Thefirststepofperformingawebsearchtoday,whetherusing
Google, Bing, DuckDuckGo, or another search engine, is to
sendourquerytothesearchengine’sservers.Thisisaprivacy
risk: our search queries reveal sensitive personal information
to the search engine, ranging from where we are (“Tokyo
weather”), to how we are doing (“Covid19 symptoms”), to
what we care about (“Should I go to grad school?”) [13,55].
Thesearchenginemayinadvertentlydisclosethisinformation
inadatabreachorintentionallyresellitforprofit.Evenifyou
anonymize your IP address by accessing the search engine
through Tor [36], the query itself can contain personally
Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not
made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear
this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for third-party
components of this work must be honored. For all other uses, contact the
owner/author.
Copyright is held by the owner/author(s).
SOSP ’23, October 23–26, 2023, Koblenz, Germany
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0229-7/23/10.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3600006.3613134
identifying information, and similarities across queries can
link requests and deanonymize the user [99,100].
Today’s web search engines must see the user’s search
query because common algorithms and data structures for
textsearchmakemanyquery-dependentlookups[10,50,134].
For example, the keywords in the query may determine which
shardofserversprocessesthequery,whichrowsofaninverted
index the servers inspect, and how the servers aggregate the
relevantdocuments.Iftheserversdonotknowthequery,they
cannot apply standard search techniques.
In contrast, cryptographic schemes that provide strong
queryprivacy[28,67]generallyrequiretheserverstoscanthe
entiredatasetinresponsetoeachquery[5,9,133]—otherwise,
the servers would learn which parts of the data set werenot
relevant to the query [16]. This is challenging for Internet-
scale search, as scanning every crawled web page on each
query becomes very costly. Using the state-of-the-art system
for private text search, Coeus [5], to search over the entire
Internet would be prohibitively expensive: we conservatively
estimate that, searching over a public web crawl with 360
million pages [108], a Coeus query would take more than
900000core-secondsand3GiBoftraffic(see§8).Forprivate
text-to-image search, no such systems even exist.
This paper presents Tiptoe, a search engine that learns
nothingaboutwhatitsusersaresearchingfor.Tiptoeprovides
a strong privacy guarantee: its servers take as input a query
ciphertext from the user and, using linearly homomorphic
encryption [94,95] and private information retrieval [56],
compute the response ciphertextwithout ever decrypting the
query ciphertext. This approach ensures privacy based only
on cryptographic assumptions: Tiptoe does not require Tor,
trusted hardware, or non-colluding infrastructure providers.
Inspiredbynon-privatesearchengines[39,91,138],Tiptoe
usessemanticembeddingsfordocumentselectionandranking.
A semantic embedding function maps text strings (or images
or other content) to vectors such that strings that are close
in meaning produce vectors that are close in inner-product
distance.Manypretrainedembeddingmodelshavebeenmade
publicly available for off-the-shelf use [68,81,114]. Using
embeddings,Tiptoereducestheproblemofprivatewebsearch
to the problem ofprivate nearest-neighbor search: the client
must find the document vectors that maximize the inner-
product score with its query vector. With this design, Tiptoe
is extensible to search over many different forms of media,
including text, images, video, audio, and code; this paper
demonstrates both text and text-to-image search.
To implement this search, Tiptoe introduces a new
lightweight protocol for private nearest-neighbor search that

allows the client to find the documents most relevant to its
query.Inparticular,theclientsendsanencryptionofitsquery
vector to the Tiptoe service; the Tiptoe servers compute inner-
product scores under encryption and return the encrypted
results to the client. Tiptoe uses a recent lattice-based encryp-
tion scheme [56,112] that lets the servers perform most of
their computation in a client-independent preprocessing step.
Theserversthenonlyneedtoperformamuchsmalleramount
of per-query computation for each document.
Finally, to reduce communication cost, Tiptoe clusters doc-
uments together by topic. The client uses private-information-
retrieval techniques to fetch encrypted inner-product scores
for only the documents in the most relevant cluster, while
hiding the identity of this cluster from the Tiptoe servers.
ThoughthisapproachslightlyworsensTiptoe’ssearchquality,
itletsTiptoe’scommunicationcostsscalesublinearlywiththe
number of documents in the search corpus—which is crucial
to operating at web scale.
WeimplementaprototypeofTiptoeinGoandevaluateiton
apublicwebcrawlconsistingof360millionEnglish-language
web pages [108]. When running Tiptoe on a cluster of 45
servers,Tiptoeclientsexecuteprivatewebsearchquerieswith
2.7 seconds of end-to-end latency, using 145 core-seconds of
total server compute and 56.9 MiB of network traffic. Of this
traffic, 42.2 MiB is sentbeforethe client decides on its search
query, leaving only 14.7 MiB on the latency-critical path. We
give a detailed evaluation in §8, which includes text-to-image
search over a corpus of 400 million images [119].
To evaluate the quality of Tiptoe’s search results, we use
the MS MARCO search-quality benchmark for end-to-end
document retrieval [92]. On this benchmark, Tiptoe ranks
the best result on average at position 7.7 out of 100, which
is comparable to the standard tf-idf algorithm (average rank:
6.7) but worse than state-of-the-art non-private neural search
engines (average rank: 2.3). While Tiptoe’s search works best
onconceptualqueries,itperformsmostpoorlyonexact-string
searches such as for phone numbers and addresses. At the
sametime,asTiptoemakesblack-boxuseofmachine-learning
modelsforinformationretrieval,futureimprovementsinthese
techniques can directly improve Tiptoe’s search quality.
2 Goals and limitations
Tiptoe is a search engine that learnsnothingabout what its
users are searching for. In particular, an attacker that controls
all Tiptoe servers should be able to learnno information
about the clients’ search queries (e.g., the strings typed into
the search engine), even if the Tiptoe servers deviate from
the prescribed protocol. We formalize this property asquery
privacy,whichisessentiallyanadaptationofthecryptographic
notion of semantic security to our setting [49]:
Definition2.1 (Queryprivacy). Foraquerystring 𝑞∈{ 0, 1}∗
and an adversarial search serviceA, let𝑀A,𝑞 be a random
variablerepresentingthemessagesthatthesearchclientsends
to the search service when the client searches for string𝑞. We
saythatasearchengineprovides queryprivacy if,forallpairs
of strings𝑞0,𝑞 1∈{ 0, 1}∗ and for all efficient adversaries
A, the corresponding probability distributions of𝑀A,𝑞0 and
𝑀A,𝑞1 are computationally indistinguishable.
Our definition of query privacy implies that all aspects
of the search engine’s behavior—including the queries it
receives, its memory access patterns, the precise timing of
its execution, and the responses it sends back to the client—
are independent of the query issued by the client, up to
cryptographic assumptions. This also implies that the search
engine does not learn the set of search results that it sends
back to the client.
For a system to provide query privacy, the search engine’s
serverscanneverseetheclient’squeryinplaintext—otherwise,
theservercouldeasilydistinguishbetweenclientqueriesfor 𝑞0
and for𝑞1. Private-search systems based on anonymizing
proxies (e.g., Tor [36], mix-nets [22]) cannot provide this
type of query privacy, since at some point the search system’s
servers must see the query in order to answer it.
As we will demonstrate, Tiptoe achieves query privacy
under standard cryptographic assumptions.
Non-goals and limitations.Tiptoe hideswhat a client is
searching for; Tiptoe does not hidewhen a client makes a
query,or howmany queriestheclientmakes.Moreover,Tiptoe
does not protect information about a client’s web-browsing
behavior after the client makes its query. For example, if
the client browses to a URL that Tiptoe’s search returns, the
client’s post-search HTTP/HTTPS requests could indirectly
leak information about its query to a network adversary.
In the face of malicious servers, Tiptoe guarantees neither
the availability of its service nor the correctness of its results.
Thislimitationisinherent:maliciousserverscandecidewhich
corpus to serve, and lie about the contents of documents.
Finally, Tiptoe’s embedding-based search returns semantic
matches rather than exact lexical ones. This brings with
it many of the limitations of machine learning: bias, lack
of interpretability, and difficulty to generalize beyond the
embedding’s training set [76]. Crucially, Tiptoe only relies
on the embedding model for search result correctness—not
privacy.
3 Tiptoe design
Tiptoe achieves query privacy by ensuring that:
• everyprotocolmessagethattheclienttransmitsis encrypted
with a secret key known only to the client, meaning that
the Tiptoe servers only ever see ciphertexts, and
• the message flow and packet sizes do not depend on the
client’s secret query string or on the servers’ behavior.
TheTiptoeserverscomputetheanswerstotheclient’squeries
directly on the encrypted data, without ever decrypting it.

+
+
+
Document embedding
Cluster of documents
Cluster centroid
➊Embedding of search query
➋Cluster to search over
➌Nearest neighbor in cluster
Figure 1: Tiptoe’s semantic search with embeddings. Tiptoe uses
embeddings to represent documents as points in a vector space. To
search: ➊the query is embedded into the same vector space,➋the
cluster of documents nearest to the query point is identified, and➌
theclosestdocumenttothequerypointwithintheclusterisreturned.
3.1 Design ideas
The core challenge in Tiptoe lies in the tension between
supportingexpressivequeries,hidingthequerycontentsfrom
the search engine, and searching over hundreds of millions of
documents, all in the span of seconds. To provide privacy, the
search engine’s servers must, on every query, scan over a data
structure whose size is linear in the number of documents
searched. (Otherwise, an adversary controlling the search
engine can learn which documents the client isnot interested
in.) At the same time, performance requirements rule out
any expensive, per-document cryptographic computations
(for example, checking for the joint appearance of encrypted
keywords in documents). Tiptoe resolves this tension using
the following techniques.
Embedding-based search.Tiptoe represents documents us-
ing semantic embeddings[68,81,114], a machine-learning
techniquethatmanyrecentnon-privatesearchsystemsuse[39].
A semantic embedding function maps each document to a
short, fixed-size vector (e.g., 768 floats for text search), such
that semantically similar documents map to vectors that are
close in the embedding space. The Tiptoe search protocol
supports any embedding function that uses inner product or
cosine similarity as its vector similarity measure; as such,
Tiptoeiscompatiblewithpopularembeddings[85],including
transformer models [114].
Using embeddings, Tiptoe reduces the private document-
search problem to that of private nearest-neighbor search. To
performasearch,theclientlocallyembedsitsquerystringinto
avectorandthenneedstofindthedocumentintheserver-side
corpus whose embedding has the maximal inner product (i.e.,
dot product) with the client’s query embedding. We illustrate
Tiptoe’s embedding-based search algorithm in Figure 1. This
approach provides three key benefits:
1. Embeddingsaresmall(lessthan4%thesizeoftheaverage
document in our web-search corpus), which dramatically
reduces the cost of the Tiptoe servers’ linear scan.
2. Embeddings allow Tiptoe to natively support expressive
queries—without any special machinery for keyword inter-
section or term-frequency analysis.
3. Embeddings exist for an array of document types (e.g.,
text, image, audio, and video), allowing Tiptoe to support
private search over these document types.
Private nearest-neighbor search with fast linearly homo-
morphic encryption.To find the closest documents to its
query, the client sends anencryption of its query embedding
to the Tiptoe search engine, and the Tiptoe servers homomor-
phically (i.e., under encryption) compute the inner product of
the query embedding with every document in the corpus. The
servers return the encrypted inner-product scores to the client.
The key to achieving good performance is that the document
embeddings are plaintext vectors, and so the inner-product
scores that the servers need to compute are a public, linear
functionoftheclient’sencryptedqueryembedding.Therefore,
we can use alinearlyhomomorphic encryption scheme (that
is, an encryption scheme that supports computing only linear
functionsonencrypteddata),whichismuchsimplerandfaster
than its “fully” homomorphic counterpart [44].
In §4, we show that using a high-throughput, lattice-based
encryption scheme [56] makes Tiptoe’s server-side computa-
tion fast, despite touching every document. Applied directly,
this encryption scheme requires the client to download and
storeonelarge(8KiB)ciphertextforeachinner-productscore.
Weshrinkthedownloadtoeightbytesperscore,attheexpense
of requiring some per-query preprocessing that can execute
beforethe client has decided on its search query (§6).
Clustering to reduce communication.Finally, Tiptoe uses
clustering[25,58,61,71,106]toshrinkclient-servertraffic.In
particular,toavoidhavingtheclientdownload 𝑁inner-product
scores on an𝑁-document corpus, Tiptoe groups documents
withsimilarembeddingsinto clustersofsizeroughly
√
𝑁.The
clientdownloadsalistof
√
𝑁 cluster“centroids”aheadoftime
and,atquerytime,usesthislisttofindtheclusterclosesttoits
query embedding. Then, the client fetches the inner-product
scores for only the
√
𝑁 documents in this best-matching
cluster, using a cryptographic protocol that hides the cluster’s
identity from the servers. The servers still compute over all𝑁
documentstoensurethattheprotocol’sprivacyisnotaffected,
but clustering drastically reduces the communication (from
linear to𝑂(
√
𝑁)), at some cost in search quality (see §8).
3.2 Tiptoe architecture
A Tiptoe deployment consists of data-loading batch jobs, a
client, and two client-facing services—aranking serviceand
a URL service—that implement the core search functionality.
We show an overview of Tiptoe’s architecture in Figure 2. In
our prototype, the batch jobs and the client-facing services
run on a cluster of tens of physical machines.
Data-loadingbatchjobs. TheTiptoebatchjobsconvertaraw
corpus of documents into a set of data structures for private
search. The batch jobs perform three steps:
Embed. First, the batch jobs run each document through a
server-chosen embedding function to generate a fixed-size

vector representation of the document. The output of this
step is one embedding vector per document. The choice of
embedding function depends only on the type of document
being indexed (e.g., text, image) and not on the corpus itself;
our prototype uses off-the-shelf, pretrained models.
Cluster.Second,thebatchjobsgrouptheembeddeddocument
vectors into clusters of tens of thousands of documents each
and compute the centroids (i.e., average embedding values)
of each cluster. Since nearby embedding vectors represent
documents that are close in content, the documents within
each cluster are typically about related topics.
Preprocess cryptographic operations.Finally, the batch jobs
compute a set of cryptographic data structures required for
our private-search protocols. (These correspond to the “hint”
in the SimplePIR private information retrieval scheme [56].)
Search queries with Tiptoe.Before a client can issue Tiptoe
search queries, it must download the embedding function that
theserversusedduringdataloading(265MiBfortextsearch)
alongwiththesetofclustercentroidsandassociatedmetadata
(68 MiB for a 360 million-document text corpus). To perform
a private search, a Tiptoe client executes the following steps:
1.Embedquery. Theclientembedsitsquerystringintoafixed-
size vector using the server-provided embedding function.
2.Rankdocuments(§4). TheclientthenusesTiptoe’sranking
service to find the IDs of the documents that best match its
query, while revealing to the Tiptoe service neither its query
nor its embedded query vector. To do so, the client uses its
local cache of cluster centroids to identify the cluster whose
centroid is closest to its query embedding. Then, the Tiptoe
clientusesanewcryptographicprotocoltoobtainthedistance
between its query embedding and all of the documents in its
chosen cluster, while hiding its query and its chosen cluster
from the Tiptoe servers.
3. Fetch URLs (§5).Once the client has the IDs of the best
matching documents, the client uses Tiptoe’s URL service to
privately fetch the URLs for its top few documents. The Tip-
toe client uses a cryptographic private-information-retrieval
protocol [28] to query the URL service for this data, while
hiding which documents it is interested in.
Handling updates to the corpus.To support continuous
updates to the search corpus, the Tiptoe servers can run the
new or changed documents through the embedding function,
assign them to a cluster, and publish the updated cluster
centroids and metadata to the clients. Even if all centroids
change, fetching this data (in a compressed format) requires
at most 18.7 MiB of download for our 360 million-document
text-search corpus.
4 Tiptoe’s private ranking service
This section describes Tiptoe’s ranking service, which allows
the client to find the IDs of the documents that are most
relevant to its query.
Preprocessing
Per query
✪ Corpus indexing
1. Embed
2. Cluster
3. Crypto
Documents
Ranking service
URL service
Clusters ✪
Embeddings
URLs
✪ Cluster centroids,
metadata
Client
Enc(query1)
Enc(answer1)
Enc(query2)
Enc(answer2)
➊ query
URL
Pretrained
embedding ✪ Embedding fn.
Embed Find cluster
➋ Decrypt
Find doc. ID
Decrypt➌
Figure 2: The Tiptoe system architecture.✪ In a preprocessing
phase, the Tiptoe batch jobs embed each document into a vector
(with a pretrained embedding function), cluster the vectors, and
generate the cryptographic data structures. The client and servers
each store portions of the preprocessed data.➊ For each query, the
client embeds the query string into a vector, identifies the cluster
nearest its query vector, and queries the ranking service to find the
best documents within that cluster.➋ Once the client knows the
IDs of the best-matching documents, it queries the URL service.
➌ Finally, from the URL service’s answer, the client recovers the
best documents’ URLs.
Tiptoe implements this ranking step using a newprivate
nearest-neighbor searchprotocol. On a corpus of𝑁 docu-
ments with𝑑-dimentional embedding vectors, the total com-
munication cost required for ranking grows as
√
𝑁𝑑, and the
server-side time is roughly2𝑁𝑑 64-bit word operations.
An important caveat is that our protocol only allows the
client to findapproximate nearest neighbors—it does not
produce exact results and provides no formal correctness
guarantees. However, since Tiptoe builds on semantic embed-
dings which similarly do not provide formal guarantees of
correctness, approximate nearest-neighbor results suffice.
4.1 Tiptoe’s private nearest-neighbor protocol
At the start of the ranking step:
• the ranking service holds a list of𝑁 document-embedding
vectors of dimension𝑑, partitioned by topic into roughly√
𝑁 clusters (see §4.2), and
• the client holds the semantic embeddingq of its query
string, along with a list of the cluster centroids that it has
fetched in advance and cached.
Theclient’sgoalistofindtheIDsoftheserver-sidedocuments
whoseembeddingvectorsareclosesttoitsqueryembedding q.
Fornow,wethinkoftheembeddingasconsistingof 𝑑integers;
we discuss how to handle real-valued vectors in §4.3.

M
v5,1
v4,1
v3,1
v2,1
v1,1
v5,2
v4,2
v3,2
v2,2
v1,2
v5,3
v4,3
v3,3
v2,3
v1,3
The five embedding
vectors in Cluster 2
×
Enc(˜q)
0
0
0
0
|
|
|
q
|
→
Enc(M· ˜q)
=⟨v5,2,q⟩
=⟨v4,2,q⟩
=⟨v3,2,q⟩
=⟨v2,2,q⟩
=⟨v1,2,q⟩
Inner product of the
client’s encrypted
query vector with
all vectors in
Cluster 2.
Figure 3: The matrices in our private nearest-neighbor computation,
for a data set with𝐶 = 3 clusters of 5 vectors each. The client,
in this example searching within Cluster 2, uploads an encrypted
query vector˜qand receives the encrypted inner-product scores for
all documents in Cluster 2 in response. The client then decrypts to
recover the document scores.
To perform the nearest-neighbor search, the client and
ranking service execute the following steps:
Step 1: Client query preparation.The client uses its locally
cached set of cluster centroids to identify the index𝑖∗ of the
cluster nearest to its query embeddingq.
The client then prepares a vector˜qthat encodes its query
embeddingq and its chosen cluster index𝑖∗. In particular, if
there are𝐶 server-side clusters and the client’s query vector
hasdimension 𝑑,theclientconstructsavector ˜qof𝑑𝐶integers,
which is zero everywhere except that it contains the client’s
query q in the𝑖∗-th block of𝑑 integers (Figure 3).
Then, the client encrypts this vector using a linearly homo-
morphic encryption scheme to get a ciphertextct = Enc(˜q).
The client sends this ciphertextct to the ranking service. Be-
cause the Tiptoe ranking service only receives a fixed-length
ciphertext, itlearns nothingabout either the client’s query
vectorq, or about the cluster𝑖∗ it is interested in.
Step 2: Ranking-service computation.The ranking service
arranges its𝑁 document-embedding vectors into a matrixM.
If there are𝑁 total document embeddings, grouped into𝐶
clusters, the ranking service arranges these vectors into a
matrix M with𝐶 columns and𝑁/𝐶 rows, such that for all
𝑖∈{ 1,...,𝐶 }, column𝑖 of the matrix contains all vectors in
cluster𝑖 (Figure3).Forthepurposesofthisprotocol,wethink
of all clusters as being roughly the same size, and we pad the
height of the matrixM to the size of the largest cluster. Since
each embedding vector has dimension𝑑, each element of the
matrix will contain𝑑 integers.
Upon receiving a query ciphertextct from the client, the
servercomputesthematrix-vectorproduct ct′ = M· ct.Since
Enc is a linearly homomorphic encryption scheme, it holds
that ct′ = M·Enc(˜q) = Enc(M·˜q)—meaningthattheranking
servicehasjustcomputedtheproduct M· ˜qunderencryption .
The server returns the resulting ciphertextct′ to the client.
Step 3: Client decryption.The client decryptsct′ to recover
M· ˜q.Basedonhowweconstructtherankingservice’smatrix
M and the client’s vector˜q, the productM· ˜q contains the
≈
√
𝑁 inner-product scores for the documents in the client’s
chosen cluster𝑖∗ (see Figure 3). The client outputs the index
of the documents with the largest inner product scores as the
nearest neighbors.
We give a more detailed description of the protocol in
Figure 10 of Appendix B.
4.2 Protocol analysis
Security.The server sees only the encryption of the client’s
augmented query vector˜q, under a secret key known only to
the client. Provided that the underlying encryption scheme
is semantically secure [49], the server learns nothing about
the client’s query embeddingq nor about the index𝑖∗ of its
cluster of interest.
Correctness. With this scheme, the client learns the inner
product of its query vectorq with each vector in its chosen
cluster𝑖∗.Thismaynotalwaysreturnthetruenearestneighbors
of q, since the true nearest neighbor may not always lie in the
cluster searched by the client. (This is because the client uses
its local cache of cluster centroids to determine which cluster
to search.) Whenever the centroid of the cluster containing
the true best match is not the closest centroid toq, the client
will instead obtain an approximate nearest neighbor.
While we do not provide guarantees on how good of
an approximation this scheme will provide, our empirical
evaluation suggests that it is reasonable on average (§8).
Communication cost.On a corpus of𝑁 documents with
𝑑-dimensional embeddings divided into𝐶 clusters:
• the client uploads the encryption of a vector of dimen-
sion𝑑𝐶,
• therankingserviceappliesamatrixwith 𝑑𝑁 integerentries
to the encrypted vector (𝑁
𝐶 rows,𝑑𝐶 columns), and
• the ranking service returns an encrypted vector of dimen-
sion 𝑁
𝐶 to the client.
Taking𝐶≈
√
𝑁, the total communication cost scales roughly
as𝑑
√
𝑁. (If the dimension𝑑 grows large, we can take𝐶≈√︁
𝑁/𝑑 to reduce the total communication slightly to
√
𝑑𝑁.)
Performance.In this protocol, the ranking service computes
a matrix-vector product between the large matrixMand the
vector Enc(˜q), encrypted with a linearly homomorphic en-
cryptionscheme.Theperformanceofcomputingonencrypted
data thus determines the ranking service’s throughput. In Tip-
toe, we use a recent fast linearly homomorphic encryption
scheme, which we describe in §6.
4.3 Implementation considerations
We now describe how we build the private ranking service
that responds to private nearest-neighbor queries.

Representing real-valued embeddings.Embeddings are
traditionally vectors of floating-point values [68,114], but the
linearlyhomomorphicencryptionschemeTiptoeusescanonly
compute inner products over vectors of integers modulo𝑝.
Choosing a smaller modulus𝑝 improves performance. To
bridge this gap, Tiptoe represents each real number as an
integer mod𝑝 using a standard fixed-precision representation,
which we describe in Appendix B.1.
Scaling out to many physical machines.The server’s per-
query computation in Figure 10 consists of multiplying the
large, corpus-dependent matrixMby the client’s encrypted
query vectorEnc(˜q). For a corpus with hundreds of millions
of documents, the matrixM can be 50 GiB or more in size.
Sharding M across multiple servers reduces query latency
and, for very large data sets, ensures that the entire matrix
fits in main memory. Tiptoe shards by cluster: to shard across
𝑊 worker machines, we vertically partition the matrix as
M =(M1∥···∥ M𝑊), and we store matrixM𝑖 on server𝑖.
In our design, a front-end “coordinator” server receives
the ciphertext vector ct = Enc(˜q) from the client. The
coordinator partitions the query vector into 𝑊 chunks,
ct = (ct1∥···∥ ct𝑊), and then, for𝑖 ∈ {1,...,𝑊 }, ships
ciphertext chunkct𝑖 to worker𝑖. Worker𝑖 computes the an-
swer a𝑖← M𝑖· ct𝑖 and returnsa𝑖 to the coordinator. The
coordinatorcomputes a = /√︄ummationtext.𝑊
𝑖=1a𝑖,whichitsendstotheclient.
Our implementation ships each ciphertext chunkct𝑖 to
a single physical machine. If any machine fails during this
computation, the coordinator cannot reply to the client. To
improve latency and fault-tolerance at some operating cost,
thecoordinatorcouldfarmouteachtasktomultiplemachines.
5 Tiptoe’s URL service
In this section, we describe the functionality of Tiptoe’s URL
service.OncetheclienthasidentifiedtheIDsofthedocuments
most relevant to its query, the client must fetch the metadata
for these documents. In Tiptoe, this metadata is the document
URL, though it could potentially also include web-page titles,
summaries, or image captions. By default, the Tiptoe client
fetchesandoutputsthemetadataforthetop100searchresults.
Using private information retrieval.To fetch the document
metadata, Tiptoe uses an existing single-server private infor-
mation retrieval [28,67] protocol with additional optimiza-
tions (see §6). Cryptographic private-information-retrieval
protocols allow a client to fetch a record from a server-held
array, without revealing to the server which record it has
retrieved. Tiptoe implements this step using SimplePIR [56],
whichhasthelowestservercomputecostamongsingle-server
private-information-retrieval schemes.
Under the hood, SimplePIR uses many of the same tools
as the private nearest-neighbor search protocol described in
§4: at a high level, the SimplePIR client builds a vector that
consists of all zeros, except with a single ‘1’ at the position of
the record it would like to retrieve. The client then encrypts
this vector with a linearly homomorphic encryption scheme,
and uploads it to the server. The server multiplies its array
of records by this encrypted vector, effectively selecting out
the record that the client is trying to read, and then sends
the resulting ciphertext back to the client. Exactly as in §4,
the server here only ever sees and computes on fixed-length
ciphertexts and touches every record in the array as part of
this computation. As a result, the server learnsnothingabout
the URLs that the client is retrieving.
SimplePIR serves data to the client only in relatively large
chunks—roughly 40 KiB with our parameter settings. The
client must always fetch at least one of these chunks from the
server. Tiptoe packs as much useful information into a single
chunk as possible, in the following two ways:
Compressing batches of URLs.Since the client fetches a
fewhundredkilobyteswitheachmetadataquery,weassemble
URLs into batches and compress roughly 880 of them at a
time usingzlib, dropping any URLs that are more than 500
characters in length. By compressing many URLs at once,
each URL takes only 22 bytes to represent on average.
Grouping URLs by content.We group URLs together into
these batches by content. Then, if the client fetches the meta-
data for the best-matching document, it is likely to find the
metadata for other top-matching documents within the same
compressed batch. Our prototype of Tiptoe fetches only a
single batch of URLs (chosen to be the one containing the
best-matching document) and then outputs the𝑘 = 100URLs
for the best-ranked documents in this batch. We show in §8
that retrieving a single batch of URLs (rather than𝑘 batches
of URLs) does not significantly reduce the search quality.
6 Cryptographic optimizations
Therankingservice(§4)accountsforthebulkoftheper-query
computationalcostinTiptoe.Itsmaincomputationaloverhead
comes from the use of linearly homomorphic encryption; for
each query, the service must multiply an encrypted vector by
a matrix as large as the entire search index. We accelerate this
matrix-vector product with the following ideas:
1. Weuseanoff-the-shelfhigh-throughputlinearlyhomomor-
phic encryption scheme that has large ciphertexts (§6.1).
2. We compress the ciphertexts using a second layer of ho-
momorphic encryption (§6.2).
3. We perform the bulk of the compression work in a per-
querysetupphasethatrunsbeforetheclientmakesasearch
query, i.e., off of the latency-critical path (§6.3).
Wealsoapplyoptimizations2and3totheprivate-information-
retrieval step used for URL retrieval (§5). These techniques
effectively eliminate the client-side “hint” storage required
by SimplePIR [56], at the cost of increasing the per-query
communication by roughly4×.
We give a formal description of the resulting linearly ho-
momorphicencryptionschemeinAppendixA;wethankYael

Kalai,RyanLehmkuhl,andVinodVaikuntanathanforhelpful
discussions pertaining to this section.
6.1 Preprocessingtoreduceper-querycomputation
Tiptoe uses the high-throughput linearly homomorphic en-
cryption scheme developed in SimplePIR [56], which is in
turn based on Regev’s lattice-based encryption scheme [112].
This encryption scheme allows the server topreprocessa ma-
trix M ahead of time. Thereafter, given a ciphertextEnc(˜q)
encrypting a vector˜q (i.e., a query vector), the server can
compute the matrix-vector productM· Enc(˜q) = Enc(M· ˜q)
almost as quickly as computing the same product on plaintext
values. The server can compute many subsequent matrix-
vector products (with the sameM), amortizing away the cost
of its one-time preprocessing step.
In Tiptoe, the matrix held by the ranking service does not
depend on the client’s query—it is a fixed function of the
search index. Thus, the Tiptoe servers can preprocess this
matrix during the data-loading batch processing phase that
occurs whenever the document corpus changes (§3.2). To
give a sense of the concrete efficiency of the SimplePIR-style
encryption scheme in Tiptoe, if the matrixMis a
√
𝑁-by-
√
𝑁
matrix, the query vector˜qconsists of
√
𝑁 16-bit integers, and
the security parameter (i.e., lattice dimension) is𝜆≈ 1024,
then the linearly homomorphic encryption scheme has the
following performance characteristics:
Small computation.After the one-time preprocessing of the
matrix M, the cost of computingM· Enc(˜q) is small: only
2𝑁 64-bit operations. For comparison, computingM· ˜q on
plaintext (unencrypted) values requires2𝑁 16-bit operations.
Large communication.After computing on the ciphertexts,
they become large: the ciphertext encrypting the product
Enc(M·˜q)isafactorof ( 64
16)·𝜆≈ 4096largerthantheplaintext
vectorM· ˜q. In the context of Tiptoe’s ranking service, this
would amount to an impractical 0.75 GiB download to search
over 360 million documents. (If the client makes multiple
queries to the same corpus, SimplePIR can re-use a large
portion—namely, 99.9%—of this download; however, the
totaldownload would still be at least as large.)
The exact cost expressions are:
• Matrix preprocessing.The server executes𝜆
√
𝑁 64-bit
operations for the one-time preprocessing of the matrixM.
• Homomorphicmatrix-vectorproduct. Theservercomputes
M· Enc(˜q) with 2𝑁 64-bit additions and multiplications.
• Ciphertextsizebeforehomomorphicoperation. Thecipher-
text Enc(˜q) consists of
√
𝑁 64-bit integers.
• Ciphertextsizeafterhomomorphicoperation. Theresulting
ciphertext Enc(M· ˜q) consists of𝜆
√
𝑁 64-bit integers.
6.2 Compressing the download
While the linearly homomorphic encryption scheme that
we use makes homomorphic operations cheap, it has large
ciphertexts—roughly 4𝜆≈ 4096 times larger than the corre-
sponding plaintext. To shrink the size of these ciphertexts, we
introduce a trick inspired by the “bootstrapping” technique
used in fully homomorphic encryption schemes [44].
To be concrete, let C be a ciphertext encrypting the
dimension-
√
𝑁 result of a matrix-vector productEnc(M· ˜q).
In the Regev scheme, the ciphertextC is a matrix of 64-bit
integers of dimension roughly
√
𝑁×𝜆. The Regev secret key
sis a vector of𝜆 64-bit integers. To decrypt the ciphertextC
with secret keys, the client just computes the matrix-vector
product y = C· s, where all arithmetic is modulo264. The
decryptedmessageisinthehigh-orderbitsofeachentryofthe
vectory. In sum, decryption essentially requires computing a
matrix-vector product modulo264.
Our new technique, inspired by theoretical work on fully
homomorphic encryption [19,45,75,78], is to “outsource”
the work of decrypting the large ciphertextC to the server:
1. The client encrypts its secret keys using a second lin-
earlyhomomorphicencryptionscheme Enc2,whichallows
encrypting vectors of 64-bit integers. The client sends
Enc2(s) to the server.
2. The server, holding ciphertextC, computes the matrix-
vectorproduct C· Enc2(s) = Enc2(C·s) = Enc2(y) under
encryption. That is, the server “decrypts”C under encryp-
tion.
3. The server returnsEnc2(y) to the client, who decrypts it.
The crucial observation here is that the encryption scheme
Enc2 can beslowas long as it hascompact ciphertextsafter
homomorphic evaluation. More specifically, the computation
C· Enc2(s) involves a matrixCof size𝜆
√
𝑁—much smaller
thantheoriginalmatrix M,whichhassize 𝑁.Thus,thehomo-
morphic operations usingEnc2 will not be a computational
bottleneck, even if they are slow. We instantiateEnc2 with
an encryption scheme based on the ring learning-with-errors
assumption[74].Wedetailallcryptographicparametersused,
as well as additional low-level optimizations, in Appendix C.
6.3 Reducing latency with query tokens
Finally, we push much of the client-to-server communication
to a per-query preprocessing step. This optimization reduces
the client-perceived latency between the moment that the
client submits a search query and receives a response.
Usingtheoptimizationof§6.2,theclientsendsanencrypted
secret keyEnc2(s) to the server and downloads the product
C· Enc2(s). Since the encryption of the secret key does not
dependontheclient’squery,theclientcansendittotheTiptoe
services in advance. In Tiptoe, 99.9% of the ciphertext matrix
C is also fixed—it just depends on the document corpus.
(This portion of the matrixC corresponds to thehint in the
SimplePIR encryption scheme [56].) Therefore, the ranking
servicecancomputeandreturnmostofthebitsoftheproduct
C· Enc2(s) to the clientbeforethe client has decided on its
query string.

We refer to the chunk of bits that the client downloads
ahead of time as a “query token.” The client can execute one
search query per token; once the client has used a token, it
may never use it again. (Otherwise, the security guarantees of
the encryption scheme break down: the client would be using
the same secret keysto encrypt multiple query vectors.) The
client can fetch as many tokens as it wants in advance; these
tokens are usable until the document corpus changes.
7 Implementation
ThesourceforourTiptoeprototypeisavailableat github.com/
ahenzinger/tiptoe.Ourprototypeconsistsofroughly5200
lines of code: 3700 lines of Go and Python for the Tiptoe
client and services, 1500 lines of Python for the batch jobs,
and 1000 lines of Python for cluster management.
We implemented the core cryptosystem (§6) in a separate
library in 1000 lines of Go and 300 lines of C/C++, building
ontheSimplePIRcodebase[56]andonMicrosoftSEAL[121].
It is available atgithub.com/ahenzinger/underhood.
Embedding models.For text search, we use themsmarco-
-distilbert-base-tas-b text model, which outputs embed-
ding vectors of dimension 768 [57,58]. We compute each
document’s embedding over its first 512 tokens (the maxi-
mum that the model supports). We chose this embedding as it
supports fast inference.
For text-to-image search, we use the CLIP embedding
function [107], which maps text and images to the same
dimension-512 vector-embedding space. Modifying our Tip-
toe prototype to support plain image search (i.e., using an
image to find similar images) only requires changing a few
lines of code at the client.
Dimensionality reduction.Following prior work [84], Tip-
toe reduces the dimension of its document embeddings by
performing principal component analysis on the embeddings
for the entire corpus. The principal-component-analysis al-
gorithm outputs a linear function that projects the original
embeddingsdowntoavectorspaceofsmallerdimension.The
client downloads this function (0.6 MiB in size) and applies
it locally to its query embedding before interacting with the
Tiptoe services. We reduce the embedding dimension to 192
(from 768) for text search and to 384 (from 512) for image
search; we measure the effect on search quality in §8.
Clustering. Tiptoe uses the Faiss library [62,63] to group
documents into clusters; for both text and image search, these
clusters consist of approximately 50000 documents. Tiptoe
computes the clusters using a variant of𝑘-means: we first
compute centroids by running𝑘-means over a subset of the
dataset(roughly10milliondocuments),andthenassignevery
document to the cluster with the closest centroid. To obtain
roughly balanced clusters, we recursively split large clusters
into multiple smaller ones.
A common technique to increase search quality in cluster-
based nearest-neighbor-search is to assign a single document
tomultipleclusters[25,61].Followingpriorwork[25],Tiptoe
assigns documents to multiple clusters if they are close to
cluster boundaries. In particular, Tiptoe assigns 20% of the
documents to two clusters and the remaining 80% only to a
single cluster, resulting in a roughly1.2×overhead in server
computationand
√
1.2×overheadincommunication.Weshow
in §8 that this optimization improves search quality.
8 Evaluation
In this section, we answer the following questions:
• How good are Tiptoe’s text-search results? (§8.2)
• What is the performance and cost of Tiptoe? (§8.3)
• How do Tiptoe’s costs compare to those of other private-
search systems? (§8.4)
• How well does Tiptoe scale to larger corpuses? (§8.5)
• TowhatextentdoouroptimizationsreduceTiptoe’ssearch
costs and affect its search quality? (§8.6)
8.1 Experimental setup
Systemconfiguration. WeruntheTiptoeservicesonacluster
of many memory-optimizedr5.xlargeAWS instances (with
4 vCPUs and 32 GiB of RAM each), since Tiptoe’s server
workload is bottlenecked by DRAM bandwidth. We allocate
enough servers to each service to allow each machine’s shard
of the search index to fit in RAM, and to keep the client-
perceived latency on the order of seconds. For text search, the
ranking service runs on 40 servers, and the URL service runs
on four servers. For image search, which runs over a 1.2×
larger corpus and uses a 2× larger embedding dimension, the
ranking service runs on 80 servers and the URL service on 8
servers. Each server holds roughly 8-12 GiB of data.
We additionally run a single front-end coordinator server,
shared among both services, on ar5.8xlarge AWS instance
(32 vCPUs, 256 GiB RAM). The coordinator performs all the
server-side work in the query-token-generation step (§6.3),
butfansouttheclient’squeriestothecorrespondingmachines
in the ranking step and the URL-retrieval step.
Finally, we run a single Tiptoe client on ar5.xlargeAWS
instance (4 vCPUs, 32 GiB of RAM) for text search, and
on ar5.2xlarge AWS instance (8 vCPUs, 64 GiB of RAM)
for image search. The simulated link between the client and
the coordinator has 100 Mbps bandwidth with a 50 ms RTT.
To measure query throughput, we simulate running up to 19
clients on oner5.8xlarge instance (32 vCPUs, 256 GiB of
RAM), which generates enough load to saturate the servers.
To be conservative, when we report compute costs in
“core-seconds,” we measure the total number of AWS vCPUs-
seconds paid for (counting idle cores).
Data sets.For text search, we search over the C4 data set, a
cleaned version of the Common Crawl’s English web crawl
corpus with 364M web pages [108,109]. The Common Crawl

0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
MRR@100
ColBERT
BM25
tf-idf
Embeddings
Tiptoe
1 25 50 75 100
Index𝑖
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
% queries where best
result at index≤𝑖
tf-idf (not private)
Embeddings (not private)
Tiptoe (private)
Figure 4: Search quality for the full-retrieval document ranking MS
MARCO task. For tf-idf, we report the score with an unrestricted
dictionary. On the left, we show MRR@100 scores. On the right, we
show the percent of queries where the best (human-chosen) result
appears at location≤𝑖. The dotted gray line represents the fraction
of queries on which Tiptoe searches in the cluster containing the
human-chosen answer, which bounds Tiptoe’s search quality.
data set is not as comprehensive as the crawls used by com-
mercial search engines such as Bing and Google. At the same
time,thisdatasetspansmuchofthewebandisfarlargerthan
those considered by prior work (e.g., Coeus’s search over 5M
Wikipedia articles [5]). In §8.5, we analytically estimate how
Tiptoe would scale to handle more documents.
Forimagesearch,weusetheLAION-400Mdatasetof400
million images and English captions [119]. We deduplicate
images and discard captions.
Sinceneitherofthesedatasetscontainsground-truthlabels
for search, we evaluate Tiptoe’s search quality on the smaller
MS MARCO document-ranking “dev” data set [92]. This
data set contains 3.2M documents, along with 520000 query-
document pairs consisting of real Bing queries and human-
chosen answers. We use the standard MRR@100 (“mean
reciprocal rank at 100”) search quality metric, which is the
the inverse of the rank at which the true-best result appeared
in the top 100 returned results, averaged over the test queries.
8.2 Search quality
In Figure 4, we compare the search quality on the MS
MARCO document-ranking task for multiple search algo-
rithms:adeep-learning-basedstate-of-the-artretrievalsystem
(ColBERT) [66], a standard keyword-based retrieval sys-
tem (BM25), the classic term frequency-inverse document
frequency (tf-idf) algorithm, an exhaustive search over em-
beddings that ranks the documents by inner-product score (no
clustering), and Tiptoe.
On the left, Figure 4 shows each algorithm’s MRR@100
score:forColBERT,wereportthescorefromtheMSMARCO
leaderboard [80]; for BM25, we report the Anserini BM25
baseline document ranking with the default parameters (𝑘1 =
0.9,𝑏 = 0.4) [135]; for tf-idf, we use the Gensim library for
stemming and building the tf-idf matrix [113]; for embedding
search, we use the same embedding function as Tiptoe (but
do not cluster the embeddings). As the MS MARCO data set
is roughly100×smaller than the C4 data set, for Tiptoe, we
reduce the size of embedding and URL clusters by
√
100× =
10×. (Per §4.2, Tiptoe sets the cluster size proportionally to
the square-root of the corpus size.) On average, the top search
result apears at rank 7.7 with Tiptoe. This is worse than the
searchqualityachievedwithColBERT,BM25,andexhaustive
embedding search, but is comparable to that of tf-idf with an
unrestricteddictionarysize.Inparticular,Tiptoe’sMRR@100
score is within 0.02 of tf-idf’s.
The state-of-the-art system for private search over
Wikipedia, Coeus [5], uses tf-idf with a dictionary restricted
to only the 65K stemmed words with the highest inverse-
document-frequency score (that is, the words that appear in
the fewest documents). As the MS MARCO data set con-
tains many document-specific keywords, we find that the
MRR@100 score of tf-idf with Coeus’s method of restricting
the dictionary size is 0. By comparison, Tiptoe’s use of em-
beddings allows it to generalize to large and diverse corpuses
and vocabularies more effectively.
On the right, Figure 4 compares Tiptoe’s distribution of
search results to tf-idf and exhaustive embedding search.
Tiptoe correctly identifies and searches within the cluster
containing the best (human-chosen) result on roughly 35%
of the queries. When it does so, Tiptoe roughly matches the
search quality of the exhaustive search and ranks the human-
chosen result higher on average than tf-idf. However, when it
does not, the human-chosen result does not appear in the 100
search results returned by Tiptoe (because the human-chosen
result does not appear in the cluster that the Tiptoe client is
searchingover).Queryingmoreclusterscouldimprovesearch
quality, but would substantially increase Tiptoe’s costs. One
avenue for improving Tiptoe’s search quality is thus to avoid
the need for clustering: clustering allows Tiptoe to operate at
web scale by drastically reducing communication costs, but
accounts for a large share of the search-quality loss.
In Figure 5, we show Tiptoe’s top search results on several
randomly sampled queries, for both text and image search.
Appendix E lists additional queries and results.
8.3 Tiptoe end-to-end performance
Table 6 shows the end-to-end performance of Tiptoe, as well
as several private search baselines for comparison. Tiptoe’s
text search costs $0.003 per query ($0.008 for image search)
and achieves an end-to-end query latency of 2.7 s (3.5 s for
image search). Tiptoe’s performance compares favorably to
client-side baselines and to Coeus, as we now describe.
Baseline:Client-sidesearchindex. Oneapproachforprivate
searchistodownloadandstoreasearchindexfortheentiredata
set on the client. As shown in Table 6, locally storing Tiptoe’s
text search index requires at least 48 GiB of client storage.
Alternatively, the client could directly download a search
index for a state-of-the-art retrieval scheme like ColBERT
or a keyword-based retrieval scheme like BM25. However,

Q: what test are relvant for heart screenings
A: https://newyorkcardiac.com/best-heart-palpitati
ons-cardiac-doctor-nyc
Q: what is the ige antibody
A: https://www.empr.com/home/news/new-sc-inj-for-pri
mary-immunodeficiency-approved/
Q: foodborne trematodiases symptoms
A: https://bowenmedicalibrary.wordpress.com/2017/
04/04/foodborne-trematodiases/
————————————————————————–
Q: A train is next to an enclosed train station
A: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Waynejunction
0810a.JPG
Q: A man and a woman pose next to a small dog which
is wearing a life jacket
A: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Jack _Lon
don_age_9_-_crop.jpg
Q: A young man wearing a tie and a blue shirt
A: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Emil _Jann
ings_-_no_watermark.jpg
Figure5:SampleofTiptoesearchresults.Attop,answerstorandom
text-search queries from the MS MARCO dev document retrieval
data set. At bottom, answers to random image-search queries from
the MS COCO caption data set [72]; we used rejection sampling to
select queries whose top results are public-domain images.
such client-side indexes would be orders of magnitude larger:
roughly 4.6 TiB for BM25 or 6.4 TiB for ColBERT, perhaps
reduceddownto0.9TiBusingtechniquesfromPLAID [117].
(We estimate the size of the ColBERT and BM25 indices by
scaling up the index sizes reported on the much smaller MS
MARCO document and passage ranking data sets, with the
same configuration we use to report search quality.) Existing
tools [30] could compress the client-side index further at the
expense of search quality, but at an absolute minimum would
require 7.4 GiB of storage just for the compressed URLs.
Baseline: Coeus query-scoring.Coeus is a state-of-the-art
text-search system that uses tf-idf (with a limited vocabulary)
to privately search over five million Wikipedia articles, run-
ningon96machineswith48vCPUseach[5].Coeussupports
private search (“query scoring,” in their terminology) and
private document retrieval; to compare against Tiptoe, we
use Coeus’s query-scoring costs only. Like Tiptoe, Coeus’s
server-sideworkgrowslinearlywiththenumberofdocuments
in the corpus. We estimate that, searching over𝑁 documents,
Coeus’s query-scoring requires10.66·𝑁 bytes of communi-
cation. (We obtained this formula via private communication
with the Coeus authors.) Scaling Coeus’s performance to the
size of the C4 web crawl, which is roughly72× larger than
Wikipedia, we estimate that each query with Coeus would
require more than 3 GiB of download,900 000core-seconds
of server compute, and $4.00 in AWS cost.
IncomparisontoCoeus,Tiptoehasmorethan 1 000×lower
Cost metrics: Clientstorage (GiB)Comm.(MiB/query)Server comp.(core-s/query)End-to-endlatency (s)AWS cost($/query)
Wikipedia search over 5 million docs
Coeus query-scoring [5] 0 50 12900 2.8 0.059
Text search over 360 million docs
Client-side Tiptoe index 48 0 0 0 0
Tiptoe 0.3 42♦ + 15 145 2.7 0.003
Image search over 400 million docs
Client-side Tiptoe index 98 0 0 0 0
Tiptoe 0.7 50♦ + 21 339 3.5 0.008
Table 6: Comparison of Tiptoe to private search alternatives: (1)
Coeus and (2) downloading the Tiptoe index to the client. We give
Coeus’sreportedcosts[5].WecomputeTiptoe’sAWScostusinglist
prices($0.252/hourfor r5.xlarge,$2.016/hourfor r5.8xlarge,and
$0.09/GiB of egress bandwidth). AWS costs do not include one-time
download costs that may be amortized over any number of queries
(i.e., the embedding model and centroid metadata). We highlight
Tiptoe’s performance inyellow .♦This traffic occurs before the
client enters its search query (§6.3).
AWS operating costs. We attribute Tiptoe’s performance im-
provements over Coeus to: (1) semantic embeddings, which
are two orders of magnitude smaller than the rows in a tf-idf
matrix (whose dimension must scale with the size of the
dictionary used); (2) clustering, which allows Tiptoe’s com-
municationtoscalesublinearlywiththenumberofdocuments;
and(3)thehigh-throughputcryptographicprotocols[56]used
byTiptoe,whichareroughlyanorderofmagnitudefasterthan
prior single-server private-information-retrieval schemes.
Image search.A Tiptoe search over the LAION-400M image
data set, which is1.2× larger than the C4 text data set and
uses 2× larger embeddings, is roughly twice as expensive as
textsearchinAWScost:ituses 2.3×morecompute(339core-
seconds/query)and 1.2×morecommunication(71MiB/query,
of which 50 MiB can occur ahead of time).
8.4 Tiptoe cost breakdown
We now detail the operating costs for each of the entities in a
Tiptoe deployment (§3.2):
Data-loading and setup costs.In Table 7, we report ap-
proximate core-hours for Tiptoe’s data-loading batch jobs. To
assign documents to clusters, we used a single, large shared
machine; the running time varied widely with the number
of concurrent active jobs. We balanced the embedding clus-
ters and ran principal component analysis using a set of 100
r5.2xlargeinstances(32 vCPUs, 128 GiBof RAM). Finally,
we constructed the data structures held by the Tiptoe services
on oner5.24xlarge instance (96 vCPUs, 768 GiB of RAM).
In total, Tiptoe’s data-processing pipeline requires roughly
0.01-0.02 core-seconds per document.

Setup cost Text Image
Corpus size
Documents 364M 400M
Embedding dim. 192 384
Index preprocessing (core hours)
Embed (est.)♥ 92 583
Build centroids 224 262
Cluster assign. 703 1,231
Balance, PCA 312 290
Crypto. 50 120
Total (core-s/doc) 0.013 0.022
Client download (GiB)
Model 0.27 0.59
Centroids 0.02 0.02
System configuration (vCPUs)
Token♦ 32 32
Ranking 160 320
URL 16 32
Query cost Text Image
Communication (MiB/query)
Up, token♦ 32.4 32.4
Up, ranking 11.6 16.2
Up, URL 2.4 3.2
Down, token♦ 9.8 17.4
Down, ranking 0.5 1.0
Down, URL 0.1 0.2
Preprocessing (s/query)
Client (§6) 37.7 36.7
Query latency (s)
Token♦ 6.5 8.7
Ranking 1.9 2.5
URL 0.6 0.6
Tot. perceived (s)2.7 3.5
Throughput (query/s)
Token♦ 0.5 0.2
Ranking 2.9 2.3
URL 5.0 7.0
Table 7: Breakdown of Tiptoe costs for text and image search. We
computed text embeddings on a heterogeneous GPU cluster and
we sourced image embeddings from the LAION-400M data set.
♥Estimated GPU-hours on a V100 GPU.♦This step occurs before
the client enters its search query (§6.3).
Search costs.Table 7 additionally gives Tiptoe’s search costs.
With Tiptoe’s optimizations (§6), many of the cryptographic
operations, as well as more than 70% of the client-server
communication, happen before the client has decided on its
search query. For text search, our cluster of machines can
sustain a throughput of 0.5 queries/s for token generation, 2.9
queries/s for ranking, and 5 queries/s for URL retrieval.
8.5 Scaling to tens of billions of documents
Popular search engines index tens of billions of documents or
more [51]. In Figure 8, we analytically compute how Tiptoe’s
search costs would scale to handle data sets of this size. If we
increase the corpus size by a factor of𝑇, the server compute
increases by roughly a factor of𝑇 and the communication
increasesbyroughlyafactorof
√
𝑇.Forexample,onacorpus
of 8 billion documents, the number of Google knowledge
graph entities (as of March 2023) [3], a Tiptoe search query
would require roughly 1900 core-seconds of compute and
140 MiB of communication.
Moreover, Tiptoe’s throughput scales linearly with the
numbersofphysicalmachinesused:doublingthemachinesal-
locatedtoeachserviceroughlydoublesthemeasuredthrough-
put. Tiptoe can support dynamically adding more physical
machines at runtime, by either having more machines serve
each shard of the database or having each machine serve a
smaller shard (without repeating any of the preprocessing).
0 core-s
750 core-s
1500 core-s
2250 core-s
Computation
Commoncrawl C4Library ofCongress Tweetsper week
GoogleKnowledgeGraph entities
0 MiB
25 MiB
50 MiB
75 MiB
Comm.
(token)
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Number of docs in corpus (billions)
0 MiB
25 MiB
50 MiB
75 MiB
Comm.
(ranking + URL)
Figure 8: Analytical Tiptoe per-query performance, scaling to large
textcorpuses[1,2,3,108].Thecrossindicatesmeasuredperformance.
8.6 Impact of optimizations
Figure 9 shows how Tiptoe’s optimizations trade off between
text-search quality and performance. First (not shown in
Figure 9), we reduce the embedding precision from floating
point values to signed 4-bit integers, decreasing MRR@100
by 0.005. Without other optimizations➊, the client must
retrieveaninner-productscoreforeverydocument,resultingin
communicationsimilartothatofCoeus’squeryscoring.With
clustering ➋, computation is constant, but communication
shrinks by20× since the client now only downloads inner-
product scores for one cluster. MRR@100 also decreases by
0.2, as the best result might not be in the chosen cluster.
Without any URL optimizations, the client must run Sim-
plePIRtoindividuallyretrieveeachofthe100URLsdisplayed
to the client. (We use 100 because MRR@100 considers the
top 100 results.) Compressing chunks of URLs and retrieving
only the chunk with the top result➌ reduces communica-
tion and computation by4× at the cost of a drop of 0.04
in MRR@100. Clustering URLs into semantically similar
batches ➍ does not affect communication and computation,
but improves MRR@100 by 0.04.
Assigning documents at cluster boundaries to two clusters
➎ increases index size by1.2× but improves MRR@100
by 0.015. Finally,➏ reducing the embedding dimension by
3× with PCA improves the bandwidth and the computation
by roughly2×, but decreases MRR@100 by 0.02. Overall,
Tiptoe’s optimizations improve communication by two orders
of magnitude and computation by one order of magnitude,
at the cost of a 0.2 drop in MRR@100—on average, the top
result appears at position 7.7 rather than at position 3.

1 MiB10 MiB100 MiB1 GiB10 GiB
Total client-server communication, per query
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Search quality (MRR@100)
➊
➋ ➌
➍ ➎
➏
BM25
tf-idf
Coeus
Better
1101001K10K100K1M
Total server computation, per query (core-s)
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Search quality (MRR@100)
➊
➋ ➌
➍ ➎
➏
BM25
tf-idf
Coeus
Better
Figure 9: Analytical impact of optimizations on Tiptoe’s text search performance. We compute MRR@100 scores (𝑦-axis) on the MS MARCO
data set and performance numbers (𝑥-axis) on the C4 data set. We report measured performance for full Tiptoe, but expected performance
for (a) Coeus and (b) Tiptoe without some optimizations.➊ No optimizations (return inner-product score for every document and run a
private-information-retrieval scheme to retrieve the top 100 results, using a SEAL PIR-like homomorphic encryption scheme [8]).➋Cluster
embeddingsandonlyreturninner-productscoresforacluster. ➌Withinacluster,retrievearandomchunkofURLscontainingthetopresultand
output the top 100 results from this chunk.➍ Cluster the URLs to retrieve a batch of related URLs containing the top result and output the top
100resultsfromthisbatch. ➎Assigndocumentsatclusterboundariesto2clusters. ➏Reducetheembeddingsizeby 3×withPCA(fullTiptoe).
9 Discussion
In this section, we discuss extensions and related topics
pertaining to Tiptoe.
Private advertising.Search engines make money by dis-
playing relevant ads alongside search results [52]. Tiptoe is
compatible with this business model: just as a client uses
Tiptoe to fetch relevant webpages, a client could use Tiptoe to
fetch relevant textual ads. The search provider could embed
each ad using an embedding function. The client would then
use Tiptoe to identify the ads most relevant to its query—
instead of privately fetching a URL in the last protocol step,
the client would privately fetch the text of the ad.
Theprivacyguaranteeshereholdonlyuntiltheclientclicks
on the ad. This type of private ad retrieval may be compatible
with techniques for private impression reporting [53,127].
Private recommendations.Tiptoe’s private nearest-neighbor
search protocol may be useful in applications beyond private
web search, for example in private recommendation engines.
Just like text and images, items can also be represented by
embeddings that map semantic proximity to vector-space
proximity. In a recommendation system, the client can hold
a vector representing its profile or its recently viewed items.
Then, with Tiptoe’s private nearest-neighbor search proto-
col, the client can privately retrieve similar items from the
recommendation system’s servers.
Private search on encrypted data.Tiptoe can be extended
to search overencrypted documents. To do so, the client
processes the corpus (as done, in our prototype, by the Tiptoe
batch jobs): the client embeds each document, clusters the
embeddings,andstoresthecentroidslocally.Insteadofstoring
the plaintext embeddings and URLs on the Tiptoe servers,
the client encrypts the embeddings and URLs and stores the
encryptedsearch data structures on the Tiptoe servers.
Later on, the client can search over these documents while
revealing no information about its query or the corpus (apart
fromthetotalcorpussize)totheserver.Theonlydifferenceto
Tiptoeisthat,intherankingstep,theservermustnowcompute
the inner product of the client’s encrypted query embedding
with eachencrypteddocument vector. This is possible using a
homomorphic encryption scheme that supportsdegree-two
computationson encrypted data [17].
Reducing communication with non-colluding services.In
Tiptoe, the client interacts with a single logical server, which
may be adversarial. If instead the client can communicate
with two search services assumed to be non-colluding, we
can forgo the use of encryption to substantially reduce the
communication costs. To execute the nearest-neighbor search
withinacluster,theclientwouldshareanencodingofitsquery
embedding (vector˜q in Figure 10) using a distributed point
function [18]. The servers could execute the nearest-neighbor
search protocol of §4 on a secret-shared query, instead of
an encrypted one. No server-to-server communication would
be necessary, as the servers only perform linear operations.
URL-fetching would work exactly as in Tiptoe, except with
two-server private information retrieval. We estimate that the
per-querycommunicationontheC4datasetwouldberoughly
1 MiB (instead of Tiptoe’s 56.9 MiB).
Exact keyword search.Tiptoe’s embedding-based search
algorithm does not perform well on textual queries for rare
strings, such as phone numbers, addresses, and uncommon
names. One way to extend Tiptoe to handle such queries
would be to construct a suite of search backends—one for
each common type of exact-string query. For example, there
would be a private phone-number search backend, a private
address-search backend, etc. Each backend would implement
a simple private key-value store mapping each string in the
corpus(e.g.,eachphonenumber)insomecanonicalformatto

the IDs of documents containing that string. The client could
use a standard keyword-based private-information-retrieval
scheme [4,27] to privately query this key-value store.
Upon receiving a query string, the Tiptoe client software
would attempt to extract a string of each supported type
(phone number, address, etc.) from the query string. The
client software would canonicalize the query string and use it
to make a key-value lookup to the corresponding backend.
Personalized search.Tiptoe could potentially support per-
sonalized search by incorporating a client-side embedding
function that takes as input not only the user’s query, but
also the user’s search profile. As an example, the embedding
function could take as input the user’s location so that a query
for “restaurants” would return restaurants that are nearby. The
servers could continue using their embedding function that
does not take a search profile as input, but that preserves the
distance to outputs of the client’s embedding function.
10 Related work
Three popular non-cryptographic methods have been used to
strenghten privacy for web search. The first is to send search
queries to a conventional search engine via an anonymizing
proxy,suchasTor[36]oramix-net[22].Thesecondapproach
uses dummy queries or obfuscates queries [11,15,37,89,93,
101,111,136]. Both techniques still reveal some version
of the client’s query to the search engine, allowing it to
link queries and deanonymize users [46,99,100]. The third
approach is to use trusted hardware [70,83,102], which
provides security guarantees that are only as strong as the
underlying hardware [23,26,54,60,88,98,110,120,126,129,
130,131,132]. Because trusted execution environments leak
memory-access patterns, a trusted-hardware-based approach
wouldneedtouseobliviousRAM[48]tohidememory-access
patterns, incurring additional overheads [32,82,118].
DuckDuckGo and other privacy-preserving search engines
do not track users and route queries to search back-ends
without identifying information. However, the search back-
ends similarly still learn the client’s search query in plaintext.
Coeus[5]isaprivateWikipediasearchsystemwithsecurity
propertiesmatchingthoseofTiptoe,butatordersofmagnitude
higher costs (Table 6). While Tiptoe uses embedding-based
search, which works well for conceptual queries, Coeus uses
tf-idf search, which better handles exact-string matching but
cannot support non-text search.
Cryptographic private-information-retrieval protocols [28,
67] also perform private lookups, though they only natively
support private array lookups or key-value queries, rather
than full-text string queries. The performance of private-
information-retrieval systems has improved by orders of mag-
nitudeinrecentyears[4,7,8,9,56,77,79,86],takingadvantage
offastlattice-basedencryptiontechniques[112].Anumberof
recentworkshaveshownhowtobuildsingle-serversublinear-
time private-information-retrieval protocols. However, these
schemesstillhavehighper-queryoverheadsinpractice[29,73]
or require streaming the entire database to the client [87,137],
whichisimpracticalforalargedatabasethatchangesregularly.
Tiptoe also exploits lattice-based encryption schemes (§4)
and uses private information retrieval as a subroutine (§5).
Splinter [133] is a system that extends private information
retrieval to support more expressive query types (e.g., range
queries with various aggregation functions), provided that
the client can communicate with two non-colluding database
replicas. Splinter does not support full-text search.
An orthogonal line of work has developed cryptographic
protocolsandsystemsforprivatesearchon privatedata.These
techniques include symmetric searchable encryption [20,21,
31,35,43,47,64,65,90,116,124,125], their realization in
encrypted databases [42,96,97,103,104,128], and related
systems [33,34]. In contrast, Tiptoe allows private queries to
apublicdocument corpus.
Tiptoe uses semantic embeddings to reduce the problem of
text(orimage)searchtothatofprivatenearest-neighborsearch.
Many prior works have constructed protocols for private
nearest-neighbor search, though these systems in general
require multiple non-colluding services [24,59,105,122],
rely on computationally heavy cryptographic tools, which
practically limits the corpus to a few thousand entries [123,
139], or leak some information about the client’s query to the
server [12,14,115]. In contrast, Tiptoe requires only a single
infrastructure provider, searches over hundreds of millions of
documents, and leaks no infomation about the client’s query.
Some prior work also uses embeddings with homomorphic
encryption for text search [12] or image matching [38], al-
thoughtheseeitherleakinformationabouttheclient’squeryor
incurcommunicationcostslinearinthenumberofdocuments
andhighcomputationcosts(asmuchasthreehoursofcompu-
tationwithtencoresfor100millionrecords).Adistinguishing
point is that some of these works [38,105,122,123] provide
two-sided privacy: they reveal little about the server’s data set
to the client, apart from the query result. Tiptoe, on the other
hand, assumes that the server’s data set is public.
Tiptoe uses clustering to implement nearest-neighbor-
searchwithfewclient-serverroundtrips.Thetaskofdesigning
a clustering-based index for private search is similar to that of
designing a (non-private) nearest-neighbor-search algorithm
optimized to minimize for disk accesses: both cases aim to
minimize the number of reads to the index [25,61].
Tiptoedrawsinspirationfromnon-privateembedding-based
information-retrieval systems. Many such systems rely on
dense document representations and leverage approximate
nearest neighbors techniques to efficiently find the closest
documents [58,71,106,114]. An alternative approach uses a
sparse document representation, which can capture informa-
tion at the token level, such as the classic BM25 algorithm or
the newer SPLADE model [41,69].

11 Conclusion
Tiptoe demonstrates that a client can search over hundreds of
millionsofserver-helddocumentsatmodestcost,whilehiding
its query from the server. The key idea in Tiptoe is to use
semanticembeddingstoreduceacomplexproblem(text/image
search) to a simple and crypto-friendly one (nearest-neighbor
search). We expect this technique may be broadly useful in
privacy-protecting systems.
Acknowledgements.We thank the anonymous SOSP reviewers for
their thoughtful feedback, and we thank Stefan Savage for serving as
our shepherd for this paper. Eric Rescorla encouraged us to work on
thisproblemfromthestart.WethankLeodeCastro,RyanLehmkuhl,
Vinod Vaikuntanathan and Yael Kalai for helpful discussions about
fully homomorphic encryption, and we thank Jacob Andreas for tips
on natural-language embeddings. Anish Athalye, Christian Mouchet,
David Mazières, Dima Kogan, Frans Kaashoek, Matei Zaharia, and
Raluca Ada Popa gave suggestions that improved the presentation.
Dan Boneh, Sam Hopkins, Stefan Groha, and Stefan Heule gave
helpful comments on half-baked early versions of this work. Larry
Gibbs suggested the system name. This work was funded in part
by gifts from Capital One, Facebook, Google, Mozilla, NASDAQ,
and MIT’s FinTech@CSAIL Initiative. We also received support
under NSF Award CNS-2054869 and from the RISE and Sky labs at
UC Berkeley. Alexandra Henzinger was supported by the National
Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship under Grant
No. 2141064 and an EECS Great Educators Fellowship. Emma
Dauterman was supported by an NSF Graduate Research Fellowship
and a Microsoft Ada Lovelace Research Fellowship.
References
[1] New tweets per second record, and how!
https://blog.twitter.com/engineering/en_us/a/
2013/new-tweets-per-second-record-and-how ,
accessed 17 April 2023, 2013.
[2] Annual report of the librarian of congress.https://
www.loc.gov/static/portals/about/reports-and-
budgets/documents/annual-reports/fy2021.pdf,
accessed 17 April 2023, 2021.
[3] Google knowledge graph. https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Knowledge_Graph,
accessed 17 April 2023, 2023.
[4] IshtiyaqueAhmad,DivyakantAgrawal,AmrElAbbadi,
and Trinabh Gupta. Pantheon: Private retrieval from
public key-value store. Proceedings of the VLDB
Endowment, 16(4):643–656, 2022.
[5] Ishtiyaque Ahmad, Laboni Sarker, Divyakant Agrawal,
Amr El Abbadi, and Trinabh Gupta. Coeus: A system
for oblivious document ranking and retrieval. InPro-
ceedings of the 28th ACM Symposium on Operating
Systems Principles (SOSP), pages 672–690, Virtual
conference, October 2021.
[6] MartinAlbrecht,RachelPlayer,andSamScott. Onthe
concrete hardness of learning with errors.Journal of
Mathematical Cryptology, 9(3):169–203, 2015.
[7] Asra Ali, Tancrède Lepoint, Sarvar Patel, Mariana
Raykova, Phillipp Schoppmann, Karn Seth, and Kevin
Yeo. Communication–Computation trade-offs in PIR.
In Proceedings of the 30th USENIX Security Sympo-
sium, pages 1811–1828, Vancouver, Canada, August
2021.
[8] Sebastian Angel, Hao Chen, Kim Laine, and Srinath
Setty. PIR with compressed queries and amortized
query processing. InProceedings of the 39th IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages 962–979,
San Francisco, CA, May 2018.
[9] Sebastian Angel and Srinath Setty. Unobservable com-
munication over fully untrusted infrastructure. InPro-
ceedingsofthe12thUSENIXSymposiumonOperating
Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI), pages
551–569, Savannah, GA, November 2016.
[10] Apache Software Foundation. Lucene, 2023.https:
//lucene.apache.org/.
[11] Avi Arampatzis, George Drosatos, and Pavlos S.
Efraimidis. Versatile query scrambling for private web
search. Information Retrieval Journal, 18:331–358,
2015.
[12] Daisuke Aritomo, Chiemi Watanabe, Masaki Matsub-
ara, and Atsuyuki Morishima. A privacy-preserving
similarity search scheme over encrypted word em-
beddings. In Proceedings of the 21st International
Conference on Information Integration and Web-based
Applications & Services, pages 403–412, 2019.
[13] Michael Arrington. AOL proudly releases mas-
sive amounts of private data, August 2006.
https://techcrunch.com/2006/08/06/aol-
proudly-releases-massive-amounts-of-user-
search-data/.
[14] Martin Aumüller, Tobias Christiani, Rasmus Pagh, and
Francesco Silvestri. Distance-sensitive hashing. In
Proceedingsofthe37thACMSymposiumonPrinciples
of Database Systems (PODS), pages 89–104, Houston,
TX, June 2018.
[15] Ero Balsa, Carmela Troncoso, and Claudia Diaz. OB-
PWS: Obfuscation-based private web search. InPro-
ceedings of the 33rd IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy, pages 491–505, San Francisco, CA, May
2012.

[16] Amos Beimel, Yuval Ishai, and Tal Malkin. Reducing
the servers’ computation in private information re-
trieval:PIRwithpreprocessing. JournalofCryptology ,
17(2):125–151, 2004.
[17] DanBoneh,Eu-JinGoh,andKobbiNissim. Evaluating
2-DNF formulas on ciphertexts. InProceedings of the
2nd IACR Theory of Cryptography Conference (TCC),
pages 325–341, Cambridge, MA, February 2005.
[18] Elette Boyle, Niv Gilboa, and Yuval Ishai. Function
secret sharing: Improvements and extensions. InPro-
ceedingsofthe23rdACMConferenceonComputerand
Communications Security (CCS), pages 1292–1303,
Vienna, Austria, October 2016.
[19] Zvika Brakerski, Nico Döttling, Sanjam Garg, and
GiulioMalavolta. Leveraginglineardecryption:Rate-1
fully-homomorphic encryption and time-lock puzzles.
In Proceedings of the 17th IACR Theory of Cryp-
tography Conference (TCC), Nuremberg, Germany,
December 2019.
[20] David Cash, Joseph Jaeger, Stanislaw Jarecki, Charan-
jit S Jutla, Hugo Krawczyk, Marcel-Catalin Rosu, and
Michael Steiner. Dynamic searchable encryption in
very-large databases: data structures and implementa-
tion. InProceedings of the 2014 Annual Network and
Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS), pages
23–26, San Diego, CA, February 2014.
[21] Yan-ChengChangandMichaelMitzenmacher. Privacy
preservingkeywordsearchesonremoteencrypteddata.
InProceedingsofthe11thAnnualInternationalConfer-
ence on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and
Information Security (ASIACRYPT), pages 442–455,
Chennai, India, December 2005.
[22] David L. Chaum. Untraceable electronic mail, return
addresses, and digital pseudonyms.Communications
of the ACM, 24(2), February 1981.
[23] Guoxing Chen, Sanchuan Chen, Yuan Xiao, Yinqian
Zhang, Zhiqiang Lin, and Ten H Lai. SGXPECTRE:
Stealing intel secrets from SGX enclaves via spec-
ulative execution. In Proceedings of the 4th IEEE
European Symposium on Security and Privacy, Stock-
holm, Sweden, June 2019.
[24] Hao Chen, Ilaria Chillotti, Yihe Dong, Oxana Poburin-
naya, Ilya Razenshteyn, and M Sadegh Riazi. SANNS:
Scaling up secure approximate k-nearest neighbors
search. In Proceedings of the 29th USENIX Secu-
rity Symposium, pages 2111–2128, Virtual conference,
August 2020.
[25] Qi Chen, Bing Zhao, Haidong Wang, Mingqin Li,
Chuanjie Liu, Zengzhong Li, Mao Yang, and Jing-
dong Wang. SPANN: Highly-efficient billion-scale
approximate nearest neighbor search, 2021.https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2111.08566.
[26] Zitai Chen, Georgios Vasilakis, Kit Murdock, Edward
Dean, David Oswald, and Flavio D Garcia. VoltPil-
lager: Hardware-based fault injection attacks against
intel SGX enclaves using the SVID voltage scaling
interface. InProceedings of the 30th USENIX Security
Symposium, Vancouver, Canada, August 2021.
[27] Benny Chor, Niv Gilboa, and Moni Naor. Private
information retrieval by keywords. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Paper 1998/003, February 1998.https://
eprint.iacr.org/1998/003.
[28] Benny Chor, Eyal Kushilevitz, Oded Goldreich, and
Madhu Sudan. Private information retrieval.Journal
of the ACM, 45(6):965–981, November 1998.
[29] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Alexandra Henzinger, and
Dmitry Kogan. Single-server private information re-
trievalwithsublinearamortizedtime.In Proceedingsof
the41stAnnualInternationalConferenceontheTheory
andApplicationsofCryptographicTechniques(EURO-
CRYPT), Trondheim, Norway, May 2022.
[30] Criteo. AutoFaiss. https://github.com/criteo/
autofaiss, accessed 16 April 2023, 2023.
[31] Reza Curtmola, Juan Garay, Seny Kamara, and Rafail
Ostrovsky.Searchablesymmetricencryption:improved
definitionsandefficientconstructions. JournalofCom-
puter Security, 19(5):895–934, 2011.
[32] Emma Dauterman, Vivian Fang, Ioannis Demertzis,
Natacha Crooks, and Raluca Ada Popa. Snoopy: Sur-
passing the scalability bottleneck of oblivious storage.
InProceedingsofthe28thACMSymposiumonOperat-
ingSystemsPrinciples(SOSP) ,pages655–671,Virtual
conference, October 2021.
[33] Emma Dauterman, Eric Feng, Ellen Luo, Raluca Ada
Popa, and Ion Stoica. Dory: An encrypted search
system with distributed trust. InProceedings of the
14thUSENIXSymposiumonOperatingSystemsDesign
andImplementation(OSDI) ,pages1101–1119,Virtual
conference, November 2020.
[34] Emma Dauterman, Mayank Rathee, Raluca Ada Popa,
and Ion Stoica. Waldo: A private time-series database
from function secret sharing. InProceedings of the
43rd IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, San
Francisco, CA, May 2022.

[35] IoannisDemertzis,DimitriosPapadopoulos,Charalam-
pos Papamanthou, and Saurabh Shintre. SEAL: Attack
mitigation for encrypted databases via adjustable leak-
age. In Proceedings of the 29th USENIX Security
Symposium, Virtual conference, August 2020.
[36] RogerDingledine,NickMathewson,andPaulSyverson.
Tor: The second-generation onion router. InProceed-
ings of the 13th USENIX Security Symposium, pages
303–320, San Diego, CA, August 2004.
[37] Josep Domingo-Ferrer, Agusti Solanas, and Jordi
Castellà-Roca. h(k)-private information retrieval from
privacy-uncooperative queryable databases. Online
Information Review, 33(4):720–744, 2009.
[38] Joshua J Engelsma, Anil K Jain, and Vishnu Naresh
Boddeti. Hers: Homomorphically encrypted repre-
sentation search. IEEE Transactions on Biometrics,
Behavior, and Identity Science, 4(3):349–360, 2022.
[39] Hugging Face. Semantic search with FAISS,
2023. https://huggingface.co/learn/nlp-course/
chapter5/6?fw=tf.
[40] Junfeng Fan and Frederik Vercauteren. Somewhat
practical fully homomorphic encryption. Cryptology
ePrint Archive, Paper 2012/144, March 2012.https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2012/144.
[41] Thibault Formal, Benjamin Piwowarski, and Stéphane
Clinchant. SPLADE: Sparse lexical and expansion
modelforfirststageranking. In Proceedingsofthe44th
InternationalACMSIGIRConferenceonResearchand
Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR), pages
2288–2292, Virtual conference, July 2021.
[42] Benjamin Fuller, Mayank Varia, Arkady Yerukhi-
movich, Emily Shen, Ariel Hamlin, Vĳay Gadepally,
RichardShay,JohnDarbyMitchell,andRobertKCun-
ningham. SoK: Cryptographically protected database
search. InProceedings of the 38th IEEE Symposium
onSecurityandPrivacy ,pages172–191,SanJose,CA,
May 2017.
[43] Sanjam Garg, Payman Mohassel, and Charalampos
Papamanthou. TWORAM: efficient oblivious RAM in
two rounds with applications to searchable encryption.
In Proceedings of the 36th Annual International Cryp-
tology Conference (CRYPTO), pages 563–592, Santa
Barbara, CA, August 2016.
[44] Craig Gentry. Fully homomorphic encryption using
ideal lattices. InProceedings of the 41st Annual ACM
Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC), pages
169–178, Bethesda, MD, May–June 2009.
[45] CraigGentryandShaiHalevi. CompressibleFHEwith
applications to PIR. InProceedings of the 17th IACR
Theory of Cryptography Conference (TCC), Nurem-
berg, Germany, December 2019.
[46] Arthur Gervais, Reza Shokri, Adish Singla, Srdjan
Capkun,andVincentLenders. Quantifyingweb-search
privacy. InProceedingsofthe21stACMConferenceon
Computer and Communications Security (CCS), pages
966–977, Scottsdale, AZ, November 2014.
[47] Eu-Jin Goh. Secure indexes. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Paper 2003/216, October 2003. https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2003/216.
[48] Oded Goldreich and Rafail Ostrovsky. Software pro-
tection and simulation on oblivious RAMs.Journal of
the ACM, 43(3):431–473, May 1996.
[49] Shafi Goldwasser and Silvio Micali. Probabilistic
encryption. Journal of Computer and System Sciences,
28(2):270–299, 1984.
[50] Google. In-depth guide to how google search
works. https://developers.google.com/search/
docs/fundamentals/how-search-works.
[51] Google. How Google Search organizes information.
https://www.google.com/search/howsearchworks/
how-search-works/organizing-information/,
accessed 17 April 2023, 2023.
[52] Google. How our business works. https://
about.google/how-our-business-works/, accessed
17 April 2023, 2023.
[53] Matthew Green, Watson Ladd, and Ian Miers. A proto-
col for privately reporting ad impressions at scale. In
Proceedingsofthe23rdACMConferenceonComputer
and Communications Security (CCS), Vienna, Austria,
October 2016.
[54] Daniel Gruss, Moritz Lipp, Michael Schwarz, Daniel
Genkin, Jonas Juffinger, Sioli O’Connell, Wolfgang
Schoechl,andYuvalYarom. Anotherflipinthewallof
Rowhammerdefenses. InProceedingsofthe39thIEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy, San Francisco,
CA, May 2018.
[55] Katie Hafner. Researchers yearn to use AOL
logs, but they hesitate, August 2006. https:
//www.nytimes.com/2006/08/23/technology/
23search.html.
[56] Alexandra Henzinger, Matthew M. Hong, Henry
Corrigan-Gibbs, Sarah Meiklejohn, and Vinod Vaikun-
tanathan. One server for the price of two: Simple
and fast single-server private information retrieval. In

Proceedings of the 32nd USENIX Security Symposium,
Anaheim, CA, August 2022.
[57] Sebastian Hofstätter, Sheng-Chieh Lin, Jheng-
Hong Yang, Jimmy Lin, and Allan Han-
bury. msmarco-distilbert-base-tas-b model.
https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/
msmarco-distilbert-base-tas-b.
[58] Sebastian Hofstätter, Sheng-Chieh Lin, Jheng-Hong
Yang, Jimmy Lin, and Allan Hanbury. Efficiently
teaching an effective dense retriever with balanced
topic aware sampling. In Proceedings of the 44th
InternationalACMSIGIRConferenceonResearchand
Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR), pages
113–122, Virtual conference, July 2021.
[59] Piotr Indyk and David Woodruff. Polylogarithmic
private approximations and efficient matching. In
Proceedings of the 3rd IACR Theory of Cryptography
Conference (TCC), pages 245–264, New York, NY,
March 2006.
[60] Yeongjin Jang, Jaehyuk Lee, Sangho Lee, and Tae-
soo Kim. SGX-Bomb: Locking down the processor
via Rowhammer attack. InProceedings of the 2nd
Workshop on System Software for Trusted Execution,
October 2017.
[61] SuhasJayaramSubramanya,FnuDevvrit,HarshaVard-
han Simhadri, Ravishankar Krishnawamy, and Rohan
Kadekodi. DiskANN: Fast accurate billion-point near-
est neighbor search on a single node.Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 32, 2019.
[62] Hervé Jegou, Matthĳs Douze, and Jeff John-
son. Faiss: A library for efficient similarity
search. https://engineering.fb.com/2017/03/
29/data-infrastructure/faiss-a-library-for-
efficient-similarity-search/, March 29, 2017.
[63] JeffJohnson,MatthĳsDouze,andHervéJégou.Billion-
scale similarity search with GPUs.IEEE Transactions
on Big Data, 7(3):535–547, 2019.
[64] Seny Kamara and Charalampos Papamanthou. Par-
allel and dynamic searchable symmetric encryption.
In Proceedings of the 17th International Financial
Cryptography and Data Security Conference, pages
258–274, Okinawa, Japan, April 2013.
[65] Seny Kamara, Charalampos Papamanthou, and Tom
Roeder. Dynamicsearchablesymmetricencryption. In
Proceedingsofthe19thACMConferenceonComputer
and Communications Security (CCS), pages 965–976,
Raleigh, NC, October 2012.
[66] Omar Khattab and Matei Zaharia. Colbert: Efficient
and effective passage search via contextualized late
interaction over BERT. InProceedings of the 43rd
InternationalACMSIGIRConferenceonResearchand
Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR), pages
39–48, Virtual conference, July 2020.
[67] Eyal Kushilevitz and Rafail Ostrovsky. Replication is
not needed: Single database, computationally-private
information retrieval. InProceedings of the 38th An-
nual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer
Science (FOCS), Miami Beach, FL, October 1997.
[68] UKP Lab. Sentence transformers: Multilingual
sentence, paragraph, and image embeddings using
BERT&co. https://github.com/UKPLab/sentence-
transformers.
[69] CarlosLassanceandStéphaneClinchant. Anefficiency
study for SPLADE models. InProceedings of the 45th
InternationalACMSIGIRConferenceonResearchand
Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR), pages
2220–2226, Madrid, Spain, July 2022.
[70] Mingyu Li, Jinhao Zhu, Tianxu Zhang, Cheng Tan,
YubinXia,SebastianAngel,andHaiboChen. Bringing
decentralized search to decentralized services. InPro-
ceedingsofthe15thUSENIXSymposiumonOperating
Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI), pages
331–347, Virtual conference, July 2021.
[71] Sheng-Chieh Lin, Jheng-Hong Yang, and Jimmy Lin.
In-batch negatives for knowledge distillation with
tightly-coupledteachersfordenseretrieval. In Proceed-
ings of the 6th Workshop on Representation Learning
for NLP (RepL4NLP), pages 163–173, 2021.
[72] Tsung-Yi Lin, Michael Maire, Serge Belongie, James
Hays, Pietro Perona, Deva Ramanan, Piotr Dollár, and
C Lawrence Zitnick. Microsoft COCO: Common
objects in context. InProceedings of the 13th Euro-
pean Conference on Computer Vision, pages 740–755,
Zurich, Switzerland, September 2014.
[73] Wei-Kai Lin, Ethan Mook, and Daniel Wichs. Dou-
bly efficient private information retrieval and fully
homomorphic RAM computation from ring LWE. In
Proceedings of the 55th Annual ACM Symposium on
TheoryofComputing(STOC) ,pages595–608,Orlando,
FL, June 2023.
[74] Vadim Lyubashevsky, Chris Peikert, and Oded Regev.
Onideallatticesandlearningwitherrorsoverrings. In
Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Confer-
ence on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic
Techniques (EUROCRYPT), Monaco and Nice, France,
May–June 2010.

[75] Rasoul Akhavan Mahdavi, Abdulrahman Diaa, and
Florian Kerschbaum. HE is all you need: Compressing
FHE ciphertexts using additive HE, 2023.
[76] Ninareh Mehrabi, Fred Morstatter, Nripsuta Saxena,
Kristina Lerman, and Aram Galstyan. A survey on
biasandfairnessinmachinelearning. ACMcomputing
surveys (CSUR), 54(6):1–35, 2021.
[77] Carlos Aguilar Melchor, Joris Barrier, Laurent Fousse,
and Marc-Olivier Killĳian. XPIR: Private information
retrieval for everyone. InProceedings of the 16th Pri-
vacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium, Darmstadt,
Germany, July 2016.
[78] Carlos Aguilar Melchor, Philippe Gaborit, and Javier
Herranz. Additively homomorphic encryption with𝑑-
operandmultiplications. InProceedingsofthe30thAn-
nual International Cryptology Conference (CRYPTO),
Santa Barbara, CA, August 2010.
[79] Samir Jordan Menon and David J. Wu.Spiral: Fast,
high-rate single-server PIR via FHE composition. In
Proceedings of the 43rd IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy, San Francisco, CA, May 2022.
[80] Microsoft. MS MARCO document ranking leader-
board. https://microsoft.github.io/MSMARCO-
Document-Ranking-Submissions/leaderboard/, ac-
cessed 15 April 2023.
[81] Tomas Mikolov, Kai Chen, Greg Corrado, and Jeffrey
Dean. Efficient estimation of word representations
in vector space. InProceedings of the 1st Interna-
tionalConferenceonLearningRepresentations(ICLR) ,
Scottsdale, AZ, May 2013.
[82] PratyushMishra,RishabhPoddar,JerryChen,Alessan-
dro Chiesa, and Raluca Ada Popa. Oblix: An efficient
oblivioussearchindex.In Proceedingsofthe39thIEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy, San Francisco,
CA, May 2018.
[83] Sonia Ben Mokhtar, Antoine Boutet, Pascal Felber,
Marcelo Pasin, Rafael Pires, and Valerio Schiavoni.
X-search: revisiting private web search using Intel
SGX. InProceedings of the 18th ACM/IFIP/USENIX
Middleware Conference, pages 198–208, 2017.
[84] Jiaqi Mu and Pramod Viswanath. All-but-the-top:
Simple and effective post-processing for word repre-
sentations. In Proceedings of the 6th International
Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), Van-
couver, Canada, April–May 2018.
[85] NiklasMuennighoff,NouamaneTazi,LoïcMagne,and
Nils Reimers. MTEB: Massive text embedding bench-
mark, 2023. https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.07316.
[86] Muhammad Haris Mughees, Hao Chen, and Ling Ren.
OnionPIR: Response efficient single-server PIR. In
Proceedingsofthe28thACMConferenceonComputer
andCommunicationsSecurity(CCS) ,page2292–2306,
Virtual conference, November 2021.
[87] MuhammadHarisMugheesandLingRen. Simpleand
practical single-server sublinear private information
retrieval. Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2023.
[88] Kit Murdock, David Oswald, Flavio D Garcia,
Jo Van Bulck, Daniel Gruss, and Frank Piessens. Plun-
dervolt: Software-based fault injection attacks against
Intel SGX. InProceedings of the 41st IEEE Sympo-
siumonSecurityandPrivacy ,SanFrancisco,CA,May
2020.
[89] MummoorthyMurugesanandChrisClifton. Providing
privacy through plausibly deniable search. InProceed-
ings of the 2009 SIAM International Conference on
Data Mining, pages 768–779. SIAM, 2009.
[90] Muhammad Naveed, Manoj Prabhakaran, and Carl A
Gunter. Dynamic searchable encryption via blind
storage. InProceedings of the 35th IEEE Symposium
onSecurityandPrivacy ,pages639–654,SanJose,CA,
May 2014.
[91] Pandu Nayak. Understanding searches better than
ever before, 2019.https://blog.google/products/
search/search-language-understanding-bert/.
[92] Tri Nguyen, Mir Rosenberg, Xia Song, Jianfeng Gao,
Saurabh Tiwary, Rangan Majumder, and Li Deng. MS
MARCO: A human generated machine reading com-
prehensiondataset. In ProceedingsoftheWorkshopon
Cognitive Computation: Integrating Neural and Sym-
bolic Approaches (CoCo@NIPS), Barcelona, Spain,
December 2016.
[93] Helen Nissenbaum and Howe Daniel. TrackMeNot:
Resisting surveillance in web search. InLessons from
the Identity Trail: Anonymity, Privacy, and Identity in
a Networked Society. Oxford University Press, 2009.
[94] Tatsuaki Okamoto and Shigenori Uchiyama. A new
public-key cryptosystem as secure as factoring. InPro-
ceedings of the 17th Annual International Conference
ontheTheoryandApplicationsofCryptographicTech-
niques (EUROCRYPT), Helsinki, Finland, May–June
1998.
[95] PascalPaillier.Public-keycryptosystemsbasedoncom-
positedegreeresiduosityclasses. In Proceedingsofthe
18th Annual International Conference on the Theory
and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques (EU-
ROCRYPT), pages 223–238, Prague, Czech Republic,
May 1999.

[96] Antonis Papadimitriou, Ranjita Bhagwan, Nishanth
Chandran,RamachandranRamjee,AndreasHaeberlen,
Harmeet Singh, Abhishek Modi, and Saikrishna Badri-
narayanan. Big data analytics over encrypted datasets
with Seabed. InProceedings of the 12th USENIX Sym-
posium on Operating Systems Design and Implementa-
tion(OSDI),pages587–602,Savannah,GA,November
2016.
[97] Vasilis Pappas, Fernando Krell, Binh Vo, Vladimir
Kolesnikov, Tal Malkin, Seung Geol Choi, Wesley
George, Angelos Keromytis, and Steve Bellovin. Blind
seer: A scalable private DBMS. InProceedings of the
35th IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages
359–374, San Jose, CA, May 2014.
[98] Bryan Parno, Jacob R Lorch, John R Douceur, James
Mickens, and Jonathan M McCune. Memoir: Practical
state continuity for protected modules. InProceedings
of the 32nd IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy,
Oakland, CA, May 2011.
[99] SaiTejaPeddintiandNiteshSaxena. Websearchquery
privacy: Evaluating query obfuscation and anonymiz-
ingnetworks. JournalofComputerSecurity ,22(1):155–
199, 2014.
[100] Albin Petit, Thomas Cerqueus, Antoine Boutet, So-
nia Ben Mokhtar, David Coquil, Lionel Brunie, and
Harald Kosch. SimAttack: private web search under
fire. Journal of Internet Services and Applications,
7(1):1–17, 2016.
[101] Albin Petit, Thomas Cerqueus, Sonia Ben Mokhtar,
Lionel Brunie, and Harald Kosch. PEAS: Private, effi-
cient and accurate web search. InProceedings of the
IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and
Privacy in Computing and Communications (TRUST-
COM), pages 571–580, 2015.
[102] Rafael Pires, David Goltzsche, Sonia Ben Mokhtar,
Sara Bouchenak, Antoine Boutet, Pascal Felber, Rüdi-
ger Kapitza, Marcelo Pasin, and Valerio Schiavoni.
CYCLOSA:Decentralizingprivatewebsearchthrough
SGX-based browser extensions. InProceedings of the
38th IEEE International Conference on Distributed
Computing Systems (ICDCS), pages 467–477, Vienna,
Austria, July 2018.
[103] Rishabh Poddar, Tobias Boelter, and Raluca Ada Popa.
Arx: an encrypted database using semantically secure
encryption. InProceedings of the 45th International
Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB), pages
1664–1678, Los Angeles, CA, August 2019.
[104] Raluca Ada Popa, Catherine M. S. Redfield, Nickolai
Zeldovich, and Hari Balakrishnan. CryptDB: Protect-
ingconfidentialitywithencryptedqueryprocessing. In
Proceedings of the 23rd ACM Symposium on Operat-
ing Systems Principles (SOSP), pages 85–100, Cascais,
Portugal, October 2011.
[105] Yinian Qi and Mikhail J. Atallah. Efficient privacy-
preservingk-nearestneighborsearch.In Proceedingsof
the28thIEEEInternationalConferenceonDistributed
Computing Systems (ICDCS), pages 311–319, Beĳing,
China, June 2008.
[106] Yingqi Qu, Yuchen Ding, Jing Liu, Kai Liu, Ruiyang
Ren, Wayne Xin Zhao, Daxiang Dong, Hua Wu, and
Haifeng Wang. RocketQA: An optimized training
approach to dense passage retrieval for open-domain
question answering. 2020.https://arxiv.org/abs/
2010.08191.
[107] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh,GabrielGoh,SandhiniAgarwal,GirishSastry,
AmandaAskell,PamelaMishkin,JackClark,Gretchen
Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. Learning transferable
visual models from natural language supervision. In
Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on
Machine Learning (ICML), pages 8748–8763, Virtual
conference, July 2021.
[108] Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Kather-
ine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi
Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J. Liu. C4 model.https:
//huggingface.co/datasets/c4.
[109] Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine
Lee,SharanNarang,MichaelMatena,YanqiZhou,Wei
Li, and Peter J. Liu. Exploring the limits of transfer
learning with a unified text-to-text transformer, 2019.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.10683.
[110] Hany Ragab, Alyssa Milburn, Kaveh Razavi, Herbert
Bos, and Cristiano Giuffrida. Crosstalk: Speculative
data leaks across cores are real. InProceedings of
the 42nd IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy,
Virtual conference, May 2021.
[111] David Rebollo-Monedero and Jordi Forné. Optimized
query forgery for private information retrieval.IEEE
TransactionsonInformationTheory ,56(9):4631–4642,
2010.
[112] Oded Regev. On lattices, learning with errors, random
linear codes, and cryptography.Journal of the ACM,
56(6):1–40, 2009.
[113] Radim Řehůřek and Petr Sojka. Software Framework
for Topic Modelling with Large Corpora. InProceed-
ingsoftheLREC2010WorkshoponNewChallengesfor
NLP Frameworks, pages 45–50, Valletta, Malta, May
2010. http://is.muni.cz/publication/884893/en.

[114] Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. Sentence-BERT:
Sentence embeddings using siamese BERT-networks,
2019. https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.10084.
[115] M Sadegh Riazi, Beidi Chen, Anshumali Shrivastava,
Dan Wallach, and Farinaz Koushanfar. Sub-linear
privacy-preservingnear-neighborsearch,2016. https:
//arxiv.org/abs/1612.01835.
[116] PanagiotisRizomiliotisandStefanosGritzalis. ORAM
based forward privacy preserving dynamic search-
able symmetric encryption schemes. InProceedings
of the 2015 ACM Cloud Computing Security Work-
shop (CCSW), pages 65–76, Denver, CO, October
2015.
[117] Keshav Santhanam, Omar Khattab, Christopher Potts,
and Matei Zaharia. Plaid: an efficient engine for late
interaction retrieval. InProceedings of the 31st ACM
InternationalConferenceonInformation&Knowledge
Management, pages 1747–1756, 2022.
[118] Sajin Sasy, Sergey Gorbunov, and Christopher W
Fletcher.ZeroTrace:Obliviousmemoryprimitivesfrom
IntelSGX. InProceedingsofthe2018AnnualNetwork
and Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS),
San Diego, CA, February 2018.
[119] Christoph Schuhmann, Richard Vencu, Romain Beau-
mont, Robert Kaczmarczyk, Clayton Mullis, Aarush
Katta, Theo Coombes, Jenia Jitsev, and Aran Komat-
suzaki. LAION-400M: Open dataset of CLIP-filtered
400 million image-text pairs. InProceedings of the
2021 NeurIPS Data-Centric AI Workshop, December
2021.
[120] Michael Schwarz, Moritz Lipp, Daniel Moghimi,
Jo Van Bulck, Julian Stecklina, Thomas Prescher, and
Daniel Gruss. ZombieLoad: Cross-privilege-boundary
data sampling. In Proceedings of the 26th ACM
Conference on Computer and Communications Se-
curity (CCS), London, United Kingdom, November
2019.
[121] Microsoft SEAL (release 4.1).https://github.com/
Microsoft/SEAL, January 2023. Microsoft Research,
Redmond, WA.
[122] Sacha Servan-Schreiber, Simon Langowski, and Srini-
vas Devadas. Private approximate nearest neighbor
search with sublinear communication. InProceedings
of the 43rd IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy,
pages 911–929, San Francisco, CA, May 2022.
[123] Hayim Shaul, Dan Feldman, and Daniela Rus. Secure
𝑘-ish nearest neighbors classifier, 2018. https://
arxiv.org/abs/1801.07301.
[124] Dawn Xiaoding Song, David Wagner, and Adrian Per-
rig. Practical techniques for searches on encrypted
data. InProceedings of the 21st IEEE Symposium on
Security and Privacy, pages 44–55, Oakland, CA, May
2000.
[125] Emil Stefanov, Charalampos Papamanthou, and Elaine
Shi. Practical dynamic searchable encryption with
small leakage. In Proceedings of the 2014 An-
nual Network and Distributed System Security Sympo-
sium (NDSS), pages 72–75, San Diego, CA, February
2014.
[126] Adrian Tang, Simha Sethumadhavan, and Salvatore
Stolfo. CLKSCREW: exposing the perils of security-
oblivious energy management. InProceedings of the
26thUSENIXSecuritySymposium ,Vancouver,Canada,
August 2017.
[127] Vincent Toubiana, Arvind Narayanan, Dan Boneh,
Helen Nissenbaum, and Solon Barocas. Adnostic:
Privacypreservingtargetedadvertising.In Proceedings
of the 17th Annual Network and Distributed System
SecuritySymposium(NDSS) ,SanDiego,CA,February–
March 2010.
[128] Stephen Tu, M. Frans Kaashoek, Samuel R. Madden,
and Nickolai Zeldovich. Processing analytical queries
over encrypted data. InProceedings of the 24th ACM
Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP),
Farmington, PA, November 2013.
[129] Jo Van Bulck, Marina Minkin, Ofir Weisse, Daniel
Genkin, Baris Kasikci, Frank Piessens, Mark Silber-
stein, Thomas F Wenisch, Yuval Yarom, and Raoul
Strackx. Foreshadow: Extracting the keys to the Intel
SGXkingdomwithtransientout-of-orderexecution. In
Proceedings of the 27th USENIX Security Symposium,
Baltimore, MD, August 2018.
[130] Jo Van Bulck, Daniel Moghimi, Michael Schwarz,
Moritz Lipp, Marina Minkin, Daniel Genkin, Yarom
Yuval, Berk Sunar, Daniel Gruss, and Frank Piessens.
LVI: Hĳacking Transient Execution through Microar-
chitecturalLoadValueInjection. In Proceedingsofthe
41st IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, San
Francisco, CA, May 2020.
[131] Stephan Van Schaik, Alyssa Milburn, Sebastian Öster-
lund, Pietro Frigo, Giorgi Maisuradze, Kaveh Razavi,
Herbert Bos, and Cristiano Giuffrida. RIDL: Rogue
in-flight data load. InProceedings of the 40th IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy, San Francisco,
CA, May 2019.
[132] Stephan van Schaik, Marina Minkin, Andrew Kwong,
Daniel Genkin, and Yuval Yarom. CacheOut: Leaking

dataonIntelCPUsviacacheevictions. In Proceedings
of the 42nd IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy,
Virtual conference, May 2021.
[133] Frank Wang, Catherine Yun, Shafi Goldwasser, Vinod
Vaikuntanathan, and Matei Zaharia. Splinter: Practical
private queries on public data. InProceedings of the
14thUSENIXSymposiumonNetworkedSystemsDesign
and Implementation (NSDI), pages 299–313, Boston,
MA, March 2017.
[134] Xapian. Xapian. https://xapian.org/.
[135] Peilin Yang, Hui Fang, and Jimmy Lin. Anserini:
Enabling the use of Lucene for information retrieval
research. In Proceedings of the 40th International
ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development
in Information Retrieval (SIGIR), pages 1253–1256,
Tokyo, Japan, August 2017.
[136] Shaozhi Ye, Felix Wu, Raju Pandey, and Hao Chen.
Noise injection for search privacy protection. InPro-
ceedingsofthe2009InternationalConferenceonCom-
putational Science and Engineering, August 2009.
[137] MingxunZhou,AndrewPark,ElaineShi,andWenting
Zheng. Piano: Extremely simple, single-server PIR
with sublinear server computation.Cryptology ePrint
Archive, 2023.
[138] Jeffrey Zhu. Bing delivers its largest improvement
in search experience using Azure GPUs, 2019.
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/bing-
delivers-its-largest-improvement-in-search-
experience-using-azure-gpus/.
[139] Martin Zuber and Renaud Sirdey. Efficient homomor-
phic evaluation of𝑘-NN classifiers. InProceedings of
the 21st Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium,
pages 111–129, Virtual conference, July 2021.

The contents of the appendix have not been peer-reviewed.
A Detailsonlinearlyhomomorphicencryption
with preprocessing
Asdescribedin§6,Tiptoeimplementsboththerankingservice
(§4) and the URL service (§5) using a linearly homomorphic
encryption scheme that simultaneously has high throughput
and compact ciphertexts. At a high level, this scheme consists
of two “layers” of encryption:
1. First, the client encrypts its message using a high-
throughput linearly homomorphic encryption scheme that
supports preprocessing, under a fresh secret keys.
WeusetheencryptionschemefromSimplePIR[59],which
isbasedonthelearning-with-errorsassumption[115].This
encryption scheme achieves high throughput by letting the
server preprocess the linear function that it applies to the
ciphertext; however, it has relatively large ciphertexts after
homomorphic evaluation.
2. Then, the client encrypts the secret keys with a second
linearlyhomomorphicencryptionschemethathascompact
ciphertexts, again under a fresh secret key.
We use standard linearly homomorphic encryption from
ring learning-with-errors [77].
A.1 Syntax
Formally, a linearly homomorphic encryption scheme with
preprocessing is parameterized by dimensionsℓ,𝑚 ∈ N,
plaintextmodulus 𝑝∈ N,andkeyspace K.Themessagespace
is Z𝑚
𝑝. The scheme then consists of the following algorithms,
which all take some public parameters as an implicit input:
Enc(sk,v)→ 𝑐v. Given a secret key𝑘∈ K and a message
vector v∈ Z𝑚
𝑝, output a ciphertext𝑐v that encrypts the
message.
Preproc(M)→ hintM. Preprocess a linear function, repre-
sented as a matrixM∈ Zℓ×𝑚
𝑝 , and output a data structure
used for applyingM to encrypted vectors.
Apply(M, hintM,𝑐 v)→ 𝑐Mv. Given a linear function repre-
sented as a matrixM∈ Zℓ×𝑚
𝑝 , a preprocessed hinthintM
for M, and a ciphertext𝑐v encrypting a message vector
v∈ Z𝑚
𝑝, output a ciphertext𝑐Mv encrypting the result of
the matrix-vector productM·v∈ Zℓ
𝑝.
Dec(sk,𝑐 Mv)→ v.Givenasecretkey sk∈ Kandaciphertext
𝑐Mvencryptingthematrix-vectorproduct M·v∈ Zℓ
𝑝,output
the decrypted productM·v.
The correctness requirement is standard: encrypting a mes-
sage vector, applying a matrix to it under encryption, and
decrypting the resulting ciphertext yields the original mes-
sage with the same sequence of operations applied, except
with some small failure probability. Formally, we say that
the scheme has correctness error𝛿 if, for all message vectors
v∈ Z𝑚
𝑝 and all linear functionsM∈ Zℓ×𝑚
𝑝 , the following
probability is at least1−𝛿:
Pr

(M·v) = Dec(sk,𝑐 Mv) :
sk←
R
K
𝑐v← Enc(sk,v)
hintM← Preproc(M)
𝑐Mv← Apply(M, hintM,v)

.
We also demand that this encryption scheme satisfy the
standard notion of semantic security [52]. That is, for
all v0,v1 ∈ Z𝑚
𝑝, and for sk ←
R
K, the following prob-
ability distributions are computationally indistinguishable:
{Enc(sk,v0)}≈ 𝑐{Enc(sk,v1)}.
A.2 Construction
Our construction is a modification of the SimplePIR linearly
homomorphic encryption scheme with preprocessing [59],
which is based on Regev encryption [115].
In that scheme, ifM∈ Zℓ×𝑚
𝑝 is the linear function that we
wish to apply to encrypted vectors:
• The preprocessing algorithm outputs a “hint” matrixH∈
Zℓ×𝑛
𝑞 , on security parameter𝑛 ≈ 2048 and ciphertext
modulus𝑞. The hint matrix depends on the linear function
M.
• The “apply” algorithm outputs a vectorc∈ Zℓ
𝑞.
• Thedecryptionalgorithm,onhintmatrix H∈ Zℓ×𝑛
𝑞 ,secret
keys∈ Z𝑛
𝑞, and ciphertextc∈ Zℓ
𝑞 computes 𝑓(H·s−c),
where 𝑓 is a non-linear function.
A limitation of the SimplePIR encryption scheme is that the
decryptor must somehow obtain the large hint matrixH. In
Tiptoe, the hint matrixHdepends on the search engine index
which means that: (1)Hchanges every time the search index
changes and (2)His very large—a gigabyte or more.
To avoid the decryptor having to obtain the hint matrixH,
we tweak the SimplePIR encryption scheme to allow the
decryptor to “outsource” much of the work of decryption to
the evaluator. To do so, we make use of a second linearly ho-
momorphic encryption scheme(Enc2, Apply2, Dec2) whose
plaintext space isZ𝑛
𝑞. We call this second scheme the “outer”
encryption scheme. (Here𝑛 is the SimplePIR security param-
eter, i.e., the dimension of the SimplePIR decryption key.)
That is, the encryption schemeEnc2 encrypts vectors inZ𝑞
and allows adding vectors under encryption, and also scaling
an encrypted vector component-wise by a vector of constants.
We augment the SimplePIR encryption-scheme routines
(Enc, Preproc, Apply, Dec) as follows:
• Keygeneration.Theaugmentedencryptionschemechooses
a fresh random secret keysk2 for the outer encryption
scheme Enc2, in addition to the SimplePIR secret keys.
• Enc(sk,m): The augmented encryption scheme takes as
inputasecretkey sk =(s, sk2),consistingoftheSimplePIR
secret keys and a keysk2 for the outer encryption scheme
Enc2.

Let(𝑠1,...,𝑠 𝑛) = s∈ Z𝑛
𝑞 be the components of the Sim-
plePIR secret key. In addition to outputting the SimplePIR
ciphertextc, the augmented encryption routine outputs𝑛
ciphertexts(z1,..., z𝑛), where for all𝑖∈[ 𝑛],z𝑖 is an en-
cryptionof 𝑛copiesofthe 𝑖thcomponentoftheSimplePIR
secret keys:
z𝑖← Enc2(sk,[𝑠𝑖 𝑠𝑖 𝑠𝑖··· 𝑠𝑖 𝑠𝑖]).
The z𝑖 values become part of the augmented ciphertext.
• Apply(M, hintM,𝑐 v): TheApply algorithm runs the Sim-
plePIR “apply” algorithm on the matrixM and the Sim-
plePIR component of the ciphertext𝑐v. The result is a
vectorc∈ Zℓ
𝑞.
Theaugmented Applyalgorithmthenrunsthelinearpartof
the SimplePIR decryption operation under encryption. In
particular, the hint matrixhintM has dimensionℓ×𝑛. The
applyalgorithmconsiderseachchunkof 𝑛rowsH∈ Z𝑛×𝑛
𝑞
at a time.
For each chunk, using the vectors(z1,..., z𝑛)—which en-
crypt the SimplePIR secret keys—the augmented “apply”
algorithm computesH·s−c∈ Z𝑛
𝑞 under the outer encryp-
tionscheme Enc2.Thisstepusesthelinearhomomorphism
of the underlying encryption schemeEnc2.
The augmented apply algorithm then returns the resulting
Enc2 ciphertextsas 𝑐M·v.Thereare ⌈ℓ/𝑛⌉ suchciphertexts.
• Dec(sk,𝑐 M·v).Theaugmenteddecryptionschemeusesthe
secret keysk2 for the outer encryption scheme to decrypt
eachofthe ⌈ℓ/𝑛⌉ outerciphertexts.Thedecryptionroutine
then applies the non-linear function𝑓 (from SimplePIR
decryption) to each component of the resulting plaintexts.
We now sketch the properties that this augmented encryp-
tion scheme provides:
Correctness.Follows by construction. The output of the de-
cryption routine is exactly the output of the SimplePIR de-
cryption routine.
Security. The augmented ciphertexts consist of two sets of
ciphertexts, encrypted under independent keys. Semantic se-
curitythusfollowsdirectlyfromthesecurityoftheunderlying
encryption schemes.
Ciphertext size.We instantiate the inner encryption scheme
with SimplePIR, which encrypts a dimension-𝑚 plaintext
vector to a dimension-𝑚 ciphertext vector, using a secret key
of dimension𝑛. We instantiate the outer encryption scheme
withring-LWE-basedencryption,whichencryptsadimension-
𝑛plaintextvectortoadimension- 𝑂(𝑛)ciphertextvector.Since
the augmented ciphertext consists of𝑛 ring-LWE ciphertexts
(encrypting each entry of the SimplePIR secret key), plus one
SimplePIR ciphertext, the total ciphertext length is roughly
𝑚+𝑛2. In our setting,𝑛≪𝑚.
After homomorphic evaluation, the ciphertext consists of
⌈ℓ/𝑛⌉ ring-LWEciphertexts,eachofdimension 𝑛.Sothetotal
evaluated ciphertext size is roughlyℓ.
Computationalcost. TheSimplePIR Applyoperationrequires
roughlyℓ·𝑚 ring operations, where the matrixM applied
to encrypted vectors has dimensionℓ×𝑚. The augmented
scheme requires an additionalℓ·𝑛 operations to perform the
decryption under encryption. The total computational cost
of Apply is then roughlyℓ·( 𝑚+𝑛). Since𝑚≫ 𝑛 in our
application, the computational cost roughly matches that of
SimplePIR.
A.3 Optimizations
Finally, we apply the following optimizations to reduce the
computation and communication costs of our encryption
scheme:
Reducing latency with tokens.We have the client build
and send its “outer” ciphertexts(z1,..., z𝑛) to the server
ahead of time, since they do not depend on the message
being encrypted. Then, the server computesH·s under the
outer encryption schemeEnc2 ahead of time, and returns it to
the user. With this optimization, the client only has to send
its original SimplePIR ciphertext,𝑐v, to the server, and the
server only has to compute and respond with the output of the
SimplePIR Apply algorithm, c, on the latency-critical path.
We call the server’s offline reponse, which encryptsH·s, a
query “token”.
Usingthesamesecretkeyforbothservices. Weadditionally
observe that we can use the same encryption(z1,..., z𝑛)
(which is the encryption of a Regev secret vectors under a
second encryption schemeEnc2) for both the ranking service
and the URL service, since each service uses independent
public parameters and this upload does not depend on the
message being encrypted. This optimization saves a factor
of 2× in the per-query upload that occurs ahead of time;
concretely, this saves roughly 30 MiB.
Dropping the lowest-order bits of the hint matrix.We
observe that the non-linear part of the SimplePIR decryption
routine, 𝑓,performsa roundingstep.Becauseofthisrounding,
the lowest-order bits of each entry of the hint matrixHdo not
actually affect the client’s output—they are always rounded
away.So,wehavetheserverdropthelowest-orderbitsofeach
entry ofH, since the server does not need to compute over
them. This optimization saves a factor of roughly2× in the
per-query, token generation work (on the server) and a factor
of 2× in the server-to-client token download.
B Details on private nearest-neighbor protocol
B.1 Fixed-precision embedding representation
To use the above linearly homomorphic encryption scheme
for embedding-based search, Tiptoe maps the floating-point
embedding values into the message spaceZ𝑝.
To do so, Tiptoe first represents each embedding value
using𝑏 bits of precision with a sign. That is, Tiptoe repre-
sents each real number𝑥∈[− 1, 1]∈ R as theZ𝑝 element

Figure 10: Tiptoe’s private nearest-neighbor protocol.The
protocol is parameterized by: a vector dimension𝑑∈ N, a
number of vectors𝑁∈ N, a number of clusters𝐶∈ N, and a
linearly-homomorphic encryption schemeEnc with plaintext
modulus𝑝 (defined in Appendix A).
Server’s input:A matrixMof𝑁 row vectors inZ𝑑𝑝, arranged
into𝐶 columns, one per cluster, and𝑁/𝐶 rows. (Assume that
𝑁/𝐶 is an integer.)
Client’s input:A vectorq∈ Z𝑑𝑝 and an index𝑖∗∈{ 1,...,𝐶 }.
Client’s output:The inner product of its vectorqwith each of
the𝑁/𝐶 vectors in column𝑖∗ of the server’s matrixM.
For simplicity, throughout the rest of our description of the
protocol, we say that the matrixM has dimension𝑁/𝐶 by𝑑𝐶.
Per-query protocol.Run when the client issues a new query.
1. Client query preparation.
• The client builds a vector˜q∈ Z𝑑𝐶𝑝 , that is zero everywhere,
except that it contains the client’s query vectorq∈ Z𝑑𝑝 in
place of the𝑖∗th size-𝑑 block of zeros.
• The client encrypts˜q using the linearly homomorphic en-
cryption scheme with a fresh secret key. The client sends
the resulting ciphertextEnc(˜q) to the server.
2. Server answer.The server receives the ciphertextEnc(˜q)
and applies the matrixMto it to obtainEnc(M· ˜q), which the
server returns to the client.
3.Clientreconstruction. Theclientreceives Enc(M·˜q)fromthe
serveranddecryptsit.Finally,theclientoutputs M· ˜q∈ Z𝑁/𝐶.
⌊
𝑥· 2𝑏⌉
. (Our text search embedding function occasionally
generates values outside of[−1, 1], and we simply clip these
to fall within[−1, 1] with no significant impact to search
quality.) Second, we associate the elements ofZ𝑝 with the
set{−𝑝
2,..., −1, 0, 1,..., 𝑝
2}. We can then add and multiply
numbers in their Z𝑝 representation as long as the maxi-
mum possible value never grows larger than𝑝/2 or smaller
than−𝑝/2. To compute inner products of𝑑-dimensional
vectors under encryption, without “wrapping around” the
modulus, we need𝑝/2> 𝑑·( 2𝑏)2.
B.2 Private nearest-neighbor search protocol
We give a formal description of Tiptoe’s private nearest-
neighbor search protocol in Figure 10.
C Parameters for cryptographic protocols
We choose parameters to achieve 128-bit security and correct-
ness error roughly2−40.
Learning-with-errors parameters.For the portion of our
encryption scheme based on LWE, we use the following
parameters for Regev-style secret-key encryption [115]:
• We take the ciphertext modulus to be𝑞 = 264, so that we
can represent ciphertexts as unsigned 64-bit integers in
hardware.
• We set the secret dimension,𝑛, to be 2048. We sample
errorsfromthediscreteGaussiandistributionwithstandard
deviation𝜎 = 81 920, and sample the secret key from the
ternary distribution modulo𝑞. This parameter choice guar-
antees 128-bit security for encrypted vectors of dimension
≤ 227 [6].
• Finally, we select a plaintext modulus𝑝 such that (a) our
batch inner-product computation does not “wrap-around”
modulo𝑝, and (b) our encryption scheme supports suffi-
ciently many homomorphic operations for the given data
set size. Concretely:
– For text search, we use plaintext modulus𝑝 = 217, as
this avoids overflow in the inner-product computation
with embeddings of dimension𝑑 = 192 consisting of
4-bit signed integers. This parameter setting in turn
supportsupto 221 homomorphicadditionswithroughly
2−40 correctness-failure probability. With𝑑 = 192, this
allows Tiptoe to scale to up to𝐶≈ 10K clusters.
– For image search, we use plaintext modulus𝑝 = 215, as
this avoids overflow in the inner-product computation
with normalized embeddings of dimension𝑑 = 384
consisting of 4-bit signed integers. To achieve roughly
2−40 correctness-failure probability, the scheme can
now support up to227 homomorphic additions. With
𝑑 = 384, this allows Tiptoe to scale to up to𝐶≈ 350K
clusters.
For our private-information-retrieval scheme (§5), we take
the ciphertext modulus to be𝑞 = 232 (as in the original
SimplePIR). We set the secret dimension to be𝑛 = 1 408. We
use discrete Gaussian errors with standard deviation𝜎 = 6.4
and ternary secrets to achieve 128-bit security for encrypted
vectors up to dimension220 [6].
Ring learning-with-errors parameters. For the portion
of our encryption scheme based on RLWE, we use BFV
encryption [43] and we take:
• the security parameter,𝑛, to be2 048.
• the plaintext modulus,𝑝, to be65 537.
• the ciphertext modulus,𝑞, to be a 38-bit prime.
Database dimensions.We set the dimensions of the matrix
M in Figures 3 and 10 to ensure that the cost of the first
“layer” of homomorphic encryption (which we implement
withSimplePIR)dominatesthehomomorphicevaluationcost.
Similarly, in the URL retrieval step, we “unbalance” the
dimensions of the database over which we run SimplePIR.
This parameter choice effectively sets the height of the matrix
M (or the SimplePIR database), which must be roughly10×
as wide as it is tall. For text search, this implies that Tiptoe
has clusters of at most 50K documents and that batches of
compressed URLs do not exceed 40 KiB.

Scalingtolargerdatabasesizes. In§8.5,weestimateTiptoe’s
performance scalingto largerdatabase sizes.Todo so,we use
the LWE parameters given in Tables 11 and 12. We use the
same RLWE parameters as previously, since the LWE lattice
dimension always remains at most 2048.
D Security analysis
Syntax. A private-search schemewith query space𝑄 ⊆
{0, 1}∗ is a two-party interactive protocol that takes place
between a clientC and a serverS, where:
• the clientC takes as input a query string𝑞∈𝑄, and
• the serverS takes as input a dataset𝐷∈{ 0, 1}∗.
For an interactive algorithmS∗ and a query string𝑞∈𝑄, let
ViewS∗[C(𝑞)] denote S∗’s view of its interaction withC on
query input𝑞.
Definition D.1 (Query privacy, restated). We say that a
private-search scheme(C, S) achievesquery privacyif, for
all efficient adversariesS∗, and all query strings𝑞0,𝑞 1∈𝑄,
the following probability distributions are computationally
indistinguishable in the implicit security parameter:
{ViewS∗[C(𝑞0)]}
𝑐
≈{ ViewS∗[C(𝑞1)]}
Remark D.2(Correctness). For typical cryptographic primi-
tives, we define both correctness and security. Since it is not
clear how to formally define correctness of an embedding-
based search, we rely on our empirical evaluation to show
correctness.Thesecuritypropertiesofourschemeholdinthe
precise formal sense of Definition D.1
We now prove that Tiptoe satisfies query privacy, in the
sense of Definition D.1. The Tiptoe client sends exactly two
messages during an execution of the search protocol:
1. During its interaction with the ranking service, the client
sends one ciphertext, encrypted using the linearly homo-
morphic encryption scheme of §6.
2. During its interaction with the URL service, the client
sends one encrypted query using the SimplePIR private-
information-retrieval scheme [59], optimized as in §6.
Both messages have fixed length and the client sends both of
these messages irrespective of the output of the server.
To complete the proof, we consider the following hybrid
distributions:
• 𝐻0:Theserver S∗’sviewintherealinteractionwith C(𝑞0).
This isViewS∗[C(𝑞0)], by definition.
• 𝐻1:Thesameas 𝐻0 withtheclient’sfirstmessagereplaced
with the first message that clientC(𝑞1) would send.
• 𝐻2: The same as𝐻1 with the client’s second message
replaced with the second message that clientC(𝑞1) would
send. This is exactlyViewS∗[C(𝑞1)], by definition.
Let Abe any efficient algorithm and let𝑞0,𝑞 1∈𝑄 be any
pair of queries. For𝑖∈{ 0, 1, 2}, let𝑊𝑖 be the event thatA
outputs 1 when fed a sample from distribution𝐻𝑖, defined
with respect to queries𝑞0 and 𝑞1. Then, the advantage of
A at distinguishing ViewS∗[C(𝑞0)] from ViewS∗[C(𝑞1)] is
|Pr[𝑊0]− Pr[𝑊2]|. We now know that:
• |Pr[𝑊0]− Pr[𝑊1]| is negligible in the (implicit) security
parameter, by security of the linearly homomorphic en-
cryption scheme under the ring learning-with-errors as-
sumption.
• |Pr[𝑊1]− Pr[𝑊2]| is negligible in the (implicit) secu-
rity parameter, by security of the underlying private-
information-retrieval scheme under the ring learning-with-
errors assumption.
Therefore|Pr[𝑊0]− Pr[𝑊2]| is negligible, and we are done.

Upload dim.𝑚: 213 214 215 216 217 218 219 220 221 222 223 224
Plaintext mod.𝑝: 991 833 701 589 495 416 350 294 887 745 627 527
Lattice dim.𝑛: 1408 1408 1408 1408 1408 1408 1408 1408 1608 1608 1608 1608
Error dev.𝜎: 6.4 6.4 6.4 6.4 6.4 6.4 6.4 6.4 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
Table 11: Parameters for ciphertext modulus𝑞 = 232 (used for URL retrieval step)
Upload dim.𝑚: 213 214 215 216 217 218 219 220 221 222 223 224
Plaintext mod.𝑝: 219 218 218 218 218 217 217 217 217 219 218 218
Lattice dim.𝑛: 2048 2048 2048 2048 2048 2048 2048 2048 2048 2048 2048 2048
Error dev.𝜎: 81920 81920 81920 81920 81920 81920 81920 81920 81920 4096 4096 4096
Table 12: Parameters for ciphertext modulus𝑞 = 264 (used for ranking step)
E Sample queries
E.1 Text search
We run queries from the MS MARCO document rank-
ing dev set over the documents in the text Common
Crawl C4 data set from 2019. We include the output of
all queries here: https://anonymfile.com/XPyAA/tiptoe-
msmarcoqueries.txt. We conservatively redact URLs that
might contain offensive language. Below we show the output
of 20 randomly sampled queries.
Q: what test are relvant for heart screenings
1. https://newyorkcardiac.com/best-heart-
palpitations-cardiac-doctor-nyc
2. http://cardiocppa.com/faq/?s=
3. https://bookinghawk.com/events/heartcare-clinic/
138/screening-at-mullingar-dental-monday-8th/
689
4. https://www.healthline.com/health/holter-
monitor-24h
5. http://www.shoshonehealth.com/departments/
respiratory-therapy-outpatient-services/
6. http://atlanticcardiologyonline.com/holter-
monitor/
7. https://cascadecardiology.com/our-services/
holter-monitor/
8. https://www.nhfriedbergfamilymedicine.org/our-
services/tests-and-procedures/cardiac-event-
monitors.aspx
9. http://a-fib.com/treatments-for-atrial-
fibrillation/diagnostic-tests-2/
10. https://www.faythclinic.com/24hours-holter-
study/
Q: what is the ige antibody
1. https://www.empr.com/home/news/new-sc-inj-for-
primary-immunodeficiency-approved/
2. http://centralparknaturopathic.com/allergy-
testing-and-treatment/
3. https://www.empr.com/home/news/drug-news/
hyqvia-launched-for-primary-immunodeficiency-
treatment/
4. http://www.rapidtest.com/index.php?i=Toxo-IgM-
ELISA-kit&id=103&cat=16
5. https://www.bio-rad-antibodies.com/protocol-ada-
elisa-anti-adalimumab-ige-antibody.html
6. https://spectrumhealth.testcatalog.org/show/
LAB1230099-1
7. http://www.diazyme.com/a-fetoprotein-afp-assay
8. https://www.hyqvia.com/about/how-hyqvia-works
9. https://www.viracor-eurofins.com/test-menu/
203529p-mold-precipitin-panel-iii/
10. https://www.abcam.com/goat-mouse-igg-hl-alexa-
fluor-750-ab175740.html
Q: foodborne trematodiases symptoms
1. https://bowenmedicalibrary.wordpress.com/2017/
04/04/foodborne-trematodiases/
2. http://daddyspestsolutions.com/2016/10/31/what-
kind-of-flies-transmit-diseases-to-humans/
3. https://healthsky.net/health-news/foods-that-
are-high-risk-of-causing-cysticercosis.html
4. https://westsidedognanny.com/category/illness/
5. https://m.petmd.com/reptile/conditions/skin/
c_rp_skin_shell_infections
6. http://www.worldhealthinfo.net/2016/10/beware-
here-are-10-horrifying-signs.html
7. https://totalrisksa.co.za/a-list-of-diseases-
you-should-be-aware-of-excursion
8. https://activities.timeout.com/en-us/tel-
\protect\penalty\z@aviv-l487/jerusalem-
business-class-tour-full-day-from-
tel-aviv-t20352/?referrer _view_id=
49ed3cf5b860e66f003a4cb4b9590004&referrer_view_position=
10
9. https://www.petra-trip.com/product/jewish-
jerusalem-3-days

10. http://levonatravel.com/jerusalem-dead-sea/
11. https://kenes-tours.com/tour/jerusalem-dead-
sea/
12. http://www.touryourway.com/safed-tour.html
13. https://www.cunard.com/en-us/shore-excursions/
ASH/glorious-jerusalem
Q: how long has earth been habitable
1. https://www.cnet.com/news/we-are-about-to-prove-
that-we-are-not-alone-in-the-universe/
2. http://www.modernmormonmen.com/2014/01/guest-
post-warnings-from-outer-space.html
3. https://gizmodo.com/why-that-100m-alien-
listening-project-may-be-a-waste-o-1719910237
4. https://uppyalf.wordpress.com/category/stuffed/
5. http://www.rationaloptimist.com/blog/did-life-
arrive-on-earth-as-microbes/
6. https://sciencesprings.wordpress.com/tag/are-we-
alone/
7. https://mattpomroy.com/2014/12/01/whats-the-
great-filter/
8. https://www.sevendaysvt.com/vermont/counting-
the-hours/Content?oid=2131252
9. https://blog.nationalgeographic.org/2010/12/29/
land-on-goldilocks-planet-for-sale-on-ebay/
10. https://www.astronomytrek.com/human-broadcasts-
have-reached-around-8500-stars/
Q: is the judicial branch of the un.
1. https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/justice
2. https://www.un.org/ruleoflaw/thematic-
areas/access-to-justice-and-rule-of-law-
institutions/
3. https://globalanticorruptionblog.com/2015/07/09/
guest-post-the-united-nations-post-conflict-
societies-and-whistleblower-protection-
understanding-the-connections/
4. https://police.un.org/en/un-police-reform
5. https://www.unric.org/en/peacekeeping/27026-
this-yearas-theme-upholding-the-rule-of-law
6. https://fba.se/sa-arbetar-vi/forskning/
publikationer/review-of-the-global-focal-point-
for-police-justice-and-corrections/
7. https://police.un.org/en/serious-and-organized-
crime
8. http://eprints.nottingham.ac.uk/13282/
9. https://clintonwhitehouse5.archives.gov/
textonly/library/hot_releases/
August_282000_1.html
10. https://cic.nyu.edu/publications/Review-of-the-
Global-Focal-Point-for-Police-Justice-and-
Corrections
Q: what is the most important solid dissolved in
ocean water?
1. https://poseidonsweb.com/twenty-things-water/
2. https://www.seaturtlecamp.com/the-properties-of-
seawater/
3. http://freebackgroundcheck.info/linkedkeys/
sea.new
4. https://allinonehighschool.com/ocean-water/
5. http://fishcreeksalmon.org/About-Water.htm
6. https://geo.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Book%
3A_Physical_Geography_(Lenkeit-Meezan)/10%
3A_The_River_and_the_Sea/10.6%3A_The_Oceans
7. https://www.cencoos.org/data/parameters/oxygen
8. https://ultimate-animals.com/what-do-we-really-
know-about-the-ocean/
9. https://www.windows2universe.org/earth/Water/
ocean_chemistry.html&edu=elem
10. http://marinebio.net/marinescience/02ocean/
swcomposition.htm
Q: what is the lcd math
1. http://www.broadband.se/en/Products/Graphic-
Displays.htm
2. https://www.dnatechindia.com/jhd-402-40-2-green-
lcd-display.html
3. https://www.dnatechindia.com/buy-led-oled-
glcd-alpha-numeric-lcd-display-india/
alphanumeric-display-india/jhd-202-20-2-blue-
lcd-display.html
4. https://www.code-electrical.com/calculators.html
5. https://www.dnatechindia.com/jhd-162-16-2-green-
jumbo-lcd-display.html
6. http://www.8051projects.net/tags/nokia-3310-lcd-
pcb-layout
7. https://www.okaya.com/display-products/
8. https://makerstorage.com/index.php?id_product=
18&controller=product
9. https://gr.boschsecurity.com/el/
products_9/intrusionalarmsystems_13/
conettixcommunications_13/
conettixreceivergateway_11/
conettixd6100communicatio_5/
conettixd6100communicatio_5_23715
10. https://techtonics.in/product/128x64-graphic-
lcd-display-with-blue-backlight/
Q: what’s the establishment clause
1. https://scholarship.law.missouri.edu/facpubs/
162/
2. https://www.petropedia.com/definition/8962/

privileges-and-immunities-clause
3. https://www.examrace.com/Study-Material/
Political-Science/NCERT-Lectures/NCERT-Class-
8-Political-Science-Chapter-1-YouTube-Lecture-
Handouts.html
4. http://tandemproject.com/part2/article6/art6.htm
5. http://fathersunite.org/Constitution/10%20Most%
20Liberating%20Concepts%20of%20Constitutional%
20Law.html
6. https://www.countable.us/bills/sjres13-111
7. https://navneetspeaks.wordpress.com/2016/04/
8. https://mammat.us/2018/11/15/divine-rights/
9. http://www.thearda.com/internationalData/
countries/Country_246_8.asp
10. https://www.esquire.com/news-politics/politics/
a20517/evening-jemmy-3-18-14/
Q: the meaning of stinchcombe
1. https://www.webster-dictionary.org/definition/
scab
2. http://www.bibliomania.com/2/3/257/1205/23437/
2.html
3. https://ahdictionary.com/word/search.html?q=fret
4. https://www.wordunscrambler.net/word-meaning/
worm
5. https://1828.mshaffer.com/d/word/neck
6. https://webster-dictionary.org/definition/neck
7. http://www.rhymingnames.com/
firstname_40886_scottie.htm
8. https://www.niftyword.com/dictionary/chine/
9. http://www.bibliomania.com/2/3/257/1193/22100/
2.html
10. http://www.bibliomania.com/2/3/257/1211/24342/
1.html
Q: when and where does the glass castle take place
1. https://www.medievaltimes.com/about-medieval-
times/index.html
2. https://hardcoreitalians.blog/2018/01/04/the-
scaliger-sinking-castle-in-lake-garda-italy/
3. http://www.sobt.co.uk/2019/03/rothesay-
castle.html
4. https://www.bona.com/Bona-Professional/
References/Cultural/Butron-Castle-Spain/
5. http://www.nightsinthepast.com/star-castle-
hotel.html
6. https://www.ginosi.com/location/castelldefels-
-catalonia/castillo-de-castelldefels
7. https://www.airvuz.com/photo/The-forgotten-
fortless?id=5b8c40a7f4e80e673fa76bf0
8. http://finditinscotland.com/Scottish-Heartbeat-
The-Mag/Rothesay-Castle.html
9. https://www.andaluciaexplorer.com/2013/01/
monday-morning-photo-castillo-colomares.html
10. http://www.britainirelandcastles.com/Scotland/
Fife/St-Andrews-Castle.html
Q: what is coffee flour
1. https://www.caffeineinformer.com/caffeine-
content/coffee-flour
2. https://culinarycultureconnections.com/
collections/organic-agroforestry-coffee/
products/3-bags-of-cafe-apui
3. http://en.henri.cz/eshop/cafe-8/
4. https://lagomcoffee.com/pages/the-bean
5. https://whizolosophy.com/category/human-nature/
article-essay/coffee-love
6. http://kokilacoffee.com/
7. http://www.sharegoodstuffs.com/2012/03/15-
things-worth-knowing-about-coffee.html
8. https://www.londondrugs.com/lavazza/
9. http://www.neelbeverages.in/instant-coffee.html
10. https://www.kitanda.com/coffee
Q: largest snail in the world
1. http://www.shewsbury.com/2010/06/snail.html
2. https://www.mnn.com/earth-matters/animals/
photos/12-of-the-most-interesting-snails-in-
the-world/giant-african-snail
3. http://animalstime.com/pond-snail-facts/
4. https://seashellsbymillhill.com/2010/10/19/the-
mighty-florida-horse-conch/
5. https://aquaticarts.com/pages/orange-giant-
sulawesi-snail-care-guide
6. http://www.dalerogersammonite.com/collections/
marine-life/product/turittille/
7. https://www.lighttheearth.com/blog/gastropods
8. http://wrightsvillebeachscenictours.com/eco-
guides/carolina-shelling/north-carolina-
shelling-guide-nutmeg-2/
9. https://www.maldiver.net/giant-clam.html
10. https://www.dorsetwildlifetrust.org.uk/wildlife-
explorer/marine/sea-snails-and-sea-slugs/whelk
Q: disease caused by blood worms
1. https://www.factmonster.com/encyclopedia/
medicine/diseases/pathology/schistosomiasis
2. https://encyclopedia2.thefreedictionary.com/
schistosomiasis
3. https://aho.org/programmes/schistosomiasis-
programme/
4. https://www.eliminateschisto.org/fr/sur/

schistosomiasis
5. https://hyperleap.com/topic/
List_of_parasites_of_humans
6. https://www.frontiersin.org/research-topics/
7476/schistosomiasis-host-parasite-interactions
7. https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/6743224/parasitic-
worm-schistosomiasis-lays-eggs-human-organs-
europe/
8. https://www.rxlist.com/script/main/
art.asp?articlekey=5416
9. https://www.climate-policy-watcher.org/lake-
ecosystems/glossary-huw.html
10. https://theconversation.com/parasitic-flatworms-
affect-millions-in-developing-countries-but-
new-research-offers-hope-98780
Q: is home improvement interest deductible
1. https://armsairsoft.com/home-and-family/
2. https://armsairsoft.com/tips-for-home-
enhancement-house-equity-loan-funding/
3. http://homeimprovementtax.com/clearing-up-the-
confusion-surrounding-home-improvement-taxes/
4. https://paintmyrun.com/tips-for-house-
improvement-house-equity-loan-financing/
5. https://umasoudana.com/tips-for-home-
enhancement-house-equity-loan-financing/
6. http://www.dragonesdelsur.org/personal-a-
vehicle-without-placing-collateral.html
7. https://umasoudana.com/2019/04/03/
8. https://naadagam.com/tips-for-home-enhancement-
house-equity-loan-financing/
9. https://affiloguide.com/tips-for-home-
enhancement-house-equity-loan-funding/
10. http://www.philipmclean-architect.com/home-
enchancment-loan-or-personal-loan.html
Q: is burning sage evil
1. http://familiarterritory.us/2019/03/28/protect-
your-home-or-workspace/
2. https://www.west.coach/blog/saturday-grooves-
five-ways-to-stay-zen-when-surrounded-by-toxic-
energy
3. https://gorjana.com/pages/good-vibes-smudge-kit
4. https://www.housebeautiful.com/lifestyle/g3864/
oddest-moving-traditions/?thumbnails =
5. https://talesofapsychicjunkie.com/2018/07/14/
sage-why-you-cant-live-without-it/
6. https://www.revguimo.com/2017/12/ritual-
cleansing.html
7. http://wio.life/psychology/self-development/get-
negative-energy-out-of-your-home-with-these-4-
tricks
8. http://www.queentourmaline.com/slaydragons/
9. https://www.nadersgallery.com/2017/10/04/
timeless-ancient-techniques-for-giving-your-
home-good-energy/
10. https://www.inkedgoddesscreations.com/products/
mini-dragons-blood-sage-wand-for-cleansing-and-
power
Q: what does otg in a usb stands for
1. http://adapt-ip.com/products.html
2. https://www.techopedia.com/definition/10096/
wireless-universal-serial-bus-wireless-usb-
wusb
3. https://www.efun.top/ot-75002-lightning-otg-
network-adapter.html
4. http://gadgetsin.com/the-usb-3-0-hub-with-otg-
adapter.htm
5. http://www.spoutpals.com/6ft-readyplug-
usb-cable-for-lg-b470-phone-for-at-and-t-
data-computer-sync-charging-cable-6-feet-
sgfjrkcxq.html
6. http://www.icron.com/products/oem/usb-extenders/
lan/usb-2-0-rg2301n/
7. https://community.wicommfi.com/usb-3-0-usb-3-0-
wireless-adapter-work/
8. https://www.computerlanguage.com/
results.php?definition=wireless%20USB
9. http://www.ciudadwireless.com/
network_ubdo-25t_802-11abgn_outdoor_w-
dual_antenna_integrated-p-9287.html
10. https://www.speedguide.net/routers/tenda-d301-
wireless-n300-adsl2-router-3156
Q: the meaning of haploid cell
1. https://www.britannica.com/science/haploid-phase
2. http://affixes.org/jk/karyo-.html
3. https://guillaumeantzenberger.com/chapter-6-
terms
4. https://www.palaeontologyonline.com/glossary/m/
meiosis/
5. http://webster-dictionary.net/definition/
chromatin
6. http://www.sliderbase.com/spitem-842-1.html
7. http://academic.pgcc.edu/~kroberts/Lecture/
Chapter%207/euchromosome.html
8. http://www.phschool.com/science/biology_place/
biocoach/meiosis/overview.html
9. https://www.askdifference.com/nucleus-vs-nuclei/
10. https://rwguild.com/collections/sculptures-
decorative-art/products/casey-zablocki-

sculpture4
Q: how long before eagles get feathers
1. https://llarnold.smugmug.com/Galleries/
Feathered-Friends/Eagle-banding-Ottawa-Refuge-6
2. https://www.asa2fly.com/EAA-Young-Eagles-
W45.aspx
3. https://www.worldbirdsanctuary.org/education-
programs/eagle-flights/
4. https://www.justplaneadventures.com/aviation-
camp/
5. https://www.eagleswingszipline.com/safety/
6. http://www.birdtlc.org/blogv3/2008/04/golden-
eagle-release.html
7. https://notch.com/news/news-archive/
8. https://eaa35.org/?q=content/young-eagles
9. http://fifecoastandcountrysidetrust.co.uk/
news_archive_2013/sea-eagles-breed-in-fife-
_254.html
10. http://eaa1230.com/index.html