One Server for the Price of Two:
Simple and Fast Single-Server Private Information Retrieval
Alexandra Henzinger
MIT
Matthew M. Hong
MIT
Henry Corrigan-Gibbs
MIT
Sarah Meiklejohn
Google
Vinod Vaikuntanathan
MIT
Abstract. We present SimplePIR, the fastest single-server
private information retrieval scheme known to date. Sim-
plePIR’ssecurityholdsunderthelearning-with-errorsassump-
tion.Toansweraclient’squery,theSimplePIRserverperforms
fewer than one 32-bit multiplication and one 32-bit addition
per database byte. SimplePIR achieves 10 GB/s/core server
throughput, which approaches the memory bandwidth of the
machine and the performance of the fastesttwo-serverprivate-
information-retrieval schemes (which require non-colluding
servers). SimplePIR has relatively large communication costs:
tomakequeriestoa1GBdatabase,theclientmustdownloada
121MB“hint”aboutthedatabasecontents;thereafter,theclient
may make an unbounded number of queries, each requiring
242 KB of communication. We present a second single-server
scheme, DoublePIR, that shrinks the hint to 16 MB at the
cost of slightly higher per-query communication (345 KB)
and slightly lower throughput (7.4 GB/s/core). Finally, we
apply our new private-information-retrieval schemes, together
with a novel data structure for approximate set membership,
to the task of private auditing in Certificate Transparency.
We achieve a strictly stronger notion of privacy than Google
Chrome’s current approach with modest communication over-
heads: 16 MB of download per month, along with 150 bytes
per TLS connection.
1 Introduction
In a private information retrieval (PIR) protocol [27,62], a
database server holds an array of𝑁 records. A client wants to
fetch record𝑖∈{ 1,...,𝑁 } from the server, without revealing
the index𝑖 that it desires to the server. PIR has applications
to systems for private database search [85,93], metadata-
hiding messaging [9,10], private media consumption [55],
credential breach reporting [66,82,91,94], private contact
discovery [60], privacy-friendly advertising [11,54,58,87],
and private blocklist lookups [61], among others.
Modern PIR schemes require surprisingly little commu-
nication: with a single database server and under modest
cryptographic assumptions [21,49,80], the total communica-
tion required to fetch a database record grows only polylog-
arithmically with the number of records,𝑁. Unfortunately,
This is the full version of a paper of the same title at USENIX Security 2023.
PIR schemes are computationally expensive: the server must
touch every bit of the database to answer even a single client
query [13], since otherwise the PIR scheme leaks information
about which database records the client isnot interested in.
(A number of recent PIR schemes preprocess the database
such that the server can answer a query in time sublinear
in𝑁, but all known approaches require either client-specific
preprocessing [30,31,61,88,97] or impractically large server
storage [13,17,22].) Thus, a hard limit on the throughput of
PIR schemes—that is, the ratio between the database size and
theservertimetoansweraquery—isthespeedwithwhichthe
PIR server can read the database from memory: roughly 12.4
GB/s/core on our machine [92].
In the standard setting, in which the client interacts with
a single database server, the performance of existing PIR
protocols is far from this theoretical limit: we measure that
the fastest prior single-server PIR schemes [76] achieve a
throughputof259MB/s/core,or 2%ofourmachine’smemory
bandwidth,onadatabaseofhundred-byterecords.Itispossible
topushtheperformanceupto1.3GB/s/corewhenthedatabase
records are hundreds of kilobytes long, though that parameter
settingisnotrelevantformanyPIRapplications,includingour
application to Certificate Transparency.
When the client can communicate with multiple non-
colluding database servers [27], there exist PIR schemes with
server-side throughput of up to 11.5 GB/s/core, or 93% of the
memory bandwidth (described in Table 1). However, these
multi-serverPIRschemesarecumbersometodeploy,sincethey
rely on multiple coordinating yet independent infrastructure
providers. In addition, their security is brittle, as it stems from
a non-collusion assumption rather than from cryptographic
hardness. Thus, existing PIR schemes suffer from either poor
performance—in the single-server setting—or undesirable
trust assumptions—in the multi-server case.
Inthispaper,wepresenttwonewsingle-serverPIRschemes
that exceed the throughput of all existing single-server PIR
protocols and approach the throughput of multi-server ones.
In addition, our schemes are relatively simple to explain and
easy to implement: our complete implementation of both
schemes, available at github.com/ahenzinger/simplepir,
requires roughly 1,400 lines of Go code, plus 200 lines of C,
and uses no external libraries.
More specifically, our first scheme, SimplePIR, achieves a
server throughput of 10 GB/s/core, or 81% of the memory
1

bandwidth,thoughitrequirestheclienttodownloadarelatively
large “hint” about the database contents before making its
queries. On a database of𝑁 bytes, the hint has size roughly
4
√
𝑁 KB. The hint is not client-specific, and a client can reuse
the hint over many queries, so the amortized communication
cost per query can be small. Our second scheme, DoublePIR,
achievesslightlylowerserverthroughputof7.4GB/s/core,but
shrinks the hint to roughly 16 MB for a database of one-byte
records—independentofthenumberofrecordsinthedatabase.
Ourtechniques. Wenowsummarizethetechnicalideasbehind
our results.
Recap: Single-server PIR.Our starting point is the single-
server PIR construction of Kushilevitz and Ostrovsky [62]. In
their scheme, the PIR server represents an𝑁-record database
as a matrixD of dimension
√
𝑁 by
√
𝑁. To fetch the database
record in row𝑖 and column 𝑗, the client sends the server
the encryption𝐸(q) of a dimension-
√
𝑁 vector that is zero
everywhereexceptthatithasa“1”inindex 𝑗.Iftheencryption
scheme is linearly homomorphic, the server can compute the
matrix-vector productD·𝐸(q)=𝐸(D· q) under encryption
andreturntheresulttotheclient.Theclientdecryptstorecover
D· qwhich,byconstruction,isthe 𝑗-thcolumnofthedatabase,
as desired. The total communication grows as
√
𝑁.
SimplePIR from linearly homomorphic encryption with pre-
processing.The PIR server’s throughput here is limited by the
speed with which it can compute the product of the plaintext
matrix D with the encrypted vector𝐸(q). Our observation in
SimplePIR (Section 4) is that, using Regev’s learning-with-
errors-based encryption scheme [86], the server can perform
the vast majority of the work of computing the matrix-vector
product D·𝐸(q) in advance—before the client even makes
its query. The server’s preprocessing depends only on the
database D and the public parameters of the Regev encryp-
tion scheme, so the server can reuse this preprocessing work
across many queries from many independent clients. After
this preprocessing step, to answer a client’s query, the server
needstocomputeonlyroughly 𝑁 32-bitintegermultiplications
and additions on a database of𝑁 bytes. The catch is that the
clientmustdownloada“hint”aboutthedatabasecontentsafter
this preprocessing step—the hint accounts for the bulk of the
communication cost in SimplePIR.
DoublePIR from one recursive step.The idea behind Dou-
blePIR (Section 5) comes from the original Kushilevitz and
Ostrovsky paper [62]: in SimplePIR, the client downloads the
hint from the server, along with a dimension-
√
𝑁 encrypted
vector.However,torecoveritsrecordofinterest,theclientonly
needs one small part of the hint and one component of this
vector. We show how the client can use SimplePIR recursively
onthehintandthisvectortofetchitsdesireddatabaserecordat
areducedcommunicationcost.Tominimizetheconcretecosts,
we make non-black-box use of SimplePIR in this recursive
construction, which saves a factor of the lattice dimension,
which is1024 for our parameters, over a naïve design.
ApplicationtoCertificateTransparency. Finally,weevaluate
ourPIRschemesinthecontextoftheapplicationof signedcer-
tificate timestamp (SCT) auditingin Certificate Transparency.
Inthisauditingapplication,aserverholdsaset 𝑆ofstringsand
a client (web browser) wants to test whether a particular string
𝜎, representing an SCT, appears in the set𝑆, while hiding
𝜎 from the server. (The string𝜎 reveals information about
which websites a client has visited.) Google Chrome currently
implements this auditing step using a solution that provides
𝑘-anonymity for𝑘 = 1000 [35].
Alongtheway,weconstructanewdatastructure(Section6)
formoreefficientlysolvingthistypeofprivateset-membership
problemusingPIR,whenaconstantrateoffalsepositivesisac-
ceptable(asinourapplication).Inthissetting,standardBloom
filters [15] and approaches based on PIR by keywords [26]
require the client to perform PIR over a database of𝜆𝑁 bits (if
the set𝑆 has size𝑁 and𝜆≈ 128 is a security parameter). In
contrast, our data structure requires performing PIR over only
8𝑁 bits—giving a roughly16×speedup in our application.
Google’s current solution to SCT auditing, which provides
𝑘-anonymity rather than full cryptographic privacy, requires
theclienttocommunicate24BonaverageperTLSconnection.
Our solution, which provides cryptographic privacy, requires
150 B and 0.0003 core-seconds of server compute on average
perTLSconnection,alongwith16MBofclientdownloadand
150 KB of client storage every month to maintain the hint.
Limitations.OurnewPIRschemescomewithtwomaindown-
sides. First, our client must download a “hint”: on databases
gigabytesinsize,thehintistensofmegabytes.Ifaclientmakes
only one query, this hint download dominates the overall com-
munication.Second,ourschemes’onlinecommunicationison
the order of hundreds of kilobytes, which is10×larger than in
somepriorwork.Nevertheless,webelievethatSimplePIRand
DoublePIR represent an exciting new point in the PIR design
space: large computation savings, along with a conceptually
simple design and small, stand-alone codebase, at the cost of
modest communication and storage overheads.
Our contributions.In summary, our contributions are:
• two new high-throughput single-server private information
retrieval protocols (Sections 4 and 5),
• a new data structure for private set membership using
PIR (Section 6) and its application to private auditing in
Certificate Transparency (Section 7), and
• the evaluation of these schemes, using a new open-source
implementation (Section 8).
2 Related work and comparison
Chor, Goldreich, Kushilevitz and Sudan [27] introduced PIR
in the multi-server setting and Kushilevitz and Ostrovsky [62]
gave the first construction of single-server PIR. Their scheme
uses a linearly homomorphic encryption scheme that expands
2

Scheme ServersCommunicationNoper-clientstorage(on the server)polylog
(𝑛)compute
overheadMax. achievablethroughput/core
DPF PIR [16,59] 2 log𝑁 ✓ ✓ 5,381 MB/s
XOR PIR [27] 2
√
𝑁 ✓ ✓ 6,067 MB/s
XOR PIR fast♣ [27] 2
√
𝑁 ✓ ✓ 11,797 MB/s
SealPIR [9] (𝑑= 2) 1
√
𝑁 ✗ ✓ 97 MB/s
MulPIR [8] (𝑑= 2) 1
√
𝑁 ✗ ✓ 69 MB/s♦
FastPIR [6] 1 𝑁 ✗ ✓ 215 MB/s
OnionPIR [77] 1 log𝑁 ✗ ✓ 104 MB/s
Spiral family [76] 1 log𝑁 ✗ ✓ 1,314 MB/s
KO [62]+Paillier [81] 1 𝑁𝜖 ✓ ✗ 0.131 MB/s
XPIR [5] (𝑑= 2) 1
√
𝑁 ✓ ✓ 142 MB/s♥
FrodoPIR♠ [34] 1
√
𝑁 ✓ ✓ 1,256 MB/s
SimplePIR(§4) 1
√
𝑁 ✓ ✓ 10,305 MB/s
DoublePIR(§5) 1
√
𝑁 ✓ ✓ 7,622 MB/s
Table 1: A comparison of PIR schemes on database size𝑁 and
security parameter𝑛. The overhead column indicates whether the
server computation per database bit is at most polylogarithmic in
𝑛. The throughput column gives the maximum throughput we mea-
sured for any record size. The database and record sizes used are in
Appendix A. The throughput is normalized by the number of cores,
i.e., divided by two for two-server schemes.♣This is a non-constant-
time implementation—each server’s running time depends on its
secret input. We include the performance for comparison, though a
side-channel-resistant production implementation might not use this
optimization.♦No open-source code available; this throughput is re-
portedintheMulPIRpaper[8]. ♥ThisXPIRthroughputisreportedby
SealPIR[9].♠FrodoPIRisconcurrentworkandisessentiallyidentical
to SimplePIR, up to the choice of lattice parameters (see Section 2).
ℓ-bitplaintextsto ℓ·𝐹-bitciphertexts.Wecall 𝐹 theexpansion
factor of the encryption scheme. Then, on a database of𝑁
bits and any dimension parameter𝑑 ∈ {1, 2, 3,... }, their
PIR construction has communication roughly𝑁 1/𝑑𝐹𝑑−1. The
server must perform roughly𝑁𝐹𝑑−1 homomorphic operations
in the process of answering the client’s query.
The Damgård-Jurik [33] cryptosystem has expansion fac-
tor 𝐹 ≈ 1+𝜖 for any constant𝜖 > 0, which yields very
communication-efficient PIR schemes [69]. It is possible to
construct PIR with similar communication efficiency from
an array of cryptographic assumptions [21,24,39]. However,
these schemes are all costly in computation: for eachbit of
the database, the server must perform work polynomial in the
security parameter.
Lattice-based PIR.To drive down this computational cost,
recent PIR schemes instantiate the Kushilevitz-Ostrovsky con-
struction using encryption schemes based on the ring learning-
with-errors problem (“Ring LWE”) [72]. In these schemes, for
each bit of the database, the server performs workpolylog-
arithmic in the security parameter—rather than polynomial.
However, these savings in computation come at the cost of a
larger expansion factor (𝐹≈ 10), which increases the commu-
nication as the dimension parameter𝑑 cannot be too large. For
example, XPIR [5] takes𝑑= 2. In addition, the client in the
Kushilevitz-Ostrovsky scheme must upload𝑁 1/𝑑 ciphertexts,
andeachring-LWEciphertextisatleastthousandsofkilobytes
insize.Thisimposeslargeabsolutecommunicationcosts(e.g.,
tens of MB per query, on a database of hundreds of MB).
SealPIR [9] shows that the client cancompressthe cipher-
texts in an XPIR-style scheme before uploading them. The
server can then expand these ciphertexts using homomor-
phic operations. (FastPIR [6] uses a similar idea to compress
responses.) This optimization reduces the communication
costs by orders of magnitude, though it requires the server
to store some per-client information (“key-switching hints”)—
essentially, encryptions of the client’s secret decryption key—
that is megabytes in size and that the client must upload to the
server before it makes any queries.
MulPIR[8],OnionPIR[77],andSpiral[76]additionallyuse
fully homomorphic encryption [47] to reduce the communica-
tion cost. In Spiral [76], for example, the cost grows roughly
as𝑁 1/𝑑𝐹, where the exponent on the𝐹 term is now1 instead
of𝑑− 1. Building on ideas of Gentry and Halevi [48], Spiral
shows how to decrease the communication cost while keeping
the throughput high: up to 259 MB/s on a database of short
records. (With long database records, Spiral does not use the
SealPIR query compression technique and gets throughput as
large as 1,314 MB/s, at the cost of increased communication.)
Plain learning with errors.We base our PIR schemes on
the standard learning-with-errors (LWE) problem—not the
ring variant. The expansion factor of the standard LWE-based
encryption scheme, Regev encryption [86], is roughly𝐹 =
𝑛≈ 1024, where𝑛 is the lattice security parameter. This large
expansion factor means that a direct application of Regev
encryption to the Kushilevitz-Ostrovsky PIR scheme would be
disastrous in terms of communication and computation. Our
innovationistoshowthattheservercandothebulkofitswork
in advance, and reuse it over multiple clients.
Aside from the fact that our scheme is based on aweaker
cryptographic assumption, namely plain LWE as opposed to
ring LWE, this strategy yields multiple benefits:
1. Our LWE-based schemes aresimple to implement: they
require no polynomial arithmetic or fast Fourier transforms.
2. Our schemes do not require the server to store any extra
per-client state. In contrast, many schemes based on Ring
LWE [8,9,76,77] rely on optimizations that require the
server to store one “key-switching hint” for each client.
3. Our schemes arefaster. We avoid the costs associated with
ciphertext compression and expansion. In addition, since
we only need our encryption scheme to be linearly (not
fully) homomorphic, we can use smaller and more efficient
lattice parameters.
The drawback of our schemes is that they have larger com-
3

municationcost,especiallywhentheclientmakesonlyasingle
query (so the client cannot amortize the offline download cost
over multiple queries) or when the database records are long.
Concurrent work: FrodoPIR.FrodoPIR [34] is independent
concurrentworkthatconstructsaPIRschemethatisessentially
identicaltoSimplePIR.ThedefaultconfigurationofFrodoPIR
has communication cost𝑂(𝑁), on database size𝑁, though
rebalancing the scheme gives a𝑂(𝑛
√
𝑁)-cost, on lattice di-
mension𝑛, as in SimplePIR. The additional contributions of
our work are: the more communication-efficient DoublePIR
scheme, our new data structure for private set-membership
queries (Section 6), the application to certificate transparency
(Section 7), and an optimized implementation of our schemes.
Preprocessing and PIR.The server in our PIR schemes
performs some client-independent preprocessing. Prior work
uses server-side preprocessing—either one-time [13,17,22] or
per-client [30,31,61,88,97]—to build PIR where the server
online work issublinear in the database size. Prior work also
provesstronglowerboundsontheperformanceofanysuchPIR
with preprocessing schemes [13,30,31,84]. In contrast, in this
work, we use preprocessing to build PIR where the amortized
per-queryserverworkisstill linear,butitisconcretelyefficient.
Döttling et al. [39] build communication-efficient secure
computation protocols from a range of standard assumptions:
namely,theypushmuchofthecommunicationintheirprotocols
to a one-time offline phase, which they refer to as a “trapdoor
hash” of the computation. With these techniques, they obtain
a protocol for oblivious matrix-vector products with optimal
download-rate from LWE. As described in Section 4.4, our
PIR protocols can be viewed as an oblivious matrix-vector
product that similarly uses preprocessing, though with the aim
of minimizing the protocol’s computation complexity.
Multi-server PIR.In our PIR schemes, the client commu-
nicates with a single database server. In multi-server PIR
schemes [27], the client communicates with multiple database
servers and client privacy holds only as long an attacker can-
not compromise some number of them. In Table 1, we give
the throughput of an optimized implementation [59] of a
two-server PIR scheme based on distributed point functions
(“DPF PIR”) [16,50]. We also report the throughput of a
√
𝑁-
communication two-server PIR scheme (“XOR PIR”) [27]. It
is possible to speed these schemes up by roughly2× if the
server’s running time can depend on theHamming weightof
the client’s query vector (“XOR PIR fast”). The downside of
this optimization is that it could potentially leak information
about one server’s secret query vector to another server via
timing information, thereby breaking client privacy. Whether
such a performance-leakage trade-off is acceptable in practice
likely depends on the application scenario.
Hardware acceleration for PIR.Recent work improves the
throughputofbothsingle-server[67]andmulti-server[56]PIR
using hardware acceleration. This approach is complementary
to ours, as it may further speed up our new PIR protocols.
Privacy and certificate transparency. Lueks and Gold-
berg [71] and Kales, Omolola, and Ramacher [59] propose
using multi-server PIR for auditing in certificate transparency.
Weworkinthe single-serversetting,wheretheclientcommuni-
cates with a separate audit server (e.g., Google, in the applica-
tion to Chrome). Further, we introduce a new set-membership
data structure to reduce the cost of auditing (Section 6). We
discuss existing approaches to auditing in Section 7.
3 Background and definitions
Notation.For a probability distribution𝜒, we use𝑥←
R
𝜒 to
indicatethat 𝑥 isarandomsamplefrom 𝜒.Forafiniteset 𝑆,we
use𝑥←
R
𝑆 to denote sampling𝑥 uniformly at random from𝑆.
Weuse Ntorepresentthenaturalnumbersand Z𝑝 torepresent
integers modulo𝑝. All logarithms are to the base two. For
𝑥∈ N, we let[𝑥] denote the set{1,...,𝑥 }. Throughout, we
assume that values like
√
𝑁 are integral, wherever doing so is
essentially without loss of generality. Algorithms are modeled
as RAM programs and their runtime is measured in terms of
thenumberofRAMinstructionsexecuted.Weusethesymbols
MB and GB to denote220 and 230 bytes, respectively.
3.1 Learning with errors (LWE)
The security of our PIR schemes relies on the decision version
of the learning-with-errors assumption [86]. The assumption
is parameterized by the dimension of the LWE secret𝑛∈ N,
the number of samples𝑚∈ N, the integer modulus𝑞≥ 2,
and an error distribution𝜒 over Z. The LWE assumption then
asserts that for a matrixA←
R
Z𝑚×𝑛
𝑞 , a secrets←
R
Z𝑛
𝑞, an error
vector e←
R
𝜒𝑚, and a random vectorr←
R
Z𝑚
𝑞, the following
distributions are computationally indistinguishable:
{( A, As+ e)}
𝑐
≈{( A, r)}.
More specifically, the(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 )-LWE problem with𝑚 sam-
ples is(𝑇,𝜖)-hard if all adversaries running in time𝑇 have
advantage at most𝜖 in distinguishing the two distributions. In
Section 4.2, we give concrete values for the LWE parameters.
Secret-key Regev encryption.Regev [86] gives a secret-key
encryption scheme that is secure under the LWE assumption.
WithLWEparameters (𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 ) andaplaintextmodulus 𝑝,the
Regev secret key is a vectors←
R
Z𝑛
𝑞. The Regev encryption of
a message𝜇∈ Z𝑝 is
(a,𝑐)=(a, a⊺s+𝑒+⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋· 𝜇)∈ Z𝑛
𝑞× Z𝑞,
for𝑒←
R
𝜒. To decrypt the ciphertext, anyone who knows the
secret scancompute 𝑐− a⊺s mod𝑞 androundtheresulttothe
nearest multiple of⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋. Decryption succeeds as long as the
absolute value of the error sampled from the error distribution
𝜒 is smaller than1
2·⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋. We say that a setting of the Regev
parameters supportscorrectness error𝛿 if the probability of a
decryption error is at most𝛿 (over the encryption algorithm’s
4

randomness). Regev encryption is additively homomorphic,
since given two ciphertexts(a1,𝑐 1) and(a2,𝑐 2), their sum
(a1+ a2,𝑐 1+𝑐2)decryptstothesumoftheplaintexts,provided
again that the error remains sufficiently small.
3.2 Private information retrieval with hints
We now give the syntax and security definitions for the type of
PIR schemes we construct. Our form of PIR is very similar to
the standard single-server PIR schemes [27,62]. The primary
distinction is that we allow the PIR server to preprocess the
database ahead of time and to output two “hints”: one that the
server stores locally, and another that the server sends to each
client. This preprocessing allows the PIR server to push much
of its computational work into an offline phase that takes place
before the client makes its query. In our constructions, both
hints are small—they have size sublinear in the database size.
In addition, all clients use the same hint and a client can reuse
the same hint for all of its of PIR queries.
Remark3.1(Handlingdatabaseupdates) . AsPIRschemeswith
preprocessingperformsomeprecomputationoverthedatabase,
the server inherently needs to repeat some of this work if
the database contents change. Related work investigates how
to minimize the amount of computation and communication
that such database updates incur, in both a black-box [61] and
a protocol-specific [73] manner. We address how to handle
updates in our schemes in Appendices C.3 and E.3.
A PIR-with-preprocessing scheme [13], over plaintext
space D and database size𝑁∈ N, consists of four routines,
which all take the security parameter as an implicit input:
Setup(db) → (hint𝑠, hint𝑐). Given a database db ∈ D𝑁,
output preprocessed hints for the server and the client.
Query(𝑖)→( st, qu). Given an index𝑖∈[ 𝑁], output a secret
client statest and a database queryqu.
Answer(db, hint𝑠, qu)→ ans. Given the databasedb, a server
hint hint𝑠, and a client queryqu, output an answerans.
Recover(st, hint𝑐, ans)→ 𝑑. Given a secret client statest, a
clienthint hint𝑐,andananswer ans,outputarecord 𝑑∈ D.
Correctness. When the client and the server execute the
PIR protocol faithfully, the client should recover its desired
database record with all but negligible probability in the
implicit correctness parameter. Formally, we say that a PIR
scheme hascorrectness error𝛿 if, on database size𝑁∈ N,
for all databasesdb=(𝑑1,...,𝑑 𝑁)∈ D𝑁 and for all indices
𝑖∈[ 𝑁], the following probability is at least1−𝛿:
Pr

𝑑𝑖 = ˆ𝑑𝑖 :
(hint𝑠, hint𝑐)← Setup(db)
(st, qu)← Query(𝑖)
ans← Answer(db, hint𝑠, qu)
ˆ𝑑𝑖← Recover(st, hint𝑐, ans)

.
ForthePIRschemetobenon-trivial,thetotalclient-to-server
communication should be smaller than the bitlength of the
database.Thatis,itmustholdthat |hint𝑐|+|qu|+|ans|≪|db|.
Security. The client’s query should reveal no information
about its desired database record. That is, we say that a PIR
scheme is(𝑇,𝜖)-secure if, for all adversariesA running in
time at most𝑇, on database size𝑁∈ N, and for all𝑖,𝑗 ∈[ 𝑁],
 Pr[A(1𝑁, qu)= 1 :(st, qu)← Query(𝑖)]
− Pr[A(1𝑁, qu)= 1 :(st, qu)← Query(𝑗)]
≤𝜖.
Remark3.2 (Stateless client). The client in our PIR schemes
does not hold any secret state across queries. In contrast, in
SealPIR [9] and related schemes, the client builds its queries
using persistent, long-term cryptographic secrets. We show in
Appendix B that, in certain settings, a malicious PIR server
can perform a state-recovery attack against these schemes and
thus break client privacy for both past and future queries. Our
stateless schemes are not vulnerable to such attacks.
4 SimplePIR
In this section, we present our first PIR scheme, SimplePIR.
SimplePIR is the fastest single-server PIR scheme known to
date in terms of throughput per second per core (Table 1). In
particular, we prove the following theorem:
Informal Theorem 4.1.On database size𝑁, let𝑝∈ Nbe a
suitableplaintextmodulusforsecret-keyRegevencryptionwith
LWE parameters(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 ), achieving(𝑇,𝜖)-security for
√
𝑁
LWEsamplesandsupporting
√
𝑁 homomorphicadditionswith
correctness error𝛿 (cf. Section 4.2). Then, for a random LWE
matrix A∈ Z
√
𝑁×𝑛
𝑞 , SimplePIR is a(𝑇−𝑂(
√
𝑁), 2𝜖)-secure
PIR scheme on database size𝑁, over plaintext spaceZ𝑝, with
correctness error𝛿.
We give a formal description of SimplePIR in Figure 2 and
we prove its security and correctness in Appendix C.
Remark4.1 (Concrete costs of SimplePIR). Using the param-
eters of Informal Theorem 4.1, we give SimplePIR’s concrete
costs, with no hidden constants, in terms of operations (i.e.,
integer additions and multiplications) overZ𝑞. In a one-time
public preprocessing phase, SimplePIR requires:
• the server to perform2𝑛𝑁 operations inZ𝑞, and
• the client to download𝑛
√
𝑁 elements inZ𝑞,
whereourimplementationtakes 𝑛= 210and𝑞= 232toachieve
128-bit security against the best known attacks [7].
On each query, SimplePIR requires
• the client to upload
√
𝑁 elements inZ𝑞,
• the server to perform2𝑁 operations inZ𝑞, and
• the client to download
√
𝑁 elements inZ𝑞.
4.1 Technical ideas
We now discuss the SimplePIR construction in more detail.
The simplest non-trivial single-server PIR schemes [23,
62,69] take the following “square-root” approach: given an
5

Construction: SimplePIR.The parameters of the con-
structionareadatabasesize 𝑁,LWEparameters (𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 ),
aplaintextmodulus 𝑝≪𝑞,andaLWEmatrix A∈ Z
√
𝑁×𝑛
𝑞
(sampled in practice using a hash function). The database
consistsof 𝑁 valuesin Z𝑝,whichwerepresentasamatrix
in Z
√
𝑁×
√
𝑁
𝑝 . Define the scalarΔ :=⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋∈ Z.
Setup(db∈ Z
√
𝑁×
√
𝑁
𝑝 )→( hint𝑠, hint𝑐).
• Return(hint𝑠, hint𝑐)←(⊥ , db· A∈ Z
√
𝑁×𝑛
𝑞 ).
Query(𝑖∈[ 𝑁])→( st, qu).
• Write𝑖 as a pair(𝑖row,𝑖 col)∈[
√
𝑁]2.
• Sample s←
R
Z𝑛
𝑞 and e←
R
𝜒
√
𝑁.
• Compute qu←( As+ e+Δ· u𝑖col)∈ Z
√
𝑁
𝑞 , whereu𝑖col
is the vector of all zeros with a single ‘1’ at index𝑖col.
• Return(st, qu)←(( 𝑖row, s), qu).
Answer(db∈ Z
√
𝑁×
√
𝑁
𝑝 , hint𝑠, qu∈ Z
√
𝑁
𝑞 )→ ans.
• Return ans← db· qu∈ Z
√
𝑁
𝑞 .
Recover(st, hint𝑐∈ Z
√
𝑁×𝑛
𝑞 , ans∈ Z
√
𝑁
𝑞 )→ 𝑑.
• Parse(𝑖row∈[
√
𝑁], s∈ Z𝑛
𝑞)← st.
• Compute ˆ𝑑← (ans[𝑖row]− hint𝑐[𝑖row, :]· s) ∈Z𝑞,
where ans[𝑖row] denotes component𝑖row of ans and
hint𝑐[𝑖row, :] denotes row𝑖row of hint𝑐.
• Return𝑑← RoundΔ( ˆ𝑑)/Δ∈ Z𝑝, which isˆ𝑑 rounded
to the nearest multiple ofΔand then divided byΔ.
Figure 2: The SimplePIR protocol.
𝑁-elementdatabase,theserverstoresthisdatabaseasa
√
𝑁-by-√
𝑁 square matrix. Meanwhile, a client who wishes to query
for database entry𝑖∈[ 𝑁] decomposes index𝑖 into the pair
of coordinates(𝑖row,𝑖 col)∈[
√
𝑁]2. Then, the client builds a
unit vector u𝑖col in Z
√
𝑁
2 (i.e., the vector of all zeros with a
single‘1’atindex 𝑖col),element-wiseencryptsitwithalinearly
homomorphic encryption scheme, and sends this encrypted
vector to the server. The server computes the matrix-vector
product between the database and the query vector and returns
it to the client. Finally, the client decrypts element𝑖row of the
server’sanswervector—whichcorrespondsexactlytotheinner
product of database row𝑖row and encrypted unit vectoru𝑖col, or,
equivalently,theencrypteddatabaseentryat (𝑖row,𝑖 col).Inthis
scheme,theserverandtheclientexchange 2
√
𝑁 ciphertextele-
ments, while the server performs𝑁 ciphertext multiplications
and additions to answer each PIR query.
Our starting point is to instantiate this “square-root” ap-
proach with the secret-key version of Regev’s LWE-based
encryption scheme [86]. Let(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 ) be LWE parameters.
Then, the Regev encryption of a vector𝝁∈ Z𝑚
𝑝 consists of a
√
𝑁
√
𝑁
db ×
𝑛
A
,
1
qu →
𝑛
hint𝑐
,
1
ans
one-time, offline preprocessing
per-query, online computation
Figure3:TheservercomputationinSimplePIR.Eachcellrepresentsa
Z𝑞 element,and×denotesmatrixmultiplication.Theserverperforms
the bulk of its work in a one-time preprocessing step. Thereafter, the
servercananswereachclient’squerywithalightweightonlinephase.
pair of a matrix and a vector:
Enc( 𝝁)=(A, c)=(A, As+ e+⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋· 𝝁),
for some LWE matrixA←
R
Z𝑚×𝑛
𝑞 , secrets←
R
Z𝑛
𝑞, and error
vector e←
R
𝜒𝑚.
WemakethreecrucialobservationsaboutRegevencryption:
1. First, a large part of the ciphertext—namely, the matrix
A—is independent of the encrypted message. It is thus
possible to generate the matrixA ahead of time.
2. Second, Regev encryption remains secure even when the
same matrixAis used to encrypt polynomially many mes-
sages(cf.CorollaryC.3),providedthateachciphertextuses
an independent secret vectors and error vectore [83].
3. Finally, we can takeA to be pseudorandom (rather than
random) at a negligible loss in security, allowing us to
succinctly representA by a short random seed.
In SimplePIR, we leverage these three observations as fol-
lows. Consider a client who wishes to retrieve the database
entry at(𝑖row,𝑖 col). At a conceptual level, the client’s query to
the server consists ofEnc(u𝑖col)=(A, c)—the Regev encryp-
tion of the vector inZ
√
𝑁
𝑝 that is zero everywhere but with a
“1” at index𝑖col. The server then represents the database as a
matrix D∈ Z
√
𝑁×
√
𝑁
𝑝 and computes and returns the matrix-
vectorproductofthedatabasewiththeclient’sencryptedquery,
i.e.,(D· A, D· c). From the server’s reply, the client can use
standard Regev decryption to recoverD· u𝑖col∈ Z
√
𝑁
𝑝 , which
is exactly the𝑖col-th column of the database, as desired.
Now, we make the following modifications:
1. We have the server compute the valueD· A ahead of time
in a preprocessing phase. This preprocessing step requires
2𝑛𝑁 operations in Z𝑞, on lattice dimension𝑛≈ 210 and
database size𝑁. Then, to answer the client’s query, the
serverneedstocomputethevalue D· c,whichrequiresonly
2𝑁 operationsin Z𝑞. So,an𝑛/(𝑛+ 1) fraction (i.e.,99.9%)
of the server’s work can happen ahead of time—before the
client even decides which database record it wants to fetch.
2. We have all clients use the same matrixA to build each of
theirqueries.Then,theserveronlyprecomputes D· Aonce.
Theserversendsthisone-time“hint”toallclients.Thus,the
6

server amortizes the cost of computing and communicating
D· A over many clients and over many queries.
3. As an optimization, we compressA using pseudorandom-
ness. Specifically, the server and the clients can deriveAas
the output of a public hash function, modelled as a random
oracle, applied to a fixed string in counter mode. This saves
on bandwidth and storage, as the server and the clients
communicate and store only a small seed to generateA.
The security of the SimplePIR construction follows almost
immediatelyfromthesecurityofRegevencryption[86]witha
reused matrixA [83], which in turn follows from the hardness
ofLWE.SimplePIR’scorrectnessfollowsfromthecorrectness
of Regev’s linearly homomorphic encryption scheme and of
Kushilevitz and Ostrovsky’s “square-root” PIR template.
4.2 Parameter selection
Picking the LWE parameters (𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 ) and the plaintext
modulus𝑝 requires a standard (though tedious) analysis. We
choose our parameters to have 128-bit security, according
to modern lattice-attack-cost estimates [7]. In particular, we
set the secret dimension𝑛 = 210, use modulus𝑞 = 232 (as
modern hardware natively supports operations with this
modulus), set the error distribution 𝜒 to be the discrete
Gaussian distribution with standard deviation𝜎 = 6.4, and
allow correctness error𝛿 = 2−40. We obtain the following
trade-off between database size𝑁 and plaintext modulus𝑝:
Database size𝑁: 226 228 230 234 238 242
Plaintext modulus𝑝: 991 833 701 495 350 247
We discuss parameter selection further in Appendix C.1.
4.3 Extensions
Finally, we extend our SimplePIR construction to meet the
requirements of realistic deployment scenarios:
Supporting databases with larger record sizes.The basic
SimplePIR scheme (Figure 2) supports a database in which
each record is a singleZ𝑝 element—or, roughly 8-10 bits with
our parameter settings. Our main application (Section 7) uses
a database with one-bit records, though other applications of
PIR [6,9,10,55,76] use much longer records.
To handle large records, we observe that the client in Sim-
plePIR can retrieve an entire column of the database at once.
Concretely,afterexecutingasingleonlinephasewiththeserver
to query for database element(𝑖row,𝑖 col), the client can run the
Recover procedure
√
𝑁 times—once for every row in[
√
𝑁]—
toreconstructtheentirecolumn 𝑖col ofthedatabasematrix.So,
to support large records, we encode each record as multiple
elements in the plaintext space,Z𝑝, and store these elements
stacked vertically in the same column. By making a single
online query and reconstructing the corresponding column of
elements, the client recovers any record of its choosing.
On a database of𝑁 records, each inZ𝑑
𝑝 (where 𝑑≤ 𝑁),
with LWE secret dimension𝑛 and modulus𝑞, SimplePIR has:
• one-time (hint) download𝑛·
√
𝑑𝑁 elements inZ𝑞,
• per-query upload and download
√
𝑑𝑁 elements inZ𝑞, and
• per-query server computation2𝑑𝑁 operations inZ𝑞.
Fetching many database records at once (“Batch PIR”).
In many applications [9,10], a client wants to fetch𝑘 records
fromthePIRserveratonce.IftheclientrunsourPIRprotocol
𝑘 timesonadatabaseof 𝑁 records,thetotalservertimewould
be roughly𝑘𝑁. We can apply the “batch PIR” techniques of
Ishaietal.[57]toallowaclienttofetch 𝑘 recordsatserver-side
cost≪ 𝑘𝑁, without increasing the hint size.
The idea is to randomly partition the database of𝑁 records
into 𝑘 chunks, each represented as a matrix of dimension
(
√
𝑁/𝑘)-by-
√
𝑁. If the𝑘 records that the client wants to fetch
fallintodistinctchunks,theclientcanrecovertheserecordsby
running SimplePIR once on each database chunk. In this case,
the hint size remains𝑛
√
𝑁—as in one-query SimplePIR. The
communicationcostfortheclientis 𝑘
√
𝑁—𝑘 timeslargerthan
in one-query SimplePIR (and identical to the communication
if the client fetched all𝑘 records sequentially). The server
performs𝑁 operations inZ𝑞—as in one-query SimplePIR.
However, more than one of the client’s desired records may
fall into the same chunk. There are two ways to handle this:
• If the client must recover all𝑘 records with overwhelming
probability, the client can make𝜆 PIR queries to each of
the𝑘 chunks to achieve failure probability2−Ω(𝜆) [9,57].
This optimization saves on server work as long as𝜆 < 𝑘.
• Iftheclientonlyneedstorecoveraconstantfractionofthe 𝑘
database records, then the client and the server can run this
batch-PIR protocol only once. The server-side computation
cost is as in one-query SimplePIR.
Additionalimprovements. Wediscusshowtofurtherimprove
the asymptotic efficiency of SimplePIR in Appendix C.3.
4.4 Fast linearly homomorphic encryption
In Appendix D, we introduce the notion oflinearly homo-
morphic encryption with preprocessing. This new primitive
abstracts out the key properties of Regev encryption that we
use in SimplePIR. We expect this new form of linearly homo-
morphic encryption to have further practical applications.
5 DoublePIR
While SimplePIR has high server-side throughput, it requires
theclienttodownloadandstorearelativelylargepreprocessed
hint, of size roughly𝑛
√
𝑁 on lattice dimension𝑛≈ 210 and
database size𝑁. In this section, we present DoublePIR, a new
PIR scheme that recursively applies SimplePIR to reduce the
hintsizetoroughly 𝑛2 onlatticedimension 𝑛—independentof
the database size—while maintaining a server-side throughput
upwards of 7.4 GB/s. (In practice, this hint size is 16 MB
for one-byte records.) For databases of very many records
(𝑁≫𝑛2≈ 220), DoublePIR has a much smaller hint size than
7

SimplePIR. As in SimplePIR, the per-query communication
cost for DoublePIR is𝑂(
√
𝑁) on database size𝑁.
5.1 Construction
We present a formal description of DoublePIR in Figure 14 of
AppendixE,alongwithafullcorrectnessandsecurityanalysis.
In this section, we describe the key design ideas.
We first give the concrete costs of DoublePIR on database
size𝑁,latticedimension 𝑛,LWEmodulus 𝑞,plaintextmodulus
𝑝, and𝜅=⌈log(𝑞)/log(𝑝)⌉≈ 4 (chosen as in Appendix E.1).
In a one-time public preprocessing phase, DoublePIR requires
1. theservertoperform 2𝑛𝑁+ 2𝜅𝑛2√
𝑁 operationsin Z𝑞,and
2. the client to download𝜅𝑛2 elements inZ𝑞.
On each query, DoublePIR requires
1. the client to upload2
√
𝑁 elements inZ𝑞,
2. the server to do2𝑁+ 2(2𝑛+ 1)·
√
𝑁·𝜅 Z𝑞 operations, and
3. the client to download(2𝑛+ 1)· 𝜅 elements inZ𝑞.
At a high level, DoublePIR first executes exactly as Sim-
plePIR: from the database, the server computes a hint matrix
and, in response to each client’s query, produces an answer
vector. At this point, we observe that a client querying for ele-
ment(𝑖row,𝑖 col) in SimplePIR needs two pieces of information
to recover its desired database element:
• row𝑖row of the hint matrixD· A∈ Z
√
𝑁×𝑛
𝑞 , and
• element𝑖row of the answer vectora∈ Z
√
𝑁
𝑞 .
Thus, in DoublePIR, we have the client execute a second level
of SimplePIR over the hint matrix and the answer vector to
retrieve these(𝑛+ 1) values. As such, the client in DoublePIR
recovers the database entry at(𝑖row,𝑖 col) without downloading
the large first-level hint.
Kushilevitz and Ostrovsky [62] first proposed using re-
cursion to reduce communication costs in PIR in this way.
However, applied naïvely, this strategy requires(𝑛+ 1)≈ 210
instances of PIR to recover the(𝑛+ 1) desired values. We
avoid this bottleneck with the insight that SimplePIR lets the
client retrieve acolumn of the database at a time (as discussed
in Section 4.3). Therefore, in DoublePIR, we run the second
level of PIR over the database corresponding to thetranspose
of the hint matrix concatenated with the answer vector (i.e.,D· A|| a𝑇). Using a single invocation of SimplePIR, the
clientinDoublePIRcanretrievecolumn 𝑖row ofthisdatabase—
which holds exactly row𝑖row of the hint matrix and element
𝑖row of the answer vector—and finally recover the database
entry at(𝑖row,𝑖 col). As SimplePIR executes over a database of
elements inZ𝑝, while the hint matrix and the answer vector
consist of elements inZ𝑞, the server in DoublePIR computes
the base-𝑝 decomposition of the entries in the hint matrix and
the answer vector before performing the second level of PIR.
Since this second level of PIR operates on a much smaller
database, its cost is dwarfed by that of the first level of PIR:
in DoublePIR, both the online communication and the server
throughput remain roughly the same as in SimplePIR. More-
over,astheclientinDoublePIRforgoesdownloadingthelarge
first-level hint, it now only downloads a much smaller hint,
whose size is independent of the database length, produced by
the second level of PIR. Concretely, our PIR client downloads
a 16 MB hint in the offline phase.
Remark5.1 (Why not recurse more?). DoublePIR performs
twolevelsofPIRtoreducethetotalcommunication.Anatural
question is whether additional levels of recursion can help,
as in standard single-server PIR schemes [62]. After𝑟 levels
of recursion, the cost of the recursive PIR scheme, on lattice
dimension𝑛 and database size𝑁, would be (hiding constants):
• one-time download𝑛𝑟 in the preprocessing step, as well as
• per-query upload𝑟·𝑁 1/𝑟 and download𝑛𝑟−1.
For𝑟 >2, the communication is likely too large for databases
ofinterest.Anintriguingopenquestionistoconstructrecursive
LWE-based PIR schemes with total communication𝑛·𝑁 1/𝑟.
5.2 Extensions
We extend DoublePIR to handle diverse deployment scenarios.
Handling large database records.To handle databases with
large records, we represent each record as a series of elements
in Z𝑝, where𝑝 is the plaintext modulus, using base-𝑝 decom-
position. Let𝑑 denote the number ofZ𝑝 elements that each
recordmapsto.Then,oneachexecutionofDoublePIR,werun
the PIR scheme𝑑 times in parallel, over𝑑 databases, where
the𝑖-th database holds the𝑖-th Z𝑝 element of each record.
With this approach, DoublePIR’s throughput is identical on
databases with long records and with short records. On a
database of𝑁 records, each inZ𝑑
𝑝, with lattice dimension𝑛,
LWE modulus𝑞, and𝜅=⌈log(𝑞)/log(𝑝)⌉, DoublePIR has:
• hint size𝑑𝜅𝑛 2 elements inZ𝑞,
• online upload2
√
𝑁 elements inZ𝑞,
• online server work2𝑑

𝑁+𝜅(2𝑛+ 1)
√
𝑁

ops. inZ𝑞, and
• online download𝑑𝜅·( 2𝑛+ 1) elements inZ𝑞.
Batching client queries.To implement query batching in
DoublePIR, we batch queries exactly as in SimplePIR when
performing the first level of PIR. As DoublePIR makes non-
black-box use of SimplePIR in performing the second level of
PIR, we are not able to derive any computation savings from
batching in this second, recursive step. (In particular, in the
second level of PIR, the client must read an entire column
consistingof(𝑛+1)elementsatonceforeachquery;thisbreaks
SimplePIR’s batching trick.) However, as the first level of
PIR dominates the computation in DoublePIR, batching many
queriesneverthelessgreatlyimprovesDoublePIR’sthroughput.
Concretely, to fetch a constant fraction among a set of𝑘
recordsfromadatabaseof 𝑁 valuesin Z𝑝,onlatticedimension
𝑛,LWEmodulus 𝑞,and 𝜅=⌈log(𝑞)/log(𝑝)⌉,DoublePIRhas:
• hint size𝜅𝑛2 elements inZ𝑞,
8

• online upload
√
𝑁(𝑘+
√
𝑘) elements inZ𝑞,
• online server work2𝑁+ 2𝑘(2𝑛+ 1)𝜅
√
𝑁 ops. inZ𝑞, and
• online download𝑘𝜅(2𝑛+ 1) elements inZ𝑞.
6 Data structure for private
approximate set membership
Inthissection,weintroduceanewdatastructureforthe private
approximatesetmembership problem.Inthisproblem,aclient
holds a private string𝜎, a server holds a set of strings𝑆, and
the client wants to test whether𝜎∈𝑆 without revealing𝜎 to
the server. Unlike in private set intersection [46], the server’s
set𝑆 is public. To rule out the trivial solution where the server
sends𝑆 to the client, we insist on communication sublinear in
|𝑆|. Our approach is approximate: there is some chance that
the client outputs “𝜎∈ 𝑆” when in fact this is not the case.
However, this false-positive rate is bounded even when the set
𝑆 and the string𝜎 are chosenadversarially. Looking ahead,
our data structure will be at the core of our new scheme for
auditing in Certificate Transparency (Section 7).
At a high level, we have the server preprocess its set𝑆 into
a data structure. Then, the client, holding a string𝜎, can test
whether𝜎∈𝑆 by privately reading a few bits of the server’s
data structure using PIR. The relevant cost metrics are:
• Number of probes.How many bits of the server’s data
structure must the client read?
• PIR database size.Over how many bits of the server’s data
structure does the client perform its private PIR read?
• Adversarial false-positive rate.Given an honest server but
an adversarially chosen set𝑆 and string𝜎, what is the
probability,only over the client’s secret randomness, that
the client outputs “𝜎∈𝑆” when in fact𝜎∉𝑆?
Background: Bloom filters.A Bloom filter [15] is a standard
data structure for approximate set membership. A one-hash-
functionBloomfilterconsistsofafixed-lengthbitstring 𝐷 and
usesahashfunction 𝐻 :{0, 1}∗→{ 1,..., |𝐷|}.Givenasetof
strings𝑆⊂{ 0, 1}∗, the setup routine hashes each string𝜎∈𝑆
into an index𝑖∈{ 1,..., |𝐷|} and sets the corresponding bit
of the data array:𝐷𝐻(𝜎)← 1. Then, to test whether a string
𝜎 is in the set represented by the data structure𝐷, the query
algorithm outputs “𝜎∈𝑆” if and only if the bit𝐷𝐻(𝜎) = 1.
As long as the query string is chosenindependently of the
hash function𝐻, the probability of a false-positive is at most
1/2 when|𝐷| ≥ 2|𝑆|. However, when the query string is
chosenadversarially—as can be the case in our application—
an adversary can easily find strings𝜎∈𝑆 and ˆ𝜎∉𝑆 such that
𝐻(𝜎)=𝐻(ˆ𝜎).Inthiscase,theone-hash-functionBloomfilter
willalwaysincorrectly output “ˆ𝜎∈𝑆.” We present a new data
structure—which is a twist on Bloom filters—to address this
false-positive issue, without increasing the number of probes
or the size of the PIR read required by the query algorithm.
𝑖
0 1 0 1 1 0
1 0 1 0 0 1
0 1 1 1 0 0
0 0 1 0 1 1
1 0 0 1 0 1
𝑆={𝜎1,𝜎 2,𝜎 3} ...
hash
function 1
hash
function𝑎
ˆ𝜎∈𝑆?
PIR read
Figure 4: Our data structure for private, approximate set membership
with adversarial soundness, when instantiated with a set𝑆 consisting
of three strings and with𝑎= 5hash functions. We highlight inblue
the bits of the data structure that are set, in red the bits that the query
string ˆ𝜎 maps to, and inyellow the area covered by the client’s PIR
read, when the client probes the𝑖-th one-hash-function Bloom filter.
Remark6.1 (False positives). Some, but not all, applications
can tolerate a non-negligible false-positive rate. For example,
credential-breach lookups [66,82,91] and contact discov-
ery [60] may tolerate false-positive rates as large as2−30; in
contrast,SafeBrowsingblocklistchecks[52,61]demandacryp-
tographically negligible false-positive rate, as false positives
wouldcausealegitimatewebsitetobeflaggedasmalicious.In
the latter case, other data structures may be more appropriate.
6.1 Our approximate membership test
Our data structure for approximate set-membership, illustrated
in Figure 4, is parameterized by integers𝑎,𝑘 ∈ N, a universe
of stringsU, and a set size𝑁. The data structure consists of𝑎
independentone-hash-functionBloomfilters[15],eachofsize
𝑘𝑁 bits. Crucially, these Bloom filters each use independent
hash functions, which are chosenafter the set𝑆 is fixed. In the
remainder of this section, we give an informal description of
our construction; a formal treatment appears in Appendix F.
Data-structure setup.The setup algorithm takes as input a set
ofstrings 𝑆⊆ U ofsizeatmost 𝑁.Thealgorithmthenchooses
a set of𝑎 hash functions—one per Bloom filter—and inserts
each string in𝑆 into each of the𝑎 one-hash-function Bloom
filters defined by these hash functions. (In practice, we would
use a salted hash function with a different salt per filter.)
Query algorithm.Given a query string𝜎, the query algorithm
chooses an index𝑖←
R
[𝑎] at random, and outputs the result of
querying the𝑖-th one-hash-function Bloom filter on string𝜎.
Our data structure has the following properties:
Correctness.For any set𝑆⊆ U and any query string𝜎∈𝑆,
the query algorithm always returns “𝜎∈𝑆.”
Adversarial false-positive rate 1/2.For any set𝑆⊆ U of size
at most𝑁, for a random choice of the hash functions used in
the data structure, and for any query stringˆ𝜎∉𝑆—which can
depend on the hash functions—the data structure incorrectly
returns “ˆ𝜎∈𝑆” with probability at most1/2(taken over the
query algorithm’s randomness), for an appropriate choice of
the parameters𝑎 and𝑘. In Appendix F, we prove:
Proposition 6.2: For all𝜆∈ N, on parameters𝑘≥ 8 and
𝑎≥ 2(log(|U|)+ 𝜆), our approximate set-membership data
9

structure has adversarial false-positive rate at most1/2. The
construction fails with probability2−𝜆, over the choice of the
Bloom filters’ hash functions, modeled as independent random
oracles. Concretely, on|U|= 2256, taking𝑎= 768and𝑘 = 8
gives false-positive rate1/2 and failure probability2−128.
PIR compatibility.Toprivatelytest whether a string is in the
set,theclientcanperformaPIRreadoveronlyasmallfraction
of the data structure. More specifically, the query algorithm
probes a single bit in one of the Bloom filters. The client can
reveal which Bloom filter it wants to probe to the server, as
thisdoes not depend on the query string. So, while the entire
data structure consists of𝑎𝑘𝑁 bits, the client can execute a
private set-membership test with a PIR read over only𝑘𝑁 bits.
6.2 Related approaches and comparison
We now compare our solution to other data structures for
private approximate set-membership, given in Table 5. One
natural alternative would be to use asingleone-hash-function
Bloom filter. (In contrast, our construction uses𝑎≈ 768 one-
hash-function Bloom filters.) However, this approach isnot
soundinouradversarialsetting:asthedatastructure(including
its hash function) is public, an adversary can trivially find a
string that causes the query algorithm toalwaysreturn a false-
positive result. We can address this issue by using a Bloom
filter with𝑂(𝜆) hash functions, which gives security against
2𝑂(𝜆)-time attacks (where𝜆≈ 128 is a security parameter).
Unfortunately, the query algorithm of such a data structure is
roughly𝜆×more expensive than ours in terms of both (1) the
number of probes and (2) the size of the PIR read required for
a private query.
Adversarial Bloom filters [28,45,78] provide the false-
positive guarantees we require, but do not naturally support
privatereadsviaPIR.Inparticular,theyhavetheclientsendits
string𝜎 to the server; the server then applies a pseudorandom
function to𝜎 to determine which bits to probe. It is not clear
howtousesuchadatastructureinoursettingwithoutrelatively
expensive general-purpose multi-party computation schemes.
Another approach to private set membership has the client
and the server execute a PIR by keywords protocol [26]. On
security parameter𝜆, the server stores a𝜆-bit hash of each
string in its set in a hash table. Thereafter, the client can
perform PIR over this hash table to check if a string is present.
While the client probes only few locations of the hash table,
its PIR read must cover the entire table, or roughly3𝜆𝑁 bits.
Finally, prior work constructs other data structures for ap-
proximate set membership [36,53], offering different perfor-
mancetrade-offs.Combiningourideasforefficientlytolerating
falsepositivesinanadversarialsettingwithsuchdatastructures
is an intriguing direction for future work.
PIR Adv. false-
Probes size positive rate
PIR by keywords [26] 2 3 𝜆𝑁 0
Standard Bloom filter [15] 𝑂(𝜆) 𝑂(𝜆𝑁) 0
1-hash-fn Bloom filter [15] 1 2 𝑁 1 (insecure)
This work 1 8𝑁 1/2
Table5:Privateset-membershipdatastructures,forsetsof 𝑁 elements
fromuniverse U,onsecurityparameter 𝜆.Thedatastructuresmayfail
with probability|U| 2−𝜆, over their random choice of hash functions,
modeled as random oracles.
7 Application: Auditing in
Certificate Transparency
We now apply our new PIR schemes (Sections 4 and 5), along
with our set-membership data structure (Section 6), to solve
theproblemofprivatelyauditingsignedcertificatetimestamps
in deployments of Certificate Transparency [63,64,74].
7.1 Problem statement
Background: Certificate Transparency.The goal of Certifi-
cate Transparency is to store every public-key certificate that
every certificate authority issues in a set of publicly accessible
logs. To this end, certificate authorities submit the certificates
they issue to log operators, who respond with asigned certifi-
cate timestamp(SCT). The SCT is a promise to include the
new certificate in the log maintained by this operator within
some bounded period of time.
Later on, when a TLS server sends a public-key certificate
to a client, the server attaches a number of SCTs according to
the client’s policy (e.g., Chrome and Safari both require SCTs
from three distinct log operators). By verifying the SCTs, the
client can be sure that each of the log operators has seen the
new certificate and—if the operator is honest—will eventually
logit.Domainoperatorscanthenusethelogstodetectwhether
a certificate authority has mistakenly or maliciously issued a
certificate for their domain. In this setting, the log contents are
public; related work investigates scenarios where this is not
the case, as in end-user key distribution [75].
SCT auditing.To keep the logs honest, some party in the
system must verify that the log operators are fulfilling the
promise implicit in the SCTs that they issue. In particular, if a
client receives an SCT for some certificate𝐶 signed by a log
operator, the client would like to verify that𝐶 appears in that
operator’s public log. This process isSCT auditing.
Clients must be involved in SCT auditing, as they are the
onlyparticipantswhoseeSCTs“inthewild.”However,theset
ofSCTsthataclientseesrevealsinformationabouttheclient’s
browsing history: the fact that a client has seen an SCT for
example.com reveals that the client has visitedexample.com.
Thus, to protect its privacy, the client should not reveal which
SCTs it has seen to the log operators or to any other entity.
Google’s recent solutions for SCT auditing [35,89] involve
10

anSCT auditor(runbyGoogle)thatisseparatefromtheclient.
In their model, the auditor maintains the entire set of SCTs
for non-expired certificates from all Certificate Transparency
logs. Every SCT that a client sees for a live website should
appear in the auditor’s set. To determine whether an SCT is
valid,aclientcancheckwhetherit(orreally,itsSHA256hash)
appears in the set of valid SCTs maintained by the auditor:
• If the client’s SCT appears in the auditor’s set, then the log
server that issued the SCT correctly fulfilled its promise.
• If not, the client can report the problematic SCT to the
auditor to investigate further. Prior work shows how this
canbedonewhilekeepingtheSCTinquestionhidden[41].
A privacy-protecting solution for SCT auditing must allow
the client to test whether its SCT appears in the auditor’s set,
withoutrevealing its SCT to the auditor. This is a private set-
membership problem [91]. While on its surface this problem
resembles other applications of PIR in the literature [59,71],
the fact that many clients engage in the protocol with the same
auditor means that we can tolerate false positives. That is, it is
acceptableforaclienttoincorrectlybelievethatanSCTisinthe
auditor’sset,sinceovermanyclientswecanexpectthatmissing
SCTs are eventually identified. To summarize, we require the
following properties, which we state only informally:
• Correctness with false positives.When an honest client
holdingstring 𝜎,chosenindependentlyoftheclient’ssecret
randomness, interacts with an honest auditor holding set𝑆:
– if𝜎∈𝑆, then the client always outputs “valid,” and
– if𝜎∉𝑆, then the client outputs “valid” with probability
at most1/2, over the choice of the client’s randomness.
• Privacyfortheclient. Whenanhonestclientinteractswith
a malicious auditor, the auditor learns nothing about the
client’s private input string𝜎.
We do not require correctness to hold against a malicious
auditor;suchanauditorcouldtriviallylieaboutitssetofSCTs.
Systemparameters. ThereareroughlyfivebillionactiveSCTs
inthewebtoday[35].Roughlysixmillionoftheseareaddedor
removedeachdayascertificateauthoritiesissuecertificatesand
as certificates expire [3]. Google Chrome’s current proposal
for SCT auditing has afalse-positive rateof essentially zero:
when a client audits an SCT, it correctly learns whether the
SCTisvalid.However,Chrome’sproposalhasa detectionrate
of1/10,000:theChromeclientrandomlysamples 0.01%ofthe
SCTsassociatedwithitsTLSconnections,andauditsonlythis
small fraction of all SCTs [2]. This random sampling reduces
the amortized cost of auditing by 10,000×, but also reduces
the chance that any single auditing client catches a cheating
log. Still, across many auditing clients, this randomized SCT
auditing catches—with high probability—widely distributed
invalid SCTs. After 10,000 clients observe an invalid SCT, in
expectation one will audit it and implicate the cheating log.
Existing approaches. Two notable proposals for SCT
auditing—which do not provide cryptographic privacy—are:
Opt-out SCT auditing.Chrome’s current approach [35] has
the client reveal the first 20 bits of the hash of its SCT to the
auditor [1]. The auditor replies with all roughly 1000 SCTs
in its set that match this 20-bit prefix. This method achieves
𝑘-anonymity for𝑘 = 1000, i.e., it leaks that the client visited
one of a set of 1000 sites.
Anonymizingproxy. Theclientcoulduseproxyservers,suchas
in Tor [37], to send its SCT to the auditor anonymously [32];
the auditor could reply with the bit indicating whether the
SCT appears in its set. This mechanism reveals the entire
distributionofclients’SCTstotheauditorandissusceptibleto
timing attacks, which could allow the auditor to deanonymize
particular clients.
7.2 Our approach
We propose a new scheme for SCT auditing that achieves
cryptographic privacy. The deployment is as follows:
1. Auditor: Data-set construction.The auditor prepares an ap-
proximate set-membership data structure holding all SHA256
hashes of all𝑁 active SCTs. This data structure consists of
𝑎= 768arrays, each8𝑁 bits in length, and has false-positive
rate𝜖 = 1/2(Proposition F.1). Then, the auditor runs the PIR
Setuproutineoneachofthese 𝑎 arrays,producing 𝑎 PIRhints.
2. Client: Hint download.The client chooses a secret, random
index𝑖∗←
R
[𝑎] and downloads the𝑖∗-th hint from the auditor,
revealing𝑖∗ to the auditor in the process. Whenever the client
wants to test whether some SCT appears in the auditor’s set,
the client can now read a single bit from the auditor’s𝑖∗-th
array. The probability that a cheating log can trick the client
into accepting an invalid SCT is at most𝜖, the false-positive
rate of the underlying set-membership data structure.
Iftheclientauditsan 𝑓-fractionofallofitsTLSconnections,
thedetectionrateis 𝑓·( 1−𝜖).Inourdeployment,wetake 𝑓 =
1/5,000and 𝜖 = 1/2.Thischoicegivesanoveralldetectionrate
of1/10,000—matchingthatofChrome’scurrentapproach[35].
3.Clientandauditor:SCTlookupviaPIR. Eachtimetheclient
decides to audit an SCT, the client computes the bit of the
auditor’s𝑖∗-th array that it needs to check to verify the SCT’s
validity. The client reads this bit privately by running the PIR
protocol’s online phase with the auditor, over the𝑖∗-th array.
Inthisapproach,theclientreusesthesamesecretindex 𝑖∗for
multipleSCTlookups.Asaresult,theeventsthataclientfailsto
detectinvalidSCT 𝐴andinvalidSCT 𝐵arecorrelated,whereas
inChrometodaytheseeventsareindependent.However,inour
approach, the probability that a client catches thefirstinvalid
SCT that it looks up remains1−𝜖 = 1/2. As such, the client
will catchat least oneinvalid SCT with probability 1/10,000
and will thus implicate a cheating log with these odds. Any
log that cheats more than 10,000 clients will be caught in
expectation.
Databaseupdates. Inourproposal,theclientholdsaPIRhint
thatdependsontheauditor’ssetofactiveSCTs.Wheneverthis
11

set changes, which happens continuously as certificates are
issued and expire, the auditor must update its set-membership
data structure. Without extra engineering, the client would
have to download a fresh PIR hint from the auditor each time.
Our approach has the client download a fresh hint only
periodically—once per month, for example. The auditor speci-
fies the range ofcertificate issue datesthat each hint covers.
When the client decides to audit an SCT, it checks whether its
current hint covers the issue date of the SCT in question. If so,
the client tests the SCT’s validity; if not, the client caches the
SCT so as to test its validity the next time it downloads a hint.
In this way, the client eventually audits its full random sample
of SCTs, but reuses each hint for multiple SCT lookups. The
servermustnowstoremultipleversionsofthedatabase,which
is relatively inexpensive; in a large-scale deployment, one or
more physical servers could hold each version in memory.
8 Evaluation
Implementation. We implement SimplePIR in fewer than
1,200 lines of Go code, along with 200 lines of C, and Dou-
blePIR in 210 additional lines of Go code. Our code does not
rely on any external libraries and is published under the MIT
open-source license atgithub.com/ahenzinger/simplepir.
We give sample code for SimplePIR in Appendix G.
We use the appropriate data types to natively support op-
erations over Z𝑞 (e.g., uint32 for 𝑞 = 232). We store the
database in memory in packed form and decompress it into
Z𝑝 elements on-the-fly, as otherwise theAnswer routine is
memory-bandwidth-bound. In DoublePIR, we represent the
database as a rectangular (rather than square) matrix, so that
the first level of PIR dominates the computation.
We run all experiments using a single thread of execution,
on an AWSc5n.metal instance running Ubuntu 22.04. To
collect the throughput numbers for tables, we run each scheme
five times and report the average. All standard deviations in
throughput are smaller than 10% of the throughput measured.
8.1 Microbenchmarks
Throughput. We first measure the maximal throughput of
each PIR scheme, on the database dimensions that suit it best.
InTable1,wereportthethroughputmeasuredforeachscheme,
on a database roughly 1 GB in size, where we take the entry
sizetobethatforwhichthehighestthroughputwasreportedin
the corresponding paper (or in a related paper, if it is not made
explicit).TheseentrysizesappearinTable10.Weconfirmthat
these throughputs are indeed the best achievable by measuring
each scheme’s throughput on each entry size in Figure 7.
SimplePIRandDoublePIRachievethroughputsof10.0GB/s
and 7.4 GB/s respectively, which is roughly8×faster than the
bestpriorsingle-serverPIRschemedesignedforthestreaming
setting (SpiralStreamPack) and30×faster than the best prior
single-server PIR scheme designed for databases with short
100 KB1 MB10 MB
Communication
(amortized over 100 queries)
125
250
500
1000
2000
4000
8000Throughput (MB/s)
SimplePIR
DoublePIR
SealPIR
FastPIR
OnionPIR
Spiral
SpiralPack
SpiralStream
SpiralStreamPack
Better
Figure 6: Throughput vs. per-query communication, on a 1 GB
database. For each PIR scheme, we display the communication and
the corresponding throughput for two choices of entry size: one that
maximizes throughput, and another that minimizes communication.
(Forschemesdisplayedonlyonce,bothentrysizesarethesame.)The
communication cost is the total (i.e., offline and online) communica-
tion,amortizedover100queries.Wehighlightpriorworkin yellow .
entries (Spiral). SimplePIR and DoublePIR exceed theper-
serverthroughput1ofsomepriortwo-serverPIRschemes:two-
server PIR from DPFs [59] has a throughput of 5.3 GB/s/core.
Finally, we benchmark the throughput of performing only
XORs over a database to provide a hard upper bound on the
speedoflinear-work,two-serverPIR[13,27].Wheneachserver
performs a linear scan of XORs over the database, two-server
PIR’sthroughputis5.9GB/s/core.Wheneachserverperforms
a linear scan of XORs overa random halfof the database, two-
server PIR’s throughput is 11.5 GB/s/core—but this requires a
non-constant-time implementation (see discussion in Table 1).
Communication. In Figure 7, we give each scheme’s total
communication, amortized over 100 queries, for increasing
entry sizes. On databases with short entries, DoublePIR’s
amortized communication is comparable to that of the most
communication-efficientschemes(Spiral,SpiralPack,SealPIR,
and OnionPIR). With larger entries, DoublePIR’s ammortized
communication costs increase, as the client must download
many hints. The two schemes with the closest throughput to
ours (SpiralStream and SpiralStreamPack), as well as Fast-
PIR, have much larger amortized communication than both
DoublePIR and SimplePIR on entry sizes less than a kilobit.
Throughput vs. communication trade-off. We summa-
rize these findings in Figure 6, which displays the through-
put/communication trade-off achieved by each PIR scheme.
Concretely, we run each scheme on a database of233 bits with
increasingentrysizes(asalsodoneinFigure7).Then,foreach
scheme, we display the per-query communication (amortized
over 100 queries) and the corresponding throughput for two
1In computing theper-serverthroughput of two-server PIR (from DPFs and
from XOR), we divide the measured throughput by two.
12

1 10 100 1000 10000
Entry size (in bits)
100 KB
1 MB
10 MB
100 MB
1 GB
10 GB
Communication
(amortized over 100 queries)
SimplePIR
DoublePIR
SealPIR
FastPIR
OnionPIR
SpiralSpiralPack
SpiralStream
SpiralStreamPack
1 10 100 1000 10000
Entry size (in bits)
10
100
1000
10000Throughput (MB/s)
SimplePIR
DoublePIR
SealPIR
FastPIR
OnionPIR
Spiral
SpiralPack
SpiralStream
SpiralStreamPack
Figure 7: Throughput
and per-query commu-
nication for each PIR
scheme, on a 1 GB
database with entries
of increasing size. The
per-query communica-
tion cost is the total
(i.e.,offlineandonline)
per-query communica-
tion, amortized over
100 queries.
Communication
Offline (MB) Online (KB) Throughput
Up.♣Down.♠ Up. Down. (MB/s)
SealPIR 5 0 91 181 97
FastPIR 0.06 0 33000 64 217
OnionPIR 5 0 256 128 60
Spiral 15 0 14 20 259
SpiralPack 19 0 14 20 260
SpiralStream 0.34 0 15000 20 485
SpiralStreamPack 15 0 29000 99 1,370 ★
SimplePIR(§4) 0 121 121 121 10,138
DoublePIR(§5) 0 16 313 32 7,622
Table8: PIRschemeperformanceonadatabaseof 233×1-bitentries.
We highlight ingreen cells that are within 5× of the best, and inred
cells that are within 5×of the worst, in their respective columns. (We
leave uncolored cells that are within5× of the bestand worst.) We
automatically “re-balance” schemes without an automatic parameter
selection tool (SealPIR, FastPIR, and OnionPIR), by executing them
on a database of233/𝑑 entries, each of size𝑑, where𝑑 is the closest
valid power-of-2 to the scheme’s “optimal” entry size (see Table 10).
♣The offline upload is equal to the per-client server storage.♠The
offline download is equal to the client storage.★The throughput here
isslightlyhigherthaninTable1duetovarianceinthemeasurements.
choices of the entry size: one that maximizes the through-
put, and another that minimizes the communication. Figure 6
demonstratesthatournewPIRschemesachieveanovelpointin
thedesignspace:SimplePIRandDoublePIRhavesubstantially
higher throughput than all prior single-server PIR schemes;
DoublePIR further has a per-query communication cost that is
competitive with the most communication-efficient schemes.
Comparison on a database of233× 1-bit entries.In Table 8,
we give a fine-grained comparison of the performance of each
scheme on a database relevant to our application, consisting
of 233 1-bit entries. On this database, SimplePIR and Dou-
blePIR again achieve much higher throughput than all other
schemes (9.9 GB/s and 7.4 GB/s respectively). SimplePIR has
high offline download and thus also client-side storage costs.
However, DoublePIR’s offline download is comparable to the
offline communication of other PIR schemes, and its online
1 4 16 64 2561024
Num. queries per batch
10
100
1000Throughput (GB/s)
SimplePIR
DoublePIR
Figure 9: Effective PIR
throughput (database size
× queries per second),
withincreasingbatchsizes
and a fixed-size hint, on
a database consisting of
233×1-bit entries. The
shading displays the stan-
dard deviation.
communication is on the order of kilobytes.
Foreachscheme,weadditionallycomputeitscostperquery,
when the client makes 100 queries, using the AWS costs
for compute ($1.5· 10−5/core-second) and data transfer out
of Amazon EC2 ($0.09/GB). SimplePIR’s per-query cost is
$1· 10−4, while DoublePIR and the cheapest scheme from
related work (SpiralStreamPack) each achieve a per-query cost
of$ 2· 10−5.Wenote,however,thatSpiralStreamPackrequires
megabytes of online upload, which is not reflected in its per-
query cost, as AWS only charges for outgoing communication.
Batching queries.Finally, we evaluate how SimplePIR and
DoublePIR’seffectivethroughputscaleswhentheclientmakes
a batch of queries for𝑘 records at once, assuming the client
only needs to recover a constant fraction of the𝑘 records. For
increasing values of𝑘, we compute the expected number of
“successful” queries (i.e., the expected number of queries that
fall into a distinct database chunk, as discussed in Section 4.3)
and we derive the expected “successful” throughput—that is,
the throughput measuredwhen the serveranswers thatnumber
of queries at once, with a single pass over the database.
Figure9showsthatSimplePIRandDoublePIR’sthroughput
increases when the client makes a batch of queries at once.
SimplePIR’s throughput scales linearly, achieving a value of
over 100 GB/s on batch size𝑘≥ 16and 1000 GB/s on batch
size𝑘≥ 256. DoublePIR achieves a throughput over 50 GB/s
for𝑘≥ 32; when𝑘≥ 256, the throughput plateaus at roughly
100 GB/s, as the second level of PIR becomes a bottleneck.
InAppendixH,wegiveadditionalbenchmarksthatmeasure
the server preprocessing time, the client time, and the non-
amortizedcommunicationofournewPIRschemes,alongwith
13

tables containing the data displayed in Figures 6, 7 and 9.
8.2 Certificate Transparency benchmark
WeproposeusingDoublePIRfortheSCTauditingapplication.
Withournewdatastructureforprivatesetmembership,thetask
ofSCTauditingrequiresasingleroundofPIRoveradatabase
with 1-bit entries. For such a database, our microbenchmarks
in Section 8.1 show that DoublePIR achieves both high server
throughput and small client storage and communication. SCT
auditing occurs in the background, and is not on the critical
path to web browsing. Thus, while using PIR may increase the
latency of auditing, we believe this is a desirable trade-off in
exchangeforcryptographicprivacy,aslongasthecomputation
remains modest and the communication remains comparable.
To benchmark DoublePIR in this application context, we
evaluate the scheme on a database consisting of236× 1-bit
entries, which is the size of a Bloom filter in our approximate
set membership data structure when we instantiate it with all 5
billion active SCTs. (In our evaluation, each entry is a random
bit.) On this database size, we measure that DoublePIR has
a “hint” of size 16 MB, an online upload of 724 KB, and
an online download of 32 KB. The server can answer each
query in fewer than 1.3 core-seconds (and this work is fully
parallelizable).
Asourclientmustauditoneinevery5,000TLSconnections,
our proposal for SCT auditing then requires: (1) 16 MB of
client storage and download every month (to keep the client
hint), and (2) per TLS connection, an amortized overhead
of 0.0003 core-seconds of server compute and 150 bytes of
communication.UsingtheAWScostsforcompute($ 1.5· 10−5
per core second) and data transfer ($0.09 per outgoing GB),
for each client, this amounts to a fixed cost of $0.001 per
month, along with $4· 10−9 per TLS connection. For a typical
client making104 TLS connections per week [4], we expect
this cost to be roughly $0.02 per year. Since (after sampling
its TLS connections) a typical client makes only few queries
to the auditor using each month’s hint, we can reduce the
client’s storage to less than 150 KB using the optimization
from Appendix E.3.
By comparison, Chrome’s SCT auditing scheme [35] pro-
vides only𝑘-anonymity for𝑘 =1,000: the server learns that a
client visited one of a set of 1,000 domains. Auditing incurs
an amortized overhead of 24 B of communication per con-
nection2, negligible server computation, and no client storage
(unless the client caches popular SCTs). Again assuming a
client making104 TLS connections per week [4], we expect
this scheme to cost roughly $0.001/client/year. Our approach
using DoublePIR incurs23× more communication to achieve
the goal of cryptographic privacy.
2The communication may be smaller in practice as the total number of SCTs
and the number of SCTs matching each prefix varies.
9 Conclusion
We show that the per-core throughput of single-server PIR
can approach the memory bandwidth of the machine and the
performanceoftwo-serverPIR.Twoexcitingdirectionsremain
open:oneistoreduceourschemes’communication;anotheris
tocombineourideaswiththoseof sublinear-timePIR[30,31]
toreducethecomputationbeyondthelinear-server-timebarrier.
Acknowledgements.We thank Martin Albrecht for answering
questionsaboutLWEhardnessestimates,VadimLyubashevsky
for advice on discrete gaussian sampling, and Adam Belay
and Zhenyuan Ruan for discussions about AVX performance.
We are grateful to Anish Athalye, Derek Leung, and Ryan
Lehmkuhl for reviewing a draft of this work, and to Dima
Kogan, David Wu, Jean-Philippe Bossuat, Samir Menon, Alex
Davidson, Sofía Celi, Emily Stark, Kevin Yeo, and Joe DeBla-
sioforhelpfulconversationsandfeedback.WethankSebastian
Angelforconstructivecommentsonthediscussionofmalicious
security in an earlier version of this work, and for suggestions
on how to improve the presentation. We thank Yuval Ishai and
MatanHamilisfordiscussinghowbesttocompareagainsttwo-
server PIR schemes. Yuval also helpfully suggested the “XOR
PIR fast” construction discussed in Table 1. This work was
supported in part by the National Science Foundation (Award
CNS-2054869), a gift from Google, a Facebook Research
Award, and MIT’s Fintech@CSAIL Initiative. Alexandra Hen-
zinger was supported by the National Science Foundation
Graduate Research Fellowship under Grant No. 2141064 and
an EECS Great Educators Fellowship. Matthew M. Hong was
funded by NIH R01 HG010959. Vinod Vaikuntanathan was
supported by DARPA under Agreement No. HR00112020023,
NSF CNS-2154149, MIT-IBM Watson AI, Analog Devices, a
MicrosoftTrustworthyAIgrantandaThorntonFamilyFaculty
Research Innovation Fellowship. Any opinions, findings and
conclusionsorrecommendationsexpressedinthismaterialare
those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views
of the United States Government or DARPA.
References
[1] Chrome SCT Auditing Hash Prefix Length.
https://source.chromium.org/chromium/
chromium/src/+/main:services/network/sct_
auditing/sct_auditing_reporter.cc;l=39;drc=
ab2806d582b36d2da8d2178aca83031ab99ed5da. Ac-
cessed 4 Nov 2022.
[2] Chrome SCT Auditing Sampling Rate. https:
//source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/
main:chrome/common/chrome_features.cc;l=1007;
drc=50d8da971873550eb909b9c177cf6188e81ff4c3.
Accessed 4 Nov 2022.
[3] Merkle town.https://merkle.town/.
14

[4] Mozilla Telemetry Portal, Measurement Dash-
board. https://telemetry.mozilla.org/new-
pipeline/dist.html#!cumulative=0&end_date=
2022-07-17&include _spill=0&keys=__none__!__
none__!__none__&max_channel_version=nightly%
252F104&measure=HTTP_TRANSACTION_IS_SSL&min_
channel_version=nightly%252F104&processType=
*&product=Firefox&sanitize=1&sort_by_value=
0&sort_keys=submissions&start_date=2022-06-
27&table=1&trim=1&use_submission_date=0. Ac-
cessed 19 July 2022.
[5] Carlos Aguilar-Melchor, Joris Barrier, Laurent Fousse,
and Marc-Olivier Killijian. XPIR: Private information
retrieval for everyone.PoPETs, 2016.
[6] Ishtiyaque Ahmad, Yuntian Yang, Divyakant Agrawal,
Amr El Abbadi, and Trinabh Gupta. Addra: Metadata-
private voice communication over fully untrusted infras-
tructure. InOSDI, 2021.
[7] Martin Albrecht, Rachel Player, and Sam Scott. On the
concrete hardness of learning with errors. InJournal of
Mathematical Cryptology, 2015.
[8] Asra Ali, Tancrède Lepoint, Sarvar Patel, Mariana
Raykova, Phillipp Schoppmann, Karn Seth, and Kevin
Yeo. Communication–Computation trade-offs in PIR. In
USENIX Security, 2021.
[9] Sebastian Angel, Hao Chen, Kim Laine, and Srinath
Setty. PIR with compressed queries and amortized query
processing. InS&P, 2018.
[10] Sebastian Angel and Srinath Setty. Unobservable com-
munication over fully untrusted infrastructure. InOSDI,
2016.
[11] Michael Backes, Aniket Kate, Matteo Maffei, and Kim
Pecina. ObliviAd: provably secure and practical online
behavioral advertising. InS&P, 2012.
[12] W. Banaszczyk. Inequalities for convex bodies and polar
reciprocal lattices in R𝑛. Discrete & computational
geometry, 1995.
[13] Amos Beimel, Yuval Ishai, and Tal Malkin. Reducing
the servers’ computation in private information retrieval:
PIR with preprocessing.J. Cryptol., 2004.
[14] Mihir Bellare and Phillip Rogaway. Random oracles are
practical: A paradigm for designing efficient protocols.
In CCS, 1993.
[15] Burton H Bloom. Space/time trade-offs in hash coding
with allowable errors. Communications of the ACM,
1970.
[16] Elette Boyle, Niv Gilboa, and Yuval Ishai. Function
secret sharing: Improvements and extensions. InCCS,
2016.
[17] EletteBoyle,YuvalIshai,RafaelPass,andMaryWootters.
Can we access a database both locally and privately? In
TCC, 2017.
[18] EletteBoyle,LisaKohl,andPeterScholl. Homomorphic
secretsharingfromlatticeswithoutfhe. In EUROCRYPT,
2019.
[19] ZvikaBrakerski. Fullyhomomorphicencryptionwithout
modulus switching from classical GapSVP. InCRYPTO,
2012.
[20] ZvikaBrakerski,NicoDöttling,SanjamGarg,andGiulio
Malavolta. Leveraging linear decryption: Rate-1 fully-
homomorphicencryptionandtime-lockpuzzles. In TCC,
2019.
[21] Christian Cachin, Silvio Micali, and Markus Stadler.
Computationally private information retrieval with poly-
logarithmic communication. InEUROCRYPT, 1999.
[22] Ran Canetti, Justin Holmgren, and Silas Richelson. To-
wards doubly efficient private information retrieval. In
TCC, 2017.
[23] Yan-Cheng Chang. Single database private information
retrieval with logarithmic communication. InACISP,
2004.
[24] Melissa Chase, Sanjam Garg, Mohammad Hajiabadi,
Jialin Li, and Peihan Miao. Amortizing rate-1 OT and
applications to PIR and PSI. InTCC, 2021.
[25] Massimo Chenal and Qiang Tang. On key recovery at-
tacksagainstexistingsomewhathomomorphicencryption
schemes. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2014/535,
2014.
[26] Benny Chor, Niv Gilboa, and Moni Naor. Private infor-
mationretrievalbykeywords. CryptologyePrintArchive,
Report 1998/003, 1998.
[27] Benny Chor, Oded Goldreich, Eyal Kushilevitz, and
Madhu Sudan. Private information retrieval. InFOCS,
1995.
[28] David Clayton, Christopher Patton, and Thomas Shrimp-
ton. Probabilistic data structures in adversarial environ-
ments. InCCS, 2019.
[29] Don Coppersmith and Shmuel Winograd. Matrix multi-
plication via arithmetic progressions. InSTOC, 1987.
[30] HenryCorrigan-Gibbs,AlexandraHenzinger,andDmitry
Kogan. Single-server private information retrieval with
sublinear amortized time. InEUROCRYPT, 2022.
15

[31] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs and Dmitry Kogan. Private infor-
mation retrieval with sublinear online time. InEURO-
CRYPT, 2020.
[32] Rasmus Dahlberg, Tobias Pulls, Tom Ritter, and
Paul Syverson. Privacy-preserving and incrementally-
deployable support for Certificate Transparency in Tor.
PoPETS, 2021.
[33] IvanDamgårdandMadsJurik. Ageneralisation,asimpli-
fication and some applications of Paillier’s probabilistic
public-key system. InPKC, 2001.
[34] Alex Davidson, Gonçalo Pestana, and Sofía Celi.
Frodopir:Simple,scalable,single-serverprivateinforma-
tionretrieval.CryptologyePrintArchive,Paper2022/981,
2022.
[35] Joe DeBlasio. Opt-out SCT auditing in Chrome.
https://docs.google.com/document/d/16G-
Q7iN3kB46GSW5b-sfH5MO3nKSYyEb77YsM7TMZGE/edit.
[36] PeterC.DillingerandStefanWalzer. Ribbonfilter:practi-
callysmallerthanbloomandxor. CoRR,abs/2103.02515,
2021.
[37] Roger Dingledine, Nick Mathewson, and Paul Syverson.
Tor: The Second-Generation onion router. InUSENIX
Security, 2004.
[38] Yevgeniy Dodis, Shai Halevi, Ron D. Rothblum, and
Daniel Wichs. Spooky encryption and its applications.
In CRYPTO, 2016.
[39] Nico Döttling, Sanjam Garg, Yuval Ishai, Giulio Mala-
volta, Tamer Mour, and Rafail Ostrovsky. Trapdoor hash
functions and their applications. InCRYPTO, 2019.
[40] Taher ElGamal. A public key cryptosystem and a signa-
ture scheme based on discrete logarithms.IEEE transac-
tions on information theory, 1985.
[41] Saba Eskandarian, Eran Messeri, Joseph Bonneau, and
Dan Boneh. Certificate Transparency with privacy. In
PETS, 2017.
[42] Junfeng Fan and Frederik Vercauteren. Somewhat prac-
tical fully homomorphic encryption. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Paper 2012/144, 2012.
[43] Prastudy Fauzi, Martha Norberg Hovd, and Håvard Rad-
dum. A practical adaptive key recovery attack on the
LGM (GSW-like) cryptosystem. InPQCrypto, 2021.
[44] Prastudy Fauzi, Martha Norberg Hovd, and Håvard Rad-
dum. On the IND-CCA1 security of FHE schemes.
Cryptography, 2022.
[45] Mia Filić, Kenneth G. Paterson, Anupama Unnikrishnan,
andFernandoVirdia.Adversarialcorrectnessandprivacy
for probabilistic data structures.CCS, 2022.
[46] Michael J. Freedman, Kobbi Nissim, and Benny Pinkas.
Efficientprivatematchingandsetintersection. In EURO-
CRYPT, 2004.
[47] CraigGentry. Fullyhomomorphicencryptionusingideal
lattices. InSTOC, 2009.
[48] Craig Gentry and Shai Halevi. Compressible FHE with
applications to PIR. InTCC, 2019.
[49] Craig Gentry and Zulfikar Ramzan. Single-database pri-
vate information retrieval with constant communication
rate. InICALP, 2005.
[50] Niv Gilboa and Yuval Ishai. Distributed point functions
and their applications. InEUROCRYPT, 2014.
[51] Shafi Goldwasser and Silvio Micali. Probabilistic en-
cryption. Journal of Computer and System Sciences,
1984.
[52] Google.SafeBrowsingAPIs(v4). https://developers.
google.com/safe-browsing/v4.
[53] Thomas Mueller Graf and Daniel Lemire. Xor filters:
Faster and smaller than bloom and cuckoo filters.ACM
J. Exp. Algorithmics, 2020.
[54] MatthewGreen,WatsonLadd,andIanMiers. Aprotocol
for privately reporting ad impressions at scale. InCCS,
2016.
[55] Trinabh Gupta, Natacha Crooks, Whitney Mulhern, Sri-
nathSetty,LorenzoAlvisi,andMichaelWalfish. Scalable
and private media consumption with Popcorn. InNSDI,
2016.
[56] Daniel Günther, Maurice Heymann, Benny Pinkas, and
Thomas Schneider. GPU-accelerated PIR with Client-
Independent preprocessing for Large-Scale applications.
In Usenix Security, 2022.
[57] YuvalIshai,EyalKushilevitz,RafailOstrovsky,andAmit
Sahai. Batchcodesandtheirapplications. In STOC,2004.
[58] Ari Juels. Targeted advertising ... and privacy too. In
CT-RSA, 2001.
[59] DanielKales,OlamideOmolola,andSebastianRamacher.
Revisiting user privacy for certificate transparency. In
EuroS&P, 2019.
[60] Daniel Kales, Christian Rechberger, Thomas Schneider,
Matthias Senker, and Christian Weinert. Mobile private
contact discovery at scale. InUSENIX Security, 2019.
16

[61] DmitryKoganandHenryCorrigan-Gibbs. Privateblock-
list lookups with Checklist. InUSENIX Security, 2021.
[62] Eyal Kushilevitz and Rafail Ostrovsky. Replication is
not needed: Single database, computationally-private
information retrieval. InFOCS, 1997.
[63] Ben Laurie. Certificate transparency.Communications
of the ACM, 2014.
[64] Ben Laurie, Adam Langley, and Emilia Kasper. Certifi-
cate transparency. RFC 6962, 2013.
[65] FrançoisLeGall.Fasteralgorithmsforrectangularmatrix
multiplication. InFOCS, 2012.
[66] Lucy Li, Bijeeta Pal, Junade Ali, Nick Sullivan, Rahul
Chatterjee, and Thomas Ristenpart. Protocols for check-
ing compromised credentials. InCCS, 2019.
[67] Jilan Lin, Ling Liang, Zheng Qu, Ishtiyaque Ahmad, Liu
Liu, Fengbin Tu, Trinabh Gupta, Yufei Ding, and Yuan
Xie. INSPIRE: In-storage private information retrieval
via protocol and architecture co-design. InISCA, 2022.
[68] Richard Lindner and Chris Peikert. Better key sizes (and
attacks) for LWE-based encryption. InCT-RSA, 2011.
[69] Helger Lipmaa. An oblivious transfer protocol with log-
squared communication. InInternational Conference on
Information Security, 2005.
[70] JakeLoftus,AlexanderMay,NigelP.Smart,andFrederik
Vercauteren. On CCA-secure somewhat homomorphic
encryption. InSelected Areas in Cryptography, 2012.
[71] Wouter Lueks and Ian Goldberg. Sublinear scaling for
multi-client private information retrieval. InInterna-
tional Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data
Security, 2015.
[72] VadimLyubashevsky,ChrisPeikert,andOdedRegev. On
ideallatticesandlearningwitherrorsoverrings. Journal
of the ACM, 2013.
[73] Yiping Ma, Ke Zhong, Tal Rabin, and Sebastian Angel.
Incremental offline/online PIR. In USENIX Security,
2022.
[74] Sarah Meiklejohn, Joe DeBlasio, Devon O’Brien, Chris
Thompson, Kevin Yeo, and Emily Stark. SoK: SCT
auditing in Certificate Transparency. InPETS, 2022.
[75] Marcela S. Melara, Aaron Blankstein, Joseph Bonneau,
Edward W. Felten, and Michael J. Freedman. CONIKS:
Bringing key transparency to end users. InUSENIX
Security, 2015.
[76] Samir Jordan Menon and David J. Wu. Spiral: Fast,
high-rate single-server PIR via FHE composition. In
S&P, 2022.
[77] Muhammad Haris Mughees, Hao Chen, and Ling Ren.
OnionPIR: Response efficient single-server PIR. InCCS,
2021.
[78] MoniNaorandEylonYogev. Bloomfiltersinadversarial
environments. InCRYPTO, 2015.
[79] Tatsuaki Okamoto and Shigenori Uchiyama. A new
public-key cryptosystem as secure as factoring. InEU-
ROCRYPT, 1998.
[80] Rafail Ostrovsky and William E Skeith. A survey of
single-database private information retrieval: Techniques
and applications. InPKC, 2007.
[81] Pascal Paillier. Public-key cryptosystems based on com-
positedegreeresiduosityclasses. In EUROCRYPT,1999.
[82] Bijeeta Pal, Mazharul Islam, Thomas Ristenpart, and
Rahul Chatterjee. Might I Get Pwned: A second gen-
eration password breach alerting service. InUSENIX
Security, 2022.
[83] Chris Peikert, Vinod Vaikuntanathan, and Brent Waters.
A framework for efficient and composable oblivious
transfer. InCRYPTO, 2008.
[84] Giuseppe Persiano and Kevin Yeo. Limits of preprocess-
ing for single-server PIR. InSODA, 2022.
[85] Joel Reardon, Jeffrey Pound, and Ian Goldberg.
Relational-complete private information retrieval. Tech-
nical report, University of Waterloo, CACR, 2007.
[86] Oded Regev. On lattices, learning with errors, random
linear codes, and cryptography.Journal of the ACM,
2009.
[87] Sacha Servan-Schreiber, Kyle Hogan, and Srinivas De-
vadas. AdVeil: A private targeted-advertising ecosystem.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/1032, 2021.
[88] Elaine Shi, Waqar Aqeel, Balakrishnan Chandrasekaran,
and Bruce Maggs. Puncturable pseudorandom sets and
private information retrieval with near-optimal online
bandwidth and time. InCRYPTO, 2021.
[89] Emily Stark and Chris Thompson. Opt-in SCT audit-
ing, 2020. https://docs.google.com/document/d/
1G1Jy8LJgSqJ-B673GnTYIG4b7XRw2ZLtvvSlrqFcl4A/
edit.
[90] Volker Strassen. Gaussian elimination is not optimal.
Numerische mathematik, 1969.
17

[91] Kurt Thomas, Jennifer Pullman, Kevin Yeo, Ananth
Raghunathan, Patrick Gage Kelley, Luca Invernizzi, Bor-
bala Benko, Tadek Pietraszek, Sarvar Patel, Dan Boneh,
and Elie Bursztein. Protecting accounts from creden-
tial stuffing with password breach alerting. InUSENIX
Security, 2019.
[92] Vish Viswanathan, Karthik Kumar, Thomas
Willhalm, Blazej Filipiak Patrick Lu, and Sri
Sakthivelu. Intel Memory Latency Checker.
https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/
developer/articles/tool/intelr-memory-latency-
checker.html.
[93] Frank Wang, Catherine Yun, Shafi Goldwasser, Vinod
Vaikuntanathan, and Matei Zaharia. Splinter: Practical
private queries on public data. InNSDI, 2017.
[94] Ke Coby Wang and Michael K Reiter. Detecting stuffing
of a user’s credentials at her own accounts. InUSENIX
Security, 2020.
[95] Virginia Vassilevska Williams. Multiplying matrices
faster than Coppersmith-Winograd. InSTOC, 2012.
[96] Zhenfei Zhang, Thomas Plantard, and Willy Susilo. On
the CCA-1 security of somewhat homomorphic encryp-
tion over the integers. In Mark D. Ryan, Ben Smyth, and
Guilin Wang, editors,Information Security Practice and
Experience, 2012.
[97] Mingxun Zhou, Wei-Kai Lin, Yiannis Tselekounis, and
Elaine Shi. Optimal single-server private information
retrieval. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/609,
2022.
A Additional details on related work
For each PIR scheme from related work, we take its “optimal”
entry size to be that for which the highest throughput was
reportedinthecorrespondingpaper(or,ifomitted,inarelated
paper). For each of our new PIR schemes (SimplePIR and
DoublePIR), we compute its “optimal” entry size by executing
theschemeonentriesofincreasingsize,andselectingtheentry
size that yields the highest throughput. In Table 10, we display
these entry sizes, along with each PIR scheme’s measured
throughput on a database roughly 1 GB in size, with entries of
the optimal size.
B Client-state-recovery attacks on
some existing PIR schemes
We demonstrate that several recent PIR schemes, including
SealPIRanditsdescendants[6,8,9,76,77],areinsecureagainst
acertaintypeofactiveattackthatenablestheservertorecover
Database size Max. achievable
𝑁 × 𝑑 throughput/core
Prior two-server PIR
DPF PIR [59] 225 32 B 5,381 MB/s∗
XOR PIR 233 1 bit 6,067 MB/s∗
XOR PIR fast 233 1 bit 11,797 MB/s∗
Prior single-server PIR
SealPIR [9] 222 288B 97MB/s
MulPIR [8] 105 40 KB 69MB/s†
FastPIR [6] 220 1024 B 215MB/s
OnionPIR [77] 215 30 KB 104MB/s
Spiral [76] 214 100KB 353MB/s
SpiralPack [76] 215 30 KB 303MB/s
SpiralStream [76] 215 30 KB 518MB/s
SpiralStreamPack [76] 215 30 KB 1,314 MB/s
FrodoPIR [34] 220 1 KB 1,256 MB/s
This work (single-server PIR)
SimplePIR 220 1 KB 10,305 MB/s
DoublePIR 233 1 bit 7,622 MB/s
Table 10: Maximal throughput measured for each PIR scheme, on
databases of size roughly 1 GB, consisting of𝑁 entries each of size
𝑑. The entry sizes,𝑑, are those for which the highest throughput was
reported in the corresponding paper.∗The throughput is normalized
bythenumberofservers,i.e.,dividedbytwofor2-serverPIRschemes.
†We estimate MulPIR’s throughput from the measurements given in
the paper, as no implementation is publicly available at this date.
aclient’slong-term,secretstate.Aftersuchanattack,theserver
can learn the contents of all of the client’s PIR queries—even
the ones madebeforethe attacker compromised the server. In
contrast, our PIR schemes are not vulnerable to this type of
attack (see Remark 3.2) and thus provide a form of forward
secrecy (Definition B.1).
Fully reasoning about the security of single-server PIR
schemes under active attack is nuanced and beyond the scope
of this paper. We point out this active attack to highlight the
fact that PIR schemes with secret long-term client state can
carry additional security risks that our schemes do not.
The active attack applies to schemes in which the client
holds and uses a persistent state across many queries. The
state is a secret key for a homomorphic-encryption scheme.
In particular, such schemes have the following syntax: first,
the client runs a setup algorithm, which we callSetup𝑐. In
contrast, in our new PIR schemes, it is the server who runs the
setup algorithm. TheSetup𝑐 algorithm generates two pieces
of information:
1. a public hint,𝜎𝑠, that the client transmits to the server, and
2. a private hint,𝜎𝑐, that the client keeps to itself.
Both 𝜎𝑠 and 𝜎𝑐 are re-used (by the server and the client
respectively) across many queries: each time the client
wants to query for some index𝑗 ∈ [𝑁], the client runs
Query(𝜎𝑐,𝑗) → (st, qu) and sends qu to the server. The
server runsAnswer(db,𝜎𝑠, qu)→ ans and sendsans to the
18

client. Finally, the client runsRecover(st,𝜎𝑐, ans)→ 𝑑 to
recover the database record of interest. As we will show in
the remainder of this section, this syntax can be problematic
as it lends itself to active attacks in which a malicious server
recovers the client’s private, persistent state𝜎𝑐.
We note that the reason why SealPIR and related schemes
reuse a persistent, secret client state over many queries is to
saveoncommunication.Intheseschemes, 𝜎𝑐 holdstheclient’s
secret key for a homomorphic encryption scheme, while𝜎𝑠
holds some “key-switching hints” associated with this key.
The server uses these “key-switching hints” to perform query
compression [9] or response packing [6].
DefinitionB.1 (Forwardsecrecyagainstactiveattacks) . Given
a database size𝑁∈ N, a number of queries𝑄∈ N, and a
PIR scheme(Setup𝑐, Query, Answer, Recover), consider the
following experiment between a challenger and an adversary,
1. The challenger computes(𝜎𝑠,𝜎𝑐) ← Setup𝑐(1𝜆) and
sends𝜎𝑠 to the adversary.
2. The adversary sends𝑖0,𝑖 1∈[ 𝑁] to the challenger.
3. The challenger runsQuery(𝜎𝑐,𝑖𝑏)→( _, qu), and sends
the queryqu to the adversary.
4. For𝑞∈{ 1,··· ,𝑄}:
• The adversary chooses index𝑗𝑞∈[ 𝑁] and sends it to
the challenger.
• The challenger runsQuery(𝜎𝑐,𝑗 𝑞)→( st𝑞, qu𝑞) and
sends the queryqu𝑞 to the adversary.
• The adversary computes some (potentially malformed)
ans′
𝑞 and sends it to the challenger.
• The challenger runsRecover(st𝑞,𝜎𝑐, ans′
𝑞)→ 𝑑 and
sendsittotheadversary.(Notethat 𝑑 couldbethefailure
symbol,⊥, if theRecover algorithm fails onans′
𝑞.)
5. The adversary outputs a guess˜𝑏∈{0, 1}.
The PIR scheme satisfies(𝑇,𝜖)-forward secrecy against
activeattacks for𝑄 queriesif,forall 𝑁∈ Nandalladversaries
A running in time at most𝑇 and making up to𝑄 queries in
the above experiment, it holds that
|Pr[𝑊0]− Pr[𝑊1]|≤𝜖,
where𝑊𝑏 denotes the event thatAoutputs “1” in Experiment
𝑏, for𝑏∈{ 0, 1}.
Active attacks on some stateful PIR schemes.Existing PIR
schemes, which let the client reuse a secret key for homomor-
phic encryption indefinitely, do not provide forward secrecy
against active attacks because their underlying homomorphic
encryption schemes are not CCA1-secure [25,43,44,70,96].
In the remainder of this section, we show that there exist
attacks that, with polynomially many PIR queries, recover
the entire client state. For instance, consider SealPIR with
𝑑 = 1 (i.e., no recursion) and recall that the scheme uses
BFV encryption [19,42], where the secret keys are ring ele-
ments𝑠=𝑠0+𝑠1𝑥+𝑠2𝑥2+···+ 𝑠𝑛−1𝑥𝑛−1 in the quotient ring
𝑅𝑞 := Z𝑞[𝑥]/(𝑥𝑛+ 1) and 𝑝 denotes the plaintext modulus.
We modify the existing CCA attacks on BFV encryption [25]
to obtain Algorithm 1, which is an active attack on SealPIR.
Conceptually, this attack recovers the client’s secret key by
performing a binary search for each𝑠𝑖∈ Z𝑞, for𝑖∈[ 𝑛].
Algorithm 1Active attack for recovering𝑠𝑖∈ Z𝑞 in SealPIR
Setup:Let O(·)← Recover(st,𝜎𝑐,·). (To implementO(·)
instep4oftheexperimentinDefinitionB.1,firstsend C any
index in[𝑁], and then sendC the desired input toO(·).)
DefineΔ←⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋.
Algorithm: Let𝑔← O(−1, 0), where𝑔∈ Z𝑞[𝑥]/(𝑥𝑛+ 1).
Let𝑡←𝑔[𝑖] (where𝑔[𝑖] denotes the coefficient of𝑥𝑖 in𝑔).
if𝑡≠ 0 then
Define𝑀←Δ.
else
Define𝑀←( 𝑞 mod 𝑝)+ Δ.
end if
Performbinarysearchtofindthesmallest 𝑗∈{0, 1,··· ,𝑀}
such thatO(−1,𝑗 ·𝑥𝑖)[𝑖]=(𝑡+ 1) mod 𝑝.
Output((𝑡·Δ+
Δ
2

+ 1)− 𝑗) mod𝑞.
Analysis of Algorithm 1.In SealPIR, when𝑑= 1, the client’s
privatehint 𝜎𝑐 istheBFVsecretkey,i.e.,asecretringelement
𝑠 ∈ 𝑅𝑞, that the client uses to generate its queries. The
server answers each client query with a single BFV ciphertext
(𝑎,𝑏)∈ 𝑅2
𝑞. Finally, it holds that
O(−1,𝑗 ·𝑥𝑖)= Dec𝐵𝐹𝑉(𝑠,(−1,𝑗 ·𝑥𝑖))
= RoundΔ(𝑗·𝑥𝑖+𝑠)/Δ, (1)
where RoundΔ(𝑔) rounds each coefficient of the polynomial𝑔
to the closest multiple ofΔ :=⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋.
By Equation (1), we see that𝑡 (defined as in Algorithm 1)
is equal toO(−1, 0)[𝑖], or, equivalently,RoundΔ(𝑠𝑖)/Δ∈ Z𝑝.
Therefore,𝑠𝑖 must fall into the following ranges:
• If𝑡= 0, then
𝑠𝑖∈

𝑝·Δ−
Δ
2

,··· ,𝑞− 1

∪

0,··· ,
Δ
2

.
• If𝑡≠ 0, then𝑠𝑖∈

𝑡·Δ−
Δ
2

,··· ,𝑡·Δ+
Δ
2
	
.
Let𝑗 bethesmallestvaluein {0,...,𝑀 }suchthat RoundΔ(𝑗+
𝑠𝑖)/Δ= RoundΔ(𝑠𝑖)/Δ+ 1∈ Z𝑝. The algorithm performs a
binarysearchtofind 𝑗,requiringroughly log𝑞 queriesto O(·).
We observe that, after this binary search,𝑗 will be exactly
𝑇−𝑠𝑖,where 𝑇 =𝑡·Δ+
Δ
2

+1isthe“nextroundingboundary”
of RoundΔ(·). Finally, the algorithm outputs𝑇− 𝑗, which is
equalto 𝑠𝑖.Thus,itsuccessfullyrecovers 𝑠𝑖∈ Z𝑞,withroughly
log𝑞 queries toO(·).
Torecovertheentiresecretkey 𝑠,anattackercanperformthe
above binary search for all coefficients in{𝑠𝑖}𝑖∈[𝑛] in parallel.
In other words, instead of asking the oracleO for(−1,𝑗 ·𝑥𝑖),
the attacker may ask for(−1,˝𝑛
𝑖=1 𝑗𝑖·𝑥𝑖), where the{𝑗𝑖}𝑖∈[𝑛]
are the query points checked by each of the𝑛 parallel binary
19

searches. So, the total number of queries needed to recover
𝑠∈ 𝑅𝑞 remains roughlylog𝑞. After this attack, the adversary
knows the client’s secret key,𝑠, and can thus learn all of the
client’s past and future PIR queries.
C Additional material on SimplePIR
C.1 Parameter selection
WeinstantiateSimplePIRwiththeparameterchoicesthatmax-
imizeitsthroughput,whilemeetingthedesiredcorrectnessand
security requirements. Given a database size𝑁, a correctness
failure probability𝛿, an adversary’s runtime𝑇, and a security
failure probability𝜖, we proceed as follows:
1. We first fix the ciphertext modulus 𝑞 to be one of
{216, 232, 264}, as modern hardware natively supports oper-
ations overZ𝑞 with these moduli.
2. We use LWE hardness estimates [7] to pick the LWE secret
dimension𝑛 along with the LWE error distribution𝜒, such
that a collection of
√
𝑁 such LWE samples is(𝑇,𝜖)-secure
against known attacks.
3. We compute the largest plaintext modulus,𝑝, such that the
chosen LWE parameters support at least
√
𝑁 homomorphic
additions, with correctness error probability𝛿.
Inthiswork,wetake 𝜒tobeadiscreteGaussiandistribution.
We give concrete values for our parameters in Section 4.2.
C.2 Correctness and security of SimplePIR
We now give the formal SimplePIR theorem statement:
Theorem C.1(SimplePIR). On database size𝑁∈ N, correct-
ness failure probability𝛿, adversary runtime𝑇, and security
failure probability𝜖, let
• 𝜒 be the discrete Gaussian distribution with variance𝜎2,
• (𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 ) be LWE parameters achieving(𝑇,𝜖)-security for√
𝑁 LWE samples, and
• 𝑝∈ N be a plaintext modulus chosen to satisfy
⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋≥
√
2·𝜎·𝑝·𝑁 1/4·
√︁
ln(2/𝛿). (2)
Then, for a random LWE matrixA←
R
Z
√
𝑁×𝑛
𝑞 , SimplePIR is a
(𝑇−𝑂(
√
𝑁), 2𝜖)-securePIRschemeondatabasesize 𝑁,over
plaintext spaceZ𝑝, with correctness error𝛿.
Proof. We prove correctness and security separately.
Correctness.Consider a client that interacts with the server
to query for the database value at(𝑖row,𝑖 col)∈ [
√
𝑁]2. Let
u𝑖row denote the unit vector𝑖row in Z
√
𝑁
𝑞 (i.e., the vector of all
zeros, with a single ‘1’ at index𝑖row). TheRecover routine in
SimplePIR computes:
ˆ𝑑= ans[𝑖row]− hint𝑐[𝑖row, :]· s
= u𝑇
𝑖row·( ans− hint𝑐· s)
= u𝑇
𝑖row·( db·( As+ e+Δ· u𝑖col)−( db· A)· s)
= u𝑇
𝑖row·( db· e+Δ· db· u𝑖col)
= db[𝑖row, :]· e+Δ· db[𝑖row,𝑖 col],
where db[𝑖row, :] denotes row𝑖row of the database matrixdb,
and db[𝑖row,𝑖 col] denotes the element at(𝑖row,𝑖 col) in db. Re-
covery succeeds whenRoundΔ( ˆ𝑑)/Δ is equal todb[𝑖row,𝑖 col].
This happens if and only if|db[𝑖row, :]· e| <Δ/2.
We can guarantee successful decryption by ensuring that
⌊𝑝/2⌋·
√
𝑁·|e|∞ <Δ/2 (because we can store the database
entries—which are elements inZ𝑝—as values in the range
{−⌊𝑝/2⌋,−⌊𝑝/2⌋+ 1,..., ⌈𝑝/2⌉− 1}, so that they have
maximal norm⌊𝑝/2⌋). However, we instead use a tighter
bound on|db[𝑖row, :]· e| by relying on properties of the error
distribution, 𝜒. As a result, we will obtain a scheme in which
decryptionsucceedswithprobability 1−𝛿 (ratherthan1)with
a larger plaintext modulus,𝑝.
Indeed, as 𝜒 is the discrete Gaussian distribution with
variance𝜎2 = 𝑠2
2𝜋 for some𝑠 > 0, by [68, Lemma 2.2][12,
Lemma 2.4], for any𝑇 >0, it holds that,
Pr[| db[𝑖row, :]· e|≥𝑇·𝑠∥db[𝑖row, :]∥] < 2 exp(−𝜋·𝑇 2),
where∥·∥ denotes the Euclidean norm.
Taking𝑇 =Δ/(2𝑠·∥db[𝑖row, :]∥), we see that
Pr[| db[𝑖row, :]· e|≥Δ/2] <𝛿,
as long as
2 exp
 
−𝜋·
 Δ
2𝑠·∥db[𝑖row, :]∥
 2!
≤𝛿.
Equivalently, recovery fails with probability at most𝛿, if
Δ≥ 2𝑠·∥db[𝑖row, :]∥·
√︂
ln(2/𝛿)
𝜋 .
Again, as we can store the elements in db in the range
[−⌊𝑝/2⌋,⌊𝑝/2⌋], we have that
db[𝑖row,:]
≤
√︃√
𝑁·⌊𝑝/2⌋2=𝑁 1/4·⌊𝑝/2⌋.
In addition, we know thatΔ= ⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋ and𝑠=𝜎·
√
2𝜋. Thus,
recovery fails with probability at most𝛿, as long as:
⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋≥𝜎·
√
2𝜋·𝑝·𝑁 1/4·
√︂
ln(2/𝛿)
𝜋 ,
or, equivalently,
⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋≥
√
2·𝜎·𝑝·𝑁 1/4·
√︁
ln(2/𝛿),
20

By Equation (2), this condition holds. Thus, SimplePIR is
correct, except with error probability at most𝛿.
Security.SecurityfollowsfromthefactthattheLWEproblem
is hard, even when the LWE matrixA is reused across many
independent trials, each using an independently generated
LWE secrets←
R
Z𝑛
𝑞, as shown in prior work [83, Lemma 7.3].
We connect the security of SimplePIR to the hardness of LWE
with the following lemma:
Lemma C.2. Let𝑁∈ Nbe the database size,(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 ) be the
LWE parameters, andA∈ Z
√
𝑁×𝑛
𝑞 be the random LWE matrix
used in SimplePIR. For any𝑖∈[ 𝑁], we define the distribution
Q𝑖 ={( A, qu𝑖) : _, qu𝑖← Query(𝑖)}.
If the(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 )-LWE problem with
√
𝑁 samples is(𝑇,𝜖)-hard,
then any algorithm running in time𝑇−𝑂(
√
𝑁) can have
success probability at most𝜖 in distinguishingQ𝑖 from the
distribution{( A, r) : r←
R
Z
√
𝑁
𝑞 }.
Proof. Consider any index𝑖∈[ 𝑁]. We decompose𝑖 into the
pair of coordinates(𝑖row,𝑖 col)∈[
√
𝑁]2, as done in theQuery
routine in SimplePIR, and letu𝑖col denote unit vector𝑖col in
Z
√
𝑁
𝑞 . Additionally, we define the following distributions:
• D1={( A, As+ e) : s←
R
Z𝑛
𝑞, e←
R
𝜒
√
𝑁}, and
• D2={( A, r) : r←
R
Z
√
𝑁
𝑞 }.
Now, consider the simulatorS that, given as input(A, v)∈
Z
√
𝑁×𝑛
𝑞 × Z
√
𝑁
𝑞 , computes and outputs(A, v+⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋· u𝑖col).
We observe that:
• when(A, v) is sampled fromD1, the simulator’s output is
distributed identically toQ𝑖.
• when(A, v) is sampled fromD2, the simulator’s output is
distributed identically toD2.
Asthe(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 )-LWEproblemwith
√
𝑁 samplesis(𝑇,𝜖)-hard,
we know that any algorithm running in time𝑇 has advantage
at most𝜖 in distinguishing betweenD1 and D2. Our simulator
S runs in time𝑂(
√
𝑁). Thus, it must hold that any algorithm
distinguishing betweenQ𝑖 and D2 in time at most𝑇−𝑂(
√
𝑁)
can have success probability at most𝜖. □
Lemma C.2 shows that any algorithm running in time
𝑇−𝑂(
√
𝑁) can distinguish the queries made by a client
in SimplePIR from random vectors inZ
√
𝑁
𝑞 with success
probability at most𝜖. Therefore, by the triangle inequality,
any algorithm running in time𝑇−𝑂(
√
𝑁) can distinguish the
queries made by a client in SimplePIR to any pair of indices
𝑖∈[ 𝑁] and 𝑗∈[ 𝑁] with success probability at most2𝜖. In
other words, SimplePIR is(𝑇−𝑂(
√
𝑁), 2𝜖)-secure. □
We can extend the security definition in Section 3.2 to
handle𝑄 queries by requiring that any two sequences of𝑄
queriesproduceindistinguishablequerydistributions.Ahybrid
argument proves the following corollary:
Corollary C.3(𝑄-query security of SimplePIR). For any
sequence𝐼∈[ 𝑁]𝑄 of𝑄 indices, we defineD𝐼 to be the query
distribution that it induces, i.e.,
D𝐼 ={(A, qu𝑘) : _, qu𝑘← Query(𝐼𝑘)}𝑘∈[𝑄]
Also, we define the random query distribution,R:
R=
n
(A, r) :𝑟←
R
Z
√
𝑁
𝑞
o
𝑘∈[𝑄]
If the(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 )-LWE problem with
√
𝑁 samples is(𝑇,𝜖)-hard,
then D𝐼 is(𝑇−𝑂(𝑄𝑛
√
𝑁),𝑄𝜖)-indistinguishable fromR.
Proof. The proof follows by a standard hybrid argument. Let
𝐼∈[ 𝑁]𝑄 be a sequence of𝑄 indices. For any𝑗∈[ 𝑄], we
define the hybrid distribution,𝐻𝑗:
𝐻𝑗 =
n
(A, r) :𝑟←
R
Z
√
𝑁
𝑞
o
𝑘∈{ 1,...,𝑗}
∪{(A, qu𝑘) : _, qu𝑘← Query(𝐼𝑘)}𝑘∈{𝑗+1,...,𝑄}.
In other words,𝐻𝑗 is the distribution where the first𝑗 queries
are truly random vectors, and the remaining(𝑄− 𝑗) queries
are sampled fromD𝐼. As such,𝐻0= D𝐼, while𝐻𝑄 = R.
Now, consider any algorithmA that runs in time𝑡 and
distinguishesbetweendistributions 𝐻0 and𝐻𝑄 withadvantage
at least𝑝. For any𝑗∈[ 𝑄], we define𝑝𝑗 to be the probability
that A outputs 1 when given samples from𝐻𝑗. By definition,
𝑝=
𝑝𝑄−𝑝0
=

𝑄∑︁
𝑗=1
(𝑝𝑗−𝑝𝑗−1)

.
Thus, there exists some𝑗∗∈[ 𝑄] such that
𝑝𝑗∗−𝑝𝑗∗−1
≥ 𝑝/𝑄.
Using A as a subroutine, we then build an algorithmB
that distinguishes between the distributionsQ𝐼 𝑗∗ (defined in
Lemma C.2) and
n
(A, r) : r←
R
Z
√
𝑁
𝑞
o
.
Algorithm 2B, on input(A, b):
for 𝑗 = 1,...,𝑗 ∗− 1 do
Compute r𝑗←
R
Z
√
𝑁
𝑞
end for
for 𝑗 = 𝑗∗+ 1,...,𝑄 do
Compute qu𝑗← Query(𝐼𝑗)
end for
Output
A

(A, r1),··· ,(A, r𝑗∗−1),(A, b),(A, qu𝑗∗+1),··· ,(A, qu𝑄)

Then, we observe that:
• When B is given an input sampled fromQ𝐼 𝑗∗, the input
that B feeds toA is distributed following𝐻𝑗∗. As such,B
outputs 1 with probability𝑝𝑗∗.
21

• When B is given an input sampled fromn
(A, r) : r←
R
Z
√
𝑁
𝑞
o
, the input that B feeds to A is
distributed following𝐻𝑗∗+1. As such, B outputs 1 with
probability𝑝𝑗∗+1.
So, B distinguishes between the distributions Q𝐼 𝑗∗ andn
(A, r) : r←
R
Z
√
𝑁
𝑞
o
with advantage at least
𝑝𝑗∗−𝑝𝑗∗−1
≥
𝑝/𝑄. Further,B runs in time𝑡+𝑂(𝑄𝑛
√
𝑁), asQuery takes
time𝑂(𝑛
√
𝑁).
By Lemma C.2, we conclude that, if the(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 )-LWE
problem with
√
𝑁 samples is(𝑇,𝜖)-hard and𝑡+𝑂(𝑄𝑛
√
𝑁)≤
𝑇−𝑂(
√
𝑁), it must hold that𝑝/𝑄 <𝜖. In other words, if the
(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 )-LWE problem with
√
𝑁 samples is(𝑇,𝜖)-hard, then
D𝐼 is(𝑂(𝑇−𝑄𝑛
√
𝑁),𝑄𝜖)-indistinguishable fromR. □
C.3 Additional extensions and optimizations
Answering many client queries at once. To answer a
client query, the SimplePIR server multiplies the
√
𝑁-by-
√
𝑁
database matrix by the client’s dimension-
√
𝑁 query vector,
in 2𝑁 operations. If the server wants to answer
√
𝑁 client
queries at once, it can use fast matrix-multiplication algo-
rithms[29,95]tocomputethismoreefficientlythananswering
each query independently—in𝑜(𝑁 3/2) time. This observation
comes directly from prior work [13,71]. We have not yet
experimented with this optimization, since it is not clear to us
that the asymptotic efficiency gain will translate to concrete
cost improvements.
Faster preprocessing.In its preprocessing step, the server
computes the matrix-matrix product of the database with the
LWE matrix,A. The asymptotic performance of this step can
be improved using fast matrix-multiplication algorithms [29,
65,90,95]. We suspect that such a refinement will not improve
the concrete performance for our parameter sizes.
Handling database updates.As discussed in Remark 3.1, if
thedatabasechanges,theserverinherentlyneedsperformsome
of its preprocessing work again. In SimplePIR, the amount of
preprocessing work that needs to be repeated is proportional
to the number of rows in the database matrix whose contents
have changed. More specifically, the preprocessing phase in
SimplePIR computeshint𝑐 to be the product of the database
matrix, db, and the LWE matrix,A. Thus, when some rowd
of the database changes, only the corresponding row inhint𝑐
changes and must be updated. In other words, it is sufficient
for the server to computed· A∈ Z1×𝑛
𝑞 (rather than the much
moreexpensive db· A∈ Z
√
𝑁×𝑛
𝑞 )andsenditbacktotheclient.
Additions and deletions of rows indbcan be handled similarly.
Decreasing the online download with local rounding.In
SimplePIR’s online phase, the client downloads a vector of√
𝑁 elements in the ciphertext space,Z𝑞, performs a linear
computationonthem,andfinallyroundstheresulttomapitinto
themessagespace, Z𝑝.Priorwork[38,Lemma3.2][39,Lemma
4.1][18, Lemma 1] observes that, for any value𝑣∈ Z𝑞 that is
“close” to a multiple ofΔ, and for a random𝑟∈ Z𝑞, it holds
with high probability that
RoundΔ(𝑣)= RoundΔ(𝑣+𝑟)− RoundΔ(𝑟).
Using this observation (with𝑣← ans− hint𝑐·𝑠 and𝑟←
hint𝑐·𝑠),theserverandtheclientcouldeachlocallyroundthe
values they contribute to the client’s final computation (ans
and hint𝑐· s, respectively), decreasing the online download to
only
√
𝑁 elements inZ𝑝. If the LWE parameters are chosen
appropriately(namely,⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋≥
√
2· 4
𝛿·𝜎·𝑝·𝑁 1/4·
√︁
ln(8/𝛿)),
thenthislocalroundingdoesnotaffectthescheme’scorrectness
(i.e., recovery still succeeds, except with probability𝛿).
Inpractice,thisoptimizationdecreasestheonlinedownload
by a factor oflog𝑞
log𝑝≈ 3×, at the expense of requiring a much
smaller plaintext modulus,𝑝, to maintain correctness and thus
markedly reducing SimplePIR’s throughput. Exploring other
approaches to local rounding [20] or to correcting the errors
that it introduces are interesting directions for future work.
D Linearly homomorphic encryption
with preprocessing
In this section, we abstract out the key property of Regev
encryption that enables SimplePIR’s high throughput. We
expect this primitive to have applications beyond PIR.
Specifically, we introduce the notion oflinearly homomor-
phic encryption with preprocessing. This notion is similar to
standard linearly homomorhpic encryption: given an encryp-
tion of vectorv∈ Z𝑚
𝑝 (where the ring Z𝑝 and dimension
𝑚 are parameters of the scheme), it is possible to homomor-
phically evaluate any linear function𝑓 : Z𝑚
𝑝 → Z𝑝 on the
encrypted values; after evaluation, the resulting ciphertext
decrypts to the function value𝑓(𝑣). What distinguishes our
use of Regev encryption from standard linearly homomorphic
encryption is that we can preprocess the function𝑓 to speed
up the homomorphic-evaluation operation. In particular, given
a linear function𝑓, we compute a preprocessed hint,hint𝑓.
The hint enables homomorphic evaluation of𝑓 on ciphertexts
encryptingany v∈ Z𝑚
𝑝 atverylowcomputationalcost—nearly
the cost of evaluating𝑓 on a plaintext vector.
D.1 Definition
Formally, alinearly homomorphic encryption scheme with
preprocessingconsists of the following efficient algorithms,
which are implicitly parameterized by a security parameter
𝑛∈ N, a correctness parameter𝛿∈ N, a plaintext dimension
𝑚∈ N, a key spaceK, and a plaintext spaceZ𝑝:
Setup()→ pp. Sample and output the public parameters.
Enc(pp, sk, v)→ ct. Given the public parameterspp, a secret
key sk∈ K, and a vectorv∈ Z𝑚
𝑝, output a ciphertextct.
Preproc(pp, 𝑓)→ hint𝑓. Given public parameterspp and a
linear function𝑓 : Z𝑚
𝑝→ Z𝑝, output a function hinthint𝑓.
22

Apply(pp, 𝑓,ct)→ ct𝑓. Given the public parameterspp, a
linear function𝑓 : Z𝑚
𝑝→ Z𝑝, and a ciphertextct, produce
a ciphertextct𝑓 that encrypts the value of the function𝑓
applied to the vector encrypted byct.
Dec(sk, hint𝑓, ct𝑓)→ 𝑑. Given a secret keysk, the function
hint hint𝑓,andaciphertext ct𝑓,outputadecryptedvalue 𝑑.
Correctness. After encryption, preprocessing and applica-
tion of the linear function, and decryption are carried out
sequentially, the output should be the correct function value,
except with negligible probability in the implicit correctness
parameter. Formally, we say that the encryption scheme has
correctness error𝛿 if, for allsk∈ K, for allv∈ Z𝑚
𝑝, and
linear functions𝑓∈ Z𝑚
𝑝→ Z𝑝, the following probability is at
least 1−𝛿:
Pr

𝑑= 𝑓(v) :
pp← Setup()
ct← Enc(pp, sk, v)
hint𝑓← Preproc(pp, 𝑓)
ct𝑓← Apply(pp, 𝑓,ct)
𝑑← Dec(sk, hint𝑓, ct𝑓)

.
Security.We require semantic security [51]. In other words,
ct should reveal no information about the encrypted vector
v =(𝑣1,...,𝑣 𝑚). Formally, given vectorsv0, v1∈ Z𝑚
𝑝, for
𝑏∈{ 0, 1}, we define the value𝑊𝑏 as:
𝑊𝑏 := Pr

A(pp, ct)= 1 :
pp← Setup()
sk← K
ct← Enc(pp, sk, v𝑏)

.
Then, we say that the encryption scheme issecure if, for
all efficient adversariesA, for allv0, v1∈ Z𝑚
𝑝, it holds that
|𝑊0−𝑊1| is negligible in the implicit security parameter.
D.2 Construction
In Figure 12, we construct a linear homomorphic encryp-
tion scheme with preprocessing from Regev encryption. The
construction yields the following theorem:
Theorem D.1. Assume the(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 )-LWE problem with𝑚
samples is(𝑇,𝜖)-hard, and let𝑝∈ N be a suitable plaintext
modulus3 for Regev encryption with these parameters sup-
porting𝑚 homomorphic additions. Then, the construction of
Figure 12 is a(𝑇−𝑂(𝑚), 2𝜖)-secure linearly homomorphic
encryption scheme with preprocessing for plaintext dimension
𝑚 and plaintext modulus𝑝 where:
• the hint consists of𝑛 elements ofZ𝑞,
• the ciphertext encrypting a vector inZ𝑚
𝑝 consists of𝑚
elements ofZ𝑞,
• the evaluation routineApply requires𝑚 additions and𝑚
multiplications inZ𝑞, and
• theciphertextthat Applyoutputsconsistsofone Z𝑞 element.
3To support arbitrary linear functions, it is necessary to take𝑝|𝑞. To support
linear functions whose output will not wrap aroundmod 𝑝 (as is the case
for PIR), such a restriction on𝑝 is not necessary.
Size Running time (per bit)
Hint Key Ct/bit Preproc Enc Apply Dec
Factoring [79,81] n/a 𝜆5 𝜆2 n/a 𝜆2 𝜆2 𝜆2
EC ElGamal [40] n/a 𝜆 𝜆 n/a 𝜆2 𝜆 𝜆
Regev [83,86] n/a 𝜆 1 n/a 𝜆 𝜆 𝜆
Ring LWE [72] n/a 𝜆 1 n/a 1 1 1
This work(LWE) 𝜆 𝜆 1 𝜆 𝜆 1 𝜆
Table 11: Comparison of linearly homomorphic encryption schemes
on plaintext dimension𝑚. We suppresslog𝜆 factors and we assume
that it is possible to perform modular multiplication in linear time.
SinceourschemeusesplainLWEinsteadofringLWE,itissimplerto
implement—there is no need for polynomial arithmetic, fast Fourier
transforms, or a modulus of special form.
It is worth emphasizing the efficiency of the construction
implied by Theorem D.1. By our choice of LWE parameters
in Equation (2), the number of bits encoding each ciphertext
element (i.e.,log𝑞) grows logarithmically with the plaintext
dimension𝑚 and is independent of the security parameter𝑛.
Thus, our construction has:
• a hint size that grows only logarithmically with the size of
the linear function𝑓,
• ciphertext size that is only alog𝑚 factor larger than the
corresponding plaintext (and that is independent of the
security parameter), and
• a homomorphic evaluation routine that is essentially as fast
as plaintext evaluation of𝑓, as homomorphic evaluation
just requires computing𝑓 over Z𝑞 instead of overZ𝑝. This
evaluation time is independent of the security parameter.
In contrast, when using Paillier [81] or ElGamal-based [40]
linearly homomorphic encryption, the ciphertext size and eval-
uation time grow quadratically or cubically with the security
parameter (Table 11).
D.3 Abstract view of SimplePIR
In Figure 13, we re-express the SimplePIR construction of
Section 4 in the language of linear homomorphic encryption
withpreprocessing.ThePIRschemeofFigure13demonstrates
that, given a linearly homomorphic encryption scheme with
preprocessing, there exists a PIR scheme with
√
𝑁 commu-
nication cost and for which the server’s online computation
time consists of running the encryption’sApply algorithm√
𝑁 times, each on a vector of dimension
√
𝑁. The client’s
hint—which it must fetch in an offline phase—consists of
√
𝑁
hints for the encryption scheme, each computed for a linear
function with
√
𝑁 inputs.
An interesting task for future work would be to construct a
linear homomorphic encryption scheme with preprocessing
with smaller hints. This would reduce the offline communica-
tion in the resulting PIR schemes.
23

Parameters:LWE parameters(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 ), a plaintext modu-
lus𝑝≪𝑞. DefineΔ :=⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋. The keyspace isK= Z𝑛
𝑞.
Setup()→ pp∈ Z𝑚×𝑛
𝑞
• Sample A←
R
Z𝑚×𝑛
𝑞 .
• Return pp← A.
Enc(pp, sk, v)→ ct∈ Z𝑚
𝑞
• Parse(A∈ Z𝑚×𝑛
𝑞 )← pp.
• Sample e←
R
𝜒𝑚.
• Return ct← A· sk+ e+Δ· v∈ Z𝑚
𝑞.
Preproc(pp, 𝑓)→ hint𝑓∈ Z1×𝑛
𝑞
• Parse(A∈ Z𝑚×𝑛
𝑞 )← pp.
• Parse(f∈ Z1×𝑚
𝑞 )← 𝑓 as a row vector.
• Return hint𝑓← f· A.
Apply(pp, 𝑓,ct)→ ct𝑓∈ Z𝑞
• Parse:
– (f∈ Z1×𝑚
𝑞 )← 𝑓 as a row vector,
– (c∈ Z𝑚
𝑞)← ct.
• Return ct𝑓← f· c∈ Z𝑞.
Dec(pp, sk, hint𝑓, ct𝑓)→ 𝑑∈ Z𝑝
• Compute ˆ𝑑← ct𝑓− hint𝑓· sk∈ Z𝑞.
• Let𝑣∈ Z𝑞 be RoundΔ( ˆ𝑑), which isˆ𝑑 rounded to the
nearest integral multiple ofΔ.
• Return𝑑←𝑣/Δ∈ Z𝑝.
Figure 12: Regev Encryption expressed as linear homomorphic en-
cryption with preprocessing.
E Additional material on DoublePIR
We give a formal description of DoublePIR in Figure 14.
E.1 Parameter selection
As for SimplePIR, we take the ciphertext modulus,𝑞, to be
232 and the LWE distribution,𝜒, to be a discrete Gaussian in
DoublePIR.Weusehardnessestimates[7]toselectappropriate
choices of𝜒 and of the LWE dimension,𝑛. Our selection
of the plaintext modulus,𝑝, in DoublePIR is slightly more
conservative than that for SimplePIR, as for correctness to
hold, the recovery routine must succeed for:
• the single element read from the first-level database, and
• the(𝑛+ 1) elements read from the second-level database.
We detail our calculation of𝑝 in Theorem E.1. Here, we
give sample choices of the plaintext modulus,𝑝, for different
database sizes:
Database size𝑁: 226 228 230 234 238 242
Plaintext modulus𝑝: 929 781 657 464 328 231
Parameters:a database size𝑁, a linearly homomorphic encryp-
tion with preprocessing scheme(Setup, Enc, Preproc, Apply,
Dec) with plaintext dimension
√
𝑁, plaintext spaceZ𝑝, key
space K,andpublicparameters pp,computedas pp← Setup().
Our construction uses the following helper routine:
ToFuncs(db)→( 𝑓1,..., 𝑓 √
𝑁):
• View the databasedb as vectorsd1,..., d√
𝑁∈ Z
√
𝑁
𝑝 .
• For all𝑖∈[
√
𝑁], define𝑓𝑖(x) :=⟨d𝑖, x⟩∈ Z𝑝.
(Here, 𝑓𝑖 is a linear function onZ
√
𝑁
𝑝 to Z𝑝.)
• Output(𝑓1,..., 𝑓 √
𝑁).
Setup(db)→( hint𝑠, hint𝑐).
• Let(𝑓1,..., 𝑓 √
𝑁)← ToFuncs(db).
• For all𝑖∈[
√
𝑁], compute: hint𝑖← Preproc(pp, 𝑓𝑖).
• Set hint𝑐←( hint1,..., hint√
𝑁).
• Return(_, hint𝑐).
Query(𝑖)→( st, qu).
• Write𝑖 as a pair(𝑗,𝑘)∈[
√
𝑁]×[
√
𝑁].
• Sample sk←
R
K.
• Compute qu← Enc(pp, sk, u𝑗∈ Z
√
𝑁
𝑝 ), whereu𝑗 is
the vector of all zeros with a single ‘1’ at index𝑗.
• Set st←( sk,𝑘) and return(st, qu).
Answer(db, hint𝑠, qu)→ ans.
• Let(𝑓1,..., 𝑓 √
𝑁)← ToFuncs(db).
• Forall 𝑖∈[
√
𝑁],compute: ans𝑖← Apply(pp, 𝑓𝑖, qu).
• Return ans←( ans1,..., ans√
𝑁).
Recover(st, hint𝑐, ans)→ 𝑑∈ Z𝑝.
• Parse(sk,𝑘)← st.
• Parse(hint1,..., hint√
𝑁)← hint𝑐.
• Parse(ct1,..., ct√
𝑁)← ans.
• Return𝑑← Dec(pp, sk, hint𝑘, ct𝑘).
Figure 13: The SimplePIR protocol, expressed in terms of linearly
homomorphic encryption with preprocessing.
24

Construction:DoublePIR. Theparametersoftheconstruc-
tion are a database size𝑁, database dimensionsℓ and𝑚
(such thatℓ·𝑚 ≥ 𝑁), LWE parameters(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 ), plain-
text modulus𝑝≪ 𝑞, and LWE matricesA1∈ Z𝑚×𝑛𝑞 and
A2∈ Zℓ×𝑛𝑞 (sampled in practice using a hash function). The
database consists of𝑁 values inZ𝑝, represented as a matrix
in Zℓ×𝑚
𝑝 . We define the scalars𝜅 :=
l
log𝑞
log𝑝
m
andΔ :=
j
𝑞
𝑝
k
.
We use the helper routines:
• Decomp : Z𝑎×𝑏
𝑞 → Z𝜅𝑎×𝑏
𝑞 ,whichwriteseach Z𝑞element
as its base-𝑝 decomposition,
• Recomp : Z𝜅𝑎×𝑏
𝑞 → Z𝑎×𝑏
𝑞 , which interprets each𝜅× 1
submatrix of its input as a base-𝑝 decomposition of aZ𝑞
element and outputs the matrix of these elements.
• RoundΔ : Z𝑎
𝑞 → Z𝑎
𝑞, which rounds each entry to the
nearest integral multiple ofΔ.
Setup(db∈ Zℓ×𝑚
𝑝 )→( hint𝑠, hint𝑐).
• Compute
(
hint𝑠← Decomp(A𝑇
1· db𝑇)∈ Z𝜅𝑛×ℓ
𝑞
hint𝑐← hint𝑠· A2∈ Z𝜅𝑛×𝑛
𝑞
• Return(hint𝑠, hint𝑐).
Query(𝑖∈[ 𝑁])→( st, qu).
• Write𝑖 as a pair(𝑖row,𝑖 col)∈[ ℓ]×[ 𝑚].
• Sample
(
s1←
R
Z𝑛
𝑞, e1←
R
𝜒𝑚∈ Z𝑚
𝑞,
s2←
R
Z𝑛
𝑞, e2←
R
𝜒ℓ∈ Zℓ
𝑞.
• Compute
(
c1←( A1· s1+ e1+Δ· u𝑖col)∈ Z𝑚
𝑞,
c2←( A2· s2+ e2+Δ· u𝑖row)∈ Zℓ
𝑞,
where u𝑖∗ is the vector of all zeros with a single ‘1’
at index𝑖∗.
• Return(st, qu)←(( s1, s2),(c1, c2)).
Answer(db, hint𝑠, qu)→ ans.
• Parse(c1∈ Z𝑚
𝑞, c2∈ Zℓ
𝑞)← qu.
• Compute
 

ans1← Decomp(c𝑇
1· db𝑇)∈ Z𝜅×ℓ
𝑞
h← ans1· A2∈ Z𝜅×𝑛
𝑞 ,"
ansℎ
ans2
#
←
"
hint𝑠
ans1
#
· c2∈ Z𝜅(𝑛+1)
𝑞 .
• Return ans←( h, ansℎ, ans2).
Recover(st, hint𝑐, ans)→ 𝑑.
• Parse:
– (s1∈ Z𝑛
𝑞, s2∈ Z𝑛
𝑞)← st,
– (h∈ Z𝜅×𝑛
𝑞 , ansℎ∈ Z𝜅×𝑛
𝑞 , ans2∈ Z𝜅
𝑞)← ans.
• Compute:
ˆh1
ˆa1

←
ansℎ
ans2

−
hint𝑐
h

· s2∈ Z𝜅×(𝑛+1)
𝑞 ,
h1
a1

← Recomp

RoundΔ
 ˆh1
ˆa1

/Δ

∈ Z𝑛+1
𝑞 ,
ˆ𝑑← a1− s𝑇
1 h1∈ Z𝑞.
• Return𝑑← RoundΔ( ˆ𝑑)/Δ∈ Z𝑝.
Figure 14: The DoublePIR protocol.
E.2 Correctness and security of DoublePIR
We now prove the following theorem:
TheoremE.1 (DoublePIR). Ondatabasesize 𝑁∈ N,correct-
ness failure probability𝛿, adversary runtime𝑇, and security
failure probability𝜖, let
• ℓ,𝑚 ∈ N be database dimensions (such thatℓ·𝑚≥ 𝑁),
• 𝜒 be the discrete Gaussian distribution with variance𝜎2,
• (𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 ) be LWE parameters achieving(𝑇,𝜖)-security for
max(ℓ,𝑚) LWE samples, and
• 𝑝∈ N be a plaintext modulus chosen to satisfy
⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋≥𝜎𝑝
√︄
2 max(𝑚,ℓ)· ln
 2(𝜅(𝑛+ 1)+ 1)
𝛿

, (3)
where𝜅∈ Z is the scalar
l
log𝑞
log𝑝
m
.
Then,forrandomLWEmatrices A1←
R
Z𝑚×𝑛𝑞 and A2←
R
Zℓ×𝑛𝑞 ,
DoublePIR is a(𝑇−𝑂(𝑛·ℓ+𝑚), 4𝜖)-secure PIR scheme on
database size𝑁, over plaintext spaceZ𝑝, with correctness
error𝛿.
Proof. We prove correctness and security separately.
Correctness. Consider a client that queries for the database
value at index(𝑖row,𝑖 col)∈[ ℓ]×[ 𝑚]. We observe that the
Recover routine in DoublePIR essentially runs𝜅·(𝑛+ 1)+ 1
instances of SimplePIR’s recovery routine, to recover𝜅·(𝑛+
1)+ 1 elements inZ𝑝, namely:
• one Z𝑝-element that encodes the database value at index
(𝑖row,𝑖 col) (in the “first level of PIR”),
• 𝜅𝑛 additional Z𝑝-elements that encode the𝑛 Z𝑞-elements
25

in row𝑖row of the first-level hint matrix,A𝑇
1· db𝑇 (in the
“second level of PIR”), and
• 𝜅additional Z𝑝-elementsthatencodethesingle Z𝑞-element
at position𝑖row in the first level answer vector,c𝑇
1· db𝑇 (in
the “second level of PIR”).
For the recovery to succeed, all𝜅·(𝑛+ 1)+ 1 invocations of
SimplePIR’srecoverymustsucceed.Toboundthisprobability,
we compute the probabilities of two separate events:
• 𝐸1, the event that the recovery of the𝜅·(𝑛+ 1) elements in
the “second level of PIR” fails, i.e., that
h1
a1

≠ Recomp
 hint𝑠
ans1

· u𝑖row,
where right-multiplication byu𝑖row extracts the𝑖row-th col-
umn of the matrix.
• 𝐸2, the event that the recovery of the single element in the
“first level of PIR” fails, i.e., that
RoundΔ( ˆ𝑑)/Δ≠ db[𝑖row,𝑖 col].
We make use of the following two propositions:
Proposition E.2: Under the parameters in Theorem E.1,
Pr[𝐸1]≤ 𝜅(𝑛+ 1)
𝜅(𝑛+ 1)+ 1·𝛿.
Proof. DoublePIR’s recovery routine computes:
h1
a1

← Recomp

RoundΔ
 ˆh1
ˆa1

/Δ

∈ Z𝑛+1
𝑞 .
Define db2=
hint𝑠
ans1

∈ Z𝜅(𝑛+1)×ℓ
𝑞 and let𝐸 be the event that
RoundΔ
 ˆh1
ˆa1

/Δ≠ db2· u𝑖row. (4)
We have thatPr[𝐸]≥ Pr[𝐸1] as𝐸1⊂ 𝐸. By rewriting terms:
ˆh1
ˆa1

=
ansℎ− hint𝑐· s2
ans2− h· s2

=
hint𝑠· c2−( hint𝑠· A2)· s2
ans1· c2−( ans1· A2)· s2

=
hint𝑠·( A2· s2+ e2+Δ· u𝑖row)− hint𝑠· A2· s2
ans1·( A2· s2+ e2+Δ· u𝑖row)− ans1· A2· s2

= db2· e2+Δ· db2· u𝑖row.
ComparingthiswithEquation(4),weseethat 𝐸 happensifand
only if∥db2· e2∥∞≥ Δ/2. The vectore B db2· e2 consists
of𝜅·( 𝑛+ 1) elements, which we denote as𝑒1,...,𝑒 𝜅·(𝑛+1).
As in our correctness proof for SimplePIR, we use a concen-
tration inequality [68, Lemma 2.2][12, Lemma 2.4] on each of
these terms: since𝜒 is the discrete Gaussian distribution with
variance𝜎2= 𝑠2
2𝜋 for some𝑠 >0, for every𝑗∈[ 𝜅·(𝑛+ 1)]
and for any𝑇 >0, it holds that,
Pr
𝑒𝑗
≥𝑇·𝑠∥db2[𝑗, :]∥

< 2 exp(−𝜋·𝑇 2),
where∥·∥ is the Euclidean norm. Note that since we can
represent the elements indb2 in the range(−𝑝/2,𝑝/2], we
havethat∥db2[𝑗, :]∥≤
√︁
ℓ·( 𝑝/2)2=
√
ℓ·𝑝/2.Therefore,for
every 𝑗∈[ 𝜅·(𝑛+ 1)], for any𝑇 >0, it holds that,
Pr
h𝑒𝑗
≥𝑇·𝑠·
√
ℓ·𝑝/2
i
< 2 exp(−𝜋·𝑇 2).
Now,wetake 𝑇 =Δ/(2𝑠·
√
ℓ·𝑝/2),andweseethat,forevery
𝑗∈[ 𝜅·(𝑛+ 1)],
Pr
𝑒𝑗
≥Δ/2

< 𝛿
𝜅(𝑛+ 1)+ 1, as long as
2 exp'›
«
−𝜋·
 
Δ
2𝑠·
√
ℓ·𝑝/2
! 2
“ﬁ
‹
≤ 𝛿
𝜅(𝑛+ 1)+ 1.
SubstitutingΔ =⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋ and 𝑠 = 𝜎·
√
2𝜋, we rewrite the
second equation as:
⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋≥𝜎·𝑝·
√︄
2ℓ· ln
 2𝜅(𝑛+ 1)+ 1
𝛿

.
By Equation (3), this condition holds. Thus, we have shown
that, for each𝑗 ∈ [𝜅·( 𝑛+ 1)],
𝑒𝑗
 < Δ/2 holds except
with probability 𝛿
𝜅(𝑛+1)+1. Therefore, by a union bound, all
𝑒1,...,𝑒 𝜅·(𝑛+1) have an absolute value smaller thanΔ/2with
probability 𝜅(𝑛+1)
𝜅(𝑛+1)+1·𝛿, which completes the proof. □
Proposition E.3: Under the parameters in Theorem E.1,
Pr[𝐸2|¬𝐸1]≤ 1
𝜅(𝑛+ 1)+ 1·𝛿.
Proof. If¬𝐸1 occurs, we know that
h1
a1

= Recomp
 hint𝑠
ans1

· u𝑖row
=
A𝑇
1· db𝑇
c𝑇
1· db𝑇

· u𝑖row.
Therefore,
ˆ𝑑= a1− s𝑇
1· h1
=(c𝑇
1· db𝑇− s𝑇
1· A𝑇
1· db𝑇)· u𝑖row
=(( s𝑇
1· A𝑇
1+ e𝑇
1+Δu𝑇
𝑖col)· db𝑇− s𝑇
1· A𝑇
1· db𝑇)· u𝑖row
= e𝑇· db𝑇· u𝑖row+Δu𝑇
𝑖col· db𝑇· u𝑖row.
Thus, we see thatRecover outputs the correct database
element, db[𝑖row,𝑖 col], if and only if
e𝑇· db𝑇· u𝑖row
 < Δ/2.
ByessentiallythesameanalysisasinPropositionE.2,theevent
26

that
e𝑇· db𝑇· u𝑖row
≥ Δ/2 happens occurs with probability
at most 1
𝜅(𝑛+1)+1·𝛿, given that the condition
⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋≥𝜎·𝑝·
√︂
2𝑚· ln 2(𝜅(𝑛+ 1)+ 1)
𝛿
holds, which is true by Equation (3). □
Combining the two propositions, we conclude that Dou-
blePIR’s correctness error is upper bounded by
Pr[𝐸1∨𝐸2]≤ Pr[𝐸1]+ Pr[𝐸2|¬𝐸1]≤ 𝛿.
Security.DoublePIR’s security follows from the hardness of
LWEwithareusedLWEmatrix[83].Werelyonthefollowing
lemma:
Lemma E.4. Let𝑁∈ N be the database size,ℓ,𝑚 ∈ N be
the database dimensions (such thatℓ·𝑚≥ 𝑁),(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 ) be
the LWE parameters, andA1∈ Z𝑚×𝑛
𝑞 and A2∈ Zℓ×𝑛
𝑞 be the
random LWE matrices used in DoublePIR. For any𝑖∈[ 𝑁],
we define the distribution
𝑄𝑖 ={( A1, A2, qu𝑖) : _, qu𝑖← Query(𝑖)}.
Ifthe(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 )-LWEproblemwith max(ℓ,𝑚)samplesis(𝑇,𝜖)-
hard, then any algorithm running in time𝑇−𝑂(𝑛·ℓ+𝑚) has
success probability at most2𝜖 in distinguishing𝑄𝑖 from the
distribution D={( A1, A2,(r1, r2)) : r1←
R
Z𝑚
𝑞, r2←
R
Zℓ
𝑞}.
Proof. Consider any index𝑖∈ [𝑁], and decompose𝑖 into
the pair of coordinates(𝑖row,𝑖 col) ∈ [ℓ]×[ 𝑚] as done in
DoublePIR’s Query routine. Letu𝑖col∈ Z𝑚
𝑞 denote unit vector
𝑖col in Z𝑚
𝑞 and u𝑖row denote unit vector𝑖row in Zℓ
𝑞. We define
the following distribution:
H𝑖 ={( A1, A2,(r1, A2s2+e2)) : r1←
R
Z𝑚
𝑞, s2←
R
Z𝑛
𝑞, e2←
R
𝜒ℓ}
Now, consider any algorithmA that runs in time𝑡 and
distinguishes between distributionsQ𝑖 and D with probability
𝑝. Let𝑝0,𝑝 1, and 𝑝2 be the probabilities thatA outputs 1
whengivensamplesfrom Q𝑖, H𝑖,and Drespectively.Thus,by
definition, it must hold that|𝑝0−𝑝2|= 𝑝. From the triangle
inequality we see that|𝑝0−𝑝1|+|𝑝1−𝑝2|≥ 𝑝.
Then, usingA as a subroutine, we build an algorithmB1
that distinguishes between the(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 )-LWE problem with𝑚
samplesandtheuniformdistribution,intime 𝑡+𝑂(𝑚·𝑛+ℓ)and
withsuccessprobability |𝑝0−𝑝1|.Becausethe (𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 )-LWE
problemwith 𝑚samplesis(𝑇,𝜖)-hard,if 𝑡≤𝑇−𝑂(𝑚·𝑛+ℓ),it
must hold that|𝑝0−𝑝1|≤𝜖. Similarly, we build an algorithm
B2 thatdistinguishesbetweenthe (𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 )-LWEproblemwith
ℓ samplesandtheuniformdistibutionintime 𝑡+𝑂(𝑚+ℓ) and
withsuccessprobability |𝑝1−𝑝2|.Becausethe (𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 )-LWE
problem withℓ samples is(𝑇,𝜖)-hard, if𝑡≤𝑇−𝑂(𝑚+ℓ), it
must hold that|𝑝1−𝑝2|≤𝜖.
Thus, if𝑡≤𝑇−𝑂(𝑚·𝑛+ℓ), we see that2𝜖≥|𝑝0−𝑝1|+
|𝑝1−𝑝2|≥ 𝑝. We have shown that any algorithmA that runs
in time𝑇−𝑂(𝑚·𝑛+ℓ) can distinguish betweenQ𝑖 and D
with probability at most2𝜖.
Algorithm 3B1, on inputA1, b1:
Compute c1← b1+⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋· u𝑖col.
Sample s2←
R
Z𝑛
𝑞, e2←
R
𝜒ℓ.
Compute c2←( A2s2+ e2)+ ⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋· u𝑖row.
Output A(A1, A2,(c1, c2)).
Algorithm 4B2, on inputA2, b2:
Sample r1←
R
Z𝑚
𝑞.
Compute c2← b2+⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋· u𝑖row.
Output A(A1, A2,(r1, c2)).
□
LemmaE.4statesthatanyalgorithmrunningintime 𝑇−𝑂(𝑛·
ℓ+𝑚)candistinguishthequeriesmadebyaclientinDoublePIR
from random vectors with success probability at most2𝜖.
Therefore, any algorithm running in time𝑇−𝑂(𝑛·ℓ+𝑚)
can distinguish the queries made by a client in DoublePIR
to any pair of indices𝑖 ∈ [𝑁] and 𝑗 ∈ [𝑁] with success
probability at most4𝜖. Thus, we have shown that DoublePIR
is(𝑇−𝑂(𝑛·ℓ+𝑚), 4𝜖)-secure. □
DoublePIR also meets the𝑄-query security definition that
we give in Appendix C.2. A hybrid argument shows that:
Corollary E.5(𝑄-query security of DoublePIR). For any
sequence𝐼∈[ 𝑁]𝑄 of𝑄 indices, we defineD𝐼 to be the query
distribution that it induces, i.e.,
D𝐼 ={( A1, A2, qu𝑘) : _, qu𝑘← Query(𝐼𝑘)}𝑘∈[𝑄]
Ifthe(𝑛,𝑞,𝜒 )-LWEproblemwith 𝑚𝑎𝑥(ℓ,𝑚)samplesis(𝑇,𝜖)-
hard,then D𝐼 is(𝑇−𝑂(𝑄·(𝑛·ℓ+𝑚)), 2𝑄𝜖)-indistinguishable
from the random query distribution.
E.3 Additional extensions and optimizations
The SimplePIR optimizations involving fast matrix multipli-
cation algorithms (that we outline in Appendix C.3) apply
to DoublePIR as well. We list some further extensions and
efficiency improvements to DoublePIR in this section.
Handling database updates.When the database contents
change, the server in DoublePIR needs to update its prepro-
cessed hints,hint𝑠 and hint𝑐 (see Remark 3.1). In more detail,
when𝑐 rows of the database matrix change (for some number
𝑐≥ 0), the server needs to:
• perform𝑂(𝑐·𝑚·𝑛+𝑐·𝜅·𝑛) operations inZ𝑞, and
• send min(𝑐·𝜅·𝑛,𝜅·𝑛2) elements inZ𝑞 back to the client.
This update procedure works as follows. In DoublePIR, the
server computes the hints ashint𝑠← Decomp(A𝑇
1· db𝑇) and
hint𝑐← hint𝑠· A2. For each rowd∈ Z𝑚
𝑞 of the database that
has changed, the server can update the corresponding columns
of hint𝑠 to beu← Decomp(A𝑇
1· d𝑇)∈ Z𝜅𝑛
𝑞 . Toupdate hint𝑐,
27

foreachrowofthedatabasethathaschanged,theserverwould
then have to add the outer product between the column vector,
u, and the corresponding row ofA2, tohint𝑐. The server can
perform this computation and send the updatedhint𝑐 back to
theclient;or,iffewerthan 𝑛rowsofthedatabasewerechanged,
theservercansendonlytheassociatedcolumnvectors, u,back
to the client (to save on bandwidth) and have the client update
its hint𝑐 locally. Again, additions and deletions of rows from
the database can be handled similarly.
Reducing the client storage, when the client makes a
bounded number of queries. If the client knows ahead
of time that it will only make𝑄≪𝑛 queries, it can reduce its
local storage to𝑄·𝜅·𝑛 (rather than𝜅·𝑛2) elements inZ𝑞. To
do so, the client samples𝑄 pairs of LWE secrets(s1, s2) in
advance (e.g., using a pseudorandom function). Then, rather
than store hint𝑐 in its entirety, the client precomputes and
stores only the information that it will need for recovery: for
eachofthe 𝑄queriesitintendstomake,theclientprecomputes
hint𝑐· s2∈ Z𝜅𝑛
𝑞 (where𝑠2 denotes the the secret key used for
the corresponding query). Finally, the client discardshint𝑐.
In theory, the client storage could be reduced even further
by applying the local rounding trick (see Appendix C.3) to
the precomputed information,hint𝑐· s2, stored by the client.
After doing so, the client would store only a single element
in Z𝑞—namely, s𝑇
1· Recomp(RoundΔ(hint𝑐· s2))—for each
query it intends to make. However, doing so would require
using a much larger value of⌊𝑞/𝑝⌋ to maintain correctness
and is thus not profitable in our parameter regime.
F Additional material on our private
set-membership data structure
F.1 Syntax and properties
We define the syntax and security properties for our approxi-
mate private set membership data structure. The data structure
is parameterized by a universeU⊆{ 0, 1}∗ of possible strings
and consists of two routines:
Setup(𝑆) →𝐷. Take as input a set of strings𝑆⊆ U and
output a data structure𝐷∈{ 0, 1}𝑎×𝑏, where𝑎,𝑏 ∈ N can
depend on|𝑆|.
Query(𝜎)→( 𝑖,𝑗). Given a candidate string𝜎∈ U, output
an index(𝑖,𝑗)∈[ 𝑎]×[ 𝑏] in the data structure𝐷 to probe.
If𝜎∈𝑆, it holds that𝐷𝑖,𝑗 = 1.
Properties.For a set𝑆⊆ U and string𝜎∈ U, define
Accept(𝑆,𝜎) := Pr
"
𝐷𝑖,𝑗 = 1 : 𝐷← Setup(𝑆)
(𝑖,𝑗)← Query(𝜎)
#
where the probability is takenonly over the randomness of the
Query algorithm.
Correctness.Anapproximatemembershiptestis correctif,for
all𝑆⊆ U and𝜎∈𝑆, Accept(𝑆,𝜎)= 1.
Constantadversarialfalse-positiverate. Anapproximatemem-
bership test hasadversarial false-positive rate𝜖 if, for all
𝑆⊆ U and𝜎∉𝑆, Accept(𝑆,𝜎)≤ 𝜖.
Oblivious reads.An approximate membership test supports
oblivious readsif the row of the data structure that theQuery
algorithmprobesrevealsnoinformationaboutthequerystring
𝜎. In other words, for all strings𝜎0,𝜎 1∈ U, the following
distributions of the row indices are identical:
{𝑖 :(𝑖,_)← Query(𝜎0)}≡{ 𝑖 :(𝑖,_)← Query(𝜎1)}.
In a deployment, to probe the element at row𝑖 and column
𝑗 in the data structure, the client sends𝑖 in the clear, along
with a PIR query for𝑗, to the server. The server executes the
PIR scheme over the𝑖-th row, and sends the PIR answer (and,
if needed, the client hint for that row) back to the client. As
the reads are oblivious, the server learns nothing about𝜎.
Performing PIR over only a row of the data structure (rather
than the whole data structure) will be the source of our𝜆-fold
performance improvements compared to related approaches.
F.2 Our approximate membership test
Our construction is parameterized by integers𝑎,𝑘 ∈ N and
a set size𝑁. Our data structure then maps the set of strings
𝑆 into a matrix of𝑎-by-(𝑘𝑁) bits. The construction uses
cryptographic hash functions𝐻1,...,𝐻 𝑎 : U→[ 𝑘𝑁], which
we model as independent random oracles [14] and which are
chosenafter the set𝑆 has been fixed.
Setup(𝑆)→ 𝐷∈{ 0, 1}𝑎×𝑘𝑁:
• Let𝐷∈{ 0, 1}𝑎×𝑘𝑁 be the all-zeros matrix.
• For each𝑖∈[ 𝑎] and𝜎∈𝑆, set𝐷𝑖,𝐻 𝑖(𝜎) = 1.
• Return𝐷.
Query(𝜎)→( 𝑖,𝑗)∈[ 𝑎]×[ 𝑘𝑁]:
• Choose𝑖←
R
[𝑎], and output(𝑖,𝐻𝑖(𝜎)).
F.3 Security analysis
PropositionF.1: Theapproximatemembership-testdatastruc-
ture(Setup, Query), on parameters𝑎≥ 2(log(|U|)+ 𝜆) and
𝑘≥ 8,iscorrect,hasfalse-positiverate 1/2,andhasoblivious
reads. The construction fails with probability2−𝜆, over the
choice of the hash functions modeled as independent random
oracles. Concretely, on|U|= 2256, taking𝑘 = 8and𝑎= 768
gives false-positive rate1/2 and failure probability2−128.
Proof. Correctnessandobliviousreadsfollowbyconstruction.
Constantadversarialfalse-positiverateisprovedinLemmaF.2,
which follows. □
LemmaF.2. Theapproximatemembership-testdatastructure
(Setup, Query) on parameters𝑎 and𝑘 has adversarial false-
positive rate at most𝑐 and fails with probability2−𝜆, for any
𝑐∈( 0, 1) that satisfies|U|  𝑎
𝑐𝑎
𝑘−𝑐𝑎≤ 2−𝜆.
28

When𝑘≥ 8and taking𝑐= 1/2, we get a data structure with
adversarial false-positive rate1/2 and failure probability at
most 2−𝜆, as long as|U| 2−𝑎/2≤ 2−𝜆.
Proof. Fix any set𝑆 ⊆ U and consider 𝐷 ← Setup(𝑆).
Consider any𝑐∈( 0, 1) that satisfies|U|  𝑎
𝑐𝑎
𝑘−𝑐𝑎≤ 2−𝜆.
Forstring 𝜎∈ U\𝑆,let Bad𝜎 betheevent,overtherandom
choiceoftherandomoracle,thatthereisasetofrows 𝑅⊆[ 𝑎]
of size𝑐𝑎, such that for all𝑖∈ 𝑅, 𝐷𝑖,𝐻 𝑖(𝜎) = 1. First, we
bound the probability, over the choice of the random oracle,
that there exists any bad string𝜎.
In particular, fix a string𝜎∈ U\𝑆. Now we analyze the
event Bad𝜎 asfollows.Eachrowof 𝐷containsatmost |𝑆|=𝑁
onesandhas 𝑘𝑁 entriestotal.Thus,anindependentlysampled
random element in𝐷 is non-zero with probability at most𝑘−1.
Foraparticularset 𝑅⊆[ 𝑎] ofsize 𝑐𝑎,let Bad𝜎,𝑅 betheevent
thatforall 𝑖∈ 𝑅,𝐷(𝑖,𝐻𝑖(𝜎)) = 1.Sincethehashfunctionsare
modelledasrandomoracles,wehavethat Pr[Bad𝜎,𝑅]≤ 𝑘−𝑐𝑎.
By a union bound over all possible sets𝑅,
Pr[Bad𝜎]= Pr
"Ü
𝑅
Bad𝜎,𝑅
#
≤
𝑎
𝑐𝑎

·𝑘−𝑐𝑎
Let Bad := Ô
𝜎∈U\𝑆 Bad𝜎.Byaunionboundoverallpossible
strings𝜎, we get that:
Pr[Bad]≤ |U|· Pr[Bad𝜎]≤ |U|·
𝑎
𝑐𝑎

·𝑘−𝑐𝑎.
So, with probability1−|U|  𝑎
𝑐𝑎
𝑘−𝑐𝑎 over the choice of the
random oracles, there do not exist any bad strings𝜎.
Now, consider the event¬Bad (i.e., there exists no bad
string). In this case, for any𝜎∈ U\𝑆, we know that, with
probability at most𝑐 (over the random coins ofQuery), the
query algorithm will sample a row𝑖 such that𝐷𝑖,𝐻 𝑖(𝜎) = 1.
Thus, we know that:
Accept(𝑆,𝜎)= Pr
𝑖
[𝐷𝑖,𝐻 𝑖(𝜎) = 1]≤ 𝑐,
where the probability is taken over the random choice of𝑖 by
the Query algorithm.
Finally, taking𝑘≥ 8 and𝑐= 1/2, we see that  𝑎
𝑎/2
≤ 2𝑎
and𝑘−𝑐𝑎≤ 2−3𝑎/2, which completes the proof. □
G Additional implementation material
InFigure15,wegiveacodelistingforthecoreofSimplePIR
(without the extensions of Section 4.3). We do not include the
code for the following helper functions:
• MatrixRand, which takes as input a matrix height, a matrix
width,andthemodulustobeusedforthematrixentries,and
returns a uniformly random matrix of the given dimensions.
• MatrixGaussian, which takes as input a matrix height, a
matrix width, and the modulus to be used for the matrix
// Data types
type Matrix struct {
rows uint
cols uint
data [] uint
}
type Params struct {
n uint // LWE secret dimension
db_height uint // DB height
db_width uint // DB width
q uint // ciphertext modulus
p uint // plaintext modulus
}
// SimplePIR methods
func Init(p Params) Matrix {
A := MatrixRand(p.db _height, p.n, p.q)
return A // 'A' is a public parameter
}
func Setup(DB Matrix, A Matrix) Matrix {
H := MatrixMul(DB, A)
return H // 'H' is the client hint
}
func Query(i uint, A Matrix,
p Params) (Matrix, Matrix) {
s := MatrixRand(p.n, 1, p.q)
err := MatrixGaussian(p.db _width, 1, p.q)
query := MatrixMul(A, s)
query.MatrixAdd(err)
query[i % p.db _width] += (p.q / p.p)
return s, query // 's' is the client state
} // 'query' is the client query
func Answer(DB Matrix, query Matrix) Matrix {
ans := MatrixMul(DB, query)
return ans // 'ans' is the server's answer
}
func Recover(i uint64, H, ans, s Matrix,
p Params) uint64 {
interm := MatrixMul(H, s)
ans.MatrixSub(interm)
noised := ans.data[i / p.db _width]
denoised := Round(noised, (p.q / p.p))
return denoised // the recovered database value
}
Figure 15: SimplePIR Go code.
29

entries,andreturnsamatrixofthegivendimensionswhose
entriesweresampledfromthediscretegaussiandistribution
(with the appropriate, hard-coded standard deviation).
• MatrixMul, which takes as input two matrices and returns
their product, over the appropriate field.
• MatrixAdd, which takes as input two matrices and returns
their sum, over the appropriate field.
• MatrixSub, which takes as input two matrices and returns
their difference, over the appropriate field.
• Round, which takes as input a value and a base and returns
the value rounded to the nearest multiple of the base, and
then divided by the base.
H Additional evaluation material
128 MB 256 MB 512 MB 1 GB 2 GB 4 GB
Database size
1 s
10 s
1 min
15 minOne-time server preprocessing
SimplePIR
DoublePIR Entire DB changed
1% of DB changed
Figure 17: Server
offline processing
time, both initially
and when a con-
tiguous 1% of the
database changes,
on databases of
increasing size with
1-bit entries.
128 MB 256 MB 512 MB 1 GB 2 GB 4 GB
Database size
1 ms
10 ms
100 msClient time
SimplePIR
DoublePIR
Query time
Recover time
Figure 18: Client
time to run
the Query and
Recover routines,
on databases of
increasing size with
1-bit entries. The
shading displays the
standard deviation,
taken across fifty
measurements.
In this section, we evaluate the server preprocessing time,
the client time, and the non-amortized communication of our
new PIR schemes.
Server and client time.Figure 17 displays the server time
to run theSetup algorithm, both when the entire database
contents change (as done at least once, at the very beginning
of a deployment) and when a small, contiguous fraction of the
database contents are updated. On a 1 GB database, the server
in SimplePIR and DoublePIR takes roughly 5 core-minutes
to run Setup over the entire database. Figure 18 gives the
client time to run theQuery and Recover algorithms. On a
1 GB database, the client in DoublePIR takes roughly 0.1
core-seconds both to generate its query and to recover the
value it queried; in SimplePIR, these costs are lower. Both the
server time and the client time are measured using a single
thread of execution (and are fully parallelizeable).
Non-amortizedcommunication. Figure20displaystheoffline
and online communication incurred by each PIR scheme, on a
1 10 100 1000 10000
Entry size (in bits)
1 MB
10 MB
100 MB
1 GB
10 GB
Offline communication
SimplePIR
DoublePIR
SealPIR
FastPIR
OnionPIR
Spiral
SpiralPack
SpiralStream
SpiralStreamPack
1 10 100 1000 10000
Entry size (in bits)
1 MB
10 MB
100 MB
1 GB
10 GB
Online communication,
for 1 query
SimplePIR
DoublePIR
SealPIR
FastPIR
OnionPIR
Spiral
SpiralPack
SpiralStream
SpiralStreamPack
Figure 20: Communication for each PIR scheme on a 1 GB database
with entries of increasing size.
1 GB database with entries of increasing length. On databases
with short entries, DoublePIR requires tens of megabytes of
offline communication, along with hundreds of kilobytes of
online communication. As soon as the entry size exceeds
roughly 100 bits, SimplePIR incurs less communication than
DoublePIR: hundreds of megabytes in the offline phase and
hundreds of kilobytes in the online phase. The schemes from
relatedworkthatachievethehighestthroughput(SpiralStream
and SpiralStreamPack) require tens of megabytes of online
communication, regardless of the entry size.
Finally, we give the throughput data displayed in Figure 9
in Table 19, along with the communication data displayed in
Figures 6 and 7 in Table 16.
I Artifact appendix
I.1 Abstract
Oursourcecodeforourtwonew,high-throughputPIRschemes,
SimplePIR and DoublePIR, is available under the MIT
open-source license at https://github.com/ahenzinger/
simplepir. SimplePIR and DoublePIR, including their ex-
tensions to support databases with long records and batch
queries (cf. Sections 4.3 and 5.2), are implemented in roughly
1,400 lines of Go code, along with 200 lines of C (for the
performance-critical matrix-multiplication routines). For each
PIR scheme, the code implements theSetup, Query, Answer,
and Recover routines. Our repository additionally contains a
suite of correctness tests and performance benchmarks. To
30

Entry size 1 bit 2 bits 4 bits 1 B 2 B 4 B 8 B 16 B 32 B 64 B 128 B 256 B 512 B 1 KB 2 KB 4 KB
SealPIR 0.31 0.31 0.31 0.31 0.31 0.31 0.31 0.31 0.31 0.31 0.31 0.31 0.49 0.67 1.2 2.1
FastPIR 3.3· 104 1.6· 104 8.2· 103 4.1· 103 2· 103 1· 103 510 260 130 64 32 16 8.1 4.1 2.1 1.3
OnionPIR 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.55
Spiral 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.2 0.23
SpiralPack 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.19 0.21
SpiralStream 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 14 7.4
SpiralStreamPack 28 28 28 28 28 28 28 28 28 28 28 28 28 28 28 28
SimplePIR 1.4 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4
DoublePIR 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.66 1 1.8 3.1 5.8 11 22 43 86 170 340 690
Table 16: Per-query communication in MB, amortized over 100 client queries, on a 1 GB database with entries of increasing size.
Num. queries SimplePIR effective DoublePIR effective
per batch throughput (GB/s) throughput (GB/s)
1 9.9 7.4
2 14.3 10.4
4 26.8 17.5
8 49.6 28.7
16 100.4 41.8
32 199.8 58.6
64 394.3 75.9
128 670.2 85.7
256 1567.0 91.7
512 2832.6 98.9
1024 3611.2 103.2
Table 19: Effective PIR throughput, with an increasing batch size and
a fixed-size hint, on a database consisting of233× 1-bit entries.
obtain our performance numbers, we run our benchmarks on
an AWS EC2c5n.metal instance.
I.2 Description & Requirements
I.2.1 Security, privacy, and ethical concerns
None.
I.2.2 How to access
The source code for SimplePIR and DoublePIR is avail-
able athttps://github.com/ahenzinger/simplepir/tree/
438b4590aceedf76c7588b03125dfc0db39e361f.
I.2.3 Hardware dependencies
We run our evaluation on an AWS EC2c5n.metal instance
running Ubuntu 22.04. However, it is possible to run the
SimplePIR and DoublePIR code on any machine with an
installation of Go and of a C compiler (see Section I.2.4),
though this might require amending the command-line flags
passed to the C compiler.
I.2.4 Software dependencies
Running SimplePIR and DoublePIR requires installations of
Go and GCC. We additionally require Python, NumPy, and
Matplotlib to generate our evaluation plots.
I.2.5 Benchmarks
None.
I.3 Set-up
I.3.1 Installation
Instructions for installing the required dependencies are given
in the Setup section of https://github.com/ahenzinger/
simplepir/blob/main/README.md. Users should install Go
(tested with version 1.19.1) and GCC (tested with version
11.2.0) to run SimplePIR and DoublePIR. Users should ad-
ditionally install Python (tested with Python3), NumPy, and
Matplotlib to generate our evaluation plots.
I.3.2 Basic Test
To run all SimplePIR and DoublePIR correctness tests, users
should run the command
go test
in thesimplepir/pir directory. The suite of correctness tests
runs SimplePIR and DoublePIR on random databases of fixed
dimensions and checks that the PIR outputs are correct. The
test suite should take roughly 2.5 minutes to run.
This command should produce logging output, followed by
this message to indicate that all tests have passed:
PASS
ok github.com/ahenzinger/simplepir/pir
I.4 Evaluation workflow
I.4.1 Major Claims
Our paper makes the following claims:
31

SimplePIRperformance. Onadatabase1GBinsizecontain-
ing 233 1-bit entries, SimplePIR has:
1. a throughput of roughly 10 GB/s/core when running on an
AWS EC2c5n.metal instance,
2. 121 MB of offline download, and
3. 242 KB of online communication.
This is shown by experiment (E1), whose results are displayed
in Table 8 in the body of our paper.
DoublePIR performance.On a database 1 GB in size con-
taining 233 1-bit entries, DoublePIR has:
1. a throughput of roughly 7.4 GB/s/core when running on an
AWS EC2c5n.metal instance,
2. 16 MB of offline download, and
3. 345 KB of online communication.
This is shown by experiment (E2), whose results are displayed
in Table 8 in the body of our paper.
Throughput with batching.SimplePIR and DoublePIR’s
throughput increases when the client makes batches of many
queries at once. This is shown by experiment (E3), whose
results are displayed in Figure 9 in the body of our paper.
Applicationevaluation. Onadatabase8GBinsizecontaining
236 1-bit entries, DoublePIR has:
1. a throughput of roughly 7 GB/s/core when running on an
AWS EC2c5n.metal instance,
2. 16 MB of offline download, and
3. 756 KB of online communication.
This is shown by experiment (E4), whose results are reported
in Section 8.2 in the body of our paper.
I.4.2 Experiments
SimplePIR performance[5 compute-minutes]: This experi-
mentbenchmarks(1)thecommunicationand(2)thethroughput
of SimplePIR, when running on a 1 GB database consisting of
233 1-bit entries.
Run the command
LOG_N=33 D=1 go test -bench SimplePirSingle
-timeout 0 -run=^$↩→
from the simplepir/pir directory. The command will run
SimplePIR5timesonadatabaseconsistingof 233 1-bitentries,
and print logging information including the communication
and the per-core throughput of each run.
For each run of SimplePIR, this experiment prints logging
information that look as follows:
• Offline download: 123572 KB , indicating that Sim-
plePIR’s offline download consists of roughly 121 MB.
• Online upload: 120.000000 KB , indicating that Sim-
plePIR’s offline upload consists of 120 KB.
• Rate: 10177.282855 MB/s , indicating that SimplePIR’s
throughput was 10,177 MB/s/core.
• Online download: 120.000000 KB , indicating that Sim-
plePIR’s offline download consists of 120 KB.
DoublePIR performance[5 compute-minutes]: This experi-
mentbenchmarks(1)thecommunicationand(2)thethroughput
of DoublePIR, when running on a 1 GB database consisting
of 233 1-bit entries.
Run the command
LOG_N=33 D=1 go test -bench DoublePirSingle
-timeout 0 -run=^$↩→
from the simplepir/pir directory. The command will run
DoublePIR5timesonadatabaseconsistingof 2331-bitentries,
and print logging information including the communication
and the per-core throughput of each run. The logging results
are interpreted the same way as in (E1).
Throughput with batching[1.5h compute-hours]: This ex-
periment benchmarks SimplePIR’s and DoublePIR’s effective,
per-core throughput, when run on batches of queries of in-
creasing size, on a 1 GB database consisting of233 1-bit
entries.
Run the command
go test -bench PirBatchLarge -timeout 0 -run=^$
fromthe simplepir/pirdirectory.Thecommandwillrunboth
SimplePIR and DoublePIR 5 times on a database consisting
of 233 1-bit entries, with batch sizes ranging from 1 to 1024,
and print logging information including the communication
and the per-core throughput of each run. The logging results
are interpreted the same way as in (E1).
This command produces the output filessimple-batch.log
and double-batch.loginthe simplepir/pirdirectory.From
the simplepir/eval directory, run the command
python3 plot.py -p batch _tput -f
../pir/simple-batch.log
../pir/double-batch.log -n SimplePIR DoublePIR
↩→
↩→
This command plots SimplePIR and DoublePIR’s effective,
per-corethroughputforvariousbatchsizes,andwritesthisplot
to the filethroughput_with_batching.pdf. This command
was used to generate Figure 9.
Application evaluation[40 compute-minutes]: This experi-
ment benchmarks (1) the communication and (2) the per-core
throughput of DoublePIR, when running on an 8 GB database
consisting of236 1-bit entries.
Run the command
LOG_N=36 D=1 go test -bench DoublePirSingle
-timeout 0 -run=^$↩→
32

from the simplepir/pir directory. The command will run
DoublePIR5timesonadatabaseconsistingof 2361-bitentries,
and print logging information including the communication
and the per-core throughput of each run. The logging results
are interpreted the same way as in (E1).
I.5 Version
Based on the LaTeX template for Artifact Evaluation
V20220926.Submission,reviewingandbadgingmethodology
followed for the evaluation of this artifact can be found at
https://secartifacts.github.io/usenixsec2023/.
33