A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for
Reputation Systems
KEVIN HOFFMAN
Purdue University
DA VID ZAGE
Purdue University
CRISTINA NITA-ROTARU
Purdue University
Reputation systems provide mechanisms to produce a metric encapsulating reputation for a given
domain for each identity within the system. These systems seek to generate an accurate assessment
in the face of various factors including but not limited to unprecedented community size and
potentially adversarial environments.
We focus on attacks and defense mechanisms in reputation systems. We present an analysis
framework that allows for general decomposition of existing reputation systems. We classify at-
tacks against reputation systems by identifying which system components and design choices are
the target of attacks. We survey defense mechanisms employed by existing reputation systems.
Finally, we analyze several landmark systems in the peer-to-peer domain, characterizing their
individual strengths and weaknesses. Our work contributes to understanding 1) which design
components of reputation systems are most vulnerable, 2) what are the most appropriate de-
fense mechanisms and 3) how these defense mechanisms can be integrated into existing or future
reputation systems to make them resilient to attacks.
Categories and Subject Descriptors: C.0 [ General]: Systems speciﬁcation methodology; C.2.0
[Computer-Communication Networks]: General— Security and protection; C.2.4 [ Computer-
Communication Networks ]: Distributed Systems— Distributed applications
General Terms: Design, Reliability, Security, Theory
Additional Key Words and Phrases: reputation, trust, incentives, peer-to-peer, attacks, collusion,
attack mitigation, defense techniques
1. INTRODUCTION
The rapid growth of communication networks such as the Internet and wireless
mesh networks has spurred the development of numerous collaborative applica-
tions. Reputation and trust play a pivotal role in such applications by enabling
multiple parties to establish relationships that achieve mutual beneﬁt. In general,
Permission to make digital/hard copy of all or part of this material without fee for personal
or classroom use provided that the copies are not made or distributed for proﬁt or commercial
advantage, the ACM copyright/server notice, the title of the publication, and its date appear, and
notice is given that copying is by permission of the ACM, Inc. To copy otherwise, to republish,
to post on servers, or to redistribute to lists requires prior speciﬁc permission and/or a fee.
c© 2007 ACM 0000-0000/2007/0000-0001 $5.00
ACM Computing Surveys, V ol. V, No. N, Month 2007, Pages 1–34.

2 · Hoﬀman et al.
reputation is the opinion of the public towards a person, a group of people, an
organization, or a resource. In the context of collaborative applications such as
peer-to-peer systems, reputation represents the opinions nodes in the system have
about their peers and peer-provided resources. Reputation allows parties to build
trust, or the degree to which one party has conﬁdence in another within the con-
text of a given purpose or decision. By harnessing the community knowledge in the
form of feedback, reputation-based trust systems help participants decide who to
trust, encourage trustworthy behavior, and deter dishonest participation by provid-
ing a means through which reputation and ultimately trust can be quantiﬁed and
disseminated [Resnick et al. 2000]. Without such mechanisms, opportunism can
erode the foundations of these collaborative applications and lead to peer mistrust
and eventual system failure [Akerlof 1970].
A rich variety of environments and applications has motivated research in rep-
utation systems. Within the context of peer-to-peer eCommerce interactions such
as eBay, Amazon, uBid, and Yahoo, recent research has shown that reputation sys-
tems facilitate fraud avoidance and better buyer satisfaction [Houser and Wooders
2006; Resnick et al. 2006; Xiong and Liu 2003; Lin et al. 2005]. Not only do rep-
utation systems help protect the buyer, but they have also been shown to reduce
transaction-speciﬁc risks and therefore generate price premiums for reputable sell-
ers [Ba and Pavlou 2002]. More recently, reputation systems have been proposed
as a means to ﬁlter out inauthentic content (pollution) for ﬁle-sharing applications
[Walsh and Sirer 2006], a method for selecting usable network resources [Aringhieri
et al. 2006], a means to identify high-quality contributions to Wikipedia [Adler and
de Alfaro 2007], and a way to punish [Adar and Huberman 2000] or prevent [Ham
and Agha 2005; Piatek et al. 2007] free-riders in content dissemination networks.
The success of a reputation system is measured by how accurately the calculated
reputations predict the quality of future interactions. This is diﬃcult to achieve
in an environment where any party can attempt to exploit the system to its own
beneﬁt. Some attacks have a narrow focus and only aﬀect the reputation of the
misbehaving identity or a few selected targets. Other attacks have a much broader
inﬂuence, aﬀecting large percentages of the identities within the system. Centralized
or implicitly trusted elements of the reputation system are more prone to attack due
to their identiﬁability and key role in the functioning of the system. The impact of
attacks against reputation systems reaches beyond just the manipulation of virtual
numbers, but turns into dollars fraudulently lost and ruined business reputations
[Khopkar et al. 2005].
This paper is the ﬁrst survey focusing on the characterization of reputation sys-
tems and threats facing them from a computer science perspective. Our work
contributes to understanding which reputation system design components are vul-
nerable, what are the most appropriate defense mechanisms, and how these defense
mechanisms can be integrated into existing or future reputation systems to make
them resilient to attacks. Speciﬁcally:
(1) We propose an analytical framework by which reputation systems can be de-
composed, analyzed, and compared using a common set of metrics. This frame-
work facilitates insights into the strengths and weaknesses of diﬀerent systems
and comparisons within a uniﬁed framework.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 3
(2) We classify attacks against reputation systems, analyzing what system com-
ponents are exploited by each attack category. We elucidate the relevance of
these attacks by providing speciﬁc examples based on real systems.
(3) We characterize existing defense mechanisms for reputation systems, discussing
their applicability to diﬀerent system components and their eﬀectiveness at
mitigating the identiﬁed attacks.
(4) We analyze each system based on our analytical framework, drawing new in-
sights into reputation system design. We also discuss each system’s strengths
and weaknesses based on our attack classiﬁcation and defense characterization.
Roadmap: The rest of the paper is organized as follows. We discuss related work
in Section 2 and characterize the fundamental dimensions of reputation systems in
Section 3. We describe attacks against reputation systems components and defense
strategies in Sections 4 and 5, respectively. We analyze several well-known reputa-
tion systems in Section 6. Finally, we present concluding remarks in Section 7.
2. RELATED WORK
Previous research in the area has presented an overview of the design issues of rep-
utation systems in peer-to-peer networks [Marti and Garcia-Molina 2006], surveyed
the broader issue of trust management [Suryanarayana and Taylor 2004], provided
an overview of deployed reputation systems [Jøsang et al. 2007], and surveyed
a subset of attacks on and theoretical defense techniques for reputation systems
[Friedman et al. 2007].
A method to categorize peer-to-peer reputation systems is presented in [Marti and
Garcia-Molina 2006]. Their work serves as an introduction to reputation systems
and design issues relating to their use in peer-to-peer applications. Unlike their
work, we decompose systems along three dimensions, to provide further insight
into how implementation issues aﬀect the eﬀectiveness of the system. Addition-
ally, we contribute a classiﬁcation of attack strategies and survey of known defense
techniques and their strengths and weaknesses.
In [Suryanarayana and Taylor 2004], the authors survey trust management in
the context of peer-to-peer applications. The scope of their survey is broader and
includes trust management systems that are not based on reputation. The authors
analyze eight reputation-based trust management systems with respect to ﬁve types
of threats and eleven diﬀerent characteristics. In contrast, in this survey we focus
solely on reputation systems, allowing us to deﬁne an analysis framework and attack
classiﬁcation speciﬁc to reputation systems, and to more comprehensively survey
the reputation system literature.
The authors in [Jøsang et al. 2007] focus on surveying the calculation mechanisms
and give greater emphasis to discussing deployed systems rather than directly sur-
veying the research literature. Their survey is presented in the context of a broader
discussion of the meaning of trust and reputation. Our work presents a broader
analysis framework for reputation systems and also focuses more on the analysis of
attacks against reputation systems.
In [Friedman et al. 2007], the authors provide an overview of reputation systems
for environments with strategic users and provide theoretical solutions to three spe-
ciﬁc threats: whitewashing, fake feedback, and dishonest feedback. In our work,
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

4 · Hoﬀman et al.
we examine a broader range of attacks, analyze how each of these attacks aﬀect
diﬀerent design choices in the reputation systems, and review a myriad of possi-
ble solutions for each attack, including solutions which are feasible in distributed
environments.
A large corpus of work on reputation systems exists in the management, eco-
nomic, and behavioral literature. Our work does not cover all these areas, but
focuses on the technical elements of peer-to-peer systems and resilience to network-
centric attack rather than the social and economic elements. In [Dellarocas 2003],
Dellarocas considers the role of reputation systems, their relation to more tradi-
tional methods of reputation assessment, their social and economic impact, and how
they can be understood in the context of game theory and economics. The work
gives insights into why reputation systems do or do not work from a human per-
spective and presents how insights from management science, sociology, psychology,
economics, and game theory must be considered beyond computer science when de-
signing new reputation systems. Our work is complementary: whereas Dellarocas
provides insight into the broader factors aﬀecting the operational environments of
reputation systems more from a management perspective, we consider the perspec-
tive of a reputation system builder and therein provide insight into the composition
of the reputation system itself and also a characterization of corresponding threats
and defense mechanisms.
3. ANALYSIS FRAMEWORK
Due to their common purpose, reputation systems naturally share similar structural
patterns. Understanding these similarities and developing an analysis framework
serves a twofold purpose. First, it provides greater insight into prior research, facil-
itating common ground comparison between diﬀerent systems. Second, it provides
insights into the fundamental strengths and weaknesses of certain design choices,
contributing to the future design of attack-resilient reputation systems.
We identify the following three dimensions as being fundamental to any reputa-
tion system:
—Formulation. The ideal mathematical underpinnings of the reputation metric
and the sources of input to that formulation. For example, a system may accept
positive and negative feedback information, weighted as +1 and −1 and deﬁne
an identity’s reputation to be the summation of all of its corresponding feedback.
—Calculation. The algorithm to calculate the mathematical formulation for a given
set of constraints (physical distribution of participants, type of communication
substrate, etc.). For example, the algorithm to calculate the formulation could
specify that a random set of peers is queried and the feedback received for each
identity tallied.
—Dissemination. The mechanism that allows system participants to obtain the
reputation metrics resultant from the calculation. Such a mechanism may involve
storing the values and disseminating them to the participants. For example,
a system might choose to use a distributed hash table to store the calculated
reputation values and a gossip protocol to distribute new information.
Figure 1 presents the general structure of a reputation system, including the
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 5
Inferred Data 
Indirect Observations 
Direct Observations 
Manual Feedback 
Formulation &
Calculation Dissemination 
Reputation 
Fig. 1. Depiction of how a reputation system operates. The large ovals represent
the reputation system itself, normally consisting of many diﬀerent computers acting
as a distributed system.
location of each of the fundamental dimensions. The overarching goal of a repu-
tation system is to produce a metric encapsulating reputation for a given domain
for each identity within the system. Each system receives input from various types
of sources. Based on this input, a system produces a reputation metric through
the use of a calculation algorithm. Once calculated, reputation metric values are
then disseminated throughout the system in advance or on demand as the metric
values are requested. Finally, higher level systems or users can then utilize these
reputation metric values in their decision making processes for penalties or rewards
in order to achieve the goals of the user application.
3.1 Formulation
Formulation of a reputation system is the abstract mathematical speciﬁcation of
how the available information should be transformed into a usable metric. This
speciﬁcation may be made through an explicit equation, or implicitly through de-
scribing an algorithm that will result in the correct values. The formulation de-
termines the theoretical properties of the system and thus the upper bound on its
resilience to attacks. As a result, the formulation is a critical component since any
weakness in the design of the formulation allows malicious manipulation of the met-
ric values. We identify and discuss three important components of the formulation:
the source of the information, the type of information, and the reputation metric.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

6 · Hoﬀman et al.
Reputation 
System 
Calculation 
Dissemination Formulation 
Information 
Type 
Temporal 
Aspects 
Source of 
Information 
Determinism Efficiency Distribution 
Storage 
Durability 
Redundancy Determinism Reputation 
Metric 
Distribution 
(M) Manual 
(AI) Automatic 
Indirect 
(AD) Automatic 
Direct 
(P) Positive 
(N) Negative 
(B) Binary 
(D) Discrete 
(C) Continuous 
(Y) Strong 
Emphasis 
(N) Not a Strong 
Emphasis 
(D) Deterministic 
(P) Probabilistic 
(B) Binary 
(D) Discrete 
(C) Continuous 
(C) Centralized 
(D) Distributed 
(D) Deterministic 
(P) Probabilistic 
(C) Centralized 
(D) Distributed 
(D) Deterministic 
(P) Probabilistic 
(T) Transient 
(P) Permanent 
(F) Full 
(P) Partial 
(N) None 
Fig. 2. Visualization of analysis framework for reputation systems
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 7
Source of Information. A core component of the formulation of reputation is the
source of the raw information used as inputs to the algorithm. The source can
either be a manual or an automatic source.
Manual sources are obtained from human feedback, usually in the form of user
ratings of other identities based on the results of a single transaction such as the
feedback within eBay [Houser and Wooders 2006], a speciﬁc time period [Singh
and Liu 2003], or arbitrary feedback [Zhou and Hwang 2007]. Since these sources
are naturally qualitative, the formulation component must specify some method of
converting the qualitative metric into a quantitative one. For example, a user may
feel satisﬁed with the ultimate outcome of a transaction, but be dissatisﬁed with
the timeliness of it. The formulation speciﬁes how the user can convert this quali-
tative information into quantitative information, such as by giving them the choice
of giving a negative, neutral, or positive rating [Houser and Wooders 2006]. Other
proposals include the use of Bayesian procedures [Aringhieri et al. 2006; Buchegger
and Le Boudec 2004] or fuzzy decision logic [Song et al. 2005] to transform the user
feedback into ratio scaled variables. The formulation may also allow the user to
tag the quantitative metric with qualitative information under the intention of ag-
gregating this information with the reputation metric for later human consumption
[Houser and Wooders 2006].
Automatic sources are obtained automatically either via direct or indirect obser-
vation. Direct, automatic sources of information result from data directly observed
by an identity, such as the success or failure of an interaction, the direct obser-
vations of cheating, or the measurement of resource utilization by neighbors in a
peer-to-peer network. Information that is obtained second-hand or is inferred from
ﬁrst-hand information is classiﬁed as an indirect, automatic source. Indirect, au-
tomatic input sources are relevant in many modern reputation systems which are
developed to have a notion of the transitivity of trust. Nodes share information
in order to combat the sparsity of ﬁrst-hand information [Xiong et al. 2005] or to
further reﬁne the reputation metric [Marti and Garcia-Molina 2004; Xiong and Liu
2003]. Also, indirect sources of information are important in systems such as Su-
perTrust [Dimitriou et al. 2007], in which the outputs of one tier are used as inputs
to the next higher tier.
Information Type. Another component of the formulation is whether the source
information includes positive (trust building) events, negative (trust diminishing)
events, or both. This design choice fundamentally inﬂuences the applications for
which a given reputation system is most eﬀective as well as determining the classes
of attacks that are relevant to the system. For example, a system that only considers
positive events will be immune to attacks where malicious identities try to falsely
degrade others’ reputations [Marti and Garcia-Molina 2004]. While it may seem
beneﬁcial to only consider one type of information in order to limit the possible
attacks on the system, this also limits the ﬂexibility of the system as well as the
ability for honest peers to counteract the attacks that are still relevant [Guha et al.
2004]. Continuing the example above, honest participants would be unable to give
negative feedback regarding those identities that are falsely promoting themselves.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

8 · Hoﬀman et al.
Reputation Metric. The most important component of the formulation dimension
is the mathematical or algorithmic representation of the reputation. The reputation
metric can be classiﬁed as either binary, discrete, or continuous. A binary repre-
sentation of trust converts the qualitative notion of reputable versus non-reputable
into a numerical format and is utilized by systems like the ones proposed by Xiong
and Liu [Xiong and Liu 2003] and Guha et al. [Guha et al. 2004]. Some systems,
such as Scrivener [Nandi et al. 2005] and XRep [Damiani et al. 2002], utilize dis-
crete metrics which have various predeﬁned levels of reputability and allow for a
more ﬂexible application of the reputation information since diﬀerent actions can
correspond to diﬀerent levels of reputability. Finally, a metric can be represented in
as a continuous variable, such as is done in many of the newer systems [Aringhieri
et al. 2006; Walsh and Sirer 2006; Li and Wu 2007]. Continuous variables are often
the easiest representation to compute since most formulations result in real number
results.
Certain systems, such as PeerTrust [Xiong and Liu 2003] and EigenTrust [Kam-
var et al. 2003], will choose to convert a continuous metric into a binary metric via
heuristics or statistical measures, since it is often easier for users to base their deci-
sions on a metric with predeﬁned intervals. This is especially true if the continuous
metric is not a linear representation of reputation [Kamvar et al. 2003].
Many systems consider the change of reputation over time, trying to balance the
tradeoﬀ between resiliency to attacks versus the acceptance of new or previously
misbehaving identities. While it may seem that greater resiliency is more desirable
than the easy acceptance of new identities, this may hamper overall user satisfaction
and system utility as well as render systems deployed in less stable environments
from functioning eﬀectively [Morselli et al. 2004]. For example, if one input to the
formulation is whether a peer is forwarding data correctly, even honest peers may
be seen as having a low reputation and be denied service due to transient network
conditions [Ham and Agha 2005].
Along with the domain and granularity of the reputation metric, such metrics can
also be classiﬁed as symmetric or asymmetric [Cheng and Friedman 2005; Altman
and Tennenholtz 2005a; 2006; Friedman et al. 2007]. If a reputation system utilizes
a symmetric reputation metric, such as the one used in the PageRank [Cheng and
Friedman 2006] algorithm, there is one, global reputation value for each node in
the system. In the case of systems using an asymmetric reputation metric, each
node has an individual view of the overall reputation in the network. Systems such
as EigenTrust [Kamvar et al. 2003] and PowerTrust [Zhou and Hwang 2007] utilize
asymmetric reputation metrics in their formulation. Not only is the distinction
between symmetric or asymmetric interesting for classifying systems, but, as we
discuss in Section 5.1, it also plays an important part in reasoning about the attack-
resistance of reputation systems.
3.2 Calculation
As depicted in Figure 1, the calculation dimension is the concrete part of the repu-
tation system that receives input information and produces the reputation metric
values. While the formulation is an idealized method for determining a reputation
value, the calculation dimension characterizes how the formulation is implemented
within the constraints of a particular reputation system. This dimension strives
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 9
to be accurate to the reputation metric formulation while remaining practical to
implement and resilient to malicious attack. We identify two components relevant
to the reputation calculation: the calculation structure (centralized or distributed)
and calculation approach (deterministic or probabilistic).
Note. At ﬁrst glance, it may seem that the calculation dimension is a direct
result of the formulation. However, the physical constraints of the system may
make the mapping between the formulation and calculation dimensions non-trivial.
For example, the EigenTrust algorithm [Kamvar et al. 2003] can be represented
as the centralized computation of the left eigenvector of a matrix of trust values,
but to calculate this in a scalable fashion, the formulation had to be decomposed
into an eﬃcient distributed algorithm. Another factor causing this mapping to be
non-trivial is the need to be resilient to malicious manipulation of values during
the actual calculation. Even assuming that all source information is completely
accurate, a malicious participant can try to manipulate the values during the cal-
culation stage. If the system does not account for this possibility, reputation values
may be manipulated without detection.
Calculation Structure. The reputation system can be structured to calculate the
reputation metric via a centralized authority or across multiple distributed partic-
ipants. A centralized authority often leads to a simple solution with less potential
for manipulation by malicious outsiders. Many eCommerce businesses such as eBay
have successfully deployed centralized reputation systems which allow for the long-
term storage and internal auditing of all reputation data [Houser and Wooders
2006]. However, a centralized approach relies on the assumption that the system
participants completely trust the centralized authority which in turn must be cor-
rect and always available. If the centralized authority is not carefully designed, it
can become a single point of failure for the entire system [Lee et al. 2003]. Central-
ized systems are especially susceptible to attacks on availability, which are discussed
further in Section 4.2.5. In addition, such an approach suﬀers from the lack of scal-
ability, especially if the formulation is complex or the information is obtained from
a wide range of possibly high latency sources.
In the open environment of most modern peer-to-peer applications, peers do not
have a centralized authority or repository for maintaining or distributing reputation.
Instead, most reputation systems calculate global reputation in a fully distributed
manner [Kamvar et al. 2003; Buchegger and Le Boudec 2004; Walsh and Sirer
2006; Li and Wu 2007]. Although these distributed calculations are inherently more
complex, they scale well [Feldman et al. 2004], avoid single points of failure in the
system [Lee et al. 2003], and balance load across multiple nodes [Marti and Garcia-
Molina 2004]. Such designs must ensure that participants converge upon a usable
solution as well as prevent malicious manipulation from degrading the performance
of the entire system. The complexity of data and entity authentication in systems
lacking a centralized authority and the reliance on multiple system participants
provide opportunities for attackers to subvert the reputation calculation.
Calculation Approach. Reputation systems implement calculation by using either
deterministic or probabilistic approaches. The output of a deterministic calculation
can be determined solely from knowledge of the input, with very precise meaning of-
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

10 · Hoﬀman et al.
ten attached to this output. Deterministic calculations for global reputation values
are often only practical for centralized calculations, unless the scope of the formu-
lation is narrow, identities only incorporate feedback for a small subset of peers,
or the total size of the system is small. Additionally, a deterministic calculation
can be used in systems where each individual node calculates its own view of other
nodes’ reputation values and there is not a single global reputation for each node
[Marti and Garcia-Molina 2004].
Probabilistic approaches, often known as randomized algorithms, were proposed
to address some of the limitations posed by deterministic calculations. These algo-
rithms rely on sources of randomness during the calculation process, causing their
output to be predictable only within certain error bounds.
It is interesting to note that even when formulations are deterministic and thus
would seem to imply a deterministic calculation, the actual calculation may have
to be implemented probabilistically. For example, the EigenTrust [Kamvar et al.
2003] formulation represents reputation as the eigenvalues of a matrix (which is a
deterministic formulation), but the distributed calculation is probabilistic in order
for the algorithm to scale. Robust randomized formulations rely on statistical
mechanisms, such as Markov models [Kamvar et al. 2003] and Bayesian models
[Buchegger and Le Boudec 2004], which attach error bounds to and give meaning
to the randomized algorithm.
3.3 Dissemination
Once reputation has been calculated, it needs to be readily accessible to interested
parties while remaining resilient to alteration. Calculated values must be eﬃciently
disseminated to other recipients or made available upon request. These responsi-
bilities of a reputation system fall within the dissemination dimension. Although
calculation and dissemination are often intertwined in the implementation, it is use-
ful to separate them for analysis purposes. We discuss the following four aspects of
the dissemination dimension: the dissemination structure, dissemination approach,
storage strategies, and dissemination redundancy.
Dissemination Structure. Centralized dissemination mechanisms involve a cen-
tral authority storing and disseminating calculated values. The central authority
may actually be implemented via clusters of computers, but this remains classiﬁed
as centralized since the entire structure is controlled exclusively by one entity. For
example, in order for eBay to scale, it must be implemented by high availability
clusters. However, logically eBay utilizes a centralized authority to disseminate
the calculated reputation information. In a centralized dissemination the central
authority has greater power to protect the integrity of the process, but then also it
becomes a single point of weakness – if the central authority is fully or partially com-
promised due to external attackers, insiders, or intentional misconduct the damage
to the reputation system is much higher than if the process was distributed.
In a distributed dissemination, each participant is responsible for some portion
of the calculated reputation values. The distribution of responsibility may be sym-
metrical (e.g. distributed hash tables (DHTs) [Ratnasamy et al. 2000; Stoica et al.
2001; Zhao et al. 2001; Rowstron and Druschel 2001]) or asymmetrical (e.g. power-
law peer-to-peer networks [Dimitriou et al. 2007; Matei et al. 2002]). Distributed
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 11
dissemination is inherently more vulnerable to manipulation, and often employs
data redundancy, cryptographic mechanisms, or other measures to preserve metric
integrity. Distributed mechanisms are also more diﬃcult to implement and test
properly, and may thus be more vulnerable to exploitation [Dahan and Sato 2007].
Dissemination Approach. The communication pattern of dissemination mecha-
nisms can be characterized as either deterministic or probabilistic. Examples of
deterministic communication mechanisms include distribution hierarchies such as
those in SuperTrust [Dimitriou et al. 2007] and DHTs such as those employed by
EigenTrust [Kamvar et al. 2003], PowerTrust [Zhou and Hwang 2007] and PeerTrust
[Xiong and Liu 2003]. Probabilistic communication techniques include epidemic-
based dissemination techniques such as probabilistic broadcast [Eugster et al. 2001;
Walsh and Sirer 2006] and ﬂooding [Marti and Garcia-Molina 2004; Lee et al. 2003].
Storage Durability. Transient storage is deﬁned to be any non-durable, random
access memory, whereas permanent storage is any storage in which data is preserved
even during periods without power. Depending on the volatility of the system com-
ponents and the computational complexity of the calculation, it may be beneﬁcial
to store calculated reputation values in permanent storage for retrieval later. Sys-
tems such as PowerTrust [Zhou and Hwang 2007] and TrustMe [Singh and Liu 2003]
include long-term temporal information in their formulations and require perma-
nent storage in order to be resilient to failures. PowerTrust relies on the ability to
migrate data in a DHT to preserve historical data while TrustMe provides anony-
mous storage and migration protocols. On the other end of the spectrum, systems
such as ARA [Ham and Agha 2005] calculate reputation values based on a small
subset of recent transactions, in which case long-term global storage is unnecessary.
Whether or not a system uses permanent storage is more of an implementation
issue than a core component of a reputation system. Permanent storage may be
required by the calculation mechanisms to detect slow changes in behavior over
long periods of time. Also, permanent storage must be guarded against malicious
manipulation, physical data corruption, and data loss [Singh and Liu 2003].
Dissemination Redundancy. The degree of redundancy built into the dissem-
ination mechanisms is a tradeoﬀ between resiliency to manipulation and stor-
age/communication eﬃciency. Redundancy can be employed in many of the com-
ponents of the dissemination dimension, such as having redundant messaging in
communications patterns or duplicate backups of stored values. For example, the
TrustMe [Singh and Liu 2003] system assumes a copy of the reputation values are
stored in several places. Many of the the modern reputation systems use messag-
ing protocols with redundant messages to help ensure message delivery and provide
some resiliency to malicious nodes at the cost of increased communication overhead.
Each node requests and receives multiple copies of a reputation value (from diﬀer-
ent storage locations), which increases the link stress of the network when viewed
in comparison to traditional unicast messaging from a single storage location. Less
eﬃcient methods of implementing redundancy (e.g. complete duplication of data)
are often favored over more theoretically desirable methods, such as Reed-Solomon
codes [Reed and Solomon 1960], as these methods are often easier to implement.
Finally, systems diﬀer in how they resolve redundancy to produce a ﬁnal reputation
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

12 · Hoﬀman et al.
metric. Possibilities include but are not limited to leaving the redundancy unre-
solved and presenting the user with the raw information, majority voting [Kamvar
et al. 2003], and using weighted averages [Li and Wu 2007].
4. ATTACKS ON REPUTATION SYSTEMS
In this section, we discuss attacks against reputation systems. We ﬁrst state our
assumptions about attackers and then discuss ﬁve separate classes of attack scenar-
ios. We highlight both the attacks mechanisms and the system components that
are exploited during each of the attacks.
4.1 Attacker Model
Several characteristics determine the capability of the attacker. They include: the
location of the attacker in relation to the system (insider vs outsider), if the attacker
acts alone or as part of a coalition of attackers, and whether the attacker is active
or passive.
The open nature of reputation systems and their accompanying peer-to-peer ap-
plications lead us to assume all attackers are insiders. Insiders are those entities
who have legitimate access to the system and can participate according to the sys-
tem speciﬁcations (i.e. authenticated entities within the system), while an outsider
is any unauthorized or illegitimate entity in the system who may or may not be
identiﬁable. While reputation systems often employ some form of authentication to
prevent unauthorized access, an attacker can obtain multiple identities, also known
as the Sybil attack [Douceur 2002]. In addition, since reputation systems push trust
to the fringes of the Internet where end-nodes are more likely to be compromised
[Survey 2005], they are more vulnerable to insider attacks.
We assume that attackers are motivated either by selﬁsh or malicious intent.
Selﬁsh (or rational) attackers manipulate reputation values for their own beneﬁt,
while malicious attackers attempt to degrade the reputations of others or impact
the availability of the reputation system itself.
In general, attackers can either work alone or in coalitions. Although both sce-
narios are possible and relevant with respect to reputation systems, we are primarily
concerned with attacks caused by coalitions of possibly coordinated attackers. Co-
ordinated attacks are more diﬃcult to detect and defend against because attackers
can exhibit multi-faceted behavior that allows them to partially hide within their
malicious coalition. We note that while coordinated attacks caused by multiple
Sybil identities are a danger to any distributed system, even without such attacks,
reputations systems are vulnerable to malicious collectives of nodes.
We consider all attacks to be active since any form of attack on the reputation
system requires interaction with the system, such as injecting false information,
modifying entrusted information, refusing to forward information, deviating from
the algorithmic processes, or actively attempting to subvert the availability of the
system.
4.2 Attack Classiﬁcation
We classify attacks against reputation systems based on the goals of the reputation
systems targeted by attacks. The goal of a reputation system is to ensure that the
reputation metrics correctly reﬂect the actions taken by participants in the system
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 13
and cannot be maliciously manipulated. This is not achieved if participants can
falsely improve their own reputation or degrade the reputations of others. As a
result of the attacks, misbehaving participants can obtain unwarranted service or
honest participants can be prevented from obtaining service. Besides targeting the
accuracy of the reputation system, malicious participants can target the availability
of the system itself.
We identify several classes of attacks:
—Self-Promoting - Attackers manipulate their own reputation by falsely increasing
it.
—Whitewashing - Attackers escape the consequence of abusing the system by using
some system vulnerability to repair their reputation. Once they restore their
reputation, the attackers can continue the malicious behavior.
—Slandering - Attackers manipulate the reputation of other nodes by reporting
false data to lower the reputation of the victim nodes.
—Orchestrated - Attackers orchestrate their eﬀorts and employ several of the above
strategies.
—Denial of Service - Attackers cause denial of service by preventing the calculation
and dissemination of reputation values.
Below, we discuss in detail the attack mechanisms, identifying the reputation system
components that are exploited during the attack.
4.2.1 Self-promoting. In self-promoting attacks, attackers seek to falsely aug-
ment their own reputation. Such attacks are only possible in systems that consider
positive feedback in the formulation. Fundamentally, this is an attack against the
formulation, but attackers may also exploit weaknesses in the calculation or dis-
semination dimensions to falsely increase reputation metric values.
Self-promotion attacks can be performed by a lone identity or organized in groups
of collaborating identities. One very basic form of the attack occurs when an at-
tacker fabricates fake positive feedback about itself or modiﬁes its own reputation
during the dissemination. Systems lacking mechanisms to provide data authenti-
cation and integrity are vulnerable to such attacks as they are not able to discern
between fabricated and legitimate feedbacks.
However, even if source data is authenticated using cryptographic mechanisms,
self-promotion attacks are possible if disparate identities or a single physical iden-
tity acquiring multiple identities through a Sybil attack [Douceur 2002] collude to
promote each other. Systems that do not require participants to provide proof
of interactions which result in positive reputations are particularly vulnerable to
this attack. To perform the attack, colluding identities mutually participate in
events that generate real feedback, resulting in high volumes of positive feedback
for the colluding participants. Because the colluders are synthesizing events that
produce veriﬁable feedback at a collective rate faster than the average, they are
able to improve their reputations faster than honest participants or counter the
eﬀects of possible negative feedback. Such patterns of attack have been observed
in the Maze ﬁle sharing system [Lian et al. 2007]. Attackers that are also interact-
ing with other identities in honest ways are known as moles [Feldman et al. 2004].
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

14 · Hoﬀman et al.
Colluding attackers can also contribute further to the self-promotion of each other
by manipulating the computation dimension when aggregating reputation values.
Techniques to mitigate self-promoting attacks include requiring reputation sys-
tems to provide accountability, proof of successful transactions, and the ability to
limit or prevent an attacker from obtaining multiple identities. The computation
dimension should also include mechanisms to prevent colluding adversaries from
subverting the computation and storage of the reputation values. Complementar-
ily, the impact of the attacks can be decreased by detecting and reacting to groups
of colluders that interact almost exclusively with each other. However, ﬁnding
these colluders, which can be formulated as ﬁnding a clique of a certain size within
a graph, is known to be NP-complete and only heuristic-based solutions have been
proposed so far [Cormen et al. 2001].
4.2.2 Whitewashing. Whitewashing attacks occur when attackers abuse the sys-
tem for short-term gains by letting their reputation degrade and then escape the
consequences of abusing the system by using some system vulnerability to repair
their reputation. Often attackers will attempt to re-enter the system with a new
identity and a fresh reputation [Lai et al. 2003]. The attack is facilitated by the
availability of cheap pseudonyms and the fact that reciprocity is much harder to
maintain with easily changed identiﬁers [Friedman and Resnick 2001].
This attack fundamentally targets the reputation system’s formulation. Formu-
lations that are based exclusively on negative feedback are especially vulnerable
to this type of behavior since newcomers have equal reputation metric values to
participants which have shown good long-term behavior. Separately, a reputation
system using either type of feedback (positive and/or negative) is vulnerable if the
formulation relies exclusively on long-term history without discriminating between
old and recent actions. If an attacker is able to generate a beneﬁcial reputation
based solely on history, it can perform short duration malicious attacks with little
risk of negative consequences as the previous history will heavily outweigh current
actions. This can have a large impact on the system as the malicious node will
continue to have a high reputation for a substantial period of time during which
the system is slow to identify the malicious behavior and unable to suﬃciently lower
the reputation of the malicious node. In systems with formulations that include
positive feedback, attackers may have to behave honestly for an initial period of
time to build up a positive reputation before starting the self-serving attack. At-
tackers that follow this pattern are also known as traitors [Marti and Garcia-Molina
2006].
Whitewashing attacks may be combined with other types of attacks to make each
attack more eﬀective. For example, in systems with both positive and negative feed-
back, concurrently executing a self-promoting attack will lengthen the duration of
eﬀectiveness of a whitewashing attack. Likewise, whitewashing identities may slan-
der those identities that give negative feedback about the attacker so that their
negative feedback will appear less reputable since many systems weight the opin-
ions of an identity by its current level of trustworthiness. In this case, slandering
minimizes the amount of whitewashing an attacker must perform to maintain a
good reputation.
Mitigating whitewashing attacks requires reputation systems to use a formulation
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 15
that does not result in the same reputation for both newcomers and participants
that have shown good behavior for a long time, that takes into account limited
history, and that limits users from quickly switching identities or obtaining multiple
identities.
4.2.3 Slandering. In slandering attacks , one or more identities falsely produce
negative feedback about other identities. As with self-promoting attacks, systems
that do not authenticate the origin of the feedback are extremely vulnerable to
slander. In general, these attacks target the formulation dimension of a reputation
system.
The attack can be conducted both by a single attacker and a coalition of attackers.
As typically the eﬀect of a single slandering node is small, especially if the system
limits the rate at which valid negative feedback can be produced, slandering attacks
primarily involve collusion between several identities. Depending on the application
of the system, slandering attacks may be more or less severe than self-promotion
attacks. For example, in high-value monetary systems, the presence of even small
amounts of negative feedback may severely harm an identity’s reputation and ability
to conduct business [Ba and Pavlou 2002].
The lack of authentication and high sensitivity of the formulation to negative
feedback are the main factors that facilitate slandering attacks. Reputation systems
must consider the inherent trade-oﬀs in the sensitivity of the formulation to negative
feedback. If the sensitivity is lower, then the formulation is robust against malicious
collectives falsely slandering a single entity, but it allows entities to exhibit bad
behavior for a longer time, for the same decrease in reputation. On the other hand,
if sensitivity is higher, the bad behavior of a single identity can be punished quickly,
but honest identities are more susceptible to attacks from malicious collectives. If
malicious collectives are well-behaved except to slander a single identity it may
be diﬃcult to distinguish that slander from the scenario where the single identity
actually deserved the bad feedback that was received.
Defense techniques to prevent false feedback include employing stricter feedback
authentication mechanisms, validating input to make sure that feedback is actu-
ally tied to some transaction, and incorporating methods to limit the number of
identities malicious nodes can assume.
Systems may also limit the impact of slandering attacks by using formulations
that compute reputations based exclusively on direct information. However, this is
not possible in reputation systems with sparse interaction, where trust inference is
needed [Xiong et al. 2005]. In such systems, the trust inference mechanisms must
be robust to malicious attacks.
4.2.4 Orchestrated. Unlike the previously described attacks that employ primar-
ily one strategy, in orchestrated attacks, colluders follow a multifaced, coordinated
attack. These attacks utilize multiple strategies, where attackers employ diﬀerent
attack vectors, change their behavior over time, and divide up identities to target.
While orchestrated attacks fundamentally target a system’s formulation, these at-
tacks also may target the calculation and dissemination dimensions. If the colluding
attackers become a signiﬁcant part of the calculation or dissemination of reputation
within an area of the system, they can potentially alter reputation metric values to
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

16 · Hoﬀman et al.
their beneﬁt.
One example of an orchestrated attack, known as an oscillation attack [Srivatsa
et al. 2005], is where colluders divide themselves into teams and each team plays
a diﬀerent role at diﬀerent times. At one point in time, some teams will exhibit
honest behavior while the other teams exhibit dishonest behavior. The honest
teams serve to build their own reputations as well as decrease the speed of decline
of the reputation of the dishonest teams. The dishonest teams attempt to gain the
beneﬁts of dishonest behavior for as long as possible, until their reputation is too
low to obtain beneﬁt from the system. At this point, the roles of the teams switch,
so that the dishonest teams can rebuild their reputation and the previously honest
teams can begin exhibiting dishonest behavior. Even more complex scenarios are
possible where there are more than two roles. For example, one team of nodes may
self-promote, another may slander benign nodes, and the ﬁnal team misbehaves
in the context of the peer-to-peer system, such as dropping maintenance messages
used to maintain the system structure and connectivity.
Orchestrated attacks are most eﬀective when there are several colluders for each
role. Larger numbers allow each colluder to be linked less tightly to other collud-
ers, which makes detection much more diﬃcult. Colluders performing orchestrated
attacks balance between maximizing selﬁsh or malicious behavior and avoiding de-
tection. Robust formulations increase the number of colluders that must participate
in order to achieve the desired eﬀect.
Identifying orchestrated attacks is diﬃcult since instead of trying to identify
cliques in a graph representing identities and their relationships, systems need to
identify partially connected clusters where each colluder may not appear to be
connected to every other colluder due to the diﬀering behaviors of the diﬀerent
roles in the orchestrated strategy. Within a window of time, it is possible that
two colluders have no direct interaction observable by the system and thus appear
completely separated, while they are actually colluding indirectly. For example, the
two colluders may produce negative feedback against identities that gave negative
feedback against another, diﬀerent colluder.
4.2.5 Denial of Service. Finally, attackers may seek to subvert the mechanisms
underlying the reputation system itself, causing a denial of service. Such attacks
are conducted by malicious nonrational attackers, making them diﬃcult to defend
against. Systems using centralized approaches and lacking any type of redundancy
are typically vulnerable to denial of service attacks. Attackers can attempt to
cause the central entity to become overloaded (e.g. by overloading its network or
computational resources). These attacks target the calculation and dissemination
dimensions of a system and are performed by groups of colluding attackers.
Preventing a reputation system from operating properly with a denial of service
attack may be as attractive to attackers as corrupting the reputation values, espe-
cially if the application employing the reputation system is automated and needs
to make decisions in a timely fashion. For example, consider a peer-to-peer data
dissemination application where data is routed along the most trustworthy paths.
If the reputation system is inoperable, the system relying on reputation may need to
continue to route data even if reputation information is unavailable, allowing mali-
cious identities to participate for periods of time without their negative reputations
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 17
being known (or without being punished for their negative behavior).
Distributed calculation and dissemination algorithms are often less vulnerable to
attacks if enough redundancy is employed such that misbehavior or loss of a few
participants will not aﬀect the operation of the system as a whole. However, some
distributed storage components such as DHTs may have their own vulnerabilities
[Dahan and Sato 2007] and they can be in turn exploited by an attacker to create
denial of service against the reputation system.
5. DEFENSE STRATEGIES
In this section, we survey the defense mechanisms employed by existing reputation
systems. Although none of the existing systems provide defenses against all the
attacks presented in Section 4, many of them use techniques to address attacks
conducted by selﬁsh rational attackers and a limited number of attacks conducted
by coalitions of malicious attackers. These techniques can be grouped around sev-
eral major design characteristics that facilitate the attacks. We discuss mechanisms
to defend against attackers acquiring multiple identities in Section 5.1. We discuss
techniques to ensure that direct observations reﬂect reality in Section 5.2 and tech-
niques to defend against generation and propagation of false rumors in Section 5.3.
The major reason behind whitewashing attacks is the fact that systems do not dis-
tinguish newcomers from participants that have demonstrated good behavior over
time. We discuss techniques to address this issue in Section 5.4. Finally, we review
techniques used by reputation systems to address more general denial of service
attacks in Section 5.5.
5.1 Preventing Multiple Identities (Sybil Attacks)
The problem of obtaining multiple identities received signiﬁcant attention in recent
years as it impacts not only reputation systems but peer-to-peer systems in general.
In online environments where new identities may be created with minimal cost,
malicious entities may acquire multiple identities for the sole purpose of creating
phantom feedback in the system [Friedman et al. 2007]. Proposed solutions to deal
with Sybil attacks fall into centralized and decentralized approaches.
In a centralized approach, a central authority issues and veriﬁes credentials
unique to each entity. To increase the cost of obtaining multiple identities, the
central authority may require monetary or computational payment for each iden-
tity. Although this may limit the number of identities an attacker can obtain, there
are scenarios in which it may not be possible or practical to have a centralized
authority. Additionally, the central authority represents a single point of failure for
the system and can itself be subjected to attacks.
Decentralized approaches do not rely on a central entity to issue certiﬁcates for
identities. Some solutions proposed include binding a “unique” identiﬁer such as
IP addresses to public keys [Douceur 2002] or using network coordinates to detect
nodes with multiple identities [Bazzi and Konjevod 2005]. However, IP addresses
can be spoofed and network coordinates can be manipulated by attackers [Zage and
Nita-Rotaru 2007]. Other solutions, such as those proposed in BBK [Beth et al.
1994], PGP [Zimmermann 1995], and Advogato [Levien 2003] take advantage of
social knowledge to propagate reputation originating from trusted sources along the
edges of a directed graph, creating a “web of trust”. This type of solution limits the
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

18 · Hoﬀman et al.
eﬀect of malicious nodes by limiting the number of unknown, potentially malicious
nodes honest nodes will extend trust to, thus limiting the eﬀect of the attackers
at the expense of requiring social interaction. More recently, social networks were
proposed to detect attackers posing under multiple identities. The approach in [Yu
et al. 2006] creates a graph in which nodes represent identities and edges represent
trust-relations. The protocol ensures that the number of edges connecting the
honest regions and the attacker regions is very small. Thus, the impact of attackers
with multiple identities is decreased and the attackers may eventually be isolated.
In followup work [Yu et al. 2008], the authors reﬁne their previous graph-based
solutions to signiﬁcantly lower the bound on the number of malicious nodes in the
system.
In parallel with the work on deployed systems, Cheng and Friedman [Cheng and
Friedman 2005; 2006] and Friedman et al. [Friedman et al. 2007] have demonstrated
several conditions using graph theory that must be satisﬁed when calculating rep-
utation if a reputation system is to be resilient to Sybil attacks. Most impor-
tantly, any non-trivial function used to calculate reputation must be asymmetric
to be Sybil-proof, implying reputation must be calculated with respect to identities
(nodes) and interactions (edges) in the graph and not just the interactions between
nodes. Also, work by Altman and Tennenholtz [Altman and Tennenholtz 2005b;
2005a; 2006] has provided a theoretical basis to analytically compare reputation
functions, such as the function used by the PageRank [Page et al. 1998] algorithm,
including their diﬀerent properties such as the resilience to Sybil identities.
5.2 Mitigating Generation of False Rumors
First hand or direct feedback is created as a result of direct interaction. To pre-
vent the generation of false rumors by fabrication or modiﬁcation, several systems
propose to integrate accountability by means of digital signatures and irrefutable
proofs. Irrefutable proofs, often implemented using cryptographic mechanisms, is
a defense strategy intended to mitigate the fabrication of feedback by requiring all
feedback to be associated with proof of a valid transaction (the interaction of two
identities) within the system. For example, TrustGuard [Srivatsa et al. 2005] uses
a digitally signed identiﬁer from the other party as a proof of a transaction and
describes a protocol to ensure that these transaction proofs are exchanged in an
eﬃcient, atomic manner. The approach provides defense against selﬁsh attackers,
but it is ineﬃcient against coalitions of malicious attackers. Additional mechanisms
are needed to detect that colluding adversaries rate each other highly to build good
reputation in the system.
For small coalitions, false data can be ﬁltered out by using a dishonest feedback
ﬁlter, using similarity measure to rate the credibility of reported feedback. If the
feedback data is similar to ﬁrst-hand experience and other received feedback, it
will be used in the reputation calculation. This approach is used by TrustGuard
[Srivatsa et al. 2005].
5.3 Mitigating Spreading of False Rumors
Reputation formulation is based on direct and indirect information, as deﬁned in
Section 3.1. Basing reputation calculation only on direct information may limit the
impact of malicious coalitions on reputation values and it was proposed in systems
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 19
like Scrivener [Nandi et al. 2005]. The drawback is that in many systems it cannot
be guaranteed that every pair of participants will interact and that the interaction is
symmetric [Xiong et al. 2005]. Thus, there is a need to share the direct information
and aggregate the locally observed information.
Several mechanisms that were especially designed to cope with the problem of
spreading and aggregating false reputations were proposed. One approach is to
rely on pre-trusted identities to reduce the eﬀectiveness of fabricated or altered
information. Some systems, such as EigenTrust, depend on pre-trusted identities
to ensure that the probabilistic trust algorithm will converge. Pre-trusted identities
do pose additional risk, because if they are compromised, signiﬁcant damage can be
inﬂicted before the compromised node is identiﬁed. To reduce this risk, systems can
employ integrity checking mechanisms (manual audits), use checks and balances on
the pre-trusted identities (predicates on expected behavior of these identities), and
not allow pre-trusted identities to be trusted absolutely (as in EigenTrust).
Another approach is to employ statistical methods to build robust formulations
that can be reasoned about in a precise fashion. For example, in [Buchegger and Le
Boudec 2004] a Bayesian framework is employed, where the probability of a node
misbehaving is modeled according to a Beta distribution with the parameters of
the distribution being updated as feedback is received. Because the formulation is
based on statistics, a precise meaning can be attached to the output. In this case,
it allows the users to specify an intuitive tolerance for bad behavior, with tolerance
being precisely deﬁned as the maximum percentage of instances that a node has
misbehaved before it is excluded from interaction.
Concepts derived from feedback control-theory were used in P2PRep [Aringhieri
et al. 2006] to adjust the weighting of historical information in the calculation of
the local reputation value. This adaptability gives the system greater resiliency
to oscillatory behavior because the weighting of the historical information is tied
to how well the reputation is predicting the future. TrustGuard [Srivatsa et al.
2005] deﬁnes a heuristic to mitigate dishonest feedback based on the insight that
untrustworthy nodes are more likely to lie and conversely trustworthy nodes are
more likely to be honest.
5.4 Preventing Short-term Abuse of the System
Several systems recognized the problem of attackers abusing the system for short-
term gains by letting their reputation degrade quickly and then re-entering the
system with a new identity.
To diﬀerentiate newcomers from nodes already existing in the system which have
demonstrated good behavior, several systems propose that newcomers must gain
trust and that their reputation increases gradually [Marti and Garcia-Molina 2004;
Ham and Agha 2005]. The approach ensures that newcomers will not start with
a high reputation and forces them to behave correctly for a given amount of time.
Another approach forces new nodes to initially ”pay their dues” and provide more
service than they receive in order to build a positive reputation [Nandi et al. 2005].
One of the challenges many systems face is balancing the ease of admittance of new
nodes versus the resilience to attacks [Morselli et al. 2004].
Other systems such as P2PRep [Aringhieri et al. 2006] and TrustGuard [Srivatsa
et al. 2005] also observed that treating old positive behavior equally to new negative
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

20 · Hoﬀman et al.
behavior may result in attackers abusing the system by using previous altruism
to hide current malicious behavior. They propose to use more aggressive short-
term history and to give more weight to recent negative behavior. The approach
facilitates quick detection when a node becomes a traitor. The drawback is that
in systems that do not oﬀer any protection against generating and spreading false
rumors, this technique allows malicious node to prevent honest nodes from using
the system.
5.5 Mitigating Denial of Service Attacks
Mechanisms to prevent denial of service against the dissemination depend on the
structure used for storage and dissemination of reputation values. For example,
some systems such as TrustMe [Singh and Liu 2003] use randomization techniques
to mitigate the power of malicious collectives. If participants are randomly selected
for calculation and dissemination, then its less likely that a malicious collective can
control a signiﬁcant portion of the redundant elements in a process. The system
may choose to randomly divide responsibility for either entire identities (with some
identities becoming permanently responsible for other identities), or the identities
could be randomly assigned for each instance of the calculation.
When systems like DHTs are used, more security mechanisms [Castro et al. 2002]
and data replication mechanisms [Flocchini et al. 2007] must be employed to ensure
that requests are successfully performed.
Techniques to cope with denial of service attacks on dissemination are similar with
the ones used by many routing protocols and include: use of acknowledgements,
multi-path dissemination, gossip mechanisms and forward error correction codes.
6. EXAMPLES OF REPUTATION SYSTEMS
In this section, we use our framework to analyze in chronological order several
existing reputation systems developed for peer-to-peer systems. We selected peer-
to-peer reputation systems as there is a wide variety due to the development of many
collaborative P2P applications and the diﬀerent systems demonstrate many of the
design choices outlined in our framework. Each of the systems was chosen to provide
both a chronological glimpse of how the systems have changed and matured over
time as well as to provide insights into how diﬀerent components of our framework
aﬀect the systems. For example, the CORE system (Subsection 6.1) uses heuristics
to prevent attacks against the system while EigenTrust (Subsection 6.2) uses a
combination of defense techniques, with each system being able to mitigate a very
diﬀerent set of attacks. We provide insights into the vulnerabilities of each system
and discuss the eﬀectiveness of defense mechanisms they employ. Due to lack of
space, we discuss six representative systems in detail and summarize the other
systems in Figures 3 and 4. In Figure 3, items separated by slash (/) denote
multiple properties in the same ﬁeld while items separated by a comma (,) signify
the system can represent the property in one or more methods. For example, if the
information type of a systems is “P,N/C”, the system utilizes both positive and
negative information and the information is represented in a continuous fashion.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 21
 Source of Information 
 Information Type 
 Temporalal Focus 
 Reputation Metric 
 Structure 
 Approach 
 Efficiency 
 Structure 
 Approach 
 Storage Durability 
 Redundancy 
Beth 94 M, AI P,N / D Y D / C D D O(a n ) D NA φ NA φ NA φ
Zimmermann 95 M, AI P / D,C N D / D,C D D O(n 2 ) D D P N
eBay 96 M P,N / D N D / D C D O(n) C D P N
Yu 00 AD,AI P,N / C N D / C D D O(n) D D T N
P-GRID 01 M N / B N D / D D P O(log n) D D P P
CORE 02 AD,AI P,N / C Y D / C D D O(n) D D T N
XRep 02 M P,N / B N P / D D P NA φ
D P P N
EigenTrust 03 M P,N / B,D N D / C D P O(n) D D T F
Lee 03 M P,N / B,C Y D / C D D O(n) D D T P
TrustMe 03 NA* NA* NA* NA* D D O(n) D D P F
Xiong 03 M N / B Y D / B D D O(n) D D T N
Buchegger 04 M, AI P / C Y D / B, C D D O(1) D D T P
Feldman 04 M P,N / D,C Y D / C D P O(log n) D D P N
Guha 04 M P,N / C Y D / B, C C P O(n 2 ) C D T N
Marti 04 M P / C Y D / C D D O(n) D D T N
ARA 05 AD P / C Y D / C D D O(n) D NA φ
T P
Scrivener 05 AD P,N / D N D / D D D O(1) D D P P
Song 05 M, AI P / C Y P / C D P O(n) D NA φ NA φ NA φ
TrustGuard 05 NA* P,N / C Y D / C NA* NA* O(log n) NA φ NA φ NA φ NA φ
Xiong 05 M P / C Y D / C D D O(n 2 ) D D T N
Credence 06 M P,N / D Y D / C D D NA φ
D P P P
PowerTrust 06 M P,N / D N D / C D P O(n) D D T F
P2PRep 06 M, AD P / C Y P / C D P O(n) D D T P
Li 07 M, AD P,N / C Y P / C D P O(n) D D T N
2) * - The property solely depends on the property of the underlying reputation system. 
Notes: 
1) φ - The property solely depends on the property of the underlying peer-to-peer network. 
Formulation Calculation Dissemination 
M Manual P Positive Y Strong Emphasis D Deterministic 
AI Automatic Indirect N Negative N Not a Strong Emphasis P Probabilistic 
AD Automatic Direct B Binary B Binary 
D Discrete D Discrete 
C Continuous C Continuous 
Formulation 
Source of Information Information Type Temporal Focus Reputation Metric 
C Centralized D Deterministic 
D Distributed P Probabilistic 
n # of Nodes 
t # of Historical Values 
Big-O to calculate the reputation 
metric value for a single identity 
Calculation 
Structure Approach Efficiency 
C Centralized D Deterministic T Transient F Full 
D Distributed P Probabilistic P Permanent P Partial 
N None 
Dissemination 
Structure Approach Storage Strategy Redundancy 
Fig. 3. Characterization of existing reputation systems
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

22 · Hoﬀman et al.
 Self Promoting 
 Self-promoting: Moles 
 Whitewashing 
 Whitewashing: Traitors 
 Slandering 
 Orchestrated 
 Orchestrated: Oscillating 
 Pre-trusted Identities 
 Statistics 
 Heuristics 
 Redundancy 
 Randomization 
 Cryptography 
 Irrefutable Proofs 
Beth 94 /semicircledwn /circle7 /semicircledwn /circle7 /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /semicircledwn
Zimmermann 95 /circle7 /semicircledwn/semicircledwn/semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /semicircledwn
eBay 96 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /semicircledwn /circle7/semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /semicircledwn
Yu 00 /circle7 /circle7/semicircledwn/semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7/semicircledwn /circle7
P-GRID 01 /circle7 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /circle7 /circle7
XRep 02 /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /circle7
CORE 02 /circle7 /circle7 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7
EigenTrust 03 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn/semicircledwn /circle7/semicircledwn/semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /circle7 /circle7
TrustMe 03 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- /circle7 /circle7 /circle7 /semicircledwn
Xiong 03 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7
Lee 03 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /circle7 /circle7 /circle7
Buchegger 04 /semicircledwn/semicircledwn/semicircledwn/semicircledwn/semicircledwn/semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /circle7 /circle7
Guha 04 /semicircledwn /circle7 /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /circle7 /circle7 /circle7
Feldman 04 /semicircledwn/semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7
Marti 04 /semicircledwn/semicircledwn/semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /circle7
Scrivener 05 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /circle7 /circle7
TrustGuard 05 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn/semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /circle7 /circle7
Defenses Strategies Weakness to Attacks 
Key 
 None 
/semicircledwn Minimal 
/semicircledwn Partial 
/circle7 Full  
TrustGuard 05 /semicircledwn/semicircledwn/semicircledwn/semicircledwn /circle7/circle7 /circle7/circle7
ARA 05 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn/circle7 /circle7 /circle7 /circle7 /circle7
Song 05 /semicircledwn/semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7/semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn/circle7 /circle7
Xiong 05 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn/semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7
PowerTrust 06 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn/semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /circle7
Credence 06 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /circle7 /circle7
P2PRep 06 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7 /circle7
Li 07 /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /semicircledwn /circle7 /circle7
Fig. 4. The weaknesses of existing systems to known attack strategies and the
defense mechanisms that these systems employ
6.1 CORE
The CORE [Michiardi and Molva 2002] system was motivated by the need to pre-
vent malicious and selﬁsh behavior of nodes in mobile ad hoc networks (MANETs).
Formulation. The ﬁnal reputation metric combines directly observable behavior
with shared, indirect observations for each known system operation (such as packet
forwarding or routing). For each direct interaction between system nodes, each
operation is rated over the range from [ −1, 1], with higher ratings given to success-
fully performed operations. The interactions are recorded and over time they are
combined using a weighted average, giving higher preference to older data. The
reason more relevance is given to past observations is that a sporadic misbehavior
in recent observations should have a minimal inﬂuence on the evaluation of the ﬁnal
reputation value. The weights are normalized such that the average is also deﬁned
over the range [ −1, 1]. Indirect observations are collected from reply messages sent
by distant peers in response to some actual communication related to the purpose
of the underlying system. Direct and indirect observations relating to each sys-
tem operation are linearly combined, and then these sub-totals for each operation
are combined using a weighted average. The weights for each function are chosen
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 23
based on simulation results that indicate which functions are more important to
the proper operation of the network.
Calculation. Calculation proceeds deterministically in a straightforward fashion,
as all information is either generated at the calculating identity (direct observations)
or is contained in a reply that the identity has received over the course of normal
system operations. The eﬃciency of calculating the direct reputation sub-totals
requires a weighted average of all previously known historical values, giving an
eﬃciency of O(t), where t is the number of values retained. The total reputation is
obtained by also including indirect observations, giving a ﬁnal eﬃciency of O(c∗t) =
O(t), where c is a constant.
Dissemination. Indirect observations are not actively disseminated between iden-
tities in order to conserve power and decrease the number of messages sent by nodes
in the network. Rather, indirect observations are embedded within replies already
deﬁned within the system protocol. For example, each node on a routing path may
append indirect observations about the positive behavior of its neighbor nodes.
Defense Mechanisms. Of the defense mechanisms outlined in this paper, CORE
uses heuristics motivated by simulation results to prevent attacks against the repu-
tation metric. Since the paper is primarily concerned with motivating selﬁsh nodes
to participate in the wireless protocols, the defense techniques only partially address
malicious behavior. In the CORE system, there are no techniques to preserve the
integrity of the data propagated through the network. While indirect observations
are limited to positive observations to prevent whitewashing and slandering attacks,
this does not prevent self-promoting attacks. The ability of a node to self-promote
in turn degrades the service received by benign nodes since they will have a lower
reputation than the malicious nodes and be viewed as less cooperative.
6.2 EigenTrust
The EigenTrust [Kamvar et al. 2003] reputation system was motivated by the need
to ﬁlter out inauthentic content in peer-to-peer ﬁle sharing networks. EigenTrust
calculates a global reputation value for each peer in the system based on the local
opinions of all of the other peers. The local opinions of nodes are aggregated into
a matrix format and the global reputation values are obtained by calculating the
left principle eigenvector of that matrix.
Formulation. The input to the EigenTrust formulation consists of the information
derived from the direct experience a peer has with other peers in the network and
indirect information about the perception of neighboring peers about each other. To
acquire the direct information, users provide manual feedback about each peer-to-
peer transaction. A user ranks each transaction using the binary scale of positive or
negative and the summation of these values is used as input into the formulation.
The indirect information is automatically exchanged between peers and is what
gives the system the ability to develop transitive trust. The system considers both
positive and negative information and is biased towards positive information.
The formulation does not take into consideration the eﬀects of how reputations
change over time. While it is true that the local trust values are a summation of
all votes ever cast for a particular identity, the formulation itself makes no attempt
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

24 · Hoﬀman et al.
to distinguish between votes cast today vs. votes cast a year ago.
The ﬁnal reputation metric is formulated as follows: First, each node i computes
a normalized local trust value cij for node j based on its direct observations. Then,
node i calculates a reputation metric for another identity, k by asking the other
identities, j, for their opinions of identity k and weighting those opinions by i’s
opinion of j: tik = ∑
j cijcjk . By accepting the trust evaluations of neighbors of
neighbors, the system will continue to broaden its view of trust across the network.
The reputation metric is formulated deterministically and produces values on a
continuous spectrum between 0 .0 and 1 .0.
Calculation. Given the formulation of trust in EigenTrust is based on the summa-
tion of observations and indirect data, it naturally lends itself to calculation using
centralized matrix operations. Let C be the matrix [ cij] ( i’s trust in j), deﬁne ⃗ti
to be ∀ktik, and deﬁne ⃗ ci to be ∀kcik. Then the global trust is ⃗ti = ( C T )⃗ ci. To
broaden the view further, an identity may ask for his neighbor’s neighbor’s opin-
ion: (( C T )(C T )), which is then weighted by the identity’s opinion of his neighbors
(⃗ ci). Increasing n in ⃗ti = (C T )
n
⃗ ci continues to broaden the view, and given certain
assumptions, ti will converge to the same vector (the left principle eigenvector of
C) for all ⃗ ci. As all nodes will converge to the same values, these values represent
the global trust vector.
While the formulation lends itself naturally to a centralized calculation based
upon matrix operations, this is not desirable in the peer-to-peer ﬁle sharing envi-
ronment. Instead, each peer calculates the global trust values by using a randomized
algorithm which guarantees that each participant will converge to the same value
within some error bounds. For the original distributed algorithm, the cost to cal-
culate the global trust value for one identity is O(n) in the worst case since (a) the
number of iterations needed to converge can be viewed as constant and (b) it will
need to potentially communicate with all other identities. Through optimization
this bound can be reduced to O(log n) without compromising accuracy [Kamvar
et al. 2003].
Dissemination. EigenTrust uses a deterministic distributed dissemination frame-
work relying on DHTs for reputation value storage and lookup. A host, the score
manager, is responsible for calculating, storing, and communicating reputation val-
ues for all identities whose hashed identity falls within the score manager’s owner-
ship range in the DHT. The use of multiple hash functions allows multiple score
managers to be assigned to each host. The use of multiple score managers and
replication within the DHT provides redundancy at all stages of the storage and
dissemination process. The eﬃciency of dissemination corresponds to the eﬃciency
of the underlying DHT in performing lookups, which is typically O(log n).
Defense Mechanisms. The EigenTrust formulation has foundations in statistics,
as the global trust vector can be formulated as the stationary distribution of a
Markov chain. The formulation is designed so nodes give greater weight to infor-
mation obtained from their neighbors or nodes they have interacted with in the
past to mitigate malicious manipulations. Pre-trusted identities are used to bias
reputation values towards known good nodes and ensure that the randomized cal-
culation will converge quickly. Redundancy is employed during the calculation and
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 25
dissemination stages to prevent benign data loss and malicious data tampering.
Each of the score managers for an identity is randomly selected, making it less
likely that a single malicious collective will be responsible for the reputation value
for any one identity.
6.3 TrustGuard
While electronic reputation systems have been proposed as an eﬃcient and eﬀective
way to minimize the impact of selﬁsh and malicious nodes on peer-to-peer systems,
the reputation systems themselves are often ill-protected, containing ad-hoc pro-
tection mechanisms against a small set of adversarial strategies. The TrustGuard
framework [Srivatsa et al. 2005] has been proposed as a comprehensive method to
safeguard reputation systems. The system uses a strategic oscillation guard based
on a Proportional-Integral-Derivative (PID) controller to combat malicious oscil-
latory behavior. Fake feedbacks are prevented with the help of a fake transaction
detection component which binds feedback to unforgeable transaction proofs. Fi-
nally, dishonest feedbacks are ﬁltered out by using a similarity measure to rate the
credibility of reported feedback. The framework focuses on designing a robust for-
mulation while maintaining ﬂexibility in the system implementation, allowing the
mitigation techniques to be integrated into a variety of reputation systems.
Formulation. Once the node has collected data and the data has passed through
the fake transaction detection component and the dishonest feedback ﬁlter, it is
fed into the strategic oscillation guard in order to create a ﬁnal trust value. The
strategic oscillation guard takes as input the raw reputation values computed from
some other reputation system and formulates the output trust value as the sum of
three weighted components:
—The ﬁrst component represents a node’s current performance and is the raw trust
value as computed by the underlying reputation system.
—The second component is the past history of a node’s actions formulated as the
integral of the function representing all prior reputation values divided by the
current point in time.
—The third and ﬁnal component reﬂects sudden changes in a node’s performance
and is formulated by the derivative of the above mentioned function.
The ﬂexibility and resiliency to attack are achieved in how the weights for each
component are chosen. For example, if the second component is weighted heavily,
the past performance of the node is more important than the current performance.
Calculation. In order to eﬃciently store and calculate the historical components
speciﬁed by the strategic oscillation guard’s formulation, the concept of fading mem-
ories is introduced. Instead of storing all previous reputation values, TrustGuard
represents these values using only log 2 t values, where t represents system time
intervals, with exponentially more detail is stored about the recent events. This
technique allows the strategic oscillation guard calculations to be deterministically
performed with an eﬃciency of O(log t) instead of O(t).
Dissemination. The dissemination of information is dependent on the underlying
overlay network and thus the dissemination techniques are outside the scope of the
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

26 · Hoﬀman et al.
TrustGuard.
Defense Mechanisms. In TrustGuard, it is assumed that the base overlay network
is resilient to attack and provides a means for authenticating messages. Under these
assumptions, TrustGuard uses control theory as the basis for its strategic oscillation
guard. Using diﬀerent empirically determined weighting for the guard, the system
can mitigate many of the malicious attacks.
The fake transaction detection mechanism uses irrefutable proofs to prevent input
resulting from fake transactions from being admitted into the reputation system.
Assuming each entity in the network has an associated public/private key pair,
a transaction proof is exchange for each transaction, allowing claims of malicious
activity to be checked by a trusted third party.
The goal of the dishonest feedback ﬁlter is to use statistical measures to make
the raw reputation values computed by the underlying reputation system resilient
against identities that report false feedback. The ﬁrst approach mentioned is to
weight the source values used to compute the reputation value for a node by the
current reputation values of the identities producing the source information. How-
ever, this has the drawback of being vulnerable to nodes which follow the protocol
and have good reputations but lie about others reputation. Instead, the authors
propose to weight reputation values by using a personality similarity measure, which
is deﬁned to be the normalized root mean square of the diﬀerences between the feed-
back each node gave to identities in the common identity set. The common identity
set is deﬁned to be those identities that both identities have interacted with in the
past. This has the eﬀect that the weight given to others’ feedback about oneself
will depend on the similarity of how both rated other identities in the past, with
the idea that honest identities will approximately give the same feedback for other
identities. The Credence [Walsh and Sirer 2006] system is also built around this
approach.
6.4 Scrivener
Scrivener [Nandi et al. 2005] is based on principles from neoclassical economics
which state that naturally “rational” clients must be given an incentive in order
to cooperate and not cheat the system. The goal of Scrivener is to enforce fair-
ness among all participants in a peer-to-peer ﬁle sharing system. The reputation
of each host is not a globally calculated value, but rather is speciﬁc to individual
pairwise sharing relationships within the overlay network. The formulation and cal-
culation dimensions describe how pairwise relationships determine credit balances.
The dissemination dimension describes how a transitive relationship can be formed
between non-neighboring identities.
6.4.1 Formulation. Scrivener maintains a history of interactions between neigh-
boring peers, tracking when they provide resources (credits) and when they consume
resources (debits). The system collects directly observable information automati-
cally for each interaction of immediate neighbors in the overlay network. Credit
balance is deﬁned to be the diﬀerence in the amount of data consumed less the
resources provided. In order to establish long-term cooperation, nodes must keep
this credit balance in stable storage. Using the credit balance in conjunction with
a conﬁdence metric that represents how often a request is successfully fulﬁlled by
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 27
a given node, a credit limit for each node is established.
In order to allow nodes to join the network, each new neighbor chosen by a node
is initially given a small, positive credit limit. To prevent nodes from constantly
selecting new neighbors and abusing the initial credit limit, any node requesting
(not chosen) to be a neighbor of a node is assigned an initial credit limit of zero.
When a host A has used up its credit limit with a host B, B will not further fulﬁll
requests from A. Host B can still request data from A so that A can repay the
debt. If A does not fulﬁll B’s requests properly then B’s conﬁdence in A decreases.
If the conﬁdence reaches zero, B will ignore A and choose a diﬀerent identity in
the overlay network to replace A as its neighbor. Since the credit is assumed to be
maintained in stable storage, B remembers the debt that was associated with A
indeﬁnitely.
Although the credit balance is a summary of all past behavior of a neighboring
node, no record is kept of how this has changed over time. The formulation itself
is deterministic and produces discrete values.
Calculation. The calculation of the credits and conﬁdence metric are fully dis-
tributed to the point that there is no single, global value produced for each identity
in the system. Each calculation is processed entirely local to the pair of identities
involved and can be performed in constant running time with respect to the number
of identities in the system.
Dissemination. As credit balances are only established between neighboring iden-
tities in the overlay network, a transitive trading system is needed to facilitate data
transfers between any two arbitrary identities within the overlay network.
If host A wants to receive content from some host, Z, it ﬁrst must ﬁnd a credit
path, where each identity in the credit path has positive credit with which to
“pay” the successor identity. This path is normally determined using the overlay
network routing protocol, such as through the use of a DHT. Once the path has been
determined, A then simultaneously sends a payment to and decreases its conﬁdence
in the ﬁrst identity in the credit path (named B herein). The drop in conﬁdence
is in anticipation of B’s possible failure to route the request to the next identity
in the credit path and to motivate B to participate in the request. If B does not
participate, A’s conﬁdence in B will eventually reach zero and A will refuse to
communicate with B. Then, B uses the credit received from A to continue the
process until the destination is reached. Once Z receives the credit, Z will process
the request. Once the request is complete, Z sends an indicator message backwards
along the credit path, which causes nodes to adjust conﬁdence levels back to their
original values and then increase them to reﬂect the success of the content transfer.
Redundancy is integrated into the system via the notion of content caching. The
eﬃciency of this process is determined by the eﬃciency of (a) ﬁnding the credit
path (b) the length of the resulting credit path.
Defense Mechanisms. Similar to CORE, Scrivener is primarily concerned with
motivating rational, selﬁsh nodes to participate in the system and thus the defense
techniques only partially address malicious behavior. The primary defense mecha-
nism within Scrivener is the use of statistical formulas to encourage participants to
participate correctly in the protocol. If nodes act selﬁshly or maliciously, they will
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

28 · Hoﬀman et al.
eventually acquire a negative credit balance and with the assumed long-lived iden-
tifers, eventually be excluded from the network. Redundancy is also utilized and
allows identities to check the validity of certain claims by an identity. For example,
if a sender, Z, claims that some content does not exist or that it has completed the
transaction, nodes along the credit path (that later propagate the ﬁnished message)
can choose to ask other identities providing the same content to verify the truth of
the claim.
6.5 P2PRep
The P2PRep [Aringhieri et al. 2006] reputation system is designed to mitigate the
eﬀects of selﬁsh and malicious peers in an anonymous, completely decentralized
system. The system uses fuzzy techniques to collect and aggregate user opinions
into distinct values of trust and reputation. In P2PRep, trust is a deﬁned as a
function based on an entity’s reputation and several environmental factors such
as the time since the reputation has last been modiﬁed. Reputation is viewed at
two levels in the system: (1) locally representing the direct interactions between
peers and (2) network-wide representing the aggregation of multiple opinions about
a peer. When a peer wants to use a network resource (download a ﬁle), it (1)
queries for resource locations and receives back a list of possible resource providers,
(2) polls the network about the reputation of the possible resource providers, (3)
evaluates the poll responses, and (4) synthesizes a reputation value from the local
and network responses using fuzzy techniques. Based on this synthesized value, a
peer will decide whether or not to trust the provider and use the resource.
Formulation. In P2PRep, since participants are assumed to be anonymous and
no peer will retain an identity with a negative reputation, only positive values are
used in the formulation. Each direct interaction between system nodes is recorded
and given a Boolean value, with 1 indicating the outcome was satisfactory and 0
otherwise. In order to calculate a local reputation value, the individual Boolean
values are aggregated using an exponentially weighted moving average designed to
take into account the age and importance of the data, resulting in a value over
the range from [0 , 1]. In order to augment the local reputation value, a peer will
collect reputation values from the network. Using an ordered weighted average, the
indirect observations obtained from the network query are combined with the local
observations to produce a ﬁnal reputation value in the unit interval of [0 , 1].
6.5.1 Calculation. The calculation of both the local and network reputations
are fully distributed to the point that there is no single, global value produced for
each identity in the system. For each possible interaction, data is gathered from
the network and processed locally by the node requesting the resource and each
calculation can be performed in linear running time with respect to the number of
identities that reply to a poll request for reputation values.
6.5.2 Dissemination. All information requests are broadcast throughout the
network and all information replies are unicast back to the requester using the un-
derlying peer-to-peer system’s communication framework. Several improvements
can be made to improve the eﬃciency of the dissemination structure including in-
telligent forwarding techniques (e.g. forwarding poll packets only to the necessary
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 29
peers) and vote caching (e.g. retaining votes of popular peers).
6.5.3 Defense Mechanisms. The main defense technique P2PRep utilizes to mit-
igate the eﬀect of malicious nodes is a vote veriﬁcation process. The requester ran-
domly audits some of the votes by sending a vote conﬁrmation message to the IP
address associated with the vote. This ensures the interaction actually happened
and the vote corresponding to that IP address is correct, making vote falsiﬁcation
more diﬃcult for an attacker. Also, the formulation of the network wide reputation
is designed to give more weight to local observations and uses an adaptive weighting
scheme in order to be responsive to network change, making it more diﬃcult for
malicious nodes to gain an advantage by reporting false votes.
Another key design consideration in the P2PRep is maintaining user anonymity.
The system guards the anonymity of users and the integrity of packets through the
use of public key cryptography. All replies are signed using the requester’s public
key, protecting the identity of the responder and the integrity of the data. Only the
requester is able to decrypt the packet and check the validity of the information.
6.6 Credence
Credence [Walsh and Sirer 2006] was motivated by the need for peers to defend
against ﬁle pollution in peer-to-peer ﬁle sharing networks and has been deployed
as an add-on to the LimeWire client for the Gnutella network. The system relies
on the intuitive notion that honest identities will produce similar votes as they rate
the authenticity of a ﬁle, implying that identities with similar voting patterns can
be trusted more than identities with dissimilar voting patterns.
Formulation. The input to the formulation is the users’ manually entered positive
or negative votes indicating the authenticity of a downloaded ﬁle. Speciﬁcally, each
user is asked to indicate for each attribute of the search result whether the attribute
was one of many possible true values, was the only possible true value, or was not a
true value (possibly specifying what the true value actually should be). A historical
record of an identity’s recent votes are stored in a local vote database. Additionally,
each identity will proactively query the peer-to-peer network to gather additional
votes for neighboring nodes.
The ﬁnal reputation metric for a search result is formulated by taking a weighted
average of other identities’ statements (each statement represents +1 if the state-
ment completely supports the search result’s attributes or -1 otherwise). The weight
assigned to each identity depends on the statistical correlation between the vote
history of the identity performing the calculation and the vote history for each of
its peers. Heuristics are applied to the correlation coeﬃcient so that statistically
insigniﬁcant correlations and correlations without suﬃcient history are discarded
and that new identities without a large voting history can still estimate a weight.
6.6.1 Calculation. The calculation of reputation metric values for a given search
query result proceeds as follows: First, an identity will send vote gathering queries
into the network, requesting that neighboring identities respond with their vote for
the ﬁle of interest as well as with the most important votes that the neighboring
identities know about. Using the local vote information and the received votes
weighted with their measured correlation, the weighted average is computed. Cal-
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

30 · Hoﬀman et al.
culation of the correlation weights between peers can be performed incrementally
by updating the weight for a particular peer when additional voting history for that
peer is received. The use of the persistent storage allows for the digital signatures
of the statements of peers to only have to be veriﬁed once (under the assumption
that the underlying persistent store can be trusted), further increasing eﬃciency of
the Credence system.
6.6.2 Dissemination. Credence utilizes several mechanisms to disseminate votes
across the system, broadening the inﬂuence of the votes and allowing voting infor-
mation to remain available even when the original voter is oﬄine. First, vote
information from neighboring identities is stored persistently after each query. The
information received from each neighboring peer also contains information about
other peers in the network. In this way, the vote from one particular identity
can disseminate widely across the network as proactive queries are made regarding
the ﬁle. Additionally, gossip-based techniques are employed in the background so
that voting information for unpopular objects has a broader reach throughout the
system.
In addition to propagating actual voting information regarding speciﬁc ﬁles, the
system uses a ﬂow-based algorithm, similar to the idea behind PageRank [Page
et al. 1998] and EigenTrust [Kamvar et al. 2003], to calculate an estimate of the
correlation between any two indirectly connected identities within the graph. This
allows larger networks of trust to be built such that strong correlation can be
established between identities even if they do not vote on the same ﬁles. Each
client builds a local model of a portion of the overall trust network and using a
gossip-based protocol, a node propagates trust along paths from itself to distant
peers through known pairwise relationships.
6.6.3 Defense Mechanisms. The underlying intuition within Credence that hon-
est users have similar voting patterns limits the impact of any attack pattern. Ma-
licious nodes are forced to vote honestly the majority of time so that they can
develop strong correlation values with other honest users. If the attackers vote
dishonestly, it directly diminishes their correlation coeﬃcients with other honest
users and lessens their impact on the reputation system. Attacks by coalitions of
attackers, while still eﬀective, are impacted in a similar fashion since they require
the entire group to establish credible voting patterns and are inherently more costly
for the attackers.
A key security consideration in the Credence system is the use of mechanisms to
prevent spoofed votes or votes generated by fake identities. The system guards
against such attacks by issuing digital certiﬁcates in an anonymous but semi-
controlled fashion. The authors propose to mitigate Sybil attacks by requiring
expensive computation on the part of the client before the server grants a new
digital certiﬁcate. Every voting statement is digitally signed by the originator and
anyone can cryptographically verify the authenticity of any given voting statement.
Honest nodes in Credence occasionally use the inverse of votes by nodes with
weak correlations based on the fact that these votes were most likely submitted by
malicious users and are opposite of their true, correct values.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 31
7. CONCLUSIONS
This paper is the ﬁrst survey focusing on the design dimensions of reputation sys-
tems and the corresponding attacks and defenses. We have developed an analysis
framework that can be used as common criteria for evaluating and comparing rep-
utation systems. We have deﬁned an attacker model and classiﬁed known and
potential attacks on reputation systems within this model. Defense mechanisms
and their corresponding strengths and weaknesses were discussed. We have demon-
strated the value of the analysis framework and attack and defense characteriza-
tions by surveying several key reputation systems, drawing insights based on the
new framework. This analysis framework is also valuable for future research in that
it provides understanding into the implications of design choices.
Reputation systems play an ever-increasingly important part in online commu-
nities. Understanding reputation systems and how they can compare to each other
is an important step towards formulating better systems in the future. This paper
has sought to provide more rigorous methods to compare existing systems and to
bring understanding of these systems to a broader audience, including those who
build systems that rely on reputation systems.
8. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work is supported by National Science Foundation CyberTrust Award No.
0430271. The views expressed in this research are not endorsed by the National
Science Foundation.
REFERENCES
Aberer, K. and Despotovic, Z. 2001. Managing trust in a peer-2-peer information system. In
CIKM ’01: Proceedings of the tenth international conference on Information and knowledge
management. ACM Press, New York, NY, USA, 310–317.
Adar, E. and Huberman, B. 2000. Free riding on Gnutella. First Monday 5, 10, 2.
Adler, B. and de Alfaro, L. 2007. A content-driven reputation system for the Wikipedia. In
Proceedings of the 16th international conference on World Wide Web (WWW) . ACM Press,
New York, NY, USA, 261–270.
Akerlof, G. 1970. The market for “lemons”: Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism.
The Quarterly Journal of Economics 84, 3, 488–500.
Altman, A. and Tennenholtz, M. 2005a. On the axiomatic foundations of ranking systems. In
Proc. 19th International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence . 917–922.
Altman, A. and Tennenholtz, M. 2005b. Ranking systems: the PageRank axioms. In Proceed-
ings of the 6th ACM conference on Electronic commerce . ACM Press New York, NY, USA,
1–8.
Altman, A. and Tennenholtz, M. 2006. An axiomatic approach to personalized ranking systems.
In Proceedings of the 20th International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence .
Aringhieri, R. , Damiani, E. , Vimercati, S. D. C. D. , Paraboschi, S., and Samarati, P. 2006.
Fuzzy techniques for trust and reputation management in anonymous peer-to-peer systems. J.
Am. Soc. Inf. Sci. Technol. 57, 4 (February), 528–537.
Ba, S. and Pavlou, P. 2002. Evidence of the eﬀect of trust building technology in electronic
markets: Price premiums and buyer behavior. MIS Quarterly 26, 3, 243–268.
Bazzi, R. A. and Konjevod, G. 2005. On the establishment of distinct identities in overlay net-
works. In PODC ’05: Proceedings of the twenty-fourth annual ACM symposium on Principles
of distributed computing . ACM Press, New York, NY, USA, 312–320.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

32 · Hoﬀman et al.
Beth, T. , Borcherding, M. , and Klein, B. 1994. Valuation of trust in open networks. In
Computer Security-Esorics 94: Third European Symposium on Research in Computer Security .
Springer, Brighton, United Kingdom.
Buchegger, S. and Le Boudec, J. Y. 2004. A robust reputation system for P2P and mobile
ad-hoc networks. In Proceedings of the Second Workshop on the Economics of Peer-to-Peer
Systems.
Castro, M. , Druschel, P. , Ganesh, A. , Rowstron, A. , and W allach, D. S. 2002. Secure
routing for structured peer-to-peer overlay networks. SIGOPS Oper. Syst. Rev. 36, SI, 299–
314.
Cheng, A. and Friedman, E. 2005. Sybilproof reputation mechanisms. In Applications, Tech-
nologies, Architectures, and Protocols for Computer Communication . ACM Press New York,
NY, USA, 128–132.
Cheng, A. and Friedman, E. 2006. Manipulability of PageRank under Sybil strategies. In First
Workshop on the Economics of Networked Systems (NetEcon06) .
Cormen, T. , Leiserson, C. , Rivest, R. , and Stein, C. 2001. Introduction to Algorithms . MIT
Press.
Dahan, S. and Sato, M. 2007. Survey of six myths and oversights about distributed hash tables’
security. In Distributed Computing Systems Workshops. ICDCSW ’07. 27th International
Conference on. IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA.
Damiani, E., De Capitani Di Vimercati, S. , Paraboschi, S., and Samarati, P. 2003. Managing
and sharing servants’ reputations in p2p systems. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data
Engineering 15, 4 (July-Aug.), 840–854.
Damiani, E. , di Vimercati, D. C. , Paraboschi, S. , Samarati, P. , and Violante, F. 2002. A
reputation-based approach for choosing reliable resources in peer-to-peer networks. In CCS
’02: Proceedings of the 9th ACM conference on Computer and communications security . ACM
Press, New York, NY, USA, 207–216.
Dellarocas, C. 2003. The digitization of word-of-mouth: Promise and challenges of online
feedback mechanisms. Management Science 49, 10 (October), 1407–1424.
Dimitriou, T., Karame, G., and Christou, I. 2007. SuperTrust: A secure and eﬃcient framework
for handling trust in super peer networks. In Proceedings of ACM PODC 2007 .
Douceur, J. R. 2002. The Sybil attack. In Proceedings for the 1st International Workshop on
Peer-to-Peer Systems (IPTPS) . Springer Berlin / Heidelberg, 251–260.
Eugster, P. , Handurukande, S. , Guerraoui, R. , Kermarrec, A.-M. , and Kouznetsov, P.
2001. Lightweight probabilistic broadcast. In The International Conference on Dependable
Systems and Networks (DSN 2001) .
Feldman, M., Lai, K., Stoica, I., and Chuang, J. 2004. Robust incentive techniques for peer-to-
peer networks. In Proceedings of the 5th ACM conference on Electronic commerce. Proceedings
of the 5th ACM conference on Electronic commerce 1, 1, 102–111.
Flocchini, P. , Nayak, A., and Xie, M. 2007. Enhancing peer-to-peer systems through redun-
dancy. Selected Areas in Communications, IEEE Journal on 25, 1 (January), 15–24.
Friedman, E., Resnick, P., and Sami, R. 2007. Algorithmic Game Theory. Cambridge University
Press.
Friedman, E. J. and Resnick, P. 2001. The social cost of cheap pseudonyms. Economics and
Management Strategy 10(2) , 173–199.
Guha, R. , Kumar, R. , Raghavan, P., and Tomkins, A. 2004. Propagation of trust and distrust.
In WWW ’04: Proceedings of the 13th international conference on World Wide Web . ACM
Press, New York, NY, USA, 403–412.
Ham, M. and Agha, G. 2005. ARA: a robust audit to prevent free-riding in P2P networks. In
Peer-to-Peer Computing, 2005. P2P 2005. Fifth IEEE International Conference on . 125–132.
Houser, D. and Wooders, J. 2006. Reputation in auctions: Theory, and evidence from eBay.
Journal of Economics and Management Strategy 15, 2 (June), 353–369.
Jøsang, A. , Ismail, R. , and Boyd, C. 2007. A survey of trust and reputation systems for online
service provision. Decision Support Systems 43, 2 (March), 618–644.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

A Survey of Attack and Defense Techniques for Reputation Systems · 33
Kamvar, S. D. , Schlosser, M. T. , and Garcia-Molina, H. 2003. The EigenTrust algorithm for
reputation management in P2P networks. In WWW ’03: Proceedings of the 12th international
conference on World Wide Web . ACM Press, New York, NY, USA, 640–651.
Khopkar, T. , Li, X. , and Resnick, P. 2005. Self-selection, slipping, salvaging, slacking, and
stoning: the impacts of negative feedback at eBay. In EC ’05: Proceedings of the 6th ACM
conference on Electronic commerce . ACM Press, New York, NY, USA, 223–231.
Lai, K. , Feldman, M. , Stoica, I. , and Chuang, J. 2003. Incentives for cooperation in peer-to-
peer networks. In Workshop on Economics of Peer-to-Peer Systems .
Lee, S. , Sherwood, R., and Bhattacharjee, B. 2003. Cooperative peer groups in nice. In IEEE
Infocom.
Levien, R. 2003. Attack Resistant Trust Metrics. Ph.D. thesis, University of California at
Berkeley. Draft available at http://www.levien.com/thesis/compact.pdf.
Li, F. and Wu, J. 2007. Mobility reduces uncertainty in MANETs. In Proceedings of IEEE
INFOCOM.
Lian, Q. , Zhang, Z. , Yang, M. , Zhao, B. , Dai, Y. , and Li, X. 2007. An empirical study of
collusion behavior in the Maze P2P ﬁle-sharing system. In Distributed Computing Systems.
ICDCS ’07. 27th International Conference on . IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA.
Lin, K. , Lu, H. , Yu, T. , and Tai, C. 2005. A reputation and trust management broker frame-
work for web applications. In Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE International Conference on e-
Technology, e-Commerce and e-Service (EEE’05) . IEEE Computer Society Washington, DC,
USA, 262–269.
Marti, S. and Garcia-Molina, H. 2004. Limited reputation sharing in P2P systems. In EC
’04: Proceedings of the 5th ACM conference on Electronic commerce . ACM Press, New York,
NY, USA, 91–101.
Marti, S. and Garcia-Molina, H. 2006. Taxonomy of trust: Categorizing P2P reputation
systems. Computer Networks: The International Journal of Computer and Telecommunications
Networking 50 , 472 – 484.
Matei, R. , Iamnitchi, A. , and Foster, P. 2002. Mapping the Gnutella network. Internet
Computing, IEEE 6, 1 (Jan.-Feb.), 50–57.
Michiardi, P. and Molva, R. 2002. CORE: a collaborative reputation mechanism to enforce
node cooperation in mobile ad hoc networks. In Proceedings of the IFIP TC6/TC11 Sixth Joint
Working Conference on Communications and Multimedia Security . Kluwer, B.V., Deventer,
The Netherlands, The Netherlands, 107–121.
Morselli, R., Katz, J., and Bhattacharjee, B. 2004. A game-theoretic framework for analyzing
trust-inference protocols. In Second Workshop on the Economics of Peer-to-Peer Systems .
Nandi, A. , Ngan, T.-W. , Singh, A. , Druschel, P. , and W allach, D. S. 2005. Scrivener:
Providing incentives in cooperative content distribution systems. In ACM/IFIP/USENIX 6th
International Middleware Conference. Middleware 2005 1, 1 (November), 270–291.
Page, L. , Brin, S. , Motwani, R. , and Winograd, T. 1998. The PageRank citation ranking:
Bringing order to the web. Tech. rep., Stanford Digital Library Technologies Project.
Piatek, M., Isdal, T. , Anderson, T. , Krishnamurthy, A., and Venkataramani, A. 2007. Do
incentives build robustness in BitTorrent? In Proceedings of the Fourth USENIX Symposium
on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI) .
Ratnasamy, S., Francis, P., Handley, M., Karp, R., and Shenker, S. 2000. A scalable content
addressable network. Tech. Rep. TR-00-010, UC Berkeley.
Reed, I. S. and Solomon, G. 1960. Polynomial codes over certain ﬁnite ﬁelds. Journal of the
Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics 8, 2 (June), 300–304.
Resnick, P. , Kuwabara, K. , Zeckhauser, R. , and Friedman, E. 2000. Reputation systems.
Communications of the ACM 43, 12, 45–48.
Resnick, P. , Zeckhauser, R. , Swanson, J., and Lockwood, K. 2006. The value of reputation
on eBay: A controlled experiment. Experimental Economics 9, 2 (June), 79–101.
Rowstron, A. and Druschel, P. 2001. Pastry: scalable, distributed object location and rout-
ing for large-scale peer-to-peer systems. IFIP/ACM International Conference on Distributed
Systems Platforms (Middleware) 11 , 329–350.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.

34 · Hoﬀman et al.
Singh, A. and Liu, L. 2003. TrustMe: anonymous management of trust relationships in decen-
tralized P2P systems. In Third International Conference on Peer-to-Peer Computing, 2003.
(P2P 2003). 142–149.
Song, S. , Hwang, K. , Zhou, R. , and Kwok, Y.-K. 2005. Trusted P2P transactions with fuzzy
reputation aggregation. Internet Computing, IEEE 9, 6 (Nov.-Dec.), 24–34.
Srivatsa, M., Xiong, L. , and Liu, L. 2005. TrustGuard: countering vulnerabilities in reputa-
tion management for decentralized overlay networks. In WWW ’05: Proceedings of the 14th
international conference on World Wide Web . ACM Press, New York, NY, USA, 422–431.
Stoica, I. , Morris, R. , Karger, D. , Kaashoek, F. , and Balakrishnan, H. 2001. Chord: A
scalable peer-to-peer lookup service for internet applications. In Proceedings of the 2001 ACM
SIGCOMM Conference. 149–160.
Survey. 2005. E-crime watch survey. http://www.cert.org/archive/pdf/ecrimesurvey05.pdf.
Suryanarayana, G. and Taylor, R. N. 2004. A survey of trust management and resource
discovery technologies in peer-to-peer applications. Tech. Rep. UCI-ISR-04-6, UC Irvine. July.
W alsh, K. and Sirer, E. G. 2006. Experience with an object reputation system for peer-to-peer
ﬁlesharing. In Symposium on Networked System Design and Implementation (NSDI) .
Xiong, L. and Liu, L. 2002. Building trust in decentralized peer-to-peer electronic communities.
In International Conference on Electronic Commerce Research (ICECR-5) .
Xiong, L. and Liu, L. 2003. A reputation-based trust model for peer-to-peer e-commerce com-
munities. In IEEE Conference on Electronic Commerce .
Xiong, L. , Liu, L. , and Ahamad, M. 2005. Countering sparsity and vulnerabilities in reputation
systems. Tech. Rep. TR-2005-017-A, Emory University.
Yu, B. and Singh, M. P. 2000. A social mechanism of reputation management in electronic com-
munities. In Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Cooperative Information Agents
IV, The Future of Information Agents in Cyberspace. Cooperative Information Agents 1, 1,
154–165.
Yu, H. , Gibbons, P. , Kaminsky, M. , and Xiao, F. 2008. A near-optimal social network defense
against sybil attacks. In Proceedings of the 2008 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy .
Yu, H. , Kaminsky, M. , Gibbons, P. B. , and Flaxman, A. 2006. SybilGuard: defending against
Sybil attacks via social networks. In SIGCOMM ’06: Proceedings of the 2006 conference on
Applications, technologies, architectures, and protocols for computer communications . ACM
Press, New York, NY, USA, 267–278.
Zage, D. J. and Nita-Rotaru, C. 2007. On the accuracy of decentralized network coordinates
in adversarial networks. In CCS ’07: Proceedings of the 14th ACM Conference on Computer
and Communications Security . ACM Press, New York, NY, USA.
Zhao, B. Y. , Kubiatowicz, J. D. , and Joseph, A. D. 2001. Tapestry: An infrastructure for
fault-tolerant wide-area location and routing. Tech. Rep. UCB/CSD-01-1141, UC Berkeley.
April.
Zhou, R. and Hwang, K. 2006. Trust overlay networks for global reputation aggregation in P2P
grid computing. In Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium, 2006. IPDPS 2006. 20th
International. 10pp.
Zhou, R. and Hwang, K. 2007. PowerTrust: A robust and scalable reputation system for trusted
peer-to-peer computing. Parallel and Distributed Systems, IEEE Transactions on 18, 4, 460–
473.
Zimmermann, P. 1995. The oﬃcial PGP user’s guide . MIT Press Cambridge, MA, USA.
Received September 2007; revised March 2008; accepted Month Year
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. V, No. N, Month 2007.