This paper is included in the Proceedings of the 
30th USENIX Security Symposium.
August 11–13, 2021
978-1-9391 33-24-3
Open access to the Proceedings of the 
30th USENIX Security Symposium 
is sponsored by USENIX.
Rollercoaster: An Efficient Group-Multicast 
Scheme for Mix Networks
Daniel Hugenroth, Martin Kleppmann, and Alastair R. Beresford, 
University of Cambridge
https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity21/presentation/hugenroth

Rollercoaster: An Efﬁcient Group-Multicast
Scheme for Mix Networks
Daniel Hugenroth
University of Cambridge
Martin Kleppmann
University of Cambridge
Alastair R. Beresford
University of Cambridge
Abstract
Mix network designs such as Loopix provide strong metadata
anonymity guarantees that are crucial across many applica-
tions. However, because they limit the rate at which messages
can be sent by each user, they incur high delays when send-
ing many messages to multiple recipients – for instance, in
decentralised collaborative apps.
In this paper we present an efﬁcient multicast scheme
named Rollercoaster that reduces the time for delivering a
message to all members of a group of size m fromO(m) to
O(log m). Rollercoaster can be deployed without modiﬁca-
tions to the underlying mix network, allowing it to beneﬁt
from the anonymity set provided by existing users. We fur-
ther develop an extension that achieves the same asymptotic
guarantees in the presence of unreliable group members.
While the scheme is applicable to many mix network de-
signs, we evaluate it for the Loopix network, which is the most
advanced and practical design to date. For this evaluation we
developed a network simulator that allows fast, reproducible,
and inspectable runs while eliminating external inﬂuences.
1 Introduction
Information security often focuses on the conﬁdentiality and
integrity of electronic messages. However, metadata privacy
is frequently also important since merely knowing the parties
involved in a communication can reveal sensitive information
and stigmatise groups and individuals. For example, revealing
the names of people contacting a sexual health clinic may
discourage individuals from seeking treatment; and potential
whistle-blowers may be dissuaded from disclosing illegal or
unethical behaviour to a journalist. Strong metadata privacy is
critical across many domains, not just healthcare and journal-
ism, but also in diplomatic services and military operations.
Protecting metadata privacy is not merely a theoretical
requirement: we ﬁnd ourselves in an era of mass-surveillance
by well-funded state actors as well as pervasive data collection
by private companies and service providers. In this reality
there are many online applications where protecting metadata
privacy is of practical importance.
The Tor [1] network is perhaps the best known example of a
system that provides metadata privacy. Tor brought so-called
anonymous communication networks to a large audience by
providing low-latency communication and anonymous access
to the Internet. However, while the Tor network provides high
throughput and low latency, it does not provide metadata pri-
vacy in the presence of a global adversary who can observe
all communication [2]. Mix network designs and broadcast
schemes provide metadata privacy in the face of global adver-
saries, however they do so at the cost of signiﬁcantly higher
latency and lower overall throughput. A prominent recent
medium-latency mix network design, which protects metadata
privacy in the presence of a global adversary, is Loopix [3].
Many collaborative apps are in use today, including group
messaging services such as WhatsApp, Signal, and iMessage;
productivity tools such as Google Docs and Ofﬁce365; and
ﬁle sharing applications such as Dropbox and Box. At present,
no mainstream collaborative apps provide metadata privacy.
Hence, in this paper, we present a new architecture that en-
ables strong metadata privacy for such applications.
We consider forms of collaboration in which a ﬁle or con-
versation thread is shared by a group of collaborators, and
any update to it needs to be shared with all group members.
Group messaging and collaboration can share the same un-
derlying infrastructure [4]. In collaborative editing applica-
tions individual update messages are usually small and fre-
quent [5]. Such apps therefore require an efﬁcient, reliable,
and timely method of sending messages to all members of a
group. However, the original design of Loopix provides only
one-to-one (unicast) messages, and no built-in mechanism
for group communication (multicast). In this paper we show
that naïvely implementing multicast in an anonymity network
like Loopix results in signiﬁcant overhead in terms of latency
and throughput, typically exceeding the latency required to
provide good user experience. We therefore extend Loopix to
support low-latency group communication while preserving
metadata privacy.
USENIX Association 30th USENIX Security Symposium    3433

This paper makes the following contributions:
• An anonymous group communication scheme called
Rollercoaster, which achieves a group multicast latency
ofO(log m) for groups of size m, while ensuring strong
metadata privacy against an active global adversary (§5).
In our evaluation Rollercoaster achieves a 99th percentile
(p99) latency of 12.3 seconds for groups larger than 100
users, whereas the default implementation of Loopix
incurs a latency of 75.6 s (§6.2). Rollercoaster works by
involving many group members, not just the sender of a
message, in the task of disseminating a message.
• An extension to the Rollercoaster scheme that adds fault-
tolerance to gracefully handle the fact that some group
members may be ofﬂine, while preserving scalability
(§5.2). Even in the presence of faulty nodes, Roller-
coaster performs better than default Loopix for mean,
p90, and p99 latency. Our solution reduces p99 latency
to 21.9 s compared to 103.3 s for default Loopix (§6.3)
when evaluated against realistic connectivity patterns.
• The design of the MultiSphinx packet format that allows
limited multicast by designated mix nodes while preserv-
ing strong metadata privacy guarantees (§5.4).
• A deterministic, open-source simulator for Loopix and
Rollercoaster that allows efﬁcient, inspectable, and re-
producible performance evaluations. We use it to empir-
ically compare the latency properties of both systems.
Compared to evaluations using a real network, it reduces
the required CPU hours by a factor of 4500×, allowing
us to explore signiﬁcantly more scenarios and parameter
choices (§6.1).
2 Threat Model and Goals
Our work guarantees strong anonymity against sophisticated
adversaries while providing an efﬁcient, low-latency, and
fault-tolerant group-multicast anonymity network.
Assumptions We assume three types of participants in a
mix network based on the Loopix model [3]: Users are mem-
bers of one or more groups; group members can broadcast
and receive messages to and from all members of the group.
Provider nodes act as the users’ entry points to the anonymity
network; all communication to or from a speciﬁc user ﬂows
through their provider. Mix operators manage a mix node in
the core of the network; mix nodes receive messages from
other mix nodes or providers and send messages to other mix
nodes or providers. Mix nodes do not communicate directly
with users. For further details on the Loopix model and how
these participants communicate, see Section 3.
Security and Anonymity We assume a global active adver-
sary who can observe all trafﬁc, manipulate trafﬁc to remove
messages and insert new ones, as well as corrupt a subset of
mix nodes and providers. As in Loopix, sending a message to
a Rollercoaster user requires that the sender knows both the
addresses and public keys for their provider, the recipient, the
recipient’s provider, and the mix nodes.
Our scheme provides message conﬁdentiality and integrity
as well as the same strong metadata privacy guarantees as
Loopix, including sender-recipient unlinkability (preventing
an adversary from deducing which users are communicating
with each other) and sender/recipient online unobservability
(preventing an adversary from deducing which users are cur-
rently participating in any communication). More details on
these and further deﬁnitions of metadata privacy are given
by Pﬁtzmann and Hansen [6]. In addition we provide mem-
bership unobservability (preventing anyone outside the group
from determining group membership or group size). We as-
sume a group is composed of trusted members and therefore
we do not provide unlinkability or unobservability guarantees
against an attacker who compromises or colludes with group
members. The goal of the attacker is to break the conﬁdential-
ity, integrity, or metadata privacy guarantees.
Our scheme supports efﬁcient communication for group
sizes of two or more and therefore we handle pairwise and
group communication in the same way. An attacker cannot
distinguish between two-party communication and communi-
cation in a larger group.
Application Requirements Low latency is often a require-
ment in group communication. For example, user studies have
highlighted the negative implications of high network delays
in collaborative editing. One previous study [7] asked a group
of participants to transcribe audio lectures using collaborative
text editing software. The researchers investigated the effect
of communication latency by repeating the experiment multi-
ple times and varying artiﬁcial delay on all communication
between participants. A delay of 10 seconds or more had a
signiﬁcant impact in their study, with an increase of error rates
and content redundancy by more than 50%. We therefore set
our target for group multicast latency at 10 seconds for group
sizes of up to 100 people. The group size is motivated by the
active editor limit of Google Docs (100 users) and Microsoft
Sharepoint (99 users). We further require the latency to grow
sub-linearly with the size of the group, allowing effective col-
laboration in large groups. In many multi-user applications,
a large fraction of the data is generated by a small fraction
of the users (a trend that is known as participation inequal-
ity [8]), and our scheme fares well in a system with such a
distribution of activity.
Ofﬂine support is required since mobile devices do not
always have connectivity. As in the Loopix design, provider
nodes in Rollercoaster store messages on behalf of the user
until the user is next online and able to download them.
3434    30th USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

User BUser A
User C User D
P1
P2
Layer 2 Layer 3Layer 1
Figure 1: Schematic for a Loopix network with four users
(A, B, C, D), two providers (P1, P2), and a three-layer mix
network. Each node of mix layer L is connected to each node
of layer L + 1. The solid blue arrows depict one possible path
for a payload or drop message from user B to user D. The
dashed red line represents loop trafﬁc induced by a mix node.
On mobile devices, the frequency of sending network pack-
ets has a large impact on energy efﬁciency. Every transmission
promotes the mobile network connection from idle to an ac-
tive sending state after which it remains in a tail state for a few
seconds [9, §5.1]. During the active sending/receiving state
(1680 mW, data for LTE) and the tail state (1060 mW) the
power consumption is higher than during idle (594 mW) [9,
Table 3]. Every promotion from idle to active comes with addi-
tional energy costs. Therefore, sending few but large messages
with long intra-packet pauses is advantageous for battery life
on mobile devices, even if the total volume of data transmitted
is the same. On the other hand, smaller and more frequent
messages lead to lower latency.
We assume that the group membership is ﬁxed and known
to all members; we leave the problems of group formation
and adding or removing group members for future work.
3 Background
Our work builds on Loopix, which we introduce in this section.
Section 3.2 introduces multicast as it is used in this paper.
3.1 Loopix
Loopix is a mix network [10]: messages are sent via several
mix nodes to conceal their sender and destination. The route
is chosen by the sender and encoded in message headers.
Several mix network designs have been proposed: for exam-
ple, in the threshold approach, a mix node waits until a ﬁxed
number of messages have arrived, and then forwards them to
their next hops in a random order. A mix node must wait for
a sufﬁcient number of messages to arrive before forwarding
them to ensure there is signiﬁcant uncertainty in the mapping
between incoming and outgoing messages. Unfortunately,
this batching process can lead to high latency.
Loopix takes a different approach to mixing: whenever a
message passes through a node, it delays that message by a
duration dµ. For each hop the sender independently chooses
dµ randomly from the exponential distribution with rate pa-
rameter λ µ, and includes that value in the message header.
Moreover, Loopix ensures that the timings of messages
sent by any node can be modelled as a Poisson process (i.e.
the interval between messages is exponentially distributed).
Applying exponentially distributed random delay to a Poisson
process yields another Poisson process; moreover, aggregat-
ing the events from several Poisson processes yields another
Poisson process [3]. Message senders can adjust λ µ to bal-
ance the trade-off between reducing latency (increase λ µ) and
strengthening anonymity (decrease λ µ).
An individual mix node may be compromised by the ad-
versary, allowing it to learn the mapping between input and
output messages. However, a mix network provides strong
anonymity guarantees when at least one of the mix nodes on
the message’s path is trustworthy. Cover trafﬁc is added to
hide communication patterns and to prevent an attacker from
inferring message senders and recipients merely by looking
at the set of messages sent and received over time.
Loopix arranges mix nodes in l layers (where l = 3 is a
typical choice), forming a stratiﬁed topology . In this arrange-
ment, each node is connected to all nodes of the next layer,
and a message ﬂows through one mix node in each layer. The
system’s message throughput capacity can be increased by
adding more nodes to each layer.
Access to the mix network is mediated by provider nodes
(see Figure 1). Providers receive and store incoming messages
for each user in an inbox, allowing the end-user device to be
ofﬂine and download messages from the provider later. These
messages are still end-to-end encrypted and providers cannot
distinguish them from cover trafﬁc (see below). The provider
nodes are a required component if the end-user device (e.g.
smartphone) is not always connected to the Internet. More-
over, the provider nodes support revenue generation since the
provider can charge users to cover operating costs without
knowing who their customers are communicating with.
3.1.1 Messages and Trafﬁc
All Loopix messages are encrypted and padded to a ﬁxed size 1
using the Sphinx [11] mix message format. The Sphinx mes-
sage format uses layered encryption and ensures the contents
of messages change at every hop in the mix network. Fixed-
size padding renders messages containing payload trafﬁc in-
distinguishable from cover trafﬁc messages. This approach
means the attacker cannot correlate incoming and outgoing
messages based on payload contents or length. Loopix uses
three types of messages:
Drop messages are the primary form of cover trafﬁc. They
are sent by users as a Poisson process with rate parameter λ d
1The implementation accompanying the original Loopix paper uses a
message size of 1024 bytes, including headers and overheads.
USENIX Association 30th USENIX Security Symposium    3435

dp∼ exp(λ p) Delay between successive payload messages
dd∼ exp(λ d) Delay between successive drop messages
dl∼ exp(λ l) Delay between successive loop messages
dµ∼ exp(λ µ) Delay applied on message forwarding
∆ pull (constant) Polling interval for checking inboxes
dM∼ exp(λ M) Delay between successive loop messages
sent by mix nodes
Table 1: Delays are either constant or chosen from an ex-
ponential (exp) distribution with the given parameter. Our
notation slightly differs from the original paper.
and addressed to a randomly chosen user’s inbox. They follow
the full transport route from the sender’s provider through all
layers of the mix network to the recipient’s device. Recipients
download the message from their inboxes, decrypt it, and only
then identify it as drop trafﬁc and discard it.
Payload messages contain application data and are sent as
a Poisson process with rate parameter λ p. When an user sends
multiple messages in quick succession, they are added to a
send queue at the client and forwarded to the user’s provider
at an average rate of λ p. While they are in the payload send
queue, messages experience delay dQ. When there are no
payload messages waiting to be sent, a drop message is sent
instead. Keeping the send rate constant prevents irregular
trafﬁc patterns that may reveal whether a user is currently
actively communicating.
Loop messages defend against active attacks such as
(n− 1) attacks [12]. In such an attack an adversary tries to
follow the path of a message by blocking all other incoming
trafﬁc for the mix node or replacing it with its own. Loop
messages are injected by both users (at rate λ l) and mix nodes
(at rate λ M); these messages travel in a loop though all mix
layers, via a provider node, back to the sender. If the loop
messages sent by a node fail to be delivered back to that node,
it can suspect that an active attack is taking place and employ
countermeasures as described in the Loopix paper [3, §4.2.1].
Choosing suitable rate parameters depends heavily on
the application behaviour, the message size, and the capac-
ity of the underlying network. In the original Loopix paper
the values of the parameters λ p, λ d, and λ l range from one
message per second to one message per minute. With a to-
tal message size of |msg| bytes and the rates given in mes-
sages/s, the required bandwidth of a client can be estimated
as (λ p + λ d + λ l)·| msg| bytes/s.
3.2 Multicast and Group Messaging
A multicast protocol allows a single message to be delivered
to all members of a group. Broadly speaking, there are two
approaches for implementing multicast: by sending each mes-
sage individually to each recipient over unicast, or by relying
on the underlying network to make copies of a message that
are delivered to multiple recipients. IP multicast [13] is an
example of the latter approach, which avoids having to send
the same message multiple times over the same link.
In this paper we are interested in group multicast, a type
of multicast protocol in which there is a pre-deﬁned, non-
hierarchical group of users U. At any time any member of
the group might send a message to all other group members.
We call the initial sender source s and all others the intended
recipients Urecv = U\ s.
4 Naïve Approaches to Multicast
In this section we discuss the reasons why message delays
occur in Loopix. We then explore two simple approaches to
implementing multicast on Loopix, and explain why they are
not suitable, before introducing Rollercoaster in Section 5.
We deﬁne the message latency dmsg of a single unicast
message msg from user to A to user B:
dmsg = Trecv,B− Tsend,A (1)
where Tsend,A is the time at which user A’s application sends
msg, and Trecv,B is the time at which user B’s application re-
ceives the message.
In Loopix, message delays are the sum of delays at various
points in the network. First, any outbound message sent by
the user to the provider experiences a queuing delay dQ based
on the number of messages in the send queue. The delay
between two successive messages in the queue being sent,
dp, is exponentially distributed with a rate parameter λ p (see
Table 1). Hence, a message’s time spent in the send queue,
dQ, is a random variable with a Gamma distribution Γ (n, 1
λ p ),
where the shape parameter n denotes the number of messages
in the queue ahead of our message msg.
Secondly, the payload message is held up at the ingress
provider and each of the l mix nodes by an exponentially-
distributed delay dµ. Finally, the receiving user checks their
inbox in ﬁxed time intervals of ∆ pull , leading to a delay dpull
that is uniformly distributed between 0 and ∆ pull . Therefore
the message delay in a Loopix network with l layers can be
expressed as a sum of these components:
dmsg = dQ + dp + (l + 1)· dµ + dpull (2)
The above equation ignores processing and network delays.
The Loopix paper demonstrates that these are negligible com-
pared to the delays imposed by sensible rate parameters.
For a Poisson distribution with parameter λ , the expected
mean is 1/λ . The Gamma distribution Γ (n, 1
λ p ) has the mean
n
λ p . For the pull interval, the expected mean delay is ∆ pull /2.
3436    30th USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

Hence, the mean latency for Equation 2 is:
mean(dmsg) = n + 1
λ p
+ l + 1
λ µ
+ ∆ pull
2 (3)
When a source s wants to send a payload to a group by multi-
cast, we deﬁne the multicast latency D to be the time from the
initial message sending until all of the recipients Urecv have
received the message:
D = max
u∈Urecv
(Trecv,u)− Tsend,s (4)
4.1 Naïve Sequential Unicast
In the simplest implementation of multicast, the source user s
sends an individual unicast message to each of the recipients
u∈ Urecv in turn. While the messages can travel through the
mix network in parallel, their emission rate is bounded by the
payload rate λ p of the sender.
For a recipient group of size|Urecv| = m− 1, the last mes-
sage in the send queue will be behind n = m− 2 other mes-
sages. Further, the last message will incur the same network
delay and pull delay as all other unicast messages. The average
delay for the last message therefore describes the multicast
latency for when performing sequential unicast:
Dunicast = m− 1
λ p
+ l + 1
λ µ
+ ∆ pull
2 =O(m) (5)
The mean delay Dunicast therefore grows linearly with m.
As we show in Section 6, sequential unicast is too slow for
large groups with realistic choices of parameters ( λ p is typi-
cally set to less than one message per second).
Another problem with the sequential unicast approach is
that the effective rate at which a user can send messages to the
group is λ p
m−1 , as all copies of the ﬁrst message need to be sent
before the second multicast message can begin transmission.
One might argue that this problem can be addressed by
increasing the payload bandwidth by increasing the value for
λ p. However, this would require similar adjustments to the
rates for drop and loop messages to preserve the network’s
anonymity properties. As these parameters are ﬁxed across
all users, this would lead to a proportional increase in overall
bandwidth used by the network. Moreover, the factor by which
we increase λ p would be determined by the largest group
size we want to support. As a result, users participating in
smaller groups would face an unreasonable overhead. This
inefﬁciency particularly applies to users who mostly receive
and only rarely send messages.
4.2 Naïve Mix-Multicast
An alternative approach shifts the multicast distribution of
a message to mix nodes. In this scheme, the source chooses
one mix node as the multiplication node. This node receives
a single message from the source and creates |Urecv| = m− 1
mix messages sent on to the other group members. A provider
node would not be suitable as a multiplication node as it
would learn about the group memberships of its users and
their group sizes.
When the multiplication node receives such a multicast
message, it inserts m− 1 messages into its input buffer, one
for each of the recipients, and processes them as usual. This
provides optimal group message latency of D = dmsg as there
is no rate limit on messages sent by a mix node, and hence no
queuing delay. However, this design has signiﬁcant ﬂaws.
First, a corrupt multiplication mix node can learn the exact
group size|U| = m, in contravention of our threat model. This
is undesirable as it may allow an attacker to make plausible
claims regarding the presence or absence of communication
within certain groups. Even without corrupting a node, an
adversary can observe the imbalance between incoming and
outgoing messages of a multiplication node.
The weakened anonymity properties could perhaps be miti-
gated with additional cover trafﬁc that incorporates the same
behaviour as the payload trafﬁc. In particular, the cover trafﬁc
must model all possible group sizes. Allowing a group size of
200 requires cover trafﬁc to multicast by factor 200 as well.
However, this would signiﬁcantly increase the network band-
width requirements in the following mix layers, increasing
the cost of operating the network.
Permitting message multiplication also opens up the risk
of denial of service attacks: a malicious user could use the
multicast feature to send large volumes of messages to an
individual provider, mix node, or user, while requiring com-
paratively little bandwidth themselves.
Finally, supporting group multicast in a mix node requires
the input message to contain m− 1 payloads and headers, one
for each outgoing message. As all outgoing messages must
travel independently of each others they must be encrypted
with different keys for their respective next hops. Otherwise,
all outgoing messages share the same encrypted payload. This
makes it trivial for an observer to identify the recipients of
this group message. The only solution is to either increase the
size of all messages in the system or enforce a very low limit
on maximum group size.
In summary, naïvely performing message multiplication on
mix nodes is not a viable option. However, a viable variant of
this approach is possible by ﬁxing the multiplication factor of
messages to be a small constant (e.g. p = 2). We discuss this
design in Section 5.4 where we present MultiSphinx.
5 Rollercoaster
We propose Rollercoaster as an efﬁcient scheme for group
multicast in Loopix. Rollercoaster distributes the multicast
trafﬁc over multiple nodes, arranged in a distribution graph.
This not only spreads the message transmission load more
uniformly across the network, but it also improves the balance
USENIX Association 30th USENIX Security Symposium    3437

a
b
f
 g
 h
 i
 d
 e
c
A
a
b
f
 g
 h
 i
 d
 e
c
B
d
 acting as "c"
h
 i
Figure 2: Message distribution graph for a group of size m = 9
and branching factor k = 2. Graph A: Expected delivery from
source s = a. Graph B: The node c is ofﬂine and breaks
delivery to h and i. Using the fault-tolerant variant the node d
is assigned the role of c and delivers the payload to h and i.
of payload and cover trafﬁc. Rollercoaster is implemented as
a layer on top of Loopix, and it does not require any modi-
ﬁcations to the underlying Loopix protocol (we discuss an
optional protocol modiﬁcation in Section 5.4).
As we have seen with naïve sequential unicast, messages
slowly trickle from the source into the network as the source’s
message sending is limited by the payload rate λ p. However,
users who have already received the message can help dis-
tribute it: after the source has sent the message to the ﬁrst
recipient, both of them can send it to the third and fourth
recipient concurrently. Subsequently, these four nodes then
can send the message to the next four recipients, and so on,
forming a distribution tree with the initial source at the root.
The distribution tree for a set of users U is structured in
levels such that each parent node has k children at each level,
until all recipients have been included in the tree. An example
with eight recipients is shown in Figure 2. With each level the
total number of users who have the message increases by a
factor of k + 1, which implies that the total number of levels
is logarithmic in the group size|U|.
In this section we ﬁrst detail the construction of Roller-
coaster in Section 5.1. As a second step, Section 5.2 adds
fault tolerance to ensure that the scheme also works when
nodes are ofﬂine. Asymptotic delay and trafﬁc properties are
analysed in Section 5.3. Section 5.4 develops the MultiSphinx
message format, which allows restricted multicast through
designated mix nodes. Further optimisations to the scheme
are brieﬂy discussed in Section 5.5.
5.1 Detailed Construction
The Rollercoaster scheme is built upon the concept of a sched-
ule. This schedule is derived deterministically from the source
s, the total set of recipients Urecv, and the maximum branching
factor k following Algorithm 1. First, a list U of all group
members is constructed with the initial source at the 0-th in-
dex. The group size|U| and branching factor k lead to a total
of⌈logk+1|U|⌉ levels. In the t-th level the ﬁrst (k + 1)t mem-
bers have already received the message. All of them send the
message to the next w recipients, increasing the next group of
senders to (k + 1)t+1. In the 0-th level only U[0] (the initial
sender) sends k messages to U[1] . . .U[k].
Algorithm 1 The basic Rollercoaster schedule algorithm for
a given initial source s, list of recipients Urecv, and branching
factor k. The schedule contains a list for every level with a
tuple (sender, recipient) for each message to be sent.
1: procedure GENSCHEDULE (s, Urecv, k)
2: U← [s] +Urecv
3: L←⌈ logk+1|U|⌉ ⊲ number of levels
4: schedule← [ ]
5: for t = 0 until L− 1 do
6: p← (k + 1)t ⊲ ﬁrst new recipient
7: w← min(k· p,|U|− p)
8: R← [ ]
9: for i = 0 until w− 1 do
10: idxsender←⌊ i
k⌋
11: idxrecipient← p + i
12: R[i]← (U[idxsender],U[idxrecipient])
13: schedule[t]← R
14: return schedule
In order to associate an incoming message with the correct
source node and group of all recipients, all Rollercoaster pay-
loads contain a 16 byte header as illustrated in Figure 3, in
addition to the Sphinx packet header used by Loopix. Each
group is identiﬁed by a 32-bit groupid shared by all group
members. The 32-bit nonce identiﬁes previously received
messages, which becomes relevant with fault-tolerance (Sec-
tion 5.2). The ﬁelds source, sender, and role refer to individual
group members and have a 10-bit size, allowing groups with
up to 1024 members. The source ﬁeld indicates the original
sender and is necessary to construct the distribution graph at
the recipient. The ﬁelds sender and role are used by the fault
tolerant variant in Section 5.2 for acknowledgement messages
and to route around nodes that are ofﬂine. Field lengths can
easily be increased or decreased as they do not have to be
globally the same across all Loopix clients. Finally, the header
contains a signature that is generated by the original source
and covers the payload as well as all static header ﬁelds. It
assures recipients that the message indeed originated from
a legitimate group member and that they are not tricked by
an adversary to start distributing a fake message to group
3438    30th USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30
groupid
nonce
source sender role
Signature over{groupid , nonce, source, payload}
. . . payload . . .
Figure 3: Payload header for the Rollercoaster scheme con-
taining both the ﬁelds for the minimal scheme and the ﬁelds
necessary for the fault-tolerance variant and further optimisa-
tions.
members. The sender and role ﬁelds are not covered by the
signature, allowing nodes that are not the original source to
modify these ﬁelds without invalidating the signature.
5.2 Adding Fault Tolerance
The basic Rollercoaster scheme of Section 5.1 fails when
users are ofﬂine and cannot perform their role of forwarding
messages. In this case, one or more recipients in later levels
would not receive the message until their parent node returns
online. The risk of this approach becomes apparent when
looking at the graph in Figure 2B, where a single unavailable
node causes message loss for its entire subtree. In principle,
the responsibility for forwarding messages could be delegated
to the provider nodes, which are assumed to always be online.
However, we consider this approach not to be desirable as
the adversary could learn about the group membership by
compromising a provider.
Rollercoaster with fault-tolerance achieves reliable deliv-
ery through acknowledgement (ACK) replies to the source
and reassignment of roles. When the source sends a message
it sets timeouts by which time it expects an acknowledgement
from the recipient and each of its children. The individual
timeouts account for the number of hops and the expected de-
lays at each hop due to mix node delays and messages waiting
in send queues. ACKs are sent through the mix network like
any other unicast message. When receiving an ACK from a
node, the source marks the sending node as delivered. Choos-
ing the source as the main coordinator is reasonable as it has
the strongest incentive for ensuring delivery of all messages.
Loopix allows a high rate of messages received by users, so it
is not a problem if one user receives a large number of ACKs.
The source responds to a timeout by sending the message
to a different node. For this, each node maintains a list of
most-recently-seen nodes based on received messages and
chooses one from it heuristically. The source itself is part
of that list as the ultimate replacement node. A replacement
node is only necessary when the failing node would have for-
warded the message to others, i.e. when it is not a leaf node
of the distribution tree (see Algorithm 10 in Appendix B). In-
dependently of this and in case that the message did not reach
the intended recipient due to message loss, a retry message is
sent (with exponential back-off) to the failed node again with
its own timeout.
We start the timeouts associated with a message when
the underlying Loopix implementation sends the message
to the provider, so that the timeouts do not need to include the
sender’s queuing delay. Since the sender knows the global rate
parameters λ p and λ µ, it takes these into account when deter-
mining timeouts. The timeout may further be adjusted based
on the network conﬁguration and application requirements.
The fault-tolerance mechanism makes use of the message
ﬁelds source, sender, and role shown in Figure 3. The source
ﬁeld remains unchanged as the message is forwarded because
it is required for constructing the schedule at each node. It
also indicates the node to which the ACK should be sent.
The sender ﬁeld is updated when forwarding a message or
sending an ACK and used by the recipient to update their list
of most-recently-seen nodes. The role ﬁeld indicates the role
that the receiving node should perform, usually their natural
identity. However, when a node is ofﬂine, another node might
be assigned its role, i.e. its position in the distribution tree.
In this case, the role ﬁeld indicates the node as which the
recipient should act. Retry messages to failed nodes have an
empty role ﬁeld, because the role has already been reassigned.
On receiving any payload message msg, the recipient node
hands over the payload to the application and reconstructs
the schedule using msg.source, msg.groupid, and msg.nonce.
For every child node of msg.role in the schedule, the node
enqueues a message for the respective recipient, making sure
to update msg.role. The ACK reply is enqueued after the
payload messages so that no ACK is sent if a node goes
ofﬂine before forwarding a message to all of its children in
the distribution tree.
ACK messages contain the groupid, nonce, source, and role
ﬁelds of the original message and an updated sender ﬁeld,
which allow the recipient of the ACK (i.e., the source) to
identify and cancel the corresponding timeout. The sender
adds a signature covering all header ﬁelds to ensure that the
ACK message cannot be forged. When an ACK is not received
on time, the message is sent to a different node as described
above.
If the connection between a user and their provider is inter-
rupted, we rely on the fact that Loopix allows users to retrieve
received messages from their inbox later. The user’s software
notices a loss of connection and pauses timeouts until it has
had a chance to check the inbox on the provider again.
After a long ofﬂine period, a node’s inbox may contain a
large backlog of messages that were received by the provider
while the user was ofﬂine. When a node comes back online, it
treats this backlog differently from messages received while
USENIX Association 30th USENIX Security Symposium    3439

online: for any messages received while ofﬂine, a node only
delivers the payloads to the application, but it does not send
ACK messages or forward messages to other nodes. Here the
node avoids doing unnecessary work for messages where the
timeout is likely to have already expired.
Algorithm 8 in Appendix B describes the behaviour of the
fault-tolerant variant in detail.
5.2.1 Eventual Delivery and Byzantine Fault Tolerance
The fault-tolerant variant of Rollercoaster assumes that the
source node acts honestly and does not disconnect perma-
nently (but can do so intermittently). This is reasonable as
the sending user has high incentive to see through the deliv-
ery of their message. We prove eventual delivery under this
assumption in the extended paper (see Appendix C). An ap-
plication might provide the user with a suitable user interface
that shows the delivery process.
Proof sketch: Everyone who does not ACK the payload
will eventually receive it directly from the source, and will
read it from their inbox when they return online. This works
even in the presence of malicious nodes that acknowledge a
message without forwarding it, since the source has individual
timeouts for each group member. Therefore, the source will
detect when a node’s children do not send ACKs.
However, the source node might be disconnected perma-
nently. To nevertheless guarantee eventual delivery, every
group member can periodically pick another group member
at random and send it a hash of the message history it has
seen so far (ordered in a deterministic way so that two users
with the same set of messages obtain the same hash). If the
recipient does not recognise the hash, the users run a reconcil-
iation protocol [14] to exchange any messages that are known
to only one of the users. Such a protocol provably guarantees
that every user eventually receives every message, even if
some of the users are Byzantine-faulty, provided that every
user eventually exchanges hashes with every other user [14].
5.3 Exploring Delay and Trafﬁc
We ﬁrst analyse the expected multicast latency of Roller-
coaster without fault tolerance by considering the levels of
the distribution tree, as illustrated in Figure 2. The expected
multicast latency Drollercoaster is determined by the longest
message forwarding paths C1,C2, . . .. Each such path is de-
ﬁned as C = e0, . . . ,e|C|−1 where ei is a edge from a node on
level i to a node on level i + 1. We call these edges one-level
edges. The number of levels of the schedule generated by
Algorithm 1 is L =⌈logk+1|U|⌉ as discussed in §5.1. Hence,
no path is longer than L. An example of a longest path is
C = (a, b)(b, g) in Figure 2. The mean message delay when
traversing each edge of the graph is ¯dmsg = ¯dQ + ¯dt , where ¯dQ
is the mean queuing delay and ¯dt = ¯dp + (l + 1)· ¯dµ + ¯dpull is
the message’s mean travel time through the network, as in (2).
Scheme Latency D Packet size overhead
Naïve Unicast O(m) −
Naïve Multicast O(1) O(m)
Rollercoaster O(log m) O(1)
Table 2: Overhead of the presented multicast schemes in terms
of group multicast delay and packet size overhead.
Since each node sends no more than a total of k messages to
the directly subsequent level, the expected queuing delay for
the last message is ¯dQ = k−1
λ p .
However, there are also edges from a node on level i to
a node on level i + j where j > 1. One example is (a, d) in
Figure 2. Messages from level i to level i + 1 are sent before
any messages that skip levels, and therefore any level-skipping
messages may experience higher queuing delay before they
are sent. Concretely, the edges from level i to level i + j
will incur an additional expected queuing delay of at most
( j− 1)· ¯dQ compared to one-level edges. At the same time,
these edges save j− 1 hops, which would have incurred both
a queuing delay ¯dQ and a travel time ¯dt each. Hence, the time
saved by the reduced hop count outweighs the extra queuing
delay.
Thus, the expected time for a message to be received by
all nodes is determined by the longest path consisting of only
one-level edges, with a queuing delay of ¯dQ = k−1
λ p at each
hop:
Drollercoaster = L· ( ¯dQ + ¯dt ) =⌈logk+1 m⌉· ¯dmsg (6)
Hence, the group multicast latency is logarithmically de-
pendent on the group size m and contains a multiplicative
factor that equals the time to send a single message after
being queued behind at most k messages.
When a node is ofﬂine, it will only be able to receive mes-
sages when it comes online and queries its inbox. In case
the ofﬂine node is a forwarding node, the source will detect
the lack of an ACK after the timeout expired. In this case
the latency penalty for the children of the failed node is the
timeout of the parent node, which is typically proportional to
the expected delivery time.
5.4 p-Restricted Multicast with MultiSphinx
As speciﬁed so far, Rollercoaster uses the unmodiﬁed Loopix
protocol. However, even though Rollercoaster spreads the
work of sending a multicast message more evenly across the
network than sequential unicast, payload messages and ACKs
are still demanding for nodes’ send queues.
In this section, we consider a modiﬁcation to the Loopix
protocol that further improves multicast performance: namely,
we allow some mix nodes to multiply one input message into
3440    30th USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

λ l
λ d
λ p
loop
drop
payload
λ
λ′
l
λ′
d
λ′p
loop
drop
payload
p = 2
λ′
A Standard Loopix B p-Restricted Multicast
Figure 4: Standard Loopix (A) sends out a message if any of
its Poisson processes triggers, so the rate of messages sent is
λ = λ p + λ d + λ l. In p-restricted multicast (B) these Poisson
processes are still independent, but the node has an extra
layer that awaits p messages, which are then wrapped into
a MultiSphinx message. The sender can increase λ′
p to pλ p
(same for λ′
d, λ′
l) while keeping λ′ = λ .
multiple output messages, which may be sent to different
recipients. The naïve mix-multicast we considered in Sec-
tion 4.2 allows arbitrary multiplication factors. Here we show
how to make mix-node-supported multicast safe by restrict-
ing the multiplication factor to a ﬁxed constant p. We call
this approach p-restricted multicast where clients can send
p messages inside one MultiSphinx package; with p = 1 this
scheme is identical to the regular Rollercoaster.
In p-restricted multicast, only mix nodes in one designated
layer may multiply messages. In our design, we perform mul-
tiplication in the middle layer (layer 2 of 3) and we refer to
these mix nodes as multiplication nodes. To ensure unlinkabil-
ity of mix nodes’ inputs and outputs, every message processed
by a multiplication node must result in p output messages,
regardless of the message type or destination. Mix nodes in
other layers retain the standard one-in-one-out behaviour of
Loopix. Since layer 3 of the mix network needs to process p
times as many messages as the earlier layers, layer 3 should
contain p times as many mix nodes as layers 2.
This paper uses the parameter p for p-restricted multicast
and k for the schedule algorithm. These can be chosen inde-
pendently of each other. However, for simplicity and practical
interdependence we often set both to the same value k = p.
Effectively, p-restricted multicast allows p messages to
different recipients to be packaged as a single message up to
p times the size. Sending fewer but larger messages allows for
lower power consumption on mobile devices, as discussed in
our application requirements (§2). We show in our evaluation
in §6.5 that p-restricted multicast allows choosing much larger
λ values while maintaining low latency.
5.4.1 The MultiSphinx message format
Loopix encodes all messages using the Sphinx message for-
mat [11], which consists of a header M containing all metadata
and an encrypted payload δ . Using the header, each mix node
ni derives a secret shared key si. Due to the layered encryp-
tion of the header and payload, an adversary cannot correlate
incoming and outgoing packets when observing mix nodes.
Our construction is based on the improved Sphinx packet
format [15] which uses authenticated encryption (AE). In
particular, we use a stream cipher C in an encrypt-then-MAC
regime and require that without the knowledge of the key, the
generated ciphertext is indistinguishable from random noise
(which is believed to be the case for modern ciphers such as
AES-CTR). Every hop veriﬁes integrity of the entire message
to prevent active tagging attacks. The improved Sphinx packet
format satisﬁes the ideal functionality of Sphinx [16]. The
per-hop integrity checks of the entire message come at the
cost of lacking support for anonymous reply messages, but
these are not used by Loopix.
Sphinx assumes that each input message to a mix node
results in exactly one output message. In order to support
p-restricted multicast we introduce the MultiSphinx message
format, which can wrap p messages. A MultiSphinx mes-
sage is unwrapped at a designated mix node, and split into
p independent messages. For anyone other than the desig-
nated multiplication node, MultiSphinx messages are indis-
tinguishable from regular Sphinx packets. We now describe
the MultiSphinx design for p = 2 by describing the creation
and processing of these messages. The detailed construction
and processing is formalised in Appendix A.2.
For p = 2, the sender waits until its message queues (pay-
load, drop, loop) have released two messages. The sender
then combines their payloads δ A, δ B and recipients UA,UB
into a single message that is inserted into the mix network, as
shown in Figure 4. As we want to ﬁt both payloads and two
headers into our message to the multiplication node, |δ A| and
|δ B| must be smaller than the global Sphinx payload size.
The combined message is sent via a mix node n0 in the ﬁrst
layer to the designated multiplication node n1, where its inner
messages are extracted and added to its input buffer. The inner
message containing δ A will be processed by n1 and routed
via n2,A to the recipient nA (and similarly for B). The multi-
plication node derives the secret key s1 from the incoming
message’s header and additional secret keys s1,A, s1,B from
the headers of the inner messages. We omit provider nodes.
The sender ﬁrst computes all secret keys. Using these secret
keys it encrypts the payloads δ A, δ B between the recipients
and the multiplication node. However, the resulting encrypted
payloads are smaller than the regular Sphinx payload lengths.
To ensure all messages have the same size, we use a pseudo-
random function (PRF, e.g. HMAC) ρ to add padding to
the encrypted payloads δ 1,A and δ 1,B. ρ is keyed with the
shared secret s1 and the payload index ( A or B) so that the
padding is unique. The resulting payloads have the format
δ′
1,A = δ 1,A‖ ρ (s1‖ A) (and similarly for B). Now the sender
computes the headers and MACs along the path from the
multiplication node to the recipients by simulating the decryp-
USENIX Association 30th USENIX Security Symposium    3441

tion of the payload at each step. This results in two Sphinx
headers M1,A and M1,B. Finally, we create the message for
the path from the sender to the multiplication node using the
regular Sphinx construction. We set the payload of that mes-
sage to the concatenation δ combined = M1,A‖ δ 1,A‖ M1,B‖ δ 1,B.
Appendix A.2 contains pseudocode for this construction.
The processing of incoming messages at the multiplication
node differs from other nodes. First, the payload is decrypted
and split into the message headers and payloads. Then, the
payloads are deterministically padded using the PRF ρ as
described above. To ensure that the messages are hard to cor-
relate, they are added to the node’s input buffer, decrypted
again (now deriving secrets s1,{A,B}), and delayed indepen-
dently as deﬁned by their individual delay parameter.
5.4.2 Anonymity of MultiSphinx
All MultiSphinx messages (before and after the multiplica-
tion node) have the same header length and payload length
as regular Sphinx messages. Sphinx headers do not leak the
number of remaining hops and the ciphertext is indistinguish-
able from random noise. Therefore, MultiSphinx messages
are indistinguishable from regular Loopix messages. At the
same time, the multiplication node maintains the unlinkability
between the incoming messages and outgoing messages as
these are delayed independently.
An adversary might also corrupt mix nodes. Even in this
case they do not gain advantage over regular Sphinx message
with regards to sender and recipient anonymity and unlinka-
bility. These results also hold for active adversaries with the
capabilities from the original Loopix paper.
If an adversary controls a p-restricted multiplication node
and c3 of the n3 mix nodes of the third layer, they can trace
some messages from their multiplication to their delivery at
providers. On the basis that the p recipients of a MultiSphinx
message are likely to be members of the same group, the
adversary then has a chance to guess that any two of the
users from these providers share a group membership. The
probability of correctly guessing two group members given
a group message is less than (1− ( n3−c3
n3
)p−1)·|P|2
|U|2 if all
|U| users are evenly distributed among |P| providers. This
attack is prevented if the multiplication node or all but one
of the chosen nodes in the third layer are trustworthy. (In
contrast, standard Loopix requires only that any mix node
on the message path is trustworthy.) MultiSphinx does not
leak any information regarding group sizes. The extended
paper (see Appendix C) contains theorems and proofs for our
claims.
In addition to these properties, it is possible to achieve
sender anonymity by ﬁrst forwarding the message to a trusted
group member. The sender can prove its membership through
a shared group secret. We leave receiver anonymity and un-
linkable group membership for future work.
5.5 Further Optimisations
The schedule computed by G ENSCHEDULE in Algorithm 1
delivers the ﬁrst messages to the nodes at the beginning of
the provided recipient list Urecv. These nodes will always act
as the forwarding nodes. To better balance these among all
group members, one can shufﬂe the list based on a nonce
value that is part of the message. This variant is described
in Algorithm 2. As the G ENSCHEDULE RAND algorithm is
still deterministic and the nonce is part of the Rollercoaster
header, each node reconstructs the same schedule.
Algorithm 2 Creating a pseudorandomized schedule for a
given nonce
1: procedure GENSCHEDULE RAND (s, Urecv, k, nonce)
2: R← NEWPRNG (nonce)
3: U′
recv← R.shufﬂe (Urecv)
4: return GENSCHEDULE (s, U′
recv, k)
Further optimisation is possible if different sub-groups dis-
play different levels of activity and connectivity. For example,
if there is a small, active sub-group communicating while the
rest of the group remains passive, it is more important for mes-
sages to travel faster between active nodes to support swift,
effective collaboration. Active nodes can often be assumed
to be more likely to be online. Agreeing on the full order is
no longer possible through a single nonce value. However,
the source can randomly compute a subset of all schedules,
evaluate the generated schedule against its information about
the group members, and choose one that creates a schedule
with the most desirable properties.
6 Evaluation
For the empirical evaluation we developed a mix network sim-
ulation tool that provides fully reproducible results. First, we
discuss the behaviour and results of the Rollercoaster scheme
in an ideal scenario where all participants are online through-
out. Second, we discuss the impact of ofﬂine nodes and how
this is addressed by the fault-tolerant variant of Rollercoaster.
Finally, we discuss the impact of multi-group membership,
sending multiple messages at once, and p-restricted multicast.
6.1 Methodology
Since the real-world performance of Loopix has been prac-
tically demonstrated [3] we run a simulation instead of an
experiment on a real network. This provides clear practical
advantages: First, it allows us to eliminate external inﬂuences
such as network congestion due to unrelated trafﬁc or CPU
usage by other processes. Second, the simulated time can run
faster than real-time, allowing us to gather signiﬁcantly more
results using less computational resources. Third, it makes
monitoring and categorising trafﬁc easier as packets and node
3442    30th USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

state can be inspected. Finally, by initialising the PRNG with
a ﬁxed seed, the results of this paper are fully reproducible.
The simulator runs the entire mix network on a single ma-
chine, with nodes communicating through shared memory
simulating a network. It instantiates objects for each partici-
pating user, provider, and mix node. All objects implement
a tick() method in which they process incoming messages
and mimic the designed node behaviour such as delaying and
forwarding packets. As we are primarily interested in the traf-
ﬁc behaviour, no actual encryption is performed. The original
Loopix paper has shown that the queuing time and per-hop
delays dominate the message delay, and that CPU time for
cryptographic operations is insigniﬁcant in comparison. Simi-
larly, the network delay is negligible.
For the ﬁnal evaluation we ran 276 independent simulations,
covering more than 992,160 hours of simulated node time in
less than 209 hours of CPU core time. This is a relative speed
up by factor 4500× compared to a real network experiment of
the same scope. In every simulation step the application (see
below) measures the message latency dmsg of each delivered
message between the original source and each recipient. We
veriﬁed that our simulator behaves faithfully to the Loopix
implementation by reproducing a latency distribution graph
from the original paper [3, Figure 11]. Our simulator is im-
plemented in less than 2,000 lines of Python code including
tests and is available as an open-source project. 2
The network simulator assigns 16 users to each provider.
We set the Loopix rates λ p = λ d = λ l = 2/s for the client
nodes and the delay rate λ µ = 3/s. Hence, the overall sending
rate of the clients is λ = 6/s. This meets the requirement
λ /λ µ≥ 2 that is suggested by the Loopix paper [3, p. 1209,
λ µ = µ]. The mix network consists of 3 layers containing
3 mix nodes each (mix loop injection rate λ M = 2/s). All
simulations are run with a granularity of 10 ms per tick. The
simulated time span for all conﬁgurations is 24 h.
The application behaviour is modelled by a Poisson pro-
cess. On average every 30 s one of the online nodes sends
a single message to all other group members. We account
for participation inequality [8] by dividing the group using
an 80/20 rule: 20% of users in the group send 80% of all
messages, and vice versa.
6.2 Results with All Users Online
For a group of size 128, the average latency is reduced from
34.9 s in sequential unicast to 7.0 s (8.3 s for group size 256)
in Rollercoaster with k = p = 2 . This fulﬁls our application
requirements that were derived from the user study concern-
ing delay in collaborative applications [7]. The results are
compatible with our analytical results as discussed in Sec-
tion 5.3. For Rollercoaster not only is the average latency low,
but most of the latency distribution falls within fairly tight
bounds – that is, very large latencies are rare. Figure 5 shows
2https://github.com/lambdapioneer/rollercoaster
 m = 32
  m = 45
  m = 64
  m = 91
  m = 128
  m = 181
  m = 256
Group size
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
Message latency
dmsg [s]
p99 = 151.5s
Unicast
 RC (k = p = 1)
 RC (k = p = 2)
Figure 5: This box plot shows the distributions of message
latency dmsg for increasing group sizes for the strategies naïve
sequential unicast and Rollercoaster (RC). The Rollercoaster
strategies show different k and p parameters. The boxes span
from the ﬁrst quartile to the third quartile (middle line is the
median) and the whiskers indicate the 1st and 99th percentile.
the latency achieved by the Rollercoaster scheme with and
without p-restricted multicast for different percentiles and
compares them to unicast. For a group with 128 members
the 99th percentile p99 for Rollercoaster is 12.3 s (p90: 9.9 s)
whereas in unicast it is 75.6 s (p90: 60.8 s). We provide de-
tailed histograms in the extended paper (see Appendix C).
6.3 Results for Fault-Tolerance Scenarios
The evaluation of the fault tolerance properties requires a
realistic model of connectivity of mobile devices. For this we
processed data from the Device Analyzer project [17] that
contains usage data of volunteers who installed the Android
app. The online/ofﬂine state of a device is derived from its
trace information regarding network state, signal strength, and
airplane mode. We limit the dataset ( n = 27790) to traces that
contain connectivity information ( n = 25618), cover at least
48 hours ( n = 20117), and have no interval larger than 12
hours without any data ( n = 2772).
Inspecting the traces we identify three archetypes of online
behaviour. The ﬁrst group is online most of the time and is
only interrupted by shorter ofﬂine segments of less than 60
minutes. Members of the second group have at least one large
online segment of > 8 hours and are on average online 50%
or more of the time. Finally, the third group is online less
than 50% of the time with many frequent changes between
online and ofﬂine states. As the dataset is more than ﬁve years
old we decided to use the characteristics of these groups to
build a model. Using a model allows us to extrapolate ofﬂine
behaviour into scenarios with increased connectivity. In the
model following the parameters of the original dataset, the
fraction of all users’ time spent online is 65%. In a second
and third model with increased connectivity, we increase this
percentage to 80% and 88%, respectively, while preserving
the behaviour of the archetype groups. The generated models
are visualised in the extended paper (see Appendix C).
USENIX Association 30th USENIX Security Symposium    3443

65% onl.
 80% onl.
 88% onl.
Group size m = 128
1
10
100
1000
10000
Message latency dmsg [s]
65% onl.
 80% onl.
 88% onl.
Group size m = 256
1
10
100
1000
10000
Unicast
 RC (k = p = 2)
 RC-FT (k = p = 1)
 RC-FT (k = p = 2)
Figure 6: The distribution of message latency dmsg for differ-
ent ofﬂine scenarios. From left to right the strategies are Uni-
cast, Rollercoaster without fault-tolerance (RC), and Roller-
coaster with fault-tolerance (RC-FT). Boxes and whiskers as
in Figure 5.
1
 2
 4
 8
 16
Total number of groups (100% online)
1
10
100
Message latency
dmsg [s]
1
 2
 4
 8
 16
Total number of groups (80% online)
1
10
100
Unicast
 RC-FT (k = p = 1)
 RC-FT (k = p = 2)
Figure 7: Message latency dmsg for an increasing number of
groups for 128 users (every user is member of every group).
Boxes and whiskers as in Figure 5.
For our discussion of ofﬂine behaviour we reﬁne our previ-
ous deﬁnition of message latency dmsg: we ignore all latencies
where the intended recipient was ofﬂine when the message
was placed into their inbox by the provider node. This change
has the practical beneﬁt of excluding outliers. More impor-
tantly, fast delivery to an ofﬂine user has no real-world beneﬁt.
Instead, a good multicast algorithm should optimise the de-
livery to all nodes that are active and can actually process an
incoming message. The source might go ofﬂine at any time
regardless of outstanding messages.
Without fault tolerance, the presence of ofﬂine nodes
greatly increases the 99th percentile ( p99) for Rollercoaster
(RC) to more than 10,000 s for a group of 128 members. The
fault-tolerant variant (RC-FT) reduces the 99th percentile to
less than 21.9 s (p90: 18.0 s). In unicast p99 latency is 103.3 s
(p90: 61.9 s). Figure 6 shows that the fault-tolerant variant gen-
erally outperforms unicast at various percentiles. We provide
detailed histograms in the extended paper (see Appendix C).
6.4 Multiple Groups and Message Bursts
Users might be part of multiple groups, which increases their
burden of distributing messages. In this evaluation we assign
128 users to a growing number of groups. Figure 7 shows that
the number of group memberships has little impact on Roller-
coaster’s performance both for online and ofﬂine scenarios.
 1
  2
  4
  8
  16
  32
Message burst b (100% online)
1
10
100
1000
10000
Message latency
dmsg [s]
 1
  2
  4
  8
  16
  32
Message burst b (80% online)
1
10
100
1000
10000
Unicast
 RC-FT (k = p = 1)
 RC-FT (k = p = 2)
Figure 8: Message latency dmsg for applications that send b
messages at once. The group size is m = 128. Boxes and
whiskers as in Figure 5.
k= 1,
p= 1
k= 2,
p= 1
k= 4,
p= 1
k= 8,
p= 1
k= 16,
p= 1
λ/1
λ/2
λ/4
λ/8
λ/16
k=p= 1
k=p= 2
k=p= 4
k=p= 8
k=p= 16
λ/1
λ/2
λ/4
λ/8
λ/16
0
50
100
150
200
mean dmsg
Figure 9: Heatmaps showing the mean message latency for
reduced sending rates (y-axis) and different Rollercoaster
parameters (x-axis). In the left graph only the logical branch
factor k is increased. In the right graph the multicast factor
p is increased at the same time. Group size is m = 128 and
80% online.
Similarly, users might be sharing large payloads (e.g. im-
ages) or sending multiple updates at once. Both translate into
many messages being scheduled for distribution at the same
time, which risks overwhelming the payload queue. Figure 8
shows that Rollercoaster can handle many more messages
sent in bursts than unicast. We observed that with unicast
and some Rollercoaster conﬁgurations some nodes had indeﬁ-
nitely growing send buffers as the simulation progressed. The
effect of this can be seen by the higher message latencies for
b = 32. This threshold is higher for p-restricted multicast.
6.5 Results for p-Restricted Multicast
In this evaluation we show that p-restricted multicast allows
us to drastically lower the sending rates λ{p,d,l} of the clients
while achieving similar performance. A low sending rate is
desirable as it allows the radio network module to return to
standby and thereby saving signiﬁcant battery energy on mo-
bile devices (see §2). Figure 9 shows that just increasing k
(left) has negligible or even negative impact, while increasing
k and p together (right) allows for lower sending rate λ while
maintaining good enough performance. We decrease λ µ ac-
cordingly to maintain the λ /λ µ≥ 2 balance (see §6.1) which
increases the per-hop delays.
3444    30th USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

7 Related Work
Previous research on efﬁcient anonymity networks achieves
strong security goals, high efﬁciency, scalability, and ofﬂine
support. However, decentralised low-latency group multicast
while guaranteeing the strongest privacy guarantees against a
global adversary has not yet received due attention.
Work based on Dining Cryptographer networks (DC-nets)
[18] is inherently broadcast-based as the round results are
shared with all nodes. These designs generally provide sender
anonymity and impressive functionality. However, the re-
quired synchronisation and communication overhead render
them unsuitable for low latency applications. As the rounds
depend on the calculations of all clients, they can be suscepti-
ble to interference by malicious participants. The Xor-Trees
by Dolev et al. [19] achieve efﬁcient multicast, but only in
the absence of an active attacker. Dissent [20] can provide
protection against such active attacks. However, its design
does not scale as well as Loopix due to its need to broadcast
messages to all clients, and not just the intended group of
recipients.
Circuit-based onion routing networks such as Tor [1] es-
tablish long-living paths through multiple hops. All messages
from and to the client are transmitted via the same path with
every node peeling off the outer-most encryption layer. They
are arguably the most widely deployed and accessible class of
anonymity network designs. While the onion path approach
allows for low latency communication, it is known to be vul-
nerable against global adversaries performing trafﬁc analysis
attacks [2, 21]. Most mainstream designs consider one-to-
one communication, but there is interesting work on building
multicast trees using onion-routing techniques. Examples are
AP3 [22], M2 [23], and MTor [24]. When facing a global
adversary, they share similar vulnerabilities to Tor.
Multicast in friend-to-friend overlays as in VOUTE [25,26]
share a similarity with our work as trusted peers help with
message distribution. However, to our knowledge, there are
no practical implementations with performance similar to
Loopix. Using real-world trust relationships together with
Rollercoaster for inter-group communication is an interesting
direction for future work.
The recent Vuvuzela design [27] cleverly leverages dead
drops and cover trafﬁc to achieve strong metadata privacy
while maintaining a high throughput of messages. Pursuing
the goal of limiting network bandwidth use results in delays
of up to 10 minutes to initiate a call and more than 30 seconds
latency for messages, which we consider too large for many
collaborative applications. Its privacy guarantees can be lim-
ited in the case of an active attacker with a priori suspicion of
a certain group of users communicating.
Work based on private information retrieval (PIR) such
as Pung [28] and Talek [29] allows for low-latency group
communication with strong security guarantees. However,
these systems are not decentralised and rely on the availability
of high-spec servers. Moreover, their latency scales with the
total number of users n rather than the group sizes.
We note that our evaluation differs from the standard meth-
ods in similar papers [3, 20, 27] using real servers and net-
works. Since it is already established that the performance
of Loopix is viable in practise, we can build on top of this
and focus on more inspectable and reproducible evaluations
through deterministic simulation.
The Shadow project [30] can simulate actual anonymity
network implementations in a network topology on a single
machine. With extensive modelling options the network and
user behaviour can be modelled deterministically. However,
since the application binaries remain black-boxes it cannot
guarantee complete deterministic behaviour. White-box simu-
lators such as Mixim [31] calculate the entropy as messages
pass through the system.
Many multicast systems use distribution trees [32 – 36].
However, to our knowledge, these protocols have not yet been
applied in the context of mix networks, where the limited
send rate and artiﬁcial message delays introduce particular
challenges not considered by existing multicast protocols.
8 Conclusion
In this paper we have presented an efﬁcient scheme for multi-
cast in mix networks named Rollercoaster. Compared to the
sender of a message naïvely sending it to all other group mem-
bers by unicast, our scheme signiﬁcantly lowers the time until
all group members receive the message. For a group of size
m = 128, Rollercoaster is faster by a factor of 5, reducing
the average delay from 34.9 s to 7.0 s and reducing the 99th
percentile from 75.6 s to 12.3 s. We do this by involving more
users than just the original sender in the process of dissem-
inating a message to group members. This also reduces the
asymptotic growth of the expected delay to O(log m). A key
ingredient for this is the deterministic G ENSCHEDULE algo-
rithm that allows users to share plans for message distribution
using a single nonce.
Faced with the challenge of unreliable and ofﬂine nodes,
we have introduced a variant of our algorithm that allows
acknowledgement and retry of message delivery as well as
reassignment of tasks from ofﬂine to online users. In the
failure-free case, it adds a constant message overhead that
does not worsen the results measured. When nodes are ofﬂine
it signiﬁcantly improves reliability and delays.
Our simulation tool enabled us to obtain reproducible and
inspectable performance measurements. The low cost of simu-
lation enabled us to efﬁciently explore the behaviour of many
system conﬁgurations with a large number of users.
In future work we plan to implement and run collaborative
applications and group messaging protocols on a network
using Rollercoaster. We also hope to extend Rollercoaster
with facilities to add or remove members of a group.
USENIX Association 30th USENIX Security Symposium    3445

Acknowledgements
We thank Steven J. Murdoch, Killian Davitt, and our anony-
mous reviewers for the helpful discussions and their valu-
able input. Daniel Hugenroth is supported by a Nokia Bell
Labs Scholarship and the Cambridge European Trust. Martin
Kleppmann is supported by a Leverhulme Trust Early Ca-
reer Fellowship, the Isaac Newton Trust, Nokia Bell Labs,
and crowdfunding supporters including Ably, Adrià Arcarons,
Chet Corcos, Macrometa, Mintter, David Pollak, RelationalAI,
SoftwareMill, Talent Formation Network, and Adam Wiggins.
Alastair R. Beresford is partially supported by EPSRC [grant
number EP/M020320/1].
References
[1] R. Dingledine, N. Mathewson, and P . Syverson, “Tor:
The second-generation onion router,” tech. rep., Naval
Research Lab Washington DC, 2004.
[2] S. J. Murdoch and G. Danezis, “Low-cost trafﬁc analy-
sis of Tor,” in 2005 IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy, pp. 183–195, IEEE, 2005.
[3] A. M. Piotrowska, J. Hayes, T. Elahi, S. Meiser, and
G. Danezis, “The Loopix anonymity system,” in 26th
USENIX Security Symposium, pp. 1199–1216, 2017.
[4] M. Kleppmann, S. A. Kollmann, D. A. V asile, and A. R.
Beresford, “From secure messaging to secure collab-
oration,” in 26th International Workshop on Security
Protocols, pp. 179–185, Springer, 2018.
[5] M. Ahmed-Nacer, C.-L. Ignat, G. Oster, H.-G. Roh, and
P . Urso, “Evaluating CRDTs for real-time document
editing,” in 11th ACM Symposium on Document Engi-
neering, pp. 103–112, ACM, Sept. 2011.
[6] A. Pﬁtzmann and M. Hansen, “A terminology
for talking about privacy by data minimization:
Anonymity, unlinkability, undetectability, unobservabil-
ity, pseudonymity, and identity management,” Aug.
2010. v0.34, http://dud.inf.tu-dresden.de/
literatur/Anon_Terminology_v0.34.pdf.
[7] C.-L. Ignat, G. Oster, O. Fox, V . L. Shalin, and F. Charoy,
“How do user groups cope with delay in real-time collab-
orative note taking,” in 14th European Conference on
Computer Supported Cooperative Work, pp. 223–242,
Springer, Sept. 2015.
[8] J. Nielsen, “The 90-9-1 rule for participation in-
equality in social media and online communi-
ties,” 2006. https://www.nngroup.com/articles/
participation-inequality/.
[9] J. Huang, F. Qian, A. Gerber, Z. M. Mao, S. Sen, and
O. Spatscheck, “A close examination of performance
and power characteristics of 4G LTE networks,” in 10th
International Conference on Mobile Systems, Applica-
tions, and Services, pp. 225–238, 2012.
[10] D. Chaum, “Untraceable electronic mail, return ad-
dresses, and digital pseudonyms,” Communications of
the ACM, vol. 24, no. 2, 1981.
[11] G. Danezis and I. Goldberg, “Sphinx: A compact and
provably secure mix format,” in 30th IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy , pp. 269–282, IEEE, 2009.
[12] A. Serjantov, R. Dingledine, and P . Syverson, “From a
trickle to a ﬂood: Active attacks on several mix types,” in
International Workshop on Information Hiding , pp. 36–
52, Springer, 2002.
[13] S. Deering, “Host extensions for IP multicasting,”
STD 5, RFC Editor, August 1989. http://www.
rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1112.txt.
[14] M. Kleppmann and H. Howard, “Byzantine eventual
consistency and the fundamental limits of peer-to-peer
databases,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.00472, 2020.
[15] F. Beato, K. Halunen, and B. Mennink, “Improving
the Sphinx mix network,” in International Conference
on Cryptology and Network Security , pp. 681–691,
Springer, 2016.
[16] C. Kuhn, M. Beck, and T. Strufe, “Breaking and (par-
tially) ﬁxing provably secure onion routing,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:1910.13772, 2019.
[17] D. T. Wagner, A. Rice, and A. R. Beresford, “Device
analyzer: Understanding smartphone usage,” in Inter-
national Conference on Mobile and Ubiquitous Sys-
tems: Computing, Networking, and Services , pp. 195–
208, Springer, 2013.
[18] D. Chaum, “Security without identiﬁcation: Transaction
systems to make Big Brother obsolete,” Communica-
tions of the ACM , vol. 28, no. 10, pp. 1030–1044, 1985.
[19] S. Dolev and R. Ostrobsky, “Xor-trees for efﬁcient
anonymous multicast and reception,” ACM Transactions
on Information and System Security, vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 63–
84, 2000.
[20] D. I. Wolinsky, H. Corrigan-Gibbs, B. Ford, and A. John-
son, “Dissent in numbers: Making strong anonymity
scale,” in 10th USENIX Symposium on Operating Sys-
tems Design and Implementation , pp. 179–182, 2012.
[21] G. Danezis and A. Serjantov, “Statistical disclosure or
intersection attacks on anonymity systems,” in Interna-
tional Workshop on Information Hiding , pp. 293–308,
Springer, 2004.
3446    30th USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

[22] A. Mislove, G. Oberoi, A. Post, C. Reis, P . Druschel, and
D. S. Wallach, “AP3: Cooperative, decentralized anony-
mous communication,” in 11th ACM SIGOPS European
workshop, p. 30, ACM, 2004.
[23] G. Perng, M. K. Reiter, and C. Wang, “M2: Multicast-
ing mixes for efﬁcient and anonymous communication,”
in 26th IEEE International Conference on Distributed
Computing Systems, pp. 59–59, IEEE, 2006.
[24] D. Lin, M. Sherr, and B. T. Loo, “Scalable and anony-
mous group communication with MTor,” Proceedings
on Privacy Enhancing Technologies , vol. 2016, no. 2,
pp. 22–39, 2016.
[25] S. Roos, M. Beck, and T. Strufe, “Anonymous addresses
for efﬁcient and resilient routing in F2F overlays,” in
35th Annual IEEE International Conference on Com-
puter Communications, pp. 1–9, IEEE, 2016.
[26] S. Roos, M. Beck, and T. Strufe, “V oute-virtual
overlays using tree embeddings,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1601.06119, 2016.
[27] J. V an Den Hooff, D. Lazar, M. Zaharia, and N. Zel-
dovich, “Vuvuzela: Scalable private messaging resistant
to trafﬁc analysis,” in 25th Symposium on Operating
Systems Principles, pp. 137–152, 2015.
[28] S. Angel and S. Setty, “Unobservable communication
over fully untrusted infrastructure,” in 12th USENIX
Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Imple-
mentation, pp. 551–569, 2016.
[29] R. Cheng, W. Scott, E. Masserova, I. Zhang, V . Goyal,
T. Anderson, A. Krishnamurthy, and B. Parno, “Talek:
Private group messaging with hidden access patterns,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.08250, 2020.
[30] R. Jansen and N. Hopper, “Shadow: Running Tor in a
box for accurate and efﬁcient experimentation,” in 19th
Symposium on Network and Distributed System Security,
Internet Society, February 2012.
[31] I. B. Guirat, D. Gosain, and C. Diaz, “Mixim: A gen-
eral purpose simulator for mixnet,” Privacy Enhancing
Technologies Symposium – HotPETs Workshop , 2020.
[32] M. Hosseini, D. T. Ahmed, S. Shirmohammadi, and
N. D. Georganas, “A survey of application-layer multi-
cast protocols,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tuto-
rials, vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 58–74, 2007.
[33] A. Popescu, D. Constantinescu, D. Erman, and D. Ilie,
“A survey of reliable multicast communication,” in Con-
ference on Next Generation Internet Networks , NGI,
pp. 111–118, IEEE, 2007.
[34] C. K. Y eo, B.-S. Lee, and M. H. Er, “A survey of appli-
cation level multicast techniques,” Computer Communi-
cations, vol. 27, no. 15, pp. 1547–1568, 2004.
[35] J. Leitão, J. Pereira, and L. Rodrigues, “Epidemic broad-
cast trees,” in 26th IEEE International Symposium on
Reliable Distributed Systems, SRDS 2007, pp. 301–310,
IEEE, Oct. 2007.
[36] J. Leitão, J. Pereira, and L. Rodrigues, “Gossip-based
broadcast,” in Handbook of Peer-to-Peer Networking,
pp. 831–860, Springer, Oct. 2009.
A MultiSphinx Construction
In this Appendix we provide detailed algorithms for con-
structing and processing both the regular Sphinx messages
(A.1) and our MultiSphinx messages (A.2). The regular con-
struction is based on the original Sphinx paper [11] and the
proposed improvement using authenticated encryption [15].
For both schemes we will use three hops n0, n1, n2 for the mix
nodes and a ﬁnal hop n for the recipient 3 that extracts the
payload from the inner-most encryption (see Figure 10).
A Sphinx header M consists of a group element α for deriv-
ing shared secrets, authenticated data β , and an authentication
tag γ . In the original Sphinx paper β is used to store the ad-
dress of the next hop. For the ﬁnal hop the distinguished
element∗ is used to signal that the payload reached its in-
tended destination. Loopix adds per-hop delays to this routing
information.
We assume that all nodes ni have access to the public keys
of all other nodes without us passing these explicitly. We
assume the existence of a method P ROCESS HEADER that
takes a header of a Sphinx packet and returns all metadata
contained in β (next hop identiﬁer, delay) and the header for
the next hop. We assume the existence of a method C OM-
PUTE SECRETS that takes a list of hops n0, n1, . . .and outputs
3We omit the provider nodes here to improve readability.
REGULAR SPHINX
s n0 n1 n2 n ∗
(M0, δ 0) (M1, δ 1) (M2, δ 2) (M3, δ 3) δ
p-RESTRICTED MULTI SPHINX (p = 2)
s n0 n1
(M0, δ 0) (M1, δ 1)
n2,A nA ∗
(M2,A,δ 2,A)
(M3,A , δ 3,A ) δ A
n2,B nB ∗
(M2,B ,δ2,B )
(M3,B , δ 3,B ) δ B
(M1,A, δ 1,A )
(M1,B, δ 1,B )
Figure 10: Schematic of messages (header, payload) for
Sphinx and MultiSphinx.
USENIX Association 30th USENIX Security Symposium    3447

a list of shared secrets s0, s1, . . .. We assume the existence
of a method C REATE HEADER that takes a shared secret si,
the next hop identiﬁer ni+1, and (optionally) a header Mi+1
to wrap. The details of these operations can be found in the
Sphinx paper [11, §3.2 and §3.6]. In line with Loopix the
sender chooses a random per-hop delay for each hop and in-
cludes it in the authenticated metadata in the header. This
happens transparently in the C REATE HEADER method.
We assume the existence of an authenticated encryption
(AE) scheme as required by the improved Sphinx format [15].
An AE scheme provides an encryption function AE enc that
takes a secret key s, a message msg, and optional metadata
meta and outputs a ciphertext ctext and an authentication
tag auth. It also provides a decryption function AE dec that
takes a secret key s, a ciphertext ctext, an authentication tag
auth, and metadata meta. It returns the decrypted message if
the authentication tag veriﬁes the integrity of ciphertext and
metadata or⊥ otherwise.
We assume that the AE scheme is based on an encrypt-
then-mac regime using a stream cipher C (e.g. AES-CTR),
a message authentication code MAC (e.g. HMAC), and a
keyed key derivation function KDF (e.g. HKDF). Stream
ciphers have the property that changing a given bit of the
ciphertext/plaintext only changes the bit at the same position
in the plaintext/ciphertext after decryption/encryption. Arbi-
trary changes will lead to an invalid auth tag – but we might
intentionally ignore this during our constructions and recal-
culate the auth tags later. Since Sphinx uses fresh secret keys
for every message and hop, we can leave the nonce for the
stream cipher constant. We show our construction of AE enc
and AE dec in Algorithm 3.
Algorithm 3 The authenticated encryption scheme AE based
on stream cipher C, a MAC, and a keyed KDF.
1: procedure AEenc(s, msg, meta)
2: scipher , smac← KDF (s, cipher), KDF (s, mac)
3: ctext← C(scipher )⊕ msg
4: auth← MAC(smac, ctext‖ meta)
5: return (ctext, auth)
6:
7: procedure AEdec(s, ctext, auth, meta)
8: scipher , smac← KDF (s, cipher), KDF (s, mac)
9: if MAC(smac, ctext‖ meta)⁄= auth then
10: return⊥
11: msg← C(scipher )⊕ ctext
12: return msg
A.1 Normal Sphinx (existing solution)
The algorithms in this section summarise the existing liter-
ature [11, 15], but we have adapted the notation to be more
concise. Algorithm 4 shows the creation of the a regular
Sphinx message by the sender. While the original Sphinx pa-
pers can create all headers before encrypting the payload, the
improved variant with AE requires us to do these operations
simultaneously as the encryption affects the authentication
tag γ of this and the following message headers.
Algorithm 4 Creating a packet to be routed through hops
n0, n1, n2 to node n.
1: procedure CREATE (δ , n0, n1, n2, n)
2: assert|δ| = MAXMSGLEN
3: s0, s1, s2, s3← COMPUTE SECRETS (n0, n1, n2, n)
4: M3← CREATE HEADER (s3,∗)
5: δ 3, M3.γ← AEenc(s3, δ , M3.β )
6: M2← CREATE HEADER (s2, n, M3)
7: δ 2, M2.γ← AEenc(s2, δ 3, M2.β )
8: M1← CREATE HEADER (s1, n2, M2)
9: δ 1, M1.γ← AEenc(s1, δ 2, M1.β )
10: M0← CREATE HEADER (s0, n1, M1)
11: δ 0, M0.γ← AEenc(s0, δ 1, M0.β )
12: return (M0, δ 0)
Algorithm 5 shows how a mix node processes a message it
has received. First the message is unpacked into the header
and the payload. Then the tag is derived and compared against
previously seen tags to protect against replay attacks. Af-
terwards, the decryption veriﬁes that the authentication tag
matches the message and header metadata. Finally the header
is unwrapped and a send operation is scheduled according to
the next hop identiﬁer and delay from the metadata.
Algorithm 5 Processing of an incoming packet at mix node
n with secret key xn.
1: procedure PROCESS (packet)
2: (M, δ )← packet
3: s← (M.α )xn
4: if hτ (s)∈ tags then abort
5: tags← tags∪{ hτ (s)}
6: δ′← AE dec(s, δ , M.γ , M.β )
7: if δ′ =⊥ then abort
8: (n′, delay ), M′ = PROCESS HEADER (M)
9: QUEUE FORSEND (n′, (M′, δ′), delay )
A.2 MultiSphinx (our solution)
We now describe our MultiSphinx construction and highlight
the changes relative to the normal Sphinx construction in blue.
To allow for a readable description we describe everything
for p = 2 however the general case follows easily.
We use the pseudo-random function (PRF) ρ together with
its key-generating function hρ from the original Sphinx paper
to create a deterministic pseudo-random padding. Since we
need two derive to independent keys from the same secret,
3448    30th USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

we extend hρ with another parameter that can be an arbitrary
string. This extension can be implemented using any suitable
HKDF function.
Algorithm 6 explains the creation of MultiSphinx mes-
sages by the sender. The part concerning the “two legs” of
the message graph is only shown once for A to allow for a
more readable presentation. Line 21 instructs which lines are
meant to be repeated for the other p− 1 recipients. In line 4
the secret s1 is computed which is required for the padding
construction in line 11. Lines 6-9 encrypt the actual payload
from the recipient nA to the multiplication node n1,A (going
backwards). The encrypted payloads δ 3,A, δ 2,A, δ 1,A are all
smaller than the normal payload length of messages. This
would allow an attacker to distinguish such messages from
other Loopix messages (e.g. when the middle mix layer sends
loop messages). Therefore, the ciphertext is padded in line 11
with our PRF ρ . To correctly compute the MACs and headers
in lines 15-20, we ﬁrst simulate (going forwards) how the
payloads will be affected by the decryption (line 12f).
Algorithm 7 explains the processing step at a mix node.
Regular mix nodes operate as before (line 10). However, at
multiplication nodes incoming message payloads are split
into p headers and p payloads (line 12). In lines 13-16 the
pseudo-random paddings are added. This process is also visu-
alised in Figure 11. The newly created packets are processed
recursively and then scheduled for sending based on their
individual delay (line 15f). This “self-delivery” corresponds
to the loop edge of n1 in Figure 10. The extra hop allows for
delaying both messages independently at the multiplication
node (two headers allow for two delays). It also simpliﬁes our
correctness arguments.
M1 δ 1
|M| MAXMSGLEN
s1 AEdec
⊥(ABORT )
M1,A δ 1,A M1,B δ 1,Bδ combined =
M1,A
 δ 1,A
 ρ A = ρ (hρ (A, s1))
M1,B δ 1,B ρ B = ρ (hρ (B, s)1))
M1,A
 δ 1,A
 ρ A = ρ (hρ (A, s1))
Figure 11: Processing of a MultiSphinx message at the multi-
plication node n1 resulting in two outgoing messages that are
send then re-queued for processing.
Algorithm 6 Creating a MultiSphinx packet to be routed
through hops n0, n1, n2,A, n2,B to nodes nA, nB.
1: procedure CREATE (δ A, δ B, n0, n1, n2,A, n2,B, nA, nB)
2: assert|δ A| =|δ B|= (MAXMSGLEN− HDRLEN)/2
3: ⊲ Secrets for hops from sender to multiplier node n1
4: s0, s1,← COMPUTE SECRETS (n0, n1)
5: ⊲ Encrypt from recipient nA to multiplier node n1
6: s1,A, s2,A, sA← COMPUTE SECRETS (n1,A, n2,A, nA)
7: δ 3,A← C(KDF (sA, cipher))⊕ δ A
8: δ 2,A← C(KDF (s2,A, cipher))⊕ δ 3,A
9: δ 1,A← C(KDF (s1,A, cipher))⊕ δ 2,A
10: ⊲ Add pseudo-random padding and compute padded
payloads δ′
... along decryption path
11: δ′
1,A← δ 1,A‖ ρ (hρ (A, s1))
12: δ′
2,A← Cdec(KDF (s1,A, cipher))⊕ δ′
1,A
13: δ′
3,A← Cdec(KDF (s2,A, cipher))⊕ δ′
2,A
14: ⊲ Compute headers and full MACs
15: M3,A← CREATE HEADER (sA,∗)
16: M3,A.γ← MAC(KDF (sA, mac), δ′
3,A‖ M3.A).β )
17: M2,A← CREATE HEADER (sA, n3,A, M3,A)
18: M2,A.γ← MAC(KDF (s2,A, mac), δ′
2,A‖ M2.A).β )
19: M1,A← CREATE HEADER (sA, n2,A, M2,A)
20: M1,A.γ← MAC(KDF (s1,A, mac), δ′
1,A‖ M1.A).β )
21: Repeat lines 6− 20 for B
22: ⊲ From sender to multiplication node
23: δ combined = M1,A‖ δ 1,A‖ M1,B‖ δ 1,B
24: M1← CREATE HEADER (s1)
25: δ 1, M1.γ← AEenc(s1, δ combined, M1.METADATA ))
26: M0← CREATE HEADER (s0, n1, M1)
27: δ 0, M0.γ← AEenc(s0, δ , M0.METADATA ))
28: return (M0, δ 0)
Algorithm 7 Processing of an incoming packet at mix node
n at mix layer l with secret key xn.
1: procedure PROCESS (packet)
2: (M, δ )← packet
3: s← (M.α )xn
4: if hτ (s)∈ tags then abort
5: tags← tags∪{ hτ (s)}
6: δ′← AEdec(s, δ , M.γ , M.β )
7: if δ′ =⊥ then abort
8: n′, delay, M′ = PROCESS HEADER (M)
9: if l⁄= 1 then
10: QUEUE FORSEND (n′, (M′, δ′), delay )
11: else
12: M1,A, δ 1,A, M1,B, δ 1,B← δ′ ⊲ δ′ = δ combined
13: ρ A, ρ B← ρ (hρ (A, s)), ρ (hρ (B, s)) ⊲ s = s1
14: ⊲ Process separately to allow independent delays
15: PROCESS (M1,A‖ δ 1,A‖ ρ A)
16: PROCESS (M1,B‖ δ 1,B‖ ρ B)
USENIX Association 30th USENIX Security Symposium    3449

B Algorithms
Algorithm 8 The fault-tolerant Rollercoaster callback handler
and send methods (signatures are checked implicitly).
1: procedure SEND TOGROUP (groupid , payload )
2: S← GENSCHEDULE (msg.source, msg.groupid )
3: for recipient∈{ direct children of self in S} do
4: msg← NEWMESSAGE ()
5: msg.groupid← groupid
6: msg.nonce← FRESH NONCE ()
7: msg.{source, sender, role}← self
8: msg.payload← payload
9: SCHEDULE FORSEND (recipient , msg)
10:
11: procedure ONPAYLOAD (msg)
12: APPLICATION HANDLE (msg.payload )
13: if msg was received while ofﬂine then return
14: if msg was not seen before then
15: S← GENSCHEDULE (msg.source, msg.groupid )
16: for x∈{ direct children of msg.role in S} do
17: msg′← COPY MESSAGE (msg)
18: msg′.sender← self
19: msg′.role← x
20: SCHEDULE FORSEND (x, msg′)
21: SCHEDULE FORSEND (msg.source, GENACK(msg))
22:
23: procedure ONACK(msg)
24: assert (msg.source = self)
25: CANCEL TIMEOUT (msg, msg.role, msg.sender)
26:
27: ⊲ Called when a message leaves the payload queue
28: procedure ONMESSAGE ISSENT (msg)
29: S← GENSCHEDULE (msg.source, msg.groupid )
30: for x∈{ recursive children of msg.role in S} do
31: timeout← ESTIMATE TIMEOUT (S, x)
32: ADDTIMEOUT (msg, x,timeout )
33:
34: procedure ONTIMEOUT (msg, recipient f ailed)
35: S← GENSCHEDULE (msg.source, msg.groupid )
36: if not ISFORWARDING NODE (S, msg.role) then
37: return
38: for x∈{ recursive children of msg.role in S} do
39: CANCEL TIMEOUT (msg, msg.role, msg.sender)
40: ⊲ timeout will be recreated when re-try is sent
41: recipient′← NEXT RECIPIENT (S, recipient f ailed)
42: SCHEDULE FORSEND (recipient′, msg)
43: msg.role← ∅ ⊲ Re-try to failed node w/o role
44: SCHEDULE WITH EXPBACKOFF (recipient f ailed, msg)
Algorithm 9 Methods explaining how the timeout informa-
tion is stored and updated.
1: procedure ONINIT
2: self.sessions = [·] ⊲ missing keys default to {}
3:
4: procedure ADDTIMEOUT (msg, role, recipient, timeout)
5: CANCEL TIMEOUT (msg, role, recipient)
6: id← (msg.groupid , msg.nonce)
7: entry← (role, recipient,timeout )
8: self.sessions[id]← self.sessions[id]∪{ entry}
9:
10: procedure CANCEL TIMEOUT (msg, role, recipient)
11: id← (msg.groupid , msg.nonce)
12: session = self.sessions[id]
13: self.sessions[id]←{ x∈ self.sessions[id]| x.role⁄=
role∧ x.recipient⁄= recipient}
Algorithm 10 Determines whether node node is a forwarding
node with regards to schedule S.
1: procedure ISFORWARDING NODE (S, node)
2: source← S[0][0][0]
3: if node = source then
4: return false
5: for t = 1 until|S| do
6: R← S[t]
7: for (sender, _) in R do
8: if node⁄= source and node = sender then
9: return true
10: return false
C Extended Paper
The extended paper is available at: https://www.cl.
cam.ac.uk/techreports/UCAM-CL-TR-957.html . Its ad-
ditional appendices contain: a proof for eventual delivery of
Rollercoaster, a security proof for MultiSphinx, visualisations
of the ofﬂine models, histogram plots of latency distributions,
and additional heatmap ﬁgures. The main text of the extended
paper only differs from this paper where it references these
additional pieces of information.
3450    30th USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association