Related papers at https://gipplab.org/pub
Preprint of the paper: Ihle, C. & Trautwein, D. & Schubotz, M. & Meuschke, N. & Gipp, B., "Incentive
Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review", ACM Computing Surveys,
Jan. 2023, DOI: 10.1145/3578581.
Click to download: BibTeX
Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A
Systematic Literature Review
CORNELIUS IHLE, University of Göttingen, Germany
DENNIS TRAUTWEIN, University of Göttingen, Germany
MORITZ SCHUBOTZ, FIZ-Karlsruhe–Leibniz Institute for Information Infrastructure, Germany
NORMAN MEUSCHKE, University of Göttingen, Germany
BELA GIPP, University of Göttingen, Germany
Centralized networks inevitably exhibit single points of failure that malicious actors regularly target. Decen-
tralized networks are more resilient if numerous participants contribute to the network’s functionality. Most
decentralized networks employ incentive mechanisms to coordinate the participation and cooperation of peers
and thereby ensure the functionality and security of the network. This article systematically reviews incentive
mechanisms for decentralized networks and networked systems by covering 165 prior literature reviews
and 178 primary research papers published between 1993 and October 2022. Of the considered sources, we
analyze eleven literature reviews and 105 primary research papers in detail by categorizing and comparing the
distinctive properties of the presented incentive mechanisms. The reviewed incentive mechanisms establish
fairness and reward participation and cooperative behavior. We review work that substitutes central authority
through independent and subjective mechanisms run in isolation at each participating peer and work that
applies multiparty computation. We use monetary, reputation, and service rewards as categories to differenti-
ate the implementations and evaluate each incentive mechanism’s data management, attack resistance, and
contribution model. Further, we highlight research gaps and deficiencies in reproducibility and comparability.
Finally, we summarize our assessments and provide recommendations to apply incentive mechanisms to
decentralized networks that share computational resources.
CCS Concepts: • Networks → Peer-to-peer networks; Mobile ad hoc networks; • Computer systems
organization → Fault-tolerant network topologies; • Information systems → Reputation systems; Digital
cash; • Computing methodologies → Self-organization.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: peer-to-peer, incentive mechanism, reputation, credit, monetary incentives,
service incentives, tit-for-tat, p2p
ACM Reference Format:
Cornelius Ihle, Dennis Trautwein, Moritz Schubotz, Norman Meuschke, and Bela Gipp. 2023. Incentive Mecha-
nisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review. ACM Comput. Surv. 56, 1 (January 2023),
71 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3578581
Authors’ addresses: Cornelius Ihle, ihle@gipplab.org, University of Göttingen, Papendiek 14, 37073 Göttingen, Lower Saxony,
Germany; Dennis Trautwein, trautwein@gipplab.org, University of Göttingen, Papendiek 14, 37073 Göttingen, Lower
Saxony, Germany; Moritz Schubotz, moritz.schubotz@fiz-karlsruhe.de, FIZ-Karlsruhe–Leibniz Institute for Information
Infrastructure, Franklinstr. 11, Berlin, Berlin, Germany; Norman Meuschke, meuschke@uni-goettingen.de, University of
Göttingen, Papendiek 14, 37073 Göttingen, Lower Saxony, Germany; Bela Gipp, gipp@uni-goettingen.de, University of
Göttingen, Papendiek 14, 37073 Göttingen, Lower Saxony, Germany.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

2 Ihle et al.
1 INTRODUCTION
Today’s internet is increasingly centralized, although decentralized systems promise better avail-
ability and resiliency at lower costs. Currently, most websites, web services, and applications rely
on major service providers like Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform.
Self-hosting becomes progressively infrequent1. The flexibility and scalability that cloud hosting
offers often come at the cost of a single point of failure, i.e., the service provider. Disruptions at major
service providers have rendered large portions of the internet unavailable in the past2,3,4 . Moreover,
the provision of production-grade cloud services is costly. On average, users pay 0.0000108 USD to
store 1 GB for a year on decentralized storage5, which is less than 0.01% of Amazon’s S3 pricing.
Netflix’s video streaming service incurs monthly cloud computing costs of approximately ten
million dollars6. Consequently, Netflix is currently evaluating the Interplanetary File System (IPFS)
as a decentralized content delivery network7.
A computer network’s degree of decentralization reflects the share of the network’s nodes
with redundant capabilities. Peer-to-peer (P2P) communication, i.e., nodes communicating directly
instead of via a central server, enables but does not imply decentralization of the network. If all nodes
hold different data or provide different functionality—thus do not offer redundant capabilities—the
network is distributed but not decentralized and can exhibit a single point of failure. A distributed
system consists of autonomous computing components interacting for a common purpose while
residing on various networked computers, but appearing to users as a coherent system [114]. In a
decentralized P2P network, nodes communicate directly, can act as service providers and requestors,
leave or fail without stopping the service, and have similar privileges [106].
A key challenge in designing and operating decentralized networks is ensuring the cooperation
and contribution of peers. Otherwise, the load accumulates in a subset of the nodes, which leads
to some degree of centralization and higher costs for high-load nodes. Typically, not all nodes
contribute or, worse, attempt to game the system to their advantage. P2P networks are often open for
everyone to participate, do not require permissions, and keep the network’s data and communication
public. Especially, these open, decentralized networks suffer from selfish behavior and denial-of-
service attacks by participants trying to game the system8. Permissioned or private networks are
less prone to suffer from selfish behavior, as they grant access to trustworthy participants, only.
Most public P2P networks implement incentive mechanisms as an integral architectural compo-
nent to keep the network functional, decentralized, and secure. Incentive mechanisms motivate
cooperation and participation, i.e., new participants joining the network, by superseding the partic-
ipants’ intrinsic self-interests via extrinsic pressure, i.e., punitive disincentives or rewards. In this
review, we use the term incentive mechanism for both punitive and rewarding mechanisms.
Decentralized P2P systems require all subsystems, i.e., also their incentive mechanisms, to be
decentralized. In the past, however, incentive mechanisms required a central authority to oversee
participant behavior. Now, decentralized computation allows a P2P network to jointly maintain
and use a single source of truth instead of a central authority. Smart contracts [129] combined with
distributed ledgers are a recent form of decentralized computation that offers a trustless, more
resilient, and transparent alternative to central authorities.
1https://www.canalys.com/newsroom/global-cloud-market-Q121
2https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/technology/cloudflare-service-outage-disrupts-internet-fix-in-place/ar-BB16SQ44
3https://cnn.com/2020/12/14/tech/google-youtube-gmail-down/index.html
4https://tcrn.ch/2V1gvyL
5https://file.app
6https://www.intricately.com/articles/netflix-aws-spend
7https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wNfk05D887M&t
8https://www.coindesk.com/ethereum-classic-suffers-second-51-attack-in-a-week
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 3
Our literature review supports the research and development of decentralized P2P systems by
systematically analyzing the options for devising decentralized incentive mechanisms. To the best
of our knowledge, our review is the first to compare incentive mechanisms using a framework
that includes incentive type, network type, data management, attack resistance, and contribution
model as properties. We analyze three incentive categories (monetary, reputation, and service)
for the network types Opportunistic Networks (OppNets), Mobile Ad-Hoc Networks (MANETs),
Delay-Tolerant Networks (DTNs), Mobile Social Networks (MSNs), Multi-Cell Cooperation (MCC),
Mobile Edge Computing (MEC) and general P2P networks. These network types are not exhaustive,
but allow the reader to select incentive mechanisms for their preferred network type. Supplement
A.2 explains how the proposed framework, properties, incentive categories, and network types
enable readers to retrieve articles relevant to a specific use case from this article.
We conduct an aggregative, structured literature review of 178 primary research publications
and 165 prior literature reviews. Paré and Kitsiou characterize a systematic review as an attempt to
aggregate, appraise, and synthesize results that meet a set of specified eligibility criteria to answer a
clearly formulated and often narrow research question [98]. In our case, we aggregate the primary
research on decentralized incentive mechanisms and appraise their design aspects according to
their data management, attack resistance, and contribution model. We synthesize a framework
that enables comparability of the design aspects to deduce the applicability of selected incentive
mechanisms to an example use case. Of the 178 primary research articles, 107 matched our selection
criteria (cf. Supplement A.5). We present 105 articles in this review, as we could not retrieve the
full text of two articles. Of the 165 prior literature reviews, we select and present 11 representative
reviews. Additionally, we give an overview of network types, evaluation and simulation tools, and
the features of Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT).
This approach allows us to address the following three research questions:
(1) What are the distinguishing characteristics of decentralized incentive mechanisms regarding
network types, data management approach, attack resistance, and contribution model?
(2) What are the research trends and open research questions in the literature?
(3) How to select an incentive mechanism for a specific decentralized use case?
Our review gives a comprehensive overview of decentralized incentive mechanisms and presents
a framework that supports researchers and developers in selecting and implementing an incentive
mechanism for a specific decentralized use case. We showcase how to apply the framework for
an exemplary academic use case. Further, we analyze simulation and evaluation tools to make
recommendations for future research on decentralized incentive mechanisms.
Our systematic literature review extends existing reviews (cf. Table 1) by:
- Including significantly more publications than the other reviews.
- Being the first systematic review on the topic.
- Introducing a framework to describe and categorize incentive mechanisms.
The article is structured as follows. Section 2 describes our stringent methodology for identifying
prior literature reviews and primary research publications, which helps to achieve transparency and
reproducibility of the review steps. Moreover, the section summarizes related reviews to highlight
the contributions of our article. Section 3 discusses common design aspects and features we derived
from prior literature reviews. Section 4 summarizes and classifies primary research publications
according to the incentive characteristics we identify. Section 5 showcases the use of the framework
we derive for selecting an incentive mechanism for a specific use case. Section 6 discusses simulation
tools. Section 7 gives recommendations regarding the applicability of incentive types and outlines
promising directions for future research before concluding the review in Section 8.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

4 Ihle et al.
2 METHODOLOGY
This section presents our three-step process for finding and selecting relevant literature. First, we
choose a suitable search engine with a comprehensive underlying literature database. Second, we
iteratively define search terms to find previously published literature reviews. Third, we extract
topic keywords from taxonomy papers and use them to find the relevant primary sources we review.
2.1 Search Engine Selection
Guidelines for conducting systematic literature reviews recurrently name three quality criteria
for the search step: completeness, transparency, and reproducibility [34]. Completeness and re-
producibility primarily depend on the search engine used, while the process for compiling the
review determines transparency. Consequently, choosing a database that covers most research in
the respective field (completeness) and allows repeating the searches undertaken for the review
(reproducibility) is of paramount importance. We use a keyword-based automated search [102]
to collate the research publications for our review and state the time at which we executed each
search to improve the reproducibility of our search process. The natural growth of the database
will likely lead to different result sets when repeating our searches. Knowing the search time can
help to filter for items added to the database after we conducted our search.
We considered using the Digital Bibliography & Library Project (DBLP), Web of Science (WoS),
and Google Scholar for our systematic searches. Contrary to the findings in [34] the DBLP search
engine claims to support Boolean operators9. However, in our tests, disjunctive queries returned
fewer results than the corresponding conjunctive queries. For example, a search for incentive
review (treated as a conjunctive query) yielded 19 results, while searching for incentive
review | state-of-the-art returned two results (search performed on Nov. 26, 2020).
Adding parentheses around state-of-the-art to clarify our intention to the search system
did not change the results. Fagan observed similar illogical interpretations of Boolean operators for
Google Scholar [27]. Moreover, Google Scholar is frequently criticized for over-emphasizing citation
count [27] to rank results and including results from predatory journals [8] and gray literature.
We eventually chose WoS because it was the only search system among the three we considered
that yielded reproducible results and sensible outputs when using Boolean search operators. The
Core Collection subscription of WoS includes six databases and 1.7 billion bibliographic references10.
We are confident that a keyword-based automated search in this major literature database yields
an accurate approximation of the research undertaken in the relevant field.
2.2 Retrieval of Secondary Literature
This section presents our process for retrieving relevant secondary literature, i.e., publications that
summarize and synthesize primary literature, defining search terms, and filtering search results.
Search Term Definition. We initiated our literature search by using the naive query:
incentive mechanism
As WoS supports stemming11, we can use the root of keywords without explicitly stating plurals
or derived forms. WoS searches keywords in the title, abstract, author keywords, and “Keywords
Plus”12 of academic literature included in the WoS Core Collection database without restrictions
9https://dblp.org/faq/How+to+use+the+dblp+search.html - accessed Nov. 11, 2020
10https://clarivate.com/webofsciencegroup/solutions/webofscience-platform/ - accessed Dec. 11, 2020
11https://images.webofknowledge.com/images/help/WOS/hs_topic.html - accessed Oct. 3, 2022
12KeyWords Plus are unique to WoS and consist of words and phrases harvested from the titles of the cited articles.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 5
regarding the publication date. This initial search retrieved 16, 616 results in 228 WoS categories.
This large number of results led us to limit the result set through category selection.
Research Field Selection. To exclude literature insignificant to our research question, we pruned
search categories covering non-digital incentives that cannot be adapted to P2P networks, e.g.,
Human Resource Management literature. We retained the following computer-science-related WoS
categories and the 6, 222 results they contained:
MULTIDISCIPLINARY SCIENCES,
COMPUTER SCIENCE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE,
COMPUTER SCIENCE CYBERNETICS,
COMPUTER SCIENCE HARDWARE ARCHITECTURE,
COMPUTER SCIENCE INFORMATION SYSTEMS,
COMPUTER SCIENCE INTERDISCIPLINARY
APPLICATIONS,
COMPUTER SCIENCE SOFTWARE ENGINEERING,
COMPUTER SCIENCE THEORY METHODS,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS,
MEDICAL INFORMATICS,
ECONOMICS,
ENGINEERING ELECTRICAL ELECTRONIC
“ECONOMICS” (3, 127 results) and “ENGINEERING ELECTRICAL ELECTRONIC ” (1, 304 results)
were the largest categories we excluded. As articles can belong to multiple categories, the reduction
of articles in the final corpus can be smaller than the sum of the article counts in each category.
The Web of Science category structure has remained persistent since 201213. Adapting the search
query to reproduce our findings can become necessary if fields change in the future. We extended
our search query by using WoS search syntax like “Topic Search (TS)” which stands for topic search
and analyzes title, abstract, author keywords and “Keywords Plus”, as well as “Web of Science
Category (WC)” which represents the WoS category to search in.
Search Term Refinement. We read a sample of the retrieved papers and collected the author-
assigned keywords of papers we deemed relevant to our research question. We used these keywords
to extend the search query with the synonyms “cooperation” for “incentive” and “scheme, protocol”
for “mechanism”. The extended search query increased the number of retrieved papers to 9, 308.
Identification of Secondary Literature: In this step, we extended our search query to filter for
literature reviews and surveys. Furthermore, we dissected the topic selector “TS” into its parts
“Abstract (AB)”, “Author Keywords (AK)”, “KeyWords Plus (KP)” and “Title (TI)” to enable more
fine-grained control. The resulting search query was:
TI=(survey OR review OR "state-of-the-art")
AND (
AB=((incentive OR cooperation) AND (scheme OR protocol OR mechanism)) OR
AK=((incentive OR cooperation) AND (scheme OR protocol OR mechanism)) OR
KP=((incentive OR cooperation) AND (scheme OR protocol OR mechanism)) OR
TI=((incentive OR cooperation) AND (scheme OR protocol OR mechanism))
) AND WC=("MULTIDISCIPLINARY SCIENCES"
OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE" OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE CYBERNETICS"
OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE HARDWARE ARCHITECTURE" OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE INFORMATION SYSTEMS"
OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE INTERDISCIPLINARY APPLICATIONS" OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE SOFTWARE
ENGINEERING"
OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE THEORY METHODS" OR "TELECOMMUNICATIONS" OR "MEDICAL INFORMATICS"
)
Our search on Oct. 3, 2022, retrieved 165 secondary literature results.
Filtering of Literature Reviews: We pruned the 165 reviews that matched our query as follows. We
excluded reviews that either (1) do not discuss incentive mechanisms, (2) do not consider sharing
computational resources or bandwidth, or (3) present a centralized system. From the remaining
reviews, we removed those that examine incentive mechanisms only peripherally or as a secondary
contribution. These exclusions reduced the number of reviews to eleven.
13http://help.prod-incites.com/inCites2Live/filterValuesGroup/researchAreaSchema/oecdCategoryScheme/version/2
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

6 Ihle et al.
Table 1. Prior literature reviews relevant to our research question.
Ref. Authors Year Review Type Papers Reputation Monetary Network
[67] Li et al. 2022 Aggregative 4 YES NO Federated Learning (FL)
[58] Khan et al. 2021 Aggregative 17 YES NO ad-hoc
[125] Wei and Yu 2021 Aggregative 33 YES NO Wireless Sensor Network (WSN)
[108] Sharghivand et al. 2021 Aggregative 51 NO YES Cloud
[77] Mantas et al. 2017 Aggregative 13 YES NO OppNet
[43] Hua et al. 2017 Aggregative 22 YES YES MANET
[110] Silva et al. 2017 Scoping 24 YES YES MANET/DTN
[36] Haddi and B. 2015 Scoping 18 YES YES (mobile) P2P
[104] Samian et al. 2015 Scoping 32 YES YES MANET
[11] Ben Saied et al. 2014 Scoping 56 YES YES DTN
[79] Marias et al. 2006 Aggregative 9 YES YES DTN
Ihle et al. 2022 Aggregative 116 YES YES P2P
Identification of Incentive Categories We created an overview table (A.5) of the properties covered
in secondary literature by picking reviews that include a results table and extracting all properties
from these tables. We condensed the 286 properties extracted in this manner to 13 design aspects
(see Section 3), which we use to characterize incentive mechanisms. We identified the incentive
mechanism types “monetary rewards”, “reputation systems”, and “service rewards”. Considering
service rewards as a mechanism type is a notable difference between our review compared to
previous reviews that predominantly consider only the former two mechanism types.
2.3 Overview of Prior Literature Reviews
Table 1 lists the eleven literature reviews that remained after manually excluding articles as described
in Section 2.2. The literature reviews are ordered reverse chronologically and categorized by the
incentive and network schemes they cover.
Li et al. [67] reviewed monetary incentives applied to consensus mechanisms for securing a
blockchain-based FL network. In federated learning, distributed peers jointly maintain and update
a global model, which resides on a central server within the architecture proposed in the article.
This design contradicts a pure P2P architecture and makes the use of blockchain questionable, as
the central server might also maintain the ledger for monetary incentives. Nonetheless, we include
this review, as the monetary incentives could also be applied to a fully decentralized architecture.
Khan et al. [58] surveyed incentive mechanism publications that analyzed selfish nodes in ad-hoc
networks. The authors categorized prevention schemes into detection mechanisms, trust-based
mechanisms, reputation-based incentive mechanisms, credit-based incentive mechanisms, and
evolutionary game-theoretical approaches. Additionally, they provided simulation results that
measure the effectiveness of selected incentive mechanisms to prevent selfish node behavior.
Wei and Yu [125] investigated reputation-based incentives for WSN by analyzing which functional
components of binominal reputation the incentives apply. The functional components the authors
analyzed include direct/indirect reputation, reputation aging, energy reputation, communication
reputation, data reputation, reputation redemption, penalty & reward consideration, computational
complexity, adaptive reputation threshold, adaptive forgetting factor, and energy consideration.
Beyond the detailed analysis of reputation components, the paper gave insight into security issues
and attacks in reputation-based incentives.
Sharghivand et al. [108] reviewed auction mechanisms for cloud and edge computing. Auction
mechanisms serve to connect users with cloud providers through an auctioneer. Although the
paper did not discuss the compatibility of the auctions with decentralized networks, we still analyze
this review for its insights into auction-based mechanisms.
Mantas et al. [77] studied 13 representative reputation-based cooperation enforcement schemes
in OppNets. The authors dissected the core components of reputation mechanisms and discussed
aspects and issues that should be considered when designing such a system. The authors justified,
what they call, a “softer” security approach by stating traditional cryptographic techniques are
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 7
“complex and resource intensive”[77, p. 9]. The authors focused solely on reputation-based systems
and did not discuss studies on other types of cooperation enforcement schemes.
Hua et al. [43] discussed node cooperation and its challenges in Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks
(VANETs) mobile social networking. The article provided a granular categorization and evaluation of
incentives for mobile social networking-based cooperation. The intermittent network connectivity
makes routing issues the main research focus for VANETs. However, the authors stressed that
node cooperation is the foundation for any routing protocol. Hence, addressing cooperation as
an independent problem with a balanced and effective incentive mechanism will benefit routing
protocols and other cooperation-dependent peer-to-peer use cases.
Silva et al. [110] focused on cooperation approaches in resource-constrained MANETs and
DTNs with low node density. The authors reviewed 24 proposals and discussed concomitant
challenges while also considering game-theoretical approaches. A table compares the conceptual
characteristics, main goals, and key aspects of these approaches.
Haddi and Benchaïba [36] provided a representative overview of peer-to-peer incentive mecha-
nisms to stimulate collaboration. They stated that an incentives mechanism’s goal is to improve the
quality and availability of a service. An incentive mechanism can prevent, detect, and punish selfish
and malicious behavior or reward positive behavior for achieving this goal. Beyond these two
core incentive roles, they proposed a role to compensate for service costs, manage access, reduce
the risk of interacting with non-collaborative entities, and enforce sanctions on non-collaborative
entities. The review briefly discussed each incentive mechanism to present its specific require-
ments by distinguishing between static mobile peer-to-peer mechanisms and mechanisms generally
applicable to all network types. Static peer-to-peer mechanisms have a stable network topology,
bandwidth, and energy supply. In contrast, mobile peer-to-peer mechanisms must consider energy
limitations, variable bandwidth, and changing communication routes. The authors further distin-
guished reciprocity-based and reputation-based incentive schemes. We argue that reciprocity is
a kind of reputation value aggregating in the local agent. A more thorough discussion of these
differences can be found in Section 3.1.2.
Samian et al. [104] analyzed incentive mechanisms and their behavior monitoring techniques for
the use case of motivating full cooperation between nodes in wireless multi-hop networks. They
mainly addressed node selfishness and the inability to obtain accurate node behavior data and used
credit payment, reputation, and hybrid schemes as incentive categories. The authors differenti-
ated misbehavior observation and detection techniques as passive and active acknowledgment,
specification-based monitoring, and game-theoretical approaches.
Ben Saied et al. [11] gave an overview of collaborative services in wireless communication
networks. They elaborated on attack vectors against approaches and discussed mitigation tactics.
They distinguished between security-by-design and trust-based mechanisms. In the context of this
paper, security-by-design complements incentive mechanisms by introducing technical hurdles
to prevent misbehavior. In contrast, trust-based mechanisms concern behavior that cannot be
controlled technically but is motivated through punishment and rewards instead.
Marias et al. [79, p. 1] discussed the “most important cooperation enforcement methods” in
MANETs as of 2006. They listed reported attacks on the network and proposed mitigation measures.
Similar to other papers, they discussed and compared cooperation enforcement methods in the two
categories of reputation-based and credit-based models. Other articles usually use the term incentive
mechanism rather than cooperation enforcement methods. We also prefer the term incentive
mechanism to underline that no enforced guarantees exist. Marias et al. emphasized identity
spoofing as an important open issue. By now, however, identity spoofing is typically mitigated using
public-key encryption or message authentication codes. Regarding the comparability of different
schemes, they highlighted the lack of a standard for simulation parameters and configurations.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

8 Ihle et al.
This simulation disparity has led to varying results and differing assumptions. These observations
led us to emphasize the implementation and evaluation of an incentive mechanism in our review.
In summary, the presented reviews largely focused on mobile networks that exhibit more
restrictive constraints regarding resource availability and network connectivity than static networks.
Due to their inherent mobile setup, opportunistic networks like MANETs/VANETs suffer from
intermittent connectivity and stark resource constraints. In contrast, blockchain-based peer-to-peer
networks are typically sustained by better-connected, more capable peers and are not subject to
frequent network topology changes.
2.4 Search Method Anomalies
Ad-hoc networks are overrepresented in the prior literature reviews relevant to our research
question (cf. Section 2.3). Surprisingly, none of the reviews has analyzed DLT/blockchain incentives,
which has motivated us to contribute a review that includes incentive mechanisms in DLT networks.
We attribute the lack of DLT-related reviews to the dominance of grey literature in blockchain
research. Fast-moving projects often forgo traditional academic publishing to benefit from their
first-mover advantage. This situation is changing, as many established DLT projects become part
of the academic community and publish in journals and conferences now.
We complemented our WoS search with a search on Google Scholar to check for blockchain-
related grey literature. The lack of fine-grained search parameters in Google Scholar forced us to
use the broad search term: incentive mechanism (survey OR review OR "state-of-the-art")
Within the first 100 Google Scholar results, we found nine blockchain-related articles our prior
WoS search did not retrieve. This finding indicates that not only the field-specific prevalence of gray
literature but also the quality-focused curation process of WoS contribute to the underrepresentation
of blockchain literature in our results. We decided to favor the quality-focused, curated results of
Web of Science and do not include the additional Google Scholar results in our review.
2.5 Retrieval of Primary Literature
Analyzing prior literature reviews on peer-to-peer incentive mechanisms enabled us to formulate
a search term for the primary literature search of our review. Hereafter, we explain the chosen
search term and present the number of publications retrieved.
Search Term Definition. We required that articles contain the words incentive or cooperation in
their titles. Moreover, the abstracts must contain the wordsdecentralized, peer-to-peer, or P2P in any
combination with the words scheme, protocol, mechanism, or system. The requirements reflect our
findings from analyzing the secondary literature that these terms are often used synonymously. We
verified that Web of Science also retrieved papers that use the British English variant decentralised.
Lastly, an article’s Web of Science category had to match one of the categories identified in Section
2.2. The following listing shows the final search term:
TI=(incentive or cooperation)
AND (
AB=((decentralized or peer-to-peer or P2P) and (scheme or protocol or mechanism or system))
) AND WC=("MULTIDISCIPLINARY SCIENCES"
OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE" OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE CYBERNETICS"
OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE HARDWARE ARCHITECTURE" OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE INFORMATION SYSTEMS"
OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE INTERDISCIPLINARY APPLICATIONS" OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE SOFTWARE
ENGINEERING"
OR "COMPUTER SCIENCE THEORY METHODS" OR "TELECOMMUNICATIONS" OR "MEDICAL INFORMATICS"
)
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 9
The results comprise 178 publications, mostly from the fields “TELECOMMUNICATIONS”, and
“COMPUTER SCIENCE INFORMATION SYSTEMS”. The analysis of prior literature reviews on
incentive mechanisms improved the precision of our result set significantly. In Supplement A.5,
we list the selection criteria for publications included in the review. We discuss primary research
publications that matched all criteria in Section 4 and summarize each of them in Supplement A.4.
Figure 1 shows a histogram of the number of papers we found for the search term grouped by the
publication year. The rising popularity of peer-to-peer networks and their mainstream adoption
since the beginning of the 21st century is visible in the histogram. Famous implementations like
the BitTorrent and Napster networks contributed to this trend.
Fig. 1. Histogram showing the number of papers retrieved for our search term grouped by publication year.
3 REVIEW OF THE SECONDARY LITERATURE
This section presents the findings from analyzing related literature reviews on distributed peer-
to-peer incentive mechanisms, whose retrieval we describe in Section 2.2. The key result of this
review step is the derivation of a framework consisting of the types of incentive mechanisms and
their distinguishing features, which we refer to as design aspects.
The examined literature reviews generally classify cooperation-enforcing incentive mechanisms
into trust-establishing reputation systems or monetary schemes. We extend this classification with a
third incentive type—service incentives—to cover mechanisms that reward instant privileged access
to resources. We found the reward type (Section 3.1), attack resistance (Section 3.2), data manage-
ment approach (Section 3.3), and contribution model (Section 3.4) to be the most important design
aspects of incentive mechanisms. The next sections present the use-case-specific requirements,
advantages, and disadvantages that govern the design decisions regarding these aspects.
Our framework enables readers to retrieve relevant publications included in this review by
structuring their use case requirements according to the dimensions of the framework. Figure 4 in
Section 5 shows a decision tree for picking an incentive type for a specific use case and scoping the
research publications relevant to this incentive type and use case from this review.
3.1 Reward Type
Incentive mechanisms can be classified by the type of reward that is distributed to the network
participants. Note that we consider punishments, also referred to as de-incentives in the literature,
as incentives with a negative reward or payout. We definepayout in line with game theory research
as a quantifiable consequence rather than a monetary unit.
We identified monetary-like credits, reputation value, and access to services as the dominant
reward types. They affect the user’s ability to transfer, preserve, and accumulate rewards of incentive
mechanisms. The three types imply that participants behave rationally, i.e., want to maximize the
reward tailored to the network’s goals. However, there are also subjective, intrinsic motivators
for participation, such as altruism or idealism. Although these intrinsic motivators have positive
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

10 Ihle et al.
effects on P2P network participation, they are hard to control as they entail neither an assessable
payoff nor controllable metrics. Intrinsic motivators are thus unsuitable for designing an incentive
mechanism which is why we exclude them from consideration in this article.
3.1.1 Monetary. A monetary incentive mechanism motivates participants to either participate in
the network or behave in the network’s best interest by distributing monetary credits, e.g., digital
currency, for actions that work towards the network’s goals. According to Berentsen and Schär [12],
the monetary unit should be durable, transferable, divisible, homogenous, verifiable, stable, and
rare to fulfill the functions of being an exchange medium, an arithmetic unit, and a storage of value .
These properties cause inherent advantages and disadvantages of monetary rewards. For example,
the transferability of the monetary unit enables moving value from one participant to another. This
ability makes the reward independent of an identity, which is impossible for a reputation value. On
the other hand, a monetary reward poses the challenge of double-spending as a digital token can
be copied and distributed to multiple peers simultaneously. Therefore, many monetary incentive
mechanisms rely on a central broker to manage the accounting. While a central broker enables a
comparably fast transaction time, it constitutes a single point of failure that, when compromised or
malfunctioning, can have immensely negative effects on the network.
DLT [90, 129] can solve the centralization and double-spending issues. However, the omnipres-
ence of cryptographic schemes in every interaction entails a resource-intensive overhead that
may not be acceptable for certain use cases. Distributed ledgers like blockchains mainly use P2P
monetary incentives to achieve participation and cooperation andconsensus mechanisms to establish
a robust trust model by introducing randomness in block creation and maintaining a single source
of truth [140]. A new block represents a new computational state that introduces new data and
transactions. Therefore, a consensus mechanism is critical for the attack resistance of incentives. A
flawed consensus with a predictable outcome could lead to bribes and collusion attacks.
The most prominent consensus mechanism is Proof-of-Work (PoW) [90], in which peers compete
to solve a complex mathematical puzzle to gain the right to create a new block. The probability to
solve the puzzle is proportional to the utilized computational power (hash rate). If a peer, or group
of peers, holds more than 50% of the computational power in the network, the unpredictability
of who proposes the next block gets compromised, which weakens attack resistance. As the
incentive mechanism rewards block-creating peers (miners), PoW networks tend to spend much
computational power and energy to ensure attack resistance. In contrast, Proof-of-Stake (PoS)
consensus mechanisms use a distributed randomness source (e.g., Randao14) and a deposited value
(stake) to select the block-producing peer. Substantial penalties shall prevent 51% attacks (slashing15),
but colluding peers (>50%) could exploit the reinforcement cycle to inflate their stake inescapably.
Many other consensus mechanisms exist to solve the trust problems in DLT, e.g., Delegated Proof-
of-Stake (DPoS), Proof of Elapsed Time (PoET), Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (PBFT), Proof of
Burn (PoB), and others16. Consensus mechanisms are not to be confused with incentive mechanisms,
although the two often depend on each other to secure a DLT-based network.
Several schemes for distributing monetary units and determining the pricing of rewards exist.
Auctions and deterministic monetary schemes are widespread variants to calculate the reward.
Auction. An auction is an established process to buy or sell commodities and services; it includes
(1) an asset or service, (2) a bidder with interest in such, (3) a seller to provide it, (4) an auctioneer
who manages the auction, (5) a private or public valuation subjective to each buyer or seller, and
14https://github.com/randao/randao
15https://ethereum.org/en/staking/
16https://101blockchains.com/consensus-algorithms-blockchain/
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 11
(6) a price proposed by the bidder that has to surpass the seller’s ask. To manage an auction, the
auctioneer has to choose a suitable auction type [138]. Table 2 describes the prevalent auction
types. Auctions resolve discrepancies between prices and the valuation of the provided resources by
constantly adjusting the price depending on the asks and bids. Hence, employing auctions increases
the likelihood of achieving fair pricing.
Table 2. Popular auction types.
Auction Type Description
English An auction that maximizes the seller’s revenue by increasing the price until no bidder is willing to bid higher.
Dutch An auction that reduces the price until one or more bidders accept it, typically used for commodities that lose value over time.
Anglo-Dutch An Anglo-Dutch auction starts as an English auction but switches to a Dutch auction as soon as only two bidders remain. The
bidder who drops out last determines the lower price limit.
k-th Sealed-bid A k-th Sealed-bid allows the highest bidder to pay the price of the k-th highest bidder.
VCG In a Vickrey–Clarke–Groves auction (VCG) auction, bidders submit sealed bids. The highest bidder receives the item but all other
bidders are also charged a payment based on their bid.
Double A double auction represents a marketplace with multiple sellers and buyers.
Combinatorial A Combinatorial auction bundles heterogeneous commodities (e.g., CPU cycles, memory, and bandwidth)
Deterministic. Deterministic monetary incentives pay out a fixed reward. Compared to auctions,
deterministic schemes guarantee predictable pricing, rewards, and costs. A disadvantage of deter-
ministic monetary rewards is the lack of fair pricing, as overpaying or underpaying is accepted,
and efficiency improvements are not automatically priced in. If high demand hits low supply, a
waiting-line forms, which results in service delays. We consider dynamic pricing schemes part
of deterministic pricing as long as the scheme follows a fixed algorithm and participants cannot
manipulate pricing. Deterministic pricing solves the problem of variable and unexpected costs for
a service with the downside of potential overpaying or underpaying and the risk of service delays.
3.1.2 Reputation. A reputation-based incentive mechanism seeks to establish trust among partici-
pants by using direct or indirect (transitive) behavior observations to predict participants’ future
behavior. Such observations are typically translated into a metric that represents a reputation value.
A reputation reward is a digital asset or metric that cannot be used to purchase goods or services
but is an indication to predict other network participants’ future behavior.
When two peers trust each other, both estimate the probability of benefitting from mutual
cooperation high enough to start engaging with each other. As Mantas et al. [77] pointed out,
reputation, and the reputation value that reflects it, “is subjective, non-symmetric, dynamic, and
context dependent”. This means, every participant can judge reputation differently and have
different reputation values for other participants, the reputation values change over time, and
multiple metrics for different interaction contexts can exist. As an example for the last property, a
peer can be assigned a different reputation value for providing media than for sensing data.
Some reputation mechanisms build transitive trust using information from other peers. However,
if A trusts B and B trusts C one cannot guarantee that A also trusts C due to the context dependence
of reputation. Systems that track reputation using a single source of truth significantly increase the
likelihood that reputation-based trust exhibits transitivity. Establishing a single source of truth in
a decentralized peer-to-peer network is feasible, e.g., by using a distributed ledger approach, in
which participants form a consensus over the validity of every participant’s actions and maintain
a record of all transactions in the network [9]. However, a distributed ledger as a single source
of truth can become a performance bottleneck, as the consensus mechanism demands time for
informing participants about new transactions and collecting their validations.
We differentiate reputation incentives by their type of incentive enforcement. The binaryDenylist-
ing of peers after misconduct is one such type. Denylisting can occur locally, upon decision by an
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

12 Ihle et al.
individual peer, or globally as a joint network decision. If incentives are non-binary and consider
the past cooperation of individual peers, we subsume them under the typeIndividual Reciprocity. An
example of a popular reciprocity-based reputation incentive mechanism is the tit-for-tat reputation
strategy first employed on a large scale by the BitTorrent network [74]. In this scheme, two parties
replicate the directly observed actions of the other party. If incentives apply to a group or cluster of
peers, we consider them to be of the type Clustered Cooperation. Further, we distinguish incentive
mechanisms that rely on Super Peers (SPs). The advantage of these schemes is that, in many
cases, a reputation value can be calculated locally. If transitive information is not incorporated, the
reputation value is independent of third parties. Hence, a peer only uses its transaction history
with peers to calculate the reputation value. Each peer maintains its source of truth. However,
systems in which a single source of truth manages the reputation exist as well. In that case, all
peers jointly rely on the same data to track peer reputation, e.g., a single server or a distributed
ledger. An inherent problem with reputation systems is the indeterminism of future behavior. A
high reputation value does not guarantee beneficial future actions. A reputation value is bound to
one identity and cannot be transferred to another participant.
Reputation systems promote cooperation, enforce participation, and thereby increase decentral-
ization. Monetary incentives, on the other hand, often lead to increased centralization when few,
efficient peers start selling tokens to other peers. Participants in reputation-based systems cannot
benefit from a service without contributing to the network which benefits decentralization.
3.1.3 Service. Monetary rewards implicitly capture the interaction history by accumulating value,
while reputation rewards explicitly express the cooperation history of participants. To cover in-
centive mechanisms that ignore the interaction history, we consider “service” as a third type of
incentive rewards , which include immediate access to computational services, information, or
media. Hence, a participant is incentivized with either direct access or exclusion from the ser-
vice. The advantages of service rewards are less complex cryptographic schemes and no need to
deploy or manage monitoring mechanisms. Service incentives are highly effective in preventing
identity-based attacks like Sybil attacks17.
Given our definition of the service reward type, one could think that the tit-for-tat scheme
represents a service reward. To recap: Tit-for-tat is a scheme in which interacting peers mirror
observed behavior. If a peer continuously cooperates, the interacting peer reciprocates the co-
operation. If a peer stops cooperating, the interacting peer likewise stops cooperating. Hence a
tit-for-tat scheme can be a service reward if it is based on immediate single interactions and does not
present a repeated game. If the interaction history is captured over multiple interactions, tit-for-tat
constitutes a reputation scheme. Tit-for-tat behavior can also be deployed in a monetary setting,
e.g., when a service allows accumulating bilateral monetary debt and settles the dept after a certain
time. Hence, tit-for-tat is a reciprocal behavior independent of the deployed incentive type.
In summary, the service incentive type subsumes cooperation schemes that neither use reputation,
nor monetary rewards as payoffs. Service incentives limit cooperation complexity by eliminating
the need for transaction histories and tracking mechanisms.
3.2 Attack Resistance
Incentive mechanisms rely on rewards and punishment. Attackers can target these rewards to
benefit illegitimately. We deviated six subordinate attack categories from the attacks we found in our
review of the secondary literature. These categories are false information attacks, identity attacks,
sniffing/confidentiality attacks, routing attacks, and collusion attacks. The following paragraphs
describe each attack category and explain their relation to the STRIDE [6]— a prominent model for
17A Sybil attack forges identities on peer-to-peer networks to hide the attacker’s history of misbehavior.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 13
identifying computer security threats developed at Microsoft. The model provides a mnemonic
for security threats in the categories of spoofing, tampering, repudiation, information disclosure,
denial of service, and elevation of privilege. With STRIDE in mind, we defined specific categories
that group threats by their countermeasures.
False Information Attacks describe the tempering of information to harm or illegitimately benefit
participants. Possible attacks on incentive mechanisms in this category are false recommendations,
misreporting, false accusations, and history modification.
Identity Attacks target the identity of a participant. Spoofing [6] is a prevalent identity attack in
which the attacker impersonates another participant to gain personal benefits or falsifies information
to misrepresent the origin of data. For example, in an email attack, the attacker may forge the
sender’s address or spoof an IP address to disguise a host’s identity or location and cause non-
repudiation [6]. The “Sybil-Attack” is another prominent identity attack, in which a participant
creates and uses many pseudonymous identities to gain personal benefits, e.g., increase its own
reputation, by discrediting other participants. “White-Washing” is an attack in which an adversary
can reset its reputation by rejoining the system under a different identity. Identity attacks also
threaten monetary-based incentive mechanisms. Authentication and authorization are common
countermeasures to prevent identity attacks.
Sniffing/Confidentiality Attacks cover two of the STRIDE threats: Information disclosure and
elevation of privilege [6]. Sniffing attacks allow the extraction and exploitation of data to harm
participants. Incentive mechanisms that cannot guarantee the security of personally identifiable
information might lose participants as a result.
Routing Attacks correspond to denial of service attacks [6] in the STRIDE model. Denial of service
attacks aim to exclude individual participants from the incentive mechanism or entirely disrupt the
operation of the incentive mechanism. Routing attacks can deprive participants of opportunities,
e.g., by not forwarding bids in an auction mechanism.
Selfish Attacks like free-rolling cause a single user to benefit illegitimately. Incentive mechanisms
are the main countermeasure to prevent “Free-Rolling”. Selfish attacks are not explicitly reflected
in the STRIDE model of threats but negatively impact peer-to-peer networks.
Collusion Attacks describe scenarios in which the majority of participants collaborate to benefit
illegitimately. Examples include the Byzantine Generals Problem [63] or Bitcoin’s 51% attack 18
Collusion attacks in decentralized networks are complex and harder to prevent than selfish attacks.
3.3 Data Management
Incentive mechanisms exhibit characteristic differences in their data management approach, which
we discuss by analyzing the properties (1) access control, (2) anonymity, (3) linkability, and (4)
confidentiality as security and privacy are not measurable directly. Table 9 shows which of these
data management aspects are over- or under-represented in certain incentive types by listing the
number of papers providing explicit information on these aspects.
We revisit these data management aspects in our discussion of privacy and security in Section (4.1).
The significance of privacy and security differs depending on the use-case-specific requirements.
An incentive mechanism with insufficient privacy or security might be dismissed, even if it provides
outstanding cooperation and participation results. For example, incentives should handle names and
other personal information adequately and refrain from sharing personally identifiable information
with third parties. Protecting sensitive personal information requires access control anonymization
to be General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) compliant.
18https://satoshi.nakamotoinstitute.org/emails/cryptography/11/
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

14 Ihle et al.
Access Control selectively enables participants to access information and perform actions, which
can interfere with the openness of a peer-to-peer network. Requiring cryptographic authentication
or an identifier to access functionality or data is a basic form of access control. More advanced
forms rely on lists to restrict access to different resources. Often, user roles are used to reduce
the management overhead of access lists. Decentralized systems can manage access lists on an
immutable distributed ledger [44] or let participants manage access to data individually [61]. Access
control can harden an incentive mechanism against attacks and protect its data from exploitation.
Anonymity exists if users are non-identifiable, unreachable, or untrackable. Incentive mecha-
nisms use either irreversible anonymity, reversible pseudonymity, or plain identifiable information.
Pseudonymity rather than anonymity is often sufficient to be GDPR-compliant as GDPR considers
information as identifiable only if it is reasonably likely to be identified [88]. We consider a masked
but reversible identifier a pseudonym. By this definition, all encrypted identities are pseudonyms.
Hiding the identity and its data from third parties is an obvious benefit of pseudonymized identifiers.
Pseudonymization can result in unlinkability which makes the contribution of actions and, hence,
the implementation of incentive mechanisms more difficult.
Linkability This aspect of incentive mechanisms measures if actions are attributable to transacting
participants. Weber defines unlinkability as “a property that aims at hiding relationships between
items in a system” [123]. Zero-knowledge authentication schemes [4] are a recent innovation to
provide linkability and pseudonymity/anonymity by providing encrypted attributes for access
control. Linkability is essential to attribute actions and reward or punish users. However, valid
reasons for anonymity, like the circumvention of governmental communication restrictions [17],
require additional overhead through zero-knowledge proofs to provide linkability and anonymity.
One example could be an incentive for user-provided networks like TOR and I2P [87].
Confidentiality can have various benefits and is achievable through access control, encryption,
or obfuscation. An auction mechanism might hide bids from other bidders to prevent active
competition and generate a fair price. A service-based incentive might hide the services’ users
to preserve their privacy. Companies might want to hide their engagement with other business
partners to strengthen their negotiating position.
3.4 Contribution Model
In this section, we define the aspects we use in Section 4.1 to specify and compare the contri-
bution models of incentive mechanisms. Contribution models define the demand for tasks. The
requirements for the contribution model vary depending on the incentive mechanism’s use case.
We distinguish whether an incentive mechanism allows participants to process tasks proactively or
reactively by assigning the tasks to the participants. Moreover, we analyze whether an incentive
mechanism allows claiming rewards for multiple tasks and if it is open for participation. These
design decisions affect the efficiency and accessibility of an incentive mechanism.
Proactive Contribution increases the flexibility of participants by allowing them to contribute at
any time and freely varying the tasks or resources.
Reactive Contribution assigns specific tasks to contributors, thereby restricting the contributed
tasks and resources according to the demand in the system.
Multitasking lets participants choose different homogenous or heterogeneous tasks or resource
contribution types. For example, if an incentive mechanism offers an incentive for both bandwidth
and uptime, we classify it as offering heterogenous multitasking.
Openness describes whether participation is open to everyone or access to the incentive is
permissioned using an onboarding requirement. Such a requirement could be Know Your Customer
(KYC) schemes or authorization through a participating institution.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 15
4 REVIEW OF THE PRIMARY LITERATURE
In this section, we present the primary literature, which we retrieved as described in Section 2.5,
according to the framework of design aspects derived from the secondary literature on the topic
(cf. Section 3). We analyze publications regarding the reward type (Section 4.1), attack resistance
(Section 4.2.1), data management approach (Section 4.2.2), and contribution model (Section 4.2.3) to
provide insights for specific use cases and network types and highlight research gaps.
Of the 178 primary research publications we retrieved, we selected those that met the following
requirements: (1) Contains an incentive mechanism as a core contribution, (2) is a P2P or decen-
tralized network, and (3) focuses on computational resources. We read and analyzed 105 of the
remaining 107 papers in detail as we could not retrieve the full texts of two appears. We briefly
describe each publication in Supplement A.4.
4.1 Reward Type
In this section, we categorize incentive mechanisms presented in primary research publications
by their reward type, i.e., monetary, reputation, and service (cf. Section 3.1). Table 3 for monetary
rewards, Table 4 for reputation rewards, and Table 5 for service rewards summarize our findings.
Moreover, Table 6 reflects the reward type and network type simultaneously.
4.1.1 Monetary. Monetary incentives can be realized in three ways: (1) blockchain-enabled cur-
rencies (cryptocurrency) [90], (2) multiple-currency economy [116], or (3) centrally managed
currencies. In Table 3, we summarize decentralized currencies like blockchain-enabled currency
and multiple-currency economy as Unified Virtual Currency and state centrally managed currencies
explicitly. A multiple-currency economy in the design of the Lightweight Currency Protocol [116]
does not suffer from blockchain overhead but requires trust in each service provider, as each of them
can deploy and operate its own currency. Other monetary incentives compromise decentralization
by including a trusted third party or central server to manage the currency. Regardless of the
implementation of the specific virtual currency, we observed monetary incentives to represent
either an auction or deterministic scheme.
Auction: The English auction is the simplest auction type we found in the reviewed P2P systems
[124, 28, 148, 132, 32, 130, 20, 84, 85]. This auction type generates high profits for the seller but
results in overpaying, especially if bids are private. Gupta et al. [33] used the more complex k-th
Sealed-bid auction type with 𝑘 = 2 in a private bid lookup protocol to reduce overpay significantly.
Double auctions that resemble marketplaces because sellers and bidders compete for the ideal bid
and ask for prices were used in the publications [13, 39, 113, 70, 69, 101, 73, 120, 66, 60, 143, 146,
139, 65, 95, 136, 94, 135, 126, 78, 55, 24, 23, 134, 47, 72]. A marketplace is a fair and decentralized
solution. All market participants are equal and can act as buyers and sellers to find a flexible and
fair price based on the current demand and supply. However, not all auctions allow flexible pricing
to set a fair price. Aslani et al. [7] employed inflexible pricing with only three pricing options and
invoked a Waiting-line if a providing peer is overloaded. A Waiting-line is common in absolute
deterministic pricing incentives as we describe in Section 4.1.1.
Peer-to-peer video streaming [148, 132, 32, 7, 130, 126, 78, 55] and file sharing [47, 13, 149, 132,
20, 39, 134, 120] were the main use cases in which auction mechanisms were deployed. Other
auction-incentivized tasks included mobile edge computing [113, 72] and relaying in mobile ad hoc
networks [84, 85, 70, 95, 136, 94, 135]. The publications [33, 143, 146, 139, 65] proposed a general
auction incentive not restricted to a specific task. The reviewed work on P2P computing [69, 101, 28]
and service discovery mechanisms [24, 23] exclusively used Double auctions. Wei et al. addressed
the crowdsensing task with reverse English auctions, in which the lowest bidder receives a task
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

16 Ihle et al.
[124]. A more recent publication by Sun et al. [113] used a smart-contract-capable blockchain to
provide a pure decentralized architecture, while the dated publication of Wu et al. [130] deployed a
lightweight virtual currency. Some auction mechanisms include centralized components to manage
a virtual currency [7, 132], making the incentive mechanism incompatible with pure P2P networks.
Deterministic: File sharing was the prevalent use case for deterministic monetary incentives
in the reviewed works [31, 40, 16, 121]. Both file-sharing and media streaming networks rely on
routing and relaying data in P2P systems. Teng et al. [52] proposed two variants of a coupon-based
incentive mechanism to reach customers. In the first variant, all forwarders benefit equally; in the
second a single forwarder benefits randomly. Digital coupons represent a deterministic benefit and
have monetary properties. Wang et al. [121] proposed a deterministic reward mechanism for data
sharing that considers prior encounters to estimate the closeness of participants and the possible
paths to define the expected reward to reach a peer. Although prices differ for each peer, the pricing
algorithm follows deterministic rules and is predictable.
De Sales et al. [22] facilitated efficient video streaming in a hybrid Content Delivery Network
(CDN)/P2P network. Their deterministic monetary incentive mechanism uses a virtual currency
(Tickets of Bits). A relay gains Tickets of Bits (ToB) as it shares its upload bandwidth with other
relay nodes that successfully receive media content. The algorithm considers the quality of the
stream to calculate the amount of ToBs to reward the user. Mousavi et al. [89] also deployed a
deterministic monetary incentive for video streaming and combined it with a reputation metric to
reflect the quality of service each peer delivers. Al Ridhawi et al. [2] proposed a blockchain-based
reward mechanism for peer-to-peer computing. The rewards are generated and paid proportional to
a peer’s capabilities as a token. Yu and Singh [139] presented a general incentive mechanism using
a deterministic and dynamic pricing scheme to mitigate free-riding by agents. In the deterministic
pricing scheme, a query issued by a particular peer incurs a cost for said peer if it gets answered by
a neighbor. In the dynamic pricing scheme, the authors consider the quality of services provided
by neighbors and adjust the payments accordingly. Zhang et al. [144] proposed a blockchain-based
deterministic pricing scheme to enable federated learning on a shared AI model.
Summary of Monetary Incentives: Table 3 summarizes the use of monetary incentives in the
reviewed works. Each row represents a publication with its monetary incentive and application
domains to highlight the prevalence of design decisions and potential research gaps. For instance,
the presented auction mechanisms primarily apply English and Double auctions, while other auction
types like the Dutch, Combinatorial, Anglo-Dutch, or VCG auction types (see Table 2 for details)
are rare in P2P incentive research. We expect a Dutch auction to provide benefits for time-critical
services like video and data streaming, where data becomes less valuable over time. Further, we
see Combinatorial auctions as a strong candidate for P2P computing as bandwidth, CPU cycles,
and memory are interdependent and should be rewarded jointly. The Anglo-Dutch could reduce
the costs for strictly limited resources for which overpaying is common, like Bitcoin transaction
fees. Finally, VCG could help in auctions that are majority-dependent, e.g., company shares or
stake19. The works we reviewed did not incentivize service discovery and peer-to-peer computing
with deterministic monetary incentives. We assume that the complexity of services and computing
tasks complicates deterministic pricing. Computing use cases require rewarding the CPU cycles,
memory, storage, and bandwidth. Not all these tasks are deterministic. Decentralized computing
solutions, therefore, include upper limits that abandon tasks20. Such limits could be introduced in
peer-to-peer computing to deploy a deterministic monetary incentive.
19https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pos/
20https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/gas/
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 17
Table 3. Primary research publications that applied monetary incentive mechanisms. The table shows the
incentive’s primary application domain and implementation. Research gaps like underexplored auction types
(cf. Table 2) and applications can be identified.
FS: File Sharing; MS: Media Streaming; CP: Computing; SD: Service Discovery; RR: Routing&Relaying; O: Other; A: Any; Cur: Currency (BEC: Blockchain-Enabled
Cur.; MCE: Multiple-Cur. Economy; CMC: Centrally Managed Cur.; UVC: Unified Virtual Currency); R: Reverse
Ref Year Authors Monetary Type FS MS CP SD RR O A Cur
[31] 2012 Gramaglia et al. Deterministic X CMC
[40] 2018 He et al. Deterministic X CMC
[16] 2013 Centeno et al. Deterministic X UVC
[112] 2009 Sirivianos et al. Deterministic X CMC
[22] 2014 De Sales et al. Deterministic X CMC
[89] 2019 Mousavi and Klein Deterministic X UVC
[78] 2008 Manzato and da Fonseca Deterministic X CMC
[55] 2017 Kang and Yang Deterministic X UVC
[52] 2014 Jin Teng et al. Deterministic X CMC
[121] 2014 Wang et al. Deterministic X CMC
[139] 2004 Yu and Singh Deterministic X UVC
[144] 2021 Zhang et al. Deterministic X UVC
[134] 2015 Xin Kang and Yongdong Wu Double Auction X UVC
[120] 2003 Wang and Li Double Auction X UVC
[47] 2022 Jaiman et al. Double Auction X BEC
[148] 2014 Zou and Chen Double Auction X UVC
[73] 2019 Lin et al. Double Auction X BEC
[69] 2008 Lijuan Xiao et al. Double Auction X UVC
[101] 2012 Rius et al. Double Auction X CMC
[23] 2013 del Val et al. Double Auction X UVC
[24] 2014 del Val et al. Double Auction X UVC
[70] 2004 Lin and Lo Double Auction X UVC
[95] 2013 Padhariya et al. Double Auction X CMC
[94] 2016 Padhariya et al. Double Auction X CMC
[136] 2006 Xue et al. Double Auction X UVC
[135] 2016 Xu et al. Double Auction X UVC
[113] 2020 Sun et al. Double Auction X BEC
[72] 2022 Lin et al. Double Auction X BEC
[66] 2018 Li et al. Double Auction X UVC
[60] 2016 Kim Double Auction X BEC
[143] 2012 Zhang et al. Double Auction X CMC
[146] 2012 Zhao et al. Double Auction X UVC
[65] 2009 Li et al. Double Auction X CMC
[139] 2004 Yu and Singh Double Auction X UVC
[39] 2020 Haq and Faheem Double Auction X UVC
[13] 2020 Bhattacharya and Guo Double Auction X CMC
[149] 2014 Zuo and Zhang English Auction X X UVC
[132] 2014 Wu et al. English Auction X X CMC
[20] 2006 Cheng et al. English Auction X MCE
[126] 2014 Weijie Wu et al. English Auction X UVC
[7] 2018 Aslani et al. English Auction (R) X MCE
[124] 2020 Wei et al. English Auction (R) X MCE
[28] 2020 Fang et al. English Auction X UVC
[84] 2010 Mondal et al. English Auction X UVC
[85] 2009 Mondal et al. English Auction X UVC
[32] 2008 Guang Tan and Jarvis 1st Sealed-bid X UVC
[130] 2012 Wu et al. 2nd Sealed-bid X MCE
[33] 2004 Gupta and Somani 2nd Sealed-bid X UVC
4.1.2 Reputation. In the following, we discuss the application domains and incentive enforcement
types, i.e., Individual Reciprocity, Clustered Cooperation, Local Denylisting and Global Denylisting,
of reputation mechanisms. Reviewed works predominantly applied reputation-based incentives
for file sharing [117, 42, 62, 10, 91, 76, 61, 3, 41, 109, 74, 57, 83, 128] and media streaming [5, 71,
118, 92, 10, 29, 51, 78, 86, 137, 100, 41, 133, 64, 35, 117]. Only two articles covered peer-to-peer
computing [96, 101, 75], and service discovery [97, 23] respectively. Other applications included
joint radio resource allocation [46, 48], the prevention of fake online media [19], and federated
machine learning[54]. Most of the analyzed reputation mechanisms are versatile in use and can be
applied in any peer-to-peer application [122, 30, 49, 38, 53, 93, 56, 115, 141, 18, 68, 143, 142]. Two
publications covered routing and relaying [111, 131]. Reputation mechanisms in the Any-category
are suitable for incentivizing arbitrary applications. Most reviewed works employed reciprocity
(tit-for-tat) supported by calculated individual reputation or trust values that were translated into
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

18 Ihle et al.
service quality [111, 41, 92, 78, 86, 61, 137, 100, 133, 118, 117, 19, 30, 50, 53, 93, 68, 83, 74, 57, 71].
The more participants contribute, the more resources of other peers become available to them.
Some reputation mechanisms group participants based on their reputation into clusters, also
referred to as coalitions or groups, rather than defining the service quality for individual participants
[42, 10, 76, 3, 109, 64, 75, 38, 46]. Super peers that manage peer groups are a semi-centralized
approach of grouped reciprocity-based incentives [62, 101, 115, 128]. Peers are assigned to super
peers based on their reputation value, physical proximity, thematic similarity, common interest,
or at random. Other approaches put peers on a global, i.e., network-wide, denylist [5, 128, 51, 35,
54], or allow peers to dismiss uncooperative peers locally [111, 29, 91, 97, 23, 122, 141, 143, 142, 18,
56]. An approach that allows global peer penalties requires a single source of truth available to all
participants. This single source of truth can be a distributed ledger, as Kang et al. have demonstrated
[54] or a distributed hash table like Pal et al. [96] have shown.
Table 4. Primary research publications that applied reputation-based incentive mechanisms. The table shows
the primary application domain and the reputation mechanism type.
FS: File Sharing; MS: Media Streaming; CP: Computing; SD: Service Discovery; RR: Routing&Relaying; O: Other; A: Any
Ref Year Authors Reputation Type FS MS CP SD RR O A
[62] 2015 Kurve et al. Clustered Cooperation SP X
[101] 2012 Rius et al. Clustered Cooperation SP X
[115] 2014 Tian et al. Clustered Cooperation SP X
[42] 2014 Hu et al. Clustered Cooperation X
[76] 2006 Ma et al. Clustered Cooperation X
[3] 2010 Allen et al. Clustered Cooperation X
[109] 2020 Shen et al. Clustered Cooperation X
[10] 2013 Belmonte et al. Clustered Cooperation X X
[64] 2012 Li et al. Clustered Cooperation X
[75] 2020 Luo et al. Clustered Cooperation X
[46] 2016 Ismail et al. Clustered Cooperation X
[48] 2016 Jain et al. Clustered Cooperation X
[38] 2005 Hales and Edmonds Clustered Cooperation X
[128] 2019 Wong et al. Global Denylisting SP X
[5] 2021 Ansari et al. Global Denylisting SP X
[51] 2015 Jin and Kwok Global Denylisting X
[54] 2019 Kang et al. Global Denylisting X
[96] 2022 Pal et al. Global Denylisting X
[61] 2006 Koo and Lee Individual Reciprocity X
[15] 2013 Carra et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[74] 2010 Liu et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[83] 2013 Meulpolder et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[57] 2006 Kazatzopoulos et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[41] 2013 Hu et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[117] 2012 Vakili and Khorsandi Individual Reciprocity X X
[71] 2009 Lin et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[118] 2014 Wang et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[92] 2017 Nasab and Bidgoli Individual Reciprocity X
[78] 2008 Manzato and da Fonseca Individual Reciprocity X
[137] 2006 Yang Individual Reciprocity X
[41] 2013 Hu et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[86] 2012 Montazeri et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[100] 2007 Pianese et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[133] 2012 Xiao et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[131] 2012 Wu et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[19] 2020 Chen et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[122] 2018 Wang Individual Reciprocity X
[30] 2018 Goswami et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[49] 2004 Jiang et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[53] 2003 Kamvar et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[93] 2005 Neovius Individual Reciprocity X
[68] 2019 Li et al. Individual Reciprocity X
[91] 2005 Nandi et al. Local Denylisting X
[29] 2016 Gonçalves et al. Local Denylisting X
[35] 2006 Habib and Chuang Local Denylisting X
[97] 2006 Papaioannou and Stamoulis Local Denylisting X
[23] 2013 del Val et al. Local Denylisting X
[111] 2021 Singha and Singh Local Denylisting X
[143] 2012 Zhang et al. Local Denylisting X
[142] 2018 Zhang et al. Local Denylisting X
[18] 2014 Chang et al. Local Denylisting X
[141] 2013 Zhang and Antonopoulos Local Denylisting X
[56] 2008 Karakaya et al. Local Denylisting X
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 19
Summary of Reputation Incentives: Table 4 summarizes the presented works on reputation incen-
tives. Each shows the reputation incentive type and application domain addressed by a publication.
The table shows an even distribution of application domains but a comparably infrequent use of
Global Denylisting. Only three of 48 primary research publications applied global denylisting. We
suspect that reaching a consensus on the network-wide denylist is challenging without a single
source of truth. Recent advances in distributed ledger technology allowed Kang et al. [54] to deploy
a sophisticated solution to this problem. We see the use DLT for reputation management as a
promising direction for future research. Applying a distributed hash table [96] to achieve similar
results with less coordination overhead is particularly promising.
4.1.3 Service. Table 5 shows the application domains and peer selection types of service incentive
mechanisms. Other than Tables 3 and 4, Table 5 does not have a column for Service Type because
service incentives only differ in their peer selection types in case multiple peers compete for the
same task but not, e.g., in how the incentive is granted. The peer selection types are Interest-Based,
Capability-Based, Mean Time To Failure (MTTF)-based , Hop-Counter-Based, and Tag-Based.
The main application area for service incentives is file sharing [1, 26, 81, 59]. We also found
service incentives applied for media streaming [99] and routing & relaying [37]. Esfandiari et al.
[26] connected peers that reported similar interest in files. Hadzibeganovic & Xia had peers report
their properties and topic interests as tags [37]. Meng et al. [81] let peers report their maximum
capabilities to neighboring peers, which in turn try to connect to highly capable peers. Similarly,
Adamu [1] used each peer’s share ratio to regulate service access. A peer could only retrieve data if
it was simultaneously providing data. Kim [59] used the reported mean time to failure (MTTF). For
video streaming, Park et al. [99] relied on peers correctly setting a hop-counter for each package
to detect the shortest path and create redundant paths to ensure failure resistance. The common
element of all these approaches is their reliance on participants reporting information correctly.
The reviewed works did not apply service incentives for peer-to-peer computing and service
discovery (cf. Table 5), which are frequent application areas for other incentive types. For peer-
to-peer computing, a binary reward is suboptimal as each computational task has other resource
requirements. Service discovery could be a suitable application for service incentives in our view.
Table 5. Primary research publications that applied service incentive mechanisms. The table shows the
primary application domain and the type of peer selection mechanism. Service incentives have not been
applied in peer-to-peer computing and service discovery.
FS: File Sharing; MS: Media Streaming; CP: Computing; SD: Service Discovery; RR: Routing&Relaying; O: Other; A: Any
Ref Year Authors Peer Selection Type FS MS CP SD RR O A
[26] 2017 Esfandiari et al. Interest-Based X
[81] 2013 Meng and Li Capability-Based X
[1] 2021 Adamu Capability-Based X
[59] 2010 Kim MTTF-Based X
[99] 2010 Park et al. Hop-Counter-Based X
[37] 2016 Hadzibeganovic and Xia Tag-Based X
4.1.4 Classification by Reward and Network Type. Some use cases impose network-type-specific
requirements on incentive mechanisms, such as the ability to handle topological changes and
varying paths in the case of MANETs or delay tolerance in the case of DTNs. MEC networks,
on the other hand, strive to provide delay-sensitive computing services so that users can offload
expensive computing tasks from their mobile devices to servers nearby. MSNs require the incentive
mechanism to respect the limited computing capabilities and energy budget of mobile peers. MCCs
relies on stationary cellular uplink infrastructure that leverages clustered cooperation to power
mobile device internet connectivity efficiently by avoiding inter-cell interference.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

20 Ihle et al.
Table 6 allows identifying incentive mechanisms that address the requirements of specific
network types using either monetary, reputation, or service incentives. Most incentive mechanisms
are designed for general peer-to-peer networks and do not consider network delays, peer mobility,
and resource constraints. Less research addressed incentive mechanisms for networks operating
under such constraints. While publications in thepeer-to-peer column may address specific network
types, they do not impose particular constraints. Rewards that use multiple reputation types are
categorized by their main incentive in Table 6. For example, an incentive that uses reputation to
define the amount of monetary reward [139] is categorized as a monetary reward mechanism.
Table 6. Primary research publications grouped by reward and network types. Less research has addressed
resource-constrained networks and networks with a dynamic topology than general peer-to-peer networks.
P2P: Peer-to-Peer; MEC: Mobile Edge Computing; MANET: Mobile Ad Hoc Network; DTN: Delay Tolerant Network; MSN: Mobile Social Network; MCC: Multi-Cell
Cooperation
P2P MEC MANET DTN MSN MCC
Monetary Auction [13, 124, 120, 132, 32, 20, 33, 7, 130, 149, 148, 69, 146, 65,
139, 136, 78, 55, 101, 143, 73, 66, 24, 23, 126, 134, 66, 60,
47, 72]
[113,
84]
[70, 85, 94,
95, 28]
[39] [135]
Deterministic [144, 2, 16, 112, 139, 40, 22, 31] [89] [52, 121]
Reputation [5, 105, 41, 128, 71, 74, 86, 118, 122, 83, 30, 49, 91, 38,
137, 97, 76, 61, 100, 3, 15, 109, 133, 64, 53, 93, 35, 56, 78,
117, 115, 51, 29, 101, 141, 19, 18, 10, 54, 68, 143, 142, 62,
92, 42, 23]
[131, 75,
57]
[111,
46,
48]
Service [1, 80, 26, 99, 81, 37, 59] [37]
4.2 Attack Resistance, Data Management, and Contribution Model
In this section, we discuss the attack resistance, data management, and contribution model of
incentive mechanisms (cf. Sections 3.2–3.4) presented in primary research publications. Additionally,
Table 9 in Supplement A.3 categorizes publications regarding these design aspects. We exclusively
examine these properties for practical projects but not for purely game-theoretical publications
that describe abstract peer interactions without providing implementation details.
Resistant Mitigated Vulnerable
Routing Attack
Sniﬃng & Conﬁdentiality
Identity Attack
Collusion Attack
False Information
Selﬁsh Attack
6 4 11
11 2 10
14 11 3
9 13 9
12 11 8
46 20 6
10
20
30
40
Fig. 2. Categorization of incentive mechanisms regarding their resistance to specific attacks. Selfish attacks
received the most attention in the reviewed works; other attacks were rarely addressed.
4.2.1 Attack Resistance. Figure 2 gives an overview of the attack resistance of incentive mechanisms
by classifying the publications presenting the incentives. Please note that the figure only considers
publications that provide information on resistance to the attacks described in Section 3.2. Many
of the analyzed incentive mechanisms lack evaluations of certain attack vectors and none of the
analyzed publications provided details on all six attack vectors. This lack of information limits
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 21
the comparability of the analyzed works. 23 incentive mechanisms implement mitigations for
or showed resistance against half or more of the attack vectors, and few incentive mechanisms
mitigate five of the six attack vectors [71, 57, 31, 40]. Most of the analyzed incentive mechanisms
(66) mitigate network participants’ selfish behavior. This prioritization of preventingSelfish Attacks
is unsurprising, as many incentive mechanisms are designed to promote either participation or
cooperation. Sniffing & Confidentiality Attacks , on the other hand, seem to be of little relevance
in peer-to-peer incentive mechanisms, as only 18 publications allowed for assumptions on the
resistance against this attack type. Notably, some mechanisms can resist false information attacks
while staying vulnerable to other attacks. An example is the mechanism of Karakaya et al. [56]
which is vulnerable to identity attacks. Sybil attacks, for example, flood the system with newly
created identities while stating the contribution information correctly. Table 9 in the supplement
facilitates finding related work for use cases that require resistance against specific attack types.
Yes No Other
Anonymity
Conﬁdentiality
Access Control
Multi Tasking
Linkability
Openness
7 10 33
10 37 0
12 56 0
30 55 0
71 6 0
70 6 1
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Fig. 3. Categorization of incentive mechanisms regarding their data management and contribution model
properties. Classifications as Other in the category Anonymity mainly represent pseudonymity.
4.2.2 Data Management. Figure 3 summarizes the data management and contribution model
properties of the analyzed incentive mechanisms by classifying the research publications that
present the mechanisms accordingly. Most incentive mechanisms do not employ Access Control.
Such open designs allow for easy onboarding of new peers and, hence, faster growth of the network.
Most peer-to-peer incentive mechanisms employ pseudonymization by assigning masked identi-
fiers to peers. Few mechanisms make peers directly identifiable or use total anonymity. The level
of Anonymity is relevant for GDPR compliance and security, as malicious actors might bribe or
blackmail peers in the network to influence their actions.
However, an identifiable identity only becomes a security concern ifLinkability is given. Missing
Linkability masks the relationship between actions and identities in the incentive mechanism to
provide privacy. Incentive mechanisms that provide anonymity naturally lack linkability, while
linkable incentive mechanisms provide no anonymity or pseudonymity. Most incentive mechanisms
we reviewed are linkable according to the definition in Section 3.3. We expected this observation
for reputation-based and service incentive mechanisms but not necessarily for monetary incen-
tives. Reputation is identity-dependent and must therefore be linkable. Service incentives provide
imminent access to services as a reward for an entity linked to a successful contribution.
Confidentiality describes whether incentive rewards and the action history are visible to other net-
work members. Confidentiality is typically given if each peer calculates the incentive mechanism’s
payoffs locally and individually.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

22 Ihle et al.
4.2.3 Contribution Model. The analyzed publication implemented reactive and proactive task
management; some both. Most mechanisms are designed for a single task, while the minority
allows for heterogeneous actions that simultaneously incentivize multiple tasks ( Multitasking).
Rewarding multiple actions, like storage and bandwidth for file-sharing, is beneficial for some
use cases, such as similarity detection. All but one incentive mechanism are open, i.e., do not
enforce preconditions or access control on participating peers. Openness, i.e., allowing everyone to
participate benefits decentralization, encourages participation, and maximizes contribution rate,
which are primary goals for many peer-to-peer networks. However, we found a few exceptions.
Garamaglia et al. [31] used banks to manage the monetary rewards of their incentive mechanism.
These banks required registration and might deny participants from other jurisdictions. Chen et
al. [19] required participants to submit certain data and documents to verify and validate them as
news organizations. Kang et al. [54], Lin et al. [73], and Wei et al. [124] managed their incentive
mechanisms using a consortium blockchain with predefined members, thereby limiting the incentive
mechanisms but keeping the peer-to-peer network open peers to join. Such closed systems offer a
high level of control and are often operated without decentralized incentive mechanisms.
5 CASE EXAMPLE
This section applies our framework of design aspects to a specific use case. We wish to find
applicable incentive mechanisms for the academic use case of decentralized similarity detection,
which we presented in prior work [45]. Decentralized similarity detection would enable literature
recommendation or plagiarism checks without disclosing the content of the input document or the
collection to which it is compared. Moreover, the system and data would not be controlled by a
central provider. This design would eliminate the privacy and legal concerns of current systems.
Fig. 4. Decision tree guiding the selection of a suitable incentive type.
We use the information provided in the previous section to derive the decision tree depicted in
Figure 4 to structure the selection process. In the first step, we decide on the most crucial question:
Does the use case require a decentralized service? This question should rule out any service not
requiring incentives at all. Academic services like the one we consider here are usually self-hosted
or provided by a third party. Often, institutions run similar services but restrict access to their
members. For academic institutions, sharing infrastructure and services is still uncommon, which
limits the availability and scalability of the services. Cooperatively providing and using incentivized
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 23
academic services with other institutions could significantly improve this situation. Hence, we aim
for a decentralized service provision.
The second question addresses the amount of control we have over participating nodes. In our
case, we could set up legally binding contracts to ensure known academic institutions commit to
providing defined computational resources and achieving a certain degree of availability. However,
this approach would hinder decentralization, as the service would be a closed system lacking the
flexibility to onboard unknown nodes to handle heavily fluctuating demand. While we can ensure
that a certain number of nodes will participate, we cannot guarantee that they will match our
scalability goals if demand rises. Hence, we require a permissionless incentive mechanism.
Having established the need for an open and decentralized incentive mechanism, we decide
whether we need accumulated service contingents. Academic services face periodical load shifts,
e.g., because students need to submit their papers at the end of a semester. Incentive mechanisms
that accumulate rewards (cf. Section 4.1.1) or maintain a transaction history (cf. Section 4.1.2) are
advantageous for such use cases, as peers are incentivized to participate outside major load periods.
These load periods differ for different institutions.
The last decision addresses the transferability of service contingents. The option to transfer
contingents obtained through service contribution opens the service for non-contributing network
members. This is a potential security risk, as the service is not guaranteed to remain decentralized
in that case. Highly efficient nodes could sell their contingents to other nodes and, thus, eliminate
the need for other network members to maintain and operate their nodes. These considerations
let us choose a reputation-based incentive. Considering the remaining properties of reputation-
based incentives let us choose the mechanism of Chang et al. [18] as the best fit for our use case.
Supplement A.2 provides details on our decision process.
6 SIMULATION SOFTWARE
The publications we reviewed evaluated the proposed mechanisms through experiments, simula-
tions, or analytical calculations. To facilitate future simulation studies, we analyzed publications that
employed simulations for the software they used. For this purpose, we checked every publication
for the keyword simul* and extracted the information pertaining to simulation software.
Of the 105 primary research publications we identified as relevant (cf. Section 4), 22 used off-the-
shelf software (see Table 7), three did not include an empirical evaluation [19, 29, 93], two conducted
applied experiments [112, 57], and 78 simulated their incentive mechanism using custom simulation
software. Of the 22 publications that employed off-the-shelf software, two used PlanetLab 21—a
platform that allowed conducting experiments under laboratory conditions on a global research
network until its shutdown in 2020 22. That 3/4 of the reviewed publication developed custom
simulation software significantly complicates comparing and reproducing the results of different
publications. Moreover, many of the employed off-the-shelf tools are no longer actively maintained.
Table 7 shows the dates on which the software was released or last updated, if available.
The tools we found still in active development are NS2, OMNeT++, SimPy, and NetLogo. OMNeT++
and SimPy are discrete event simulators. OMNeT++ and NS2 allow users to specifically build network
simulators. NetLogo lets users implement agent-based models to simulate complex systems and
their dynamics over time. The sundown of PlanetLab left a gap for large-scale test networks that
the peer-to-peer research community should address. Alternatively, future research using network
simulators should use NS2, OMNet++, or SimPy to profit from the tools’ continuous development.
21https://planetlab.cs.princeton.edu/
22https://www.systemsapproach.org/blog-archive/its-been-a-fun-ride
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

24 Ihle et al.
Table 7. Simulation software used in multiple publications. 78 of 105 publications used custom simulation
software. PlanetLab was not strictly a simulation software but an experimentation platform.
Tool/Platform References Note
SimPy [101] Last updated 2020
PlanetSim [130] Released 2004
GNUSim [56] Released 2005
NetLogo [26] Last updated 2020
p2pstrmsim [64] Released 2008
Query-Cycle [53] Released 2003
PlanetLab [105, 35] Shutdown 2020
Tool/Platform References Note
ONE [39, 121] Last updated 2015
PeerSim [128, 149, 81] Last updated 2015
OMNeT++ [5, 2, 94, 95, 86] Actively developed 2022
QTM [68] Last updated 2009
Bharambe [42] Released 2006
ProtoPeer [141] Last updated 2016
NS2 [55] Actively developed 2022
7 RESEARCH TRENDS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
At the beginning of our systematic review, we expected that we could use established properties to
compare incentive mechanisms. However, we had to realize that publications differ drastically in
the definition and selection of properties they use to describe, evaluate, and compare incentives.
Without generalizing a wide range of related properties, we would not have been able to present
meaningful comparisons. Therefore, we derived a descriptive framework consisting ofReward Type,
Attack Resistance, Data Management approach, Contribution Model, and subordinate properties.
We suggest that future publications consider the framework for describing and evaluating their
research contributions to increase the comparability of incentive mechanisms.
The evaluations presented in the reviewed primary research publications employed various
methodologies and tools, including game-theoretical and mathematical analysis, agent-based
simulators (NetLogo), network simulators (NS2, OMNeT++, SimPy, ONE, PeerSim, QTM, Bharambe,
ProtoPeer, PlanetSim, GNUSim, p2pstrmsim, Query-Cycle), and experiments on large scale test-
networks (PlanetLab, ProtoPeer). Our analysis of simulation software (Section 6) shows that the use
of custom or no longer maintained software severely limits the reproducibility and comparability of
the results reported in primary research publications. We recommend that future research includes
detailed methodological descriptions and uses actively maintained simulation software, such as
NS2, OMNet++, and SimPy, to improve the comparability and reproducibility of results.
In our review of the secondary literature, we found that prior literature reviews did not cover
DLT and mostly focused on ad-hoc networks instead of fixed-topology peer-to-peer networks. On
the other hand, reviewing the primary literature showed that DLT is a trending and important
topic in peer-to-peer research and was applied widely to build incentive mechanisms. Especially
monetary and reputation-based incentives can benefit from the distributed single source of truth.
Research gaps are most apparent for auction mechanisms. Combinatorial auctions have not yet
been used for peer-to-peer computing networks, which surprised us, as rewarding the combined
contribution of CPU cycles, memory, storage, and bandwidth appears appropriate. Moreover,
incentive mechanisms for media streaming peer-to-peer networks have not yet used Dutch auctions,
which seem ideal for such time-critical data streams. Anglo-Dutch auctions, which effectively reduce
overpay, could be considered for applications prone to overpaying, like Bitcoin’s transaction reward
scheme. Further, we expect VCG to be suitable for incentive mechanisms that reward participants
with majority-dependent tokens, such as Proof-Of-Stake tokens or company shares.
We see Service Discovery as an underexplored application domain of service-based incentives,
which future research should consider addressing. Publications we retrieved that employed federated
learning predominantly utilized centralized entities to control contributing peers. Consequently,
we excluded many of those publications from our review for not matching the requirement of
presenting decentralized P2P incentives. In some cases, machine learning algorithms and game-
theoretical simulations were used to improve incentive mechanisms for subsequent application
in decentralized P2P networks. Substituting centralized control for machine learning use cases is
another field worth exploring in future research.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 25
8 CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK
This systematic literature review analyzed primary and secondary literature on peer-to-peer
incentive mechanisms between 1993 and 2022. After describing the criteria for including and
excluding publications we reviewed the secondary literature. By analyzing relevant prior reviews,
we synthesized a descriptive framework to analyze and compare incentive mechanisms. The
framework considers the Reward Type, Attack Resistance, Data Management approach, Contribution
Model, and subordinate properties. We applied the framework to analyze and present the 105
primary research publications in this review. Additionally, we gave an overview of the distribution
of network types, evaluation and simulation tools, discussed the features of DLT, and applied our
findings to select an incentive mechanism for a peer-to-peer academic network.
The findings and contributions of this review are as follows:
(1) Web of Science supported Boolean queries during our search, while DBLP did not. Google
Scholar did not apply Boolean constraints strictly in the case of highly cited publications.
(2) Incentive mechanisms lack comparability. The framework we devised seeks to improve the
comparability of future descriptions and evaluations of incentive mechanisms.
(3) The research on peer-to-peer incentive mechanisms exhibits the following gaps.
(a) Prior literature reviews did not cover DLT and insufficiently addressed fixed-topology
peer-to-peer networks.
(b) Auction mechanisms have not yet explored combinatorial auctions for peer-to-peer
computing networks, Dutch auctions for time-critical application areas like media
streaming peer-to-peer networks, Anglo-Dutch auctions for overpay-afflicted net-
works using cryptocurrency, and VCG for schemes that reward participants with
majority-dependent Proof-of-Stake tokens.
(c) Service Discovery is an underexplored application domain of service-based incentives.
(4) The widespread use of custom or discontinued off-the-shelf simulation software severely
limits the reproducibility of research results.
(5) A general trend towards decentralized services and incentive mechanisms is observable. We
exemplified the selection of a peer-to-peer incentive for an academic network.
Future reviews should include gray literature on DLT not covered by Web Of Science. A promising
source of gray literature on peer-to-peer DLT incentives is the overview of the top-100 cryptocur-
rency projects by market cap23. Reviewing this gray literature will require conceptual analysis and
evaluation of incentives, and in many cases, code analysis as the literature does not always reflect
the current state of the projects. The research on peer-to-peer incentives is evolving rapidly. We
created a property framework to motivate and facilitate periodic future reviews of the literature to
increase the comparability of research projects and support researchers in staying up-to-date with
the fast-paced research progress in the field.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Adamu. “Share-Ratio-Based Incentive Mechanism for File Sharing With BitTorrent
Protocol”. In: IEEE Access 9 (2021), pp. 91524–91536. doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3092277.
[2] I. Al Ridhawi, M. Aloqaily, and Y. Jararweh. “An Incentive-based Mechanism for Volunteer
Computing Using Blockchain”. In: ACM Transactions on Internet Technology 21.4 (July 2021),
pp. 1–22. doi: 10.1145/3419104.
[3] S. M. Allen, G. Colombo, and R. M. Whitaker. “Cooperation through Self-Similar Social
Networks”. In: ACM Transactions on Autonomous and Adaptive Systems 5.1 (Feb. 2010),
pp. 1–29. doi: 10.1145/1671948.1671952.
23https://coinmarketcap.com/
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

26 Ihle et al.
[4] An Approximate Introduction to How Zk-SNARKs Are Possible. url: https://vitalik.ca/general/
2021/01/26/snarks.html (visited on 02/01/2021).
[5] S. A. Ansari et al. “Score-Based Incentive Mechanism (SIM) for Live Multimedia Streaming
in Peer-to-Peer Network”. In:Multimedia Tools and Applications80.13 (May 2021), pp. 19263–
19290. doi: 10.1007/s11042-021-10709-2.
[6] Archiveddocs. The STRIDE Threat Model . 2009. url: https : / / docs . microsoft . com / en -
us/previous-versions/commerce-server/ee823878(v=cs.20) (visited on 12/16/2020).
[7] R. Aslani, V. Hakami, and M. Dehghan. “A Token-Based Incentive Mechanism for Video
Streaming Applications in Peer-to-Peer Networks”. In: Multimedia Tools and Applications
77.12 (June 2018), pp. 14625–14653. doi: 10.1007/s11042-017-5051-9.
[8] J. Beall. “Best Practices for Scholarly Authors in the Age of Predatory Journals”. In: The
Annals of The Royal College of Surgeons of England 98.2 (Feb. 2016), pp. 77–79. doi: 10.1308/
rcsann.2016.0056.
[9] E. Bellini, Y. Iraqi, and E. Damiani. “Blockchain-Based Distributed Trust and Reputation
Management Systems: A Survey”. In: IEEE Access 8 (2020), pp. 21127–21151. doi: 10/gnz454.
[10] M.-V. Belmonte et al. “COINS: COalitions and INcentiveS for Effective Peer-to-Peer Down-
loads”. In: Journal of Network and Computer Applications 36.1 (Jan. 2013), pp. 484–497. doi:
10.1016/j.jnca.2012.04.010.
[11] Y. Ben Saied et al. “A Survey of Collaborative Services and Security-Related Issues in Modern
Wireless Ad-Hoc Communications”. In: Journal of Network and Computer Applications 45
(Oct. 2014), pp. 215–227. doi: 10.1016/j.jnca.2014.07.036.
[12] A. Berentsen and F. Schär. Bitcoin, Blockchain und Kryptoassets . Erste Auflage. Norderstedt:
BoD - Books on Demand, 2015. 359 pp.
[13] P. Bhattacharya and M. Guo. “An Incentive Compatible Mechanism for Replica Placement
in Peer-Assisted Content Distribution:” in: International Journal of Software Science and
Computational Intelligence 12.1 (Jan. 2020), pp. 47–67. doi: 10.4018/IJSSCI.2020010104.
[14] L. Buttyán and J.-P. Hubaux. Nuglets: A Virtual Currency to Stimulate Cooperation in Self-
Organized Mobile Ad Hoc Networks . 2001.
[15] D. Carra et al. “On the Impact of Incentives in eMule - Analysis and Measurements of a
Popular File-Sharing Application”. In: IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications
31.9 (Sept. 2013), pp. 94–104. doi: 10.1109/jsac.2013.sup.0513009.
[16] R. Centeno, H. Billhardt, and R. Hermoso. “Persuading Agents to Act in the Right Way: An
Incentive-Based Approach”. In: Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence 26.1 (Jan.
2013), pp. 198–210. doi: 10.1016/j.engappai.2012.10.001.
[17] S. Chandel et al. “The Golden Shield Project of China: A Decade Later—An in-Depth
Study of the Great Firewall”. In: 2019 International Conference on Cyber-Enabled Distributed
Computing and Knowledge Discovery (CyberC) . 2019 International Conference on Cyber-
Enabled Distributed Computing and Knowledge Discovery (CyberC). Guilin, China: IEEE,
Oct. 2019, pp. 111–119. doi: 10.1109/cyberc.2019.00027.
[18] J. Chang et al. “An Incentive Compatible Reputation Mechanism for P2P Systems”. In: The
Journal of Supercomputing 69.3 (Sept. 2014), pp. 1382–1409. doi: 10.1007/s11227-014-1204-z.
[19] Q. Chen et al. “An Incentive-Aware Blockchain-Based Solution for Internet of Fake Media
Things”. In: Information Processing & Management 57.6 (Nov. 2020), p. 102370. doi: 10.1016/
j.ipm.2020.102370.
[20] J. Cheng et al. “A Utility-Based Auction Cooperation Incentive Mechanism in Peer-to-Peer
Networks”. In: Emerging Directions in Embedded and Ubiquitous Computing . Ed. by X. Zhou
et al. Red. by D. Hutchison et al. Vol. 4097. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg,
2006, pp. 11–21. doi: 10.1007/11807964_2.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 27
[21] P. Daras et al. “A Novel Peer-to-Peer Payment Protocol”. In: The IEEE Region 8 EUROCON
2003. Computer as a Tool. IEEE Region 8 EUROCON 2003. Computer as a Tool. Vol. 1.
Ljubljana, Slovenia: IEEE, 2003, pp. 2–6. doi: 10.1109/eurcon.2003.1247967.
[22] L. De Sales et al. “Generalized Connections and Incentives for Supporting CE Devices in
Live Streaming Systems”. In: IEEE Transactions on Consumer Electronics 60.4 (Nov. 2014),
pp. 605–613. doi: 10.1109/tce.2014.7027333.
[23] E. del Val, M. Rebollo, and V. Botti. “Promoting Cooperation in Service-Oriented MAS
through Social Plasticity and Incentives”. In: Journal of Systems and Software 86.2 (Feb.
2013), pp. 520–537. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2012.09.031.
[24] E. del Val, M. Rebollo, and V. Botti. “Strategies for Cooperation Emergence in Distributed
Service Discovery”. In: Cybernetics and Systems 45.3 (Apr. 3, 2014), pp. 222–240. doi: 10.
1080/01969722.2014.894848.
[25] E. Elrufaie and D. Turner. “Bidding in P2P Content Distribution Networks Using the Light-
weight Currency Paradigm”. In: International Conference on Information Technology: Coding
and Computing, 2004. Proceedings. ITCC 2004. International Conference on Information
Technology: Coding and Computing, 2004. Proceedings. ITCC 2004. Las Vegas, NV, USA:
IEEE, 2004, 129–130 Vol.2. doi: 10.1109/itcc.2004.1286606.
[26] B. Esfandiari et al. “A Model for the Behaviors and Incentives of Users in a Decentralized
Data-Sharing Network”. In: Web Intelligence 15.3 (Aug. 11, 2017). Ed. by P. Maret, R. Akerkar,
and L. Vercouter, pp. 205–217. doi: 10.3233/web-170360.
[27] J. C. Fagan. “An Evidence-Based Review of Academic Web Search Engines, 2014-2016:
Implications for Librarians’ Practice and Research Agenda”. In: Information Technology and
Libraries 36.2 (June 2017), pp. 7–47. doi: 10.6017/ital.v36i2.9718.
[28] L. Fang et al. “Incentive Mechanism for Cooperative Authentication: An Evolutionary Game
Approach”. In: Information Sciences 527 (July 2020), pp. 369–381. doi: 10.1016/j.ins.2019.07.
030.
[29] G. D. Gonçalves et al. “Predicting the Level of Cooperation in a Peer-to-Peer Live Streaming
Application”. In: Multimedia Systems 22.2 (Mar. 2016), pp. 161–180. doi: 10.1007/s00530-
014-0434-5.
[30] A. Goswami, G. S. Parashari, and R. Gupta. “Evolutionary Stability of Reputation-Based
Incentive Mechanisms in P2P Systems”. In: IEEE Communications Letters 22.2 (Feb. 2018),
pp. 268–271. doi: 10.1109/lcomm.2017.2777854.
[31] M. Gramaglia, M. Urueña, and I. Martinez-Yelmo. “Off-Line Incentive Mechanism for Long-
Term P2P Backup Storage”. In: Computer Communications 35.12 (July 2012), pp. 1516–1526.
doi: 10.1016/j.comcom.2012.04.017.
[32] Guang Tan and S. Jarvis. “A Payment-Based Incentive and Service Differentiation Scheme
for Peer-to-Peer Streaming Broadcast”. In: IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed
Systems 19.7 (July 2008), pp. 940–953. doi: 10.1109/tpds.2007.70778.
[33] R. Gupta and A. K. Somani. “An Incentive Driven Lookup Protocol for Chord-Based Peer-
to-Peer (P2P) Networks”. In: High Performance Computing - HiPC 2004 . Ed. by L. Bougé and
V. K. Prasanna. Vol. 3296. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2004, pp. 8–18.
doi: 10.1007/978-3-540-30474-6_7.
[34] M. Gusenbauer and N. R. Haddaway. “Which Academic Search Systems Are Suitable for
Systematic Reviews or Meta-analyses? Evaluating Retrieval Qualities of Google Scholar,
PubMed, and 26 Other Resources”. In: Research Synthesis Methods 11.2 (Mar. 2020), pp. 181–
217. doi: 10.1002/jrsm.1378.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

28 Ihle et al.
[35] A. Habib and J. Chuang. “Service Differentiated Peer Selection: An Incentive Mechanism
for Peer-to-Peer Media Streaming”. In: IEEE Transactions on Multimedia 8.3 (June 2006),
pp. 610–621. doi: 10.1109/tmm.2006.870724.
[36] F. L. Haddi and M. Benchaïba. “A Survey of Incentive Mechanisms in Static and Mobile P2P
Systems”. In: Journal of Network and Computer Applications 58 (Dec. 2015), pp. 108–118.
doi: 10.1016/j.jnca.2015.09.004.
[37] T. Hadzibeganovic and C.-y. Xia. “Cooperation and Strategy Coexistence in a Tag-Based
Multi-Agent System with Contingent Mobility”. In: Knowledge-Based Systems 112 (Nov.
2016), pp. 1–13. doi: 10.1016/j.knosys.2016.08.024.
[38] D. Hales and B. Edmonds. “Applying a Socially Inspired Technique (Tags) to Improve
Cooperation in P2P Networks”. In: IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics -
Part A: Systems and Humans 35.3 (May 2005), pp. 385–395. doi: 10.1109/tsmca.2005.846399.
[39] A. Haq and Y. Faheem. “A Peer-to-Peer Communication Based Content Distribution Protocol
for Incentive-Aware Delay Tolerant Networks”. In: Wireless Networks 26.1 (Jan. 2020),
pp. 583–601. doi: 10.1007/s11276-019-02167-4.
[40] Y. He et al. “A Blockchain Based Truthful Incentive Mechanism for Distributed P2P Appli-
cations”. In: IEEE Access 6 (2018), pp. 27324–27335. doi: 10.1109/access.2018.2821705.
[41] Y. Hu et al. “Efficient and Incentive-Compatible Resource Allocation Mechanism for P2P-
Assisted Content Delivery Systems”. In: Future Generation Computer Systems 29.6 (Aug.
2013), pp. 1611–1620. doi: 10.1016/j.future.2012.08.008.
[42] Y. Hu et al. “SocialTrust: Enabling Long-Term Social Cooperation in Peer-to-Peer Services”.
In: Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications7.4 (Dec. 2014), pp. 525–538.doi: 10.1007/s12083-
013-0198-2.
[43] L. C. Hua et al. “Social Networking-Based Cooperation Mechanisms in Vehicular Ad-
Hoc Network—a Survey”. In: Vehicular Communications 10 (Oct. 2017), pp. 57–73. doi:
10.1016/j.vehcom.2017.11.001.
[44] C. Ihle and O. Sanchez. “Smart Contract-Based Role Management on the Blockchain”. In:
Business Information Systems Workshops. Ed. by W. Abramowicz and A. Paschke. Vol. 339.
Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2019, pp. 335–343. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-04849-
5_30.
[45] C. Ihle et al. “A First Step towards Content Protecting Plagiarism Detection”. In: Proc.
ACM/IEEE JCDL. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2020, pp. 341–
344. doi: 10.1145/3383583.3398620.
[46] M. Ismail, K. Qaraqe, and E. Serpedin. “Cooperation Incentives and Downlink Radio Resource
Allocation for Green Communications in a Heterogeneous Wireless Environment”. In: IEEE
Transactions on Vehicular Technology 65.3 (Mar. 2016), pp. 1627–1638. doi: 10.1109/tvt.2015.
2409191.
[47] V. Jaiman, L. Pernice, and V. Urovi. “User Incentives for Blockchain-Based Data Sharing
Platforms”. In: PLOS ONE 17.4 (Apr. 2022). Ed. by B. Guidi, e0266624. doi: 10.1371/journal.
pone.0266624.
[48] S. Jain, S.-J. Kim, and G. B. Giannakis. “Backhaul-Constrained Multicell Cooperation Lever-
aging Sparsity and Spectral Clustering”. In: IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications
15.2 (Feb. 2016), pp. 899–912. doi: 10.1109/twc.2015.2480392.
[49] J. Jiang, H. Bai, and W. Wang. “Trust and Cooperation in Peer-to-Peer Systems”. In:Grid
and Cooperative Computing . Ed. by M. Li et al. Red. by T. Kanade et al. Vol. 3032. Berlin,
Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2004, pp. 371–378. doi: 10.1007/978-3-540-24679-
4_72.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 29
[50] X. Jiang and X.-Y. Bai. “A Survey on Incentive Mechanism of Delay Tolerant Networks”.
In: 2013 10th International Computer Conference on Wavelet Active Media Technology and
Information Processing (ICCW AMTIP). 2013 10th International Computer Conference on
Wavelet Active Media Technology and Information Processing (ICCWAMTIP). Chengdu,
China: IEEE, Dec. 2013, pp. 191–197. doi: 10.1109/iccwamtip.2013.6716629.
[51] X. Jin and Y.-K. Kwok. “Coercion Builds Cooperation in Dynamic and Heterogeneous P2P
Live Streaming Networks”. In: Computer Networks 81 (Apr. 2015), pp. 1–18. doi: 10.1016/j.
comnet.2015.02.006.
[52] Jin Teng et al. “Incentive-Driven and Privacy-Preserving Message Dissemination in Large-
Scale Mobile Networks”. In: IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems 25.11
(Nov. 2014), pp. 2909–2919. doi: 10.1109/tpds.2013.158.
[53] S. D. Kamvar, M. T. Schlosser, and H. Garcia-Molina. “Incentives for Combatting Freeriding
on P2P Networks”. In: Euro-Par 2003 Parallel Processing . Ed. by H. Kosch, L. Böszörményi,
and H. Hellwagner. Vol. 2790. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2003, pp. 1273–
1279. doi: 10.1007/978-3-540-45209-6_171.
[54] J. Kang et al. “Incentive Mechanism for Reliable Federated Learning: A Joint Optimization
Approach to Combining Reputation and Contract Theory”. In: IEEE Internet of Things
Journal 6.6 (Dec. 2019), pp. 10700–10714. doi: 10.1109/jiot.2019.2940820.
[55] X. Kang and J. Yang. “Viewing Experience Optimization for Peer-to-Peer Streaming Net-
works with Credit-Based Incentive Mechanisms”. In: Computer Networks 114 (Feb. 2017),
pp. 67–79. doi: 10.1016/j.comnet.2017.01.005.
[56] M. Karakaya, İ. Körpeoğlu, and Ö. Ulusoy. “A Connection Management Protocol for Pro-
moting Cooperation in Peer-to-Peer Networks”. In: Computer Communications 31.2 (Feb.
2008), pp. 240–256. doi: 10.1016/j.comcom.2007.08.010.
[57] L. Kazatzopoulos et al. “An Incentive-based Architecture to Enable Privacy in Dynamic
Environments”. In: Internet Research 16.2 (Mar. 2006). Ed. by S. Gritzalis, pp. 171–189. doi:
10.1108/10662240610656500.
[58] M. A. Khan et al. “A Survey on the Noncooperative Environment in Smart Nodes-Based Ad
Hoc Networks: Motivations and Solutions”. In: Security and Communication Networks 2021
(May 2021). Ed. by H. Rifà-Pous, pp. 1–17. doi: 10.1155/2021/9921826.
[59] K. Kim. “Relative MTTF-Based Incentive Scheme for Availability-Based Replication in P2P
Systems”. In: IEICE Transactions on Information and Systems E93-D.12 (2010), pp. 3403–3406.
doi: 10.1587/transinf.e93.d.3403.
[60] S. Kim. “Group Bargaining Based Bitcoin Mining Scheme Using Incentive Payment Process:
Group Bargaining Based Bitcoin Mining Scheme Using Incentive Payment Process”. In:
Transactions on Emerging Telecommunications Technologies 27.11 (Nov. 2016), pp. 1486–1495.
doi: 10.1002/ett.3078.
[61] S. G. M. Koo and C. S. G. Lee. “An Incentive-Compatible Mechanism for Efficient Distribution
of Bulk Contents on Peer-to-Peer Networks”. In: (2006), p. 10. doi: 10.1007/s11235-006-
9021-1.
[62] A. Kurve et al. “Optimizing Cluster Formation in Super-Peer Networks via Local Incentive
Design”. In: Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications 8.1 (Jan. 2015), pp. 1–21. doi: 10.1007/
s12083-013-0206-6.
[63] L. Lamport, R. Shostak, and M. Pease. “The Byzantine Generals Problem”. In: ACM Trans-
actions on Programming Languages and Systems 4.3 (July 1982), pp. 382–401. doi: 10.1145/
357172.357176.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

30 Ihle et al.
[64] A. Li, Y. Liang, and D. Wu. “Utilizing Layered Taxation to Provide Incentives in P2P Streaming
Systems”. In: Journal of Systems and Software 85.8 (Aug. 2012), pp. 1749–1756. doi: 10.1016/
j.jss.2012.03.029.
[65] C. Li, B. Yu, and K. Sycara. “An Incentive Mechanism for Message Relaying in Unstructured
Peer-to-Peer Systems”. In: Electronic Commerce Research and Applications 8.6 (Nov. 2009),
pp. 315–326. doi: 10.1016/j.elerap.2009.04.007.
[66] D. Li et al. “Integrating Distributed Grids With Green Cellular Backhaul: From Competition
to Cooperation”. In: IEEE Access 6 (2018), pp. 75798–75812. doi: 10.1109/access.2018.2883316.
[67] D. Li et al. “Blockchain for Federated Learning toward Secure Distributed Machine Learning
Systems: A Systemic Survey”. In: Soft Computing 26.9 (May 2022), pp. 4423–4440. doi:
10.1007/s00500-021-06496-5.
[68] M. Li et al. “RIMNet: Recommendation Incentive Mechanism Based on Evolutionary Game
Dynamics in Peer-to-Peer Service Networks”. In: Knowledge-Based Systems 166 (Feb. 2019),
pp. 156–169. doi: 10.1016/j.knosys.2018.12.024.
[69] Lijuan Xiao et al. “Incentive-Based Scheduling for Market-Like Computational Grids”. In:
IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems 19.7 (July 2008), pp. 903–913. doi:
10.1109/tpds.2007.70791.
[70] M.-H. Lin and C.-C. Lo. “A Dynamic Incentive Pricing Scheme for Relaying Services in
Multi-Hop Cellular Networks”. In: Information Networking. Networking Technologies for
Broadband and Mobile Networks . Ed. by H.-K. Kahng and S. Goto. Red. by D. Hutchison
et al. Vol. 3090. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2004, pp. 211–220. doi:
10.1007/978-3-540-25978-7_22.
[71] W. S. Lin, H. V. Zhao, and K. R. Liu. “Incentive Cooperation Strategies for Peer-to-Peer Live
Multimedia Streaming Social Networks”. In: IEEE Transactions on Multimedia 11.3 (Apr.
2009), pp. 396–412. doi: 10.1109/tmm.2009.2012915.
[72] X. Lin et al. “Blockchain-Based Incentive Energy-Knowledge Trading in IoT: Joint Power
Transfer and AI Design”. In: IEEE Internet of Things Journal 9.16 (Aug. 2022), pp. 14685–
14698. doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2020.3024246.
[73] X. Lin et al. “Making Knowledge Tradable in Edge-AI Enabled IoT: A Consortium Blockchain-
Based Efficient and Incentive Approach”. In: IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics
15.12 (Dec. 2019), pp. 6367–6378. doi: 10.1109/tii.2019.2917307.
[74] W. Liu et al. “Enhancing Tit-for-Tat for Incentive in BitTorrent Networks”. In:Peer-to-Peer
Networking and Applications 3.1 (Mar. 2010), pp. 27–35. doi: 10.1007/s12083-009-0043-9.
[75] S. Luo et al. “Incentive-Aware Micro Computing Cluster Formation for Cooperative Fog
Computing”. In: IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications 19.4 (Apr. 2020), pp. 2643–
2657. doi: 10.1109/twc.2020.2967371.
[76] R. Ma et al. “Incentive and Service Differentiation in P2P Networks: A Game Theoretic
Approach”. In: IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking 14.5 (Oct. 2006), pp. 978–991. doi:
10.1109/tnet.2006.882904.
[77] N. Mantas et al. “Towards an Incentive-Compatible, Reputation-Based Framework for
Stimulating Cooperation in Opportunistic Networks: A Survey”. In:IET Networks 6.6 (Nov. 1,
2017), pp. 169–178. doi: 10.1049/iet-net.2017.0079.
[78] D. A. G. Manzato and N. L. S. da Fonseca. “Incentive Mechanism for the CoopNet Network”.
In: Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications 1.1 (Mar. 2008), pp. 29–44. doi: 10.1007/s12083-
007-0004-0.
[79] G. F. Marias et al. “Cooperation Enforcement Schemes for MANETs: A Survey”. In: Wireless
Communications and Mobile Computing 6.3 (May 2006), pp. 319–332. doi: 10.1002/wcm.398.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 31
[80] G. Martínez-Cánovas et al. “A Formal Model Based on Game Theory for the Analysis of
Cooperation in Distributed Service Discovery”. In: Information Sciences 326 (Jan. 2016),
pp. 59–70. doi: 10.1016/j.ins.2015.06.043.
[81] X. Meng and T. Li. “A Dynamic Load Balancing Scheme with Incentive Mechanism in
Heterogeneous Structured P2P Networks”. In: Computers & Electrical Engineering 39.7 (Oct.
2013), pp. 2124–2134. doi: 10.1016/j.compeleceng.2013.07.006.
[82] X. Meng and B. Gallagher. “The Impact of Incentive Mechanisms on Project Performance”.
In: International Journal of Project Management 30.3 (Apr. 2012), pp. 352–362. doi: 10.1016/j.
ijproman.2011.08.006.
[83] M. Meulpolder, L. Meester, and D. Epema. “The Problem of Upload Competition in Peer-to-
Peer Systems with Incentive Mechanisms: UPLOAD COMPETITION IN P2P SYSTEMS”. In:
Concurrency and Computation: Practice and Experience 25.7 (May 2013), pp. 899–917. doi:
10.1002/cpe.2856.
[84] A. Mondal, S. Kumar Madria, and M. Kitsuregawa. “E-ARL: An Economic Incentive Scheme
for Adaptive Revenue-Load-Based Dynamic Replication of Data in Mobile-P2P Networks”.
In: Distributed and Parallel Databases 28.1 (Aug. 2010), pp. 1–31. doi: 10.1007/s10619-010-
7063-6.
[85] A. Mondal, S. K. Madria, and M. Kitsuregawa. “An Economic Incentive Model for Encourag-
ing Peer Collaboration in Mobile-P2P Networks with Support for Constraint Queries”. In:
Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications 2.3 (Sept. 2009), pp. 230–251. doi: 10.1007/s12083-
009-0035-9.
[86] A. Montazeri, B. Akbari, and M. Ghanbari. “An Incentive Scheduling Mechanism for Peer-
to-Peer Video Streaming”. In: Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications 5.3 (Sept. 2012),
pp. 257–278. doi: 10.1007/s12083-011-0121-7.
[87] A. Montieri et al. “Anonymity Services Tor, I2P, JonDonym: Classifying in the Dark (Web)”.
In: IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing 17.3 (May 1, 2020), pp. 662–675.
doi: 10.1109/tdsc.2018.2804394.
[88] M. Mourby et al. “Are ‘Pseudonymised’ Data Always Personal Data? Implications of the
GDPR for Administrative Data Research in the UK”. In: Computer Law & Security Review
34.2 (Apr. 2018), pp. 222–233. doi: 10.1016/j.clsr.2018.01.002.
[89] M. Mousavi and A. Klein. “Decentralized Video Streaming in Multi-Hop Wireless Networks:
Incentive Mechanism and Energy Efficiency”. In: IEEE Access 7 (2019), pp. 51329–51345. doi:
10.1109/access.2019.2909740.
[90] S. Nakamoto. “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System”. 2009.
[91] A. Nandi et al. “Scrivener: Providing Incentives in Cooperative Content Distribution Sys-
tems”. In: Middleware 2005. Ed. by G. Alonso. Vol. 3790. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin
Heidelberg, 2005, pp. 270–291. doi: 10.1007/11587552_14.
[92] M. M. Nasab and A. Bidgoli. “Incentive Cooperation in Peer to Peer Video Streaming Using
Cooperative Game”. In: 2017.
[93] M. Neovius. “An Abstract Model for Incentive-Enhanced Trust in P2P Networks”. In: Em-
bedded and Ubiquitous Computing – EUC 2005 Workshops . Ed. by T. Enokido et al. Red. by D.
Hutchison et al. Vol. 3823. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2005, pp. 602–611.
doi: 10.1007/11596042_63.
[94] N. Padhariya, A. Mondal, and S. K. Madria. “Top-k Query Processing in Mobile-P2P Networks
Using Economic Incentive Schemes”. In: Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications 9.4 (July
2016), pp. 731–751. doi: 10.1007/s12083-015-0391-6.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

32 Ihle et al.
[95] N. Padhariya et al. “Economic Incentive-Based Brokerage Schemes for Improving Data
Availability in Mobile-P2P Networks”. In: Computer Communications 36.8 (May 2013),
pp. 861–874. doi: 10.1016/j.comcom.2013.01.012.
[96] D. Pal et al. “KeyPIn – Mitigating the Free Rider Problem in the Distributed Cloud Based
on Key, Participation, and Incentive”. In: Journal of Cloud Computing 11.1 (Dec. 2022), p. 8.
doi: 10.1186/s13677-022-00280-y.
[97] T. G. Papaioannou and G. D. Stamoulis. “Reputation-Based Policies That Provide the Right
Incentives in Peer-to-Peer Environments”. In: Computer Networks 50.4 (Mar. 2006), pp. 563–
578. doi: 10.1016/j.comnet.2005.07.024.
[98] G. Paré and S. Kitsiou. “Chapter 9 Methods for Literature Reviews”. In:Handbook of eHealth
Evaluation: An Evidence-based Approach . Ed. by F. Lau and C. Kuziemsky. University of
Victoria, Feb. 27, 2017.
[99] K. Park, S. Pack, and T. “ Kwon. “An Adaptive Peer-to-Peer Live Streaming System with
Incentives for Resilience”. In: Computer Networks 54.8 (June 2010), pp. 1316–1327. doi:
10.1016/j.comnet.2009.10.022.
[100] F. Pianese et al. “PULSE: An Adaptive, Incentive-Based, Unstructured P2P Live Streaming
System”. In: IEEE Transactions on Multimedia 9.8 (Dec. 2007), pp. 1645–1660. doi: 10.1109/
tmm.2007.907466.
[101] J. Rius et al. “Incentive Mechanism for Scheduling Jobs in a Peer-to-Peer Computing System”.
In: Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory 25 (June 2012), pp. 36–55. doi: 10.1016/j.simpat.
2012.02.007.
[102] F. Rowe. “What Literature Review Is Not: Diversity, Boundaries and Recommendations”. In:
European Journal of Information Systems 23.3 (May 2014), pp. 241–255. doi: 10.1057/ejis.
2014.7.
[103] A. Rubinstein. “Perfect Equilibrium in a Bargaining Model”. In:Econometrica 50.1 (Jan. 1982),
p. 97. doi: 10.2307/1912531. JSTOR: 1912531.
[104] N. Samian et al. “Cooperation Stimulation Mechanisms for Wireless Multihop Networks: A
Survey”. In: Journal of Network and Computer Applications 54 (Aug. 2015), pp. 88–106. doi:
10.1016/j.jnca.2015.04.012.
[105] M. Sayit et al. “Adaptive, Incentive and Scalable Dynamic Tree Overlay for P2P Live Video
Streaming”. In: Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications 9.6 (Nov. 2016), pp. 1074–1088. doi:
10.1007/s12083-015-0390-7.
[106] R. Schollmeier. “A Definition of Peer-to-Peer Networking for the Classification of Peer-to-
Peer Architectures and Applications”. In: Proceedings First International Conference on Peer-
to-Peer Computing. First International Conference on Peer-to-Peer Computing. Linkoping,
Sweden: IEEE Comput. Soc, 2002, pp. 101–102. doi: 10.1109/p2p.2001.990434.
[107] Shady Attia, director. Systematic Literature Review. Feb. 1, 2020. url: https://www.youtube.
com/watch?v=FvhXhzCQRzY&feature=youtu.be&t=1093 (visited on 11/26/2020).
[108] N. Sharghivand, F. Derakhshan, and N. Siasi. “A Comprehensive Survey on Auction Mecha-
nism Design for Cloud/Edge Resource Management and Pricing”. In: IEEE Access 9 (2021),
pp. 126502–126529. doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3110914.
[109] B. Shen et al. “An Equity-Based Incentive Mechanism for Persistent Virtual World Content
Service”. In: Service Oriented Computing and Applications 14.4 (Dec. 2020), pp. 227–241. doi:
10.1007/s11761-020-00297-8.
[110] B. M. C. Silva et al. “Cooperative Strategies for Challenged Networks and Applications: A
Survey”. In: IEEE Systems Journal 11.4 (Dec. 2017), pp. 2749–2760. doi: 10.1109/jsyst.2015.
2436927.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 33
[111] N. Singha and Y. N. Singh. “New Incentive Mechanism to Enhance Cooperation in Wireless
P2P Networks”. In: Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications 14.3 (May 2021), pp. 1218–1228.
doi: 10.1007/s12083-021-01086-6.
[112] M. Sirivianos, Xiaowei Yang, and S. Jarecki. “Robust and Efficient Incentives for Cooperative
Content Distribution”. In: IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking 17.6 (Dec. 2009), pp. 1766–
1779. doi: 10.1109/tnet.2009.2021655.
[113] W. Sun et al. “Joint Resource Allocation and Incentive Design for Blockchain-Based Mobile
Edge Computing”. In: IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications 19.9 (Sept. 2020),
pp. 6050–6064. doi: 10.1109/twc.2020.2999721.
[114] A. S. Tanenbaum and M. van Steen. Distributed Systems: Principles and Paradigms . Upper
Saddle River, N.J: Prentice Hall, 2002. 803 pp.
[115] C. Tian et al. “Trust-Based Incentive Mechanism to Motivate Cooperation in Hybrid P2P
Networks”. In: Computer Networks 73 (Nov. 2014), pp. 244–255. doi: 10.1016/j.comnet.2014.
08.010.
[116] D. A. Turner and K. W. Ross. “A Lightweight Currency Paradigm for the P2P Resource
Market”. In: In Proc. 7th International Conference on Electronic Commerce Research . 2004.
[117] G. Vakili and S. Khorsandi. “Coordination of Cooperation Policies in a Peer-to-Peer System
Using Swarm-Based RL”. In: Journal of Network and Computer Applications 35.2 (Mar. 2012),
pp. 713–722. doi: 10.1016/j.jnca.2011.11.004.
[118] B.-C. Wang, A. L. H. Chow, and L. Golubchik. “A Comprehensive Study of the Use of
Advertisements as Incentives in P2P Streaming Systems”. In: Peer-to-Peer Networking and
Applications 7.4 (Dec. 2014), pp. 555–571. doi: 10.1007/s12083-012-0155-5.
[119] S. Wang et al. “Quantum Game Analysis on Extrinsic Incentive Mechanisms for P2P Ser-
vices”. In: IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems 31.1 (Jan. 1, 2020), pp. 159–
170. doi: 10.1109/tpds.2019.2933416.
[120] W. Wang and B. Li. “To Play or to Control: A Game-Based Control-Theoretic Approach to
Peer-to-Peer Incentive Engineering”. In: Quality of Service — IWQoS 2003 . Ed. by K. Jeffay,
I. Stoica, and K. Wehrle. Vol. 2707. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2003,
pp. 174–192. doi: 10.1007/3-540-44884-5_10.
[121] Y. Wang, M.-C. Chuah, and Y. Chen. “Incentive Based Data Sharing in Delay Tolerant Mobile
Networks”. In: IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications 13.1 (Jan. 2014), pp. 370–381.
doi: 10.1109/twc.2013.120413.130670.
[122] Z. Wang. “A Swarm Intelligence Learning Model of Adaptive Incentive Protocols for P2P
Networks”. In: International Journal of Communication Networks and Distributed Systems
20.2 (2018), p. 168. doi: 10.1504/ijcnds.2018.089770.
[123] S. G. Weber. On Transaction Pseudonyms with Implicit Attributes . 568. 2012.
[124] L. Wei, J. Wu, and C. Long. “A Blockchain-Based Hybrid Incentive Model for Crowdsensing”.
In: Electronics 9.2 (Jan. 2020), p. 215. doi: 10.3390/electronics9020215.
[125] Z. Wei and S. Yu. “Binomial Distribution Based Reputation for WSNs: A Comprehensive
Survey”. In: KSII Transactions on Internet and Information Systems 15.10 (Oct. 2021). doi:
10.3837/tiis.2021.10.017.
[126] Weijie Wu, R. T. B. Ma, and J. C. S. Lui. “Distributed Caching via Rewarding: An Incentive
Scheme Design in P2P-VoD Systems”. In: IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed
Systems 25.3 (Mar. 2014), pp. 612–621. doi: 10.1109/tpds.2013.94.
[127] A. Whitby, A. Jøsang, and J. Indulska. “Filtering Out Unfair Ratings in Bayesian Reputation
Systems”. In: (2005), p. 12.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

34 Ihle et al.
[128] W.-C. Wong et al. “A Novel Bilateral Incentive Mechanism Based on Social Relation and
Evolutionary Game Theory”. In: Journal of Internet Technology (2019). doi: 10 . 3966 /
160792642019092005011.
[129] D. G. Wood. Ethereum: A Secure Decentralised Generalised Transaction Ledger . 2014, p. 32.
[130] C. Wu et al. “Auction-Based P2P VoD Streaming: Incentives and Optimal Scheduling”. In:
ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and Applications 8 (1S Feb.
2012), pp. 1–22. doi: 10.1145/2089085.2089091.
[131] D. Wu, Y. Cai, and J. Wang. “Cooperation Policy Selection for Energy-Constrained Ad Hoc
Networks Using Correlated Equilibrium”. In: IEEE Communications Letters 16.3 (Mar. 2012),
pp. 349–351. doi: 10.1109/lcomm.2012.012412.112200.
[132] T.-Y. Wu et al. “Incentive Mechanism for P2P File Sharing Based on Social Network and
Game Theory”. In: Journal of Network and Computer Applications 41 (May 2014), pp. 47–55.
doi: 10.1016/j.jnca.2013.10.006.
[133] X. Xiao et al. “How Much to Share: A Repeated Game Model for Peer-to-Peer Streaming
under Service Differentiation Incentives”. In: IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed
Systems 23.2 (Feb. 2012), pp. 288–295. doi: 10.1109/tpds.2011.167.
[134] Xin Kang and Yongdong Wu. “Incentive Mechanism Design for Heterogeneous Peer-to-Peer
Networks: A Stackelberg Game Approach”. In: IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing 14.5
(May 1, 2015), pp. 1018–1030. doi: 10.1109/tmc.2014.2343628.
[135] Q. Xu, Z. Su, and S. Guo. “A Game Theoretical Incentive Scheme for Relay Selection Services
in Mobile Social Networks”. In: IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology 65.8 (Aug. 2016),
pp. 6692–6702. doi: 10.1109/tvt.2015.2472289.
[136] Y. Xue, B. Li, and K. Nahrstedt. “Channel-Relay Price Pair: Towards Arbitrating Incentives
in Wirelessad Hoc Networks”. In: Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing 6.2 (Mar.
2006), pp. 235–245. doi: 10.1002/wcm.383.
[137] L. T. Yang, ed. Autonomic and Trusted Computing: Third International Conference, ATC 2006,
Wuhan, China, September 3-6, 2006: Proceedings . 4158. Berlin ; New York: Springer, 2006.
613 pp. doi: 10.1007/11839569.
[138] Yang Zhang et al. “Auction Approaches for Resource Allocation in Wireless Systems: A
Survey”. In: IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials 15.3 (23–2013), pp. 1020–1041. doi:
10.1109/surv.2012.110112.00125.
[139] B. Yu and M. P. Singh. “Incentive Mechanisms for Peer-to-Peer Systems”. In: Agents and
Peer-to-Peer Computing. Ed. by G. Moro, C. Sartori, and M. P. Singh. Red. by G. Goos, J.
Hartmanis, and J. van Leeuwen. Vol. 2872. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg,
2004, pp. 77–88. doi: 10.1007/978-3-540-25840-7_9.
[140] Z. Yu, X. Liu, and G. Wang. “A Survey of Consensus and Incentive Mechanism in Blockchain
Derived from P2P”. In: 2018 IEEE 24th International Conference on Parallel and Distributed
Systems (ICPADS). 2018 IEEE 24th International Conference on Parallel and Distributed
Systems (ICPADS). Singapore, Singapore: IEEE, Dec. 2018, pp. 1010–1015. doi: 10.1109/
padsw.2018.8645047.
[141] K. Zhang and N. Antonopoulos. “A Novel Bartering Exchange Ring Based Incentive Mecha-
nism for Peer-to-Peer Systems”. In: Future Generation Computer Systems 29.1 (Jan. 2013),
pp. 361–369. doi: 10.1016/j.future.2011.06.005.
[142] Q. Zhang, L. Zhu, and X. Yang. “A New Incentive Policy for Improving Data Service in
P2P Networks”. In: Wireless Personal Communications 103.1 (Nov. 2018), pp. 231–245. doi:
10.1007/s11277-018-5438-6.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 35
[143] Z. Zhang et al. “An Efficient Incentive Scheme with a Distributed Authority Infrastructure
in Peer-to-Peer Networks”. In: Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing 72.12 (Dec.
2012), pp. 1741–1752. doi: 10.1016/j.jpdc.2012.08.003.
[144] Z. Zhang et al. “Refiner: A Reliable Incentive-Driven Federated Learning System Powered
by Blockchain”. In: Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment 14.12 (July 2021), pp. 2659–2662.
doi: 10.14778/3476311.3476313.
[145] B. Q. Zhao, J. C. S. Lui, and D.-M. Chiu. “A Mathematical Framework for Analyzing Adaptive
Incentive Protocols in P2P Networks”. In: IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking 20.2 (Apr.
2012), pp. 367–380. doi: 10.1109/tnet.2011.2161770.
[146] H. Zhao, X. Yang, and X. Li. “An Incentive Mechanism to Reinforce Truthful Reports in
Reputation Systems”. In: Journal of Network and Computer Applications 35.3 (May 2012),
pp. 951–961. doi: 10.1016/j.jnca.2011.03.011.
[147] S. Zhong, J. Chen, and Y. Yang. “Sprite: A Simple, Cheat-Proof, Credit-Based System for
Mobile Ad-Hoc Networks”. In: IEEE INFOCOM 2003. Twenty-Second Annual Joint Confer-
ence of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies (IEEE Cat. No.03CH37428) . IEEE
INFOCOM 2003. Twenty-Second Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Com-
munications Societies. Vol. 3. San Francisco, CA, USA: IEEE, 2003, pp. 1987–1997. doi:
10.1109/infcom.2003.1209220.
[148] J. Zou and L. Chen. “Joint Bandwidth Allocation, Data Scheduling and Incentives for Scalable
Video Streaming over Peer-to-Peer Networks”. In: Multimedia Tools and Applications 73.3
(Dec. 2014), pp. 1269–1289. doi: 10.1007/s11042-013-1621-7.
[149] F. Zuo and W. Zhang. “A Group Strategy-Proof Incentive Approach for Eliminating Selfish
Behaviors in Peer-to-Peer File Allocation: STRATEGY-PROOF APPROACH FOR OVERCOM-
ING P2P SELFISH REPLICA ALLOCATION”. In: International Journal of Communication
Systems 27.12 (Dec. 2014), pp. 3545–3564. doi: 10.1002/dac.2556.
GLOSSARY
AB Abstract. 5, 35
AK Author Keywords. 5, 35
AWS Amazon Web Services. 35
CBIM Cluster-Based Incentive Mechanism. 35, 63
CDN Content Delivery Network. 16, 35, 54
CMDP Constrained Markov Decision Process. 35, 46
DBLP Digital Bibliography & Library Project. 4, 35
DHT Distributed Hash Table. 35, 45, 47, 56, 60
DLT Distributed Ledger Technology. 3, 8, 10, 19, 24, 25, 35
DPoS Delegated Proof-of-Stake. 10, 35, 49
DTN Delay-Tolerant Network. 3, 6, 7, 19, 35, 37, 46, 65
EIB Economic Incentive-based Brokerage. 35
ENISA European Network and Information Security Agency. 35
FL Federated Learning. 6, 35
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

36 Ihle et al.
GCP Google Cloud Platform. 35
GDPR General Data Protection Regulation. 13, 21, 35
GMTP Global Media Transmission Protocol. 35, 54
Iot Internet of Things. 35, 49
IPFS Interplanetary File System. 35
KP KeyWords Plus. 5, 35
KYC Know Your Customer. 14, 35
MANET Mobile Ad-Hoc Network. 3, 6–8, 19, 35, 37, 51, 57, 65
MCC Multi-Cell Cooperation. 3, 19, 35
MCC Micro Computing Clusters. 35, 60
MEC Mobile Edge Computing. 3, 19, 35
MSN Mobile Social Network. 3, 19, 35, 51
MTTF Mean Time To Failure. 19, 35
OppNet Opportunistic Network. 3, 6, 35
P2P peer-to-peer. 2, 3, 5, 6, 10, 15, 16, 24, 35, 51, 54, 55
PBFT Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance. 10, 35
PCMP Peer-to-peer Connection Management Protocol. 35, 38
PoB Proof of Burn. 10, 35
PoET Proof of Elapsed Time. 10, 35
PoS Proof-of-Stake. 10, 35
PoW Proof-of-Work. 10, 35
SP Super Peer. 12, 35
TI Title. 5, 35
ToB Tickets of Bits. 16, 35
TS Topic Search. 5, 35
TTL Time-To-Live. 35, 40, 51, 62, 65
VANET Vehicular Ad-Hoc Network. 7, 8, 35
VCG Vickrey–Clarke–Groves auction. 11, 16, 24, 25, 35
WC Web of Science Category. 5, 35
WoS Web of Science. 4, 5, 8, 35
WSN Wireless Sensor Network. 6, 35
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 37
A SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIALS
A.1 Potential Biases of the Review
The quality of any literature review heavily depends on the methodical biases [107]. We aim to
identify and mitigate biases wherever possible to improve our review quality. We state our identified
biases transparently to make readers aware of any shortcomings.
Publication Bias is mitigated by comparing and selecting a search system with the most suited
corpus for our research question, as described in Section 2.1. However, Web of Science’s curation
process is nontransparent, leaving the possibility that relevant papers are not included in our
review. We accept the remaining blindspot as the answers to our research questions do not depend
on individual articles.
We mitigate Citation Bias in our review by analyzing all retried articles which match our search
term based on topic, content, and field of research. Search engine choice plays an essential role in
preventing citation bias. Google Scholar, for example, introduces citation bias as it delivers often
cited articles, even if they do not fit the search term perfectly [27].
Language Bias is a common bias in literature reviews. We only included non-English articles
if an English abstract was provided, as our search term matches English results only. Grammar,
punctuation, and spelling problems may arise as different conventions prevail in different English-
speaking regions. Depending on the region, the word “decentralized” could also be spelled with an
“s”. However, by comparing the result sets of our primary literature search term using the alternative
spelling, we confirmed that the spelling did not have any effect. Grammar and punctuation are
irrelevant to our search terms.
Outcome Reporting Bias sets the scope toward a specific outcome. For our use-case, e.g.,
we aim for automatable results and apply an incentive mechanism to control user behavior. We
willingly accept to miss implementations that rely on intrinsic motivation or other control methods.
Further, we dismiss incentive mechanisms that do not specifically state a dependency on resources,
bandwidth, or hardware to focus on digital and computational tasks.
A.2 Case Example: Incentive Selection
When picking the right incentive for the desired incentive type, we have to consider the incentive
mechanism properties. An academic peer-to-peer network would leverage the existing network
topology of universities and hence, does not need to address mobile peers and the associated
change in bandwidth or connectivity like DTN or MANET. Further, we assume a single peer to
be provided by each academic institution to keep individual costs low. Thus, due to immobile
nodes, the network topology for academic peer-to-peer incentives can be considered fairly stable.
Regarding the openness of the academic incentive mechanism, it is undesirable to implement a
private consortium or permissioned network to match our scalability goals. The public design
induces the complexity of mitigating identity-based attacks like Sybil attacks and white-washing
attacks by tracking user identities and using message authentication. No anonymity/pseudonym
requirements must be in place for academic peer-to-peer incentives, as no personal information
needs to be processed. The incentivized service, on the other hand, has to protect personal-processed
data and should provide anonymity/pseudonymity for users and data. False information attacks
play an important role in our use case, as an illegitimate reputation could be built. We must pick
a reputation-based incentive that is resistant or mitigates the risk of false information attacks.
From a user’s point of view, a multitasking-capable incentive would always be desirable, as the
same incentive mechanism could handle multiple different participatory actions. However, this is a
weak requirement, as a set of incentives could substitute this. We reduce the number of options for
reputation mechanisms by focusing on general peer-to-peer network incentives with application
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

38 Ihle et al.
area of computing or applicable to any application area. This leaves us with the thirteen reputation
mechanisms [101, 122, 30, 49, 53, 93, 68, 115, 38, 143, 142, 18, 141, 56]. Out of these mechanisms,
we discard the ones which are not open for everyone to participate in and the ones with little
information on attack resistance. We gain candidates that have mitigated or are resistant against
at least three attack types [115, 18, 56, 143]. Additionally, we discarded Zhang et al., as it uses a
combination of reputation and virtual currency, leavening us with Tian et al., Chang et al., and
Karakaya et al.
Tian et al. [115] propose SuperTrust, a trust-based incentive mechanism for hybrid peer-to-peer
networks. The approach uses a referral-based reputation system for peer selection. Super-peers
accumulate all reputation scores and provide a rating for regular peers to supplement their own
data. Regular peers are grouped by interest and assigned a single super-peer.
Chang et al. [18] propose a recommendation-based inventive mechanism for peer-to-peer systems.
Recommendation information on the level of participation is exchanged and supplemented with the
transaction history of the requesting participant to form a reputation value. A peer considers both
its own past interaction and the recommendations of other peers for its peer selection. A credibility
score helps to set each recommendation’s quality and helps filter for false recommendations.
Karakaya et al. [56] propose an incentive to alleviate query traffic free-riding behavior in peer-
to-peer networks. Free-riding is often tolerated up to a certain threshold, so participants can use
resources initially before they start contributing. The incentive mechanism tries to maximize the
connectivity of network contributors and simultaneously isolates free-riding peers that exceed the
defined threshold. The approach splits the connections of a particular peer to another one in an IN
and OUT part. The IN part represents query requests sent to the particular peer, and the OUT part
represents queries that this peer issues against others. The reputation value of the connected peers
is calculated according to the observed contribution. If this observed contribution does not hold a
certain threshold, peers connect to a different, actively contributing peer.
The super-peer-based design of Tian et al. [115] is not suitable for our use case, as we aim for
equality between all peers to maximize decentralization. The method of Karakaya et al. [56] was
published in 2007 and introduced the Peer-to-peer Connection Management Protocol (PCMP) to
prevent free-riding and promote contributions to the network. The method elegantly calculates a
subjective reputation for each peer without generating overhead of reputation exchange. On the
other hand, Chang et al. [18] introduce overhead. The overhead of gossiping reputation measure-
ments to other peers. Gossiping reputation to other peers greatly reduces free-riding effectively, as
peers would even deny initial connection attempts with non-cooperating peers. Further, Chang et
al. introduced an algorithm that reduces the message overhead for gossiping over time. We hence
decide on Chang et al. for our academic peer-to-peer network.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 39
A.3 Supplemental Categorization of Primary Research Publications
Table 9. Overvief of the attack vectors, task management, and contribution model properties of incentive
meachnisms presented in primary research publications. Fields are left blank if the publications provide
insufficent details on the property.
FI: False Information attack; SC: Sniffing&Confidentiality attack; RA: Routing Attack; IA: Identity Attack; SA: Selfish Attack;
CA: Collusion Attack | AC: Access Control; AN: Anonymity; LNK: Linkability; CONF: Confidentiality | TA: Task Assignment;
MT: Multitasking; OPN: Openess | [V: Valuable; R: Resistent; M: Mitigated; Y: Yes; N: No; RE: Reactive; PR: Proactive;
EF: Entrance Fee; k: k-anonymity; PS: Pseudonym]
Ref Year Authors FI SC RA IA SA CA AC AN LNK CONF TA MT OPN Notes
[47] 2022 Jaiman et al. - V V R M M - PS Y - PR N Y Smart contracts to conduct double auc-
tions for file sharing
[72] 2022 Lin et al. M R - M R M Y PS Y - PR Y N Smart contracts to conduct double auc-
tions for edge learning and wireless
charging
[113] 2020 Sun et al. - V V R M M - PS Y - RE Y - Smart contracts to conduct double auc-
tions
[28] 2020 Fang et al. R R - R R - - 𝑘 Y - RE Y Y Task-based english auction depending
on resource budget and task complex-
ity
[19] 2020 Chen et al. R R - R M V Y N Y - RE - N Calculating a credibility score which
all participants want to maximize
[75] 2020 Luo et al. - - - M - - - - Y - RE Y Y Organizes peers in micro computing
clusters
[54] 2019 Kang et al. V R - - - - Y - Y N RE N N Reputation is calculated using each
node’s subjective interaction history
[39] 2020 Haq and
Faheem
- - - - M - - N - - RE/PR N - Double Auction using a digital cur-
rency for relaying file chunks
[128] 2019 Wong et al. - - - R R - Y N Y - - - - Uses BitTorrent tracker nodes to or-
chestrate bandwidth assignments and
restrains free-riders and generally ma-
licious nodes
[89] 2019 Mousavi and
Klein
- - - R R - - N Y - RE/PR N Y Payments based on received video
quality with taxation scheme
[7] 2018 Aslani et al. - - - R R - - PS Y - RE/PR N Y TOBIM - a dynamic payment of
chunks modelled as a constrained
Markov decision process
[73] 2019 Lin et al. V V - - V - Y PS Y N RE Y N Knowledge trading market using a
consortium blockchain coin
[40] 2018 He et al. M R R - R M - - Y Y RE - - Pricing strategy using cryptocurrency
[55] 2017 Kang and Yang V - V - V V - - - - RE N - Credit-based upload incentives
[26] 2017 Esfandiari et al. - - - - R R - - Y - PR Y - Collaborative filtering to select partic-
ipants with similar interest on files
[134] 2015 Xin Kang and
Yongdong Wu
V - - - V V N - Y - RE N Y Uploaders set a fixed bandwidth
price; Downloaders combine sources
to achieve optimal bandwidths
[115] 2014 Tian et al. M - - - M M - - - - RE N Y Regular peers are grouped by interest,
and assigned a super-peer
[52] 2014 Jin Teng et al. M R - M - - Y - - Y RE N Y AREX, a peer-to-peer black listing
mechanism to penalize misbehavior
[18] 2014 Chang et al. M - - - M M N - Y N RE N Y A peer considers both, its own past
interaction, and the recommendations
of other peers for its peer selection
[121] 2014 Wang et al. - - M - - - - - - - RE N Y MuRIS considers historical encounters
to estimate the paths to participants
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

40 Ihle et al.
Ref Year Authors FI SC RA IA SA CA AC AN LNK CONF TA MT OPN Notes
[83] 2013 Meulpolder
et al.
- - V - V - Y - - N PR N Y Ratio-based upload selection mecha-
nism prioritizes peers with the lowest
sharing ratios among the known peers
of each participant
[10] 2013 Belmonte et al. R - - V R M N - Y N RE N Y Forms coalitions by responsive-
ness/QoS
[141] 2013 Zhang and
Antonopoulos
- - - - R - N - Y - PR N Y Peers use their local transaction in-
formation to identify and block free-
riders
[31] 2012 Gramaglia et al. M R M M M - Y N Y Y RE N N Delayed payments through digital
cheques issued by banks
[130] 2012 Wu et al. - - - - M M N - Y - PR N Y Media block auctions where nodes
might accumulate budget over time
[84] 2010 Mondal et al. - - - - V - - - - - PR N Y Bid-based data item allocation that
pays replicating peers with virtual cur-
rency
[92] 2017 Nasab and
Bidgoli
- - - V R - N PS Y Y RE/PR N Y Utility function defines the reciprocal
reputation mechanism
[135] 2016 Xu et al. V - - - R - N Y N Y RE/PR N Y A virtual currency that is used to pay
for relaying service. A metric incorpo-
rates node buffer, node energy and the
Time-To-Live (TTL) of the message to
select peer
[94] 2016 Padhariya et al. R - - - - - N Y N Y RE/PR N Y Three virtual currency schemes under
the umbrella of their “E-Top” system
[62] 2015 Kurve et al. - - - - - - N Y N Y - - - Chooses peers by physical proximity,
semantic proximity, or at random
[42] 2014 Hu et al. R - - R R R N N Y N RE/PR Y Y Cooperation groups by common inter-
ests
[22] 2014 De Sales et al. R - - R R - Y N Y N PR N Y Peers gain “Ticket of Bits” for provid-
ing upload bandwidth
[24] 2014 del Val et al. V - M R R V N Y N N RE/PR Y Y Cost, benefit and reward scheme using
virtual currency
[126] 2014 Weijie Wu et al. - - - - R - Y - - - RE/PR N Y A pricing scheme for video content
provider
[95] 2013 Padhariya et al. - - - - R - N Y N - RE/PR Y Y Economic incentive-based brokerage
where brokers maintain an index of
data items stored at other peers
[143] 2012 Zhang et al. R - - R R R N PS Y N RE/PR Y Y An authority penalizes peers and
falsely-penalized provider will not
serve wrong accusers anymore
[101] 2012 Rius et al. - - - - R R N PS Y N RE/PR Y Y Uses super-peers that have an associ-
ated reputation value
[99] 2010 Park et al. - - V - V V N - Y - PR N Y Each peer optimizes its communica-
tion partners by checking the TTL of
each video stream package and adds
connections to random peers to create
redundancy
[3] 2010 Allen et al. - - - M M - N - Y N PR N Y Uses a trust level based on previous tit-
for-tat cooperation that groups nodes
into social networks of similarly coop-
erative parties
[112] 2009 Sirivianos et al. - V - - M - N PS Y N PR N Y Dandelion, a hybrid approach of recip-
rocate cooperation and a centralized
credit-based reward mechanism
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 41
Ref Year Authors FI SC RA IA SA CA AC AN LNK CONF TA MT OPN Notes
[65] 2009 Li et al. - - V - M M N - Y N PR N Y Micro-payment incentive using a bank
to manage the virtual currency
[85] 2009 Mondal et al. - - - - R - N - Y N RE N Y ConQuer, an auction mechanism with
brokers selling routing information to
mobile peers
[71] 2009 Lin et al. R R R M R - N - Y N RE N Y A game-theoretic framework with
equalized reciprocity
[69] 2008 Lijuan Xiao
et al.
- - - - M - N - Y N RE Y Y A marketplace-based incentive that
tracks the success rate of jobs in a com-
puting grid
[32] 2008 Guang Tan and
Jarvis
- - V - R V N PS Y N RE N Y A first-price-auction-like procedure
for data transmissions using virtual
credits
[100] 2007 Pianese et al. - V - - - - N PS Y N PR N Y Prioritizes resource usage in the mesh
network over fully reciprocal fairness
[61] 2006 Koo and Lee V V R - M - N PS Y N PR N Y Peers track the average received data
from other peers and distribute their
own capacity accordingly
[76] 2006 Ma et al. - - - - R M - - - - PR N Y Nodes self organize in groups of differ-
ent contribution levels
[137] 2006 Yang - - - - M - - - - - PR N Y Uses a trust value composed of the con-
tributed upstream traffic and online
duration
[91] 2005 Nandi et al. - V R - M R N PS Y N PR N Y Blacklists peers if service is refused
selfishly
[30] 2018 Goswami et al. - - - M R - N - Y - PR N EF Tracks resource allocation
[118] 2014 Wang et al. - - M - R M N - Y - RE N - Varies service quality depending on
the contributions each peer is making
[81] 2013 Meng and Li R - V - R - - PS Y - RE N Y Every node provides its thresholds
consistent to it capabilities to neigh-
boring peers
[16] 2013 Centeno et al. - - - - R - - - Y - PR Y - Super peers rank available actions and
set positive and negative incentives ac-
cordingly
[86] 2012 Montazeri et al. - - - - R M N PS Y - PR N Y Peers track each others’ contribu-
tion amounts and share the measured
amounts with neighbors
[64] 2012 Li et al. M - - - R - N PS Y N PR N Y Peers organize in different Quality of
Experience layers depending on their
latency demands
[146] 2012 Zhao et al. V - - - R - N PS Y - RE - - Reported reputation information gets
rewarded with a payment scheme
[117] 2012 Vakili and
Khorsandi
- - - - R R N - Y N - - - Coordinates the upload-to-download
ratio
[78] 2008 Manzato and
da Fonseca
- - - - R - N PS Y N RE/PR Y Y Nodes trade outgoing bandwidth for
incoming bandwidth in a ratio that is
determined via a cooperation-duration
benefiting tax
[56] 2008 Karakaya et al. R - R V R - N PS Y N RE/PR Y Y If an observed contribution value does
not hold a certain threshold the peers
connect to a different peer
[35] 2006 Habib and
Chuang
- - - - R - N PS Y N RE/PR Y Y Limits the peer selection choices for
free-riders according to their repudia-
tion score
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

42 Ihle et al.
Ref Year Authors FI SC RA IA SA CA AC AN LNK CONF TA MT OPN Notes
[136] 2006 Xue et al. - - - - R R N - - - RE N Y Resource allocation scheme that con-
siders individual relaying costs and
shared wireless channel bandwidth
[93] 2005 Neovius - - - R R - N PS Y - - - - Trust in a peer progressively increas-
ing access to distributed resources
[139] 2004 Yu and Singh - - - - R - N PS Y - RE/PR Y Y Considers the quality of services pro-
vided by neighbors and adjust pay-
ments accordingly
[33] 2004 Gupta and
Somani
- - R - R - N - - - RE/PR Y Y Secure Vickrey Auction to determine
resource prices ina ChordDHT
[120] 2003 Wang and Li - - - - M - N PS Y N RE/PR Y Y Dynamic payoff function that mod-
els cooperation as a Cournot Oligopoly
game
[53] 2003 Kamvar et al. - - - M R - N PS Y N RE/PR Y Y A reputation score defines the band-
width percentage a peer receives
[20] 2006 Cheng et al. - - - - R - N - - - RE/PR Y Y Auction cooperation incentive that dif-
ferentiates peers by bandwidth and
tries to benefit slow peers
[74] 2010 Liu et al. - - - - R - N PS Y N RE/PR Y Y Uses generosity that excuses misbe-
havior to a certain degree and maxi-
mizes interaction time of two parties
due to initial payoff limitations
[133] 2012 Xiao et al. - - - - R - N PS Y N RE/PR Y Y Uses fixed time rounds where each sub-
sequent round incorporates peer con-
tribution information of the previous
round to determine for how much re-
sources that peer is eligible
[57] 2006 Kazatzopoulos
et al.
M R - M R M N PS Y N RE/PR N Y Reputation metric that tracks the de-
gree of collaboration by issuing credits
for answered requests and denials for
unanswered secret sharing requests
[60] 2016 Kim - - - - - - - Y - - - - - Reciprocal grouping of users to bal-
ance efficiency and fairness
[46] 2016 Ismail et al. - - - - - - - N Y - - - - Joint radio resource allocation strategy
for physically close-by peers
[148] 2014 Zou and Chen - - - - - - N - Y - RE N Y Credit-based content-aware auction al-
gorithm tracking the marginal net util-
ity
[15] 2013 Carra et al. - - - - - - N PS Y - RE/PR N Y Tit-for-tat incentive that asses credits
to track participation in eMule
[41] 2013 Hu et al. - - - - - - N - Y N PR Y Y The tit-for-tat strategy dynamically
compensates resource-poor peers by
taxing the contingents of resource-rich
peers
[23] 2013 del Val et al. - - - - - - N Y N N RE/PR N Y Social plasticity allows nodes to
change their neighbors if they detect
non-cooperative peers
[38] 2005 Hales and
Edmonds
- - - - - - N - Y N PR Y Y Participants organize themselves in
different groups depending on their
participation level
[70] 2004 Lin and Lo - - - - - - Y N Y - RE N - Dynamic prices that are set by super
peers (base station providers)
[132] 2014 Wu et al. - - - - - - N PS Y - RE Y Y Nodes bid on or offer bandwidth in
an auction using a centrally managed
token
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 43
Ref Year Authors FI SC RA IA SA CA AC AN LNK CONF TA MT OPN Notes
[109] 2020 Shen et al. - - - - - - - - - - RE N - Forms replica groups for different lev-
els of storage reliability
[68] 2019 Li et al. - - - - - - - - - - RE Y - Uses Reciprocity-based perfect infor-
mation (PRIM) and imperfect informa-
tion (IRIM)
[51] 2015 Jin and Kwok - - - - - - - - - - RE N Y Reputation penalties designed for
peers with different bandwidth capaci-
ties
[149] 2014 Zuo and Zhang - - - - - - - - - - RE N Y Per-replica payouts for nodes that
state their utility honestly
[97] 2006 Papaioannou
and Stamoulis
- - - - - - - - - - PR Y Y Deploys policies for provider selection
(highest reputation, comparable reputa-
tion, and black list)
[122] 2018 Wang - - - - - - - - - - RE - - Each peer can act as either a coopera-
tor, reciprocator, or defector
[142] 2018 Zhang et al. - - - - - - - - - - RE - - Incentive policy where peers refuse to
provide service for defectors
[66] 2018 Li et al. - - - - - - - - - - RE/PR - - Decentralized market setting for dis-
tributed energy sources
[37] 2016 Hadzibeganovic
and Xia
- - - - - - - - Y - - - - Evolutionary games using tag-based
multi-agent system with contingent
mobility
[105] 2016 Sayit et al. - - - - - - - - - - RE - - Multicast tree framework for video
streaming incentivized by hierarchical
clusters
[29] 2016 Gonçalves et al. R - - - - - - - - - - - - Non-linear regression model to pre-
dict cooperation in video streaming by
graph-based OUT-degree metric with
measures against false information at-
tacks
[48] 2016 Jain et al. - - - - - - - - - - - - - Proposal of a communication protocol
for multi-cell cooperation to coordi-
nate spectral efficiency – not an incen-
tive mechanism
[80] 2016 Martínez-
Cánovas et al.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - Proposal of a repeated game model
to analyze cooperation emergence
among rational agents for distributed
service discovery – neither reputation
nor monetary payoff; expected to be
service
[131] 2012 Wu et al. - - - - - - - - - - RE - - Scheme selection game to improve co-
operation in energy-constrained ad
hoc Networks
[49] 2004 Jiang et al. - - - - R V - - Y N - N Y Reputation mechanism that supple-
ments own interaction histories with
recommendations of other peers
[59] 2010 Kim - - - - - - - - Y - RE - - Data replication strategy based on the
self-reported relative meant time to
failure metric – not an incentive mech-
anism
[13] 2020 Bhattacharya
and Guo
- - V R M R N - Y - PR N Y Incentive mechanism for contend de-
livery networks where seeding peers
offer competetive pricing to request-
ing peers
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

44 Ihle et al.
Ref Year Authors FI SC RA IA SA CA AC AN LNK CONF TA MT OPN Notes
[124] 2020 Wei et al. M M - M R - - N Y - RE Y N Hybrid incentive that leverages peer
reputation and data quality to pay
monetary rewards
[144] 2021 Zhang et al. M R - - M - N PS Y Y RE N Y Deterministic pricing incentive to re-
ward participants in a federated learn-
ing system
[2] 2021 Al Ridhawi
et al.
- R - - - - Y - Y Y RE Y Y A multiple blockchain-based mone-
tary reward mechanism for peer-to-
peer computing enabled by smart con-
tracts
[5] 2021 Ansari et al. - V V M M V N PS Y N RE N Y A score-based incentive mechanism
(SIM) where scores are defined by up-
load capacity, video quality, control
packets, and a peer’s availability
[111] 2021 Singha and
Singh
- M V - R V N - Y Y PR N Y An incentive for wireless P2P net-
works where peers share their wired
access to a backbone over a wireless
connection if peers match their indi-
vidual download requirements
[96] 2022 Pal et al. M V - - M - N - Y N PR N Y A utility function based on a users par-
ticipation factor to control access time
to a distributed cloud
[1] 2021 Adamu R V - R R R N PS Y N PR N Y A share-ratio based approach where
deny-listing is conducted by tracker
peers
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 45
A.4 Supplemental Summaries of Primary Research Pubications
This section provides a short summary of each primary research publication we analyzed. Descrip-
tions of hybrid incentive models that fall into more than one category appear in each category.
A.4.1 Monetary:Auction.
File Sharing.
“An Incentive Compatible Mechanism for Replica Placement in Peer-Assisted Content Distribution”.
Bhattacharya and Minzhe [13] propose an incentive mechanism for content delivery networks.
The network is an overlay to the BitTorrent file-sharing network. The approach uses a payout
mechanism that allows the building of a budget. Seeding peers send reports of their costs to
requesting peers. The requesting peers then select a subset of seeders, buy the resources from them,
and pay the requested reward. Their experiments in R showed that the proposed decentralized
incentive scheme improved the peer contributions even though peers are self-interested, and thus
reduced the total cost of the content delivery in the content delivery network.
“A Group Strategy-Proof Incentive Approach for Eliminating Selfish Behaviors in Peer-to-Peer File
Allocation”. Zuo and Zhang [149] propose an auction scheme to prevent selfish behavior in peer-to-
peer file sharing. Per-replica payouts are given to participants who state their node utility honestly.
The authors provide formal proof using game theory that shows the correctness and effectiveness
of the approach. Further, the approach achieves less delay and better quality of service in a peersim
(Java) simulation. Due to the game-theoretic scope of the paper, the currency and payment channels
are not explained.
“To Play or to Control”. Wang and Li [120] propose an incentive mechanism model that ensures
desirable system performance among peers in a peer-to-peer global storage system who want
to maximize their net gains and are generally expected to act selfishly. The authors model the
peer-to-peer system as a Cournot Oligopoly game and derive a control-theoretic solution for it. They
derive a dynamic payoff function for each peer that also incorporates system performance goals.
Wang and Li simulate their approach with 50 peers that have heterogeneous but constant storage
contributions and bandwidth consumption. Their evaluation covers system capacity, bandwidth
stress, and storage utilization.
“Incentive Mechanism for P2P File Sharing Based on Social Network and Game Theory”. Wu et
al. [132] propose NIM, a novel auction-based incentive mechanism for peer-to-peer file sharing
and media streaming. The approach aims to eliminate free-riding and offers an alternative to the
inefficient choking algorithms of Gnutella and BitTorrent. Each node can earn end spend counters,
which are stored and managed by a central server. Nodes bid on bandwidth or offer files and
streaming data in an auction. A game simulation is used to find the participant’s Nash equilibrium
and to evaluate the performance and free-riding resistance. The incentive presented in this paper
uses a central server, a Distributed Hash Table (DHT), and supernodes. However, we assume that a
distributed ledger could substitute the incentive’s single point of failure to achieve decentralization.
“A Utility-Based Auction Cooperation Incentive Mechanism in Peer-to-Peer Networks”. Cheng et
al. [20] propose an auction cooperation incentive mechanism to mitigate free-riding behavior in
peer-to-peer systems. The authors consider the “optimistic unchoking” algorithm in the BitTorrent
network as unfair for weak peers in the system that do their best as free-riders get the opportunity
to download without uploading. They introduce an auction mechanism that lets the source peer ask
service providers in the network for their utility. The source peer then selects a destination peer with
the highest utility. The authors differentiate peers between fast (ADSL-like), slow (modem-like), and
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

46 Ihle et al.
free-riders. They try to benefit slow peers and punish free riders with their incentive mechanism.
The authors first motivate the necessity of their incentive mechanism by running experiments
that prove the unbalanced “optimistic unchoking” algorithm. Then they show that their scheme
improves the performance of slow peers while mitigating resource access for free-riders.
“A Peer-to-Peer Communication Based Content Distribution Protocol for Incentive-A ware Delay
Tolerant Networks”. Haq and Faheem in [39] propose an incentive mechanism for DTNs based
on the exchange of a digital currency for data relay services. Their protocol is modeled after the
Rubinstein Bargain model [103], which constitutes a sub-game perfect equilibrium. They mainly
consider mobile devices, respective to their carriers, to represent network nodes that act rationally
based on their battery level, worth of messages exchanged, and social ties to peers. Participants can
be subscribed to messages of interest, and they are expected to be interested in disseminating these
messages. This is different for messages they have not subscribed to, so the authors propose the
exchange of a digital currency for relaying services. They particularly focus on the dissemination
of large files because, in existing protocols, nodes request whole files at once, and if the link breaks,
which is expected to happen frequently in DTNs, the partially received files are discarded. The
proposed protocol is evaluated with simulations of up to 150 nodes. They propose a chunking
mechanism to mitigate this problem. The authors solely focus on selfish nodes and don’t consider
other types of attacks that were discussed above. Further, it is unclear how the virtual currency
infrastructure is architectured.
Video Streaming.
“Joint Bandwidth Allocation, Data Scheduling and Incentives for Scalable Video Streaming over
Peer-to-Peer Networks”. Zou and Chen [148] propose a bandwidth allocation and chunk scheduling
strategy for scalable peer-to-peer video streaming to prevent free-riding and selfishness. The credit-
based auction algorithm is mathematical proven and extensively simulated. Simulation results
using 200 peers and 15 bidding rounds with a churn of 10 peers each round show that free-riders
will run out of credits quickly and are denied service. The approach relies on a centralized directory
server.
“Incentive Mechanism for P2P File Sharing Based on Social Network and Game Theory”.
“A Payment-Based Incentive and Service Differentiation Scheme for Peer-to-Peer Streaming Broad-
cast”. Tan and Jarvis [32] propose an incentive scheme to improve media quality in peer-to-peer
live streaming. A virtual credit system (points) is used to bid in a first-price-auction-like procedure
for data transmissions. Additionally, the amount of earned points reflect a peer’s cooperation level.
Transmissions are established between nodes of similar cooperation levels. The approach assumes
that a lightweight, secure payment mechanism among peers is in place. An event-driven simulator
with 2,592 nodes demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed mechanism.
“A Token-Based Incentive Mechanism for Video Streaming Applications in Peer-to-Peer Networks”.
In [7], the authors Aslani et al. propose a dynamic token-based payment scheme, named TOBIM, for
improving video streaming quality of experience in a peer-to-peer network. Peers have demands for
video chunks and pay these chunks through the means of digital currency. They are incentivized to
earn such tokens by contributing bandwidth to the network. The tradeoff between earned tokens
and bandwidth costs in their proposed system is modeled as a Constrained Markov Decision Process
(CMDP) and evaluated through simulations. The approach is based on semi-trusted third parties
and avoids distributed coordination algorithms.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 47
“Auction-Based P2P VoD Streaming”. Wu et al. [130] propose auction-based incentive for peer-
to-peer video-on-demand streaming. The incentive aims to prevent selfish behavior and improve
media block scheduling to maximize the overall social welfare of the system. Dynamic local auctions
were used to reduce video playback deadlines and achieve a balanced block distribution. Large-scale
empirical studies using PlanetSim with up to 3,000 simultaneous peers were conducted to validate
the approach. A disadvantage is that peers can gain improved streaming quality by favoring peers
with high bandwidth and storage. Further, peers with high bandwidth and storage can accumulate
a large budget that is potentially never spent. An advantage of the concept is its effectiveness and
ability to be fully decentralized by allowing each peer to create its own currency (Lightweight
Currency Protocol [116]).
Any Task.
“An Incentive Driven Lookup Protocol for Chord-Based Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Networks”. Gupta and
Somani [33] present an incentive mechanism that limits the effect of selfish peers in the Chord
DHT lookup protocol without requiring prior trust relationships. A peer who wants to request a
resource issues lookup messages according to the Chord protocol. Multiple Terminal nodes that
hold the association of resource to location IP will receive these messages and start a two-phase
Secure Vickrey Auction mechanism to determine the price for the resource. The authors note that
for rational nodes in selfish network topology, it is the best strategy to follow the Chord protocol.
Unfortunately, the authors do not elaborate on the payment channel and payoff type.
Other Task.
“A Blockchain-Based Hybrid Incentive Model for Crowdsensing”.Wei et al. [124] propose a blockchain-
based monetary crowdsensing incentive to leverage peer reputation and data quality to maximize
participation. Although this is a hybrid incentive, we categorize it by its primary motivator, the
monetary reward. While the monetary incentive is the primary motivator, reputation is needed to
reduce inaccurate data in the network. A bidding process is used to select workers for a sensing task.
The lowest bidder receives the task if its reputation is sufficient. Peers are divided into requesters
and workers. Requesters maintain the blockchain and request tasks, while workers are lightweight
peers that only fulfill tasks. The performance analysis and simulation with 100 peers illustrates
that the proposed hybrid incentive model is a reliable and efficient mean to promote data security
and incentivize positive conduct on the crowdsensing application.
“Incentive Mechanism for Cooperative Authentication”. Fang et al. [28] devise a cooperative au-
thentication approach in mobile opportunistic networks for participatory sensing applications. The
main goals of the mechanism are to prevent selfish behavior and incentivize nodes to authenticate
messages for other nodes. Privacy leakage is another concern of the authors, whose strategy pro-
vides 𝑘-anonymity. To achieve these goals, the authors formulate an evolutionary stable strategy
based on monetary rewards for authentication service providers and show its effectiveness via
analytical and numerical evaluations.
“Joint Resource Allocation and Incentive Design for Blockchain-Based Mobile Edge Computing”.
Sun et al. [113] propose two double auction mechanisms to improve resource allocation in mobile
edge computing without needing a trusted party. The solution relies on immutably stored auction
data on a blockchain and smart contracts to conduct the auctions. Their qualitative evaluation
shows significant performance benefits compared to single-task resource allocation methods under
individual rationality, truthfulness, and budget balance constraints. Further, the mechanism offers
payment and delivery guarantees through a custodial smart contract.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

48 Ihle et al.
Routing and Relaying.
“E-ARL”. Mondal et al. [84] propose E-ARL, an economic incentive scheme for mobile ad hoc
networks. The approach reduces data availability problems caused by peers going offline or moving
out of reach by introducing a bid-based data item allocation mechanism that compensates the
replicating peers with virtual currency. The experiment uses 100 peers with 70% free-riders and
30% peers participating in the incentive scheme. The results show a better quality of service, better
revenue and load balancing, better query response times, and query success rate. Although the
pricing strategies are explained in detail, the payment channel is unknown.
“A Dynamic Incentive Pricing Scheme for Relaying Services in Multi-Hop Cellular Networks”. Lin
and Lo [70] propose a pricing scheme to motivate relaying in cellular networks. Mobile ad-hoc
networks improve performance and maximize the revenue of the network provider by using
mobile nodes to relay the communication to a base station. This communication can occur through
multiple hops, and the pricing scheme must reward each hop. The proposed incentive uses dynamic
pricing that varies with regard to the network’s conditions. Prices are set by the network provider
who maintains the base station. The scheme is a reverse auction, but the payment channels and
implementation details remain undefined in the paper. An experiment validates the revenue increase
for the network provider by simulating over 500 nodes.
“An Economic Incentive Model for Encouraging Peer Collaboration in Mobile-P2P Networks with
Support for Constraint Queries”. Mondal et al. [85] propose ConQuer, an incentive mechanism
for mobile ad hoc peer-to-peer networks. The mechanism aims to provide fairness and motivate
participation using an auction mechanism with brokers selling routing information to mobile peers.
This broker-based query processing is optimized for cost and performance and evaluated using
100 peers that measure their response time, success rate, and data quality. The authors plan to use
virtual currency that can be created by each broker [21, 25] but also reference an option secured by
a trusted and tamper-resistant hardware module in each node [14, 147]
A.4.2 Monetary:Marketplace/Double Auction.
Peer-to-Peer Computing.
“Incentive-Based Scheduling for Market-Like Computational Grids”. Xiao et al. [69] propose a
marketplace-based incentive for grid computing to maximize successful job execution and minimize
unfair profit allocation. Consumers announce jobs and collect bids from providers. Jobs need to be
independent of each other and must be timebound. A competition degree metric is used to track
the reliability of other nodes locally. The success rate is therefore calculated over the jobs that
finished correctly in time. Experiments using 20 consumers and 80 providers show an improvement
in successful-execution rate and fairness under synthetic and real workloads. The mechanism
does not explain how the correctness of job results is proven, nor how workload is estimated and
unsolvable jobs are prevented.
“Incentive Mechanism for Scheduling Jobs in a Peer-to-Peer Computing System”. Rius et al. [101]
propose an incentive mechanism to motivate the contribution of computational resources to jobs in
different types of peer-to-peer networks. The authors envision a two-layered incentive approach.
The first layer incentivizes participants via a credit-based scheme to discourage free-riding and
cheating. The second layer circumvents the scalability limitations of the first via the concept of
“super-peers” with an associated reputation value. Their simulation with 4 000 peers and 100 000
workers shows that the approach can eliminate the vast majority of free-riders in the system and is
tolerant of changes in user behavior.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 49
Other Task.
“Blockchain-Based Incentive Energy-Knowledge Trading in IoT”. Lin et al. [72] propose an edge
learning and wireless charging market where edge devices cooperate in training a global model.
While the training aspect uses a centralized node to hold the global model, the wireless charging
market has no central dependencies. Edge devices and wireless power transfer nodes form a market
of buyers and sellers of charging. The monetary vehicle is an energy/knowledge coin that peers
pay to consume learning data or use charging. A permissioned DPoS blockchain is used to prevent
double spending, facilitate transactions, and maintain the balances of each peer. Further, the authors
designed a Stackelberg-game to validate the approach’s market efficiency.
“Making Knowledge Tradable in Edge-AI Enabled IoT”. Lin et al. [73] propose a peer-to-peer
knowledge trading market for Internet of Things (Iot) devices secured by a consortium blockchain.
A knowledge coin is the core element of the incentive mechanism and marketplace. The marketplace
holds knowledge such as learning results and models derived from Iot data. Proof of Trading is
introduced as a green alternative to Proof of Work. Proof of Trading solves a hash puzzle and
includes the amount of owned coins as a stake to select the next block proposer. Numerical results
using python and MATLAB show a higher quality and more knowledge at the same costs compared
to the non-incentivized methods. An adapting pricing strategy is used to achieve optimal security
and efficiency.
“Integrating Distributed Grids With Green Cellular Backhaul”. Li et al. [66] propose a method to
request and allocate renewable energy from distributed energy sources in a decentralized market
setting to provide green energy to cellular network providers. The method describes a pricing
scheme that considers the competition and coalition between energy providers, leading to a hybrid
Stackelberg game with coalition elements. The use case focuses on wireless backhaul connections,
which connect cell towers to the network backbone of a service provider. Although the market is
decentralized, energy consumers control where a market forms due to their oligopoly demand. The
incentive is a simple market maker between demand and supply of energy. The numerical game
theoretical evaluation shows that the method leads to forming coalition groups acting in Nash
equilibrium. These coalitions between energy providers in local microgrids benefit both energy
consumers and providers.
“Group Bargaining Based Bitcoin Mining Scheme Using Incentive Payment Process”. Sungwook
Kim [60] proposes an anonymous group bargaining scheme to allocate Bitcoin mining rewards. The
scheme uses a reciprocal grouping of users and mining pools to deliver a suitable trade-off between
efficiency and fairness. A game theoretical simulation using MATLAB validates the scheme against
three alternatives (TNLB, GMTC, EEMC) and shows the superior efficiency of the proposed scheme.
Any Task.
“An Efficient Incentive Scheme with a Distributed Authority Infrastructure in Peer-to-Peer Networks”.
Zhang et al. [143] propose an incentive scheme that employs a distributed authority infrastructure,
a key sharing protocol, and a contract verification protocol to promote cooperation and limit
the impact of maliciously colluding participants in peer-to-peer networks. The authors combine
reputation mechanisms with virtual currency. The authority infrastructure consists of a deter-
ministic, pseudo-random set of nodes that act as a delegation for a certain peer. This group is
responsible for keeping track of that said peer’s credit balance and reputation information. The key
sharing protocol ensures honest service contract negotiations employing the distributed authority
infrastructure. The authors simulate their incentive mechanism with 100 000 nodes and varying
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

50 Ihle et al.
numbers of dishonest nodes. The results led them to conclude that their approach is capable of
“solving the free-riders problem”.
“An Incentive Mechanism to Reinforce Truthful Reports in Reputation Systems”. Zhao et al. [146]
propose an incentive to ensure trustworthiness in reputation systems. To increase system per-
formance, the approach aims to prevent silent and lying strategies in repudiation systems. The
reputation system is therefore supplemented by a currency (credits). Reported reputation informa-
tion is rewarded with a payment scheme. The payment does not require other peers to verify the
information’s truthfulness. Only the paying peer adjusts the payment if undesired information is
delivered. Extensive simulations show optimal welfare and truthful behavior; however, this game-
theoretic model does not elaborate on the payment channel. Therefore, an essential component of
the incentive stays unclear.
File Sharing.
“User Incentives for Blockchain-Based Data Sharing Platforms”. propose file sharing marketplace
like incentive based on monetary payments using smart contracts. The authors focus mainly on
simulations predicting the costs (gas) associated with smart contract execution on the Ethereum
blockchain. The providing peers set the prices and rewards for file consumption and are expected
to converge to economically sustainable costs for efficient peers. The results show that the longer a
peer provides data, the hight the chances of making a profit. The paper lacks to discuss the prices of
alternative blockchains. Smart contract-capable blockchains like Polygon24 only require a fraction
of a cent to execute a transaction, rendering the file-sharing marketplace much more efficient.
Routing and Relaying.
“An Incentive Mechanism for Message Relaying in Unstructured Peer-to-Peer Systems”. Li et al.
[65] propose a relaying and micro-payment incentive for peer-to-peer systems to prevent free-
riding. The paper mainly focuses on the search protocol to find providers and leaves pricing and
negotiations for provided data for future work. Further, a centralized bank is assumed to manage
the virtual currency. A simulated testbed compares the approach against breadth-first-search and
random walks and evaluates the system efficiency and peer utility. Onboarding and offboarding of
peers (churn) during testing are not considered, and the routing and relaying are assumed to be
reliable.
“Economic Incentive-Based Brokerage Schemes for Improving Data A vailability in Mobile-P2P
Networks”. Padhariya et al. [95] propose a “glseib” scheme that motivates participants of mobile
peer-to-peer networks to not only act as relaying nodes but also to proactively anticipating queries
and searching for their results by maintaining an index of the which data is stored at which peer.
The authors also propose enhancements to this glseib scheme to facilitate load-sharing among
broker peers. Brokers in the system are rewarded for each query they successfully process. This
leads brokers to maintain an index of data items stored with other peers or even store the data
itself. Data providers are incentivized to allow brokers to replicate often queried data because
they will receive a royalty payment. If replicated, they will also get rewarded even when the data
provider is offline. The three enhancement proposals to this scheme aim at incentivizing brokers
to provide even better service and load-sharing by introducing different broker scoring strategies
with different tradeoffs. The authors simulate their schemes with OMNeT++ and 1000 network
participants. They conclude that their proposals are indeed “effective in improving query response
times, data availability, and query hop-counts at reasonable communication traffic cost”
24https://polygon.technology
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 51
“Channel-Relay Price Pair”. Xue et al. [136] propose an incentive mechanism that leads to fair
allocation of resources and cooperative behavior in a wireless ad hoc network of generally greedy
and selfish participants. The authors argue that peers need to consider the two competing resources
of individual relaying costs and shared wireless channel bandwidth. They invent a price pair that
associates a cost with using the shared wireless channel and a reward with provided relaying
services. The authors theoretically model their incentive mechanism game and state that the
decentralized self-optimizing decisions maximize the optimal global network utility.
“Top-k Query Processing in Mobile-P2P Networks Using Economic Incentive Schemes”. The authors
around Padhariya [94] propose three credit-based incentive schemes under the umbrella of their
“E-Top” system to improve the processing of top-𝑘 queries in a MANET. Two act on an individual
basis where the payoffs are distributed equally or weighted. The third incentive scheme assumes
the ad-hoc formation of peer groups but does not change the idea of using a virtual currency as a
payoff vehicle. The authors back their schemes by running simulations in OMNeT++25 modeling
the mobility of 100 nodes according to a Random Waypoint Model . The authors conclude their
performance evaluation by stating that their “E-Top” approach improves query response times and
accuracy at a reasonable traffic cost.
“A Game Theoretical Incentive Scheme for Relay Selection Services in Mobile Social Networks”. Xu
et al. [135] devised a virtual currency-based incentive scheme to facilitate efficient relay selection in
the environment of a MSN. They employed a bargaining game to model the transaction pricing for
relaying services. Their goal is to prevent selfish nodes that don’t participate in relaying services
in the challenging network scenario of opportunistic P2P links. The mechanism is based on a
virtual currency used to pay for relaying service and an approach to select a relaying node from
the neighbors. The latter is based on the node status, which is a metric that incorporates node
buffer, node energy, and the TTL of the message. The agreement price is modeled after a subgame
Nash perfect equilibrium and put under test in simulations. The simulations with 20 MSN nodes
show that their mechanism can outperform existing schemes to date in 2016 in a higher delivery
ratio and lower delivery delay. They conclude that further research is needed to cover the effects of
fraudulent nodes.
Video Streaming.
“Distributed Caching via Rewarding”. Weijie et al. [126] propose an incentive mechanism to
encourage caching work in a P2P network targeted at video-on-demand services and minimize
operational costs for content providers. Their incentive scheme is based on a stochastic, mean-field
model to characterize the system in a limiting steady state. This lets them formulate an optimal
pricing problem in which the content provider proposes a price for each video. They consider
two design objectives for the pricing scheme. The first considers only the upload costs of content
providers, and the second also factors in the caching payouts to the peers. They put their pricing
models under test in extensive simulations of 10 000 nodes and most notably find that the order
video prices should be in reverse order of video popularity.
“Incentive Mechanism for the CoopNet Network”. Manzato and Fonseca [78] propose a credit- and
reputation-based incentive mechanism to increase the quality of service of video streaming applica-
tions in the CoopNet network that is challenged by node churn and selfish behavior of participants.
Reviewing the incentive patterns in [78, p. 17] the authors concluded that the “Barter trade” pattern
is most suitable for the synchronous delivery application of video streaming applications. Nodes
trade outgoing bandwidth for incoming bandwidth in a ratio determined via a cooperation tax. To
25https://omnetpp.org/
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

52 Ihle et al.
motivate participants to stay longer in the network, the authors propose remuneration through a
reputation mechanism that increases this cooperation tax for peers who stayed on the network for
a short time. The authors simulate their incentive mechanism in a newly developed tool in different
scenarios. Next to an increased quality of service, the authors conclude that the reputation aspect
is only worth the overhead in a situation where many peers quickly join the network.
“Viewing Experience Optimization for Peer-to-Peer Streaming Networks with Credit-Based Incentive
Mechanisms”. Kang et al. [55] propose credit-based upload incentives for peer-to-peer multimedia
streaming to prevent free-riding and motivate cooperation. The authors analyze how multimedia
stream consumers should allocate their credits to uploaders to achieve an optimal streaming
experience over a fixed time span. A simulation with 1000 nodes is conducted to compare optimal
credit allocation against three variants of suboptimal allocation strategies. The authors conclude
that the credit-based incentive mechanism should complement a reputation system to prevent false
information and selfish attacks.
Service Discovery.
“Strategies for Cooperation Emergence in Distributed Service Discovery”. Del Val et al. [24] propose
an incentive mechanism to stimulate cooperation in distributed service discovery processes. The
authors abstractly model the query process to discover services with several cost, benefit, and
reward factors. E.g., forwarding a query is costly but may bring a reward if successful in the form
of a virtual currency. The authors performed experiments with 100 undirected networks and 1000
agents where each agent was connected to 2.5 other agents on average and 40% were cooperators
or 60% were cooperators. They found an increase in the degree of cooperation in both cases as the
number of hops to reach a target agent was reduced.
“Promoting Cooperation in Service-Oriented MAS through Social Plasticity and Incentives”. Del
Val et al. [23] propose a hybrid incentive scheme that employs credit-based and social plasticity
reputation-based mechanics to facilitate service discovery in peer-to-peer networks. The authors
associate a cost and reward for, e.g., query forwarding actions that incentivize participants in the
system to contribute resources. On the other hand, social plasticity allows nodes to change their
neighbors if they detect non-cooperative peers. This adaptive combination of a social plasticity
reputation scheme and credit-based incentives was simulated with 1 000 nodes and let the authors
conclude that their approach yielded “better results [...] than other approaches proposed for
promoting cooperation in networks [...]”.
File Sharing.
“Incentive Mechanism Design for Heterogeneous Peer-to-Peer Networks”. Xin and Yongdong [134]
propose an incentive mechanism design to prevent free-riding in peer-to-peer networks. The authors
model the peer’s interactions as a Stackelberg Game (a leader moves first; other participants react).
The uploader is considered the leader and sets a price for its bandwidth. Then, the downloaders react
by determining their optimal download bandwidths. The incentive mechanism aims to maximize
the utility for downloaders and uploaders. The proposed design is shown to be effective. However,
for use in production systems, a mechanism for trust management must be added to the approach.
Further, it is shown that the mechanism can adapt to dynamic events such as peers joining or
leaving the network (churn).
A.4.3 Monetary:Deterministic.
File Sharing.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 53
“Robust and Efficient Incentives for Cooperative Content Distribution”. Sirivianos et al. [112]
propose Dandelion, an incentive mechanism that motivates uploads and content distribution in
peer-to-peer file-sharing protocols. The hybrid approach combines reciprocate cooperation of
peers with a centralized credit-based reward mechanism. An experiment with 1000 peers on 100
PlanetLab hosts validated its viability.
“Off-Line Incentive Mechanism for Long-Term P2P Backup Storage”. Gramaglia et al. [31] propose
a micro-payment incentive mechanism for peer-to-peer storage systems that allows peers to be
offline for extended periods of time. The approach uses delayed payments through digital cheques
issued by banks that compensate peers for the delegated storage of data chunks. A secure data
verification mechanism ensures the storage of these chunks. An ad-hoc cycle-based simulator is
used to validate the storage system’s effectiveness, availability, and scalability.
“A Blockchain Based Truthful Incentive Mechanism for Distributed P2P Applications”. He et al. [40]
proposes a truthful cryptocurrency reward mechanism to prevent selfish actions and collusion
in peer-to-peer networks. The method uses a secure content-protecting validation method and
a pricing strategy to reward participants. Commutative encryption prevents individuals from
decrypting content and, therefore, protects content from exploitation. The pricing strategy is
designed to be robust against selfish behavior and collusion attacks. The game theoretical analysis
and simulation show that selfish behavior is disadvantageous compared to cooperative behavior.
However, collusion attacks depend on the network size and number of colluding participants, as a
high probability of encountering colluding can be a vulnerability.
“Persuading Agents to Act in the Right Way”. Centeno et al. [16] propose a generic incentive
mechanism to maximize the utility of open multi-agent systems. A set of incentivators learn which
actions are needed to maximize the system’s utility. These incentivators punish and reward agents if
certain actions are taken. The incentivators rank the actions and set positive and negative incentives
accordingly. The approach uses a masternode-based architecture and a Q-learning algorithm to
rank actions. A file-sharing scenario with a fee-based incentive is used to validate the approach.
The experiment uses 70 peers with a bandwidth from 640 to 4096 Mb/s and 25 to 35% seeders and
shows that the incentive adapts well to changing agent behavior and performs similarly to standard
normative systems.
Any Task.
“Incentive Mechanisms for Peer-to-Peer Systems”. Yu and Singh [139] present in their paper an
incentive mechanism to mitigate free riding by agents that search a peer-to-peer network through
referrals and get incentivized to contribute resources through a static and dynamic pricing scheme.
Agents in a peer-to-peer network form a referral graph. In the static pricing scheme, a query issued
by a particular peer incurs a cost for said peer if it gets answered by a neighbor. In the dynamic
pricing scheme, the authors consider the quality of services provided by neighbors and adjust
the payments according to it. The authors simulate their mechanism with 100 to 500 agents in a
self-developed testbed for information access. They find that free-riders quickly run out of credits
where the dynamic pricing mechanism leads to a zero balance 25 % faster.
Other Task.
“Incentive-Driven and Privacy-Preserving Message Dissemination in Large-Scale Mobile Networks”.
Teng et al. [52] propose a coupon-based incentive mechanism to allow stores to reach a large number
of customers in a short time. The approach uses private key infrastructure to encrypt the transmitted
data and protect the coupons from forgery. Two models are proposed, one where all forwarders
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

54 Ihle et al.
benefit equally and another where a single forwarder benefits randomly. Further, the authors
use AREX, a peer-to-peer denylisting mechanism, to penalize misbehavior. A prototype using six
Symbian mobile phones was implemented, and an additional simulation of 5000 participants was
conducted to validate the approach’s energy efficiency and coupon propagation capability.
“Refiner”. Zhang et al. [144] propose Refinder, a deterministic pricing incentive to reward partici-
pants in a federated learning system. Peers collectively train an AI model of shared interest and are
rewarded with a cryptocurrency (ERC20 token). Rewards are paid proportional to the contributions
made by each peer. A smart contract controls an initially provided budget, and the incentive stops
once the budget is drained.
“An Incentive-based Mechanism for Volunteer Computing Using Blockchain”. Al Ridhawi et al. [2]
propose a blockchain-based reward mechanism for peer-to-peer computing. Rewards are generated
and paid as a token. A fog node selects candidates that perform the computing based on their stated
resources, capabilities, and service requirements. A reinforcement learning process determines
the reward value. OMENT++ and OverSim are used to simulate 500 peers and showed that the
proposed solution provides adequate and fair distributed rewards to all participants in the blockchain
formation process.
Routing and Relaying.
“Incentive Based Data Sharing in Delay Tolerant Mobile Networks”. Wang et al. [121] propose
MuRIS, a multi-receiver-based incentive mechanism for data sharing in delay-tolerant networks.
The proposed reward mechanism considers historical encounters to estimate the closeness of
participants as well as the possibly feasible paths to reach a certain participant. These two values
define the expected reward. Frequent probe messages are used to explore the possible paths in
the network. The simulation uses three publishing participants to generate 1000 messages. Each
peer has limited bandwidth but enough storage space to theoretically hold the entire set of files.
The simulation shows an increased delivery ratio and transmission efficiency compared to three
alternative approaches (Epidemic, RELICS, and Incentive).
“Generalized Connections and Incentives for Supporting CE Devices in Live Streaming Systems”. De
Sales et al. [22] propose the Global Media Transmission Protocol (GMTP) to facilitate efficient video
streaming in a hybrid CDN/P2P network. Their incentive mechanism aims to motivate participants
not interested in the streaming data to contribute relaying services to increase the network’s
welfare. Participants are usually devices with a stable IP, like home routers that provide services to
dynamic mobile devices. The routers register in CDN servers to provide relaying services to gain
“Ticket of Bits” for providing upload bandwidth. Based on the streaming quality that is relayed,
the number of tickets is determined from the CDN server and assigned to the node. This currency
(Tickets of Bits) can be used for other purchases outside this protocol. Simulations were conducted
with over 10 000 nodes, and it was found that a significant improvement to the average startup
delay compared to connected and unconnected mesh networks could be achieved.
“Decentralized Video Streaming in Multi-Hop Wireless Networks”. In [89], Mousavi and Klein
address the challenges associated with video streaming in Multi-Hop wireless networks by having
one source and multiple receivers. They propose a monetary incentive mechanism that factors in
different preferences regarding the video quality of the receiving peers and proposes a taxation
scheme to reward disseminating peers depending on their spent energy. Further, the authors
propose a non-cooperative game theoretic model that is put to the test by extensive simulations.
A.4.4 Reputation.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 55
Video Streaming.
“Score-Based Incentive Mechanism (SIM) for Live Multimedia Streaming in Peer-to-Peer Network”.
Alam et al. [5] propose a score-based incentive mechanism (SIM) to improve resource utilization in
P2P multimedia streaming. Rewards and punishments are used to increase or decrease a peer’s
score. This score is calculated by the upload capacity, video quality, control packets, and a peer’s
availability. The reputation of each peer is determined using score values of its recent and previous
sessions. A simulation with OMNET++ and Oversim using 1000 peers was used to validate the
improvement in video quality and network performance. Metrics like end-to-end delay, playback
delay, start-up delay and frame redundancy were used to measure the performance. A tracker node
is used to hold the scores of the peers. This node forms a single point of attack and should be
replaced by a set of tracker nodes that peers can query to maintain decentralization. If individual
scores vary significantly, peers could denylist certain trackers.
“Incentive Cooperation Strategies for Peer-to-Peer Live Multimedia Streaming Social Networks”. Lin
et al. [71] propose a reciprocity-based incentive strategy for live multimedia streaming over peer-
to-peer networks. The approach aims to be cheat-free, attack resistant, and reliable by comparing
Pareto-optimal, proportional fair, or absolute fair behavior. This paper proposes a game-theoretic
framework where a player should not send more chunks than its opponent does for it. A game-
theoretic framework is used for analytical and simulation-based evaluation.
“Incentive Cooperation in Peer to Peer Video Streaming Using Cooperative Game”. Nasab et al. [92]
present a Shapley value approach to increase cooperation and prevent free-riders in a peer-to-peer
video streaming network. The authors propose a utility function for each peer in a reciprocal
interaction scenario that is to be maximized and eventually stipulates resource sharing. The
incentive mechanism consists of finding free-riders based on their willingness to cooperate and,
second, motivating peers based on the reciprocal reputation mechanism. Gained profits are divided
based on bandwidth contribution and their Shapley value. To evaluate their incentive mechanism,
the authors conduct a simulation with 400 nodes to compare received video chunks of nodes that
cooperate against those that don’t. The authors conclude that their approach leads to uniform
distribution of profits and resources, optimized usage of bandwidth, and a decreased error rate.
“COINS”. Belmonte et al. [10] propose COINS, a coalition formation and incentive mechanism
to improve the quality of service and download time in video streaming and one-click hosting
peer-to-peer networks. The coalitions elect a manager that handles the task assignment in each
coalition. A grace period defines when the system starts to punish a free-riding peer, and credits
called responsiveness bonus reflect the overall contribution of every peer. The simulation used
a population of 1000 peers and 9000 files of different sizes. It showed that COINS can prevent
free-riding and promote contribution by allocating payments to peer coalitions of variable size.
“Predicting the Level of Cooperation in a Peer-to-Peer Live Streaming Application”. Gonçalves et
al. [29] measure the cooperation in the popular SopCast protocol and propose a new model to
detect peers that report artificially inflated cooperation data based on their findings. Cooperation
measurement uses the graph-based out-degree metric. Further, graphs are used to identify clusters
of potentially colluding peers, and a model is trained to predict the expected cooperation level of
individual peers. The model, hence, offers a reputation mechanism to select and deny interactions
with participants.
“Coercion Builds Cooperation in Dynamic and Heterogeneous P2P Live Streaming Networks”. Jin and
Kwok [51] propose practical incentives for peer-to-peer live streaming with reputation penalties
designed for peers with different bandwidth capacities. The core of the incentive is a strategic peer
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

56 Ihle et al.
selection with different selection probabilities for each peer. The example use case of time-critical
peer-to-peer live streaming itself is not fully decentralized, as it uses unequal nodes, i.e., tracking
nodes; the incentive mechanism, however, has no centralized aspects. The formulated game models
are used to analyze the incentive effects of live streaming with performance, fairness, and robustness
measures. Additionally, cycle-based event-driven package-level simulations are conducted for 1000
peers to validate the game theoretical models.
“An Incentive Scheduling Mechanism for Peer-to-Peer Video Streaming”. Montazeri et al. [86]
propose ISSS+IRA, an incentive mechanism for mesh-based peer-to-peer video streaming networks.
The approach aims to motivate peer cooperation to prevent free-riding and increase the perceived
video quality. Peers track each others’ contribution amounts in a distributed fashion. Not every
package and video chunk is measured; instead, small contribution intervals are set. Each peer
has a list of peers to monitor. Periodically, peers disseminate the measured contributions to other
neighboring peers. The streaming source schedules the video quality according to the measured
contribution amounts. Extensive simulations show an increase in video quality for cooperating
participants and a decrease in free-riding. Additionally, a general approximation of big O complexity
for DHT based, hierarchical, central-based, tit-for-tat, and EigenTrust incentives are given.
Autonomic and Trusted Computing. Yang and Meho [137] propose TPOD, a trust-based incentive
mechanism for peer-to-peer live streaming. To achieve service differentiation, the approach uses a
trust value composed of the contributed upstream traffic and online duration. To approach aims to
improve service quality and prevent free-riding. Trustworthy peers are rewarded with better quality
streaming, and low-performing peers are penalized by limiting their communication partners to
other low upstream peers. The mechanism detects and exchanges trust and contribution level
without central authority through a gossip-based overlay and are used to create composite trust
indices. Experiments on PlanetLab with 300 active peers show that the average delivery ratio of
packages increases significantly with the proposed incentive mechanism.
“PULSE”. Pianese et al. [100] propose PULSE, a tit-for-tat extension to improve live media stream-
ing in peer-to-peer networks. The approach aims to scale broadcasting infrastructure dynamically
to varying numbers of receiving nodes while minimizing payout delay and improving media quality.
Media quality, in this case, describes the completeness of data and the number of artifacts. The
authors prioritize resource usage in the mesh network over fully reciprocal fairness to benefit global
performance. A prototype was deployed to a testbench of 800 nodes on Grid’5000 and PlanetLab,
where the outbound bandwidth was artificially limited. The experiments showed high resilience to
churn and scalable performance.
“Efficient and Incentive-Compatible Resource Allocation Mechanism for P2P-Assisted Content Deliv-
ery Systems”. Hu et al. [41] propose a tit-for-tat resource allocation mechanism for peer-to-peer file
delivery and video streaming. The proposed strategy dynamically compensates resource-poor peers
by taxing the contingents of resource-rich peers. A central instance adjusts this tax. Therefore,
providing a more consistent service quality, even under fluctuating bandwidth. The packet level
simulation shows satisfactory performance and improved robustness against dishonest behavior of
up to 50% of the peers.
“How Much to Share”. Xiao et al. [133] propose an incentive mechanism to stimulate fair resource
contribution and consumption in a peer-to-peer network for video streaming applications. The
authors define four key issues an incentive mechanism must consider. Namely: Asymmetry consid-
erations, easy implementation emphasizing instant contributions, game-based model, and honest
incentive implementation guarantees. They split the video streaming task into fixed time rounds
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 57
where each subsequent round incorporates peer contribution information from the previous round
to determine how many resources that peer is eligible for. Their incentive mechanism relies on
a trusted third party to track peer contributions, and their work does not consider attacks from
malicious nodes.
“Utilizing Layered Taxation to Provide Incentives in P2P Streaming Systems”. Li and Wu [64]
propose CLT, a credit-line-based layered taxation incentive for peer-to-peer streaming systems. The
approach aims to increase streaming performance by increasing individual and system utility. Peers
pick different Quality of Experience layers depending on their latency demands. The top layers
have fewer hops to the streaming source and receive the lowest latency stream. Participants can
choose a layer by paying a corresponding tax. The taxation does not rely on a central entity; each
peer maintains a taxation relationship with its neighbors individually, and remote attestation is
used to verify the credit calculation. The approach is validated by trace-driven simulations showing
free-riding elimination and performance improvement.
“Service Differentiated Peer Selection”. Habib and Chuang [35] propose an incentive mechanism
to increase the quality of service of media streaming in a peer-to-peer network by limiting the peer
selection choices for free-riders. By contributing resources, the network participants can earn a
score that maps to a certain rank. This rank orders peers relatively according to their contribution
to the network and makes them eligible to select a higher utility peer that increases the quality of
service. The authors simulate their incentive mechanism with the Planet-Lab test bed and find that
their incentive mechanism yields a near-optimal quality of service for cooperative users until the
bottleneck shifts from the source peers to the network itself.
File Sharing.
“Enhancing Tit-for-Tat for Incentive in BitTorrent Networks”. Liu et al. [74] propose an incentive
mechanism that enhances the tit-for-tat scheme prevalent in the BitTorrent network to mitigate
free-riding behavior. The authors model the peer-to-peer environment in the BitTorrent network
and deduce constraints for when tit-for-tat is an equilibrium strategy. Further, the authors extend
the tit-for-tat strategy to incorporate factors that evolve from the dynamic network topology, like
link failures or node churn. They also note that the classic BitTorrent tit-for-tat scheme is a stable
strategy for repeated games. Still, in reality, peers choose their cooperation partner each round
randomly; thus, it is a “random matching game”. They solve both problems by introducing a sense
of generosity that excuses misbehavior to a certain degree and by extending the interaction time of
two parties as long as possible due to initial payoff limitations at the beginning of peer interactions.
The authors simulate their incentive mechanism with 1000 nodes in Matlab, proving its effectiveness.
They also formally proved that their enhanced tit-for-tat strategy is a subgame-perfect equilibrium
under certain conditions.
“An Incentive-based Architecture to Enable Privacy in Dynamic Environments”. Kazatzopoulos et
al. [57] propose an incentive mechanism for the collaborative hiding of confidential information
in MANETs. The authors introduce a reputation metric that tracks the degree of collaboration by
issuing credits for answered requests and denials for unanswered secret sharing requests. Credits
and denial tokens make a peer eligible for secret sharing. The latter is important for newcomers to
the system. They introduce the concept of crawlers to track and monitor the truthfulness of credit
claims of peers. However, it is unclear how crawlers are selected and how their truthful behavior
is enforced. The authors measure the performance of their secret sharing architecture but don’t
verify the effectiveness of its incentive aspect.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

58 Ihle et al.
“SocialTrust”. Hu et al. [42] present an incentive scheme called “SocialTrust” where a distributed
trust mechanism serves as a credit limit for data transfer quotas. To form a trust relationship, a
peer finds a small number of “friend” peers with common interests to maintain a long-running
connection. The trust value is derived from past interactions by counting exchanged packets and
exchanging verifiable notification messages that state the current trust score. The authors further
elaborate on transitive trust transfer to relax spatial and temporal interaction constraints. The
authors perform experiments on the PlanetLab network as the implemented prototype is compatible
with the BitTorrent protocol. They find that “SocialTrust can improve the file availability from 40
to 90 % and reduce the median download time by about 25–50 %”.
“Optimizing Cluster Formation in Super-Peer Networks via Local Incentive Design”. Kurve et al. [62]
propose in their research article an incentive mechanism for optimizing load distribution among
a set of “super-nodes” in a peer-to-peer network based on semantic similarities between content
interests. They acknowledge the heterogeneous peer capabilities and focus on so-called “super-
nodes”, which have increased bandwidth capacities and computational resources. The authors
propose a game theoretic framework that allows stable Nash equilibria to exist, which guarantees
the convergence to an optimal, stable peer to “super-peer” assignment. The approach is optimal
because the average content query resolution time is minimized. The proposed incentive scheme
was tested in a modeled peer-to-peer file-sharing system based on a Gnutella-like system with
100 “super-peers”, 10, 000 peers, and 500 content categories. The authors compared their local
incentive-based approach’s average hop count and average query resolution time with pure load
balancing, pure semantic proximity, and an alternate cost-based approach. It was found that the
local incentive base approach performs best in average query resolution time but slightly worse in
the average hop count, whereas the pure semantic proximity-based approach performs best.
“COINS”. Belmonte et al. [10] propose COINS, a coalition formation and incentive mechanism
to improve the quality of service and download time in video streaming and one-click hosting
peer-to-peer networks. The coalitions elect a manager that handles the task assignment in each
coalition. A grace period defines when the system starts to punish a free-riding peer, and credits
called responsiveness bonus reflect the overall contribution of every peer. The simulation used
a population of 1000 peers and 9000 files of different sizes. It showed that COINS can prevent
free-riding and promote contribution by allocating payments to peer coalitions of variable size.
“Scrivener”. Nandi et al. [91] propose Scrivener, an incentive mechanism for fair bandwidth
sharing in peer-to-peer content distribution networks. The approach ensures fairness, stability,
and usability by detecting and preventing freeloading. Further constraints are low overhead and
high robustness of the mechanism. Locally tracked credit and dept are used to motivate tit-for-tat
behavior. Credits reflect the number of transferred bytes and are offered to neighboring peers based
on the success and failure of past content requests. Transitive credit trade allows data retrieval
from distant peers by creating a credit path. A simulation on 800 online nodes showed an effective
limitation of service quality that is proportional to the past contribution amount of each participant.
“Incentive and Service Differentiation in P2P Networks”. Ma et al. [76] propose RBM-IU, a resource
allocation and incentive scheme for file transfers in peer-to-peer networks. The approach aims to
prevent free-riding and the resulting tragedy of the commons problem by maximizing the social
welfare and willingness to share content. Participating nodes receive service based on their past
contributions. Nodes self-organize by different levels of contribution. This contribution metric only
tracks the file transfers and not the file search in the network. A convergence analysis is used to
validate the bandwidth allocation and resource allocation. The approach is Pareto optimal for all
source nodes and achieves a nash equilibrium for all participating nodes.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 59
“An Incentive-Compatible Mechanism for Efficient Distribution of Bulk Contents on Peer-to-Peer
Networks”. Koo and Lee [61] propose CAU a
seeing-is-believing
tit-for-tat incentive mechanism to improve content distribution over peer-to-peer networks. The
approach incentivizes resource sharing and reduces free-riding. Peers track the average received
data from other peers and distribute their own capacity accordingly. A simulation verified the
content distribution efficiency using 2000 nodes with bandwidth limitations according to three
classes (10 Mbps, 128 kps,56 kbps).
“Cooperation through Self-Similar Social Networks”. Allen et al. [3] a cooperation scheme for
preventing free-rolling and improving updating and sharing content in peer-to-peer networks. The
approach uses a trust level based on previous tit-for-tat cooperation that groups nodes into social
networks of similarly cooperative parties. A high level of cooperation results in a higher quality of
service as a payoff. The simulation conducted tests on network cooperation rates between 20% and
80% and validated the effectiveness and robustness of the approach while proving the applicability
for autonomous decentralized systems.
“Efficient and Incentive-Compatible Resource Allocation Mechanism for P2P-Assisted Content Deliv-
ery Systems”. Hu et al. [41] propose a tit-for-tat resource allocation mechanism for peer-to-peer file
delivery and video streaming. The proposed strategy dynamically compensates resource-poor peers
by taxing the contingents of resource-rich peers. A central instance adjusts this tax. Therefore,
providing a more consistent service quality, even under fluctuating bandwidth. The packet level
simulation shows satisfactory performance and improved robustness against dishonest behavior of
up to 50% of the peers.
“An Equity-Based Incentive Mechanism for Persistent Virtual World Content Service”. Shen et al.
[109] devise an incentive mechanism for reliable storage. Their goal is a marketplace for content
storage in persistent virtual worlds. To achieve this goal, the reliability of content storage must be
measurable as a metric, and users need to be motivated to maintain the content storage cooperatively.
The proposed method is a tit-for-tat-like system with replica groups for different levels of storage
reliability. In the experiment, 10 to 106 devices are simulated where each device fails randomly, and
different reliability values are assigned to each device. It is effectively providing equally reliable
storage service to each storage offering device.
Routing and Relaying.
“New Incentive Mechanism to Enhance Cooperation in Wireless P2P Networks”. Singha and Singh
[111] propose an incentive for wireless P2P networks where peers share their wired access to a
backbone network with others over a wireless connection. The incentive assigns a cooperation
level to each peer, defining the upper bound of receivable bandwidth. Peers decide individually if
a peer matches its download requirements. The proposed incentive was analyzed using a game
theoretic model that validated the assumption of a Nash equilibrium. Further, a simulation with
100 peers was used to confirm the model for 2000 simulation rounds.
Peer-to-Peer Computing.
“Incentive Mechanism for Scheduling Jobs in a Peer-to-Peer Computing System”. Rius et al. [101]
propose an incentive mechanism to motivate the contribution of computational resources to jobs in
different types of peer-to-peer networks. The authors envision a two-layered incentive approach.
The first layer incentivizes participants via a credit-based scheme to discourage free-riding and
cheating. The second layer circumvents the scalability limitations of the first via the concept of
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

60 Ihle et al.
“super-peers” with an associated reputation value. Their simulation with 4 000 peers and 100 000
workers shows that the approach can eliminate the vast majority of free-riders in the system and is
tolerant of changes in user behavior.
“Incentive-A ware Micro Computing Cluster Formation for Cooperative Fog Computing”. Luo et
al. [75] propose a tit-for-tat-like incentive mechanism to provide resources for low latency and
energy-efficient mobile task execution. Coalitional game theory is applied to grouped participants,
which represent a Micro Computing Clusters (MCC). The MCC solution achieves top coalition,
core solution, individual rationality, and computational efficiency. A decentralized and centralized
architecture is simulated and shows a signaling overhead and MCC formation overhead that
increases with the number of participants. The numerical simulation considers 50 MCC formation
rounds and shows an efficient system performance and effective cooperation among devices with
close proximity (500m).
“KeyPIn – Mitigating the Free Rider Problem in the Distributed Cloud Based on Key, Participation, and
Incentive”. Pal et al. [96] propose an incentive mechanism to control participation in a distributed
cloud. A utility function based on a user’s participation factor is used to define a reputation metric.
Multiple key servers are used to control the access time of each peer to resources. A DHT is
used to share the utility among the peers. This metric considers access time, capacity, cores, and
availability. A simulation based on a modified Kademlia DHT with 10.000 peers was used to validate
the incentive, showed effective isolation of free-riding peers, and achieved a Nash equilibrium.
Service Discovery.
“Reputation-Based Policies That Provide the Right Incentives in Peer-to-Peer Environments”. Pa-
paioannou and Stamoulis [97] propose reputation-based policies that improve peer selection in
peer-to-peer services. Provider selection policies handle the selection of service providers based
on their reputation. Contention resolution policies handle the serving of consumers from the
provider’s perspective. The policies take a reputation metric as input and select nodes based on
the policies. Policies for provider selection are highest reputation, comparable reputation, and black
list. For contention resolution the providers can apply highest reputation and a probabilistically fair
with respect to repudiation policy. The approach is justified experimentally with an extensive series
of simulation experiments that consider altruistic and egoistic nodes.
“Promoting Cooperation in Service-Oriented MAS through Social Plasticity and Incentives”. Del
Val et al. [23] propose a hybrid incentive scheme that employs credit-based and social plasticity
reputation-based mechanics to facilitate service discovery in peer-to-peer networks. The authors
associate a cost and reward for, e.g., query forwarding actions that incentivize participants in the
system to contribute resources. On the other hand, social plasticity allows nodes to change their
neighbors if they detect non-cooperative peers. This adaptive combination of a social plasticity
reputation scheme and credit-based incentives was simulated with 1 000 nodes and let the authors
conclude that their approach yielded “better results [...] than other approaches proposed for
promoting cooperation in networks [...]”.
Other Task.
“Cooperation Incentives and Downlink Radio Resource Allocation for Green Communications in a
Heterogeneous Wireless Environment”. Ismail et al. [46] propose a decentralized downlink joint radio
resource allocation strategy to share and save bandwidth and power while satisfying the required
quality of service of network subscribers. Nash bargain games are used to achieve cooperation
between participants. Simulations for three distinct algorithms show a superior power consumption
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 61
compared to single-network non-cooperative approaches. The incentives target network providers
where no malicious actors are expected. The proposed strategy’s main incentive is the win-win
outcome of power savings; a second incentive layer to motivate mobile terminals to relay data is
open for future work.
“Backhaul-Constrained Multicell Cooperation Leveraging Sparsity and Spectral Clustering”. Jain et
al. [48] looked at multi-cell cooperation strategies to mitigate interference at cell boundaries. They
did not propose incentive mechanisms but rather a communication protocol between base stations
to coordinate spectral efficiency.
“Cooperation Policy Selection for Energy-Constrained Ad Hoc Networks Using Correlated Equi-
librium”. Wu et al. [131] propose a correlated equilibrium-based cooperation scheme to achieve
maximum energy efficiency in ad hoc networks. The cooperation scheme uses an adaptive relay
selection strategy where each peer measures its individual regret and utility. Bad performance
leads to a denylisting from the current play and a modification of the strategy. The scheme is
evaluated using a simulation of 1000 iterations and up to 20 peers. A Pareto optimal configuration
with minimum regret value and increased utility.
“A Comprehensive Study of the Use of Advertisements as Incentives in P2P Streaming Systems”.
Wang et al. [118] propose a token-based advertisement incentive for peer-to-peer streaming systems.
The authors define multiple schemes to generate tokens, exchange tokens and calculate the required
amount of advertisements. Unlike in typical streaming incentives, each participant receives the
highest possible quality of service and only the amount of required advertisements varies depending
on each peer’s contributions.
“Coordination of Cooperation Policies in a Peer-to-Peer System Using Swarm-Based RL”. Vakili
et al. [117] propose a distributed reinforcement learning approach to stimulate cooperation and
coordinate the upload-to-download ratio of a peer-to-peer network system in a self-organized
way despite the participants having only a partial view of it. The authors model the system as a
decentralized Markov Decision Process and abstractly frame the problem not only to coordinate the
upload-to-download ratio but rather to generally optimize resource allocation policies. However,
in their simulations of 1000 interacting peers, the authors assess the performance of bandwidth
coordination again. They find that the applied cooperation policies in individual peer-to-peer
interactions are in line with the social welfare of the whole system.
“An Incentive-A ware Blockchain-Based Solution for Internet of Fake Media Things”. In their article,
Chen et al. [19] devise a platform that aims to provide integrity for digital content in the realm of
the internet of fake media things (IoFMT). The platform operates in a proof-of-authority-backed
blockchain network and incentivizes participants to submit “real” news via calculating a credibility
score which is assumed all participants want to maximize. The goal is the fair recognition of good
and bad behaviors by the actors involved. They show a working prototype of the platform.
“Incentive Mechanism for Reliable Federated Learning”. Kang et al. [54] propose an incentive
mechanism and task management scheme for distributed and federated machine learning. The
approach focuses on privacy and only shares updates to the machine learning model, while learning
data is not shared among participants. The incentive uses reputation management. A consortium
blockchain tracks the reputation and prevents repudiation. Reputation is calculated using each
node’s subjective interaction history. Experiments are run on a real-world dataset to validate the
incentive mechanism and learning accuracy. The approach efficiently improves learning accuracy
and performance scales with the number of participants.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

62 Ihle et al.
Any Task.
“A Swarm Intelligence Learning Model of Adaptive Incentive Protocols for P2P Networks”. Zheng
Wang [122] proposes a swarm intelligence learning model of adaptive incentive protocols for
general peer-to-peer networks to prevent selfish behavior and the tragedy of the common. Peers
adapt strategies based on the current best strategy and the best strategy in history. Each peer can
act as either a cooperator, reciprocator, or defector and would either mirror the incentive policy of
an interacting peer, serve others with a probability equal to the requester’s contribution ratio, or
pick a linear incentive policy with constant behavior. Which strategy to take is defined using a
swarm intelligence learning model. Extensive simulations evaluate the learning model against two
existing learning-based models and show a faster convergence rate towards the quasi-optimum.
“Evolutionary Stability of Reputation-Based Incentive Mechanisms in P2P Systems”. Goswami et
al. [30] propose a reputation-based incentive mechanism for resource allocation in peer-to-peer
systems. The proposed mechanism uses an entry fee to prevent free-riding and white-washing.
Nodes that keep track of reputation receive entry fees. The payout of this fee can be of versatile
forms, e.g., quality of service, but it is essential to achieve evolutionary stability. The simulation
uses evolutionary dynamics to validate the performance and the ability to motivate cooperative
behavior in any participant. A pairwise interaction game model is used to calculate each player’s
payoff.
“Trust and Cooperation in Peer-to-Peer Systems”. Jiang et al. [50] propose a simplified incentive
mechanism based on a decentralized repudiation-based trust model to prevent selfish behavior in
peer-to-peer systems. The prisoner’s dilemma is used to model the interactions in peer-to-peer
systems. Peers use direct trust, recommender trust, and indirect trust to calculate a credit score for
each interacting peer. Peers exchange trust information (Trust net) and hence, are able to calculate
a credit score even for peers they did not interact with before. A simulation of 3000 peers shows
that stable cooperation emerges after limited rounds of interaction as long as at least half of all
peers are potential cooperators.
“Applying a Socially Inspired Technique (Tags) to Improve Cooperation in P2P Networks”. Hales
and Edmonds [38] propose a tag-based incentive to improve cooperation in peer-to-peer networks.
Participants organize themselves into different groups depending on their participation level. Each
group is identified by a tag. Nodes can join and leave groups at any time, can be a member of
multiple groups, and participate in each group at a different level. Extensive computer simulations
using 200 to 51200 nodes show an efficient reduction in selfish behavior and validate the approach’s
scalability, robustness, and decentralization.
“Incentives for Combatting Freeriding on P2P Networks”. Kamvar et al. [53] propose an incentive
mechanism based on their developed “EigenTrust” score as a measure for participation to mitigate
freeriding behavior. The authors use their own “EigenTrust” score as an indicator for network
participation and base bandwidth quota and query TTL on that score. The higher the score, the
more bandwidth percentage a user receives if he or she is competing with other participants for the
bandwidth of a particular peer. Peers with a higher than average “EigenTrust” score are eligible for a
higher query TTL and thus are able to reach more peers in the network. The authors simulate their
incentive mechanism with 100 peers and find that, indeed, the “EigenTrust” score is an appropriate
indicator for participation and also reduces query load on the network. It is important to note that
free-riders are not entirely excluded from the network but can still participate in allowing those
users to become active participators if they choose to.
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 63
“An Abstract Model for Incentive-Enhanced Trust in P2P Networks”. Neovius [93] presents “an
abstract model for incentive-enhanced trust” based on a degrading formula for mutual trust in a
peer-to-peer network to mitigate free-riding and prevent the tragedy of the commons . The incen-
tive mechanism assigns increasing trust in a peer, progressively increasing access to distributed
resources. The author counters whitewashing behavior by considering a newcomer to the network
as less trustworthy than a proven untrustworthy peer. The trust value is based on a formula from
Whitby, Jøsang, and Indulska [127] and the merging of opinions about a peer. The author did not
simulate his approach.
“A Connection Management Protocol for Promoting Cooperation in Peer-to-Peer Networks”.Karakaya
et al. [56] propose an incentive mechanism to alleviate query traffic free-riding behavior in a peer-
to-peer network. They try to maximize network contributors’ connectivity and isolate free-riding
peers. The approach splits the connections of a particular peer to another one in an IN and OUT
part. The IN part represents query requests that are sent to the particular peer, and the OUT part
represents queries that this peer issues against others. The reputation value of the connected
peers is calculated according to the observed contribution. If this observed contribution does not
hold a certain threshold, the peers connect to a different peer that is a contributor. The authors
simulate their incentive mechanism with a network of 900 nodes in the GnuSim peer-to-peer
network simulation tool. The results show that the protocol indeed reduces the adverse effects on
the network quality of service. A variety of attacks are discussed as well that don’t render their
mechanism ineffective.
“Trust-Based Incentive Mechanism to Motivate Cooperation in Hybrid P2P Networks”. Tian et al.
[115] propose SuperTrust, a trust-based inventive mechanism for hybrid peer-to-peer networks.
The approach uses a referral-based reputation system for peer selection. Super-peers accumulate
all reputation scores and provide a rating that regular peers use to supplement their data. Regular
peers are grouped by interest and assigned a single super-peer. In extensive simulations (1000
peers; 20 super-peers), the resistance against a number of attacks and file retrieval performance are
evaluated.
“A Novel Bartering Exchange Ring Based Incentive Mechanism for Peer-to-Peer Systems”. Zhang and
Antonopoulos [141] propose a novel Cluster-Based Incentive Mechanism (CBIM) that uses dynamic
rings in combination with a reputation system. Peers use their local transaction information to
identify and block free riders. Peer selection works as a tit-for-tat-like reputation mechanism. The
simulation was carried out on a 1000-peer Gnutella network and showed an increase in successful
requests and drastically reduced free-riding.
“An Incentive Compatible Reputation Mechanism for P2P Systems”. Chang et al. [18] propose a
recommendation mechanism for peer-to-peer systems. Recommendation information on the level
of participation is exchanged and supplemented with the transaction history of the requesting
participant. The outcome is a level of confidence for a recommendation value and a credibility
score. A peer considers both its own past interaction and the recommendations of other peers for
its peer selection. The simulation consists of 10,000 participants, with up to 80% being dishonest,
and shows an increase in the transaction success rate compared to two related mechanisms.
“RIMNet”. Li et al. [68] proposed RIM, a reputation-based incentive mechanisms to prevent the
cooperation dilemma in peer-to-peer services. Acceptance and performance are evaluated theoreti-
cally through evolutionary game theory, and it is proven qualitatively that non-cooperative agents
can be suppressed. Additionally, numerical and simulation experiments validate the theoretical
claims. The experiment considers perfect information (PRIM) and imperfect information (IRIM)
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

64 Ihle et al.
participants and benchmarks its performance against a number of reciprocity-based incentive
mechanisms.
“An Efficient Incentive Scheme with a Distributed Authority Infrastructure in Peer-to-Peer Networks”.
Zhang et al. [143] propose an incentive scheme that employs a distributed authority infrastructure,
a key sharing protocol, and a contract verification protocol to promote cooperation and limit
the impact of maliciously colluding participants in peer-to-peer networks. The authors combine
reputation mechanisms with virtual currency. The authority infrastructure consists of a deter-
ministic, pseudo-random set of nodes that act as a delegation for a certain peer. This group is
responsible for keeping track of that said peer’s credit balance and reputation information. The key
sharing protocol ensures honest service contract negotiations employing the distributed authority
infrastructure. The authors simulate their incentive mechanism with 100 000 nodes and varying
numbers of dishonest nodes. The results led them to conclude that their approach is capable of
“solving the free-riders problem”.
“A New Incentive Policy for Improving Data Service in P2P Networks”. Zhang et al. [142] propose a
method called Wise Incentive Policy to achieve robustness and availability in peer-to-peer networks,
even with many defectors in the network. The method uses Wise-peers who refuse to provide
service to defectors but altruistically provide service to other Wise-peers. A Wise-peer is, therefore,
a mix of a cooperator and a reciprocator. The mathematical framework of Zhao et al. [145] is
used, which classifies participants as either cooperator (altruistic), defector (selfish), or reciprocator
(rational). Benchmarked against the Mirror Incentive Policy and show that the Wise Incentive
Policy can effectively prevent or exclude selfish nodes completely from a network of 500 peers.
A.4.5 Service.
“A Model for the Behaviors and Incentives of Users in a Decentralized Data-Sharing Network”.
Esfandiari et al. [26] propose a model to motivate collaboration in decentralized file-sharing
networks. Collaborative filtering is used so users can select participants with similar interests in
files. In contrast to popularity-based filtering, where the individual interest is served only when
the majority of participants have the same interest, Esfandiari’s approach does also filter files
for minority interests. The approach is validated in a NetLogo simulation using 400 files and
60 peers with different subjective preferences (taste). Active participants have a clear advantage
over free riders, and the approach shows improved resistance against attacks compared to the
popularity-based method. Rational self-organizing peers eliminate the need for a central moderation
system.
“The Problem of Upload Competition in Peer-to-Peer Systems with Incentive Mechanisms”.Meulpolder
et al. [83] propose a solution to unfair uploader competition in file-sharing networks caused by
bandwidth inequalities. In protocols like BitTorrent, it is inherently impossible for slow peers to
maintain high sharing ratios, which can cause the unjust banning of active participants from private
networks, despite their participation willingness. The proposed ratio-based upload selection mech-
anism selects uploaders with the lowest sharing ratios among the known peers of each participant.
However, it is tempting for participants to subvert the protocol and choose peers with high sharing
ratios to increase download speeds. For the validation, 1000 peers where simulated. The setup uses
centralized trackers but can be adapted to a fully distributed incentive system.
“On the Impact of Incentives in eMule - Analysis and Measurements of a Popular File-Sharing
Application”. Carra et al. [15] propose an alternative incentive for the file-sharing application eMule.
The approach is a tit-for-tat-like mechanism that uses credits to track participation. The mechanism
is validated through numerical simulation and extensive measurement on the deployment of the
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Incentive Mechanisms in Peer-to-Peer Networks — A Systematic Literature Review 65
2013 eMule/aMule system. The measurements on the state-of-the-art show starvation of peers
with little resources, causing long delays for these peers. The improved incentive mechanism that
prevents starvation is validated numerically, as well as deployed and evaluated as a modified aMule
client.
“An Adaptive Peer-to-Peer Live Streaming System with Incentives for Resilience”. Park et al. [99]
propose Climber, a cooperation mechanism for peer-to-peer live streaming systems. The approach
creates more resilience to churn and increases upload bandwidth contributions. Each peer optimizes
its communication partners by checking the TTL of each video stream package. The created shortest
streaming path is advanced using additional random edges. The more random edges a peer serves,
the higher the redundancy in providing and receiving paths. Analytical modeling and a simulation
of 3000 peers is used to validate the approach. To mechanism is tested over 10000 seconds and with
a churn rate of up to 20%.
“The Impact of Incentive Mechanisms on Project Performance”. Meng and Li [82] propose an
incentive mechanism for dynamic load balancing in structured peer-to-peer file-sharing networks.
The incentive aims to encourage peers to accept load from neighboring participants to prevent
load imbalance. Peers maintain lists of load thresholds for all connected peers. Every node provides
thresholds consistent with its capabilities. Falsely claimed capabilities results in reduced service
quality, as participants will not receive better quality of service than their capability allow. The
evaluation uses a Peersim simulation with 1000 nodes and 1000 files to prove the effectiveness and
efficiency of the load distribution of the approach.
“Quantum Game Analysis on Extrinsic Incentive Mechanisms for P2P Services”. WangSML20 et al.
propose a quantum game theoretic model for extrinsic incentive mechanisms such as reputation-
based schemes. They quantitatively analyze how the reward strength influences the optimal strategy
and expected payoff for each player. (No incentive mechanism)
“A Novel Bilateral Incentive Mechanism Based on Social Relation and Evolutionary Game Theory”.
In [128], Wong et al. present the “Novel Bilateral Incentive Mechanism” to restrain free-riders and
generally malicious nodes in the original BitTorrent network. Their main idea is to extend the
network with an identification mechanism to make participants accountable for their potential
misbehavior. The identification system should be managed by the tracker nodes prevalent in the
BitTorrent network. The main mechanism to stipulate cooperation is by orchestrating bandwidth
assignment. Suppose a node is identified to be misbehaving by not sharing its own bandwidth or
sharing malicious files. In that case, the tracker is notified that the node is only allowed a decreased
bandwidth for its own requested service.
“Cooperation and Strategy Coexistence in a Tag-Based Multi-Agent System with Contingent Mo-
bility”. Hadzibeganovic and Xia [37] use game theory, evolutionary computing, and agent-based
simulation to validate their tag-mediated cooperation model for peer-to-peer networks. The model
analyzed the mobility patterns of participants on an abstract level using a toroidal lattice of 10,000
nodes. Instead of an incentive for typical pay-off-based migration, reproduction-based migrations
are used. The simulations show improved robustness over pay-off-based migration and the capa-
bility of integrating new participants quickly. Although the model is applicable to peer-to-peer
networks like MANET and DTN, the game theoretical analysis lacks a practical implementation
and evaluation of the incentive mechanism.
“Adaptive, Incentive and Scalable Dynamic Tree Overlay for P2P Live Video Streaming”. Sayit et
al. [105] propose a system to improve the quality of experience in the video streaming domain
under high peer churn conditions. They devise a mechanism whose incentive is based on a scalable
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

66 Ihle et al.
video codec that entangles video quality with bandwidth capacity or the network congestion level.
Since their main contribution is a multicast tree framework with an incentive mechanism as a
byproduct, their experiments did not focus on, e.g., free-riders, as seen in many other papers
we investigated. Nevertheless, they conducted experiments with a maximum of 150 nodes in the
PlanetLab environment and reported that their system provides “high” Quality of Experience to
the peers.
“Relative MTTF-Based Incentive Scheme for A vailability-Based Replication in P2P Systems”. Kim
[59] proposes a mechanism to ensure certain data availability guarantees in the presence of selfish
and unreliable participants in a peer-to-peer network. The author introduces a relative mean time
to failure metric that captures the probability of a neighboring node being online longer than
oneself. Nodes calculate their mean time to failure and exchange this information together with
their network-join-time by piggybacking keep-alive messages between neighbors. This information
is used to calculate the relative mean time to failure that is used to determine how and when data
replicas need to be distributed. While the metrics of the authors increase replica availability, their
metric cannot be considered an incentive but rather an indicator for smart data distribution to
prevent data loss in the case when all nodes that replicate data leave the system.
“Share-Ratio-Based Incentive Mechanism for File Sharing With BitTorrent Protocol”. Adamu [1]
proposes a service incentive for BitTorrent file sharing. The approach uses each peer’s individual
share ratio to deny-list free-riding peers, encourage cooperation, and provide fairness for new
participants. Deny-listing is conducted by tracker peers. A peer can hence only retrieve data if it is
providing data at the same time. No reputation value is maintained; only the just-in-time share ratio
is considered. Young peers need to ramp up their share-ration incrementally, such as only small
data chunks are provided initially. Simulations using PeerSim and 80 peers are used to validate the
effectiveness of deny-listing free-riding peers and fair cooperation.
A.4.6 Undefined Payoff Scheme.
“A Formal Model Based on Game Theory for the Analysis of Cooperation in Distributed Service
Discovery”. Martínez-Cánovas et al. [80] propose a repeated game model to analyze under which
circumstances cooperation among rational agents emerges for distributed service discovery. The
authors anticipate a reward for forwarding search queries and weigh that against the cost of these
actions. They stay on an abstract level and don’t specify a concrete type of reward but repeatedly
speak of payoffs, so it is reasonable to assume that a virtual currency was intended. Their game
theoretical model facilitates the repeated game framework to formalize the agents’ interactions and
analyze when cooperation is in a stable state of the system. They tested the model by numerical
simulations, determined when the strategy reaches a Nash equilibrium and found out that there
are reward values that stimulate cooperation but don’t lead to an overall positive average utility
value of the system.
A.5 Primary Review Paper Selection
ACM Comput. Surv., Vol. 56, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2023.

Citation Key Sim DOI
Not Primary Research
IM Core Contribution
Computational Resources
Decentralized
ChenSPA20 10.1016/j.ipm.2020.102370
SunLYW20 10.1109/TWC.2020.2999721
ShenTGQ20 10.1007/s11761-020-00297-8
FangSWL20 10.1016/j.ins.2019.07.030
LuoCZC20 10.1109/TWC.2020.2967371
WangSML20 10.1109/TPDS.2019.2933416
ZhangZ20 10.1109/TIFS.2019.2955891
YanCFQ20 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2979323
FanYL20 10.1016/j.elerap.2019.100897
KangXNX19 10.1109/JIOT.2019.2940820
LinLWL19 10.1109/TII.2019.2917307
HaqF20 10.1007/s11276-019-02167-4
RajuC19 10.1007/s10586-017-1607-8
LiJGL19 10.1016/j.knosys.2018.12.024
LiuZ19 10.1186/s13638-019-1340-5
WongLEW19 10.3966/160792642019092005011
MousaviK19 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2909740
ZhangZY18 10.1007/s11277-018-5438-6
AslaniHD18 10.1007/s11042-017-5051-9
LiZXZ18 10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2883316
HeLCL18 10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2821705
JenaSP18 10.1080/03155986.2017.1361198
JulesS17 10.1109/TSMC.2016.2578879
TampuuMKK17 10.1371/journal.pone.0172395
PadhariyaMMK17 Subscription 65$
KangY17 10.1016/j.comnet.2017.01.005
NasabB17 ISSN: 1692-343X
EsfandiariFKT17 10.3233/WEB-170360
LuWCL17 10.1109/ACCESS.2016.2630736
CorazzaDG16 10.1109/TVT.2016.2530702
LuWXW16 10.1016/j.knosys.2016.09.002
HadzibeganovicX16 10.1016/j.knosys.2016.08.024
SayitDKT16 10.1007/s12083-015-0390-7
Kim16 10.1002/ett.3078
XuSG16 10.1109/TVT.2015.2472289
PadhariyaMM16 10.1007/s12083-015-0391-6

Citation Key Sim DOI
Not Primary Research
IM Core Contribution
Computational Resources
Decentralized
GoncalvesCVA16 10.1007/s00530-014-0434-5
IsmailQS16 10.1109/TVT.2015.2409191
GuoKJD16 10.1007/s11227-016-1648-4
JainKG16 10.1109/TWC.2015.2480392
ZhaoCYH16 10.4018/IJWSR.2016010101
MengLHW16 10.1007/s11277-015-3118-3
MartinezCanovasDBH16 10.1016/j.ins.2015.06.043
CuiLWR15 10.1002/cpe.3207
XinKangY15 10.1109/TMC.2014.2343628
JinK15 10.1016/j.comnet.2015.02.006
KurveGMK15 10.1007/s12083-013-0206-6
ZuoZ14 10.1002/dac.2556
ZouC14 10.1007/s11042-013-1621-7
HuWZW14 10.1007/s12083-013-0198-2
TianYZL14 10.1016/j.comnet.2014.08.010
DeSalesMAP14 10.1109/TCE.2014.7027333
JinTengBXZ14 10.1109/TPDS.2013.158
ChangPXW14 10.1007/s11227-014-1204-z
delValRB14 10.1080/01969722.2014.894848
AriasCabarcosAGM14 10.1007/s11277-013-1338-y
WeijieWuML14 10.1109/TPDS.2013.94
WangCC14 10.1109/TWC.2013.120413.130670
XianzhongXHB13 10.1109/CC.2013.6723885
LinYYC13 10.1080/00207721.2012.670295
CarraMSS13 10.1109/JSAC.2013.SUP.0513009
KimSCI13 10.1109/TWC.2013.071913.121996
HuDLW13 10.1016/j.future.2012.08.008
HongXuB13 10.1109/TMC.2012.62
PadhariyaMMK13 10.1016/j.comcom.2013.01.012
MeulpolderME13 10.1002/cpe.2856
delValRB13 10.1016/j.jss.2012.09.031
MasegosaPV13 10.1016/j.ins.2012.07.002
DingHWS13 10.1080/18756891.2013.761777
BelmonteDPR13 10.1016/j.jnca.2012.04.010
ZhangA13 10.1016/j.future.2011.06.005
ZhangCMY12 10.1016/j.jpdc.2012.08.003

Citation Key Sim DOI
Not Primary Research
IM Core Contribution
Computational Resources
Decentralized
PalomarARZ12 10.1016/j.comnet.2012.08.012
NoroozOliaeeHG12 10.1109/TWC.2012.080212.101834
GramagliaUM12 10.1016/j.comcom.2012.04.017
RiusECS12 10.1016/j.simpat.2012.02.007
ZhaoLC12 10.1109/TNET.2011.2161770
WuCW12 10.1109/LCOMM.2012.012412.112200
VakiliK12 10.1016/j.jnca.2011.11.004
WuLQL12 10.1145/2089085.2089091
TaghipourF12 10.1080/0951192X.2011.646307
WangNVM11 10.1016/j.comnet.2011.07.011
OkamotoTT11 10.1587/transcom.E94.B.2732
RahmanVHP11 10.1145/2043164.2018458
ZhouGJN10 10.1587/transcom.E93.B.3656
YangSZ10 10.1631/jzus.C0910727
XiaoSuD10 10.1109/MIC.2010.119
MondalKK10 10.1007/s10619-010-7063-6
ParkPK10 10.1016/j.comnet.2009.10.022
AllenCW10 10.1145/1671948.1671952
SirivianosXJ09 10.1109/TNET.2009.2021655
LiYS09 10.1016/j.elerap.2009.04.007
WangYL09 10.1109/LCOMM.2009.091519
MondalMK09 10.1007/s12083-009-0035-9
PeltaCG09 10.1002/int.20363
ContrerasGAM09 10.1016/j.dss.2008.12.005
LinZL09 10.1109/TMM.2009.2012915
SharpSS09 10.1109/TCOMM.2009.0901.070003
SatoHYS08 10.1093/ietcom/e91-b.12.3821
LijuanXiaoYNZ08 10.1109/TPDS.2007.70791
GuangTanJ08 10.1109/TPDS.2007.70778
Manzatod08 10.1007/s12083-007-0004-0
KarakayaKU08 10.1016/j.comcom.2007.08.010
LianPYZ08 10.1002/cpe.1190
PianesePKB07 10.1109/TMM.2007.907466
DeshpandeL07 10.1007/s10514-007-9044-9
KooL00 10.1007/s11235-006-9021-1
MaLLY06 10.1109/TNET.2006.882904

Citation Key Sim DOI
Not Primary Research
IM Core Contribution
Computational Resources
Decentralized
HabibC06 10.1109/tmm.2006.870724
CourcoubetisW06 10.1109/JSAC.2006.872885
LeeK06 10.1016/j.robot.2005.11.005
PapaioannouS06 10.1016/j.comnet.2005.07.024
XueLN06 10.1002/wcm.383
Yang06 10.1007/11839569
KazatzopoulosDMG06 10.1108/10662240610656500
HalesE05 10.1109/TSMCA.2005.846399
Neovius05 10.1007/11596042_63
NandiNSD05 10.1007/11587552_14
PadmanabhanRP05 10.1007/11558989_8
AntoniadisCM04 10.1016/j.comnet.2004.03.021
YuS04 10.1007/978-3-540-25840-7_9
ObreiterN00
JiangBW04 10.1007/978-3-540-24679-4_72
GuptaS04 10.1007/978-3-540-30474-6_7
LinL04 10.1007/978-3-540-25978-7_22
EssmannHSB04 10.1007/978-3-540-30545-3_2
PenseriniLMP03 10.1007/3-540-45074-2_9
WangL03 10.1007/3-540-44884-5_10
BalzarottiGM02 10.1007/3-540-45745-3_21
GouLK98 10.1016/S0166-3615(98)00100-6
WangB97 10.1016/S0167-9236(96)00045-0
TamuraHS01 10.1541/ieejeiss1987.121.6_1035
AdamidesB93 10.5555/647133.716654
GoswamiPG18 10.1109/LCOMM.2017.2777854
Wang18a 10.1504/IJCNDS.2018.089770
HaddiB15 10.1016/j.jnca.2015.09.004
WeihengNiX15 10.1109/TCOMM.2015.2404777
WangCG14 10.1007/s12083-012-0155-5
WuLGW14 10.1016/j.jnca.2013.10.006
MengL13 10.1016/j.compeleceng.2013.07.006
CentenoBH13 10.1016/j.engappai.2012.10.001
MontazeriAG12 10.1007/s12083-011-0121-7
LiLW12 10.1016/j.jss.2012.03.029
ZhaoYL12 10.1016/j.jnca.2011.03.011

Citation Key Sim DOI
Not Primary Research
IM Core Contribution
Computational Resources
Decentralized
XiaoZSG12 10.1109/TPDS.2011.167
ShenLXL11 10.1016/j.jnca.2010.06.003
WangNVM11a 10.1016/j.comcom.2010.01.021
Kim10a 10.1587/transinf.E93.D.3403
LiuPLC10 10.1007/s12083-009-0043-9
BianchiniMAB10 10.1007/s11280-009-0080-6
ChengLJM06 10.1007/11807964_2
BenayouneL04 10.1007/978-3-540-30197-4_33
KamvarSG03 10.1007/978-3-540-45209-6_171
PalKTM22 10.1186/s13677-022-00280-y
LuQQL22 10.1109/TMC.2020.3008315
ZhangDMY21 10.14778/3476311.3476313
YanMCY21 10.1016/j.cor.2020.105130
XuLSL21 10.1109/JIOT.2020.3025151
SinghaS21 10.1007/s12083-021-01086-6
RiahlaGTH21 10.4018/IJBDCN.286704
PanD21 10.1155/2021/9947360
HeTF21 10.1108/DTA-08-2020-0181
BaiDL21 10.1155/2021/7500639
AokiLR21 10.1109/MCOM.001.2001241
AnsariPGA21 10.1007/s11042-021-10709-2
AlRidhawiAJ21 10.1145/3419104
Adamu21 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3092277
WeiWL20 10.3390/electronics9020215
MalikK20 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3046097
AslNajafiYN22 10.1016/j.compind.2021.103582
LiuJ20 10.1108/IMDS-05-2020-0295
BhattacharyaG20 10.4018/IJSSCI.2020010104
LinWBL22 10.1109/JIOT.2020.3024246
ThiKimLSN22 10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3170709
ZenggangXXS22 10.1007/s11265-022-01768-1
JaimanPU22 10.1371/journal.pone.0266624
HuangZWL22 10.23919/JCC.2022.07.022