Analyzing Group Chat Encryption in
MLS, Session, Signal, and Matrix
Joseph Jaeger
 and Akshaya Kumar
School of Cybersecurity and Privacy
Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia, US
{josephjaeger,akshayakumar}@gatech.edu
https://cc.gatech.edu/∼josephjaeger/
https://cc.gatech.edu/∼akumar805/
25 March 2025
Abstract. We analyze the composition of symmetric encryption and digital signatures in secure
group messaging protocols where group members share a symmetric encryption key. In particular,
we analyze the chat encryption algorithms underlying MLS, Session, Signal, and Matrix using
the formalism of symmetric signcryption introduced by Jaeger, Kumar, and Stepanovs (Eurocrypt
2024). We identify theoretical attacks against each of the constructions we analyze that result from
the insufficient binding between the symmetric encryption scheme and the digital signature scheme.
In the case of MLS and Session, these translate into practically exploitable replay and reordering
attacks by a group-insider. For Signal this leads to a forgery attack by a group-outsider with access
to a user’s signing key, an attack previously discovered by Balbás, Collins, and Gajland (Asiacrypt
2023). In Matrix there are mitigations in the broader ecosystem that prevent exploitation. We
provide formal security theorems that each of the four constructions are secure up to these attacks.
Additionally, in Session we identified two attacks outside the symmetric signcryption model. The
first allows a group-outsider with access to an exposed signing key to forge arbitrary messages and
the second allows outsiders to replay ciphertexts.

Contents
1 Introduction .................................................................................... 3
1.1 Our Contributions ................................................................................ 4
2 Preliminaries ................................................................................... 6
2.1 Standard (Multi-key) Security Notions.......................................................... 6
3 Symmetric Signcryption....................................................................... 8
3.1 Symmetric Signcryption Definitions............................................................. 8
3.2 Secure Constructions and the Importance of Binding.......................................... 11
4 Analysis of Sign-then-Encrypt Constructions............................................... 13
4.1 MLS................................................................................................ 13
4.2 Session ............................................................................................. 18
5 Analysis of Encrypt-then-Sign Constructions............................................... 21
5.1 Signal .............................................................................................. 22
5.2 Matrix ............................................................................................. 25
6 Conclusions ..................................................................................... 27
A Notation and Standard Definitions .......................................................... 30
A.1 Notation ........................................................................................... 30
A.2 Standard primitives............................................................................... 30
B Proofs for MLS................................................................................. 32
B.1 In-group UnForgeability of MLS-StE (Proof of Theorem 1) ................................... 32
B.2 Out-group Authenticated Encryption of MLS-StE (Proof of Theorem 2) .................... 34
C Proofs for Session .............................................................................. 37
C.1 In-group UnForgeability of SesLG-StE (Proof of Theorem 3).................................. 37
C.2 Out-group Authenticated Encryption of SesLG-StE (Proof of Theorem 4)................... 39
D Proofs for Signal ............................................................................... 41
D.1 In-group UnForgeability of Sig-EtS (Proof of Theorem 5) ..................................... 41
D.2 Out-group Authenticated Encryption of Sig-EtS (Proof of Theorem 6) ...................... 43
E Proofs for Matrix .............................................................................. 47
E.1 In-group UnForgeability of Mat-EtS (Proof of Theorem 7).................................... 47
E.2 Out-group Authenticated Encryption of Mat-EtS (Proof of Theorem 8) ..................... 49

1 Introduction
Secure messaging applications have been widely deployed to protect the everyday conversations of bil-
lions of users worldwide. These applications — including WhatsApp, Signal, and iMessage — use different
cryptographic algorithms to provide varying privacy and authenticity guarantees. Due to their widespread
usage, particularly in sensitive contexts like protests and conflicts, analyzing the security of these appli-
cations has been the focus of numerous academic works [AMPS22, ACD19, BS20, BFG+22, CGCD+17,
DFG+23, FG24, RMS18]. Oftentimes, these works provide formal statements and accompanying proofs of
security. However, as argued by Albrecht and Paterson [AP24], formal proofs do not necessarily guarantee
absolute security: they are bounded by the assumptions and threat models chosen in a particular study.
Vulnerabilities may still exist in a system that has been “proven secure”.
In this work, we analyze the cryptographic cores of the group chat encryption algorithms underlying
four popular group messaging applications — the Messaging Layer Security (MLS) standard [BBR+23],
Session[Sesa],Signal[Sig],andMatrix[Mata].Weformallymodelandanalyzethecompositionofsymmet-
ric encryption and digital signatures within these applications using the symmetric signcryption primitive
of Jaeger, Kumar, and Stepanovs (JKS24) [JKS24]. Although MLS, Signal, and Matrix have been an-
alyzed in prior works [ACDJ23, ADJ24, ACDT21, BCG23] that identified weaknesses in the respective
applications and gave formal statements about their security, we discover novel flaws in these construc-
tions. Additionally, to the best of our knowledge, we are the first to formalize and analyze Session’s group
chat encryption.1 We identify a total of fourteen theoretical attacks against these applications and show
that six of these attacks — against MLS, Session, and Signal — are practically exploitable by a sufficiently
motivated attacker. Finally, for each implementation, we formally state and prove the security guarantees
that they achieve (roughly, we prove security up to theoretical attacks).
Group messaging. Secure (group) messaging protocols can be viewed as a composition of two primi-
tives: key agreement and chat encryption. In the simplest two party setting, the Double Ratchet [MP16]
algorithm is considered the gold standard for realizing key agreement. It asynchronously establishes a
continuously evolving symmetric key between two users such that each message sent in the chat is en-
crypted with a fresh symmetric key. The keys derived by the Double Ratchet algorithm are then used by
the chat encryption primitive, which is realized using an authenticated encryption scheme. Together, they
provide advanced security guarantees like forward security and post-compromise security in addition to
privacy and authenticity.
In contrast to the two party setting, secure group messaging apps operate in a dynamic environment
where members are continuously added or removed from the group. This poses significant challenges when
scaling the two-party protocol to groups larger than two users. For example, realizing key agreement in
groups by simply running the Double-Ratchet algorithm pairwise between all group members results in
a quadratic communication complexity, which quickly becomes impractical for large groups. In order to
improve the efficiency of group messaging apps whilst providing as many guarantees of the two-party
setting as possible, protocols like the Sender Keys [Mar14] and TreeKEM [BBR18] have emerged. While
these protocols improve the efficiency of end-to-end encrypted group chats, they are complex, involving
many mutually interacting cryptographic components. This complicates formal analysis and increases the
likelihood of implementation bugs. Given these challenges, how can we determine if a group messaging
application is secure?
Analyzing group messaging protocols . As mentioned earlier, secure group messaging protocols can
be broken down into the key agreement primitive and the chat encryption primitive. A comprehensive
security analysis not only requires analyzing both components individually, but also their composition
and the public key infrastructure that manages user identities within the protocol. Most prior work on
group messaging security has focused on analyzing the key agreement primitive, as it is the more “novel”
component. Due to the inherent complexities, few works attempt to rigorously analyze an application
as a whole, and even fewer focus on the chat encryption primitive specifically. We bridge this gap by
narrowly analyzing chat encryption in widely deployed protocols.
1 We analyzed Session’s Legacy Groups protocol which was deployed at the time of writing. It has since been
replaced by the GroupsV2 protocol.
3

Chat encryption in groups . Chat encryption in groups does not follow directly from chat encryption
in the two-party setting — another challenge with extending the two-party protocol to groups. In the
two-party setting, each message is encrypted and implicitly authenticated using a shared symmetric key
and an authenticated encryption scheme.
Now consider a group messaging protocol where members of a group share a symmetric key. The pro-
tocol could use the shared key along with an authenticated encryption scheme to encrypt messages from a
sender to the group. While this would prevent attacks from outside the group, members could still imper-
sonate each other. This is particularly concerning in settings where messaging apps are used to organize
large-scale protests using groups so large that the government/dictator/adversary can easily infiltrate the
group. In such a case, confidentiality against the adversary is unrealistic, but we would still want that a
group-insider cannot impersonate another group member. A natural way to prevent group members from
impersonating each other is to use digital signatures. Consequently, group messaging protocols compose
symmetric encryption with digital signatures to provide privacy, integrity, and sender authenticity. These
compositions are similar to those of signcryption [ADR02], the primitive that captures the joint security
of public-key encryption and digital signatures. Inspired by signcryption, JKS24 introduced symmetric
signcryption to jointly capture the security of symmetric encryption and digital signatures.
Symmetric signcryption. The symmetric signcryption primitive captures chat encryption in group
messaging protocols in a setting where each user possesses a signing key pair, and all users in a group share
a single symmetric encryption key. In addition to the shared symmetric key and the sender’s signing key,
the defining algorithmsSigEnc and VerDec both take explicit sender and group (key) identities, nonces,
and associated data as inputs. The original definition intended for the symmetric key to be long-term.
However, in the protocols we analyze, the shared symmetric keys are meant to be used exactly once and
then are immediately replaced with a fresh shared symmetric key. These protocols can still be modeled
using symmetric signcryption if we assume that symmetric keys are independently generated and each
key is used only once, allowing them to be viewed as a collection of “one-time-use” symmetric signcryption
schemes.
Symmetric signcryption defines two security notions: In-group Unforgeability (IUF) and Out-group
Authenticated Encryption (OAE). The former requires the unforgeability of messages sent by users whose
signing keys are unknown to the adversary, even if the adversary can assign arbitrary symmetric keys
to groups. The latter ensures confidentiality and integrity against an adversary that does not know the
group’s symmetric key even if the adversary is allowed to maliciously pick each user’s signing keys. We
use symmetric signcryption to analyze chat encryption in MLS, Session, Signal, and Matrix.
1.1 Our Contributions
We model the chat encryption algorithms underlying MLS, Session, Signal, and Matrix as symmetric
signcryption schemes and analyze their IUF and OAE security. We summarize the results of our analysis
in Tables 1 and 2. The first two columns of these tables present our main takeaways.
Our IUF analysis reveals practically exploitable insider replay attacks against MLS and Session. The
attack allows a malicious group member to replay messages originally sent by an honest member, thereby
impersonating them to the group.2 Our OAE security analysis identifies two practically exploitable at-
tacks, one against Session and the other against Signal. The attack against Session allows an external
adversary to replay ciphertexts from a group member, causing other group members to interpret the
replayed ciphertexts as new messages. The attack against Signal allows an external attacker to forge
ciphertexts to a group by modifying honest ciphertexts created within the group. The last two columns
of the tables provide explanations for why each implementation is susceptible to these attacks, which we
will discuss after describing the notion of binding in symmetric signcryption.
Implicit and explicit binding . The term binding was first introduced in [ADR02] for (asymmetric)
signcryption,whichcombinespublic-keyencryptionanddigitalsignatures.Itshowedthatnaivelycompos-
ing (public-key) encryption with signatures does not yield secure constructions in the multi-user setting.
2 MLS divides time into epochs that change when users are added/removed from the group or otherwise update
their secrets. Our attack allows replaying within an epoch.
4

Application Practical attacks IUF security Signature binding
g n ad
MLS ✓ weak ✗ ✗ explicit
Session ✓ weak ✗ implicit N/A
Signal ✗ strong explicit N/A explicit
Matrix ✗ weak implicit implicit explicit
Table 1: Results of our IUF security analysis. MLS and Session are vulnerable to insider replay attacks
due to the lack of binding between the signature and the group (key) identifier.
Application Practical attacks OAE Security Ctxt binding
u
MLS ✗ weak implicit
Session ✓∗ weak implicit
Signal ✓∗∗ weak implicit
Matrix ✗ weak implicit
Table 2: Results of our OAE security analysis. Session is susceptible to outsider replay and forgery attacks
that are not captured by the OAE security game. Signal is vulnerable to outsider forgery attacks due to
the use of a symmetric encryption scheme that does not provide ciphertext integrity.
To make the constructions secure, it is important to bind the two components by signing the recipient’s
identity and encrypting the sender’s identity.
Intuitively, naively composing symmetric encryption and digital signatures for symmetric signcryption
would also be insecure, requiring similar countermeasures. The two secure constructions of JKS24 bind
the group (key) identifier, the nonce, and the associated data to the signature, and bind the sender
identifier to the symmetric ciphertext. We show that these bindings are necessary for a construction to
be secure by sketching attacks that would result from the lack of proper binding. During our analysis, we
check whether constructions properly bind the underlying components. Whenever a construction fails to
do so, we analyze the potential real-world consequences of the corresponding attacks.
The lack of explicit binding does not always lead to a practical attack against the protocol. Sometimes,
the components are implicitly bound by virtue of the inputs that the symmetric signcryption scheme is
invoked on within a protocol. We say that a signature produced in a symmetric signcryption scheme
implicitly binds to the group (key) identifierg, nonce n, or associated data ad if these values can be
uniquely derived from the input to the signature scheme, even if they are not individually and explicitly
signed. Similarly, we say that a ciphertext implicitly binds to the sender identifieru if the identifier can
be uniquely derived from the inputs to the symmetric encryption scheme.
The last two columns of the Tables 1 and 2 justify the existence of practical attacks by pointing out
the corresponding lack of binding. In MLS and Session, the insider replay attacks result from the lack of
binding between the signature and the group (key) identifier. The outsider attacks against Session and
Signal are not due to the lack of proper binding. In Session, an outsider can replay ciphertexts because
every ciphertext sent in a Session group chat contains an unauthenticated timestamp which is used to
detect replays. An outsider can modify the timestamp and replay the ciphertext. Additionally, an outsider
who has compromised an honest member’s signing keys can forge a ciphertext to a group because Session
5

uses public keys as group identifiers. The outsider forgery attack against Signal is due to the use of a
symmetric encryption scheme that does not provide ciphertext integrity.
A positive finding regarding MLS is that the identified insider replay attack can be easily mitigated
by including the message generation3 as part of the input to the signature scheme. The current protocol
specification facilitates this solution as it already requires the associated data to be signed, and the
contentsoftheassociateddataarelefttothediscretionofindividualimplementations.Soimplementations
canincludethemessagegenerationintheassociateddatawhilestillremainingcompliantwiththeprotocol
specification.4
Insider Security Notions . The IUF security definition requires unforgeability of ciphertexts even
against group members. As mentioned earlier, this is a practical assumption in large groups that the
adversary can easily infiltrate. Moreover the MLS architecture document [BRO+24] explicitly aims to
achieve privacy and authenticity in the face of malicious insiders. Yet, formal definitions for the insider
security of group messaging protocols have not been considered by most of the prior works [ACDJ23,
ACDT20, ACJM20, BCG23, KPPW+21]. The definitions for the insider security of the key agreement
primitive underlying MLS [AJM22] take the first step in bridging this gap. Our work further motivates
the need for insider security notions by presenting exploitable attacks in real-world settings.
Related work. Chat encryption in MLS, Signal, and Matrix has been formally analyzed as part of
the comprehensive analyses of the respective group messaging protocols. In particular, chat encryption
in MLS was studied in [ACDT21] where it was modeled as an Encrypt-then-Sign construction, whereas
the current protocol specification [BBR+23] defines it as a Sign-then-Encrypt construction to hide the
sender’s identity from the server. Signal and Matrix were analyzed by [BCG23] as part of a broader and
general analysis of group messaging applications that use the Sender Keys protocol, with the focus being
on formalizing Sender Keys-like protocols rather than any specific application implementation. Matrix
was also analyzed by [ADJ24] where the Device-Oriented Group Messaging model defined therein was
used to show that it achieves the basic confidentiality and integrity properties. None of these works
consider insider security notions.
2 Preliminaries
We provide notation, conventions, and define standard primitives in Appendix A.
2.1 Standard (Multi-key) Security Notions
We define our security games in the multi-key setting, using the notion of key-management oracles
presented by JKS24. Our asymmetric games provide the adversary with a set of user oracles U =
{NewHonUser, ExposeUser, NewCorrUser} and symmetric games provide a set of group oracles
G ={NewHonGroup, ExposeGroup, NewCorrGroup}. These oracles allow an adversary to create
honest keys, expose existing honest keys, and register corrupt keys of the adversary’s choice. Exposed keys
are marked as corrupted after the exposure.5 We prepend an oracle withSim to denote its simulation in
a reduction.
IND-CPA security of nonce-based encryption schemes . We define the security gameG IND-CPA for
a nonce-based encryption scheme NE and an adversaryAIND-CPA in Fig. 1. The advantage ofAIND-CPA
against the IND-CPA security ofNE is given byAdvIND-CPA
NE (AIND-CPA) = 2 · Pr[G IND-CPA
NE (AIND-CPA)]− 1.
3 MLS uses the termgeneration to denote the index of messages sent by a user in a group during a particular
epoch.
4 Including the generation in the associated data will leak the generation to an outsider since the associated data
is sent in plain. This may introduce privacy risks. For example, an outsider may be able to determine if a user
is a frequent sender or not.
5 The difference between exposing an honest user and creating a corrupt user is that in the former, the keys
are sampled from the appropriate key distribution and subsequently revealed to the adversary, whereas in the
latter, the adversary has the ability to maliciously select the corresponding keys.
6

Game G IND-CPA
NE (AIND-CPA)
b←${0, 1}
b′←$AG,Enc
IND-CPA
Return b = b′
Game G AEAD
NE (AAEAD)
b←${0, 1}
b′←$AG,Enc,Dec
AEAD
Return b = b′
Enc(g, n, m0, m1, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and|m0| =|m1|
require (g, n)̸∈ N
If m0̸= m1 then
If group is corrupt[g] then return⊥
chal[g]← true
c← NE.Enc(K[g], n, mb, ad)
N← N∪{ (g, n)}
C← C∪{ (g, n, c, ad)} ; Return c
Dec(g, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬group is corrupt[g]
require (g, n, c, ad)̸∈ C
m← NE.Dec(K[g], n, c, ad)
If b = 0 then return⊥ else return m
NewHonGroup(g)
require K [g] =⊥
K[g]←${0, 1}NE.kl
ExposeGroup(g)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬chal[g]
group is corrupt[g]← true
Return K[g]
NewCorrGroup(g, K)
require K [g] =⊥
group is corrupt[g]← true
K[g]← K
Fig.1: Games G IND-CPA and G AEAD defining theIND-CPAsecurity and theAEAD security of a nonce-based
encryption scheme NE. The group oraclesG ={NewHonGroup, ExposeGroup, NewCorrGroup}
and the encryption oracleEnc are provided to an adversary in both games; the decryption oracleDec
is only provided in the latter.
The gameG IND-CPA samples a bitb and requires the adversary to guess it. It is given access to the group
oracles G to manageNE keys. The oracleEnc takes a group key identifierg, a noncen, challenge messages
m0 and m1, and associated data ad and returns the encryption ofmb under the given parameters. To
prevent trivial wins, a group cannot be exposed after it has been queried toEnc on m0̸= m1, and calls
to Enc on exposed groups must satisfym0 = m1. We disallow nonce-repetition by requiring that(g, n)
is unique across all queries toEnc.
AEAD security of nonce-based encryption schemes .TheAEADsecuritygame G AEAD foranonce-
based encryption schemeNE and an adversaryAAEAD is shown in Fig. 1. The advantage ofAAEAD against
the AEAD security of NE is given by AdvAEAD
NE (AAEAD) = 2 · Pr[G AEAD
NE (AAEAD)]− 1. The game G AEAD
samples a bitb and requires the adversary to guess it. It is given access to the group oraclesG to manage
NE keys. The encryption oracleEnc is the same as the corresponding oracle inG IND-CPA. The decryption
oracle Dec takes (g, n, c, ad) as inputs and returns the value ofNE.Dec(K[g], n, c, ad) if b = 1 and⊥
otherwise following the style of [RS06, Shr04]. To prevent trivial wins it prevents the adversary from
querying corrupt groups or previous outputs ofEnc. For encryption schemes withNE.AD ={ε}, this
definition captures the authenticated encryption security gameG AE.
Capturing IV-based encryption schemes . We use the same syntax that we defined for nonce-based
encryption schemes for random-IV-based encryption schemes — a trick originally pointed out by Rog-
away [Rog04]. Then we capture theirIND-CPAand AEAD security by restricting to the class of adversaries
that we define below.
Let ANE
$-IV be the class of all adversaries of the formA[B] defined as follows.
AdversaryA[B]G,Enc,Dec
b′←$BG,SimEnc,Dec
Return b′
SimEnc(g, m, ad)
IV ←${0, 1}NE.nl
c← Enc(g, n = IV, m, ad)
Return c∥ IV
7

SUFCMA security of digital signature schemes . The strong unforgeability game G SUFCMA for a
digital signature scheme DS and an adversaryASUFCMA is shown in Fig. 2. The advantage ofASUFCMA
against theSUFCMAsecurity ofDSis given byAdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA) = Pr[G SUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA)]. Adversary
ASUFCMA has access to the user oracles to manage signing and verification keys. Additionally, it can query
the Sign oracle which takes a useru and a messagem and returns a signatures on m under sk[u]. The
adversary is required to produce a signature for an honestu that wasn’t previously returned bySign.6
Game G SUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA)
(u, m, s)←$AU,Sign
SUFCMA ; If vk[u] =⊥ then return false
win1←¬ user is corrupt[u] ; win2← ((u, m, s)̸∈ S)
win3← DS.Ver(vk[u], m, s)
Return win1 and win2 and win3
Sign(u, m)
require sk [u]̸=⊥
s←$ DS.Sig(sk[u], m)
S← S∪{ (u, m, s)}
Return s
NewHonUser(u)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
(sk[u], vk[u])←$ DS.Kg
Return vk[u]
ExposeUser(u)
require sk [u]̸=⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
Return sk[u]
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
sk[u]← sk ; vk[u]← vk
Fig.2: Game defining strong unforgeability of a digital signature schemeDS, whereU ={NewHonUser,
ExposeUser, NewCorrUser}.
3 Symmetric Signcryption
In this section, we recall the syntax and security definitions for symmetric signcryption schemes. We
then discuss the secure Sign-then-Encrypt and Encrypt-then-Sign constructions proposed by JKS24. In
particular, we enumerate the various types of bindings required by these constructions and describe
attacks against different security notions that result from the absence of any of these bindings. In our
analysis of different applications throughout this work, we use the secure constructions of JKS24 as
a benchmark, identifying attacks that arise from the lack of binding within the underlying symmetric
signcryption schemes.
3.1 Symmetric Signcryption Definitions
In symmetric signcryption, a group of users share a symmetric key and each user additionally possesses
their own signing key pair. To send a message in the group, a user encrypts the message using the shared
symmetric group key and authenticates it using their individual signing key.
Syntax. We recall the syntax for a symmetric signcryption schemeSS in Fig. 3. In addition,SS specifies
a group key length SS.gkl∈ N, a nonce space SS.NS, and an associated data space SS.AD. The user
key generation algorithm SS.UserKg outputs a pair of keys(sk, vk) where sk is the signing key andvk
is the corresponding verification key. The signcryption algorithmSS.SigEnc takes as input a group key
identifier g ∈ {0, 1}∗, the corresponding symmetric group key Kg ∈ {0, 1}SS.gkl, the sender identifier
u∈{ 0, 1}∗, the sender’s signing keysku, a noncen∈ SS.NS, a messagem∈{ 0, 1}∗, and associated data
ad∈ SS.AD, and outputs a ciphertextc.7 The deterministic unsigncryption algorithmSS.VerDec takes
the tuple(g, Kg, u, vku, n, c, ad) as input wherevku is the sender’s verification key, and outputs a message
m∈{ 0, 1}∗∪{⊥} where⊥ indicates failure to recover the message.
6 In the existential versionG EUFCMA of the game, the adversary must produce a signature for an honest useru
and a messagem that wasn’t queried toSign.
7 JKS24 called g and u the group and user identifier. Our tweaked terminology tries to highlight what they
correspond to in the protocols themselves.
8

(sk, vk)←$ SS.UserKg
c←$ SS.SigEnc(g, Kg, u, sku, n, m, ad)
m← SS.VerDec(g, Kg, u, vku, n, c, ad)
Fig.3: Syntax of a symmetric signcryption schemeSS.
The correctness of a symmetric signcryption scheme guarantees that
SS.VerDec(g, Kg, u, vku, n, SS.SigEnc(g, Kg, u, sku, n, m, ad), ad) = m
for all g∈{ 0, 1}∗, Kg∈{ 0, 1}SS.gkl, u∈{ 0, 1}∗, (sku, vku)∈ [SS.UserKg], n∈ SS.NS, m∈{ 0, 1}∗, and
ad∈ SS.AD.
In-group unforgeability. IUF security of a symmetric signcryption scheme guarantees the authen-
ticity of ciphertexts in the SUFCMA sense. It ensures that an attacker cannot forge a ciphertext that
appears to have come from any group member other than themselves. The game is parameterized by
a ciphertext-triviality predicate that defines what constitutes a trivial win for the attacker. By using
different triviality predicates, one captures the exact authenticity guarantees provided by a given scheme.
We define for the IUF security gameG IUF for a symmetric signcryption schemeSS, ciphertext-triviality
predicate predauth
trivial, and adversaryAIUF in Fig. 4. The advantage ofAIUF against the IUF security of SS is
given by AdvIUF
SS,predauth
trivial
(AIUF) = Pr[G IUF
SS,predauth
trivial
(AIUF)]. The adversary is given access to the user oraclesU,
the group oracles G, the encryption oracleSigEnc, the decryption oracleVerDec, and is required to
forge a ciphertext for an honest user.
Thegameusesthe user is corrupttabletokeeptrackofexposed/corruptusers.Whenevertheadversary
exposes a user or creates a corrupt one, the game setsuser is corrupt[u] to true. Analogously, the game up-
dates the group is corrupt table whenever the adversary queries itsExposeGroup or NewCorrGroup
oracle. The IUF game does not use the table thereafter, allowing the adversary to learn and control
symmetric group keys.
The SigEnc oracle accepts a tuple(g, u, n, m, ad) as input and returns a ciphertextc generated by
running SS.SigEnc(g, K[g], u, sk[u], n, m, ad). It subsequently logs ((g, u, n, m, ad), c) into the table C to
record all queries made toSigEnc along with the corresponding outputs. TheVerDec oracle takes a
tuple (g, u, n, c, ad) and executes SS.VerDec(g, K[g], u, sk[u], n, c, ad) to obtain the messagem. If m̸=⊥,
the VerDecoracle runs the triviality predicatepredauth
trivial on the setC and the valuez = ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)
to verify whether the current query constitutes a valid forgery, in which case it sets thewin flag.
Ciphertext-triviality predicates are used to parameterize both theIUF and OAE security games. We
present definitions for several ciphertext-triviality predicates in Fig. 5, with the strongest of these being
predsuf
trivial; underpredsuf
trivial, any ciphertext that wasn’t previously output bySigEnc constitutes a successful
forgery. Thepredeuf
trivial predicate can be thought of as the existential counterpart topredsuf
trivial. We also use
the predicates predsuf-except-group
trivial and predsuf-except-user
trivial that capture the authenticity of schemes where a
ciphertext for (g, u, n, m, ad) does not bind tog and u respectively.
Out-group authenticated encryption.The OAE security of a symmetric signcryption scheme guar-
antees the confidentiality and integrity of ciphertexts in the AEAD sense. It ensures that a group-outsider
cannot learn anything about messages sent on the group, nor can it modify the ciphertexts sent by group
members. The security definition is parameterized with a ciphertext-triviality predicate to capture the
exact guarantees provided by a scheme.
We provide the define for the OAE security gameG OAE for a symmetric signcryption scheme SS,
ciphertext-triviality predicatepredsec
trivial and adversaryAOAE in Fig. 4. The advantage ofAOAE against the
OAE security ofSS is given byAdvOAE
SS,predsec
trivial
(AOAE) = 2· Pr[GOAE
SS,predsec
trivial
(AOAE)]− 1. The adversary is given
access to the user oracles U, the group oracles G, the encryption oracle SigEnc, and the decryption
oracle VerDec, and is required to guess the challenge bitb. The user and group oracles are the same as
the corresponding oracles in theIUF security game, except theExposeGroup oracle cannot be called
9

Game G IUF
SS,predauth
trivial
(AIUF)
RunAU,G,SigEnc,VerDec
IUF
Return win
SigEnc(g, u, n, m, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥
require sk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
c←$ SS.SigEnc(g, K[g], u, sk[u], n, m, ad)
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)}
Return c
VerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥
require vk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
m← SS.VerDec(g, K[g], u, vk[u], n, c, ad)
If m =⊥ then return⊥
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)
If predauth
trivial(z, C) then return m
If¬user is corrupt[u] then win← true
Return m
Game G OAE
SS,predsec
trivial
(AOAE)
b←${0, 1} ; b′←$AU,G,SigEnc,VerDec
OAE
Return b = b′
SigEnc(g, u, n, m0, m1, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and|m0| =|m1|
require sk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
require (g, n)̸∈ N
If m0̸= m1 then
If group is corrupt[g] then return⊥
chal[g]← true
c←$ SS.SigEnc(g, K[g], u, sk[u], n, mb, ad)
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, mb, ad), c)}
N← N∪{ (g, n)} ; Return c
VerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬group is corrupt[g]
require vk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
m← SS.VerDec(g, K[g], u, vk[u], n, c, ad)
If m =⊥ then return⊥
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)
If predsec
trivial(z, C) then return⊥
If b = 0 then return⊥ else return m
NewHonUser(u)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
(sk[u], vk[u])←$ SS.UserKg
Return vk[u]
ExposeUser(u)
require sk [u]̸=⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
Return sk[u]
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
sk[u]← sk ; vk[u]← vk
NewHonGroup(g, users)
require K [g] =⊥
K[g]←${0, 1}SS.gkl
members[g]← users
ExposeGroup(g)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬chal[g]
group is corrupt[g]← true
Return K[g]
NewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
require K [g] =⊥
group is corrupt[g]← true
K[g]← K ; members[g]← users
Fig.4: Left pane: Game defining the IUF security of a symmetric signcryption scheme SS with
respect to a ciphertext-triviality predicate predauth
trivial. Right pane: Game defining the OAE secu-
rity of SS with respect to a ciphertext-triviality predicate predsec
trivial. Bottom pane: User oracles
U = {NewHonUser, ExposeUser, NewCorrUser} and group oracles G = {NewHonGroup,
ExposeGroup, NewCorrGroup} provided to an adversary in either game, except that the boxed
code only appears in theOAE security game.
on a group that was used for a challenge query. The game does not use theuser is corrupt table, allowing
the adversary to corrupt individual users.
The SigEnc oracle takes as input (g, u, n, m0, m1, ad) and returns the ciphertext c produced by
SS.SigEnc(g, K[g], u, sk[u], n, mb, ad). As is standard, the oracle requires that the sizes ofm0 and m1 are
equal, i.e.,|m0| =|m1|, and challenge queries must be made on honest groups with the condition that
m0̸= m1. The oracle uses the tableC to record all queries and their outputs. TheVerDec oracle takes
(g, u, n, c, ad) as input and returns the messagem obtained by runningSS.VerDec(g, K[g], u, sk[u], n, c, ad).
If m =⊥, the oracle returns⊥. Otherwise, the oracle applies the triviality predicatepredsec
trivial to the set
C and the tuplez = (( g, u, n, m, ad), c) to check whether the current query is a trivial forgery, in which
10

predsuf
trivial(z, C)
Return z∈ C
predeuf
trivial(z, C)
((g, u, n, m, ad), c)← z
Return∃c′, n′ : (( g, u, n′, m, ad), c′)∈ C
predsuf-except-group
trivial (z, C)
((g, u, n, m, ad), c)← z
Return∃g′ : (( g′, u, n, m, ad), c)∈ C
predsuf-except-user
trivial (z, C)
((g, u, n, m, ad), c)← z
Return∃u′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c)∈ C
Fig.5: Ciphertext-triviality predicates that capture rules for whether a successfully decryptedVerDec
query was trivially forgeable.
StE.UserKg
(sk, vk)←$ DS.Kg ; Return (sk, vk)
StE.SigEnc(g, Kg, u, sku, n, m, ad)
ms←⟨ g, n, m, ad⟩
s←$ DS.Sig(sku, ms)
me← s∥ m ; adNE←⟨ u, ad⟩
c← NE.Enc(Kg, n, me, adNE)
Return c
StE.VerDec(g, Kg, u, vku, n, c, ad)
adNE←⟨ u, ad⟩
me← NE.Dec(Kg, n, c, adNE)
If me =⊥ then return⊥
s∥ m← me // s.t.|s| = DS.sl,|m|≥ 0
ms←⟨ g, n, m, ad⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vku, ms, s) then return⊥
Return m
EtS.UserKg
(sk, vk)←$ DS.Kg ; Return (sk, vk)
EtS.SigEnc(g, Kg, u, sku, n, m, ad)
adNE←⟨ u, ad⟩
cNE← NE.Enc(Kg, n, m, adNE)
ms←⟨ g, n, cNE, ad⟩
s←$ DS.Sig(sku, ms)
Return (cNE, s)
EtS.VerDec(g, Kg, u, vku, n, c, ad)
(cNE, s)← c
ms←⟨ g, n, cNE, ad⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vku, ms, s) then return⊥
adNE←⟨ u, ad⟩
m← NE.Dec(Kg, n, cNE, adNE)
Return m
Fig.6: Left pane: Signcryption scheme StE = SIGN-THEN-ENCRYPT-SS[DS, NE]. Right pane: Sym-
metric signcryption scheme EtS = ENCRYPT-THEN-SIGN-SS[NE, DS]. We use underlined blue fontto
highlight the explicit binding of components.
case it immediately returns⊥. The final line of theVerDec oracle is executed only ifm̸=⊥ and the
query was not deemed a trivial forgery. In that case, the oracle returns⊥ if b = 0 and m otherwise.
We note the modifications we made to theOAE security definition of JKS24. We removed the checks
for nonce-misuse resistance, as the schemes we analyze are not misuse-resistant. In our definition, the
VerDec oracle returns⊥ in both cases: when it encounters a trivial forgery and when decryption fails.
JKS24 parameterized their OAE security game with anoutput-guarding functionsuch that theVerDec
oracle would return the output of this function for trivial forgeries and⊥ for decryption failures. The
strongest output guarding function allows the adversary to distinguish between triggering the triviality
predicate and causing a decryption failure, while the weakest function always returns⊥. We capture the
OAE security of a random-IV-based symmetric signcryption schemes by restricting to a classASS
$-IV of
adversaries defined analogously toANE
$-IV in Section 2.
3.2 Secure Constructions and the Importance of Binding
We recall the secure constructions, StE and EtS, proposed by JKS24 in Fig. 6. The StE scheme is a
Sign-then-Encrypt construction that uses a digital signature schemeDS and a nonce-based encryption
scheme NE as building blocks. TheIUF security of StE with respect to the predicatepredsuf
trivial reduces to
the SUFCMA security of DS and the OAE security of StE with respect topredsuf
trivial reduces to theAEAD
security ofNE. TheEtS scheme is an Encrypt-then-Sign construction built from the same building blocks
as StE. The IUF security of EtS with respect topredsuf
trivial similarly reduces to theSUFCMA security of DS
11

Attack-1AU,G,SigEnc,VerDec
1
NewCorrGroup(g0, K, users)
NewCorrGroup(g1, K, users)
n← 0NE.nl ; ad← ε
c← SigEnc(g0, ui, n, 0, ad)
VerDec(g1, ui, n, c, ad)
Attack-2AU,G,SigEnc,VerDec
2
NewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
n0← 0NE.nl ; n1 = 1 NE.nl
ad← ε
c0← SigEnc(g, ui, n0, 0, ad)
s∥ m← NE.Dec(K, n0, c0,⟨ui, ad⟩)
c1← NE.Enc(K, n1, s∥ m,⟨ui, ad⟩)
VerDec(g, ui, n1, c1, ad)
Fig.7: Left pane: Attack-1 against the IUF security of StE-except-group with respect topredsuf
trivial. Right
pane: Attack-2 against the IUF security of StE-except-nonce with respect to predsuf
trivial. For each of the
attacks, we fixn≥ 2, i∈ [0, n), a list of sender identifiersusers = [u0, u1, ..., un], and a messagem.
and the OAE security of EtS with respect to the weakerpredeuf
trivial predicate reduces to theAEAD security
of NE. The OAE security of EtS with respect topredsuf
trivial would need to assume thatDS produces unique
signatures.
The importance of binding . Binding refers to the inclusion of the symmetric encryption parameters
into the signature input, and vice versa, the inclusion of the digital signature parameters into the en-
cryption input. We highlight the two types of binding in theStE and EtS using underlined blue font
in Fig. 6.
In both constructions, the inputms to the signature scheme includes the group key identifierg, the
nonce n, and the associated dataad. Similarly, the associated dataadNE input to the encryption scheme
contains the sender identifier u. This binds the identity of a specific group instance to the signature
and the identity of the sender to the symmetric ciphertext. Achieving strongIUF and OAE security in a
symmetric signcryption scheme requires proper binding between the underlying components. To highlight
this, we show attacks against theIUF and OAE security of a symmetric signcryption scheme with respect
to the predsuf
trivial predicate, which would arise from the absence of proper binding.
Consider the symmetric signcryption schemeStE-except-group which is identical to theStE construc-
tion exceptms does not includeg. In Fig. 7, we describe an attackAttack-1 in which adversaryA1 breaks
the IUF security of StE-except-group. It begins by creating two corrupt groups,g0 and g1, with the same
symmetric key K. Next, it queries itsSigEnc oracle on (g0, u, n, m, ad), and obtains the ciphertextc.
It queries theVerDec oracle on (g1, u, n, c, ad). The ciphertextc would decrypt and verify successfully
since Kg0 = Kg1 and the remaining arguments are the same as theSigEnc query. Furthermore, the
predsuf
trivial predicate evaluates to false since ((g1, u, n, m, ad), c)̸∈ C. Thus, the adversary wins theIUF
security game achievingAdvIUF
StE-except-group,predsuf
trivial
(A1) = 1.
Next we consider the schemesStE-except-nonce and StE-except-user that are identical toStE except
ms does not include n in the former and adNE does not include u in the latter. We show Attack-2
and Attack-3 against the IUF and OAE security of these schemes in Figs. 7 and 8 respectively such
that AdvIUF
StE-except-nonce,predsuf
trivial
(A2) = 1 and AdvOAE
StE-except-user,predsuf
trivial
(A3) = 1 . While our examples focus on
versions of theStE construction, similar attacks apply to variants of theEtS construction that lack proper
binding.
The takeaway is that proper binding is necessary for achieving strongIUF and OAE security. This
requirement becomes apparent during analysis. For each construction, we examine whether the signature
properly binds tog, n, and ad, and whether the symmetric ciphertext binds tou. Whenever a construc-
tion fails to explicitly bind these components, we prove security against weak predicates of the form
predsuf-except-
trivial /predeuf-except-
trivial which reflect security up to the corresponding attack.
The lack of explicit binding doesn’t always lead to a practical exploit. Determining whether a theo-
retical attack is exploitable requires careful examination of how the construction is used in the broader
protocol. This involves identifying whether the protocol imposes implicit bindings that can used to prov-
ably achieve strong security when analyzing the construction’s composition with other primitives.
12

Attack-3AU,G,SigEnc,VerDec
3
NewCorrUser(u0, sk, vk)
NewCorrUser(u1, sk, vk)
NewHonGroup(g,{u0, u1})
n← 0NE.nl
c← SigEnc(g, u0, n, 0, 1, ε)
m← VerDec(g, u1, n, c, ε)
If m̸=⊥ then return 1
Else return 0
Fig.8: Attack-3 against the OAE security of StE-except-user with respect to predsuf
trivial. We fix identifiers
u0̸= u1, and g.
JKS24 observed implicit binding during their analysis of Keybase’s header encryption algorithm,
SealPacket,thatdidnotexplicitlybindtotheuserorgroupkeyidentifier.ButwithintheBoxMessagechat
encryption algorithm, it was always invoked on messages containing these identifiers, thereby providing
implicit binding. This allowed JKS24 to prove that BoxMessage achieves strong IUF and OAE security
even though SealPacket in isolation does not.
4 Analysis of Sign-then-Encrypt Constructions
4.1 MLS
An over view of MLS. In this section we present our analysis of the symmetric signcryption scheme
underlying MLS. We begin by providing a high level overview of MLS. MLS maintains three main data
structures to track the membership states in a dynamic group and derive corresponding shared group
secrets such that each new message sent in the group is encrypted with a fresh symmetric key. These are
the ratchet tree, the key schedule, and the secret tree. We provide a summary of these data structures
and their interactions in Fig. 9.
Consider a messaging group G consisting of|G| group members u0, ..., u|G|−1 during an epoch ep.
An epoch represents a particular membership state. A new epoch is initiated whenever a member is
added or removed from the group or when they updates their individual cryptographic state. Theratchet
tree for a group describes the membership of the group during a given epoch. It is a full binary tree
that is built deterministically in a bottom-up manner.8 Leaf nodes in the ratchet tree are assigned an
index leafIndex∈ Z|G|, starting at 0 from the left to|G|− 1 at the right, corresponding to the members
u0, u1, ..., u|G−1| respectively. EachleafIndex corresponds to exactly one user. The root of the ratchet tree
is used to derive the commit secretkcommit that seeds the key schedule.
The key schedule maintains the shared symmetric group secret kepoch, called the epoch secret, for
every epoch. It propagates the epoch secret from epoch to epoch using the epoch secret from the previous
epoch and the commit secret for the current epoch. Each member uses the epoch secret to derive the
encryption secret kes that forms the root of the secret tree.
Group members use thesecret treeto derive per-message symmetric keys and nonces. Each member
of the group uses the encryption secretkes as the root and deterministically derives the secret tree in a
top-down manner.9 Each node in the secret tree contains a symmetric key and each leaf in the secret
tree represents the same group member as the corresponding leaf in the ratchet tree. The symmetric key
ku at a leaf corresponding to a useru seeds two symmetric key chains (ratchets) namely the handshake
ratchet HR and the application ratchetAR. These ratchets in turn derive per-message keys and nonces
for handshake and application messages. We only consider application messages but our results should
extend to handshake messages.
8 Details about the ratchet tree derivation are provided in Section 7 of [BBR+23].
9 Details about the secret tree derivation are provided in Section 9 of [BBR+23].
13

kR
u0 u1 u2 u3
kcommit
kepoch
kepoch
kepoch
...
...
Key Schedule
kes
ku0 ku1 ku2 ku3
AR0 HR0
Symmetric Signcryption
AR1
AR2
...
k0
n0
k1
n1
k2
n2
Ratchet Tree Secret Tree
Fig.9: The ratchet tree, key schedule, and secret tree in MLS. HerekR is the root of the ratchet tree,
kcommit is derived fromkR and propagates the key schedule, andkes is the encryption secret for a groupG
and epoch ep where u0, u1, u2, andu3 are group members.HR and AR are the handshake and application
ratchets.
A sender u∈ G uses the ith key-nonce pair (ki, ni) in their application ratchet to AEAD encrypt the
ith message they send to the group during a given epochep. They then advance the generationi for the
next message, ensuring that the pair(ki, ni) is only used once. The useru, the keyki and the nonceni
can be uniquely identified by the tuple(G, leafIndexu, ep, i).
Chat Encryption in MLS . Chat encryption in MLS composes a digital signature scheme and a nonce-
based encryption scheme in the Sign-then-Encrypt fashion. We show pseudocode for the corresponding
subroutine, which we callMLSSendPrivateMessage, in Fig. 10.
Consider a sender u with leaf index leafIndexu in a group G during an epoch ep that wants to send
their ith message m and associated dataad to the group. TheMLSSendPrivateMessage subroutine works
as follows. First it constructs the authentication messagemDS by uniquely encodingG, e, leafIndexu, ad,
and m. It then signsmDS using the sender’s signing keysku to produce the signatures.
Next, it builds the inputmAEAD for AEAD encryption as m∥ s and the associated data adAEAD as
the unique encoding of G, ep, and ad. It uses the current epoch secret kep to derive the encryption
secret kes using a key derivation functionKDF. Using kes it derives the secret tree for the current epoch
and retrieves the symmetric keyku corresponding to the sender u from the leaf node atleafIndexu. It
then builds application ratchet secrets usingKDF starting withku until ARi corresponding to the current
generation i. It usesARi and KDF to derive the one-time encryption key-nonce pair(kAEAD, n). To protect
against nonce reuse in case a client accidentally repeats a value ofi, it masks the noncen using a random
32-bit “reuse guard”r, producing the final noncenAEAD. Finally, it encryptsmAEAD and adAEAD using an
AEAD scheme withkAEAD and nAEAD to obtain the ciphertextcAEAD, which is broadcast to the group.
Symmetric Signcryption in MLS . Every message sent on a group can be uniquely identified by the
tuple (G, ep, leafIndexu, i). We use this to capture each of the aforementioned single-use symmetric sign-
14

MLSSendPrivateMessage
// Authentication
mDS←⟨ G, ep, leafIndex, ad, m⟩ ; s←$ DS.Sig(sku, mDS)
// Encryption
mAEAD← m∥ s ; adAEAD←⟨ G, ep, ad⟩ ; j← 0
kes← KDF.Exp(kep, (KDF.Ext.ol, “MLS1.0”∥ “encryption”), KDF.Ext.ol)
[Generate secret tree fromkes and go toleafIndexu to obtain ku]
AR0← KDF.Exp(ku, (KDF.Ext.ol, “MLS1.0”∥ “secret”, j), KDF.Ext.ol)
while j < i do
j← j + 1
ARj← KDF.Exp(ARj−1, (KDF.Ext.ol, “MLS1.0”∥ “secret”, j), KDF.Ext.ol)
kAEAD← KDF.Exp(ARi, (AEAD.kl, “MLS1.0”∥ “key”, i), AEAD.kl)
n← KDF.Exp(ARi, (AEAD.nl, “MLS1.0”∥ “nonce”, i), AEAD.nl)
r←${0, 1}32 ; nAEAD← n⊕ r
cAEAD← AEAD.Enc(kAEAD, nAEAD, mAEAD, adAEAD)
Fig.10: The MLSSendPrivateMessage subroutine. G is the group name,u is the sender,sku is the sender’s
signing key,ep is the epoch,kep is the shared group secret,i is the message generation,m is the message,
and ad is the associated data. Pink highlighting marks lines that are later modeled as a symmetric
signcryption scheme. [Skipped lines] refer to the derivation of the secret tree in Fig. 9.
MLS-StE.UserKg
(sk, vk)←$ DS.Kg ; Return (sk, vk)
MLS-StE.SigEnc(g, Kg, u, sku, n, m, ad)
(g.Id, g.ep, g.leafIndex, g.generation)← g
mDS←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, g.leafIndex, ad, m⟩
s←$ DS.Sig(sku, mDS)
mNE← m∥ s
adNE←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, ad⟩
c← NE.Enc(Kg, n, mNE, adNE)
Return c
MLS-StE.VerDec(g, Kg, u, vku, n, c, ad)
adNE←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, ad⟩
mNE← NE.Dec(Kg, n, c, adNE)
If mNE =⊥ then return⊥
m∥ s← mNE // s.t.|s| = DS.sl,|m|≥ 0
mDS←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, g.leafIndex, ad, m⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vku, mDS, s) then return⊥
Return m
Fig.11: Scheme MLS-StE = MLS-SIGN-THEN-ENCRYPT[DS, NE] modelling symmetric signcryption in
MLS.
cryption schemes by defining asymmetric signcryption group key identifier object. For MLS, we de-
fine a symmetric signcryption group key identifier g as g = ( g.Id, g.ep, g.leafIndex, g.generation) where
g.Id = G, g.ep = ep, g.leafIndex = leafIndexu, and g.generation = i. A messaging group G at the ap-
plication layer will have multiple corresponding symmetric signcryption groups g in this model. The
membership of the symmetric signcryption groupg is the same as that of the messaging groupG during
epoch ep. For each symmetric signcryption groupg, group members share a symmetric encryption keyKg
and a noncen that correspond tokAEAD and nAEAD respectively in Fig. 10. Our constructionMLS-StE uses
symmetric signcryption groups to model thehighlighted parts ofMLSSendPrivateMessage as a symmetric
signcryption scheme as follows.
Construction 1. Let DS be a digital signature scheme. LetNE be an nonce-based encryption scheme
with associated-data space NE.AD ={0, 1}∗. Then MLS-StE = MLS-SIGN-THEN-ENCRYPT[DS, NE] is
the symmetric signcryption scheme as defined in Fig. 11, with group-key lengthMLS-StE.gkl = NE.kl,
nonce space MLS-StE.NS ={0, 1}NE.nl, message spaceMLS-StE.MS ={0, 1}∗, and associated-data space
MLS-StE.AD ={0, 1}∗.
Security Analysis ofMLS-StE We identify three attacks, two against theIUF and one against theOAE
security ofMLS-StE, that result from insufficient bindingDS and NE. One attack against theIUF security
15

is practically exploitable, but the composition ofMLS-StE with higher level primitives mitigates the other
two. We show thatMLS-StE achieves weaker versions ofIUF and OAE security.
Attacks against IUF and OAE security of MLS-StE. Consider the IUF security of MLS-StE for a
symmetric signcryption group g = ( G, ep, leafIndex, generation) and a user u. An MLS-StE ciphertext c
encrypts m∥ s using the keyKg and the noncen where s is a signature over⟨G, ep, leafIndex, ad, m⟩. No-
tably, s does not authenticate the message generationgeneration10 or the noncen used for encryption. For
optimal IUF security, the signature should bind to the symmetric signcryption group key identifierg, the
nonce n, and the associated dataad. InMLS-StE, s does not fully bind tog or n. Consequently,MLS-StE
becomes vulnerable to variants ofAttack-1 and Attack-2 described in Section 3.2. For the remainder of
this section, we refer to these attacks asMLS-Attack-1 and MLS-Attack-2 respectively.
Now consider theOAE security of MLS-StE for a symmetric signcryption groupg and a useru. The
MLS-StE.SigEnc algorithm never uses its input u. So the ciphertext c does not explicitly bind to the
identifier of the sender. As a result,MLS-StE is potentially vulnerable to a variant ofAttack-3 discussed
in Section 3.2. We refer to this attack asMLS-Attack-3.
Practical attacks and mitigations. We discuss which of the theoretical attacks lead to real-world
exploits and which are mitigated by the broader protocol.
MLS-Attack-1translatesintoinsiderreplayandreorderingattacksagainstMLS. MLS-Attack-1
exploits the lack of binding between the signatures and the group identifierg. Let u and u′ be members
of an MLS messagingG during an epochep. In theIUF security game, the adversary knows the symmetric
group key Kg. In MLS, this translates to every group member knowing the application ratchet secrets
(and hence the encryption keys) for all members. A malicious memberu′ can pre-compute the encryption
key Kgf and nonce nf for a symmetric signcryption groupgf = (G, ep, leafIndexu, if ) where if is a future
message generation. The memberu′ could then replay m∥ s produced by u during a previous message
generation ip < i f by re-encrypting them usingKgf and nf, impersonating u to the groupG. This attack
allows a malicious member to replay messages and from other members to the group within an epoch.
The attacker can also use the same decrypt-then-reencrypt technique to reorder messages by encrypting
m∥ s with key Kgp and nonce np for a symmetric signcryption groupgp = (G, ep, leafIndexu, ip) where ip
is a past message generation.
MLS-Attack-2 allows an insider to modify a ciphertext without modifying the plaintext.
Group members locally derive encryption keys and nonces from the application ratchet, then xor the first
32 bits of the nonce with the reuse guard for decryption. The reuse guard is authenticated by sender
data encryption which uses a symmetric key known to all group members. An attacker can re-encrypt
m∥ s under a new nonce n⊕ r′ getting ciphertext c′ and encrypt the new reuse guardr′ as part of a
new sender data encryption. This gives an “integrity of ciphertext” (but not “integrity of plaintext”) style
attack, which does not seem to provide any value against MLS, but it could if an application erroneously
assumed MLS provided integrity of ciphertexts against group insiders.
Implicit binding betweenc and u mitigates MLS-Attack-3. This attack results from the lack of
explicit binding betweenc and u. It is not practically exploitable because MLS provides implicit binding.
InMLSgroups,themappingbetweensenderidentifiersandleafindicesisbijective.Therefore,asymmetric
signcryption group g = ( G, ep, leafIndex, i) uniquely identifies the senderu. A bad implementation may
not uniquely map symmetric signcryption groups to sender identifiers, makingMLS-Attack-3 exploitable.
Proving weak IUF security of MLS-StE. We relax theIUF security definition by using a weak pred-
icate predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial defined in Fig. 12. Essentially, the predicate disallows the adversary from
winning the IUF security game by executingMLS-Attack-1, MLS-Attack-2, or MLS-Attack-3. We provide
some intuition for how we arrived atpredeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial . Thepredeuf
trivial predicate defined in Section 3
captures the existentialIUF security of a scheme. Underpredeuf
trivial, an attacker cannot win by producing
a new ciphertext for a message that was previously queried toSigEnc, even if it uses a different nonce
(this explains the c′, and n′). We then further relaxpredeuf
trivial to account for the lack of group binding
10 The generation is authenticated as part of the sender data encryption specified in Section 6.3.2 of [BBR+23],
but this only uses a symmetric key known to all group members.
16

predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial (z, C)
((g, u, n, m, ad), c)← z
Return∃g′, n′, c′ : (( g′, u, n′, m, ad), c′)∈ C
Fig.12: The ciphertext-triviality predicatepredeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial .
(this explains theg′ term). Now, the attacker must forge a signature to win the game which is prevented
by the SUFCMA security of DS.
Theorem 1. Let MLS-StE = MLS-SIGN-THEN-ENCRYPT[DS, NE] be the symmetric signcryption scheme
built from someNE and DS as specified in Construction 1. Letpredeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial be the ciphertext-
triviality predicate as defined in Fig. 12. LetAIUF be any adversary against theIUF security of MLS-StE
with respect topredeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial . Then we can build an adversaryADS such that
AdvIUF
MLS-StE,predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial
(AIUF)≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ADS).
Proving weak OAE security of MLS-StE. We relax the OAE security definition by using the weak
predicate predsuf-except-user
trivial .We show that the OAE security of MLS-StE with respect to predsuf-except-user
trivial
reduces to theAEAD security of NE.
Theorem 2. Let MLS-StE = MLS-SIGN-THEN-ENCRYPT[DS, NE] be the symmetric signcryption scheme
built from someNE and DS as specified in Construction 1. Letpredsuf-except-user
trivial be the ciphertext-triviality
predicate as defined in Fig. 5. LetAOAE be any adversary against the OAE security of MLS-StE with
respect topredsuf-except-user
trivial and func⊥
out. Then we can build an adversaryAAEAD such that
AdvOAE
MLS-StE,predsuf-except-user
trivial
(AOAE)≤ AdvAEAD
NE (ANE).
The proof of Theorem 1 and Theorem 2 is in Appendix B.
Discussion. Chat encryption in MLS has been previously studied by Alwen, Coretti, Dodis, and Tse-
lekounis [ACDT21] (ACDT), and by Klimovic [Kli21]. Neither identified the replay attackMLS-Attack-1
that we introduced earlier in this section.
ACDT model MLS chat encryption using an Encrypt-then-Sign approach, whereas the protocol spec-
ification [BBR+23], uses Sign-then-Encrypt. Furthermore, while the current MLS specification does not
sign message generations, the pseudocode of ACDT does. This raises an important question:If ACDT
had followed the exact MLS specification, would their formalism have identified theMLS-Attack-1 replay
attack? We argue that it would not. The definitions of ACDT do not account for insider security. Their
security game includes a corruption oracle that reveals the entire state of a group member, including
their signing key and all symmetric keys for the current epoch. Moreover, their security definition re-
quires the attacker to be passive afterany compromise until the group secret is updated. In contrast,
MLS-Attack-1 exploits the scenario where the attacker actively injects messages in the group after learning
the symmetric key (but not the sender’s signing key), a situation not addressed by ACDT.
Klimovic modeled chat encryption correctly as a Sign-then-Encrypt construction, but did not provide
a formal analysis of this composition or address insider security notions. Instead, their work primarily
aimed to simplify the MLS protocol specification and formalize forward-secure AEAD in group settings.
We underscore the importance of insider security particularly in the context of MLS by referencing
Section 8.3.1.1 of the MLS Architecture document [BRO+24] that specifically guarantees the following.
Compromise of the AEAD keys allows the attacker to send an encrypted message using that key,
but cannot send a message to a group which appears to be from any valid client since they cannot
forge the signature.
17

EncryptUsingSessionLGProtocol
mSig← m∥ vku∥ gpk
s← Ed25519.Sig(sku, mSig)
mEnc← m∥ vku∥ s
(epk, esk)←$ X25519.Kg
nEnc← Blake2b(epk∥ gpk)
s← gpkesk ; kEnc← HSalsa20(s, 0256)
c← XSalsa20-Poly1305.Enc(kEnc, nEnc, mEnc)
Fig.13: Here, gpk is the group’s public key,(sku, vku) is the sender’s signing key pair,m is the message.
Isolating the symmetric signcryption primitive allows for fine grained analysis of security under the
compromise of different keys while other keys remain secret, allowing us to capture the insider replay
attack against MLS.
Disclosure. On February 3, 2025, we shared our findings with the MLS working group by reaching
out to the MLS mailing list (mls@ietf.org). Two of the RFC authors acknowledged our insider replay
attack, while other researchers proposed potential updates to the RFC in light of our findings. There
was some discussion on whether the MLS protocol should protect against replay attacks. As a result of
this discussion, we were invited to present our findings at the IETF 122 meeting, to provide the working
group an opportunity to consider replay attacks and associated revisions to the RFC.
4.2 Session
In this section we present our analysis of the symmetric signcryption scheme underlying Session’s protocol
as deployed at the time of writing, now called Legacy Groups (LG). Group chat encryption in Session has
since updated to a new protocol, GroupsV2. We begin by providing a brief overview of chat encryption
in Legacy Groups. It uses a public-key encryption scheme built using the KEM/DEM paradigm [CS03]
along with digital signatures such that each message from a sender to a group is encrypted with a fresh
symmetric key.
In Session, each user u owns a long-term Ed25519 [BDL+12] signing key pair (sku, vku). When a
user creates a group, they generate anX25519 [Ber06] encryption key pair (gpk, gsk ) called the group
encryption key pairand share it with all members of the group over existing 2-party channels.
Chat encryption in Session . Session uses the EncryptUsingSessionLGProtocol subroutine [Sesb] for
chat encryption.11 We show pseudocode for it in Fig. 13. It is a Sign-then-Encrypt construction, and uses
the Ed25519 signature scheme, theXSalsa20-Poly1305[Ber05, Ber08] nonce-based encryption scheme, and
the Blake2b [SA15] and HSalsa20 [Ber08] hash functions as building blocks.
It begins by constructing the signature inputmSig as m∥ vku∥ gpk of the message, the sender’s ver-
ification key, and the group’s public key. It then callsEd25519.Sig to sign mSig using sku to obtain the
signature s. Then it builds the inputmEnc to the encryption scheme asm∥ vku∥ s. It samples a fresh,
ephemeral X25519 key pair(epk, esk). It derives the noncenEnc by applying theBlake2b hash function to
epk∥ gpk and the keykEnc by applying theHSalsa20 hash function to0256 where HSalsa20 is keyed using
s = gpkesk. Finally, it callsXSalsa20-Poly1305.Enc to encrypt mEnc using kEnc and nEnc then broadcasts
the resulting ciphertextc to the group.
Symmetric Signcryption in Session . Each message in Session is encrypted with a fresh symmetric
key that is uniquely defined by (gpk, epk). We use this observation to define symmetric signcryption
groups for Session asg = ( g.gpk = gpk, g.epk = epk) and assume that the associated symmetric keyKg
is independently sampled and between all group members. We define the symmetric signcryption scheme
SesLG-StE that models theEncryptUsingSessionLGProtocol subroutine as follows.
11 Session provides a white paper [JSH24] for its protocol, but notes that the groups protocol defined in the paper
is not the one used in the live implementation.
18

SesLG-StE.UserKg
(sk, vk)←$ DS.Kg ; Return ((sk, vk), ε)
SesLG-StE.SigEnc(g, Kg, u, sk, n, m, ad)
// Kg∈{ 0, 1}256 ; n∈{ 0, 1}192 ; ad = ε
(g.gpk, g.epk)← g ; ( sku, vku)← sk
mDS← m∥ vku∥ g.gpk
s← DS.Sig(sku, ms)
// DS = Ed25519
mNE← m∥ vku∥ s
c← NE.Enc(Kg, n, mNE)
// NE = XSalsa20-Poly1305
Return c
SesLG-StE.VerDec(g, Kg, u, vku, n, c, ad)
(g.gpk, g.epk)← g
mNE← NE.Dec(Kg, n, c)
If mNE =⊥ then return⊥
m∥ vku∥ s← mNE
// s.t.|s| = DS.sl,|vku| = DS.vkl,|m|≥ 0
mDS← m∥ ˜vku∥ g.gpk
If ˜vku̸= vku then return⊥
If¬DS.Ver(vku, mDS, s) then return⊥
Return m
Fig.14: Scheme SesLG-StE = Ses-SIGN-THEN-ENCRYPT[NE, DS] modelling symmetric signcryption in
Session.
Construction 2. Let DS be a digital signature scheme. Let NE be a nonce-based encryption scheme
with associated data spaceNE.AD ={ε}. Then SesLG-StE = Ses-SIGN-THEN-ENCRYPT[NE, DS] is the
symmetric signcryption scheme as defined in Fig. 14, with group-key lengthSesLG-StE.gkl = NE.kl, nonce
space SesLG-StE.NS = {0, 1}NE.nl, message space SesLG-StE.MS = {0, 1}∗, and associated data space
SesLG-StE.AD ={ε}.
Security Analysis ofSesLG-StE We now present our analysis of theIUF and OAEsecurity ofSesLG-StE.
We identify three attacks, two against theIUF and one against theOAE security ofSesLG-StE, that result
from insufficient binding. One of the attacks against theIUF security and the attack against theOAE
security are practically exploitable, and the broader protocol mitigates the secondIUF security attack.
We show thatSesLG-StE achieves weaker versions ofIUF and OAE security. In particular, we reduce the
(weakened) IUF security of SesLG-StE to the SUFCMA security of DS and the (weakened)OAE security
of SesLG-StE to the AE security of NE.
Attacks against IUF and OAE security of SesLG-StE. Consider theIUF security ofSesLG-StE for a
symmetric signcryption groupg = (gpk, epk) and a useru. AnSesLG-StE ciphertext c encrypts m∥ vku∥ s
using the keyKg and the noncen where s is a signature overm∥ vku∥ gpk. Notably, the signatures does
not authenticate the ephemeral public keyepk or the nonce n. The former implies that the signature
does not fully bind to the symmetric signcryption group key identifierg. So SesLG-StE is vulnerable to
variants Attack-1 and Attack-2 described in Section 3.2.12 We refer to these attacks asSession-Attack-1
and Session-Attack-2 respectively.
Now consider theOAE security ofSesLG-StE for a symmetric signcryption groupg = (gpk, epk) and a
user u. In Section 3.2, we noted that in order to achieve optimalOAE security, the symmetric ciphertext
producedbyasymmetricsigncryptionschememustbindtothesenderidentifier u.WecanseefromFig.14
that SesLG-StE never uses its inputu. So the ciphertextc does not explicitly bind to the identifier of the
sender. As a result,SesLG-StE is vulnerable to a variant ofAttack-3 discussed in Section 3.2. We refer to
this attack asSession-Attack-3.
Practical attacks and mitigations. We discuss the real-world implications of the attacks we de-
scribed. The lack of binding inSesLG-StE is analogous to those identified inMLS-StE, but the practical
consequences are different.
Session-Attack-1 translates into an insider replay attack against Session. Session-Attack-1
exploits the lack of binding between s and g. Specifically, the signature s does not authenticate the
12 The XSalsa20-Poly1305 encryption scheme used to instantiateSesLG-StE in Session is not secure when a nonce
is reused with a given symmetric key. However, our security game disallows the adversary from winning by
nonce repetition. In Session, nonces are derived by applying theBlake2b hash function toepk∥ gpk. This makes
collisions unlikely as long as good randomness is used to generateepk.
19

ephemeral public keyepk. In Session, all group members knowgsk and epk. If c is the ciphertext for the
symmetricsigncryptiongroup g = (gpk, epk)sentbyanhonestmember u,thenamaliciousmember u′ can
decrypt cto retrievem∥ vku∥ sand re-encrypt it withKg′ and noncen′ corresponding tog′ = (epk′, esk′).
Member u′ then broadcasts c′ to the group, impersonatingu. This attack allows the malicious member
to indefinitely replay messages from other group members.13
The use ofSesLG-StE in Session mitigatesSession-Attack-2. The attack arises from the absence of
binding betweens and n. It is not exploitable due to the composition ofSesLG-StE with theBlake2b hash
function. In Session, group members deterministically derive nonces fromg = ( gpk, epk), ensuring that
the corresponding keyKg can be associated with at most one nonce. If a malicious member attempts to
replay previously encrypted messages using a different nonce, receiving members can detect the forgery.
The exploitability of Session-Attack-3 depends on the broader implementation.The attack
exploits the lack of explicit binding betweenc and u. In Session, a user’s Account ID (or username) is
the same as their verification keyvku by default. However, users can opt to register a human-readable
username through the Oxen Name System (ONS), which maps usernames to Account IDs and stores this
mapping on the Arbitrum blockchain. In the default case,Session-Attack-3 is not exploitable asc and u
are implicitly bound viavku. However, its exploitability when usernames are registered via ONS depends
on the implementation of ONS, which we did not analyze.
Proving the weak IUF security of SesLG-StE. To account for weaknesses in theSesLG-StE scheme,
we relax IUF security by using predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial defined during the IUF security analysis of
SesLG-StE. The security result (proved in Appendix C) follows similarly to the corresponding result
for MLS-StE.
Theorem 3. Let SesLG-StE = Ses-SIGN-THEN-ENCRYPT[NE, DS] be the symmetric signcryption scheme
built from someNE and DS as specified in Construction 2. Letpredeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial be the ciphertext-
triviality predicate as defined in Fig. 12. LetAIUF be any adversary against theIUF security of SesLG-StE
with respect topredeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial . Then we can build an adversaryADS such that
AdvIUF
SesLG-StE,predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial
(AIUF)≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ADS).
Proving weak OAE security of SesLG-StE. We relaxOAEsecurity by usingpredsuf-except-user
trivial . The for-
malresultforthe OAEsecurityof SesLG-StE(provedinAppendixC)followssimilarlytothecorresponding
result for MLS-StE.
Theorem 4. Let SesLG-StE = Ses-SIGN-THEN-ENCRYPT[DS, NE] be the symmetric signcryption scheme
built from someNE and DS as specified in Construction 2. Letpredsuf-except-user
trivial be the ciphertext-triviality
predicate as defined in Fig. 5. LetAOAE be any adversary against theOAE security of SesLG-StE with
respect topredsuf-except-user
trivial . Then we can build an adversaryAAE such that
AdvOAE
SesLG-StE,predsuf-except-user
trivial
(AOAE)≤ AdvAE
NE(ANE).
We prove Theorem 3 and Theorem 4 in Appendix C.
Discussion. The OAE security of a scheme ensures that an attacker cannot forge ciphertexts without
knowing the symmetric group key, even if they know the signing key(s) of group member(s). One needs
to be careful when trying to understand how this guarantee lifts to a protocol — in this case Session
— as a whole. We note, for example, that seemingly an attacker who knows the group’s public keygpk
(without knowing gsk) and an insider’s signing key can forge messages to the group by creating a new
group symmetric key from a fresh ephemeralesk. Mitigating this would require thatgpk is only known
to group members, an assumption that doesn’t currently hold in Session.
However, Session stated the following in a public blog post, discussing why they do not aim for privacy
when long-term keys are compromised.
13 Session groups are additionally vulnerable to replays by group-outsiders. Session’s implementation attaches
a timestamp to the ciphertext c and uses it to detect replays. The timestamp is not authenticated by the
symmetric ciphertext or the signature, allowing an outsider to modify timestamps and replay them to the
group.
20

[Perfect forward secrecy] means that if long-term keys for a given conversation are compromised,
only a small amount of recent messages can be decrypted. However, under typical circumstances,
... the only way long term keys can be compromised is through full physical device access — in
which case an attacker could simply pull the already-decrypted messages from the local database.
As is often said in the infosec community, physical access is total access.
They were not referring to this specific attack in their blog post, but would presumably consider it
similarly.
Disclosure. On February 10, 2025, we reached out to Session and shared our findings. They confirmed
that Session-Attack-1 is possible in Legacy Groups but noted that weak mitigations exist, allowing detec-
tion of replays to some extent.
... clients provide a message info screen for every message, allowing users to see when a message
was received versus when it was sent. This feature offers some detectability for such an attack.
For example, if a message was “received” today but was “sent” two weeks ago, it could indicate
that the timestamp was altered. However, detecting this can be challenging if a client is linking
a new device or restoring from a recovery password.
They stated that Session-Attack-1 is resolved in GroupsV2 because a sender-generated timestamp is
included as part of the input to the signature scheme which the receiver uses to order messages and detect
replays. We have not analyzed GroupsV2 and hence did not verify this claim.
Regarding Session-Attack-3, they clarified aspects of their system that led us to update our earlier
discussions.
TheyacknowledgedthattheattackwedescribedinSection4.2is“partiallypossible” inLegacyGroups,
highlighting the natural observation that the attacker doesn’t know the underlying message in this replay
attack. They also pointed to weak mitigations against this attack:
Second, the decentralized node network used to store messages in Session deduplicates messages
based on the message hash. Since the timestamp is not considered as part of the message hash by
Session Nodes, an attacker cannot replay a message that is currently stored in the [node network].
This means the attacker would need to scrape messages and then replay them only after they had
been deleted from the swarm, which typically occurs after 14 days.
Finally, they stated that additional mitigations are implemented in GroupsV2. We have not verified
these claims.
5 Analysis of Encrypt-then-Sign Constructions
In this section, we analyze the chat encryption algorithms underlying the group messaging protocols in
Signal and Matrix. Both Signal and Matrix implement variants of the Sender Keys [Mar14] protocol. We
begin by providing a brief overview of the protocol. Then we model the chat encryption in Signal and
Matirx as symmetric signcryption schemes and analyze their security.
The Sender Keys Protocol . The Sender Keys protocol is widely used by applications like Signal,
Matrix, and WhatsApp14 for end-to-end encrypted group chats. We summarize the protocol in Fig. 15.
When a user u joins a group G, they generate a chain keyck (their symmetric key), a signing key pair
(sku, vku), and initialize a counter (called the chain key counter)i to 0. The useru then creates a sender
key object(ck, vku, i), consisting of the chain key, verification key, and chain key counter and shares it with
other group members over two-party channels (typically instantiated using the Double Ratchet [MP16]
algorithm). Every group member stores the sender keys of all group members assenderKey[G, u, e, i] =
(ck, vk), where each entry is indexed by the group identifierG, sender identifieru, epoch e, and chain key
14 WhatsApp does not provide a precise description for its group chat encryption. Hence, we omit it from this
work.
21

u0
u1
u2
u3
senderKey
[u0]
senderKey[u0]
senderKey
[u0]
ck0
senderKey[G, uj , e, i] = ( ckuj , i, vkuj )
Symmetric
Signcryption
mk0
IV 0
ck1 mk1
IV 1
ck2 mk2
IV 2
cki mki
IV i
Fig.15: An overview of the Sender Keys protocol for a group with four membersuj for j∈ [0, 3]. Left
pane: When u1 joins the group, it creates and shares its sender key object with all other group members
over 2-party channels. We use dashed lines to depict secure 2-party channels.Right pane:Each member
stores the sender key of all group members and uses the chain key to derive the message key and IV,
propagating the chain after every encryption/decryption.
SignalGroupEncrypt
kseed← HMAC-SHA-256(ck, 0x01) //|kseed| = 256
kderived← HKDF.Exp(kseed, “WhisperGroup”, 384) //|kderived| = 384
K∥ IV ← kderived // s.t.|K| = 256,|IV| = 128
cEnc← CBC[AES-256].Enc(K, IV, m)
cSig←⟨ ad, G, chainId, iteration, cEnc⟩
s←$ XEdDSA.Sig(sku, cSig)
Fig.16: The SignalGroupEncrypt subroutine.
index i. The epoch tracks the state of the group and is initialized to 0 during group creation, incrementing
each time a member is added or removed or refreshes their sender key.
To send a message, a sender u first derives a message key mk and an initialization vector IV by
applying a key derivation function to their chain key. The sender encrypts the message usingmk and IV
and a symmetric encryption scheme, and authenticates the resulting ciphertext using a digital signature
scheme and their signing key sku. Finally, the sender broadcasts the ciphertext and signature to the
group, derives a new chain key using a key derivation function and the current chain key, and increments
i by 1. Group members track other members’ sender keys to decrypt and verify incoming ciphertexts,
replacing the sender’s chain key with an appropriately derived key after decryption.
Assuming message keys are independently sampled, each message encryption can be analyzed in
a setting where every member in the group owns a signing key pair, and all group members share
a symmetric encryption key, allowing Sender Keys to be viewed as a series of single-use symmetric
signcryption schemes.
5.1 Signal
As we mentioned at the beginning of this section, Signal uses the Sender Keys protocol to manage dynamic
group membership and derive shared secrets such that each message sent within the group is encrypted
using a fresh symmetric key. We begin by providing an overview of Signal’s implementation of Sender
Keys. In Signal, every group is assigned a 16-byte uniformly random identifierG and each user-device
pair is assigned a unique identifieru. Users in Signal may have multiple devices, each uniquely identified
by a globally unique user identifier and a device-specific identifier. For simplicity and without loss of
applicability, we model each device in a group as an individual user with a distinct identifieru. When a
user initiates a groupG with members u0, u1, ..., un, each memberui∈ G creates their sender key object
as follows. First, they sample theirck, a uniformly random 256-bit string, and generate a freshXEdDSA
22

Sig-EtS.SigEnc(g, Kg, u, sku, n, m, ad)
// Kg∈{ 0, 1}256 ; n ={0, 1}128
cNE← NE.Enc(Kg, n, m)
// NE = CBC[AES-256]
cDS←⟨ ad, g, cNE⟩
s←$ DS.Sig(sku, cDS)
// DS = XEdDSA
Return (cNE, s)
Sig-EtS.UserKg
(sk, vk)←$ DS.Kg ; Return (sk, vk)
Sig-EtS.VerDec(g, Kg, u, sku, n, c, ad)
(cNE, s)← c
cDS←⟨ ad, g, cNE⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vku, cDS, s) then return⊥
m← NE.Dec(Kg, n, cNE)
Return m
Fig.17: Scheme Sig-EtS = Signal-ENCRYPT-THEN-SIGN[NE, DS] modelling symmetric signcryption in
Signal.
signing key pair(sku, vku). Next, they generate a uniformly random 31-bit integer called thechainId and
initialize the indexiteration for their sender key chain to 0. Within a group, thechainId and the iteration
serve as a handle that group members use to retrieve a given user’s current chain key.
Each group memberui then shares their sender key objectsenderKey = (G, chainId, iteration, ck, vkui )
with every other group memberuj∈ G\ ui. over one-on-one Signal sessions. All members in the group
locally store the sender keys of other members using thesenderKeyStore table. The senderKeyStore table
is indexed by the tuple(G, u) and stores the corresponding senderKey object. When a new member is
added to the group, existing members distribute their most recent sender key object to the newcomer. If
a member is removed from the group, the remaining members generate fresh sender key objects and share
them with one another. Finally, when a member resets or updates their sender key object, they propagate
the update to all other group members. When useru with chain IDchainId sends the ith message in G,
they use their currentck to deterministically derive the encryption key. After encrypting the message,
they increment theiteration index by 1 and replaceck with a newly derivedck.
Chat encryption in Signal . Signal composes the Sender Keys protocol with theSignalGroupEncrypt
subroutine shown in Fig. 16. It is an Encrypt-then-Sign construction and uses HMAC-SHA-256 hash
function, the HKDF key derivation function, the AES-256 encryption scheme in the CBC mode, and the
XEdDSA signature scheme as building blocks.
To send a messagem with associated dataad from a useru to the groupG, the SignalGroupEncrypt
subroutine performs the following operations. First it derives the 256-bit seed keykseed by applying the
HMAC-SHA-256hashfunctiontotheuser’scurrentchainkey ck usingthelabel 0x01.Thenitexpands kseed
intothe384-bitkey kderived byapplyingthe HKDFexpandfunctionto kseed usingthelabel “WhisperGroup”.
It parses kderived to obtain the 256-bit encryption keyK and the 128-bit initialization vectorIV . It calls
the CBC[AES-256].Enc method to encrypt the messagem using K and IV and obtains the ciphertextcEnc.
It builds the signature inputcSig by uniquely encoding ad, G, chainId, iteration and cEnc. Then it invokes
XEdDSA.Sig to sign cSig using the sender’s group-specific signing keysku and obtains the signature s,
and broadcasts (cEnc, s) to the group.
Symmetric Signcryption in Signal . The chain key and the per-message encryption key derived from
it are uniquely identified by(G, chainId, iteration). We use this to define symmetric signcryption groups
that capture the single-use symmetric signcryption schemes. We define a symmetric signcryption groupg
as g = (g.Id, g.chainId, g.iteration) where g.Id = G, g.chainId = chainId, andg.iteration = iteration. For each
symmetric signcryption groupg, group members share a symmetric keykg = K. OurSig-EtS construction
uses symmetric signcryption groups to modelSignalGroupEncrypt as a symmetric signcryption scheme.
Construction 3. Let NE be a random-IV-based encryption scheme andDS be a digital signature scheme.
Then Sig-EtS = Signal-ENCRYPT-THEN-SIGN[NE, DS] is the symmetric signcryption scheme as defined
in Fig. 17, with group-key lengthSig-EtS.gkl = NE.kl, nonce spaceSig-EtS.NS ={0, 1}NE.nl, message space
Sig-EtS.MS ={0, 1}∗, and associated data spaceSig-EtS.AD ={0, 1}∗.
Security Analysis of Sig-EtS We identify three attacks, one against theIUF security of Sig-EtS and
two against theOAE security of Sig-EtS. The first results from the insufficient binding betweens and n.
23

The second arises from insufficient binding between the symmetric ciphertextcEnc and u, and the third
from the use of an encryption scheme that lacks ciphertext integrity. The first and second attacks are
mitigated by implicit binding, the third attack is practically exploitable. We show thatSig-EtS achieves
weaker versions ofIUF and OAE security. For the latter, we restrict the adversary from corrupting any
users.
Attacks against the IUF and OAE security of Sig-EtS. Consider the IUF security of Sig-EtS for a
symmetric signcryption group g and a user u. From Fig. 17 we can see thats does not authenticate n,
making it suscptible to variants ofAttack-2 defined in Section 3.2. We refer to this asSignal-Attack-1.
Consider the OAE security of Sig-EtS for a group g = ( G, chainId, iteration) and a user u. The
CBC[AES-256] encryption scheme does not provide integrity of ciphertexts. This allows group-outsider
to modify an honestly generated ciphertext so that it decrypts to a message different from the original
plaintext. The attack is as follows. The adversary exposes an honest useru that belongs to a groupg
and learns its signing keysku. It queries itsSigEnc oracle on (g, u, n, m0, m1, ad) for some n, m0, and
m1 where m0̸= m1 to receive the ciphertext(cNE, s). It modifies cNE to obtain c′
NE and signs c′
NE using
the exposed signing key sk[u] to produce the signature s′ on⟨ad, g, c′
NE⟩. Finally, it queries(c′
NE, s′) to
VerDec and wins its game by returning1 whenever VerDec returns 1. For the remainder of the section,
we refer to this attack asSignal-Attack-2.
Moreover, we can see from Fig. 17 that Sig-EtS never uses its input u. So the ciphertext c does
not explicitly bind to the identifier of the sender, makingSig-EtS is vulnerable to a variant ofAttack-3
discussed in Section 3.2. We refer to this attack asSignal-Attack-3.
Practical attacks and mitigations. We discuss the real-world implications ofSignal-Attack-1 and
Signal-Attack-2. Implicit binding between s and n prevents Signal-Attack-1. The symmetric sign-
cryption group key identifierg = (G, chainId, iteration) uniquely defines a symmetric keyKg and a nonce
n. Users in Signal useg to deterministically deriven. Therefore, binding the signature tog implicitly also
binds it ton, preventing Signal-Attack-1.
Signal-Attack-2 leads into a potential malleability attack against Signal.Signal-Attack-1 re-
sults from the lack of integrity of ciphertexts produced byCBC[AES-256]. We describe how a practical
implementation of this attack would proceed, though we admit that the setting we describe is narrow.
Say an attacker compromises the signing keysku of a useru. Thereafter, the useru joins a groupG. The
attacker can then maul ciphertexts (like xor-ing a ciphertext block with some bit-string˜m) produced by
u and re-sign them usingsku, thereby impersonatingu to members ofG.
The implicit binding betweenc and u prevents Signal-Attack-3. The chainId uniquely identifies
a user within a group up to collisions. The symmetric signcryption group key identifierg contains the
chainId and hence uniquely identifies a useru in the group. Since the ciphertextcNE is produced using
Kg, it implicitly binds to the corresponding useru, rendering Signal-Attack-2 not exploitable.
Proving weak IUF security of Sig-EtS. We relax theIUF security definition for Sig-EtS to account
for Signal-Attack-1. A natural way would be to use thepredeuf
trivial predicate. However, Sig-EtS does not
achieve even this weaker notion.So we relax the definition by restricting to a class of adversaries that only
make one SigEnc query per groupg, and always query “matching” nonces toSigEnc and VerDec for
a given group. Then we show that theIUF security Sig-EtS with respect to thepredsuf
trivial predicate reduces
to the SUFCMA security of the underlying digital signature scheme.
Theorem 5. Let Sig-EtS = Signal-ENCRYPT-THEN-SIGN[NE, DS] be the symmetric signcryption scheme
built from someNE and DS as specified in Construction 3. Letpredsuf
trivial be the ciphertext-triviality predicate
as defined in Fig. 5. LetAIUF be an adversary against theIUF security of Sig-EtS with respect topredsuf
trivial
that for each groupg makes exactly one query toSigEnc, and queries the same nonce toSigEnc and
VerDec. Then we can build an adversaryASUFCMA such that
AdvIUF
Sig-EtS,predsuf
trivial
(AIUF)≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA).
Proving weak OAE security of Sig-EtS. We relax theOAE game by disallowing the adversary from
corrupting users. We show thatSig-EtS is OAE secure as long as the attacker does not learn any secrets
for the group it is attacking.
24

MegolmEncrypt
kseed← HKDF.Ext(0, ratchetKey)
kderived← HKDF.Exp(kseed, “MegolmKeys”, 640)
K∥ Ktag∥ IV ← kderived // s.t.|K| =|Ktag| = 256,|IV| = 128
mEnc←⟨ G, m⟩
cEnc← CBC[AES-256].Enc(K, IV, m Enc)
mtag←⟨ ad, iteration, cEnc⟩
ctag← HMAC-SHA-256(Ktag, mtag)[0 : 64]
cSig←⟨ ad, iteration, cEnc, ctag⟩
s←$ Ed25519.Sig(sku, cSig)
Fig.18: The MegolmEncrypt subroutine used in Signal to encrypt messages from a user to a group.
We briefly sketch our result. The adversary can either win by forging a ciphertext toVerDec or by
breaking the left-or-right security of ciphertexts produced bySigEnc. To forge a ciphertextc = (cNE, s),
the adversary must either forgecNE or s. If the attacker forgescNE, then it must also forge a corresponding
signature. The SUFCMA security of DS prevents this. Now the attacker can only win by learning the bit
b from left-or-right encryptions produced bySigEnc. The IND-CPA security of NE prevents this.
Theorem 6. Let Sig-EtS = Signal-ENCRYPT-THEN-SIGN[NE, DS] be the symmetric signcryption scheme
built from someNE and DS as specified in Construction 3. Letpredsuf
trivial be the ciphertext-triviality predi-
cate as defined in Fig. 5. LetASS
$-IV and ANE
$-IV be the classes of adversaries defined in Section 2 and Sec-
tion 3 respectively. LetAOAE∈ ASS
$-IV be an adversary against theOAE security of Sig-EtS with respect to
predsuf
trivial that never queries itsExposeUser or NewCorrUser oracles. Then we can build an adver-
sariesASUFCMA andAIND-CPA∈ ANE
$-IV such that
AdvOAE
Sig-EtS,predsuf
trivial
(AOAE)≤ 2· AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA) + AdvIND-CPA
NE (AIND-CPA).
We prove Theorem 5 and Theorem 6 in Appendix D.
5.2 Matrix
In this section, we present our analysis of the symmetric signcryption scheme in Matrix. We begin with
how Matrix’s implementation, Megolm [Matb], of the Sender Keys protocol differs from our description
at the beginning of this section. Each user u has two long-term key pairs: an Ed25519 signing key
pair (SKu, V Ku) called the fingerprint key pair and a Curve25519 encryption key pair (EKu, DKu)
called the identity key pair. Users sign their identity public key EKu using their long-term signing
key SKu, and publish the signature,V Ku, and EKu to the Matrix network. It defines the sender key
object as (ck, EKu, vku, iteration). A sender’s current chain key in a group is uniquely determined by
(G, EKu, vku, iteration).
Chat encryption in Matrix . Megolm uses the MegolmEncrypt shown in Fig. 18 for chat encryption.
It is an Encrypt-then-Sign construction and uses theHKDF [Kra10, KE10] key derivation function, the
AES-256 encryption scheme in the CBC mode, the HMAC-SHA-256 [BCK96] message authentication
scheme, and theEd25519 signature scheme as building blocks.
To send a messagemwith associated dataadfrom a useruto the groupG, MegolmEncryptfirst derives
a 640-bit keykderived by applying theHKDF.Ext function to the sender’s current chain keyck, with a salt
of 0 and the label “MegolmKeys". It parses the keykderived into three components: a 256-bit encryption
key K, a 256-bit MAC keyKtag, and a 128-bit initialization vectorIV . It encrypts the messagem with
the CBC[AES-256].Enc function usingK and IV , producing the ciphertextcEnc. Then it authenticatesad,
iteration, and cEnc using the HMAC-SHA-256 function and Ktag. It builds the inputcSig to the signature
scheme by encoding ad, iteration, cEnc, and ctag. It uses the Ed25519.Sig function to sign cSig with the
sender’s signing keysku, producing the signatures, and broadcasts the((cEnc, ctag), s).
25

Mat-EtS.UserKg
(sk, vk)←$ DS.Kg ; Return (sk, vk)
Mat-EtS.SigEnc(g, Kg, u, sku, n, m, ad)
// Kg∈{ 0, 1}512, n∈{ 0, 1}128
(g.Id, g.ipk, g.uvk, g.iteration)← g
mNE←⟨ g.Id, m⟩ ; adNE←⟨ ad, g.iteration⟩
cNE← NE.Enc(Kg, n, mNE, adNE)
// NE = CBC[AES-256]-HMAC-SHA-256
cDS←⟨ adNE, cNE⟩
s←$ DS.Sig(sku, cDS)
// DS = Ed25519
Return (cNE, s)
Mat-EtS.VerDec(g, Kg, u, sku, n, c, ad)
(g.Id, g.ipk, g.uvk, g.iteration)← g
(cNE, s)← c ; adNE←⟨ ad, g.iteration⟩
cDS←⟨ adNE, cNE⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vku, cDS, s) then return⊥
mNE← NE.Dec(Kg, n, cNE, adNE)
If mNE =⊥then return⊥
⟨G, m⟩← mNE
If G̸= g.Id then return⊥
Return m
Fig.19: Symmetric signcryption schemeMat-EtS = Mat-ENCRYPT-THEN-SIGN[NE, DS].
Symmetric Signcryption in Matrix . The chain key corresponding to a useru at index iteration in a
group G is uniquely identified by(G, EKu, vku, iteration). Since kderived is deterministically derived from
the chain key and the per-message encryption key from kderived, the latter is also uniquely identified
by (G, EKu, vku, iteration). We use this observation to define a key groupg as g = ( g.Id, g.ipk, g.uvk,
g.iteration) where g.Id = G, g.ipk = EKu, g.uvk = vku, and g.iteration = iteration. For each key groupg =
(G, EKu, vku, iteration), group members share a symmetric keykg = kderived. Our Mat-EtS construction
uses this definition of key groups to model theMegolmEncrypt subroutine as a symmetric signcryption
scheme.
Construction 4. Let NE be a random-IV-based authenticated encryption scheme withNE.AD ={0, 1}∗
and DS be a digital signature scheme. ThenMat-EtS = Mat-ENCRYPT-THEN-SIGN[NE, DS] is the sym-
metric signcryption scheme as defined in Fig. 19, with group-key lengthMat-EtS.gkl = NE.kl, nonce space
Mat-EtS.NS ={0, 1}NE.nl, associated data spaceMTX.AD ={0, 1}∗, message spaceMat-EtS.MS ={0, 1}∗.
Security Analysis of Mat-EtS We identify two attacks, one against theIUF security and the other
against the OAE security of Mat-EtS: the first arises from insufficient binding between thes and g, and
the second results from the lack of binding between the symmetric ciphertextcNE and u. Both these
attacks are mitigated by the broader protocol and implicit binding.
Attacks against the IUF and OAE security of Mat-EtS. Consider the IUF security of Mat-EtS for
a key groupg = ( G, EKu, vku, iteration) and a useru. We can see from Fig. 19 thatMat-EtS never uses
its inputs g.Id, g.ipk, g.uvk, or the noncen. Therefore Mat-EtS is vulnerable to variants ofAttack-1 and
Attack-2 described in Section 3.2. For the remainder of this section, we refer to these asMatrix-Attack-1
and Matrix-Attack-2.
Now consider theOAEsecurity ofMat-EtS for a key groupg and a useru. We can see from Fig. 14 that
cNE does not explicitly bind tou. SoMat-EtS is vulnerable to a variant ofAttack-3 discussed in Section 3.2.
We refer to this attack asMatrix-Attack-3.
Mitigations in the broader protocol . We show that bothMatrix-Attack-1 and Matrix-Attack-2 are
mitigated in the broader protocol.
The use of Mat-EtS within Matrix prevents Matrix-Attack-1, 2. First we address the lack of
binding between the signatures and G and EKu. In Matrix, a user has distinct signing key pairs for each
group, preventing the exploitation of the former, and the identity keyEKu is also unique to a user (up
to collisions), preventing exploitation of the latter.
Exploiting the lack of nonce binding is mitigated because Matrix ensures that at most one nonce can
be used with a given key groupg.
Theimplicitbindingbetween cand uprevents Matrix-Attack-3.Akeygroup g uniquelyidentifies
a user within a group (up to collisions inEK and vk). Since the ciphertextcNE is produced usingKg, it
implicitly binds to the corresponding useru, mitigating Matrix-Attack-3.
26

Proving the weak IUF and OAE security of Mat-EtS.Inour IUFand OAEsecurityresultsfor Mat-EtS,
we use predicatespredsuf-except-group
trivial and predsuf-except-user
trivial to account for the lack of user binding and group
binding that lead to attacksMatrix-Attack-1 and Matrix-Attack-2 respectively.
Theorem 7. Let Mat-EtS = Mat-ENCRYPT-THEN-SIGN[NE, DS] be the symmetric signcryption scheme
built from someNE and DS as specified in Construction 4. Letpredsuf-except-group
trivial be the ciphertext-triviality
predicate as defined in Fig. 5. LetAIUF be any adversary against theIUF security of Mat-EtS with respect
to predsuf-except-group
trivial . Then we can build an adversaryASUFCMA such that
AdvIUF
Mat-EtS,predsuf-except-group
trivial
(AIUF)≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA).
Theorem 8. Let Mat-EtS = Mat-ENCRYPT-THEN-SIGN[NE, DS] be the symmetric signcryption scheme
built from someNE and DS as specified in Construction 4. Letpredeuf-except-user
trivial be the ciphertext-triviality
predicate as defined in Fig. 5. Let ASS
$-IV and ANE
$-IV be the classes of adversaries defined in Section 2
and Section 3 respectively. LetAOAE∈ ASS
$-IV be an adversary against theOAE security of Mat-EtS with
respect topredeuf-except-user
trivial . Then we can build an adversaryAAEAD∈ ANE
$-IV such that
AdvOAE
Mat-EtS,predsuf-except-user
trivial ,func⊥
out
(AOAE)≤ AdvAEAD
NE (AAEAD).
ThevariousimplementationsoftheSenderKeysprotocolfollowsimilarproceduresforestablishingand
propagating symmetric keys but differ in how these keys are applied to chat encryption, as seen in Signal
andMatrix.Bysolelyfocusingonthesymmetricsigncryptioninstancesunderlyingtheseimplementations,
our analysis helps precisely distinguish the varying security levels provided by different implementations.
6 Conclusions
We analyzed the composition of symmetric encryption and digital signatures in MLS, Session, Signal,
and Matrix using the symmetric signcryption primitive of [JKS24]. Isolating chat encryption in these
applications using the symmetric signcryption primitive allowed us to systematically identify potential
attacks against all four applications that resulted from the lack of explicit binding between the signing
and encryption components. To check whether these attacks translate into practical exploits, we carefully
analyzed the use of these constructions within the broader protocol, looking for implicit bindings that may
be enforced by higher level primitives. We identified novel insider replay attacks against MLS and Session.
Additionally, we observed the forgery attack against Signal that was previously identified by [BCG23],
though our analysis was narrower in scope than theirs. The discovery of these attacks not only speaks to
the value of the symmetric signcryption primitive, but also highlights the importance of formally defined
insider security notions for secure group messaging protocols.
References
ACD19. Joël Alwen, Sandro Coretti, and Yevgeniy Dodis. The double ratchet: Security notions, proofs,
and modularization for the Signal protocol. In Yuval Ishai and Vincent Rijmen, editors,EURO-
CRYPT 2019, Part I , volume 11476 of LNCS, pages 129–158. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2019.
doi:10.1007/978-3-030-17653-2_5. 3
ACDJ23. M. R. Albrecht, S. Celi, B. Dowling, and D. Jones. Practically-exploitable cryptographic vulner-
abilities in matrix. In 2023 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , pages 164–181, Los
Alamitos, CA, USA, may 2023. IEEE Computer Society. URL: https://doi.ieeecomputersociety.org/
10.1109/SP46215.2023.10351027, doi:10.1109/SP46215.2023.10351027. 3, 6
ACDT20. Joël Alwen, Sandro Coretti, Yevgeniy Dodis, and Yiannis Tselekounis. Security analysis and im-
provements for the IETF MLS standard for group messaging. In Daniele Micciancio and Thomas
Ristenpart, editors, CRYPTO 2020, Part I , volume 12170 ofLNCS, pages 248–277. Springer, Hei-
delberg, August 2020. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-56784-2_9. 6
ACDT21. JoëlAlwen,SandroCoretti,YevgeniyDodis,andYiannisTselekounis. Modulardesignofsecuregroup
messaging protocols and the security of mls. InProceedings of the 2021 ACM SIGSAC Conference
on Computer and Communications Security , CCS ’21, page 1463–1483, New York, NY, USA, 2021.
Association for Computing Machinery.doi:10.1145/3460120.3484820. 3, 6, 17
27

ACJM20. Joël Alwen, Sandro Coretti, Daniel Jost, and Marta Mularczyk. Continuous group key agreement
with active security. In Rafael Pass and Krzysztof Pietrzak, editors,TCC 2020, Part II , volume 12551
of LNCS, pages 261–290. Springer, Heidelberg, November 2020.doi:10.1007/978-3-030-64378-2_10.
6
ADJ24. M. R. Albrecht, B. Dowling, and D. Jones. Device-oriented group messaging: A formal cryptographic
analysis of matrix’ core. In2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , pages 2666–1685,
Los Alamitos, CA, USA, may 2024. IEEE Computer Society. URL: https://doi.ieeecomputersociety.
org/10.1109/SP54263.2024.00075, doi:10.1109/SP54263.2024.00075. 3, 6
ADR02. Jee Hea An, Yevgeniy Dodis, and Tal Rabin. On the security of joint signature and encryption.
In Lars R. Knudsen, editor, EUROCRYPT 2002, volume 2332 of LNCS, pages 83–107. Springer,
Heidelberg, April / May 2002.doi:10.1007/3-540-46035-7_6. 4
AJM22. Joël Alwen, Daniel Jost, and Marta Mularczyk. On the insider security of MLS. In Yevgeniy Dodis
and Thomas Shrimpton, editors, CRYPTO 2022, Part II , volume 13508 of LNCS, pages 34–68.
Springer, Heidelberg, August 2022.doi:10.1007/978-3-031-15979-4_2. 6
AMPS22. Martin R. Albrecht, Lenka Mareková, Kenneth G. Paterson, and Igors Stepanovs. Four attacks and
a proof for telegram. In2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , pages 87–106, 2022.
doi:10.1109/SP46214.2022.9833666. 3
AP24. Martin R. Albrecht and Kenneth G. Paterson. Analysing cryptography in the wild - a retrospective.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2024/532, 2024. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/532. 3
BBR18. Karthikeyan Bhargavan, Richard Barnes, and Eric Rescorla. Treekem: Asynchronous decentralized
key management for large dynamic groups a protocol proposal for messaging layer security (mls).
https://hal.inria.fr/hal-02425247/file/treekem+%281%29.pdf, may 2018. 3
BBR+23. Richard Barnes, Benjamin Beurdouche, Raphael Robert, Jon Millican, Emad Omara, and Katriel
Cohn-Gordon. The Messaging Layer Security (MLS) Protocol. RFC 9420, July 2023. URL: https:
//www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9420, doi:10.17487/RFC9420. 3, 6, 13, 16, 17
BCG23. David Balbás, Daniel Collins, and Phillip Gajland. WhatsUpp with sender keys? Analysis, improve-
ments and security proofs. In Jian Guo and Ron Steinfeld, editors, ASIACRYPT 2023, Part V ,
volume 14442 of LNCS, pages 307–341. Springer, Heidelberg, December 2023. doi:10.1007/978-
981-99-8733-7_10. 3, 6, 27
BCK96. Mihir Bellare, Ran Canetti, and Hugo Krawczyk. Keying hash functions for message authentication.
InNealKoblitz,editor, CRYPTO’96,volume1109of LNCS,pages1–15.Springer,Heidelberg,August
1996. doi:10.1007/3-540-68697-5_1. 25
BDL+12. Daniel J. Bernstein, Niels Duif, Tanja Lange, Peter Schwabe, and Bo-Yin Yang. High-speed high-
security signatures. Journal of Cryptographic Engineering , 2(2):77–89, September 2012. doi:10.
1007/s13389-012-0027-1. 18
Ber05. Daniel J. Bernstein. The poly1305-AES message-authentication code. In Henri Gilbert and Helena
Handschuh, editors, FSE 2005, volume 3557 ofLNCS, pages 32–49. Springer, Heidelberg, February
2005. doi:10.1007/11502760_3. 18
Ber06. Daniel J. Bernstein. Curve25519: new diffie-hellman speed records. In Proceedings of the 9th In-
ternational Conference on Theory and Practice of Public-Key Cryptography , PKC’06, page 207–228,
Berlin, Heidelberg, 2006. Springer-Verlag.doi:10.1007/11745853_14. 18
Ber08. Daniel J. Bernstein. The Salsa20 Family of Stream Ciphers , page 84–97. Springer-Verlag, Berlin,
Heidelberg, 2008. URL: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-68351-3_8. 18
BFG+22. Alexander Bienstock, Jaiden Fairoze, Sanjam Garg, Pratyay Mukherjee, and Srinivasan Raghuraman.
A more complete analysis of the Signal double ratchet algorithm. In Yevgeniy Dodis and Thomas
Shrimpton, editors, CRYPTO 2022, Part I , volume 13507 ofLNCS, pages 784–813. Springer, Hei-
delberg, August 2022. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-15802-5_27. 3
BR06. Mihir Bellare and Phillip Rogaway. The security of triple encryption and a framework for code-based
game-playing proofs. In Serge Vaudenay, editor,EUROCRYPT 2006, volume 4004 ofLNCS, pages
409–426. Springer, Heidelberg, May / June 2006.doi:10.1007/11761679_25. 30
BRO+24. Benjamin Beurdouche, Eric Rescorla, Emad Omara, Srinivas Inguva, and Alan Duric. The Messaging
Layer Security (MLS) Architecture. Internet-Draft draft-ietf-mls-architecture-15, Internet Engineer-
ing Task Force, August 2024. Work in Progress. URL: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-
mls-architecture/15/. 6, 17
BS20. Mihir Bellare and Igors Stepanovs. Security under message-derived keys: Signcryption in iMessage.
In Anne Canteaut and Yuval Ishai, editors,EUROCRYPT 2020, Part III , volume 12107 ofLNCS,
pages 507–537. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2020.doi:10.1007/978-3-030-45727-3_17. 3
28

CGCD+17. Katriel Cohn-Gordon, Cas Cremers, Benjamin Dowling, Luke Garratt, and Douglas Stebila. A formal
security analysis of the signal messaging protocol. In2017 IEEE European Symposium on Security
and Privacy (EuroS&P) , pages 451–466, 2017.doi:10.1109/EuroSP.2017.27. 3
CS03. Ronald Cramer and Victor Shoup. Design and analysis of practical public-key encryption schemes
secure against adaptive chosen ciphertext attack.SIAM Journal on Computing , 33(1):167–226, 2003.
18
DFG+23. Gareth T. Davies, Sebastian H. Faller, Kai Gellert, Tobias Handirk, Julia Hesse, Máté Horváth, and
Tibor Jager. Security analysis of the WhatsApp end-to-end encrypted backup protocol. In Helena
Handschuh and Anna Lysyanskaya, editors,CRYPTO 2023, Part IV , volume 14084 ofLNCS, pages
330–361. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2023.doi:10.1007/978-3-031-38551-3_11. 3
FG24. Rune Fiedler and Felix Günther. Security analysis of signal’s PQXDH handshake. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Paper 2024/702, 2024. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/702. 3
JKS24. Joseph Jaeger, Akshaya Kumar, and Igors Stepanovs. Symmetric signcryption and E2EE group
messaging in keybase. In Marc Joye and Gregor Leander, editors,EUROCRYPT 2024, Part III ,
volume 14653 of LNCS, pages 283–312. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2024.doi:10.1007/978-3-031-
58734-4_10. 3, 27
JSH24. Kee Jefferys, Maxim Shishmarev, and Simon Harman. Session: End-to-end encrypted conversations
with minimal metadata leakage, 2024. URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.04609,arXiv:2002.04609.
18
KE10. Hugo Krawczyk and Pasi Eronen. HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation Function
(HKDF). RFC 5869, May 2010. URL: https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5869, doi:10.17487/
RFC5869. 25
Kli21. Tijana Klimovic. Modular design of the messaging layer security (mls) protocol. Master’s thesis,
ETH Zurich, 2021. Accessed: 2024-09-28. URL: https://ethz.ch/content/dam/ethz/special-interest/
infk/inst-infsec/appliedcrypto/education/theses/masters-thesis_tijana-klimovic.pdf. 17
KPPW+21. Karen Klein, Guillermo Pascual-Perez, Michael Walter, Chethan Kamath, Margarita Capretto,
Miguel Cueto, Ilia Markov, Michelle Yeo, Joël Alwen, and Krzysztof Pietrzak. Keep the dirt:
Tainted TreeKEM, adaptively and actively secure continuous group key agreement. In2021 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy , pages 268–284. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2021.
doi:10.1109/SP40001.2021.00035. 6
Kra10. Hugo Krawczyk. Cryptographic extraction and key derivation: The HKDF scheme. In Tal Rabin,
editor, CRYPTO 2010, volume 6223 ofLNCS, pages 631–648. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2010.
doi:10.1007/978-3-642-14623-7_34. 25
Mar14. Moxie Marlinspike. Private group messaging. https://signal.org/blog/private-groups/, may 2014. 3,
21
Mata. Matrix. Matrix. https://matrix.org/. 3
Matb. Matrix. Megolm group ratchet. https://gitlab.matrix.org/matrix-org/olm/-/raw/master/docs/
megolm.md. 25
MP16. Moxie Marlinspike and Trevor Perrin. The double ratchet algorithm. https://signal.org/docs/
specifications/doubleratchet/doubleratchet.pdf, nov 2016. 3, 21
RMS18. Paul Rösler, Christian Mainka, and Jörg Schwenk. More is less: On the end-to-end security of group
chats in signal, whatsapp, and threema. In2018 IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy
(EuroS&P), pages 415–429, 2018.doi:10.1109/EuroSP.2018.00036. 3
Rog04. Phillip Rogaway. Nonce-based symmetric encryption. In Bimal K. Roy and Willi Meier, editors,
FSE 2004 , volume 3017 of LNCS, pages 348–359. Springer, Heidelberg, February 2004. doi:10.
1007/978-3-540-25937-4_22. 7
RS06. Phillip Rogaway and Thomas Shrimpton. A provable-security treatment of the key-wrap problem.
In Serge Vaudenay, editor, EUROCRYPT 2006, volume 4004 of LNCS, pages 373–390. Springer,
Heidelberg, May / June 2006.doi:10.1007/11761679_23. 7
SA15. Markku-Juhani O. Saarinen and Jean-Philippe Aumasson. The BLAKE2 Cryptographic Hash and
Message Authentication Code (MAC). RFC 7693, November 2015. URL: https://www.rfc-editor.
org/info/rfc7693, doi:10.17487/RFC7693. 18
Sesa. Session. Session. https://www.getsession.org/. 3
Sesb. Session. Sessiondesktop – MessageEncrypter.ts – encryptUsingSessionProtocol. https://github.com/
oxen-io/session-desktop/blob/unstable/ts/session/crypto/MessageEncrypter.ts#L65. 18
Shr04. Tom Shrimpton. A characterization of authenticated-encryption as a form of chosen-ciphertext
security. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2004/272, 2004. https://eprint.iacr.org/2004/272. 7
Sig. Signal. Signal. https://signal.org/. 3
29

A Notation and Standard Definitions
A.1 Notation
Let N ={0, 1, 2, . . .}. Let ε denote the empty string.. Ifx∈{ 0, 1}∗ is a bit-string then|x| denotes its
length, x[i] denotes its i-th bit for 1≤ i≤| x|, and x[i..j] = x[i] . . . x[j] for 1≤ i≤ j≤| x|. We denote
the concatenation of stringsx, y∈{ 0, 1}∗ by x∥ y. We write⟨a, b, . . .⟩ to denote an injective encoding
of a, b, . . .into a bit-string that is uniquely decodable, where each of the encoded elements can have an
arbitrary data type. IfX is a finite set thenx←$ X denotes sampling uniformly fromX. If T is a table,
T[i] denotes the element of the table that is indexed byi. We let⊥̸∈{ 0, 1}∗ be an error code that
indicates rejection. When not specified, integers are initialized to0, strings to⊥, booleans to false, sets
to the empty set, and tables empty.
IfA is an algorithm then y←$AO1,O2,...(x1, x2, x3, . . .) denotes providingA with oracle access to
O1, O2, . . . (that it can call arbitrary number of times in any order) and running it on inputsx1, x2, . . .
to produce outputy. For deterministicA we use← instead of←$. [A(x)] denotes the set of all possible
outputs whenA is run on x. Theabort(x) instruction immediately halts an algorithm and outputsx.
Adversaries are algorithms and do not query their oracles on⊥.
For our definitions and proofs, we used the code-based framework of [BR06]. Security notions are
defined using games like in??. IfG is a game thenPr[G ] denotes the probability that the game outputs
true. “requirex” is shorthand for “If¬x then return⊥”. We use a sequence of "hybrid" games within a
single figure for our proofs. Comments of the form //G [i, j) indicate that a line of code is included in
games Gk for i≤ k < j. To identify changes made to thek-th hybrid, one should look for lines commented
as // G [i, k) for code that is no longer part of thek-th hybrid and // G [k, j)] for code that is newly
introduced in thek-th hybrid.
We frequently use the fundamental lemma of game playing in our proofs [BR06]. LetGi and Gi+1 be
games that are syntactically identical until after a boolean flagbad is set. Then,
Pr[Gi]− Pr[Gi+1]≤ Pr[badGi ] = Pr[ badGi+1 ] (1)
where Pr[badGi ] denotes the probability thatbad was set inGi.
A.2 Standard primitives
We use various standard cryptographic primitives including symmetric encryption schemes, nonce-based
encryption schemes, and digital signature schemes.
Symmetric encryption.Asymmetricencryptionscheme SEspecifiestwoalgorithms SE.Encand SE.Dec.
Additionally, SE specifies a key length SE.kl∈ N. Then encryption algorithm SE.Enc takes a key K∈
{0, 1}SE.kl and a message m∈{ 0, 1}∗ and outputs a ciphertext c. The deterministic decryption algo-
rithm SE.Dec takes a key K and a ciphertext c and outputs a message m∈ {0, 1}∗∪{⊥} where⊥
indicates decryption failure. The decryption correctness of a symmetric encryption scheme requires that
SE.Dec(K, SE.Enc(K, m)) = m holds for allK∈{ 0, 1}SE.kl and m∈{ 0, 1}∗.
Nonce-based encryption. A nonce-based encryption schemeNE specifies two deterministic algorithms
NE.Enc and NE.Dec along with a key length NE.kl ∈ N, a nonce length NE.nl ∈ N, and an associ-
ated data space NE.AD. The encryption algorithm NE.Enc takes a key K ∈ {0, 1}NE.kl, a nonce n∈
{0, 1}NE.nl, a message m∈{ 0, 1}∗, and associated data ad∈ NE.AD and returns a ciphertext c. The
decryption algorithm NE.Dec takes K, n, c, ad and outputs a message m∈{ 0, 1}∗∪{⊥} where⊥ de-
notes decryption failure. The decryption correctness of a nonce-based encryption scheme requires that
NE.Dec(K, n, NE.Enc(K, n, m, ad), ad) = m holds for allK∈{ 0, 1}SE.kl, n∈{ 0, 1}NE.nl, m∈{ 0, 1}∗, and
ad∈ NE.AD. For nonce-based encryption schemes withNE.AD ={ε}, we omit the last input fromNE.enc
and NE.dec.
Digital signatures.A digital signature schemeDSspecifies a signing key lengthDS.skl∈ N, a signature
length DS.sl∈ N, and three algorithms — the key generation algorithmDS.Kg returns a key pair(sk, vk)
30

where sk∈{ 0, 1}DS.skl is a signing key andvk is the corresponding verification key, the signing algorithm
DS.Sig takes sk and a message m∈{ 0, 1}∗ and returns a signatures∈{ 0, 1}DS.sl, and the verification
algorithm DS.Ver takes vk, m, and s an returns a boolean based on whethers is a valid signature onm
under vk. The correctness of a digital signature scheme requires thatDS.Ver(vk, m, s) = true holds for
all (sk, vk)∈ [DS.Kg], all m∈{ 0, 1}∗, and alls∈ [DS.Sig(sk, m)].
31

B Proofs for MLS
B.1 In-group UnForgeability of MLS-StE (Proof of Theorem 1)
Games G0–G2
AU,G,SigEnc,VerDec
IUF ; Return win
SigEnc(g, u, n, m, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and sk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
mDS←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, g.leafIndex, ad, m⟩
s←$ DS.Sig(sk[u], mDS) ; mNE← m∥ s
adNE←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, ad⟩
c← NE.Enc(K[g], n, mNE, adNE)
S← S∪{ (u, mDS, s)}
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)} ; Return c
NewHonUser(u)
NewHonGroup(g, users)
ExposeUser(u)
ExposeGroup(g)
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
NewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theIUF game as per Fig. 4.
VerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and vk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
adNE←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, ad⟩
mNE← NE.Dec(Kg, n, c, adNE)
If mNE =⊥ then return⊥
m∥ s← mNE
mDS←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, g.leafIndex, ad, m⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vk[u], mDS, s) then return⊥
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)
If∃g′, n′, c′ : (( g′, u, n′, m, ad), c′)∈ C then return m
If¬user is corrupt[u] then
If (u, mDS, s)̸∈ S then
bad0← true //ASUFCMA breaks SUFCMA of DS.
win← true //G[0,1)
Else // (u, mDS, s)∈ S
bad1← true // This step is unreachable
win← true //G[0,2)
Return m
AdversaryAU,Sign
SUFCMA
ASimU,SimG,SimSigEnc,SimVerDec
IUF
SimSigEnc(g, u, n, m, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and sk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
mDS←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, g.leafIndex, ad, m⟩
s←$ Sign(u, mDS) ; mNE← m∥ s
adNE←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, ad⟩
c← NE.Enc(K[g], n, mNE, adNE)
S← S∪{ (u, cDS, s)}
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)} ; Return c
SimNewHonGroup(g, users)
SimExposeGroup(g)
SimNewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theIUF game for MLS-StE as per Fig. 4.
SimVerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and vk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
adNE←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, ad⟩
mNE← NE.Dec(Kg, n, c, adNE)
If mNE =⊥ then return⊥
m∥ s← mNE
mDS←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, g.leafIndex, ad, m⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vk[u], mDS, s) then return⊥
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)
If∃g′, n′, c′ : (( g′, u, n′, m, ad), c′)∈ C then return m
If¬user is corrupt[u] then
If (u, cDS, s)̸∈ S then
z← (u, cDS, s)
abort(z)
Return m
SimNewHonUser(u)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
sk[u]← “dummy”
vk[u]← NewHonUser(u)
Return vk[u]
SimExposeUser(u)
require sk [u]̸=⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
sk[u]← ExposeUser(u)
Return sk[u]
SimNewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
sk[u]← sk ; vk[u]← vk
Fig.20: Top pane: Games G0–G2 for the proof of Theorem 1. The code highlighted in gray was
added by expanding the symmetric signcryption algorithmsMLS-StE.SigEnc, MLS-StE.VerDec in game
G IUF
MLS-StE,predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial
(AIUF). The code added for the transitions between games is highlighted in
purple. Bottom pane: AdversaryASUFCMA for the proof of Theorem 1. Thehighlighted instructions
mark the changes in the code of the simulated gameG0.
32

Over view. This proof uses gamesG0 through G2 in Fig. 20. We establish the following claims.
1. AdvIUF
MLS-StE,predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial
(AIUF) = Pr[G0]
2. Pr[G0]− Pr[G1]≤ Pr[badG0
0 ]
3. Pr[G1]− Pr[G2]≤ Pr[badG1
1 ]
4. Pr[G2] = 0
5. Pr[badG0
0 ]≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA)
6. Pr[badG1
1 ] = 0
By combining the above, we have
AdvIUF
MLS-StE,predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial
(AIUF) = Pr[G0] =
1X
i=0
(Pr[Gi]− Pr[Gi+1]) + Pr[G2]
≤ Pr[badG0
0 ] + Pr[badG1
1 ]
≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA).
We justify our claims in the following paragraphs.
Game G0. Game G0 is functionally equivalent to gameG IUF
MLS-StE,predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial
(AIUF). The former ex-
pands multiple instructions in the latter; the expanded code is marked ingray. Game G0 also contains
newly added code that is highlighted inpurple and does not affect its functionality; this code will be
used for transitions between games. In particular, theif-then-else statement that was added in oracle
VerDec sets the win flag in each of its conditional branches. It follows that
AdvIUF
MLS-StE,predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial
(AIUF) = Pr[G0].
Transitions from G0 to G2. Let i∈{ 0, 1}. GamesGi and Gi+1 are identical untilbadi is set, therefore
Pr[Gi]− Pr[Gi+1]≤ Pr[badGi
i ].
Each of these transitions removes an instruction that sets thewin flag. The win flag can no longer be set
in gameG2, making it impossible forAIUF to win. We have
Pr[G2] = 0 .
Bounding Pr[badG0
0 ]. In Fig. 20 we build an adversaryASUFCMA against the SUFCMA security of DS.
It simulates game G0 for adversaryAIUF as follows. When adversaryAIUF calls the user oracles in the
IUF security game, adversaryASUFCMA responds by using its own user oracles from theSUFCMA security
game. In response toAIUF’s calls to the group oracles in theIUF security game, we haveASUFCMA respond
by honestly sampling and managing its ownNE keys. WhenAIUF calls the SigEnc oracle, adversary
ASUFCMA can now simulate it by using itsSign oracle. Finally,AIUF’s calls to theVerDec oracle can be
trivially simulated byASUFCMA because this oracle does not useDS signing keys. Observe thatbad0 can be
set in gameG0 only afterVerDec confirms the following three statements to be true:DS.Ver(vk[u], ms, s),
¬user is corrupt[u],and (u, ms, s)̸∈ S.Theseareexactlythethreewinningconditionsusedinthe SUFCMA
security game, soASUFCMA halts withabort(u, ms, s) whenever it detectsbad0 being set in the simulated
IUF security game. We have
Pr[badG0
0 ]≤ Pr[G SUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA)] = AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA).
Bounding Pr[badG1
1 ]. Now consider what conditions need to be met forbad1 to be set in gameG1. This
only happens when̸∃ g′, n′, c′ : (( g′, u, n′, m, ad), c′)∈ C and (u, ms, s)∈ S are simultaneously true. We
can use the definitionms to expand (u, ms, s)∈ S into ((u,⟨g.Id, g.ep, g.leafIndex, ad, m⟩), s)∈ S. There-
fore, bad1 isonlysetin G1 when̸∃ g′, u′, c′ : (( g′, u, n′, m, ad), c′)∈ C and ((u,⟨g.Id, g.ep, g.leafIndex, ad, m⟩), s)∈
S. The latter means that there was a previous call toSigEnc of the form (g, u, n, m, ad). Let c be the
ciphertext that was returned by thisSigEnc call. Then by definition of theSigEnc oracle we have that
((g, u, n, m, ad), c)∈ C. But the first condition gives us̸∃ g′, u′, c′ : (( g′, u, n′, m, ad), c′)∈ C. We get a
contradiction, and hence
Pr[badG1
1 ] = 0 .
33

B.2 Out-group Authenticated Encryption of MLS-StE (Proof of Theorem 2)
Games G0–G2
b←${0, 1} ; b′←$AU,G,SigEnc,VerDec
OAE ; Return b = b′
SigEnc(g, u, n, m0, m1, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and|m0| =|m1|
require sk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
require (g, n)̸∈ N
If m0̸= m1 then
If group is corrupt[g] then return⊥ else chal[g]← true
mDS←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, g.leafIndex, ad, mb⟩
s←$ DS.Sig(sk[u], mDS) ; mNE← mb∥ s
adNE←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, ad⟩
c← NE.Enc(K[g], n, mNE, adNE)
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, mb, ad), c)}
N← N∪{ (g, n)}
W [g, u, n, c, ad]← m1 ; Return c
VerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬group is corrupt[g]
require vk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
If∃u′ : W [g, u′, n, c, ad]̸=⊥ then return⊥ //G[1,∞)
adNE←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, ad⟩
mNE← NE.Dec(K[g], n, c, adNE)
If mNE =⊥ then return⊥
m∥ s← mNE
mDS←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, g.leafIndex, ad, m⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vk[u], mDS, s) then return⊥
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c) //G[0,2)
If∃u′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c)∈ C then return⊥//G[0,2)
If b = 0 then return⊥ else return m
NewHonUser(u)
NewHonGroup(g, users)
ExposeUser(u)
ExposeGroup(g)
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
NewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theOAE game for MLS-StE as per Fig. 4.
AdversaryAG,Enc,Dec
AEAD
b′←$ASimU,SimG,SimSigEnc,SimVerDec
OAE ; Return b′
SimSigEnc(g, u, n, m0, m1, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and|m0| =|m1|
require sk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
If m0̸= m1 then
If group is corrupt[g] then return⊥ else chal[g]← true
∀d∈{ 0, 1}, mDS,d←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, g.leafIndex, ad, md⟩
∀d∈{ 0, 1}, sd←$ DS.Sig(sk[u], mDS,d)
mNE,d← md∥ sd
adNE←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, ad⟩
c← Enc(K[g], n, mNE,0, mNE,1adNE)
Else // m0 = m1
ms←⟨ g, n, m0, ad⟩ ; s←$ DS.Sig(sk[u], ms)
mNE← m0∥ s ; adNE←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, ad⟩
c← Enc((g, u), n, mNE, mNE, adNE)
W [g, u, n, c, ad]← m1 ; Return c
SimVerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬group is corrupt[g]
require vk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
If∃u′ : W [g, u′, n, c, ad]̸=⊥ then return⊥
adNE←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, ad⟩
mNE← Dec(Kg, n, c, adNE)
If mNE =⊥ then return⊥
abort(1) // mNE̸=⊥ possible only whenb = 1.
SimNewHonUser(u)
SimExposeUser(u)
SimNewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theOAE game for MLS-StE as per Fig. 4.
SimNewHonGroup(g, users)
require K [g] =⊥
K[g]← “dummy”
NewHonGroup(g)
members[g]← users
SimExposeGroup(g)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬chal[g]
group is corrupt[g]← true
K[g]← ExposeGroup(g)
Return K[g]
SimNewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
require K [g] =⊥
group is corrupt[g]← true
NewCorrGroup(g, K)
K[g]← K ; members[g]← users
Fig.21: Top pane:Games G0–G2 for the proof of Theorem 2. The code highlighted ingray was added by
expanding the symmetric signcryption algorithmsMLS-StE.SigEnc, MLS-StE.VerDec and the ciphertext-
trivialitypredicate predsuf-except-user
trivial ingame G OAE
MLS-StE,predsuf-except-user
trivial
(AOAE).Thecodeaddedforthetransitions
between games is highlighted inpurple. Bottom pane: AdversaryAAEAD for the proof of Theorem 2.
The highlighted instructions mark the changes in the code of the simulated gameG2.
34

Over view. This proof uses gamesG0 through G2 in Fig. 21. We establish the following claims.
1. AdvOAE
MLS-StE,predsuf-except-user
trivial
(AOAE) = 2· Pr[G0]− 1
2. Pr[G0] = Pr[G1]
3. Pr[G1] = Pr[G2]
4. 2· Pr[G2]− 1≤ AdvAEAD
NE (AAEAD)
By combining the above, we have
AdvOAE
MLS-StE,predsuf-except-user
trivial
(AOAE) = 2· Pr[G0]− 1
= 2· Pr[G2]− 1≤ AdvAEAD
NE (AAEAD).
We justify our claims in the following paragraphs.
Game G0. Game G0 is functionally equivalent to gameG OAE
MLS-StE,predsuf-except-user
trivial
(AOAE). The former expands
multiple instructions in the latter; the expanded code is marked ingray. Game G0 also contains newly
added code that is highlighted inpurple and does not affect its functionality; this code will be used for
transitions between games. It follows that
AdvOAE
MLS-StE,predsuf-except-user
trivial
(AOAE) = 2· Pr[G0]− 1.
Transition from G0 to G1. Game G1 maintains a table W within the SigEnc oracle, that maps
(g, u, n, c, ad) to m1, to record all ciphertexts that are returned by theSigEnc oracle. Subsequently
G1 uses the table W in VerDec to detect if the adversary queries such a ciphertext to theVerDec
oracle (with the matching values ofg, n, ad), and immediately returns⊥. We claim that
Pr[G0] = Pr[G1].
To justify this claim, we look at howG0 treats an honestly produced ciphertext that was forwarded
from the SigEnc oracle to the VerDec oracle. Consider an arbitrary SigEnc query that took some
(g∗, u∗, n∗, m∗
0, m∗
1, ad∗) as input to return a ciphertextc∗. At the end of thisSigEnc call, the sets C,
and Q are updated to insert new elements that are created from the input(g∗, u∗, n∗, m∗
0, m∗
1, ad∗) and
output c∗. Now consider what happens if theVerDec oracle is queried on(g∗, u∗, n∗, c∗, ad∗) at any point
later on. If the condition checking¬group is corrupt[g] passes, then the decryption correctness ofNE and
the correctness ofDSjointly guarantee thatVerDecbuilds z = ((g∗, u∗, n∗, m∗
b , ad∗), c∗). But exactly the
same tuple was inserted intoC during the earlierSigEnc call. It follows that∃u′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c)∈ C
is true and theVerDec oracle returns⊥. Therefore, the outputs ofVerDec are consistent acrossG0
and G1.
Transition from G1 to G2. Note that the condition checking ∃u′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c) ∈ C in the
VerDec oracle of game G1 can never be reached. In particular, if∃u′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c)∈ C eval-
uates to true then∃u′ : W [g, u, n, c, ad]̸=⊥ must also be true. The latter causesVerDec to return⊥
at the beginning of the oracle execution. So in gameG2 we remove the two lines of code that buildz and
check whether it the query is a trivially forwarded ciphertext. GameG2 is equivalent to gameG1, so
Pr[G1] = Pr[G2].
Bounding Pr[G2].In Fig. 21 we build an adversaryAAEAD against theAEADsecurity ofNEthat simulates
the game G2 for adversaryAOAE. AdversaryAAEAD simulates the group oracles forAOAE by calling its
own group oracles, and it simulates the user oracles forAOAE by sampling its own keys forDS.
AdversaryAAEAD simulates the SigEnc oracle forAOAE by evaluating NE.Enc using its encryption
oracle Enc. When SigEnc is queried with m0 = m1 as input, adversaryAAEAD ensures that Enc is
likewise called with both of its challenge-message arguments being equal. This maintains consistency of
the challenge mapschal[·] between the simulated gameG2 and the AEAD security game ofAAEAD. When
SigEnc is queried with m0̸= m1 as input, note that|me,0| =|me,1| is guaranteed to hold whenever
|m0| =|m1| does, because we requireDS to produce signatures of a fixed lengthDS.sl.
AdversaryAAEAD simulates the VerDec oracle forAOAE by evaluating NE.Dec using its decryption
oracle Dec. If Dec returns me̸=⊥ then the challenge bit in gameG AEAD
NE (AAEAD) is b = 1 and hence
AAEAD immediately calls abort(1) in order to halt and return 1 as output. Otherwise (i.e. me =⊥)
adversaryAAEAD returns⊥ as the output of the simulatedVerDec oracle. Note that theAEAD security
game defines Dec to return⊥ in response to theNE ciphertexts that were previously produced by its
35

Enc oracle. This is equivalent to the case where a ciphertext is forwarded fromSigEnc to VerDec; the
use of the W map at the start of the simulatedVerDec oracle ensures that Dec is never called on a
replayed NE ciphertext.
Let d denote the challenge bit in gameG AEAD
NE (AAEAD), and letd′ denote the corresponding output of
adversaryAAEAD. If d = 0 thenAAEAD perfectly simulates gameG2 with challenge bitb = 0 for adversary
AOAE, and returns d′ = 1 iffAOAE returns b′ = 1. In particular, adversaryAAEAD perfectly simulates
the VerDec oracle because in gameG2 this oracle always returns⊥ if W [g, u, n, c, ad] =⊥ and b = 0.
We write Pr

d′ = 1
 d = 0

= Pr

b′ = 1
 b = 0

. If d = 1 thenAAEAD perfectly simulates gameG2 with
challenge bit b = 1 for adversaryAOAE until the first time NE.Dec produces non-⊥ in oracle VerDec
of game G2. When the latter happens,AAEAD halts with d′ = 1 regardless of whetherAOAE would have
returned b′ = 1. We writePr

d′ = 1
 d = 1

≥ Pr

b′ = 1
 b = 1

. It follows that
AdvAEAD
NE (AAEAD) = Pr

d′ = 1
 d = 1

− Pr

d′ = 1
 d = 0

≥ Pr

b′ = 1
 b = 1

− Pr

b′ = 1
 b = 0

= 2· Pr[G2]− 1.
The latter equality relies on the standard fact thatAOAE’s advantage in gameG2 can be expressed in two
alternative ways that are equivalent.
36

C Proofs for Session
C.1 In-group UnForgeability of SesLG-StE (Proof of Theorem 3)
Over view. We use gamesG0 through G2 in Fig. 22 to establish the following claims.
1. AdvIUF
SesLG-StE,predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial
(AIUF) = Pr[G0]
2. Pr[G0]− Pr[G1]≤ Pr[badG0
0 ]
3. Pr[G1]− Pr[G2]≤ Pr[badG1
1 ]
4. Pr[G2] = 0
5. Pr[badG0
0 ]≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA)
6. Pr[badG1
1 ] = 0
By combining the above, we have
AdvIUF
SesLG-StE,predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial
(AIUF) = Pr[G0] =
1X
i=0
(Pr[Gi]− Pr[Gi+1]) + Pr[G2]
≤ Pr[badG0
0 ] + Pr[badG1
1 ]
≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA).
The sequence of hybrids we use for this proof mirrors those used to prove theIUF security ofMLS-StE
in Appendix B. So the justifications for the corresponding claims follow analogously from those for
MLS-StE. The only difference is the justification for the bound onPr[badG1
1 ] (claim 6). We justify this
claim below. We do not provide individual descriptions to justify the other claims. Readers interested in
understanding each transition can refer to the relevant explanations in the prior section while consider-
ing Fig. 22.
Bounding Pr[badG1
1 ]. We know that ad = ε always holds. The flag bad1 is only set in gameG1 when
̸∃ g′, n′, c′ : (( g′, u, n′, m, ε), c′)∈ C and (u, ms, s)∈ S are simultaneously true. We can use the definition
ms to expand (u, ms, s)∈ S into (u, (m∥ vku∥ g.gpk), s)∈ S. Therefore, bad1 is only set in G1 when
̸∃ g′, n′, c′ : (( g′, u, n′, m, ε), c′)∈ C and (u, (m∥ vku∥ g.gpk), s)∈ S. The latter means that there was a
previous call toSigEncof the form(˜g, u, ˜n, m, ε)such that˜g.gpk = g.gpk. Let˜cbe the ciphertext that was
returned by thisSigEnccall. Then by definition of theSigEncoracle we have that((˜g, u, ˜n, m, ε), ˜c)∈ C.
But the first condition gives us̸∃ g′, n′, c′ : (( g′, u, n′, m, ε), c′)∈ C. We get a contradiction, and hence
Pr[badG1
1 ] = 0 .
37

Games G0–G2
AU,G,SigEnc,VerDec
IUF ; Return win
SigEnc(g, u, n, m, ad) // ad = ε
require K [g]̸=⊥ and sk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
(g.gpk, g.epk)← g
mDS← m∥ vku∥ g.gpk
s← DS.Sig(sku, mDS)
mNE← m∥ vku∥ s
c← NE.Enc(Kg, n, mNE)
S← S∪{ (u, mDS, s)}
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)} ; Return c
NewHonUser(u)
NewHonGroup(g, users)
ExposeUser(u)
ExposeGroup(g)
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
NewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theIUF game as per Fig. 4.
VerDec(g, u, n, c, ad) // n = ε
require K [g]̸=⊥ and vk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
(g.gpk, g.epk)← g
mNE← NE.Dec(Kg, n, c)
If mNE =⊥ then return⊥
m∥ vku∥ s← mNE
mDS← m∥ vku∥ g.gpk
If¬DS.Ver(vku, mDS, s) then return⊥
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)
If∃g′, n′, c′ : (( g, u, n, m, ad), c)∈ C then return m
If¬user is corrupt[u] then
If (u, cDS, s)̸∈ S then
bad0← true //ASUFCMA breaks SUFCMA of DS.
win← true //G[0,1)
Else // (u, cDS, s)∈ S
bad1← true // This step is unreachable
win← true //G[0,2)
Return m
AdversaryAU,Sign
SUFCMA
ASimU,SimG,SimSigEnc,SimVerDec
IUF
SimSigEnc(g, u, n, m, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and sk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
(g.gpk, g.epk)← g
mDS← m∥ vku∥ g.gpk
s← Sign(u, mDS)
mNE← m∥ vku∥ s
c← NE.Enc(Kg, n, mNE)
S← S∪{ (u, mDS, s)}
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)} ; Return c
SimNewHonGroup(g, users)
SimExposeGroup(g)
SimNewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theIUF game for StE as per Fig. 4.
SimVerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and vk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
(g.gpk, g.epk)← g
mNE← NE.Dec(Kg, n, c)
If mNE =⊥ then return⊥
m∥ vku∥ s← mNE
mDS← m∥ vku∥ g.gpk
If¬DS.Ver(vku, mDS, s) then return⊥
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)
If∃g′, n′, c′ : (( g, u, n, m, ad), c)∈ C then return m
If¬user is corrupt[u] then
If (u, mDS, s)̸∈ S then
z← (u, mDS, s)
abort(z)
Return m
SimNewHonUser(u)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
sk[u]← “dummy”
vk[u]← NewHonUser(u)
Return vk[u]
SimExposeUser(u)
require sk [u]̸=⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
sk[u]← ExposeUser(u)
Return sk[u]
SimNewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
sk[u]← sk ; vk[u]← vk
Fig.22: Top pane: Games G0–G2 for the proof of Theorem 3. The code highlighted in gray was
added by expanding the symmetric signcryption algorithmsSesLG-StE.SigEnc, SesLG-StE.VerDec in game
G IUF
SesLG-StE,predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial
(AIUF). The code added for the transitions between games is highlighted in
purple. Bottom pane: AdversaryASUFCMA for the proof of Theorem 3. Thehighlighted instructions
mark the changes in the code of the simulated gameG0.
38

C.2 Out-group Authenticated Encryption of SesLG-StE (Proof of Theorem 4)
Over view. This proof uses gamesG0 through G2 in Fig. 23 to establish the following claims.
1. AdvOAE
SesLG-StE,predsuf-except-user
trivial
(AOAE) = 2· Pr[G0]− 1
2. Pr[G0] = Pr[G1]
3. Pr[G1] = Pr[G2]
4. 2· Pr[G2]− 1≤ AdvAEAD
NE (AAEAD)
By combining the above, we have
AdvOAE
SesLG-StE,predsuf-except-user
trivial
(AOAE) = 2· Pr[G0]− 1
= 2· Pr[G2]− 1≤ AdvAEAD
NE (AAEAD).
The sequence of hybrids we use for this proof mirrors those used to prove theOAEsecurity ofMLS-StE
in Appendix B. So the justifications for the corresponding claims carry over analogously from those for
MLS-StE. We do not provide individual descriptions to justify the our claims. Readers interested in
understanding each transition can refer to the relevant explanations in the prior section while consider-
ing Fig. 23.
39

Games G0–G2
b←${0, 1} ; b′←$AU,G,SigEnc,VerDec
OAE
Return b = b′
SigEnc(g, u, n, m0, m1, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and|m0| =|m1|
require sk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
require (g, n)̸∈ N
If m0̸= m1 then
If group is corrupt[g] then return⊥
Else chal[g]← true
(g.gpk, g.epk)← g
mDS← m∥ vku∥ g.gpk
s← DS.Sig(sku, mDS)
mNE← m∥ vku∥ s
c← NE.Enc(Kg, n, mNE)
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, mb, ad), c)}
N← N∪{ (g, n)}
W [g, u, n, c, ad]← m1 ; Return c
VerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬group is corrupt[g]
require vk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
If∃u′ : W [g, u′, n, c, ad]̸=⊥ then return⊥ //G[1,∞)
(g.gpk, g.epk)← g
mNE← NE.Dec(Kg, n, c)
If mNE =⊥ then return⊥
m∥ vku∥ s← mNE
mDS← m∥ vku∥ g.gpk
If¬DS.Ver(vku, mDS, s) then return⊥
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c) //G[0,2)
If∃u′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c)∈ C then return⊥//G[0,2)
If b = 0 then return⊥ else return m
NewHonUser(u)
NewHonGroup(g, users)
ExposeUser(u)
ExposeGroup(g)
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
NewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theOAE game for SesLG-StE as per Fig. 4.
AdversaryAG,Enc,Dec
AEAD
b′←$ASimU,SimG,SimSigEnc,SimVerDec
OAE ; Return b′
SimSigEnc(g, u, n, m0, m1, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and|m0| =|m1|
require sk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
If m0̸= m1 then
If group is corrupt[g] then return⊥
chal[g]← true
∀d∈{ 0, 1}, mSig,d← m∥ vku∥ g.gpk
∀d∈{ 0, 1}, sd←$ DS.Sig(sk[u], mSig,d)
mNE,d← md∥ sd
adNE←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, ad⟩
c← Enc(K[g], n, mNE,0, mNE,1adNE)
Else // m0 = m1
ms←⟨ g, n, m0, ad⟩ ; s←$ DS.Sig(sk[u], ms)
mNE← m0∥ s ; adNE←⟨ g.Id, g.ep, ad⟩
c← Enc((g, u), n, mNE, mNE, adNE)
W [g, u, n, c, ad]← m1 ; Return c
SimVerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬group is corrupt[g]
require vk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
If∃u′ : W [g, u′, n, c, ad]̸=⊥ then return⊥
mNE← NE.Dec(Kg, n, c)
If mNE =⊥ then return⊥
abort(1) // mNE̸=⊥ possible only whenb = 1.
SimNewHonUser(u)
SimExposeUser(u)
SimNewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theOAE game for SesLG-StE as per Fig. 4.
SimNewHonGroup(g, users)
require K [g] =⊥
K[g]← “dummy”
NewHonGroup(g)
members[g]← users
SimExposeGroup(g)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬chal[g]
group is corrupt[g]← true
K[g]← ExposeGroup(g)
Return K[g]
SimNewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
require K [g] =⊥
group is corrupt[g]← true
NewCorrGroup(g, K)
K[g]← K ; members[g]← users
Fig.23: Top pane: Games G0–G2 for the proof of Theorem 4. The code highlighted in gray was
added by expanding the symmetric signcryption algorithms SesLG-StE.SigEnc, SesLG-StE.VerDec and
the ciphertext-triviality predicatepredsuf-except-user
trivial in game G OAE
SesLG-StE,predsuf-except-user
trivial
(AOAE). The code added
for the transitions between games is highlighted inpurple.Bottom pane:AdversaryAAEAD for the proof
of Theorem 4. Thehighlighted instructions mark the changes in the code of the simulated gameG2.
40

D Proofs for Signal
D.1 In-group UnForgeability of Sig-EtS (Proof of Theorem 5)
Over view. We use gamesG0 through G2 in Fig. 24 to establish the following claims.
1. AdvIUF
Sig-EtS,predsuf
trivial
(AIUF) = Pr[G0]
2. Pr[G0]− Pr[G1]≤ Pr[badG0
0 ]
3. Pr[G1]− Pr[G2]≤ Pr[badG1
1 ]
4. Pr[G2] = 0
5. Pr[badG0
0 ]≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA)
6. Pr[badG1
1 ] = 0
By combining the above, we have
AdvIUF
Sig-EtS,predsuf
trivial
(AIUF) = Pr[G0] =
1X
i=0
(Pr[Gi]− Pr[Gi+1]) + Pr[G2]
≤ Pr[badG0
0 ] + Pr[badG1
1 ]
≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA).
The sequence of hybrids we use for this proof mirrors those used to prove theIUF security ofMLS-StE
in Appendix B, except the ciphertext triviality predicatepredsuf
trivial used in this proof is different from
predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial used for MLS-StE. Still, the justifications for the corresponding claims follow
analogously from those forMLS-StE. The only difference is the justification for the bound onPr[badG1
1 ]
(claim 6). We justify this claim below. We do not provide individual descriptions to justify the other
claims. Readers interested in understanding each transition can refer to the relevant explanations in the
prior section while considering Fig. 24.
Bounding Pr[badG1
1 ]. The flagbad1 is only set in gameG1 when ((g, u, ε, m, ad), c)̸∈ C and (u, cDS, s)∈ S
are simultaneously true. We can use the definitioncDS to expand(u, cDS, s)∈ S into (u,⟨ad, g, cNE⟩, s)∈ S
where c = (cNE, s) Therefore, bad1 is only set inG1 when ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)̸∈ C and (u,⟨ad, g, cNE⟩, s)∈
S. The latter means that there was a previous call to SigEnc of the form (g, u, ˜n, ˜m, ad) such that
˜m = NE.Dec(K[g], ˜n, cNE). However, we know that for a given groupg, the adversary queries the same
nonce n to SigEnc and VerDec. Therefore, ˜n = n. By the decryption correctness of NE, we have
˜m = m. Then by definition of theSigEnc oracle we have that((g, u, n, m, ad), (cNE, s))∈ C. But the
first condition gives us((g, u, n, m, ad), c)̸∈ C. We get a contradiction, and hence
Pr[badG1
1 ] = 0 .
41

Games G0–G2
AU,G,SigEnc,VerDec
IUF ; Return win
SigEnc(g, u, n, m, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and sk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
cNE← NE.Enc(K[g], n, m)
cDS←⟨ ad, g, cNE⟩ ; s←$ DS.Sig(sk[u], cDS)
c← (cNE, s)
S← S∪{ (u, cDS, s)}
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)} ; Return c
NewHonUser(u)
NewHonGroup(g, users)
ExposeUser(u)
ExposeGroup(g)
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
NewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theIUF game as per Fig. 4.
VerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and vk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
(cNE, s)← c ; cDS←⟨ ad, g, cNE⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vk[u], cDS, s) then return⊥
m← NE.Dec(K[g], cNE)
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)
If (g, u, n, m, ad), c)∈ C then return m
If¬user is corrupt[u] then
If (u, cDS, s)̸∈ S then
bad0← true //ASUFCMA breaks SUFCMA of DS.
win← true //G[0,1)
Else // (u, cDS, s)∈ S
bad1← true // This step is unreachable
win← true //G[0,2)
Return m
AdversaryAU,Sign
SUFCMA
ASimU,SimG,SimSigEnc,SimVerDec
IUF
SimSigEnc(g, u, n, m, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and sk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
cNE← NE.Enc(K[g], n, m)
cDS←⟨ ad, g, cNE⟩ ; s← Sign(u, cDS)
c← (cNE, s)
S← S∪{ (u, cDS, s)}
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)} ; Return c
SimNewHonGroup(g, users)
SimExposeGroup(g)
SimNewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theIUF game for StE as per Fig. 4.
SimVerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and vk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
require g.userId = u
(cNE, s)← c ; cDS←⟨ ad, g, cNE⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vk[u], cDS, s) then return⊥
m← NE.Dec(K[g], cNE)
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)
If (g, u, n, m, ad), c)∈ C then return m
If¬user is corrupt[u] then
If (u, cDS, s)̸∈ S then
z← (u, cDS, s)
abort(z)
Return m
SimNewHonUser(u)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
sk[u]← “dummy”
vk[u]← NewHonUser(u)
Return vk[u]
SimExposeUser(u)
require sk [u]̸=⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
sk[u]← ExposeUser(u)
Return sk[u]
SimNewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
sk[u]← sk ; vk[u]← vk
Fig.24: Top pane: Games G0–G2 for the proof of Theorem 5. The code highlighted in gray was
added by expanding the symmetric signcryption algorithms Sig-EtS.SigEnc, Sig-EtS.VerDec in game
G IUF
Sig-EtS,predsuf
trivial
(AIUF). The code added for the transitions between games is highlighted inpurple. Bottom
pane: AdversaryASUFCMA for the proof of Theorem 5. Thehighlighted instructions mark the changes in
the code of the simulated gameG0.
42

Games G0–G4
b←${0, 1} ; b′←$AU,G,SigEnc,VerDec
OAE
Return b = b′
SigEnc(g, u, n, m0, m1, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and|m0| =|m1|
require sk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
If m0̸= m1 then
If group is corrupt[g] then return⊥
chal[g]← true
cNE← NE.Enc(K[g], n, m)
cDS←⟨ ad, g, cNE⟩
s←$ DS.Sig(sk[u], cDS)
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, mb, ad), c)}
S∪{ (u, cDS, s)}
Return (cNE, s)
NewHonUser(u)
NewHonGroup(g, users)
ExposeUser(u)
ExposeGroup(g)
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
NewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to the
// corresponding oracles in the
// OAE game for StE as per Fig. 4.
VerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬group is corrupt[g]
require vk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
(cNE, s)← c
cDS←⟨ ad, g, cNE⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vk[u], cDS, s) then return⊥
m← NE.Dec(K[g], cNE)
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)
If∃u′, c′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c′)∈ C then return⊥
If b = 0 then return⊥
If ((K[g], n, m), cNE)∈ CNE then
If (u, cDS, s)̸∈ S then
bad0← true //AOAE broke SUFCMA of DS.
Return m //G[0,1)
Return⊥ //G[1,∞)
Else // ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)∈ C
bad1← true // Unreachable inG1
Return m //G[0,2)
Return⊥ //G[2,∞)
Else // ((K[g], n, m), cNE)̸∈ CNE
If (u, cDS, s)̸∈ S then
bad2← true //AOAE broke SUFCMA of DS.
Return m //G[0,3)
Return⊥ //G[3,∞)
Else // ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)∈ C
bad3← true //AOAE broke correctness ofNE.
Return m //G[0,4)
Return⊥ //G[4,∞)
Fig.25: Games G0–G4 for the proof of Theorem 6. The code highlighted ingray was added by expanding
the symmetric signcryption algorithmsSig-EtS.SigEnc, Sig-EtS.VerDec in gameG OAE
Sig-EtS,predeuf
trivial
(AOAE). The
code added for the transitions between games is highlighted inpurple.
D.2 Out-group Authenticated Encryption of Sig-EtS (Proof of Theorem 6)
Over view. This proof uses gamesG0 through G4 in Fig. 25 to establish the following claims.
1. AdvOAE
Sig-EtS,predeuf
trivial
(AOAE) = 2· Pr[G0]− 1
2. Pr[G0]− Pr[G1]≤ Pr[badG0
0 ]
3. Pr[G1]− Pr[G2]≤ Pr[badG1
1 ]
4. Pr[G2]− Pr[G3]≤ Pr[badG2
2 ]
5. Pr[G3]− Pr[G4]≤ Pr[badG3
3 ]
6. 2· Pr[G4]− 1≤ AdvIND-CPA
NE (AIND-CPA)
7. Pr[badG0
0 ]≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA)
8. Pr[badG1
1 ] = 0
9. Pr[badG2
2 ]≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA)
10. Pr[badG3
3 ] = 0
By combining the above, we have
AdvOAE
Sig-EtS,predeuf
trivial
(AOAE) = 2· Pr[G0]− 1 = 2·
 3X
i=0
(Pr[Gi]− Pr[Gi+1]) + Pr[G4]
!
− 1
= 2·
 3X
i=0
Pr[badGi
i ] + Pr[G4]
!
− 1
=≤ 2· AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA) + AdvAEAD
NE (AAEAD).
We justify our claims in the following paragraphs.
43

AdversaryAG,Enc
IND-CPA
b′←$ASimU,SimG,SimSigEnc,SimVerDec
OAE
Return b′
SimSigEnc(g, u, n, m0, m1, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and|m0| =|m1|
require sk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
If m0̸= m1 then
If group is corrupt[g] then return⊥
chal[g]← true
cNE← Enc(g, n, m0, m1, ad)
cDS←⟨ ad, g, cNE⟩
s←$ DS.Sig(sk[u], cDS)
Return c
SimVerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
Return⊥
SimNewHonGroup(g, users)
require K [g] =⊥
K[g]← “dummy”
NewHonGroup(g)
members[g]← users
SimNewHonGroup(g, users)
SimExposeGroup(g)
SimNewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to
// the corresponding oracles in the
// OAE game for StE as per Fig. 4.
SimExposeGroup(g)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬chal[g]
group is corrupt[g]← true
K[g]← ExposeGroup(g)
Return K[g]
SimNewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
require K [g] =⊥
group is corrupt[g]← true
NewCorrGroup(g, K)
K[g]← K ; members[g]← users
Fig.26: AdversaryAAEAD for the proof of Theorem 6. Thehighlighted instructions mark the changes in
the code of the simulated gameG2.
Game G0. Game G0 is functionally equivalent to gameG OAE
Sig-EtS,predeuf
trivial
(AOAE). The former expands multiple
instructions in the latter; the expanded code is marked ingray. GameG0 also contains newly added code
that is highlighted inpurple and does not affect its functionality; this code will be used for transitions
between games. In particular, theif-then-else statements that were added in theVerDec oracle return
the decrypted messagem in each of the conditional branches. It follows that
AdvOAE
Sig-EtS,predeuf
trivial
(AOAE) = 2· Pr[G0]− 1.
Transitions from G0 to G4. Let i∈{ 3}. GamesGi and Gi+1 are identical untilbadi is set, therefore
Pr[Gi]− Pr[Gi+1]≤ Pr[badGi
i ].
Each of these transitions removes an instruction that returns the messagem. In the gameG4, theVerDec
oracle always returns⊥.
Bounding Pr[G4]. In Fig. 26 we build an adversaryAIND-CPA against the IND-CPA security of NE that
simulates the game G4 for adversaryAOAE. AdversaryAIND-CPA simulates the group oracles forAOAE
by calling its own group oracles, and it simulates the user oracles by sampling and maintaining its own
keys for DS. AdversaryAIND-CPA simulates the SigEnc oracle forAOAE by evaluating NE.Enc using its
encryption oracle Enc, the VerDec oracle by always returning⊥. Finally, whenAOAE returns a bitb′,
AIND-CPA returns b′ to its own game. It follows that
AdvIND-CPA
NE (AIND-CPA)≥ 2· Pr[G4]− 1.
Bounding Pr[badG0
0 ]. In Fig. 27 we build an adversaryA1
SUFCMA against theSUFCMA security ofDS that
simulates the gameG0 for adversaryAOAE. AdversaryA1
SUFCMA simulates the user oracles forAOAE by
calling its own user oracles, and it simulates the group oracles by sampling and maintaining its own keys
for NE. AdversaryA1
SUFCMA simulates the SigEnc oracle forAOAE by evaluatingDS.Sig using its signing
oracle Sign and the VerDec oracle by executing all the lines of code locally.
Now consider that conditions that are required to be met for bad0 to be set in G0. These are ̸
∃u′, c′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c′)∈ C, DS.Ver(vk[u], cDS, s), and(u, cDS, s)̸∈ S. Additionally,¬user is corrupt[u]
always holds as the adversaryAOAE never queries its ExposeUser or NewCorrUser oracles. There-
fore, whenever the bad0 flag is set in the simulated G0,¬user is corrupt[u], DS.Ver(vk[u], cDS, s), and
(u, cDS, s)̸∈ S simultaneously hold. These are the winning conditions forA1
SUFCMA. So wheneverbad0 is
set in the simulated gameG0, it halts withabort(u, cDS, s). We have
Pr[badG0
0 ]≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (A1
SUFCMA).
44

AdversariesA1
SUFCMA andA2
SUFCMA
RunASimU,SimG,SimSigEnc,SimVerDec
OAE
SimSigEnc(g, u, n, m0, m1, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and|m0| =|m1|
require sk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
If m0̸= m1 then
If group is corrupt[g] then return⊥
chal[g]← true
cNE← NE.Enc(K[g], n, m) ; cDS←⟨ ad, g, cNE⟩
s←$ Sign(u, cDS)
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, mb, ad), c)} ; S∪{ (u, cDS, s)}
Return (cNE, s)
SimNewHonGroup(g, users)
SimExposeGroup(g)
SimNewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theIUF game for StE as per Fig. 4.
SimVerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬group is corrupt[g]
require vk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
(cNE, s)← c ; cDS←⟨ ad, g, cNE⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vk[u], cDS, s) then return⊥
m← NE.Dec(K[g], cNE)
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)
If∃u′, c′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c′)∈ C then return⊥
If b = 0 then return⊥
If ((K[g], n, m), cNE)∈ CNE then
If (u, cDS, s)̸∈ S then return m
Else
z← (u, cDS, s) //A1
SUFCMA
abort(z) //A1
SUFCMA
Else
If (u, cDS, s)̸∈ S then return m
Else
z← (u, cDS, s) //A2
SUFCMA
abort(z) //A2
SUFCMA
SimNewHonUser(u)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
sk[u]← “dummy”
vk[u]← NewHonUser(u)
Return vk[u]
SimExposeUser(u)
require sk [u]̸=⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
sk[u]← ExposeUser(u)
Return sk[u]
SimNewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
sk[u]← sk ; vk[u]← vk
Fig.27: AdversariesA1
SUFCMA andA2
SUFCMA for the proof of Theorem 6. Thehighlighted instructions mark
the changes in the code of the simulated gamesG0 and G2 respectively. We use comments to highlight the
lines executed by a particular adversary.
Bounding Pr[badG1
1 ].Letusconsidertheconditionsthatneedtomemetfor bad1 tobesetin G1.Theseare
̸∃ u′, c′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c′)∈ C, ((K[g], n, m), cNE)∈ CNE, and (u, cDS, s)∈ S. We can use the definition
of cDS to expand the last one into(u,⟨ad, g, cNE⟩, s)∈ S. Combining this with((K[g], n, m), cNE)∈ CNE, we
know that there was a previous query toSigEnc of the form(g, u, n, m, ad) that produced the ciphertext
(cNE, s). By the definition of SigEnc, we have ((g, u, n, m, ad), (cNE, s))∈ C. However, from the first
condition we have that̸∃ u′, c′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c′)∈ C. We have a contradiction and hence
Pr[badG1
1 ] = 0 .
Bounding Pr[badG2
2 ]. In Fig. 27 we build an adversaryA2
SUFCMA against theSUFCMA security ofDS that
simulates the gameG0 for adversaryAOAE. AdversaryA2
SUFCMA simulates the user oracles forAOAE by
calling its own user oracles, and it simulates the group oracles by sampling and maintaining its own keys
for NE.
AdversaryA2
SUFCMA simulates theSigEncoracle forAOAE by evaluatingDS.Sig using its signing oracle
Sign. AdversaryA2
SUFCMA simulates the VerDec oracle for by executing all the lines of code locally.
Now consider that conditions that are required to be met for bad0 to be set in G0. These are ̸
∃u′, c′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c′)∈ C, DS.Ver(vk[u], cDS, s), and(u, cDS, s)̸∈ S. Additionally,¬user is corrupt[u]
always holds as the adversaryAOAE never queries its ExposeUser or NewCorrUser oracles. There-
fore, whenever the bad0 flag is set in the simulated G0,¬user is corrupt[u], DS.Ver(vk[u], cDS, s), and
(u, cDS, s)̸∈ S simultaneously hold. These are the winning conditions forA2
SUFCMA. So wheneverbad0 is
set in the simulated gameG0, it halts withabort(u, cDS, s). We have
Pr[badG0
0 ]≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (A2
SUFCMA).
45

Bounding Pr[badG3
3 ]. Let us consider the conditions that need to me met for bad3 to be set in G3.
These are̸∃ u′, c′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c′)∈ C, ((K[g], n, m), cNE)̸∈ CNE, and (u, cDS, s)∈ S. We can use
the definition of cDS to expand the last one into (u,⟨ad, g, cNE⟩, s) ∈ S. So there must have been a
previous query toSigEnc of the form(g, u, n, ˜m, ad) that produced the ciphertext(cNE, s). However, the
decryption correctness ofNE we have that ˜m = m. This means that the previous query toSigEnc was
of the form(g, u, n, m, ad). By the definition ofSigEnc, we have that((g, u, n, m, ad), (cNE, s)). But the
first condition gives̸∃ u′, c′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c′)∈ C. We have a contradiction and hence
Pr[badG3
3 ] = 0 .
46

E Proofs for Matrix
E.1 In-group UnForgeability of Mat-EtS (Proof of Theorem 7)
Over view. We use gamesG0 through G2 in Fig. 28 to establish the following claims.
1. AdvIUF
Mat-EtS,predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial
(AIUF) = Pr[G0]
2. Pr[G0]− Pr[G1]≤ Pr[badG0
0 ]
3. Pr[G1]− Pr[G2]≤ Pr[badG1
1 ]
4. Pr[G2] = 0
5. Pr[badG0
0 ]≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA)
6. Pr[badG1
1 ] = 0
By combining the above, we have
AdvIUF
Mat-EtS,predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial
(AIUF) = Pr[G0] =
1X
i=0
(Pr[Gi]− Pr[Gi+1]) + Pr[G2]
≤ Pr[badG0
0 ] + Pr[badG1
1 ]
≤ AdvSUFCMA
DS (ASUFCMA).
The sequence of hybrids we use for this proof mirrors those used to prove theIUF security ofMLS-StE
in Appendix B, except the ciphertext triviality predicatepredsuf-except-user
trivial we use in this proof is different
from predeuf-except-nonce-and-group
trivial used forMLS-StE. Still the justifications for the corresponding claims carry
overanalogouslyfromthosefor MLS-StE.Theonlydifferenceisthejustificationfortheboundon Pr[badG1
1 ]
(claim 6). We justify this claim below. We do not provide individual descriptions to justify the other
claims. Readers interested in understanding each transition can refer to the relevant explanations in the
prior section while considering Fig. 28.
Bounding Pr[badG1
1 ]. The flag bad1 is only set in game G1 when ∄g′ : (( g′, u, n, m, ad), c) ∈ C and
(u, cDS, s)∈ S are simultaneously true. We can use the definitioncDS to expand (u, cDS, s)∈ S into
(u,⟨adNE, cNE⟩, s)∈ S. Therefore, bad1 is only set in G1 when ∄g′, n′, c′ : (( g′, u, n′, m, ε), c′)∈ C and
(u, (m∥ vku∥ g.gpk), s)∈ S. The latter means that there was a previous call toSigEnc of the form
(˜g, u, ˜n, m, ε) such that ˜g.gpk = g.gpk. Let ˜c be the ciphertext that was returned by thisSigEnc call.
Then by definition of theSigEnc oracle we have that((˜g, u, ˜n, m, ε), ˜c)∈ C. But the first condition gives
us ∄g′, n′, c′ : (( g′, u, n′, m, ε), c′)∈ C. We get a contradiction, and hence
Pr[badG1
1 ] = 0 .
47

Games G0–G2
AU,G,SigEnc,VerDec
IUF ; Return win
SigEnc(g, u, n, m, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and sk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
(g.Id, g.ipk, g.uvk, g.iteration)← g
mNE←⟨ g.Id, m⟩ ; adNE←⟨ ad, g.iteration⟩
cNE← NE.Enc(K[g], n, mNE, adNE)
cDS←⟨ adNE, cNE⟩
s←$ DS.Sig(sk[u], cDS) ; c← (cNE, s)
S← S∪{ (u, cDS, s)}
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)} ; Return c
NewHonUser(u)
NewHonGroup(g, users)
ExposeUser(u)
ExposeGroup(g)
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
NewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theIUF game as per Fig. 4.
VerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and vk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
(g.Id, g.ipk, g.uvk, g.iteration)← g
(cNE, s)← c ; adNE←⟨ ad, g.iteration⟩
cDS←⟨ adNE, cNE⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vk[u], cDS, s) then return⊥
mNE← NE.Dec(K[g], n, cNE, adNE)
If mNE =⊥then reutrn⊥
⟨G, m⟩← mNE
If G̸= g.Id then return⊥
Z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)
If predsuf-except-group
trivial (z, C) then return m
If¬user is corrupt[u] then
If (u, cDS, s)̸∈ S then
bad0← true //ASUFCMA breaks SUFCMA of DS.
win← true //G[0,1)
Else // (u, cDS, s)∈ S
bad1← true // This step is unreachable
win← true //G[0,2)
Return m
AdversaryAU,Sign
SUFCMA
ASimU,SimG,SimSigEnc,SimVerDec
IUF
SimSigEnc(g, u, n, m, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and sk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
(g.Id, g.ipk, g.uvk, g.iteration)← g
mNE←⟨ g.Id, m⟩ ; adNE←⟨ ad, g.iteration⟩
cNE← NE.Enc(K[g], n, mNE, adNE)
cDS←⟨ adNE, cNE⟩
s← Sign(u, cDS) ; c← (cNE, s)
S← S∪{ (u, cDS, s)}
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)} ; Return c
SimNewHonGroup(g, users)
SimExposeGroup(g)
SimNewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theIUF game for Mat-EtS as per Fig. 4.
SimVerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and vk[u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
(g.Id, g.ipk, g.uvk, g.iteration)← g
(cNE, s)← c ; adNE←⟨ ad, g.iteration⟩
cDS←⟨ adNE, cNE⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vk[u], cDS, s) then return⊥
mNE← NE.Dec(K[g], n, cNE, adNE)
If mNE =⊥then reutrn⊥
⟨G, m⟩← mNE
If G̸= g.Id then return⊥
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c)
If¬user is corrupt[u] then
If (u, cDS, s)̸∈ S then
z← (u, cDS, s)
abort(z)
Return m
SimNewHonUser(u)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
sk[u]← “dummy”
vk[u]← NewHonUser(u)
Return vk[u]
SimExposeUser(u)
require sk [u]̸=⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
sk[u]← ExposeUser(u)
Return sk[u]
SimNewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
require sk [u] = vk[u] =⊥
user is corrupt[u]← true
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
sk[u]← sk ; vk[u]← vk
Fig.28: Top pane: Games G0–G2 for the proof of Theorem 7. The code highlighted in gray was
added by expanding the symmetric signcryption algorithms Mat-EtS.SigEnc, Mat-EtS.VerDec in game
G IUF
Mat-EtS,predsuf-except-group
trivial
(AIUF). The code added for the transitions between games is highlighted inpurple.
Bottom pane:AdversaryASUFCMA for the proof of Theorem 7. Thehighlighted instructions mark the
changes in the code of the simulated gameG0.
48

E.2 Out-group Authenticated Encryption of Mat-EtS (Proof of Theorem 8)
Over view. This proof uses gamesG0 through G2 in Fig. 29 to establish the following claims.
1. AdvOAE
Mat-EtS,predsuf-except-user
trivial
(AOAE) = 2· Pr[G0]− 1
2. Pr[G0] = Pr[G1]
3. Pr[G1] = Pr[G2]
4. 2· Pr[G2]− 1≤ AdvAEAD
NE (AAEAD)
By combining the above, we have
AdvOAE
Mat-EtS,predsuf-except-user
trivial
(AOAE) = 2· Pr[G0]− 1
= 2· Pr[G2]− 1≤ AdvAEAD
NE (AAEAD).
The sequence of hybrids we use for this proof mirrors those used to prove theOAEsecurity ofMLS-StE
in Appendix B, except the ciphertext triviality predicatepredeuf-except-user
trivial is weaker thanpredsuf-except-user
trivial
that was used forMLS-StE. The justifications for the corresponding claims follow analogously from those
for MLS-StE. We do not provide individual descriptions to justify the our claims. Readers interested in
understanding each transition can refer to the relevant explanations in the prior section while consider-
ing Fig. 29.
49

Games G0–G2
b←${0, 1} ; b′←$AU,G,SigEnc,VerDec
OAE ; Return b = b′
SigEnc(g, u, n, m0, m1, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and|m0| =|m1|
require sk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
require (g, n)̸∈ N
If m0̸= m1 then
If group is corrupt[g] then return⊥
chal[g]← true
(g.Id, g.ipk, g.uvk, g.iteration)← g
mNE←⟨ g.Id, m⟩ ; adNE←⟨ ad, g.iteration⟩
cNE← NE.Enc(K[g], n, mNE, adNE)
cDS←⟨ adNE, cNE⟩
s←$ DS.Sig(sk[u], cDS) ; c← (cNE, s)
C← C∪{ ((g, u, n, mb, ad), c)}
N← N∪{ (g, n)}
W [g, u, n, c, ad]← m1 ; Return c
VerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬group is corrupt[g]
require vk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
If∃u′, c′ : W [g, u′, n, c′, ad]̸=⊥ then return⊥ //G[1,∞)
(g.Id, g.ipk, g.uvk, g.iteration)← g
(cNE, s)← c ; adNE←⟨ ad, g.iteration⟩
cDS←⟨ adNE, cNE⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vk[u], cDS, s) then return⊥
mNE← NE.Dec(K[g], n, cNE, adNE)
If mNE =⊥then reutrn⊥
⟨G, m⟩← mNE
If G̸= g.Id then return⊥
z← ((g, u, n, m, ad), c) //G[0,2)
If∃u′, c′ : (( g, u′, n, m, ad), c′)∈ C then return⊥//G[0,2)
If b = 0 then return⊥ else return m
NewHonUser(u)
NewHonGroup(g, users)
ExposeUser(u)
ExposeGroup(g)
NewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
NewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theOAE game for Mat-EtS as per Fig. 4.
AdversaryAG,Enc,Dec
NE
b′←$ASimU,SimG,SimSigEnc,SimVerDec
OAE ; Return b′
SimSigEnc(g, u, n, m0, m1, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and|m0| =|m1|
require sk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
If m0̸= m1 then
If group is corrupt[g] then return⊥
chal[g]← true
(g.Id, g.ipk, g.uvk, g.iteration)← g
mNE←⟨ g.Id, m⟩ ; adNE←⟨ ad, g.iteration⟩
cNE← Enc(g, n, mNE, adNE)
cDS←⟨ adNE, cNE⟩
s←$ DS.Sig(sk[u], cDS) ; c← (cNE, s)
W [g, u, n, c, ad]← m1 ; Return c
SimVerDec(g, u, n, c, ad)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬group is corrupt[g]
require vk [u]̸=⊥ and u∈ members[g]
If∃u′, c′ : W [g, u′, n, c′, ad]̸=⊥ then return⊥
(g.Id, g.ipk, g.uvk, g.iteration)← g
(cNE, s)← c ; adNE←⟨ ad, g.iteration⟩
cDS←⟨ adNE, cNE⟩
If¬DS.Ver(vk[u], cDS, s) then return⊥
mNE← Dec(g, n, cNE, adNE)
If mNE =⊥ then return⊥
abort(1) // mNE̸=⊥ possible only whenb = 1.
SimNewHonUser(u)
SimExposeUser(u)
SimNewCorrUser(u, sk, vk)
// These oracles are identical to the corresponding
// oracles in theOAE game for Mat-EtS as per Fig. 4.
SimNewHonGroup(g, users)
require K [g] =⊥
K[g]← “dummy”
NewHonGroup(g)
members[g]← users
SimExposeGroup(g)
require K [g]̸=⊥ and¬chal[g]
group is corrupt[g]← true
K[g]← ExposeGroup(g)
Return K[g]
SimNewCorrGroup(g, K, users)
require K [g] =⊥
group is corrupt[g]← true
NewCorrGroup(g, K)
K[g]← K ; members[g]← users
Fig.29: Top pane:Games G0–G2 for the proof of Theorem 8. The code highlighted ingray was added by
expanding the symmetric signcryption algorithmsMat-EtS.SigEnc, Mat-EtS.VerDec and the ciphertext-
triviality predicatepredsuf-except-user
trivial in gameG OAE
Mat-EtS,predsuf-except-user
trivial
(AOAE). The code added for the transitions
between games is highlighted inpurple. Bottom pane:AdversaryANE for the proof of Theorem 8. The
highlighted instructions mark the changes in the code of the simulated gameG2.
50