From Onions to Shallots:
Rewarding Tor Relays with TEARS
Rob Jansen1, Andrew Miller 2, Paul Syverson1, and Bryan Ford3
1 U.S. Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, DC
{rob.g.jansen, paul.syverson }@nrl.navy.mil
2 University of Maryland, College Park, MD
amiller@cs.umd.edu
3 Yale University, New Haven, CT
bryan.ford@yale.edu
Abstract. The Tor anonymity network depends on volunteers to oper-
ate relays, and might oﬀer higher bandwidth with lower response laten-
cies if more users could be incentivized to contribute relay bandwidth. We
introduce TEARS, a system rewarding useful service with traﬃc prior-
ity. TEARS audits relays and rewards them with anonymous coins called
Shallots, proportionally to bandwidth contributed. Shallots may be re-
deemed anonymously for PriorityPasses, which in turn may be presented
to relays to request traﬃc priority. The PriorityPass construction enables
relays to prevent double spending locally without leaking information.
Unlike previous incentive proposals, TEARS incorporates transparent
and distributed banking using protocols from distributed digital cryp-
tocurrency systems like Bitcoin. Shallots are publicly-veriﬁable, minimiz-
ing reliance on and trust in banking authorities, making them auditable
while naturally distributing bank functionality and associated overhead.
Further, these distributed banking protocols resist denial-of-service at-
tacks and can recover from catastrophic failures. TEARS may either be
deployed in the existing Tor network or operate alongside it.
1 Introduction
Tor is the most popular deployed anonymous communication system, cur-
rently transferring over 8 GiB/s in aggregate [32]. The bandwidth Tor requires
is donated by altruistic volunteers without any direct return on their invest-
ment. As a result, Tor has primarily grown through the use of social and po-
litical means. However, utilizing volunteer resources without providing incen-
tives to contribute may not be an adequate long-term growth strategy. How
to recruit bandwidth providers while maintaining anonymity is a well studied
problem [1, 7, 15–17, 25, 26]. For several reasons, however, a number of practical
changes to Tor would be required before adopting any incentive-based resource
model; none of these have yet been implemented.
In this paper, we draw upon the distributed Bitcoin architecture to design a
transparent, eﬃcient, and auditable reward system (TEARS) for Tor that

rewards relays for providing useful service to the network. The TEARS archi-
tecture uses existing anonymous Bitcoin protocols to create a type of “altcoin”
token system that Tor may utilize internally to provide a means to obtain prior-
ity service, and to provide an incentive to contribute bandwidth or other useful
services. In TEARS, relays’ bandwidth contributions are audited and earn them
Shallots, anonymous but auditable electronic cash. Relays may redeem their
Shallots for relay-speciﬁc PriorityPasses, which they may “spend” as clients to
request traﬃc priority [10]. Relays may also privately transfer their Shallots to
any user wishing to obtain PriorityPasses. Accountability of Shallots is managed
by a distributed and semi-trusted bank using a transparent, publicly auditable
banking protocol [19].
Previous Tor incentive schemes that propose payments for service [1,7] trade
oﬀ the speed at which double spending may be detected for the amount of
information leaked through withdrawal and deposit transactions. In TEARS,
relay-speciﬁc PriorityPasses allow relays to prevent double spending immediately
and locally, without leaking information. Further, PriorityPasses in TEARS are
non-transferable and become useless after they are presented, reducing over-
head while ensuring that the process of requesting priority does not signiﬁcantly
degrade anonymity—the act of redeeming Shallots for PriorityPasses will be
unlinkable to any later transaction.
To the best of our knowledge, we are the ﬁrst to describe how to distribute
the bank among the Tor directory servers and utilize it in a way that protects
the anonymity of Tor users. The bank in TEARS uses auditable distributed
electronic cash protocols [22, 29] to realize transparent accountability of relay
rewards while minimizing trust in authorities. Previous schemes assume the ex-
istence of a central bank to manage the dissemination of relay rewards [15,16].
In addition to outlining the design of a new Tor incentive system based on a
distributed bank, we oﬀer extended commentary on some system design decisions
common to many Tor incentive systems in order to inform new research. This
paper also discusses the social challenges involved in the deployment of TEARS
and other radical design changes. We hope to illuminate the challenges and
research problems in a way that will provoke useful discussion in the community
while facilitating future research in this area.
Section 2 ﬁrst identiﬁes basic requirements for an incentive design. Section 3
outlines the TEARS architecture, then Section 4 discusses the potential impacts
of design decisions on the existing network and its operators. In Section 5 we
outline previous Tor incentive proposals and their shortcomings. Finally, we
summarize open research problems and conclude in Section 6.
2 Requirements
A Tor incentive system that rewards volunteers for providing useful network
services presents numerous requirements and challenges, both technical and so-
cial. This section identiﬁes the major technical problems we believe such a sys-
tem should solve, keeping in mind that solutions should operate “out-of-band”
to minimize interference with Tor’s low-latency communication design. See Sec-

tion 4 for a discussion of social challenges involved in deploying a Tor incentive
system, and Appendix A for a discussion of useful services.
Preservation of Anonymity The system should not introduce new attacks
on the anonymity oﬀered by Tor. As such, the mechanisms used in our reward
system should not allow users to be linked to their Tor network usage.
Rewards for Providing Service Members that contribute to the system
should be rewarded in proportion to the value of their contribution. Ideally, the
reward should have a backing value, in that a member can use it to achieve a
desirable system service or attribute.
Proofs of Useful Service A system that rewards members for serving the
network should be able to prove that those services were in fact rendered. Ideally,
the proofs of service would be publicly veriﬁable so that any member of the
distributed network could validate the utility provided by any other member.
Publicly Auditable Accounting The system should provide a way to ac-
count for the rewards obtained by each member, and provide facilities for the
exchange of rewards. Double spending of rewards should be prevented or de-
tected and handled. Ideally, the process of accounting for rewards should be
publicly veriﬁable in order to minimize trust in centralized entities.
Deployability The system should integrate well with the existing Tor network
in order to maximize the utility provided to existing users and leverage the
existing infrastructure and community. Ideally, the system components will be
modular so they may be deployed incrementally.
3 Architecture
We now discuss how we realize a practical system for rewarding Tor relays.
3.1 TEARS Overview
TEARS embodies incentives in tokens called Shallots. To obtain Shallots, relays
simply forward traﬃc as usual: their bandwidth contributions are audited and
used to reward them with Shallots. Users may redeem Shallots for PriorityPasses,
which they may present to Tor relays for temporary traﬃc priority. Relays will
support a new circuit scheduler that will enable them to prioritize PriorityPass
traﬃc over normal traﬃc. Once redeemed, PriorityPasses become useless.
As in Bitcoin, TEARS users may create accounts simply by generating pub-
lic/private keypairs. Shallots may be transferred between these accounts, en-
abling third party markets to form; relays provide the initial supply of Shallots,
and can trade them with regular users whodemand prioritized Tor service. Addi-
tional Shallots may also be minted and distributed to users for free, according to
some prescribed (and publicly known) policy. (See Section 4.2 for more informa-
tion about the monetary policy and how to “bootstrap” the system.) Allowing
regular users and not just relays to obtain Shallots (and therefore PriorityPasses)
helps obfuscate the source of prioritized traﬃc, a key goal also motivating other
recent incentive designs [15, 16]. Figure 1 illustrates the TEARS architecture.
We next discuss the design of Shallots and PriorityPasses in more detail.

Fig. 1. An overview of our TEARS system. (a) A distributed processaudits Tor relays’
bandwidth services and informs the bank, who then mints new Shallots for each relay
and deposits it on their behalf. (b) Tor clients redeem Shallots for anonymous and
unlinkable PriorityPasses at the bank through an anonymous Tor tunnel. (c) Tor clients
present PriorityPasses for traﬃc priority at Tor relays, after which the PriorityPasses
become useless. (d) Shallots can also be transferred from one user to another, as often
as desired. Shallots may be given out for free via a “faucet”, and an external market
may form around the exchange of Shallots for currency such as U.S. Dollars, Bitcoin,
or other credentials deemed valuable by Tor users.
3.2 Accountable Banking with Shallots
Although the cash tokens in TEARS are initially minted and disbursed to users
who contribute bandwidth, and are eventually redeemed as PriorityPasses in
order to request enhanced service, the cash can be transferred among users any
number of times in between. Users transfer tokens by communicating with a
bank. We envision that the bank system will be operated by (a quorum of)
semi-trusted servers, in particular the existing Tor directory servers. Although
we refer to these servers as semi-trusted, we nonetheless design the system to
minimize reliance on them. The key design choices are enumerated below:
Unconditional Privacy The tokens should be e-cash. In particular, even if all
the bank servers are compromised, users’ transactions should still be unlinkable
and private. This suggests that users should communicate with the bank system
only through an anonymizing relay such as Tor itself.
Auditability The bank servers should be unable to violate the basic proper-
ties of a token currency—such as redeeming “counterfeit” tokens or transmitting

“defective” tokens to honest users—without getting caught. This means we must
use a publicly veriﬁable (or auditable) e-cash protocol [22,29]. These schemes uti-
lize non-interactive zero-knowledge proof systems. The bank maintains a public
set of coins (public keys), and a user spends a coin (without revealing which)
by proving possession of the private key for some coin not yet spent. In these
schemes, it is safe to publish all messages between user and bank. In fact, any in-
valid messages from a bank or user are immediately detectable by anyone reading
the transcript, without private information, even if users and banks collude.
We have mentioned that Shallots are initially minted in receipt of proofs of
useful bandwidth contribution; other rules for minting Shallots may be supported
as well, such as granting an additional fraction of each minted token to the
administrators of the Tor Project. Such possibilities are discussed in more detail
in Section 4. In all cases, however, an invariant to maintain is that the total
quantity of currency in the system at any time is a matter of public record.
Availability Any majority of correctly-functioning servers should be suﬃcient
for banking service to continue uninterrupted, despite Byzantine failures of the
others; additionally, no user that is able to connect to a correct server should be
denied service. Due to the use of an auditable e-cash protocol as described above,
the role of the bank is essentially reduced to receiving transactions from users
and assigning to them a sequential ordering. Any eﬃcient variation of Byzantine
Paxos [19] can be used so that the correctly-functioning servers arrive at an
agreement about the next batch of valid transactions to include; after reaching
agreement, the majority of servers then produce a threshold signature [5,27] over
these transactions and a sequence number.
Transparency via Gossip or Broadcast As described above, an auditable e-
cash protocol is chosen so that every transaction can safely be published and any
misbehavior detected. However, this is only valuable if members of the public
are indeed watching and dutifully inspecting the published data. Users and other
interested parties should gossip about any messages received from bank servers,
similar to Certiﬁcate Transparency[20]. In order to detect a double-spend or oth-
erwise invalid transactions, some member of the gossip network must maintain
a copy of the set of outstanding (i.e., minted but not-yet-redeemed) Shallots.
Alternatively, if a public broadcast channel is available, then interactions
with the bank may simply be conducted over this broadcast channel. The Bitcoin
blockchain is arguably a candidate for this, since arbitrary data may be included
in Bitcoin transactions. This provides the further advantage that even a majority
of the bank servers would be unable to selectively refuse service to clients; on
the other hand, Bitcoin transactions generally require fees.
Recovery from Catastrophe We have described above a publicly-auditable
e-cash system that resists any misbehavior by a minority of the bank servers,
and furthermore guarantees that misbehavior by even a majority of the servers
is at least detectable. Suppose such misbehavior occurs—for example, that all of
the bank servers collude to print their own counterfeit Shallots and then to sell
them in external markets—and that the misbehavior is detected as intended.

What should become of the system? Even in this catastrophic scenario, the
system (including most Shallots) could be largely salvaged, as long as new (and,
hopefully, more trustworthy) bank servers can be appointed. Since the history
of Shallot transactions is public knowledge, the new bank can simply resume
processing from a “fork” before the counterfeit event occurred.
Redeeming Shallots for PriorityPasses In our e-cash description above, we
said that users “spend” Shallots by proving they possess a private key and that it
has not yet been spent. The transaction published by the user must also indicate
how she wishes the Shallots to be spent; two options are available. First, if a
user wishes to transfer the Shallots to another user, then the transaction should
contain a commitment to the recipient’s public key. The second option is to re-
deem Shallots for relay-speciﬁc PriorityPasses. This similarly involves providing
a commitment to the relay’s public key. However, the two transaction types are
distinguishable, and, unlike Shallots, PriorityPasses cannot be transferred again.
Thus the total quantity of Shallots in the system consists of the total quantity
minted minus the total quantity converted to PriorityPasses.
3.3 Using PriorityPasses
Once a user has obtained a PriorityPass, she can present it to the intended
relay by opening the commitment in a single private message (which, as in
BRAIDS [15], may be contained within an onion-wrapped message). Thus, with-
out needing to interact with the bank, the relay can conﬁrm the PriorityPass is
dedicated to itself and has not previously been presented.
To be suitable for use in Tor, PriorityPasses must be unlinkable and pri-
vate so that clients’ payments to relays do not deanonymize their traﬃc. A
major problem with most electronic cash in the context of Tor is that it must
be deposited after being spent in order to realize payment and detect double
spending: the timing of the withdraw and deposit operations leaks information
about the source of Tor traﬃc, even if the cash itself is unlinkable (see Ap-
pendix B for more details). Therefore, no bank communication should occur
after relays receive PriorityPasses. To achieve this, PriorityPasses are locally
veriﬁable, have non-transferable value (are useless after they are spent),
and are bound to a relay identity : because PriorityPasses are relay-speciﬁc,
each relay can immediately and locally prevent double spending . Finally, Prior-
ityPasses are non-transferable: the relay identity bound to the PriorityPass
may not be altered and PriorityPasses should not be transferred among users.
While the cryptographic construction of PriorityPasses is out of scope for
this paper, they may be produced using blind signatures so that the bank will
not be able to determine the relay identity bound to each PriorityPass.
3.4 Prioritizing Traﬃc and Auditing Bandwidth
To provide service enhancements after receiving PriorityPasses, relays will sup-
port a new circuit scheduler based on Proportionally Diﬀerentiated Services [9,
10] that is capable of proportionally prioritizing traﬃc belonging to diﬀerent pay-
ment classes. This approach was also used in both BRAIDS [15] and LIRA [16],

and details about how this type of scheduler would replace Tor’s existing circuit
scheduler was outlined by Jansen [13]. We provide a summary in Appendix C.
TEARS also relies on a secure method for auditing relays’ bandwidth con-
tributions. While some work has been done in this area [11, 30, 31], we do not
believe any existing design to be suitable for TEARS. While designing a band-
width auditing system is out of scope for this paper, methods for accounting
for bandwidth in general, as well as the limitations of existing measurement
techniques, are discussed in Appendix D.
4 Discussion and Open Problems
Section 2 noted some of the technical requirements for a viable Tor incentive
scheme, but there are deployment and social challenges as well. We outline these
here, and defer a more extended discussion to Appendix E.
4.1 Incentives to Participate
Why should relays follow the protocol and actually give clients priority in ex-
change for PriorityPasses?
We’ve mentioned earlier that once PriorityPasses are spent, they are there-
after nontransferable and out of circulation, and therefore useless. It is, however,
possible for a relay to prove to the world (i.e., in a publicly veriﬁable way) how
many unique PriorityPasses it has received and processed. Relays may be inter-
ested in publishing such information for the sake of informal bragging rights, even
absent any formal recognition or reward; alternatively, relays that demonstrate
receipt of PriorityPasses might be entitled to additional minted Shallots. In ei-
ther case, it’s important that relays do not immediately publish PriorityPasses
they receive, since this would enable timing analysis and threaten the anonymity
of users. At most, relays should publish the PriorityPasses they receive period-
ically (for example, once a month). If receipt of PriorityPasses entitle the relay
to additional Shallot rewards, this process should also be scheduled periodically
to avoid creating any perverse incentive for relays to compromise user privacy.
4.2 Market Economics
TEARS allows quantities of the currency to be transferred from one user to
another; however, no explicit market-making mechanism is provided. We believe
that as long as the Shallots are transferable, then third-party services will arise
to satisfy any demand for trading Shallots for other currencies like U.S. dollars
and Bitcoin. This has been the case with Bitcoin, for example, although the
ecosystem of currency exchanges serving the Bitcoin community has involved a
high degree of failure and fraud [24]. We leave the issue of establishing more
trustworthy digital currency exchanges as an open problem.
As previously mentioned, Shallots are initially minted and disbursed to relays
as a reward for contributing bandwidth. While this is one way for new Shallots to
enter the system, other supplementary minting policies are possible as well. For
example, the administrators of the Tor Project may be designated to receive a
fraction of each minted Shallot (i.e., as a form of tax), receive a small fraction of
a Shallot whenever transferring Shallots among users (i.e., as a transaction fee),

or even to print new currency at their discretion. An expiry might be assigned
to each minted Shallot, such that it must be spent within some time interval or
else is removed. These decisions constitute the monetary policy of TEARS, and
we leave choosing appropriate parameters as part of deployment strategy. 4
Allowing the administrators of the non-proﬁt steering organization to receive
additional currency has several beneﬁts; in particular, the Tor project might
operate a “faucet” 5 that gives small amounts of Shallots to individual users
who might not have money or access to currency exchanges. Due to the bank
system’s public auditability, even if administrators can mint new currency at
their discretion, the total amount minted would be publicly visible.
The ability for users (other than relays) to obtain Shallots via the faucet
mechanism as well as third-party markets is important as it provides a non-trivial
amount of added security: without these mechanisms, only service providers
would be able to accumulate Shallots and would therefore be more easily identi-
ﬁed as a potential source of traﬃc on circuits where PriorityPasses are presented
for priority. However, we note that we want the system to be accessible to as
many users as possible, and so Shallots and PriorityPasses should always be an
optional part of the system and should never be required to receive basic service.
4.3 Community Eﬀects
Adding explicit incentive mechanisms to a system like Tor that relies on vol-
untary behavior can have perverse eﬀects. This has been widely observed, and
quoted here from Benkler [2]:
Compare the level of use and success of pay-per-cycle distributed
computing sites like Gomez Performance Networks or Capacity Cali-
bration Networks, as compared to the socially engaged platforms like
SETI@Home or Folding@Home. It is just too simplistic to think that if
you add money, the really good participants will come and do the work
as well as, or better than, the parallel social processes. . . . Adding money
alters the overall relationship. It makes some people ‘professionals,’ and
renders other participants, ‘suckers.’ It is not impossible to mix paid and
unpaid participants, as we see in free and open source software and even
to a very limited extent in Wikipedia. It is just hard, and requires a
cultural form that is deﬁnitely not ‘now at long last we can tell who’s
worth something and pay them, while everyone else is just worthless.’
If a new incentive scheme is incorporated into Tor, there is a danger of such
a crowding out of intrinsically motivated volunteers, thus reducing rather than
4 Although Bitcoin, the ﬁrst and currently most popular cryptocurrency, mints new
coins only as a reward for network participation (and at a ﬁxed rate, which is sched-
uled to gradually diminish over hundreds of years), other competing “altcoins” such
as Freicoin ( http://freico.in/) implement alternate monetary policies such as
demurrage and allocating a portion of newly minted coins to a designated adminis-
trator.
5 See https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Bitcoin_faucet for a list of faucets that oﬀer
small quantities of Bitcoin for free to users.

increasing network size, diversity, and capacity. When faced with challenges to
users, the network, or their relays, intrinsically motivated operators are more
likely to resist on principle than someone for whom this is a mere economi-
cally rational question. However, we have not proposed straightforwardly liquid
compensation: contribution to Tor simply allows an operator to have prioritized
traﬃc in relay queues, an enhanced version of the basic service you would already
get for free (much like the members entrance at a zoo or museum).
4.4 Recommended Deployment
A deployment strategy for radical Tor design changes is challenging, especially
for the TEARS system because of the many problems and risks outline above.
Both for our own research questions and for other potential innovations, we
believe it would be useful for Tor to oﬀer experimental releases. Appendix E.2
presents our rationale for this recommendation.
Experimental releases would typically introduce features that already have
been vetted through academic publication, have done the necessary network
experimentation to satisfy the community, and might typically have associated
Tor proposals. They should also have been through some degree of scrutiny from
the Tor developers. Nonetheless, these should clearly be labeled as experimental,
similar to the labeling of alpha releases. Participating relays should be capable
of handling both experimental traﬃc and production Tor network traﬃc, and
we assume that Tor should always support both clients and relays that choose
to ignore any feature in any experimental release.
To deploy TEARS using an experimental release and network, we expect that
alternative consensus ﬁles would be created while new infrastructure may be re-
quired to provide an operational incentive network (e.g., new directory servers
that also run the TEARS bank). Users that would like to try out TEARS features
could use the new experimental consensus to choose relays supporting TEARS
as part of the experimental release; other users would ignore the experimental
release and continue using Tor as usual. We believe this deployment path will
help reduce risk to the existing production network while still providing useful
information about the potential deployment of new designs. We can also deploy
all the experimental mechanisms and software for purposes of testing and bug
ﬁxing but initially turn the faucet mentioned in Section 4.2 on high. The inﬂa-
tionary eﬀect will be to eliminate any value from prioritization since so much
traﬃc will be eligible for PriorityPasses that prioritization will not provide sig-
niﬁcant performance beneﬁt. Once TEARS has been deployed and tested it will
then be possible to turn down the faucet at whatever rate and to whatever level
is desired to evaluate the eﬀect on prioritization and prioritization-motivated
contribution to the network. In this way we can separate the deployment and
testing of the experimental software from the experimentation with incentives.
5 Related Work
Tor-speciﬁc incentives systems have been studied many times before, but
none of them discuss how to use a decentralized transaction processing service
to handle the management of accounts.

Ngan et al. propose that the fastest 7/8 of relays get ﬂagged as gold star
relays in the consensus, and that gold star relays prioritize the traﬃc that is
initiated at other gold star relays [26]. Similarly, Tortoise applies a universal
rate limit to all clients, but exempts those that run relays marked with the fast
and stable consensus ﬂags [25]. Both of these approaches severely harm the
anonymity of relays using Tor’s client functionality: the set of potential initiators
for traﬃc receiving priority (or not being throttled) can be narrowed from the
full set of clients to the set of relays with the correct ﬂags.
Monetary payments are oﬀered in exchange for routing services in PAR [1]
and XPAY [7], where digital coins are inserted into the routing protocol. Clients
obtain coins from a centralized bank, and relays must send coins back to the
bank soon after receiving them in order to detect double spending. The timing
of the withdrawal by the client and the deposit by the relay may leak information
about the client’s traﬃc. Coins may be held by the relay longer to disrupt this
timing information, but it also reduces the speed at which double spending can
be detected.
The double spending problem was eliminated in BRAIDS [15] with the intro-
duction of relay-speciﬁc tickets: relays themselves are responsible for verifying
that their tickets have not been previously spent without contacting the cen-
tralized bank. BRAIDS does not require clients to provide a ticket in order to
use the system, and freely distributes a small amount of tickets to all users.
Although this increases the diﬃculty in distinguishing clients from relays based
on their payments, relays also accumulate tickets for providing service and will
therefore still be able to receive traﬃc priority more often than clients. Finally,
BRAIDS is somewhat ineﬃcient in that it depends on a central bank that must
continuously exchange tickets for all users.
The eﬃciency of a central bank was improved in LIRA [16], where a crypto-
graphic lottery was used to decide when clients could receive priority. In LIRA,
clients simply guess a random number and receive priority with tunable prob-
ability. The central bank only has to manage accounts for relays, who receive
the ability to obtain guaranteed winners to the lottery in exchange for providing
service. Unfortunately, probabilistic guessing reduces ﬂexibility for clients want-
ing to receive continuous priority over time, and creates a potential for cheating
the system because it enables clients to continuously create circuits until a cor-
rect guess is found. Finally, LIRA relies on both a central bank and a secure
bandwidth measurement system to inform the bank about the number of guar-
anteed winners each relay is allowed to obtain; as we will discuss, measuring
relay bandwidth securely is an open research problem.
Johnson et al. argue that Tor should allow its services to be purchased [17]
to take advantage of a large pool of new users that already pay for tools that
circumvent censorship without the strong privacy guarantees that Tor oﬀers.
This new pool of clients could help fund new service providers and could increase
Tor’s anonymity by diversifying its traﬃc sources.

6 Conclusions and Future Work
In this paper, we presented the design of the ﬁrst Tor incentive system that
is based on a distributed bank with fully transparent and auditable protocols for
accountability. We believe our system minimizes the trust placed in the banking
authorities while reducing or eliminating problems related to the double spending
of tokens, the information leaked by transactions, and the processing limitations
of a central bank.
Future Work There are several open problems that future work should con-
sider. TEARS relies on a bandwidth auditing service to securely measurement
relays’ contributions. We believe that more work is needed to determine the ex-
tent to which previous bandwidth measurement proposals [30,31] may help fulﬁll
our requirement. Another challenging problem is how to prove that a relay was
honest in giving priority when presented with a PriorityPass, and how to prove
the relay did not change the scheduling parameters set by the network.
More work is needed before TEARS can be deployed. A system analysis
should be done to ensure TEARS provides the properties we claimed it does,
and an eﬃciency analysis should be done to determine the scalability as both
the number of relays and the number of banking authorities increases. In addi-
tion, experiments with TEARS should be done using tools like Shadow [14] to
determine how performance changes as the number of PriorityPasses that are
available to users varies. Finally, usability and behavioral analyses would be ex-
tremely useful in helping to understand how an incentive system would aﬀect
the altruism of the existing community of volunteers.
Acknowledgments We thank Roger Dingledine, Mathew Green, Virgil Grif-
ﬁth, and Aaron Johnson for useful discussions regarding this work. We thank
the TorProject for providing the Tor logo graphics used in Figure 1 under a
Creative Commons attribution license, 6 and acknowledge that they in no way
endorse Figure 1 speciﬁcally or the contents of this paper generally. This work
was supported by the Oﬃce of Naval Research. This material is based upon work
supported by the Defense Advanced Research Agency (DARPA) and SPAWAR
Systems Center Paciﬁc, Contract No. N66001-11-C-4018.
References
1. Androulaki, E., Raykova, M., Srivatsan, S., Stavrou, A., Bellovin, S.M.: PAR:
Payment for anonymous routing. In: Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium
(PETS) (2008)
2. Benkler, Y.: Benkler on Calacanis’s wallet. http://www.roughtype.com/?p=479
(July 28 2006)
3. Biryukov, A., Pustogarov, I., Weinmann, R.: Trawling for Tor hidden services: De-
tection, measurement, deanonymization. In: Symposium on Security and Privacy
(SP) (2013)
4. Blake, S., Black, D., Carlson, M., Davies, E., Wang, Z., Weiss, W.: An Architecture
for Diﬀerentiated Services. RFC 2475 (1998)
6 http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/us/

5. Boldyreva, A.: Threshold signatures, multisignatures and blind signatures based on
the gap-diﬃe-hellman-group signature scheme. In: Public key cryptography (PKC)
(2002)
6. Chaabane, A., Manils, P., Kaafar, M.: Digging into anonymous traﬃc: A deep
analysis of the tor anonymizing network. In: Conference on Network and System
Security (NSS) (2010)
7. Chen, Y., Sion, R., Carbunar, B.: XPay: Practical anonymous payments for Tor
routing and other networked services. In: Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic
Society (WPES) (2009)
8. Danezis, G., Syverson, P.: Bridging and ﬁngerprinting: Epistemic attacks on route
selection. In: Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium (PETS) (2008)
9. Dovrolis, C., Ramanathan, P.: A case for relative diﬀerentiated services and the
proportional diﬀerentiation model. Network 13(5), 26–34 (1999)
10. Dovrolis, C., Stiliadis, D., Ramanathan, P.: Proportional diﬀerentiated services:
Delay diﬀerentiation and packet scheduling. Transactions on Networking 10(1),
12–26 (2002)
11. Ghosh, M., Richardson, M., Ford, B., Jansen, R.: A TorPath to TorCoin: Proof-
of-bandwidth altcoins for compensating relays. In: Workshop on Hot Topics in
Privacy Enhancing Technologies (HotPETs) (2014)
12. Jakobsson, M.: Ripping coins for a fair exchange. In: Conference on the Theory
and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques (EUROCRYPT) (1995)
13. Jansen, R.: Privacy Preserving Performance Enhancements for Anonymous Com-
munication Systems. University of Minnesota PhD Thesis. (October 2012)
14. Jansen, R., Hopper, N.: Shadow: Running Tor in a box for accurate and eﬃcient ex-
perimentation. In: Network and Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS)
(2012)
15. Jansen, R., Hopper, N., Kim, Y.: Recruiting new Tor relays with BRAIDS. In:
Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS) (2010)
16. Jansen, R., Johnson, A., Syverson, P.: LIRA: Lightweight Incentivized Routing
for Anonymity. In: Network and Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS)
(2013)
17. Johnson, A., Jansen, R., Syverson, P.: Onions for sale: Putting privacy on the
market. In: Financial Cryptography and Data Security Conference (FC) (2013)
18. Johnson, A., Wacek, C., Jansen, R., Sherr, M., Syverson, P.: Users get routed:
Traﬃc correlation on tor by realistic adversaries. In: Conference on Computer and
Communications Security (CCS) (2013)
19. Lamport, L.: Fast Paxos. Distributed Computing 19(2), 79–103 (2006)
20. Laurie, B., Langley, A., Kasper, E.: Certiﬁcate transparency. Network Working
Group Internet-Draft, v12, work in progress. http://tools. ietf. org/html/draft-
laurie-pki-sunlight-12 (2013)
21. McCoy, D., Bauer, K., Grunwald, D., Kohno, T., Sicker, D.: Shining light in dark
places: Understanding the Tor network. In: Privacy Enhancing Technologies Sym-
posium (PETS) (2008)
22. Miers, I., Garman, C., Green, M., Rubin, A.D.: Zerocoin: Anonymous distributed
e-cash from bitcoin. In: Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) (2013)
23. Miller, A., Juels, A., Shi, E., Parno, B., Katz, J.: Permacoin: Repurposing bitcoin
work for long-term data preservation. In: Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP)
(2014)
24. Moore, T., Christin, N.: Beware the middleman: Empirical analysis of bitcoin-
exchange risk. In: Financial Cryptography and Data Security Conference (FC)
(2013)

25. Moore, W.B., Wacek, C., Sherr, M.: Exploring the potential beneﬁts of expanded
rate limiting in tor: Slow and steady wins the race with tortoise. In: Annual Com-
puter Security Applications Conference (ACSAC) (2011)
26. Ngan, T.W.J., Dingledine, R., Wallach, D.S.: Building incentives into Tor. In:
Financial Cryptography and Data Security Conference (FC) (2010)
27. Pedersen, T.P.: A threshold cryptosystem without a trusted party. In: Advances
in Cryptology (EUROCRYPT) (1991)
28. Reiter, M., Wang, X., Wright, M.: Building reliable mix networks with fair ex-
change. In: Conference on Applied Cryptography and Network Security (ACNS)
(2005)
29. Sander, T., Ta-Shma, A.: Auditable, anonymous electronic cash. In: Advances in
Cryptology (CRYPTO) (1999)
30. Snader, R., Borisov, N.: Eigenspeed: secure peer-to-peer bandwidth evaluation. In:
International Workshop on Peer-To-Peer Systems (IPTPS) (2009)
31. Snader, R., Borisov, N.: Improving security and performance in the tor network
through tunable path selection. Transactions on Dependable and Secure Comput-
ing 8(5), 728–741 (2011)
32. Tor Network Metrics. https://metrics.torproject.org/network.html
33. Tor Proposals. https://gitweb.torproject.org/torspec.git/tree/HEAD:
/proposals
Appendices
A Useful Service in Tor
The main goal of a Tor incentive system is to convince users that they should
contribute useful services to the network by providing rewards. A Tor service may
include bridge, guard, middle, and exit relays, directory authorities and mirrors,
and hidden service directories. While simply running these services may provide
some beneﬁt to the network, composing any of the following properties will
generally increase utility:
– High bandwidth: more bandwidth to better support Tor’s load.
– Location diversity: expanding Tor’s reach to geographic regions containing
few or no relays will help users route around untrusted parts of the Internet.
– Stable: longer uptimes improves network stability.
– Exit policies : liberal exit policies will increase relay utility.
– Metrics: share relay or other statistics about network operation.
– Newer Tor versions or support for experimental features.
There is no direct existing means to encourage useful service such as location-
diverse or high bandwidth relays. As a result, existing Tor relays naturally grav-
itate towards familiar, cheap, and Tor friendly ISPs, and many of them provide
such a low level of bandwidth that their relays are rarely chosen for client cir-
cuits. An incentive design could diﬀerentially reward contributions based on their
usefulness to the network. While this may add complexity to the process for ver-
ifying contributions, it would allow Tor to get the most out of its contributors.
An incentive design could incorporate a diversity weight to provide rewards
for relays based on location thus improving general security as well as perfor-
mance of the Tor network. We could also create a super-linear reward scale to

encourage higher bandwidth capacity relays, or a sub-linear scale to encourage
greater uniformity of relay bandwidth. Although it is clear that useful service
is certainly not limited to relay bandwidth, we focus on it in this paper as it is
currently the most demanded Tor resource.
B Payments Leak Information
To request a service or service enhancement, clients in a Tor incentive system
generally need to provide some kind of bank-authorized payment to the relays.
These payments sometimes use electronic cash schemes, but are usually con-
structed with blind signatures and zero-knowledge protocols. For the purposes
of this section, we will refer to these digital certiﬁcates more generally as certs.
Certs provide unlinkability between when they are withdrawn from the bank
and spent at a merchant, making their use in a system of accounting an at-
tractive option for an anonymity network like Tor. Here we discuss how using
certs to request enhanced service may leak information in Tor. Further, if re-
lays’ contributions are accounted for via an independent process (as discussed
in Appendix D), then the question of “ Should the certs themselves have value to
the relay? ” can be thought about by considering the roughly analogous notion
of receiving “tips” in addition to “salary”. We will also brieﬂy speculate on how
this may aﬀect relay behavior.
B.1 Certs that Retain Value After Transfer
With generic certs that have transferable value, the merchant must generally
deposit each cert immediately in order to detect double spending. Because the
timing of the withdraw and associated deposit can leak information about a
client’s usage activity to the bank, the client should add some “mixing time”
before spending it to improve unlinkability at the cost of ﬂexibility.
Relay-speciﬁc certs help mitigate this problem to some extent, because the
relays are able to prevent double spending locally. However, if these certs retain
value that can be transferred to another relay, then the receiving relay will still
need to deposit certs it receives via transfers. The receiving relay should add
some amount of “mixing time” before depositing transferred certs, to obfuscate
from the bank the withdraw operation associated with each deposited cert. Some
ﬂexibility in usage is lost because the certs are good only at a single relay unless
they are transferred, and they must be mixed again before each transfer.
To summarize, with general certs:
– clients may use them at any relay;
– relays should deposit them immediately to detect double spending;
– clients should delay usage after withdrawal to reduce linkability;
With relay-speciﬁc certs:
– clients withdraw them from the bank for speciﬁc relays (the chosen relay is
blinded to the bank);
– clients may spend them immediately;
– relays may prevent double spending locally;
– relays should delay deposit after receipt to reduce linkability;

– long delays are imposed if clients exchange unspent certs (e.g., because the
relay bound to the original cert went oﬄine).
The “mixing” happens on the client end with generic certs, and the relay
end with relay-speciﬁc certs. These approaches may be complimentary, such
that combining them would improve ﬂexibility: clients keep a stash of general
certs usable anywhere in the long term, and supplement that with relay-speciﬁc
certs usable at a single relay in the short term.
If we allow clients to “tip” relays – by directly transferring value to relays
above and beyond the system’s normal reward mechanism based on measured
bandwidth – then we create an incentive for relays to provide service diﬀerenti-
ation (see Appendix C). If this incentive exists, a selﬁsh relay will always prefer
to forward “paid” traﬃc over “unpaid” traﬃc. Relays will try to make priority
traﬃc as attractive to clients as possible, and thus prefer scheduling parameters
that result in bigger performance boosts. With enough “tipping” clients, the
“non-tipping” clients would eventually stop using relays that provide horrible
service to them. Of course this will always be true to some extent due to the
functionality of the scheduler, but relays would have a reason to adjust their
scheduler in a way that forces the situation earlier.
B.2 Certs that are Valueless After Transfer
With relay-speciﬁc certs that have no transferable value, the relay can simply
detect double spending locally without ever depositing anything back to the
bank, thereby addressing the linkability problem. However, some ﬂexibility is
lost in this design because the certs are bound to speciﬁc relays and cannot be
transferred to other relays. Further, relays would need to earn rewards via a
separate channel (such as a collective bandwidth measurement mechanism as
proposed in this paper).
If we do not allow “tips” or re-use of certs by the relays, then we expect
the relays to remain agnostic about the operation of the scheduler. They will
be happy as long as they are able to provide bandwidth, because that is how
they receive rewards. This will allow Tor to better control the scheduling pa-
rameters in a way that makes service for “non-tipping” clients bearable. The
relays have an incentive to follow the protocol, because otherwise clients may
be able to detect malicious behavior, and might even form a reputation system
to gossip opinions about relays exhibiting bad or suspiciously deviant behavior.
While proving that relays didn’t change their scheduling parameters would be
challenging, at least they don’t have a direct incentive to be dishonest – provided
the collective bandwidth measurement mechanism is secure and relays cannot
game it to collect rewards disproportionate to the utility they oﬀer.
Given the discussion in this section, we believe the beneﬁts of relay-speciﬁc
certs without transferable value outweigh the loss in ﬂexibility, and therefore
designed PriorityPasses accordingly.
C Rewards for Providing Service
Relays will receive rewards for their useful contribution to the network. We
believe a desirable reward for providing service is preferential treatment of traﬃc

by bandwidth providers. We intend that rewards be used to enhance performance
by diﬀerentiating the traﬃc priority of rewarded ﬂows from unrewarded ﬂows.
Note, however, that this approach does not guarantee service diﬀerentiation,
because the ability to provide performance enhancements depends on network
dynamics such as relay capacities and client load distribution.
C.1 Diﬀerentiated Services
The diﬀerentiated services architecture [4] can be used to improve the control
over traﬃc priority in Tor, as previously outlined by Jansen [13]. More speciﬁ-
cally, the proportional diﬀerentiation model [9] allows for predictable (i.e., con-
sistent as load increases) and controllable (i.e., adjustable diﬀerentiation) per-
formance between N traﬃc classes. The model allows for the conﬁguration of a
diﬀerentiation parameterpi for each classi, and enforces the proportional prior-
ity of a traﬃc quality metricq between all pairs of classesi andj for measurement
timescale σ as:
∀i∈ [N],∀j∈ [N] : qi (t,t +σ)
qj (t,t +σ) = pi
pj
(1)
where p1 < ... < pN and pi/pj deﬁnes the quality proportion between classes i
and j. The model is well deﬁned when there is enough traﬃc in each class to
allow a work-conserving scheduler to meet the desired proportions.
Dovrolis et al. design a scheduler under the proportional diﬀerentiation model
using a queuing delay metric [10], which in our case corresponds to Tor cell
waiting times. For class i, the quality metric qi combines the queuing delay
Di(t) of the longest waiting cell with the long-term average delay δi(t) of all
previously scheduled cells at time t:
qi(t) =Di(t)·f +δi(t)· (1−f) (2)
where f is an adjustable fraction that tunes the scheduler’s ability to react to
short term spikes in delay. When a scheduling decision is to be made at timet, the
longest waiting cell from the class with the maximum priority P (t) = q(t)/p(t)
is chosen and scheduled.
C.2 DiﬀServ Parameters
Any number of classes can be conﬁgured as well as the prices and proportions
between them. We suggest three service classes: basic (free), standard, and pre-
mium. Clients can select their priority class by supplying the correct number of
PriorityPasses independently to each relay in their circuit, and each PriorityPass
can provide the selected priority for a conﬁgurable amount of data. Although
heuristic measurements could suﬃce, how to prove that a presented PriorityPass
actually resulted in a service enhancement reward is an open research problem.
C.3 Distinguishing Traﬃc by Priority
We acknowledge that traﬃc priority will fundamentally allow users that are
categorized into diﬀerent service classes to be somewhat distinguishable from one
another, which may result in a partitioning of Tor’s anonymity set. However, as
Johnson et al. argue [17], users with lower security requirements may be willing

to trade oﬀ reduced security for improved ﬂexibility and performance: users
already use Tor for downloading large ﬁles even though their activities look very
diﬀerent than most [6,21]. Further, a faster network that is more ﬂexible (clients
may specify their desired performance level) may attract a signiﬁcant number of
new users and result in a net increase in anonymity. We note that it is important
to make clear to users the risks and trade-oﬀs they assume by participating in
such a network.
D Bandwidth Accounting
A Tor incentive system should provide a means to prove that the service was
actually rendered, i.e., to account for relay bandwidth contributions in a way
that is accurate for all relay positions and in both upstream and downstream
directions, is secure against cheating, and cannot link clients to the relays they
choose, the circuits they use, or the traﬃc they send.
In this section, we will use the generic term bwtoken to represent band-
width contribution levels: obtaining bwtokens should be roughly correlated with
contributing bandwidth. There are at least two methods for using bwtokens to
account for bandwidth:
1. relays receive bwtokens directly from clients in exchange for utilizing their
bandwidth resources to forward traﬃc; and
2. relays receive bwtokens indirectly through a distributed process that decides
the number of bwtokens each relay should receive, e.g., based on bandwidth
measurement audits.
D.1 Direct Accounting
In order to use the ﬁrst method above to accurately account for all contributed
bandwidth, clients must be able to continuously send bwtokens in exchange for
service in a way that does not break client anonymity and cannot be exploited by
service providers to earn more bwtokens than they deserve. Also, relays should
be able to use bwtokens to prove their contributions to other system members.
The BRAIDS incentive scheme [15] shows how to use coin ripping [12] and fair
exchange [28] to ensure that relays don’t receive “tickets” unless they actually
perform the forwarding service. However, BRAIDS suﬀers from somewhat high
performance costs because it distributes tickets to every client in the system
(though tickets are not required to receive service). If all clients were required to
use tickets so that we could accurately account for relay bandwidth, the overhead
would also increase.
In the TorPath scheme [11], participating clients work with the three relays
on a Tor circuit to mint coins in proportion to the useful end-to-end band-
width they observe. To prevent clients from choosing colluding relays to mint
coins dishonestly, TorPath uses veriﬁable shuﬄes to assign relays to clients using
secret but publicly veriﬁable randomness. This approach measures bandwidth
end-to-end and limits the system’s vulnerability to unfair or malicious ticket
distribution, at the cost of limiting clients’ freedom in choosing relays.

We would like clients to receive enhanced service whether or not they are re-
quired to directly handle bwtokens for bandwidth accounting purposes. Note that
the problem of handling enhanced service payments without leaking information
is discussed in Appendix B and is independent of the problem of accurately ac-
counting for bandwidth contributions: although many Tor incentive schemes use
a single token to handle both problems at once, this need not be the case.
D.2 Indirect Accounting
Accounting for bandwidth indirectly requires a measurement infrastructure and
service audit system that prevents providers from cheating to receive bwtokens
disproportionate to their actual contributions. The LIRA incentive scheme [16]
also relies on such a system. A bandwidth audit system measures the expected
bandwidth at each relay and produces weights for the Tor consensus that are used
during path selection. If accurate and secure, these weights could also dictate
how to distribute bwtokens to relays in proportion to their contributions. Tor
currently runs a bandwidth audit service, but it has been shown to be easily
manipulable [3].
The most recent alternative Tor bandwidth measurement system is called
EigenSpeed [30, 31]. In EigenSpeed, relays opportunistically measure their in-
teractions with other relays and send the observation vectors to the authorities.
The authorities combine the measurements from all relays using principal com-
ponent analysis (PCA), and produce a set of authoritative weights that can be
distributed via the Tor consensus ﬁle. Unfortunately, EigenSpeed has the follow-
ing problems:
– It does not account for asymmetric bandwidth.
– It is unclear how to measure relays acting in entry and exit positions. Since
EigenSpeed measures only the peer-to-peer bandwidth relays oﬀereach other,
a relay might obtain a high EigenSpeed rating without ever accepting con-
nections from non-relay clients or forwarding traﬃc to external destinations.
– Because measurements are opportunistic, EigenSpeed tends to under-estimate
the contributions of the fastest relays.
– It is unclear how to handle sybil attacks by malicious collectives.
Correctly attributing bandwidth contributions to providers via either of the
two methods outlined in this section remains an open research problem, and one
that future work should consider.
E Extended Discussion
E.1 Direct Payment for Anonymity
There have been previous approaches deployed involving some form of direct
payment for Tor. It is instructive to consider what these do and do not provide.
Torservers.net is an international federated consortium of nonproﬁt organiza-
tions that uses donated funds to purchase service especially for large capacity
exit relays in various locations (so far in the U.S. and Europe). This system
oﬀers direct ﬁnancial payment for provided service rather than providing either

basic service or service improvement as compensation. It also does not aspire
to the market driven exchangeability of incentives that we envision. It is based
more on the cost of running a given capacity server in a given market than on
direct measurement of amount of service provided.
A commercial pre-Tor onion routing network, the Freedom Network from
Zero Knowledge Systems, was operated in the early 2000s. This network allowed
clients to purchase a number of pseudonyms that were granted access to the
Freedom Network, and like torservers.net, network relay operators were paid
monetarily for bandwidth provided. This, however, was designed so that all
network providers were expected to operate for compensation and essentially all
clients were expected to pay proportionally to service obtained or contracted.
E.2 Path to Deployment
It may be useful for cleaner experimental results to deploy a separate pay net-
work along the lines of Freedom, for example, to see the relation of diﬀerentiated
service parameters to incentives for providing various amounts of service. Our
long-term goal, however, is to grow the Tor network for all users regardless of
ability to pay. Such experimental results are thus unlikely to be at all representa-
tive of intended usage patterns and may thus be of limited usefulness—without
even considering the impact of such partitioning on anonymity.
This necessitates a plan for deploying an incentive scheme that dovetails with
existing and otherwise planned Tor protocols and Tor infrastructure, which will
thus require the explicit approval of principal Tor developers and the tacit ap-
proval of a statistically large fraction of Tor relay operators, directory operators,
etc. To gain the approval of developers, it is not enough to have vetted research
results. Tor proposals [33] will need to be created and accepted.
We will further explore the need for tacit relay operator approval presently.
We note here simply that anything deployed should minimize major unpleasant
surprises for relay operators. A measure of this might be resistance to adopting
new Tor releases that incorporate new incentive mechanisms. Rollout must also
be gradual in multiple senses: the more relays running versions of Tor incorpo-
rating features of any incentive scheme are able to function smoothly with relays
running versions of Tor without those features, the easier it will be to introduce
those features into the network. At the same time, the more multiple incentive-
scheme feature changes are simultaneously deployed rather than one at a time,
the harder it will be to understand, isolate, and debug problems that inevitably
arise when features are deployed in the wild. We can also separate rollout of a
bank and network information directory system and associated experiments of
their interaction with participating relays and simulated clients from subsequent
rollout of experimental clients.
Tor follows common practice of making alpha releases available to those who
are willing to take some risks to help understand and debug new features be-
fore they are incorporated into stable releases for the general user and operator
population, for example, when introducing a new handshake or directory infor-
mation protocol. This amounts to a live experimental network interoperating
with the stable network. Alpha releases are, however, intended to incorporate

features and changes that may need some further adjusting and debugging but
are already intended for deployment rather than for experimental evaluation.
Approaches to experimental research include simulation and live or testbed
network experimentation. Shadow [14] permits full scale simulation of the entire
current Tor network on a single server. But this cannot address a primary ques-
tion of how incentives will aﬀect behavior of client and relay operating users.
PlanetLab has been used both for entirely experimental Tor networks and to
run experimental relays that participate in the public Tor network. As a gen-
eral shared network experimentation resource PlanetLab may not be suitable for
sustained large scale experimentation involving diﬀerentiated service. Also, it is
important to manage the sorts of experiments running on the live Tor network
lest they signiﬁcantly harm security or performance for the users or network ele-
ments. We must also consider how to make client software adequately available.
As discussed in Section 4.4, we advocate for a new experimental Tor release
as a means for creating an experimental network. Research experiments may re-
quire relays that are only capable of handling experimental traﬃc but that can
pass this transparently to other parts of the Tor network. As with network ex-
perimentation, some of the infrastructure may run on PlanetLab as appropriate,
but that need not be the case. After experimental release, we expect appropri-
ate parts of new designs to follow Tor’s traditional deployment process: ﬁrst
in alpha releases, then standard releases; older versions may eventually become
unsupported.
E.3 Managing Network Information
Tor’s current directory system is distributed but centralized. A relatively small
set of directory authorities (currently roughly 2.5 orders of magnitude smaller
than the network) vote on the status of relays in the network. The results are
pushed out to all relays so that, except when unusual problems arise, Tor clients
do not need to interact with this small set.
It is an open question how far Tor’s current approach will scale. However, it
is unclear how far it practically needs to do so given the limitations to diversity
of locations for a large adversary to observe in the underlying network [18]. The
anonymity beneﬁt of attempting to maintain a single uniform network picture
versus allowing partitioning may not be as great as often assumed [8]. Nonethe-
less, alternative approaches to distributing network information have been ex-
plored in the research literature, including P2P and DHT based schemes and
PIR schemes. None have yet been vetted to the point of deployment or even
to having a Tor proposal. It is an open research question if decentralized coin
systems already in use, such as Bitcoin, could be used for storage of Tor network
information [23].