Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies ; 2016 (2):135–154
William Melicher, Mahmood Sharif, Joshua Tan, Lujo Bauer, Mihai Christodorescu, and
Pedro Giovanni Leon
(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual
Preferences for Web Tracking
Abstract: Online trackers compile proﬁles on users for
targeting ads, customizing websites, and selling users’
information. In this paper, we report on the ﬁrst de-
tailed study of the perceived beneﬁts and risks of
tracking—and the reasons behind them—conducted in
the context of users’ own browsing histories. Prior work
has studied this in the abstract; in contrast, we collected
browsinghistoriesfromandinterviewed35peopleabout
the perceived beneﬁts and risks of online tracking in the
context of their own browsing behavior. We ﬁnd that
many users want more control over tracking and think
that controlled tracking has beneﬁts, but are unwilling
toputintheeﬀorttocontroltrackingordistrustcurrent
tools. We conﬁrm previous ﬁndings that users’ general
attitudes about tracking are often at odds with their
comfort in speciﬁc situations. We also identify speciﬁc
situational factors that contribute to users’ preferences
about online tracking and explore how and why. Finally,
we examine a sample of popular tools for controlling
tracking and show that they only partially address the
situationalfactorsdrivingusers’preferences.Wesuggest
opportunities to improve such tools, and explore the use
of a classiﬁer to automatically determine whether a user
would be comfortable with tracking on a particular page
visit; our results suggest this is a promising direction for
future work.
Keywords: online tracking, human factors
DOI 10.1515/popets-2016-0009
Received 2015-08-31; revised 2015-11-19; accepted 2015-12-02.
1 Introduction
Online tracking has become a widespread practice. It
allows for an increasingly personalized user experience
and more eﬀective ads, which support free online ser-
William Melicher, Mahmood Sharif, Joshua T an,
Lujo Bauer, Pedro Giovanni Leon: Carnegie Mellon Uni-
versity; {billy, mahmoods, jstan, lbauer, pedrogln}@cmu.edu
Mihai Christodorescu: Qualcomm; mi-
hai@qti.qualcomm.com
vices. However, users also have serious privacy concerns
about online tracking. Current policy initiatives to limit
online tracking have diﬃculty establishing guidelines
that all stakeholders agree on. Technical solutions have
usability problems that interfere with their adoption
and eﬃcacy [26].
Studies that investigate online tracking and behav-
ioral advertising have found that users’ preferences are
complex and have suggested that they can be highly
contextual and diﬃcult to capture [24, 41]. Quantitative
workhasalsosuggestedthatonlineprivacydecisionsare
contextual—users’ preferences in hypothetical scenarios
havebeenshowntovaryconsiderablybasedondetailsof
framing and context [24, 30, 37]. Overall, although the
research community has achieved a general understand-
ing of users’ attitudes towards tracking (and a more
speciﬁc understanding of preferences for behavioral ad-
vertising), it is far from clear under what speciﬁc cir-
cumstances users would consent to be tracked and how
speciﬁc situational factors (e.g., properties of websites
or trackers) lead to their decisions. At the same time,
a more precise understanding of these factors is neces-
sary if we are to develop eﬀective solutions—technical
or otherwise—to control tracking in a non-binary way.
To improve our understanding of how speciﬁc situ-
ational factors inform user preferences for online track-
ing, we conducted 35 in-person, semi-structured inter-
views. We examined participants’ feelings and concerns
about tracking in actual web-browsing situations that
they experienced outside of the study setting. To that
end, we ﬁrst extracted participants’ web-browsing his-
tory using a web-browser plugin, and structured each
interview around a series of web-browsing tracking situ-
ations (i.e., visits to speciﬁc pages or pairs of pages) that
the participant had experienced during the two weeks
preceding the interview.
Following this methodology, we believe we have
achieved a more precise and thorough understanding
of users’ comfort with tracking as an interplay between
situation-speciﬁc factors, the harms and beneﬁts these
factors cause users to perceive, and users’ general atti-
tudes about tracking. By basing our study on concrete
experiences, we are able to conﬁrm and reinforce previ-
ous results derived from more hypothetical methods, as


(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 136
well as uncover speciﬁc new ﬁndings. For example, some
users link their tracking preferences to how frequently
they visit a site; and participants were less comfortable
with the more invisible outcomes (price discrimination,
revenue to web sites, etc.) than with more noticeable
outcomes (ads, customization, etc.).
In general, we found participants to have reasoned,
complex, and nuanced preferences, with their comfort
with tracking in speciﬁc situations depending on a num-
ber of situation-speciﬁc factors. Our participants’ gen-
eral attitudes about tracking were often at odds with
their tracking preferences in speciﬁc tracking situa-
tions; for example, individuals who generally preferred
toavoidtrackingwerecomfortablewithbeingtrackedin
some situations (and vice versa). This interplay between
general attitudes and behaviors in speciﬁc situations is
well documented in prior work [8, 13, 28, 29]. Whereas
previous work focused on the properties of trackers and
the information they collect, we found that participants’
comfort with tracking was usually based on the proper-
ties of the sites they visited, which led them to focus on
speciﬁc potential harms or beneﬁts. For example, fac-
tors such as participants’ trust in or frequency of visits
to a particular site played a signiﬁcant role in determin-
ing comfort with tracking. The topic of sites also often
played a role, sometimes as a proxy for the type of infor-
mation participants believed trackers could learn about
them.
In light of this understanding of how situational fac-
tors aﬀect user comfort, we revisit several popular web-
browser plugins and mechanisms for limiting tracking,
and examine the extent to which they are (in principle)
able to eﬀectively implement user preferences. We ﬁnd
that while existing tools can often help address some
of the outcomes of tracking that participants seek to
achieve or avoid (e.g., avoiding unwanted ads), they are
too coarse-grained and generally unable to take into ac-
count the situational factors on which users base their
preferences. We examine where the existing tools fall
short, often failing to support users’ situation-speciﬁc
needs and preferences; we oﬀer a set of design sugges-
tions for approaches that would better ﬁt users’ needs.
Leveraging our understanding of how speciﬁc factors in-
ﬂuence comfort with tracking, we explore whether it is
possible to automatically determine, on a per-page-visit
basis, whether a user is comfortable with tracking. Our
initial results suggest this to be a viable direction: we
train a classiﬁer that can with minimal false positives
identify about 50% of the situations in which a user is
comfortable being tracked. We believe this is a promis-
ing direction for the development of web browser addons
that will automatically or semi-automatically allow or
disallowtrackingtomatchindividualusers’preferences.
2 Background and Related Work
Online tracking is used for a variety of purposes. It
allows customized search results, tailored recommen-
dations on websites, better understanding of audience
characteristics through analytics, and personalized ad-
vertisements. Given these many uses, it is not surprising
that online companies make extensive use of this prac-
tice. In 2011, third-party trackers were found on 79% of
the Alexa top 500 websites [34].
In this section, we ﬁrst discuss users’ concerns about
online tracking and the beneﬁts they might gain from
it. Then we present previous work that studies which
factors aﬀect users’ preferences for online tracking. Fi-
nally, we discuss current approaches to provide tools to
enforce users’ preferences.
Concerns about online tracking By using online
tracking, advertisers can target ads based on sensitive
information [19, 22], discriminate against users [19, 39],
or even manipulate users’ purchasing intentions [16].
Due to these practices, surveys of internet users
have found high levels of concern about online track-
ing. Turow et al. found that87% of telephone survey
respondents would not allow advertisers to track them
online if given a choice [40]. Wills et al. built a website
thatuserscouldvisittolearnwhattrackerswerepresent
on the pages they had visited in the past, ﬁnding that
users’ expressed privacy concerns [43]. A more recent
Pew telephone survey found that 68% of respondents
did not like targeted ads due to concerns about online
tracking [32]. However, qualitative research has found
that users are not completely against targeted ads, but
they are concerned about the lack of transparency and
control over the tracking that enables it [41]. Apart from
transparency and control concerns, users have also ex-
pressed concerns about the type of targeted ads that
they might see, which can lead to embarrassment [9].
Prior work has discovered that there is a diﬀerence
between the preferences and concerns that users’ ex-
press in the context of research studies and their actual
privacy behaviors [8, 13, 28, 29]. Our research supports
this ﬁnding. In addition, the diﬀerence between hypo-
thetical surveys and real behavior motivates our choice
to ground our study in users’ real behavior.

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 137
Beneﬁts of trackingWhile online tracking raises pri-
vacy concerns, it also has beneﬁts, both to users and
advertising companies. The revenue that online track-
ing provides to companies enables some websites to pro-
vide free content [45]. Online advertising (which often
employs tracking) was responsible for over$49 billion
in revenue for US practitioners in 2014 [15]. Although
the advertising industry argues that behavioral adver-
tising is a signiﬁcant contributor to online advertis-
ing revenue [12], others have questioned its eﬀective-
ness [20, 25, 38].
In addition, previous studies have shown that
users often ﬁnd the outcomes of online tracking to be
beneﬁcial. For example, researchers conducting semi-
structured interviews found that while41 of 48 partic-
ipants expressed privacy concerns,31 participants still
perceived targeted ads as useful [41]. Others found that
participants preferred Google’s personalized search re-
sults over “vanilla” results in38% of the cases, whereas
the opposite happened in only23% of cases [31].
Thedesiretoreapthesebeneﬁtsofadvertisingwhile
minimizing annoyance from ads has prompted the cre-
ation of an “Acceptable Ads” program by industry play-
ers [6]. However, this program is focused on removing
intrusive ads, not protecting privacy.
Factors that aﬀect preferencesPrevious work has
attempted to identify factors that aﬀect users’ comfort
regarding online tracking. The majority of study partic-
ipants were comfortable with tracking for the purpose
of personalizing search results, as long as the stored in-
formation is not sensitive [31]. In another study where
tracking companies’ practices were shown to users, users
relied mostly on tracking companies’ sharing and re-
tention practices to decide what types of information
they would disclose for the purpose of receiving targeted
ads [27]. In a follow-up work, participants expressed
willingness to share more data if given prior control
mechanisms to select the type of shared information,
restrict ﬁrst and third parties from collecting their info,
and customize the topics of targeted ads [17]. In the
same work, researchers found that frequency of website
visits, having an IT background, general privacy atti-
tudes (measured via the Westin Index), and the inten-
tion of exploring online ads are correlated with partici-
pants’ willingness to share. Diﬀerent browsing scenarios
(e.g., planning a vacation, looking for a job, etc.) aﬀect
participants’ comfort with tracking [9, 41]; furthermore,
users’ awareness that tracking spans visits to multiple
sites is positively correlated with their concerns about
tracking [33].
Our work diﬀers from previous work in that we gain
a more comprehensive view of the factors that aﬀect
users’ comfort with online tracking due to not focus-
ing on particular aspect of tracking via semi-structured
interviews. Our study is also the ﬁrst to explore partici-
pants’ tracking preferences based on their real browsing
histories, which we believe allows us to capture users’
privacy preferences more faithfully.
Tools to control online tracking Many tools to
control online tracking have been developed. Popular
browser plugins such as Adblock Plus, Ghostery, and
Blur [1–3] allow users to selectively block third-party
trackers. Another plugin, ShareMeNot, focuses on pre-
venting social widgets from tracking users [35]. Mod-
ern web browsers include privacy settings to manage
cookies, incognito browsing modes, and a setting to
signal a global preference to not be tracked (i.e., Do
Not Track). The W3C recently published tentative stan-
dards for Do Not Track (DNT) [5], providing concrete
guidance on how companies should respond to DNT re-
quests and eliminating a common reason for industry
non-compliance. The ad industry allows users to install
speciﬁc cookies to opt out of targeted ads from ad com-
panies aﬃliated with a self-regulatory organization [7].
However, the plugins and tools largely oﬀer users bi-
nary alternatives to enable or disable online tracking
or targeted ads on a per-company basis. Furthermore,
opt-out options sometimes only prevent the showing of
targeted ads, rather than preventing tracking. As pre-
vious research has shown, users are not satisﬁed with
these features [9, 17].
Several systems (e.g., Adnostic [36], Privad [23],
RePriv [21], and CoP [14]) have been proposed to pro-
tect users’ privacy by treating the collection of users’
data and the usage of the data as two separate tasks.
While promising, these systems face several obsta-
cles hindering their adoption. Primarily, they require
changes to the advertising ecosystem that advertising
companies have little incentive to perform.
As browser cookies are a popular method to track
users, eﬀective management of cookies has the potential
to limit online tracking. However, users struggle to use
the available tools for managing cookie-based tracking
due to usability issues. Researchers have tested the us-
ability of nine popular tools to limit tracking and found
that participants faced problems understanding and us-
ing them; many users believed they had conﬁgured the
tools to limit tracking when they had failed to do so [26].
There is a need for user-friendly tools that align with
users’ skills and mental models.

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 138
In this paper, we examine users’ preferences for on-
line tracking to inform the design of tools that prevent
the drawbacks of tracking while simultaneously allowing
the beneﬁts. To that end, we aim to uncover the situa-
tional factors that a tool should provide controls for in
order to best implement users’ tracking preferences.
3 Methodology
We conducted 35 in-person, semi-structured interviews
with internet users about online tracking. We elicited
participants’ online-tracking preferences in the context
of their own browsing history. Participants were re-
quired to use either the Chrome or Firefox browsers
in order to install a web browser plugin that would al-
low them to send their sanitized browsing history to re-
searchers. The interviews lasted approximately 60 min-
utes and participants were paid $15 each. The study
protocol was approved by the Carnegie Mellon Univer-
sity Institutional Review Board.
3.1 Participant Demographics
We recruited 17 women and 18 men from the Pittsburgh
area via Craigslist, ﬂyers, and university forums to par-
ticipate in “a study about online privacy behaviors.”
Participants’ ages ranged from18 to 58 years, with an
average of27 and standard deviation of8.2. The partic-
ipants had a variety of occupations including students,
nurses, artists, and business-related jobs. Twenty-ﬁve
held a bachelors or higher degree. All of them identi-
ﬁed as either very or somewhat technically savvy, and
12 had an IT-related background. Twenty-one partici-
pants reported that they use ad-blocking software. Our
participants skew towards being more technically savvy
and are from a speciﬁc demographic group, Firefox and
Chrome users.
3.2 Interview Procedure
We began each interview by examining participants’
awareness of and general opinions about online track-
ing. Participants were asked to read a short description
of online tracking to establish a baseline understand-
ing (see Appendix A.1). Then, we collected participants’
general perceptions of beneﬁts and risks of online track-
ing and their knowledge of and experience with tools to
control tracking. Finally, we elicited attitudes towards
Fig. 1.Example of web history print outs that are shown to par-
ticipants during interviews.
online tracking for a set of page visits from participants’
own browsing history. The interview script is shown in
Appendix A.
With the exception of general attitudes towards
tracking, all results are based on web pages participants
actually visited. For these visits, participants were asked
what they perceived as the positives and negatives of
tracking, what they thought would happen as a result
of tracking, and their comfort with tracking. Responses
were based on participants’ understanding of what did
or could have happened.
Participants were shown information about speciﬁc
pages they had visited, including the time each was
visited, the web page’s title, the website’s URL, and
a screen shot of its homepage. Figure 1 shows an ex-
ample of what participants saw. We describe how web
pages were selected for this purpose in Section 3.3. If
a participant did not remember visiting a speciﬁc web
page, we showed the participant a diﬀerent web page
thatmetthesameselectioncriteria.Onaverage,partici-
pants were interviewed eleven days after they submitted
their browsing history. We ﬁrst showed participants up
tofourindividualwebpagesandelicitedtheirﬁrst-party
tracking preferences. We then showed participants up to
seven pairs of web pages and elicited third-party pref-
erences. In each situation, participants were prompted
ﬁrst to think about the speciﬁc beneﬁts and risks of
being tracked, and then to think about the informa-
tion that could be learned from tracking participants,
and how it could be used. In order to reduce negativ-
ity bias [11], we asked participants positive questions
before negative ones. We did this because we observed
negativity bias during pilot interviews, in which partic-
ipants had diﬃculty discussing the beneﬁts of tracking
after discussing the negative aspects.

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 139
3.3 Website Selection
We screened participants to ensure their preferred
browser was one of the two major browsers—Firefox
or Chrome—for which we developed plugins to extract
browsing history. Participants submitted their browsing
history for the last two weeks before signing up for the
interview. This length of time was chosen to capture a
representative fraction of participants’ online behaviors
while allowing them to remember the situational factors
of their web page visits. Participants had the opportu-
nity to remove any web pages that they did not wish
to share via a software interface that we provided. We
collected browsing history from 48 participants, though
we only present data for the 35 eligible participants that
were able to attend the interview.
Prior to each interview we analyzed the received his-
tory and selected the web pages to show during the in-
terview. Web pages were chosen to cover a wide range of
situations about which participants might have diﬀerent
feelings. Participants were invited to interviews only if
the websites in their history covered at least seven of the
eleven situations of interest. Since we expect that most
internet users would encounter most of these situations
within a two-week period, this criteria was primarily
intended to detect cheating. Only one prospective par-
ticipant did not meet this requirement and they were
not compensated.
To allow us to sample web pages from diﬀerent cat-
egories for use during the interviews, we ﬁrst automat-
ically categorized all web pages in participants’ histo-
ries using information from DMOZ, a crowd-sourced
database of websites tagged by topic [4]. The types of
websites we selected to ask participants about are de-
scribed in Appendix A.2. This method of selecting web-
sites was not meant to perfectly represent all websites
in a particular category or topic, but to sample a wide
range of situations about which we could ask partici-
pants. Since each participant saw slightly diﬀerent situ-
ations, some participants had the opportunity to com-
ment on diﬀerent issues. Our analysis is meant to show
the range of opinions participants have about tracking
based on their own web history.
The majority of participants (80%) removed at least
one web page from their history, though the median
percentage of pages removed (2%) was low. We did not
collect information about the websites participants san-
itized beyond counting them.
3.4 Data Analysis
Interviews were recorded and transcribed. We per-
formed an exploratory and qualitative analysis of par-
ticipants’ responses. Transcripts were unitized and seg-
mentedbythetrackingsituationsthatparticipantswere
asked about. Two coders independently analyzed a sub-
set of interviews and developed their own codes. They
thendiscussedtheindividuallyderivedcodesandagreed
on a ﬁnal set of codes. Using the agreed-upon codes,
they individually coded each of the interview questions,
and met to resolve disagreements. Disagreements were
resolved by the two coders discussing each instance
of disagreement and reaching agreement by clarifying
coding deﬁnitions. Before coding resolution, the coders
agreed on 91% of the coding instances. After coding, we
examined the relationship between the perceived out-
comes and the decision-making factors. We also quanti-
ﬁed the frequencies of diﬀerent decision-making factors.
3.5 Limitations
Because participants were asked to submit their brows-
ing history, our sample of participants was likely less
privacy sensitive than the general population. To reduce
this bias and mitigate privacy risks, we allowed par-
ticipants to ﬁlter their browsing history before submit-
ting it to us. As participants could prune their browsing
history, the websites that we asked participants about
mightbeskewedtowardlessprivacy-sensitiveones;how-
ever,wedidnotdiscoverevidenceofsystematicpruning.
Our selection of websites was based on information
in the open directory project [4], which includes over
four million sites but may have nevertheless resulted in
a skewed sample. While we asked about only a hand-
ful of websites for each participant, they were carefully
selected to explore preferences about a wide range of
diﬀerent situations.
Our data was collected via after-the-fact interview-
ing. Interviews conducted in this way are not without
bias—participants may alter their opinions in the inter-
view to rationalize their past behavior. However, this
bias is likely to oppose the bias in previous work, which
uses hypothetical survey methodology [24, 30, 37]. In
addition, we believe that this bias is countered by the
fact that we grounded interviews in participants’ real
browsing histories to more realistically capture prefer-
ences that matter to them.
The number of participants and websites we inves-
tigated was purposely limited to enable us to explore

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 140
nuanced and detailed preferences about speciﬁc situa-
tions. We would not have been able to explore pref-
erences to the detail we desired with a larger sample.
We only recruited participants who could attend an in-
person interview in our geographic location. Our sample
is not representative of the population as a whole, and
as such, some of our ﬁndings may not generalize be-
yond our sample. Our sample of participants skewed to-
wards being more tech-savvy, only used the Firefox and
Chrome web browsers and used browser plugins more
than the general population.
Regardless of the small sample size and self-
selection, participants expressed a wide range of opin-
ions enabling new ﬁndings and helping better inform the
design of online privacy tools. We do not make claims
that our participants are representative of the popu-
lation, but only that our analysis yields insight about
promising directions for future privacy plug-in design.
4 Results
Participants expressed a variety of diﬀerent opinions
about online tracking, which we now present. First, we
discuss our participants’ general attitudes and concep-
tions, in Section 4.1. In Section 4.2, we discuss the ben-
eﬁts and harms of tracking perceived by participants.
Finally, in Section 4.3, we examine how situational fac-
tors aﬀected participants’ perceptions of these harms
and beneﬁts.
4.1 General Attitudes and Conceptions
Here we describe the wide range of general attitudes
that participants had toward online tracking. Although
participants varied in the amount of information they
believed could be learned about them by trackers, par-
ticipants who believed that trackers would learn either
nothing or everything about them were a minority.
Attitudes toward trackingParticipants’ general at-
titudes toward tracking often guided their comfort with
speciﬁc situations; however, general attitude was not al-
ways the deciding factor. For example, P9 generally dis-
liked tracking, butfeltcomfortablewith tracking ineach
situation we presented. Our participants had a variety
of general opinions about online privacy. Based on par-
ticipants’ responses to introductory questions, we iden-
tiﬁed four categories of opinions toward online tracking:
generally negative (“dislike”); generally neutral (“OK”);
both positive and negative (“mixed”); and positive, pro-
vided certain conditions held (“conditional”). Fourteen
participants saw tracking as conditionally positive. For
example, P1 mentioned that he is okay with tracking
as long as it has a “limit,” and does not collect per-
sonal information. Eight participants saw tracking as
generally neutral, nine saw it as generally negative, and
the remaining four had mixed feelings. A summary of
participants’ comfort levels in diﬀerent tracking situa-
tions, as well as their general opinions toward tracking,
is shown in Figure 2.
Twelve participants felt resigned to tracking. Al-
though their feelings about online tracking varied, these
participants believed that online tracking was unavoid-
able and that it was futile to even attempt to control
it. These participants still had nuanced preferences for
tracking in particular situations, but did not see a rea-
son to put eﬀort into limiting it. Additionally, six par-
ticipants distrusted the eﬀectiveness of available tools
and three felt that using them was too much work.
 (dislike) *  P6
 (dislike)   P21
 (dislike)   P17
 (conditional)   P16
 (conditional) *  P5
 (conditional)   P32
 (conditional)   P30
 (conditional)   P25
 (conditional)    P1
 (conditional)   P10
 (dislike)    P8
 (dislike)   P13
 (conditional) * P20
 (conditional)   P35
 (conditional)   P18
 (dislike)   P11
 (conditional)   P27
 (dislike) *  P7
 (mixed) * P19
 (conditional) *  P3
 (conditional) * P15
 (conditional)   P33
 (ok)   P34
 (mixed)   P31
 (ok)   P29
 (mixed)   P22
 (ok) * P24
 (ok) *  P4
 (ok)   P26
 (ok)   P14
 (ok)   P23
 (dislike) * P28
 (ok)   P12
 (mixed)    P2
 (dislike) *  P9
0% 25% 50% 75% 100%
Percent of situations
Participant number
Comfort level Uncomfortable Depends Comfortable
Fig. 2.Participants’ general opinion about tracking related to
their comfort with tracking in our tracking situations. Each par-
ticipant’s general opinion, shown in parentheses, is one of: dislike,
would like if some conditions were met, mixed feelings about
tracking, and “OK” with tracking. * indicates participant was
generally resigned to tracking.

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 141
Conceptions about revealed information In ad-
dition to general attitudes about tracking, participants
had a range of diﬀerent perceptions of what tracking
companies could learn about them. At one end of the
spectrum, P12 thought that trackers could only access
a limited subset of the information on websites be-
ing tracked. When asked what she thought her Google
searches might reveal about her, she explained “I don’t
give my credit card details or ... put my age here or
anything. It’s just a normal search ... so I don’t think
they know anything.” At the other end, P18 held more
extreme views, believing that trackers could access all
information from tracked websites. This included the
contents of her bank statements and private communi-
cations via email and social networking sites. P18 was
uncomfortable with a third party tracking his Facebook
visits because “it’s a kind of private medium to talk ... I
might have some private data that I extend with them.
So I don’t want at all to be tracked on Facebook.” De-
spite these varied perceptions of what level of access
trackers have, participants rarely considered the infor-
mation that could be inferred from their visits to the
web page, or the website in general, over time.
It is worth noting that all participants were pro-
vided a description of tracking at the beginning of the
interview, which stated “credit card numbers, Social Se-
curity numbers, passwords, and other sensitive personal
information is normally out of reach of online track-
ers.” Seven participants mentioned that they did not
trust this description and believed sensitive information
could be easily obtained by trackers. This view often
coincided with the belief that trackers would use mali-
cious means to gather data. Additionally, after reading
ourdescription,sevenparticipantsexpressedbeingcom-
forted to learn that sensitive personal information was
unlikely to be tracked, as this was something they were
previously uncertain of.
Misconceptions about online tracking For each
tracking situation, we coded whether participants
demonstrated a misconception about online tracking.
Although we provided participants with a description
of online tracking at the beginning of the interview, 14
participantsdemonstratedamisconceptionaboutonline
tracking at a subsequent point in the interview. These
misconceptions related to online tracking mechanisms:
ten participants conﬂated online tracking with malware
(e.g., hidden scripts) and four participants believed it
directly involved local browser website history.
Participants’ misconceptions about online tracking
inﬂuenced their comfort with tracking to diﬀerent de-
grees. For each tracking situation in which participants
demonstrated a misconception, we coded whether the
misconception seemed to be the primary factor inﬂu-
encing their comfort with tracking in that situation.
Our results suggest that misconceptions had little over-
all impact on participants’ elicited preferences. Only
three participants demonstrated a misconception that
appeared to signiﬁcantly aﬀect their comfort with track-
ing in a speciﬁc tracking situation. In these cases, par-
ticipants believed the tracker could use malicious scripts
to obtain sensitive information and were therefore less
comfortable being tracked. The eleven remaining partic-
ipants with misconceptions about tracking did not ap-
pear to be strongly inﬂuenced by those misconceptions;
instead, their comfort seemed to be determined by fac-
tors such as whether personal information was involved
or whether the participant trusted the tracker.
4.2 Users’ Perceptions of Outcomes
Participants discussed a variety of online-tracking out-
comes: some that were overtly visible—including tar-
geted ads and customized web sites—and some that
were not—such as more revenue for companies. Partic-
ipants also discussed diﬀerent harms and beneﬁts that
are possible from each one of the outcomes (e.g., tar-
geted ads could be useful or embarrassing). In this sec-
tion, we separately discuss the noticeable (Section 4.2.1)
and the less overt ones (Section 4.2.2), their beneﬁts and
harms as conceptualized by the participants, and how
these contributed to participants feeling comfortable or
uncomfortable with tracking in speciﬁc situations. Ta-
ble 1 summarizes participants’ perceptions of diﬀerent
perceived outcomes of tracking; Figure 3 shows the re-
lationship between these perceived outcomes and par-
ticipants’ comfort with tracking.
4.2.1 User Noticeable Outcomes
One type of outcome that participants experienced as a
result of tracking were things that they would be able to
directly notice. Three of these outcomes—targeted ads,
customization of websites, and legal harms—received
a mix of positive and negative reactions from partici-
pants. At the same time, online tracking also triggered
a “weird feeling” for some participants. Here we present
a detailed analysis.

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 142
Outcome (#) Positive (#) Negative
Targeted ads (26) Relevant, useful; preferred to typical ads (21) Distracting, annoying; Others might notice
Feeling “stalked” (24)
Customized websites (11) Better search, recommendation experience (5) “tracking bubble”
NoticeableLegal action (8) Legal consequences, e.g., when ﬁle sharing
Company revenue (11) Access to free services (8) Feel used by companies
Price discrimination (11) Lower prices, sales, coupons (5) Potential for higher prices
InvisibleData linked to identity (12) Feels privacy invasive
Table 1.Number of participants that mentioned possible outcomes of tracking. Participants saw trade-oﬀs of diﬀerent outcomes de-
pending on the situation.
Company revenue
Customization
Targeted ads
Price discrimination
0% 25% 50% 75% 100%
Percent of tracking situations
Beneficial outcomes
Comfort
Uncomfortable
Depends
Comfortable
(a) With positive outcomes.
Legal action
Customization
Targeted ads
Weird feeling
Price discrimination
Linked
Company revenue
0% 25% 50% 75% 100%
Percent of tracking situations
Harmful outcomes
Comfort
Uncomfortable
Depends
Comfortable
(b) With negative outcomes.
Fig. 3.Percentage of tracking situations in which participants
see a particular outcome and their comfort for tracking in that
situation. Situations in which participants perceive invisible harms
are also those in which they are most uncomfortable.
Targeted ads Among the most common of noticeable
outcomes were targeted ads. The majority of partici-
pants (74%) saw targeted advertisements as beneﬁcial
or at least preferable to non-targeted ads in at least
one tracking situation. In these cases, participants ex-
pressed that advertisements targeted to their interests
could help them save time or money. P20, for example,
explained that targeted ads could help remind her of
products that she wanted to buy. Sometimes, partici-
pants felt that these ads might be helpful for other peo-
ple, but not for themselves. As an example, P21 said: “it
just depends on the kind of person that you are. Some
people might ﬁnd that beneﬁcial.”
More than half of participants (60%) found tar-
geted ads harmful in at least one tracking situation.
In these cases, participants cited the repetitive nature
of targeted ads as both annoying and “pushy.” More-
over, targeted ads were sometimes distracting to partic-
ipants if they were targeted to their interests on top-
ically diﬀerent sites. Additionally, several participants
said that sometimes they feel embarrassed if ads tar-
geted to them are observed by others. For example, P19,
a fan of anime, was concerned that she might be shown,
and other people might notice, anime ads when she is
not browsing anime-related websites.
Customized websites About a third of participants
(31%) perceived potential customization of web pages
as beneﬁcial in at least one scenario. In these cases
participants felt that customization might save them
time if they are searching for something or allow tar-
geted content. P29, for instance, appreciated that such
customization could be used to target Google’s search
results. Participants similarly liked that social media
feeds and shopping sites are customized to their inter-
ests. P14, for example, thinks that it is “the whole point
of Facebook and social media websites.”
However, a handful of participants (14%) saw cus-
tomization as being harmful in at least one situation. In
these cases, which mainly involved search and shopping
websites, participants did not want a “tracking bubble”
phenomenon to dictate what content they saw. These
participants were uncomfortable with a company mak-
ing decisions based on past browsing behavior about
what content to show them. Participants felt that infer-
ences based on browsing history might be incorrect or
inaccurate. P7 wanted customization to help her, but
not bias what she was shown. Common to these cases
was participants’ wish to just “see the website” as it is,
not manipulated content.

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 143
Legal action Several participants (23%) were con-
cerned that tracked information can lead to real-world
harms in the form of legal repercussions or persecution
based on their beliefs. P33 said she would be concerned
if she were buying incriminating items. Although par-
ticipants expressed general concerns of this type, our
data set is understandably skewed towards not contain-
ing this information for speciﬁc situations, as partici-
pants were given the opportunity to cleanse sensitive
data from their browsing history before submission. One
participant, P8, expressed that tracking for the purpose
of persecution or legal action was potentially beneﬁcial
if done against “the bad guys.”
Negative feeling Over two thirds of partici-
pants (69%) expressed occasionally feeling “weird” or
“creeped out” by tracking. P23 said she felt like she was
being “stalked” by trackers in some cases. In most cases,
targeted ads were the catalyst for that feeling. For in-
stance, P28 feels “weird” when receiving emails about
volunteering in Tanzania, a place where she volunteered
ﬁve years ago.
4.2.2 User Invisible Outcomes
In contrast to outcomes that participants could eas-
ily notice, participants also mentioned several outcomes
that are invisible to internet users. The invisible out-
comes that were mentioned include: companies’ proﬁt,
price discrimination, and data being linked to the iden-
tity of the users. While the perceived beneﬁts did in-
ﬂuence their comfort level (Figure 3a), the perceived
harms had a more signiﬁcant eﬀect on their discomfort
level(Figure3b).Scenariosinwhichparticipantssawin-
visible outcomes as harmful are also situations in which
participants were least comfortable. In this section we
present the participants’ perceptions of these outcomes.
Price discrimination Participants indicated that
prices for online goods might be manipulated based
on the information a company had about them. About
a third of participants (31%) were hopeful that prices
would be lowered in the form of sales or deals, but ﬁve
participants recognized that prices could also be raised.
Company revenue Participants also expressed the
belief that tracking would be beneﬁcial for companies.
Whether participants saw that as beneﬁcial or harm-
ful to themselves varied. About a third of participants
(31%) liked this outcome, saying that the revenue that
companies get from this practice allows them to provide
free or better services. P28 explained “It’s just helping
businesses stay in business so I can use their services for
free.” However, about one fourth of participants (23%)
felt used by this practice in at least one instance, say-
ing that tracking purely for the purpose of proﬁt was
harmful or unpleasant in that the company beneﬁts but
the user does not. P15 exclaimed, “This is just typical
proﬁting oﬀ my information.”
Inference Participants were generally unsure what in-
formation about them could be inferred. They were un-
derstandably wary of this uncertainty, and were con-
cerned that it was diﬃcult to make decisions about
tracking without knowing what could happen. P13 says:
“Maybe they get something out of it. But just to be
sure I would rather have no tracking.” Others were more
generally open to being tracked in situations where in-
ference could have occurred, provided it did not harm
them. While we did not test the technical knowledge
of our participants, many participants revealed an in-
complete understanding about what could be inferred
from their web history. For example, participants rarely
considered that detailed information about them could
be inferred from pages that do not directly reveal that
information. P3, for example, did not think that her in-
come information would be revealed from her searches
on Google. However, targeting users based on their in-
come bracket is an optional feature of the Google Ad-
Words product. In addition, participants tended to rea-
son separately about each pair of websites in the third-
party scenarios, rather than consider what an advertiser
with knowledge of both pages’ visits might infer.
Data linked to identityTwelve participants felt that
linking data to their identity or other identifying infor-
mation would be an invasion of their privacy. P16 ex-
plainedthatsheisOKwithathirdpartytrackingheron
eBay as long as the tracker has no access to the personal
information on the page, which can be used to tie the
collected data to her identity. Related to this idea, P31
felt that aggregating data from multiple sources was un-
desirable. When asked to specify how she would like to
control tracking, she explained that tracking should be
limited to the visited website, as aggregating data from
multiple websites may create a detailed image of her
linked to her identity, and that would be too “invasive.”
4.2.3 Third-Party and First-Party Diﬀerences
Participants perceived a large diﬀerence between track-
ing by a ﬁrst party and by a third party. We coded par-

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 144
Long Time
Close Time
Sensitive
Social
Search
Shopping
Insensitive
Sensitive
Search
Shopping
Insensitive
0% 25% 50% 75% 100%
Percent of participants
Interview situation
Comfort
Uncomfortable
Depends
Comfortable
Third party First party
Fig. 4.Comfort of participants in diﬀerent scenarios. Participants
are often more uncomfortable with third-party tracking than ﬁrst-
party tracking, particularly for websites of sensitive topics.
ticipants’ comfort in each scenario to which we exposed
them; the results are shown in Figure 4. Participants
were less comfortable overall with tracking in all third-
party scenarios than any ﬁrst-party scenario. Interest-
ingly, over 75% of participants in the “sensitive” ﬁrst-
party tracking scenario were comfortable with tracking.
However,lessthan25%ofparticipantswerecomfortable
with visits to these same websites being tracked by third
parties. A plausible explanation for this phenomenon is
that the participants felt safe being tracked by the ﬁrst
party with whom they willingly share sensitive infor-
mation, but were concerned about the potential of a
third party getting hold of this information. This is ex-
empliﬁed by P3, who felt comfortable being tracked by
her banking website, which she perceives as trustworthy,
but was uncomfortable being tracked by a third party
on the same website, as she was worried that personal
information learned by the third party may be used to
cause her harm.
4.2.4 Eﬀect of Beneﬁts and Harms on Comfort
We were also interested to see how the beneﬁts and
harmsresultingfromoutcomesrelatetothecomfortlev-
els of the participants. We examined the comfort level
of participants in scenarios where they saw only bene-
ﬁcial outcomes, only harmful outcomes, both beneﬁcial
and harmful outcomes, or no outcomes at all. The re-
sults are illustrated in Figure 5. Participants were rarely
uncomfortable when they saw only beneﬁts, but when
they perceived both beneﬁts and harms, participants
became less decisive and conditioned their comfort on
diﬀerent factors. Additionally, discomfort increased in
cases where there were no perceived beneﬁts. While
these results are not very surprising, they imply that
Neither (34)
Harmful (48)
Beneficial (96)
Both (107)
0% 25% 50% 75% 100%
Percent of tracking situations
Perceived
outcome
Comfort level
Uncomfortable
Depends
Comfortable
Fig. 5.Comfort of participants in scenarios where they saw bene-
ﬁts, harms, both, or neither.
participants’ preferences in our study were guided by
the perceived beneﬁts and harms.
4.3 Factors that Aﬀect Users’ Preferences
In Sections 4.1 and 4.2 we described participants’ gen-
eral attitudes toward tracking, the outcomes they per-
ceived tracking to have, and how these made them more
or less comfortable with tracking. In this section, we
examine how users decide, when considering visits to
speciﬁc web pages or speciﬁc pairs of pages, whether
they are comfortable with tracking. We ﬁnd that spe-
ciﬁc properties of websites, including their topics and
the types of information they have about users, as well
as speciﬁc properties of trackers, inﬂuence which out-
comes users will perceive, whether they perceive these
outcomes as positive or negative, and consequently in-
ﬂuence their comfort with being tracked. We generally
ﬁnd that these situational factors frequently lead users
to have diﬀerent preferences about speciﬁc instances of
tracking than suggested by their general attitudes.
We ﬁnd that some of the speciﬁc factors that in-
ﬂuenced participants’ preferences about online track-
ing are related to the information being tracked, such
as whether it was considered personal; others involved
non-informational properties, such as trust, awareness,
and consent. A summary of these situational factors and
their frequency is shown in Table 2.
4.3.1 Factors Related to Information Tracked
Personal info Nearly all participants (97%) expressed
that they were less comfortable when personal infor-
mation was tracked. Although participants’ responses
varied when we asked what they meant by “personal
information,” they typically listed some combination of
informationthatcoulduniquelyornearlyuniquelyiden-
tify them, including email address, location information
(e.g., physical address or more detailed data), and their

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 145
Factor
Eﬀect
1st pty #
3rd pty #
Overall #Why
Has personal info − 27 31 34 More invasive, perceived as more risky
Has social info +/ − 7 14 18 Opportunity for customization, but also privacy invasive, and others
might see information about the user
Has search info +/− 14 14 18 Opportunities for customization, but also “tracking bubble” eﬀect, and
reveals other information, speciﬁc searches are sometimes private
Has correspondence − 7 16 18 Private info disclosed
Has ﬁnancial or health info − 4 10 11 More opportunity for price discrimination; privacy sensitive
Has shopping info +/ − 8 7 10 Better customization and prices, shopping recommendations, but
chances for mistargeted ads, distracting or unwanted ads
Has education info +/− 7 5 11 Innocuous info to some, not to others
Informational propertiesNo volunteered info on site + 6 4 9 No apparent harms
Sharing with other1st parties − 0 26 26 More opportunity for data aggregation
Trust + 11 8 13 Less chance of bad invisible and visible eﬀects
Lack of consent − 6 11 14 Less transparency into invisible eﬀects, no chance to limit bad eﬀects
Lack of awareness − 2 8 8 Less transparency into invisible eﬀects
Sites infrequently visited +/− 5 6 9 Infrequently visited sites don’t reveal lots of information, but can mis-
represent user’s preferences for ads and customization
Non-info. propertiesSites frequently visited +/ − 2 4 5 Frequently visited sites represent interests for customization and ads
better, but might learn a lot of information about the user
Table 2.Description of situational factors. “Eﬀect” shows whether this factor has a positive or negative eﬀect on tracking preference.
“Overall #” shows how many participants mentioned this factor. “1st pty” and “3rd pty” shows how many participants mentioned this
factor as mattering in ﬁrst-party and third-party tracking situations.
full name (for some people). Participants often felt that
trackers knowing their personal information was an in-
vasion of privacy and that it resulted in a greater po-
tential for harm.
Searchinfo Slightlyoverhalfofparticipants(51%)felt
that information about their general searching activi-
ties, for example on Google or Yahoo, impacts their feel-
ings about tracking. Participants felt that being tracked
on search websites was potentially beneﬁcial in 36% of
situations where this was a factor. At the same time,
they also expressed concern about the level of detail
that some searches can provide in 63% of situations
where this was a factor. Participants found these sit-
uations to be conﬂicting: on one hand, tracking search
information can help save time by identifying popular
web sites; on the other hand, it might reveal informa-
tion about the user. In addition to information about
general interests, participants were concerned that some
searches might reveal information like the participant’s
address from map searches, or clues about that partic-
ipant’s social circle. P30, for example, was concerned
that Google might know her address based on her his-
tory of searching for directions on Google Maps.
Correspondence Abouthalfofparticipants(51%)felt
that their private communications and correspondence
with others should not be tracked for any reason. This
included their emails in online email interfaces, private
chat logs, and private messages on other sites. Partic-
ipants did not feel this way about public communica-
tions, for example, a public post on Facebook, which
they felt was appropriate to track because there is no
expectation of privacy.
No volunteered info Roughly half of participants
(51%) were asked about at least one site for which they
expressed they were comfortable with being tracked be-
cause they felt the site had no information or inaccurate
information about them. Many (26%) felt this way in
situations in which they did not volunteer any informa-
tion to the website. Participants generally thought that
sites on which they did not speciﬁcally enter informa-
tion revealed nothing about them. While participants
felt comfortable in these situations, some expressed that
they did not know how tracking those visits would be
useful to trackers.
Social info Approximately half of participants (51%)
felt that tracking social information, such as the identity

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 146
of a user’s friends and family, aﬀected their privacy pref-
erences. In 88% of cases where participants mentioned
social information, it made them more uncomfortable.
P30 was concerned that her information from Face-
book might be used to advertise products from Macy’s;
she found this uncomfortable. Participants were worried
that this information might be used to target products
to them or to their friends. However, sometimes par-
ticipants thought there could be a speciﬁc customiza-
tion beneﬁt to this. P18, for example, thought that the
website LinkedIn might use third-party information to
customize the website by showing him more articles for
companies he is interested in.
Financial and health info Slightly less than one
third of participants (29%) felt that information about
ﬁnances or health, for example, information from
ﬁnancial-service sites like banks or online payment sites
(e.g.,Paypal),wasparticularlysensitiveandhadgreater
potential for misuse. Participants were sometimes un-
sure why they felt this way, but a few participants be-
lieved that they might be the target of price discrimina-
tion when determining loans or rates. P26 thought that
she would be very uncomfortableif atracker learnedany
of her ﬁnancial information from the TurboTax website
that she uses to do her taxes. Even for the purpose of
targeting ads, these participants felt that using income
information about their purchase history was not appro-
priate. This situational factor was most often voiced as a
concern in third-party tracking situations. As shown in
Figure 4, this suggests that third-party tracking is par-
ticularly unpleasant when it involves tracking sensitive
information.
Shoppinginfo Aboutathirdofparticipants(29%)felt
that a tracker learning information about their shopping
habits aﬀected their preferences. Participants were for
the most part comfortable with tracking on shopping
websites; in 73% of the cases where shopping informa-
tion aﬀected their opinions, it made them more comfort-
able with tracking. Indeed, participants felt that such
tracking would be beneﬁcial to them when ﬁnding new
products or new sales. However, there are also occa-
sions where this tracking information would make par-
ticipants feel less comfortable. In these situations, par-
ticipants felt that there was greater potential for price
discrimination or that this data might manipulate their
behavior, causing them to spend more money.
Educational info Almost a third of participants
(31%) felt that educational information was appropri-
ate to track both by ﬁrst parties and third parties.
While participants did not see a particular beneﬁt to
this tracking, they also felt that such information was
“already out there” or not harmful. Sites related to ed-
ucation, such as a school’s web page, were often seen as
trustworthy.
4.3.2 Factors Not Related to Information Tracked
Participants’ comfort with tracking was often informed
by factors such as trust in the tracking party or whether
they had consented to tracking by that particular party.
Trust About a third of participants (37%) described
their trust in the tracking party as aﬀecting how they
feel about tracking. This might be a ﬁrst-party or third-
party tracker. Participants used “trust” to indicate that
they trusted a tracking party to use information ap-
propriately and safely. Trust was occasionally impor-
tant even when tracking relatively unimportant data
about the participant. Participants were more comfort-
able with tracking when they trusted the website, and
more uncertain when they did not. Participants de-
scribed trust as a company having a “big name,” or
even in some cases if they personally knew the owners
of the website.
When asked about a website he says he does not
visit frequently, P28 expressed concern that he did not
know if the site was ethical or would handle his data
ethically. For him and other users, trust was linked to
the frequency of visits to a site. In counterpoint, P29
expressed distrust of Google, whose website she visits
frequently.
Awareness and consent Many participants stated
that their decisions would depend on whether they were
aware (23%) or consented (40%) to a tracker collecting
information about them. While participants also some-
times stated that they were unlikely to read or under-
stand EULAs or “legalese,” they also felt that other,
more reasonable means for promoting awareness and
consent could be used. Participants voiced these con-
cerns primarily in the context of third-party tracking.
Visit frequency A few participants (14%) expressed
that the frequency with which they visit a website could
be used as a proxy for whether their visits should be
tracked. Some participants preferred for visits to infre-
quently visited websites not to be tracked. This is be-
cause they may have gotten there from a search or did
not know what the website was about before visiting it.
They felt that websites they visit infrequently do not

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 147
accurately reﬂect their preferences for either ads or cus-
tomization, whereas websites they frequently visit do
accurately capture such preferences. In addition, par-
ticipants thought websites they frequented deserved to
get more revenue from advertising. P20, for example,
said he would be comfortable with tracking that takes
place only on websites that he frequently visits. Inter-
estingly, a few participants (26%) felt that they were
more comfortable with tracking on sites they visit infre-
quently.Participantsbelievedthesesiteswouldhaveless
information about them, and that they would have less
exposure to harmful eﬀects of tracking on these sites.
5 Controlling Tracking
In this section, we evaluate current tools to control
tracking in light of our ﬁndings. We also propose new
ways to leverage situational factors to ameliorate harms
of tracking while allowing beneﬁts, and describe an ini-
tial exploration of a classiﬁer that could be used to help
automate the implementation of tracking preferences.
5.1 Current Tools to Limit Tracking
Current tools to limit tracking are technically capable of
preventing any speciﬁc instance of (cookie-based) track-
ing. However, users rarely install or correctly conﬁgure
tools, often due to usability problems [26]. Indeed, six
of our participants volunteered that they did not trust
the eﬀectiveness of such tools and three saw these tools
as requiring too much eﬀort to use. Eleven additional
participants felt generally resigned to tracking, feeling
that it was unavoidable or pointless to attempt to stop.
At the same time, all participants felt that there could
be beneﬁts to online tracking in certain situations.
We evaluated the following privacy tools and ap-
proaches: AdBlock, Ghostery, Blur, Lightbeam, browser
conﬁguration, and private browsing mode. In Ap-
pendix B we describe the criteria, derived from the re-
sults reported in Section 4, by which we judge whether a
tooliscapableofallowingorpreventingtrackingaccord-
ing to users’ preferences. We discuss how these criteria
apply to each of the privacy tools in Appendix B. The
evaluation of the ability of tools to address situational
factors is summarized in Table 3; their ability to con-
trol possible outcomes of tracking is shown in Table 5
(Appendix B).
Factor
AdBlock
Ghostery
Blur
Lightbeam
Browser Conﬁg.
Private Browsing
Trust #  # # # #
Lack of awareness     # #
Lack of consent # # # # # #
Sharing with 1st parties # # # # # #
Visit frequency # # # # # #
Has personal info # #  # # #
Has social info #  # # # #
Has search info # #  # # #
Has shopping info # # # # # #
Has ﬁnancial, health info# # # # # #
Has correspondence # # # # # #
No volunteered info # # # # # #
Table 3.Summary of tools’ ability to support situational factors
on which users base decisions about tracking. indicates that
a plugin or approach can account for diﬀerences in the factor;#
indicates that it cannot.
Almost none of the current tools give easy ways for
users to make privacy decisions based on preferences
that involve situational factors. Instead, many tools fo-
cus on preventing harmful outcomes of tracking. How-
ever, this often requires blocking a particular outcome
altogether, including the beneﬁcial aspects of such out-
comes. Some tools do not allow users to make ﬁne-
grained decisions about tracking. AdBlock, for example,
allowsuserstoblockads,whichlimitssomeharmfulout-
comes of tracking, but does not allow the user to easily
control blocking based on situational factors.
Other tools, notably Ghostery and Blur, allow a
high degree of conﬁguration, each capable of making
automated decisions based on situational factors on be-
half of the user. For example, Ghostery is capable of
making automated decisions about social information,
makes users aware of tracking, and provides users with
information about the trustworthiness of third parties.
Blur allows users to automate decisions to protect their
personal information and search information in addition
to making users more aware of tracking. Even so, many
of the situational factors exposed in these tools do not
align with our ﬁndings of what situational factors are
important to users.
We primarily consider the degree of conﬁgurability
that each plugin allows. There is a range of other trade-
oﬀs when designing privacy tools other than their degree
of conﬁgurability. For example, AdBlock Plus appeals

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 148
to some people primarily because it requires negligible
conﬁguration. Conversely, modifying browser settings to
limit tracking also appeals to many because it does not
require installing an addon. We do not address the us-
ability of these plugins, which certainly also plays a role
in meeting users’ needs.
5.2 Design Recommendations
Designers of tools to manage tracking should be aware
of the types of situational information that deﬁne pri-
vacy boundaries for users. In our study, we observed
that the tracked information, properties of websites be-
ing tracked, and properties of tracking parties all de-
ﬁned boundaries for our participants. We discuss the
extent to which these boundaries could be enforced by
diﬀerent means: Some boundaries, such as those that
depend on properties of information on tracked sites,
might be enforceable by a semi-automated user agent
or via interaction with users; others, such as requiring
more transparency, might require policy intervention.
Our goal is to identify opportunities for online privacy
tools to better enforce users’ preferences.
We make the following recommendations:
– Automate the detection and enforcement of the
most common preferences (e.g., those regarding per-
sonal information).
– Automated enforcement should take advantage of
additional contextual information.
– When an automated agent may not be able to en-
force preferences due to diverse or inconsistent pref-
erences, it should judiciously prompt the user for a
user-speciﬁc default.
– Provide methods for users to understand the eﬀect
online activities have on what information might be
inferred about them.
Boundaries that could potentially be automatically de-
tected by machine-learning tools include those deﬁned
by the type of information on the ﬁrst-party site, e.g.,
whether the site contains personal information, ﬁnancial
or health information, and correspondence. For exam-
ple, all our participants but one were concerned about a
website learning personal information about them with-
out them knowingly providing it. To address this con-
cern, tools could detect when users enter their personal
information into a web form and prevent tracking by
sequestering cookies on that site from all other sites. It
may be possible to similarly detect the presence of other
information by using machine-learning tools which de-
tect the topic of a page, or by compiling a list of popular
pages and the information they contain.
Technical solutions are sometimes not suﬃcient to
mitigate all users’ concerns. For example, whether the
user has consented to tracking is diﬃcult for plugins or
browser-based solutions to detect. Similarly, our partic-
ipants often did not realize trackers could infer more
about users than was explicitly described in the tracked
web pages. In such situations, tools might focus on im-
proving user awareness and guiding users to manually
decide whether to permit the tracking.
Yet other situations may require regulatory inter-
vention. For example, neither a browser-based plugin
nor a user can determine which trackers share informa-
tion with which ﬁrst-party websites in the absence or
regulation to enforce and codify such relationships.
5.3 Comfort Prediction
In this section, we report on a preliminary examination
of the feasibility of developing an automated user-agent
that allows or blocks tracking based on the predicted
comfort of the user. Speciﬁcally, we explored the use of
several classiﬁers (including Asymmetric AdaBoost [42],
Support Vector Machines [18], and Generalized Linear
Mixed Eﬀects Regression [10]) to predict a user’s com-
fortwithtrackingofspeciﬁcpagevisitsbasedonproper-
ties of the web page and that user’s demographics and
general attitudes toward tracking; for brevity, we re-
port only on the performance of Asymmetric AdaBoost,
which performed best in our experiments.
We split our data (285 situations) into training and
testing sets, trained a classiﬁer on the training set, and
then measured its accuracy at predicting comfort on the
test set. Tracking situations in which participants are
“maybe” comfortable are treated as if participants were
uncomfortable, which is the conservative, safer option.
This prediction task is asymmetric: incorrectly pre-
dicting a user is comfortable with tracking when in fact
they are not is more harmful than incorrectly predict-
ing discomfort. Thus, we focus on reducing the more
harmful error at the expense of the overall error rate.
In training AdaBoost, we impose increased weights to
“uncomfortable tracking” situations in order to decrease
the false-positive rate (FPR), predicting an instance of
uncomfortable tracking as comfortable. In consequence,
the true-positive rate (TPR), correctly predicting an in-
stance of tracking as comfortable, also decreases.
Our data set contains more features than would be
easy to automatically detect (and hence base classiﬁca-

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 149
tion on) in practice, for example, whether the user ﬁnds
customization on websites beneﬁcial. In addition, some
features are impossible to measure with certainty, for in-
stance, whether a tracker aggregates information from
diﬀerent sources. Consequently, we categorize features
(independently by two researchers) into three overlap-
ping sets: features that can be easily estimated or mea-
sured automatically; a superset of the previous features
that also includes features that can be measured with a
larger eﬀort (e.g., by taking a crowdsourcing approach);
and the set of all features. We then measure the perfor-
manceofourclassiﬁerwitheachofthesesetsoffeatures.
Figure 6 summarizes the performance of our clas-
siﬁer. To estimate average performance, each curve is
computed by calculating the mean of results achieved
on 20 random splits of the data into training and testing
sets. Our results show that a user who wishes to auto-
matically block all uncomfortable tracking (0% FPR)
could simultaneously allow only 2-8% of the tracking
that she is comfortable with. On the other hand, a user
that is ready to permit tracking in a few situations in
which she might be uncomfortable can allow 48-60%
of the tracking she is comfortable with, while block-
ing over 90% of undesirable tracking. Interestingly, for
FPR lower than10%, the performance of the classiﬁer
that uses only the easily automatable features is just
slightly below the performance of the other classiﬁers.
This suggests that easily automatable features should
suﬃce for the implementation of a conservative classi-
ﬁer that blocks most of the undesired tracking while
allowing a signiﬁcant portion of “good” tracking.
We investigate not penalizing the classiﬁer for pre-
dictions made in “maybe” situations (i.e., when the par-
ticipant also wasn’t sure); this makes it possible to allow
over 60% of desirable tracking while incorrectly per-
mitting less than 5% of undesirable tracking (see Ap-
pendix C). We also examine the classiﬁer’s robustness
to feature selection and the importance of speciﬁc fea-
tures (also in Appendix C).
These results are preliminary and should be treated
as a proof of concept. Nevertheless, they strongly sug-
gest that automated tools that outperform current tools
in enabling users to enforce their tracking preferences
are an interesting direction of future research.
6 Conclusion
In this paper, we described the ﬁrst in-depth investi-
gation of users’ tracking preferences carried out in the
● ● ● ● ●●●● ● ●●●●●
●●
●●●●
●
●
●
●
●●
● ●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
● ●● ● ● ● ● ●● ●
●
●
●
●●
●●● ● ●●
●
●
●
●
●●
●
● ●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●●●● ● ●
●
●●
●
●●
●
●
● ●●● ● ●●●●●
●●
●●●
●
●
●
● ●
● ●●●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●●●● ● ● ● ●
● ●
●
●
●
●
●
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
% of bad tracking allowed
% of good tracking allowed
●
●
●
All features
Automatable easy
Automatable hard+easy
Fig. 6.ROC curves for predicting comfort
context of their own browsing histories, which we be-
lieve allowed us to more precisely capture participants’
concerns and comfort with tracking under speciﬁc cir-
cumstances than had previously been done. Using this
methodology we studied the interplay between partici-
pants’ general attitudes about tracking, the outcomes of
tracking they perceived in speciﬁc tracking situations,
and the situational factors that guide their comfort or
discomfort with speciﬁc instances of tracking.
Our examination both conﬁrmed existing and pro-
vided speciﬁc novel insights; e.g., that users are less
comfortable with the invisible outcomes of tracking
(price discrimination, revenue for web sites, etc.) than
with more noticeable outcomes (ads, customization,
etc.), and that users commonly base their tracking pref-
erences on speciﬁc properties of ﬁrst-party websites,
such as the topic of the site and frequency of visits.
In light of the perceived outcomes and the situa-
tional factors important to users, we examined a selec-
tion of current tracking tools, and found that they were
rarely able to account for the situational factors im-
portant to our participants. We identiﬁed design guide-
lines for future tools, and showed experimentally that
machine-learning tools can in many scenarios be an ef-
fective aid in implementing users’ preferences.
Acknowledgments
We would like to thank Samantha Gottlieb for her com-
ments on early drafts of this work. This research was
partially supported by NSF award CNS-1330596.

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 150
References
[1] Adblock plus. https://adblockplus.org/.
[2] Blur. http://www.abine.com/.
[3] Ghostery. https://www.ghostery.com/en/.
[4] Open directory project. http://www.dmoz.org. Accessed:
Nov, 2014.
[5] W3C Do Not Track Standard. http://www.w3.org/TR/
2015/WD-tracking-compliance-20150714/.
[6] Acceptable ads. https://acceptableads.org/, 2015.
[7] AAAA, ANA, BBB, DNA, and IAB. Self-regulatory prin-
ciples for online behavioral advertising. Digital Advertising
Alliance, July 2009.
[8] A. Acquisti. Privacy in electronic commerce and the eco-
nomics of immediate gratiﬁcation. InProc. EC. ACM, 2004.
[9] L. Awarwal, N. Shrivastava, S. Jaiswa, and S. Panjwani.
Do not embarrass: Re-examining user concerns for online
tracking and advertising. InProc. SOUPS, 2013.
[10] D. Bates, M. Maechler, B. M. Bolker, and S. Walker. lme4:
Linear mixed-eﬀects models using eigen and s4, 2014. ArXiv
e-print; submitted toJournal of Statistical Software.
[11] R. F. Baumeister, E. Bratslavsky, C. Finkenauer, and K. D.
Vohs. Bad is stronger than good.Review of general psychol-
ogy, 5(4):323, 2001.
[12] H. Beales. The value of behavioral targeting.Network
Advertising Initiative, 2010.
[13] B. Berendt, O. Günther, and S. Spiekermann. Privacy in
e-commerce: stated preferences vs. actual behavior.Commu-
nications of the ACM, 48(4):101–106, 2005.
[14] M. Bilenko, M. Richardson, and J. Y. Tsai. Targeted, not
tracked: Client-side solutions for privacy-friendly behavioral
advertising. In HotPETs, 2011.
[15] I. A. Bureau. IAB internet advertising revenue report, Apr.
2015.
[16] R. Calo. Digital market manipulation.George Washington
Law Review, 2013.
[17] F. Chanchary and S. Chiasson. User perceptions of sharing,
advertising, and tracking. InProc. SOUPS, 2015.
[18] C. Cortes and V. Vapnik. Support-vector networks.Machine
Learning, 20(3), 1995.
[19] A. Datta, M. C. Tschantz, and A. Datta. Automated experi-
ments on ad privacy settings. InProc. PETS, 2015.
[20] A. Farahat and M. C. Bailey. How eﬀective is targeted
advertising? In Proc. WWW, 2012.
[21] M. Fredrikson and B. Livshits. Repriv: Re-imagining content
personalization and in-browser privacy. InIEEE S&P, 2011.
[22] S. Greengard. Advertising gets personal.Communications of
the ACM, 2012.
[23] S. Guha, A. Reznichenko, K. Tang, H. Haddadi, and
P. Francis. Serving ads from localhost for performance,
privacy, and proﬁt. InHotNets, 2009.
[24] A. N. Joinson, U.-D. Reips, T. Buchanan, and C. B. P.
Schoﬁeld. Privacy, trust, and self-disclosure online.Human–
Computer Interaction, 25(1):1–24, 2010.
[25] A. Lambrecht and C. Tucker. When does retargeting work?
Information speciﬁcity in online advertising.Journal of
Marketing Research, 2013.
[26] P. Leon, B. Ur, R. Shay, Y. Wang, R. Balebako, and L. Cra-
nor. Why Johnny can’t opt out: A usability evaluation of
tools to limit online behavioral advertising. InProc. CHI,
2012.
[27] P. G. Leon, B. Ur, Y. Wang, M. Sleeper, R. Balebako,
R. Shay, L. Bauer, M. Christodorescu, and L. F. Cranor.
What matters to users?: Factors that aﬀect users’ willing-
ness to share information with online advertisers. InProc.
SOUPS, 2013.
[28] M. Malheiros, S. Brostoﬀ, C. Jennett, and M. A. Sasse.
Would you sell your mother’s data? personal data disclosure
in a simulated credit card application. InWEIS. 2012.
[29] M. Malheiros, S. Preibusch, and M. A. Sasse. "Fairly truth-
ful": The impact of perceived eﬀort, fairness, relevance, and
sensitivity on personal data disclosure. InTRUST. 2013.
[30] K. Martin. Addressing privacy online—Initial analysis and
draft ﬁndings. Unpublished research presentation, 2014.
[31] S. Panjwani, N. Shrivastava, S. Shukla, and S. Jaiswal. Un-
derstanding the privacy-personalization dilemma for web
search: a user perspective. InProc. CHI, 2013.
[32] K. Purcell, J. Brenner, and L. Rainie. Search engine use
2012. Technical report, 2012.
[33] E. J. Rader. Awareness of behavioral tracking and infor-
mation privacy concern in Facebook and Google. InProc.
SOUPS, 2014.
[34] F. Roesner, T. Kohno, and D. Wetherall. Detecting and
defending against third-party tracking on the web. InProc.
NSDI, 2012.
[35] F. Roesner, C. Rovillos, T. Kohno, and D. Wetherall. Bal-
ancing privacy and functionality of third-party social wid-
gets. USENIX Magazine, 2012.
[36] V. Toubiana, A. Narayanan, D. Boneh, H. Nissenbaum, and
S. Barocas. Adnostic: Privacy preserving targeted advertis-
ing. In Proc. NDSS, 2010.
[37] H. Treiblmaier and I. Pollach. Users’ perceptions of beneﬁts
and costs of personalization. InProc. ICIS, 2007.
[38] C. Tucker. Social advertising. SSRN eLibrary, 2012. http:
//ssrn.com/abstract=1975897.
[39] J. Turow. The daily you: How the new advertising industry
is deﬁning your identity and your worth. Yale University
Press, 2012.
[40] J. Turow, J. King, C. J. Hoofnagle, A. Bleakley, and
M. Hennessy. Americans reject tailored advertising and
three activities that enable it.SSRN, 2009.
[41] B. Ur, P. G. Leon, L. F. Cranor, R. Shay, and Y. Wang.
Smart, useful, scary, creepy: Perceptions of online behavioral
advertising. In Proc. SOUPS, 2012.
[42] P. A. Viola and M. J. Jones. Fast and robust classiﬁcation
using Asymmetric AdaBoost and a detector cascade. In
NIPS, 2001.
[43] C. E. Wills and M. Zeljkovic. A personalized approach to
web privacy: Awareness, attitudes and actions.Information
Management & Computer Security, 2011.
[44] C. Wilson. If you use a Mac or an Android, e-commerce
sites may be charging you more, Nov. 2014. http://www.
washingtonpost.com/posteverything/wp/2014/11/03/if-
you-use-a-mac-or-an-android-e-commerce-sites\-may-be-
charging-you-more/.
[45] D. A. A. with Zogby Analytics. Poll: Internet Users Rec-
ognize the Importance of Online Advertising and the
Value of Self-Regulation. http://www.aboutads.info/
ZogbyDAAOct13PollResults.pdf.

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 151
A Interview Script
I’d like to record this interview, may I start now? Today
we will talk about online tracking. Before we start, I
want you to know that we will be asking you questions
about your personal preferences. We are only interested
in your opinions, we are not testing your knowledge.
1. Have you heard of the terms “online tracking?”
(a) If heard of online tracking What does online
tracking mean to you?
(b) If heard of online trackingWhat beneﬁts can
online tracking oﬀer you?
(c) If heard of online trackingWhat harms can on-
line tracking cause to you?
(d) If heard of online trackingAre you aware of any
online tracking technique?
(e) If aware of techniques: Which online tracking
techniques are you aware of?
(f) If Not heard of online trackingWhat is the ﬁrst
thing that comes up to your mind when you
hear “online tracking?”
Article: I am going to let you read some information
about online tracking. Then I am going to ask you a few
questions to collect your opinion about it. Please note
that the questions are not intended to measure your
comprehension skills or memory. We are only interested
in your opinions about online tracking.[The text shown
to participants is in Section A.1]
1. What beneﬁts do you believe online tracking can
oﬀer to you?
2. What harms do you believe online tracking can
cause to you?
3. In general, how do you feel about being tracked on-
line? Why?
4. If negatively what would make you more comfort-
able with online tracking?
5. Can you think of any particular situations in which
being tracked would beneﬁt you?
6. Can you think of any particular circumstances in
which being tracked could cause harm to you?
7. Are you aware of any ways in which you can limit
online tracking?
8. Have you taken any actions to limit online tracking?
9. If yesWhen have you taken this action?
10. Imagine that you could specify how companies can
track the websites that you visit. Could you describe
how you would specify this?
11. Do you have any additional comments?
Single web page preferencesNext we will show you
some of the web pages you have visited over the past few
days, and we will ask you some questions about them.
For each of these web pages that you visited, I’m going
to ask you how you feel about tracking only on that
website.
[For the following questions, participants will be
shown only one web page they visited. ]
1. Do you remember visiting this page?
2. If NoMove on to next question
3. If YesWhat do you use this website for?
4. Would it be acceptable to you if this website collects
and aggregates your actions on this web page?
5. What beneﬁts can you think of from site X logging
and analyzing your visit to this web page?
6. What harms can you think of from site X logging
and analyzing your visit to this web page?
7. What do you think site X would learn from logging
and analyzing this visit?
8. If answers aﬃrmativelyHow do you feel about site
X learning that?
9. If answers aﬃrmativelyWith whom do you think
siteXcansharetheinformationitlearnsaboutyou?
10. For each piece of information the participant men-
tions How do you think site X could use this infor-
mation about you?
11. In general, How comfortable are you if site X tracks
your online activities? Why?
Pairs preferences[Web pages are referred to as pages
X and Y below.] Now I will show you two web pages that
you visited. Imagine that a tracking company is able to
know that you have visited both the ﬁrst and the second
web page. I will be asking you questions about your
preferences for tracking by a third party across these
two pages.
1. Do you remember visiting these pages?
2. If yesAre these pages related?
3. If yesHow are they related?
4. If NoSkip to the next question
5. How comfortable are you if the tracking company
tracksyouronlineactivitiesonthesetwowebpages?
Why?
6. What beneﬁts can you think of from the tracking
company knowing that you visited both of these two
web pages?
7. Possible follow up What beneﬁts can you think of
from the tracking company logging and analyzing
yourvisitstobothofthesetwowebpagesovertime?

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 152
8. What harms can you think of from the tracking
company knowing that you visited both of these two
web pages?
9. Possible follow up What harms can you think of
from the tracking company logging and analyzing
yourvisitstobothofthesetwowebpagesovertime?
10. What do you think this tracking company would
learn from your two web page visits?
11. Possible follow upHow do you feel about the third
partylearningthat(askthisforeachdatatypemen-
tioned before)?
12. How do you think this tracking company could use
this information about you (ask for each data type
mentioned above)?
13. What do you think would be appropriate for the
company to learn?
14. What do you think would be inappropriate for the
company to learn?
15. How would you feel if the tracking company shared
the information it learns from you with another
third-party?
16. How comfortable would you be if the tracking com-
pany shares this information with site X? Why?
17. How comfortable would you be if the tracking com-
pany shares this information with site Y? Why?
18. In general, how comfortable are you if the tracking
company tracks your online activities on these two
web pages? Why?
19. Do you have any other comments that you’d like to
share with us?
A.1 Information About Tracking
What is online tracking? Online tracking compa-
nies (a.k.a. online trackers) partner with websites to be
able to track the activities of visitors on those web-
sites. For example, a tracking company can know the
web pages a user visits on a website, what links a user
clicks on, how much time they spend on certain pages,
what search terms they type, etc. Generally speaking,
there are two types of online tracking. Tracking that is
contained within a given website and tracking that ex-
pands across diﬀerent websites. Online tracking is often
imperceptible to users because online trackers operate
“behind scenes” and there is normally no clear indica-
tion that trackers are present on websites.
What can be learned about users and how is
it used? In general, online trackers are interested in
learning users’ interests, preferences, demographics, on-
line habits, interactions with website features, purchas-
ing behaviors, and more. However, credit card numbers,
Social Security numbers, passwords, and other sensitive
personal information is normally out of reach of online
trackers. Information that online trackers collect and
aggregate may be used for diﬀerent purposes. The ulti-
mate use depends on who buys or otherwise can have
access to information collected from users and on the
intentions of the recipient.
Common uses include, but are not limited to:
– Analytics (e.g., understand how users interact with
the website, analysis of website traﬃc, types of vis-
itors, etc.)
– Personalized(a.k.a.targetedortailored)websitead-
vertising
– Website customization (e.g., modifying the website
design for a speciﬁc user or for the general audience
of a website)
– Marketing (e.g., contacting a user to sell something
they previously showed interest in)
A.2 Website Selection
Sensitive topics were deﬁned as those which deal with
ﬁnancial services, medicine, health, ﬁle sharing, insur-
ance or employment. This was chosen based on prior re-
search[30],andbasedonapilotstudywhichfoundthese
types of sites to be particularly sensitive. Insensitive
topics were any topics not ﬁtting these criteria. Search
websites were: google.com, bing.com, and yahoo.com.
Shopping websites included any category from the open
directorythatincludesshopping.Socialnetworkingsites
were: facebook.com, twitter.com, linkedin.com, or web-
sites whose topic in the open directory includeOnline
Communities. Two websites were considered close in
time if they were visited less than 30 minutes apart. Two
websites were considered far away in time if they were
visited more than 2 days apart. Single websites were
selected such that no website was repeated in the ﬁrst-
party tracking section of the interview. Pairs of websites
were selected such that no pair contained the same two
websites. In addition, websites that satisﬁed one situa-
tion, would not be chosen for satisfying a diﬀerent situ-
ation.

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 153
1st party
1 Insensitive
2 Shopping
3 Search engines
4 Sensitive
3rd party
5 Two insensitive sites
6 Shopping site and insensitive site
7 Search engine and insensitive site
8 Social networking site and insensitive site
9 Two sensitive sites
10 Two sites visited close together in time
11 Two sites visited far away in time
Table 4.Criteria to select websites for the interviews.
B Plugin Evaluation
Evaluation Criteria Using data from our interviews,
we focus on the ability of tools to help users make deci-
sions based on situational factors and address the per-
ceived outcomes of tracking.
Tools were marked as accounting for a situational
factor if the tool has a control to toggle tracking based
on that factor. Even though some tools in theory allow
the user to perfectly control the tracking of, e.g., their
search information if they use private browsing mode on
every search, this would take a large amount of eﬀort
for users and they would likely be prone to neglecting to
do this. When a tool can account for a situational factor
only using such methods, we do not consider it to suc-
cessfully account for that factor. We examine whether
tools are able to account for the following situational
factors based on our interviews.
– Informational properties—Can a tool be conﬁg-
ured to control tracking based on the type of in-
formation on the site (e.g., some tools can turn oﬀ
tracking on search engines)?
– Search—Can a tool block tracking speciﬁcally for
search activities?
– Has Correspondence—Can a tool block tracking
ofthe contentsofusers’ email,instantmessages,etc.
– Lack of awareness—Does a tool help make a user
aware of tracking?
– Trust—Does a tool help the user decide whether a
tracker can be trusted?
We also examine whether tools are able to prevent
harms due to speciﬁc outcomes.
– Targeted ads—Tools were counted as addressing
this outcome if they blocked any of the harmful
aspects of advertising that participants listed (i.e.,
other people might see, they are annoying if repeti-
tive).
– Price discrimination —This outcome was ad-
dressed by no tool, since the information used to
change pricing could be revealed by any page visit
(e.g., by the users’ device) [44].
– Customization—Tools satisﬁed this requirement
if they were able to limit the harms of customiza-
tion independently of preventing other (potentially
beneﬁcial) outcomes.
– Negative feeling—We believed all tools might
make the user feel as if they had more control over
tracking.
– Revenue—Tools were counted if they were capable
of disabling advertisements altogether; we do not
consider tools that might indirectly aﬀect company
revenue by decreasing the value of a particular vis-
itor’s advertising proﬁle to advertisers.
– Persecution—No tools seemed capable of limiting
persecution by the government.
– Linked—We count any tool that is capable of lim-
iting the ability of third parties to link information
to the user as satisfying this requirement.
Tools and Evaluation We chose the following tools
to balance both popular tools and those oﬀering unique
features to limit tracking. While this is not a complete
list of such tools, we believe it captures a range of dif-
ferent features and approaches to specifying preferences
for limiting tracking.
AdBlock is a plugin that blocks ads based on precon-
ﬁgured lists that identify advertisements on web pages.
AdBlock was not counted as supporting any situational
factor because of its inability to allow users to conﬁgure
tracking beyond a per-website basis. However, it does
limit the harms people associate with targeted adver-
tisements by blocking all ads.
Ghostery is a plugin that shows users which trackers
are on a website and provides information about these
trackers to help users decide whether to trust them.
Users can conﬁgure the Ghostery plugin to block all or
speciﬁc third parties or allow (but not block) all track-
ing on a particular ﬁrst-party website. In addition, users
are able to make decisions about particular kinds of
trackers (e.g., advertising, analytics, beacons, privacy,
or widgets).
Blur is a plugin that blocks third-party tracking, simi-
lar to AdBlock. It uses an indicator to alert users when
third-party tracking occurs. It also allows users to limit
tracking during web searches. Blur allows users to au-

(Do Not) Track Me Sometimes: Users’ Contextual Preferences for Web Tracking 154
Outcome
AdBlock
Ghostery
Blur
Lightbeam
Browser Conﬁg.
Private Browsing
Ads G # G # G # G # G # G #
Price # # # # # #
Customization # G # # # # G #
Feel “stalked”      
Revenue G # G # G # G # # #
Persecution # # # # # #
Linked #   # #  
Table 5.The extent to which diﬀerent plugins are capable of
ameliorating the outcomes that concern users. indicates that
the plugin is fully capable of ameliorating the harms of this out-
come and allowing beneﬁts if conﬁgured to the users’ wishes.
# indicates that the plugin is unable to do this.G #indicates that
the plugin is able to ameliorate the harms but not also allowing
beneﬁts.
tomatically “mask” some types of personal information,
such as their email address or phone number.
Lightbeam is a plugin for the Firefox browser that
shows how ﬁrst-party websites are linked to third-party
trackers. It seeks to provide transparency into how web-
sites are tracked, and focuses on showing these links to
users rather than controlling the tracking that does hap-
pen. Users are limited to blocking tracking globally, on
speciﬁc ﬁrst parties, or by speciﬁc third parties.
Browser conﬁgurationMost web browsers give users
the option of blocking all third-party cookies via prefer-
ence conﬁguration. Browser conﬁguration is capable of
limiting the potential for data aggregation, but is not
situationally conﬁgurable except through manual inter-
vention, which it is not designed for.
Private browsing modecan allow users a high degree
of situational avoidance of cookie-based tracking. How-
ever, many users might forget to use private browsing
mode, or later wish that they had used it.
C Revisiting Comfort Prediction
A Diﬀerent Perspective, Maybe?In Section 5.3
we showed a proof of concept for classiﬁers that predict
the comfort of our participants in diﬀerent tracking sit-
uations. There, we conservatively treated situations in
which participants were “maybe” comfortable as situa-
Fig. 7.ROC curves for predicting comfort.
tions in which they were not (i.e., if the classiﬁer pre-
dicted that users were comfortable, we counted this as
incorrect). If we focus on the arguably more important
web page visits for which users had deﬁnitive opinions,
excluding “maybes” from testing, the classiﬁer performs
better, as shown in Figure 7.
Important Features To examine which of the fea-
tures are most important for predicting user comfort,
we ran a forward feature selection process with20 ran-
dom splits into validation and training sets. The top
eight features are shown below, along with the aver-
age accuracy for predicting comfort using that and all
higher-ranked features. The classiﬁer performs very well
even in the absence of the top eight features, achieving
78.57% accuracy with the remaining automateable fea-
tures.
1. Participant’s identity; one of 35 possibilities
(67.14%).
2. Website type(s); one of 11 options as shown in Ta-
ble 4 (71.96%).
3. “Has ﬁnancial info”: whether the participant is
concerned about her ﬁnancial info being tracked
(73.75%).
4. Whether the frequency of visit to the website(s)
matters to the participant (74.64%).
5. “Has search info”1 (75.54%).
6. “Has correspondence info”1 (76.79%).
7. “Has shopping info”1.
“Has social info”1 (77.14%).2
1 Analogous to item 3.
2 Both factors needed to be added for classiﬁcation accuracy to
improve.