An empirical study of Namecoin
and lessons for decentralized namespace design
Harry Kalodner*, Miles Carlsten*, Paul Ellenbogen*, Joseph Bonneau†, Arvind Narayanan*
{kalodner, carlsten, pe5, arvindn} @cs.princeton.edu *
jbonneau@gmail.com†
Princeton University
Abstract
Secure decentralized namespaces have recently
become possible due to cryptocurrency technol-
ogy. They enable a censorship-resistant domain-
name system outside the control of any single
entity, among other applications. Namecoin, a
fork of Bitcoin, is the most prominent example.
We initiate the study of decentralized names-
paces and the market for names in such sys-
tems. Our extensive empirical analysis of
Namecoin reveals a system in disrepair. Indeed,
our methodology for detecting “squatted” and
otherwise inactive domains reveals that among
Namecoin’s roughly 120,000 registered domain
names, a mere 28 are not squatted and have non-
trivial content. Further, we develop techniques
for detecting transfers of domains in the Name-
coin block chain and provide evidence that the
market for domains is thin-to-nonexistent.
We argue that the state of the art in mecha-
nism design for decentralized namespace mar-
kets is lacking. We propose a model of utility
of different names to different participants, and
articulate desiderata of a decentralized names-
pace in terms of this utility function. We use
this model to explore the design space of mech-
anisms and analyze the trade-offs.
1 Introduction
Decentralized namespaces. We initiate the
study of decentralized namespaces from an eco-
nomic perspective. A namespace, as we deﬁne
it, is an online system that maps names to val-
ues. The Domain Name System (DNS) is the
most prominent example. A web service such
as Twitter that allows users to claim usernames
and create proﬁles can be thought of as imple-
menting a namespace. To be memorable by hu-
mans, namespaces must support arbitrary user-
chosen strings as names. To be secure, names-
paces must map each name to the same value
for all users and adversaries shouldn’t be able to
convince a user that any other value is correct.
The problem ofdecentralized namespaces has
long been recognized as an important one. The
DNS is a critical yet centralized component of
the Internet and those who control it can alter
the web for all users. The controversies around
the shutdowns of wikileaks.org and the
2011 domain name seizures by the U.S. DoJ
and DHS illustrate why many researchers and
activists have sought decentralized alternatives
[1].
The above three properties — security, user-
chosen names, and decentralization — are
known as Zooko’s triangle [2]. Until 2011, de-
signing a system that exhibited all three was
conjectured to be impossible [3]. The rationale
was that enforcing the uniqueness of name-value
1

mappings and a consistent view of the directory
for all participants would require a centralized
server or a hierarchy.
Cryptocurrencies and Namecoin. Cryp-
tocurrency technology enables building a
namespace with all three properties. Put simply,
the block chain is a global, distributed data
structure that can be repurposed as a directory.
Miners execute a consensus protocol to estab-
lish the state of the system and are incentivized
to do so by mining rewards they receive in
exchange for their participation. As long as a
majority of miners — weighted by computing
power — follow the protocol, all users will see
a consistent view of the directory when they
query it. This in turn gives the system, and
hence the underlying currency, economic value,
making miners’ actions proﬁtable to them.
Namecoin is a cryptocurrency that realizes a
decentralized namespace. It is the ﬁrst altcoin
from Bitcoin with its own block chain. It offers
the same features as Bitcoin with the addition of
a name/value store that can be used to hold arbi-
trary data (see Section 2). The name/value store
supports various applications; primarily, Name-
coin has been used for domain-name resolution
for the ‘.bit’ alternative TLD, and by the online
identity service, OneName, which utilizes the
Namecoin block chain to record data about its
members.
Namecoin offers a novel solution to the
technical challenges of decentralized names-
paces. However, there are also economic chal-
lenges. These arise from the fact that even
though namespaces theoretically support an in-
ﬁnite number of names, the supply of names
that are memorable and meaningful to humans is
scarce. Allocating these names to users is there-
fore a mechanism-design challenge. The central
thesis of this work is that this mechanism design
challenge is far harder than realized. A system
that gets it wrong may “work" in a narrow tech-
nical sense, but may not be useful to real users.
Speciﬁcally, there are several crucial ques-
tions to consider: how do we model the eco-
nomic behavior of the users of a namespace
and what are the goals of mechanism design for
namespaces? How well does Namecoin succeed
at attaining these goals and what are its limita-
tions? If Namecoin is not the ideal design, can
we analyze the design space as a guide to the
creators of future decentralized namespaces?
Our contributions. Along the above lines,
we make the following contributions. We be-
gin by proposing a model of utility of differ-
ent names to different participants and articu-
lating desiderata of a decentralized namespace
in terms of this utility function (Section 3).
We highlight the difﬁculty of mechanism design
even in a toy model and explain the importance
of making the model more realistic by incorpo-
rating extensions such as time-varying prefer-
ences.
The central contribution of this paper is a
thorough empirical analysis of the Namecoin
ecosystem. We develop a series of criteria based
on the block chain, network behavior, as well
as content to distinguish active websites from
parked or squatted names (Section 4). This al-
lows us to iteratively ﬁlter our dataset of around
120,000 registered names in Namecoin, leaving
a mere 28 that are not squatted, and have non-
trivial content.
We then delve deeper into the economics of
names. Namecoin has a built-in ability to trans-
fer names, which is a secure way to trade them
using the block chain. However, it is not obvi-
ous which transactions correspond to such sales,
as opposed to regular name updates. We develop
a novel analytic technique to distinguish the two
types of transactions and ﬁnd evidence for about
250 transactions in the entire history of Name-
coin that may represent sales of names (Section
5). Of course, it is possible that more sales have
occurred off the block chain, but there doesn’t
appear to be a widely known marketplace for
Namecoin names.
Based on all the empirical evidence we
present, we are left to conclude that the Name-
coin ecosystem is dysfunctional. The vast ma-
jority of registered names represent squatting
and there is little evidence of a secondary mar-
2

ket for names. While there could be many fac-
tors that explain the lack of adoption, there ap-
pears to be clear room for improvements in the
design to minimize squatting and other prob-
lems. To this end, in Section 6, we explore the
design space of decentralized namespaces and
make recommendations.
Why study namespaces? Although we ﬁnd
that the Namecoin ecosystem is in disrepair,
studying namespaces is important. While there
currently doesn’t seem to be widespread dissat-
isfaction with today’s DNS causing users to seek
censorship-resistant alternatives, the existence
of such alternatives provides a valuable hedge
against a potentially abusive central authority.
Besides, domain names are just one application
of namespaces. Centralized directories for user
public keys have fared much less well than DNS,
and the service OneName, which we discuss
in Section 8, is an interesting alternative. And
of course, the problems posed by namespaces
are intellectually interesting to study. We think
decentralized namespaces have many important
applications, but their promise hasn’t been real-
ized so far. Our work helps understand why this
might be and lays the groundwork for a more
rigorous approach to building such systems.
2 Background: Namecoin
In this section we cover the background of
Namecoin. We begin by looking at the history of
the cryptocurrency and then explain why a block
chain can be used for our deﬁnition of a names-
pace. We then proceed to discuss the technical
design of Namecoin and the mechanisms used
in the design. We conclude this section with a
discussion about the applications of Namecoin.
A note about the term ‘namespace’. In
computer science, a namespace is simply a con-
tainer for a set of names, so that names in a
single namespace must be unique but the same
name can exist in different namespaces. We
have chosen to use the term in a related but
different way: it’s a system that includes client
and server software, users, a mechanism, and so
on. In fact, Namecoin contains namespaces in
the computer science sense, which we term sub-
spaces in this paper.
2.1 History
Namecoin is an alternative cryptocurrency, or
altcoin, modeled after Bitcoin [4]. Furthermore,
it is the ﬁrst altcoin in the sense that it was
the ﬁrst to create its own block chain, sepa-
rate from Bitcoin’s. Namecoin shares many
similarities with Bitcoin, including the same
method for proof-of-work, the same coin cap,
the same block creation time, and all of the same
transaction operations (with a few additions).
Namecoin was inspired after discussions about
a BitDNS [5] protocol using a block chain to
manage a domain name lookup service. The
motivation was that a central authority manag-
ing domain names, such as ICANN, requires too
much trust in a single entity and represents a sin-
gle point of failure. The ﬁrst Namecoin block
was mined in April 2011, and as of this writing,
over 215,000 total blocks have been mined in
the Namecoin system. Because of its similarities
with Bitcoin, Namecoin was able to be merge-
mined and has been merge-mined with Bitcoin
since October 8, 2011 (see the next subsection).
2.2 Description of the block chain
Namecoin is minted and maintained by a decen-
tralized peer-to-peer network.1 Namecoin trans-
actions require the digital signature of the ac-
count holder to prevent theft, and every transac-
tion is published in an append-only hash chain,
called the block chain. The block chain can
be extended with new transactions by any par-
ticipant, and such participants (known as min-
ers) obtain newly minted Namecoin currency
(NMC) and transaction fees from the transac-
tions for performing this function. Extensions
to the block chain require a proof-of-work that
1This description is adapted from [6].
3

rate-limits the process (to approximately one
extension every ten minutes) which enables a
steady inﬂation rate, ample competition among
participants to extend the block chain, and ade-
quate time to obtain and verify the history of the
block chain for new participants. Informally, the
proof-of-work protocol in Namecoin is intended
to maintain the following two essential proper-
ties about the block chain:
• Every party eventually agrees on the order
and correctness of transactions in the block
chain.
• Any party can publish a transaction (for
a fee), which will then be veriﬁed and, if
valid, included in the block chain within a
small bounded delay.
One use case for a block chain is a tamper-
evident log. That is, it can be used as a data
structure that stores user-supplied data, and al-
lows users to append data to the end of the log.
Each new block has a hash of the previous block,
so if data that is earlier in the log is altered, it
will be detected. If an adversary wants to tam-
per with data anywhere in this entire chain, in
order to keep the hash pointers consistent, he
will have to tamper with the hash pointers all the
way up to and including the current block. Thus
it emerges that by just remembering the single
hash pointer of the head of the chain, users es-
sentially remember a tamper-evident hash of the
entire list, all the way back to the genesis block.
Namecoin, and all block chain based cryptocur-
rencies, use this tamper-evident log in order to
record all the transactions between users.
Block chain security. The value and sta-
bility of a cryptocurrency are directly related
to the amount of proof-of-work involved in the
calculations of the blocks because this work is
what keeps the data distributed and secure in the
tamper-evident block chain. For both Bitcoin
and Namecoin, the proof-of-work is shown by
calculating the hash of a new block and a ran-
dom nonce over and over until the calculated
hash has a certain number of leading zeros. The
number of leading zeros required by the hash is
referred to as the difﬁculty threshold. Name-
coin enjoys a very high difﬁculty threshold for
the proof-of-work because it is similar to Bit-
coin and supports “merge mining” with Bitcoin.
This means that miners who are mining Bitcoin
can also choose to mine Namecoin at the same
time with no extra work. Essentially, this is
because the miner is using their computational
power to solve a cryptographic puzzle that sat-
isﬁes the proof-of-work for both block chains at
the same time. This is advantageous for the min-
ers because they are rewarded with coins from
both systems, and helps Namecoin because it
gives the Namecoin network a vastly increased
amount of hash power over what it would have if
it did not support merged mining. Including the
merge miners, Namecoin has aproximately one
third the hash rate of Bitcoin. This provides re-
silience to a 51% attack, although a sufﬁciently
large Bitcoin mining pool could still execute this
attack.
2.3 Technical details of names
In this subsection and the next, we present de-
tails of Namecoin, separating the technical solu-
tion from the mechanism design choices.
The feature that separates Namecoin from
Bitcoin is that Namecoin is a namespace, and
can be used to register name/value pairs that can
be stored in the block chain and traded amongst
individuals. This registration is done using
the three script operations exclusive to Name-
coin: NAME_NEW, NAME_FIRSTUPDATE, and
NAME_UPDATE. In order to understand the
registration process, we think it is helpful to
walk through the registration process of name,
roughly following Figure 1.
NAME_NEW. To start, the user will need to
select a coin to be crafted into a token (or special
coin) that represents a name and whose value
can be changed by whoever possess the token.
The next step to register a name is to make a
transaction that uses theNAME_NEW script oper-
ation in a transaction sending the token from one
4

of their addresses to another. UsingNAME_NEW,
a user can indicate an interest in name for a
name/value pair by posting a hash commitment
of the desired name in the scriptPubKey of the
transaction. The reason the user posts the name
in hashed form ﬁrst, rather than in plaintext, is
to prevent front-running, which we will explain
in Section 6. The NAME_NEW operation acts as
a signal in the block chain for name parsers to
indicate that the next part of the scriptPubKey
will be the hash commitment to a name.
NAME_FIRSTUPDATE. After doing this,
and waiting for 12 or more blocks on top of the
one containing the NAME_NEW transaction (to
ensure that the block chain reaches consensus on
the NAME_NEW transaction), the same user can
use the output of the NAME_NEW transaction as
the input for the NAME_FIRSTUPDATE trans-
action. Once completed, this will associate the
chosen name with value selected by the user.
Similar to NAME_NEW, NAME_FIRSTUPDATE
allows data to be posted in the block chain as
part of the scriptPubKey of a special transaction.
To create a NAME_NEW transaction, a user will
select, as input, the output of the NAME_NEW
transaction. They will then use another address
they control as the output for the transaction.
The scriptPubKey of this transaction will con-
tain a NAME_FIRSTUPDATE, the name de-
sired, the random nonce used in the NAME_NEW
hash commitment, and the ﬁrst value for the
name to take. 2 In order for this transaction to
be valid, a miner will verify that the name and
the provided nonce do, in fact, hash to the com-
mitment in the appropriate NAME_NEW transac-
tion. The output of this transaction now contains
the token representing the name/value pair for
name and value, and whoever can unlock and
spend the output can utilize the ﬁnal new opera-
tion, NAME_UPDATE.
NAME_UPDATE. The third and ﬁnal new
operation in Namecoin is the NAME_UPDATE
operation. Again, this operation’s argu-
2There are also other operations that exist for reasons
of compatibility with Bitcoin; this seems to exist to mini-
mize changes to Bitcoin’s script handling code.
ments (the name and newValue) are stored
in the scriptPubKey of a special transac-
tion. This transaction must have as input
a NAME_FIRSTUPDATE or NAME_UPDATE
output with the same name. This operation
has three uses: updating, renewing and trad-
ing a name. If the user wants to change the
value associated with a given name, they will
update name with this operation, providing a
newValue. If names can expire, as they do in
Namecoin, then this operation can also be used
to renew a name by providing anewValue that
is the same as the old value. In either of these
cases, the user will use an address they control
as an output of the transaction. The ﬁnal reason
to make aNAME_UPDATE transaction is to trade
the special coin to another user. In this case, the
user will put, as an output, one of the other user’s
addresses instead of their own. Once the trans-
action resolves, the other user will have control
over the special coin and can change the value to
whatever they deem ﬁt. Because the ownership
of name is associated with the ownership of the
special coin, if the buyer is paying for the name
with Namecoins, the exchange between the pay-
ment and the name can be atomic (meaning they
happen in the same transaction and either are
only valid if the other is as well).
2.4 Mechanism design
Fees. Namecoin has been implemented with
various fees and protocols to incentivize the be-
haviors of the users. The special token used
in the NAME_NEW transaction has a value of
0.01 NMC. This coin will be not be spend-
able like other Namecoins while it has a
name attached to it. For all of the trans-
actions, NAME_NEW, NAME_FIRSTUPDATE,
and NAME_UPDATE, the default behaviour is
to have the user pay a transaction fee to the
miner. The current expected transaction fee,
which is programmed into the Namecoin client,
is 0.005 NMC on each transaction. Histori-
cally, Namecoin also had a network fee attached
to the NAME_FIRSTUPDATE transaction. The
5

Figure 1: Namecoin name registration protocol described in Section 2.3
network fee is different from the transaction
fee; the transaction fee is paid to the miners,
whereas the network fee was destroyed (with an
OP_RETURN) when a NAME_FIRSTUPDATE
transaction was conﬁrmed. The network fee var-
ied over time– it started at 50 NMC at the gen-
esis block, but decreased by a factor of 2 every
8192 blocks (which is approximately 2 months).
The purpose of the network fee was to have a
large initial cost to claiming names to deter users
from quickly claiming all the desirable names,
but then decay off so that eventually the cost
of registering a name becomes negligible. As
of block 85585, the network fee became small
enough that it rounds to 0 and is no longer added
onto the transaction. The current implemen-
tation of Namecoin has no fees other than the
transaction fees and the investment of the token
coin.
Expiration. Namecoin has an expiration
time for names. Originally, the time period
for a name to expire was 12,000 blocks, but
by March 2012, the expiration period was in-
creased to 36,000 blocks (which comes out to
about 250 days). If a particular name hasn’t
been mentioned in a NAME_FIRSTUPDATE or
NAME_UPDATE in 36,000 blocks, the name be-
comes available again for any user to claim
with NAME_NEW and NAME_FIRSTUPDATE.
Similarly, a NAME_UPDATE must cite a
NAME_FIRSTUPDATE or NAME_UPDATE that
is less than 36,000 blocks old as input.
Changing the protocol. Changing the pro-
tocol in a cryptocurrency requires a “hard fork”
or a “soft fork” depending on the extent of the
change. In a mature system like Bitcoin, this is
very difﬁcult. In a ﬂedgling system like Name-
coin, however, it is much easier has happened
multiple times. Both the addition of merge min-
ing with Bitcoin, and the increase in expira-
tion length were not initially in the design of
Namecoin and required hard-forking changes.
In order to make these changes, the Namecoin
community decided on arbitrary blocks at which
point the new protocol would be enforced. Ex-
plicitly, up to block 19,199 blocks that were
merge mined with Bitcoin were not allowed into
the Namceoin block chain, but starting on block
19,200 they were.
6

2.5 Applications
There are many different subspaces in Name-
coin, and the different subspaces correspond to
applications. When claiming a name, a user
prepends the name with a subspace ID and a
slash. Namecoin was created to be very general
so that it would be useful for any application that
would beneﬁt from an online name/value store.
While d/ has the most registered names, there
are many used subspaces in Namecoin. The sep-
aration of namespaces is not enforced by the
protocol in any way, but merely agreed upon by
consensus of all users, analogous to open web
standards.
.bit Domains. The vision for Namecoin was
to use one of these subspaces for DNS lookup
in the .bit TLD. Explicitly, Namecoin names as-
sociated with .bit domains are prepended with
the subspace ID d/. If a user wanted the do-
main example.bit, they would claim the name
d/example. The owner of example.bit would
then set the value to their server address in a way
that would be understood by .bit compliant DNS
servers as described in the .bit speciﬁcation [7].
Most major web servers, such as Apache,
ngnix, and lighthttpd will accept connections
through .bit domains with minor modiﬁcations
to their per-site conﬁguration ﬁles.
There are a number of ways to resolve .bit do-
mains to IP addresses with varying levels of se-
curity. The most secure option is running lo-
cal DNS resolution software. The three ma-
jor projects created for this purpose are NM-
Control [8], a local DNS server, FreeSpeechMe
[9], a Firefox add-on, and DNSChain [10],
another browser extension. NMControl and
FreeSpeechMe both hold a local copy of the
block chain and query it for values associated
with .bit domains. They parse the value of the
name using the speciﬁcation and seamlessly di-
rect the user to the resolved IP address.
There are a couple less secure options to ac-
cess .bit domains. Users can connect to speciﬁc
DNS servers such as OpenNic [11] which sup-
port resolving .bit domains. However this re-
quires trusting that the DNS server is working
properly and accurately reporting results. A ﬁ-
nal option is using a proxy server hosted in a
standard TLD. This requires no local conﬁgura-
tion, but users must go to example.bit by visiting
example.bitproxy.com.
OneName. The name/value data store in
Namecoin has applications beyond DNS. One-
Name is an online identity service that runs on
top of Namecoin, making use of the data store.
OneName is a centralized service, but one can
use other clients to interact with the block chain
in a way that’s interoperable with OneName.
The idea behind OneName is that a user can
have a name/value pair in the block chain that
associates said name with different online iden-
tities such as an email, GitHub, Twitter, and
Bitcoin address. A OneName user can then
conﬁrm ownership of accounts on any of these
services by referencing their OneName name
through some messaging channel in each re-
spective system. For example, if Alice wants to
tie her twitter username to her OneName user-
name, she must tweet the message “Verifying
that +Alice is my openname (my Bitcoin user-
name). https://onename.com/Alice”.
This is similar to the veriﬁcation scheme Key-
base [12] uses. A OneName account also has
an associated Bitcoin address so users can eas-
ily ﬁnd an address to use to send Bitcoins to a
particular individual, if they want.
In order to make a OneName identity, a user
can visit OneName’s website to create an ac-
count. A user makes an account by selecting
a username and then optionally entering in their
actual name, their account names, a short biog-
raphy and picture, and a Bitcoin address. One-
Name takes the information given to it and au-
tomatically puts it into a name/value pair, with
the name equal to the selected username, and
the value containing all the other data. If the
username is not already claimed by some user
in the Namecoin subspace u/, then OneName
posts this pair into the block chain. If it is al-
ready taken, the website will ask the new user to
select a different username. If a user so desires,
7

they can alternatively manually create a name
transaction using the Namecoin client to create
a name value pair with a name in the u/ sub-
space and a value formatted to match the One-
Name speciﬁcations. To incentivize using their
website interface, OneName covers the Name-
coin fees for their users.
3 Modeling namespaces
Names are scarce. Many types of systems map
keys or names to values. In his essay introducing
his triangle, Zooko considers naming systems
that include a system mapping PGP key ﬁnger-
prints to keys. Fingerprints are hashes of keys.
This would not qualify as a namespace by our
deﬁnition because users cannot pick arbitrary
names — that would require ﬁnding the hash
pre-image of an arbitrary name (ﬁngerprint), a
hard problem by the deﬁnition of a hash func-
tion. Zooko (and similar prior work) consid-
ers such systems to lack human memorability
of names. We replace this criterion with that of
user choice of names, which is roughly equiva-
lent but easy to deﬁne rigorously.
In a system that maps key ﬁngerprints to keys,
names are fungible and essentially inﬁnite, and
thus not scarce and have no market value. On
the other hand, in any system that we call a
namespace, scarcity is an almost inevitable con-
sequence of free user choice. Even when names
are scarce, the system architecture can make
names more or less valuable. For example, user-
names on Twitter are more valuable than on
Facebook — the username or handle is a rela-
tively important way to ﬁnd a user on Twitter,
whereas on Facebook it is done more often by
navigating the social graph.
The scarcity of names makes the design
of namespaces challenging. But it also
makes the problem particularly amenable to
cryptocurrency-based solutions. Since names
have market value, and participation in the pri-
mary market requires the associated cryptocur-
rency, the currency becomes valuable. This in-
centivizes miners, making the system secure.
The (non) role of trademarks. Scarcity is
also an issue in centralized namespaces, but it
manifests in different ways. One key goal of
most centralized systems is trademark protec-
tion. The trademark system can be seen as a le-
gal mechanism to address the problems of name
scarcity and limits of human memorability in the
real world, independent of any particular tech-
nological system. Most centralized systems sup-
port some form of arbitration or dispute resolu-
tion in which trademark plays a role. 3 In a de-
centralized system, on the other hand, there is
no easy way to enforce any rules that cannot be
encoded algorithmically. As of yet there is no
way to cryptographically assert that one is the
owner of a trademark, and this may be impossi-
ble given the complexity and nuance of modern
trademark law.
Primary and secondary markets, algorith-
mic agents. We use the term primary market to
mean the part of the market where new names
are issued to users for the ﬁrst time. By con-
trast, the secondary market deals with the sale
of a name already in use.
Whom do names “belong to” before they are
sold on the primary market? To answer this,
we must understand decentralized agents. Any
cryptocurrency can be thought of as an algorith-
mic agent executed as a global, distributed com-
putation. The agent has no capability to store
private information but it can hold funds and
transact with users of the system. Bitcoin en-
codes a very simple agent whose only function
is to release currency into circulation at a pre-
speciﬁed rate.4
In a nutshell, the agent implemented by a
namespace initially owns all names and sells
them to users. As we’ll see in Section 6, there
3For example see ICANN’s Uniform Domain-Name
Dispute-Resolution Policy [13].
4At the other extreme, altcoins such as Ethereum allow
any user to create an agent by making the central agent
“Turing complete,” that is, ﬂexible enough to execute ar-
bitrary programs speciﬁed by users on their behalf.
8

are many variants including whether names are
sold or leased, whether or not they can be bought
back, how names are priced, what the agent does
with the funds received as payment, and so on.
The most straightforward implementation of
a secondary market is to leave it entirely exter-
nal to the system. This is the approach taken
by Namecoin, but again, a variety of choices are
possible. We elaborate in Section 6.
Squatting. Even though names are scarce,
it’s not obvious what “squatting” means. Af-
ter all, material goods are scarce, but we don’t
usually characterize car owners as squatting on
them. The difference is that names have (vastly)
different utility to different users. A squatted
name is one that is owned by a user whose util-
ity for that name is close to zero (or very small
compared to the user who has the most utility
for that name), purchased in hopes of selling to
another user whose utility is higher.
Is squatting a problem for the system? This
is a tricky question. If squatting exists merely
because one side of the primary market is an al-
gorithm and doesn’t charge market price, then
squatters could be seen as analogous to brokers
or ticket scalpers. Such agents are sometimes
considered to perform a useful function as mar-
ket makers [14], or at least tolerated, but not
considered an existential threat to the function-
ing of the market.
On the other hand, squatters can be viewed as
analogous to land speculators. This analogy is
supported by the fact that names, like land but
unlike tickets, are not fungible. The speculator
may have zero utility for a name and makes no
use of the name himself; he hopes that demand
for a name will rise in the future, and may there-
fore not sell to a buyer who has a positive util-
ity today. This could lead to a market failure
in a few ways. The uncertainty around future
demand means that some names may be squat-
ted indeﬁnitely, while legitimate users may end
up with sub-optimal names. If most valuable
names are locked up by squatters, it may prevent
the growth of the system, in turn preventing the
growth in market price for names that specula-
tors are hoping for. Land speculation has also
been criticized as contributing to a market fail-
ure [15].
In this view, squatting may exist and may be
problematic even if the primary market is able
to discover the market price. But if the primary
market is algorithmic, it only exacerbates the
squatting problem.
Complexity of the utility function. Our
argument above is essentially that the utility
of a given name to a given user may vary
with time. This is particularly relevant to
cryptocurrency-based namespaces — in addi-
tion to the usual network effects that make
the adoption of some new products challeng-
ing, cryptocurrencies need to “bootstrap,” which
presents an additional difﬁculty in getting off
the ground. A cryptocurrency may not be suf-
ﬁciently secure if it has too few users. Thus,
many users may have a zero or negligible utility
for all names until they decide that the names-
pace is secure enough and has enough users to
be worthy of taking seriously.
Another aspect of complexity of the utility
function is diminishing marginal utility. A user
named John Smith may want either the name
JohnSmith or john-smith but not necessarily
both. Time-variation and diminishing marginal
utility make the mechanism design problem
very tricky.
Suppose, to the contrary, that utility functions
are time invariant, and utility functions of a user
for different names are independent. Then we
may state the goal of the system as ownership
of each domain by the user with the maximum
utility (or willingness to pay) for that domain,
as long as that value is above some threshold.
We can easily realize this by making the pri-
mary market a second-price auction with a re-
serve price. No secondary market would be nec-
essary.
Of course, this is oversimpliﬁed. Let’s add
diminishing marginal utility to this model. Sup-
pose there are 10 John Smiths in the world and
10 variations of the name JohnSmith. A 10x10
matrix describes the utility of each user for each
9

name. Further, none of these users has any util-
ity for more than one name. Now we can state
a welfare-maximization goal of ﬁnding the as-
signment of names to users that maximizes the
sum of each user’s utility for his assigned name,
which translates to a maximum weighted graph
matching problem. Or we could be happy with
a Pareto-efﬁcient assignment; since this is one-
sided market (names aren’t agents), this is the
house allocation problem [16]. This shows that
even in a highly simpliﬁed setting with a ﬁnite
number of names and the same number of users,
the mechanism design question is very tricky.
When we add time-varying preferences to the
model, it is unclear if we can even formally state
a goal for the system. The harder we make it for
a user to hold on to a purchased name, the easier
it becomes for an adversary to “seize” a name
(see below).
At any rate, the fact that preferences are time
varying appears to be part of the reason that
names in Namecoin expire and must be re-
newed; in effect, they are leased rather than pur-
chased outright.
Seizures. The Namecoin community consid-
ers it a major goal to prevent “seizures” of do-
main names by adversaries [17]. To prevent
seizures, then, it must be easy to hold on to a
name after buying it. This is in tension with pre-
venting speculation, which works by buying a
name and holding on to it despite other people
wanting it.
The reason it is even technically possible to
prevent such censorship in the face of a well-
funded adversary is that the adversary can’t pos-
sibly preemptively buy up all the names that the
victim might use. For example, Wikileaks might
ﬁnd any name with the string “wikileaks" in it
to be acceptable, even if not ideal, for their pur-
poses. In other words the victim’s utility func-
tion has a large support; the adversary’s utility
for a name is contingent on the victim owning
that name.
0 5000 10000 15000 20000
Value occurs more than n times
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Percent of total names
Figure 2: Analysis of squatting. Names whose
values occur more than about 10 times can be
safely considered to be squatted. In fact, the
graph shows that the majority of names are held
by proliﬁc squatters who control thousands of
names.
4 Analysis of .bit domains
In this section we analyze the current state of .bit
domains. We begin at the highest level, look-
ing at the repetition of values in order to detect
squatters. Next we look at how many .bit do-
mains are set up with query-able values. Finally
we actually visit these query-able names and an-
alyze the content we ﬁnd there.
4.1 Detecting squatters
We investigate the balance between squatters
and other users in the .bit subspace. As we dis-
cussed in 3, squatting is a critical issue in any
decentralized namespace. We look at Namecoin
in order to get a realistic view on the prolifera-
tion of squatting.
Namecoin possesses the same pseudonymity
properties as Bitcoin and thus it is difﬁcult to
group names by their owner. Names are owned
by individual addresses rather than by identities
and it is a common practice to keep each pur-
chased name under a different address. Because
of this, it is difﬁcult to assess how many names
any single entity owns.
10

However, many squatters are easily identiﬁed
through the values they set for the names they
own. Since there is no built-in functionality
for the listing and sale of names in Namecoin,
squatters use the values of names they own to
display contact information. This information
generally comes in the form of either contact in-
formation stored directly in the value of a name,
or contact information stored at the IP address
to which the name resolves. We observed that a
squatter’s contact information is generally con-
stant among all the names they own. Thus, by
measuring the extent to which values are dupli-
cated on the block chain, we can estimate the
ratio of squatters to genuine users.
Regular .bit domain owners are unlikely to
use values that are highly replicated. The value
of a domain points to an individual server and
most are unique. Repetition may occur in this
circumstance is when multiple names resolve to
the same point. This could occur when a sin-
gle DNS server is resolving a large number of
names to different websites. However when we
performed the content analysis described in Sec-
tion 4.3, we found that this does not happen cur-
rently.
There is no deﬁnitive threshold for deciding
exactly how often a value has to occur in order to
assume a squatter has been detected. However
even the coarsest grained approach displays a
massive amount of squatting on the block chain.
Of the 196023 currently active names, there are
only 34361 unique values.
In Figure 6 we examine the fraction of current
.bit names that are squatted. We sorted all of the
values that occur by the number of times they
occur. The graph has a very sharp initial drop
as we remove all names with values that occur
only a few times. This leaves the majority of
domains to drop off very slowly as we remove
bigger and bigger squatters. Using a cut-off of
n = 10, it appears safe to say that at least 76%
of .bit domains are held by squatters.
Type of resolution Count
Nameserver URL 3200
Nameserver IP 148
Single IP 5848
Multiple IP 2
Single IPv6 2
Multiple IPv6 1
Tor 9
Alias 23
Only subdomains 2
Total 9354
Table 1: Comprehensive list of .bit domain res-
olution methods currently in use.
4.2 DNS records
We now examine how .bit domains are used by
genuine users. Only 9354 out of the 119624 .bit
domains make any attempt to resolve to an IP
address. Out of these a variety of types of IP
resolution are employed.
In order to support DNS lookups, Namecoin
provides a speciﬁcation that allows for the sup-
port of most DNS record types. A name’s con-
ﬁguration is stored in a JSON dictionary object
which is placed in a name’s value. Domain’s
can be conﬁgured in a number of different ways.
The main methods are directly setting one or
more IP (or IPv6) addresses or setting one or
more secondary name-servers which hold infor-
mation about a domain. Additionally records
can link a name to a number of hidden-services
URL schemes like .onion [18] and .i2p [19].
Namecoin supports a number of different
name resolution methods. Different methods
have different properties and thus it is interest-
ing to inspect how people are setting up their
domains. The vast majority of names point di-
rectly to an address. This includes people using
IP, IPv6, and Tor. This is by far the most privacy
preserving method since the IP address is drawn
directly from the block chain. A client can sim-
ply look up a name in the block chain and im-
mediately connect to the server. However, this
privacy comes at the cost of ﬂexibility since the
11

Criteria applied Count
Valid DNS 9354
Curlable 5374
Not squatter 745
Without duplicates 455
Without errors 278
With content 222
Without ICANN hostname 28
Table 2: Number of .bit domains which resolve
to real content
server is directly encoded in the block chain and
can not be changed without an update.
The much more ﬂexible conﬁguration, also
commonly used, is name server delegation.
Rather than directly listing an IP address in the
block chain, one or more name servers are listed.
This way a name owner can update their IP ad-
dress without modifying the block chain. How-
ever this is an insecure delegation since Name-
coin can not enforce any properties regarding
the action of the external name server. The
server will have full control over its interaction
with users including the ability to track lookups
or return results which aren’t globally consis-
tent.
4.3 Domain content analysis
After understanding how people connect their
names with IP addresses, we explored what
sort of content is reachable through .bit domain
names. We attempted to download the front
page of each of these 9354 domains over port 80
(HTTP). 3881 of these domains were unreach-
able or didn’t serve web content, leaving us with
only 5374 responsive domains.
Looking at the content of the servers’ re-
sponses, we found that of the responsive 5374
domains, 4629 are owned by 3 different squat-
ters. These domains serve nothing of value and
caused massive inﬂation in our reachable do-
main count.
Removing the squatters, we count 745 viable
domains. However, many of these pages are
mirrors or duplicates of each other. After re-
moving 290 such duplicates, 455 domains re-
mained.
A large number of pages were either error re-
sponses from the server or default pages from
various web servers. Neither of these can be
considered useful content. There were 177 such
domains, and removing them left us with 278
domains.
Out of the remaining sites, many had very
small amounts of content consisting of only a
few words on a blank page like, "Welcome to
mysite.bit." These pages, though valid uses of
Namecoin, provide minimal utility to a visitor.
Thus, we decided to look at only pages con-
sisting of 15 or more words and images which
brought us down to 222 domains.
These 222 domains make up the only web-
sites reachable through .bit domain names
which have any real content on them at the time
of this analysis. We are further interested in the
subset of these pages which don’t come from
a server that is accessible through a standard
ICANN TLD as well. 83 of the pages directly
redirect the user to a standard domain and 111
were manually identiﬁed as pointing to the same
site as a standard domain. The domains which
had ICANN hostname’s along with their .bit
hostname were manually identiﬁed and pinged
to ensure matching IP addresses.
This left us with 28 pages serving non-trivial
content that is uniquely available via .bit.
Our approach to analyzing content suffers
from a few limitations. First of all we only
queried the main domain over port 80, thus if
any of the servers only respond to subdomains
or only serve content over HTTPS, they are not
included. Additionally when we detect how
much content is on each page, we do not follow
links and thus content could be hidden behind
links. Despite these limitations we believe that
we have missed very few legitimate domains.
12

100 101 102 103 104 105 106
Alexa rank
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%Probability of being registered
Figure 3: For each 1≤ n≤ 1,000,000, the
probability that .bit versions of domains with
Alexa rank approximately n are registered.
4.4 Examining Squatter Name
Choice
As we have seen, many individual squatters
buy up very large numbers of domains. We
now explore what sort of categories these names
fall into and try to interpret the decisions these
squatters have made. Here we explore two po-
tential measures of name desirability, one using
Alexa ranking, and one using the length of the
name.
We can see from Figure 3 and Figure 4 that
there are patterns to the names that squatters
have acquired. In Figure 3, we can see that
squatters have claimed the majority of very high
ranking Alexa sites.
In Figure 4 we see that there is a preference
for shorter names. Table 3 shows that in fact
all one- and two-character names are taken. It
is not until we get to names with at least three
characters that there are names available to reg-
ister. Beyond three characters, the combinato-
rial nature of name strings makes it infeasible to
register all names of that length. There are more
names with a length of 4 available than there are
total names registered currently.
Alexa ranking and name length are not an ex-
haustive description of squatter behavior. Future
work would attempt to better model the valua-
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
Name Length
0
5000
10000
15000
20000
25000Frequency
Figure 4: The number of Namecoin names reg-
istered as a function of name length.
Name length Percent registered
1 100.00%
2 100.00%
3 58.61%
4 1.00%
5 0.02%
... ...
Table 3: Percent of all domains of registered by
length. All possible names are counted combi-
natorially using the rules given by [7].
tion that squatters and other namespace partici-
pants put on names.
5 Secondary market analysis
Next, we seek to understand and quantify how
names move between users. Our basic scenario
is that Alice owns the name ‘d/example’ and
Bob would like to purchase it from her. We ex-
plore various ways this sale can occur and how
these sales can be detected.
5.1 Detecting atomic transfers
The safest way to buy and sell Namecoin names
is through the use of atomic transactions. This
is an important technique in cryptocurrencies
13

Figure 5: Anatomy of an atomic name transfer. Both the name and the payment are included in
the same transaction, so one cannot fail to transfer to the other party without the other failing to
transfer.
whereby two parties can exchange digital as-
sets (such as a name in exchange for currency)
without a trusted intermediary without either
worrying that the other will abscond after re-
ceiving her half of the bargain. We show how
these transactions work in Figure 5. In an
atomic transaction, Alice and Bob make their
exchange in a single transaction. In the sim-
plest form of atomic name transfer, Bob cre-
ates a transaction which transfers his payment
to Alice and transfers ‘d/example’ to him. He
then sends this transaction to Alice, the owner
of the name, who veriﬁes it, signs, and broad-
casts the transaction to the block chain. Both Al-
ice and Bob’s signatures are locked to the inputs
and outputs of the transaction so neither input
can be spent individually without the full trans-
action. This transaction provides cryptographic
security to both Alice and Bob since either both
the name and coins will be exchanged or noth-
ing will. Although there is nothing inherently
different looking about this transaction on the
block chain, there are a few possible techniques
to detect them by implementation quirks.
The Namecoin client is a fairly underdevel-
oped piece of software and thus there is no
built-in method of performing atomic transac-
tions. In order to accomplish this task, the
Namecoin RPC client must be used from the
command line. In order to simplify this task,
a Namecoin developer created ANTPY [20],
a piece of software to automate the creation
of atomic transactions. This software has the
quirk that the buyer’s payment goes to the ad-
dress that the seller held the name in. To ﬁnd
these transactions we queried the block chain for
transactions with a NAME_FIRSTUPDATE or
NAME_UPDATE input from the same address as
a non name output. We then further reduced this
set by eliminating transactions where the name
stayed at the same address.
We searched throughout the history of the
Namecoin block chain for transactions ﬁtting
this speciﬁcation. Our query returned 13 trans-
actions which we believe represent all transac-
tions built by the ANTPY script. However this
by no means represents all sales on the block
chain. We next attempt to discover atomic trans-
actions in a different way.
A implementation-agnostic method for de-
tecting atomic name transfers is to ﬁnd trans-
actions that clearly use change addresses. This
occurs when there are two non-name outputs in
a transaction that has a name input. In this case
the buyer did not want to pay all of his input to
the seller and thus kept some for himself. This
14

leaves the transaction with 3 outputs. Under
normal circumstances, NAME_UPDATE transac-
tions will only have two outputs, a name output
and a change address. Thus every transaction
with three outputs is very likely an atomic name
transfer.
In the history of the Namecoin block chain,
we found 6 transactions ﬁtting this form. How-
ever 5 of the 6 were also detected by the previ-
ous (ANTPY) criterion.
The 14 atomic transactions which we detected
are a lower bound for the number of name trans-
fers. We are unable to query for all atomic
transactions since if the buyer doesn’t want any
change from a purchase and the seller gives the
buyer a new address to send payment to, the
transaction is indistinguishable from a regular
non-transferring name update.
5.2 Deriving an upper bound on
number of sales
Following up on our lower bound from the pre-
vious section, we now derive an upper bound on
the number of name sales using data from the
block chain. Whereas atomic transactions, can
(sometimes) be recognized simply from their
contents, other name sale transactions are not
recognizable. Here the payment could be a sepa-
rate transaction or even made in a currency other
than Namecoin. We would hope that we could
detect changes in name ownership by looking at
changes in which key owns a name. However,
since the Namecoin client defaults to sending
names to new addresses on update, there is no
way to look at an update and tell whether or not
a name is being transferred between owners.
In order to detect non-atomic transactions we
must expand our view to the prior value of a
name being updated. Certainly if the value does
not change then the transaction is simply renew-
ing the name, not transferring it. However con-
sidering all other transactions to be name trans-
fers is far too conservative of a criterion. Users
freely update the values of names whenever in-
formation in them becomes outdated.
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Squatter Treshold
0
50
100
150
200
250Number of Transactions
Figure 6: Number of transfers detected based
on squatting threshold. For eachn on the x-axis
(5≤ n≤ 25), we plot the number of squatter→
non-squatter transactions detected if we char-
acterize names whose values occur n or more
times as squatted.
Although there doesn’t seem to be a way
to detect non-atomic name transfers generally,
there is an important subclass of these transac-
tions which can still be detected — transfers
from squatters to regular users. In the previ-
ous section we discussed our detection of squat-
ters in the block chain which produces a list of
values which with a high probability belong to
squatters. Detecting transfers from squatters by
ﬁnding names that change from one of these val-
ues to a value outside this set gives us a strategy
to detect transfers.
We employ an additional criterion to elimi-
nate false positives to tighten our upper bound.
If a name’s value includes an info or email ﬁeld
and that stays the same in the updated value we
can assume this is simply an update by the squat-
ter.
Applying this analysis at various squatter
threshold values, we see that the total number
of squatter→ non-squatter transactions detected
holds at approximately 250 transactions. We
emphasize that this value is likely an upper-
bound since our criteria for reducing the number
of transactions were quite conservative.
To summarize, we would expect that given
the high percentage of squatted .bit names, if
15

there is a ﬂourishing secondary market it would
be dominated by sales from squatters to regular
users. Yet we are able to upper bound the num-
ber of such transfers to about 250, a tiny frac-
tion of the number of squatted names. Further,
even though Namecoin supports a secure way to
transfer names, we ﬁnd strong evidence based
on known tools supporting this functionality that
its usage is very low.
6 Exploring namespace de-
sign choices
Throughout this section we will refer to the con-
cept of the decentralized algorithmic agent that
we introduced in Section 3. Several of the op-
tions we explore will require this agent to im-
plement rather complex algorithms. We will not
directly address the question of practical feasi-
bility of complex decentralized agents. We note,
however, that based on proposed designs, these
agents can be surprisingly powerful; we refer the
reader to [6, 21, 22].
6.1 Control of names
At any point in time, each name is either con-
trolled by some user or is unclaimed. In the lat-
ter case, it can be considered to be owned by the
decentralized agent encoded into the cryptocur-
rency, and is on the primary market. Any user
can attempt to purchase any name on the pri-
mary market. We will return later to the question
of how the name is priced.
When a name is controlled by a user, how
strong is that control? We can consider a hier-
archy of increasingly weaker forms of control.
1. Control lasts forever and names can-
not be transferred. It is straightforward to de-
sign a namespace in such a way that names are
non-transferable (in Namecoin, it would be a
matter of requiring the input and output of a
NAME_UPDATE transaction to have the same
address). Making names non-transferable would
lock authority to update to the value restricted
to the key used to ﬁrst register the name. Such a
system could deter speculative squatters because
a speculator would not be able to sell a name
to another individual. While it would be pos-
sible to transfer the private key that controls a
name, the user receiving it would have no cryp-
tographic assurance that the original owner does
still posses a copy of the key. On the other hand
squatters who wish to censor names or simply
damage the system would be undeterred by the
inability to transfer names.
As we noted in Section 3, utility functions are
time-varying, so a technical restriction against
name transfer goes against the logic of the mar-
ket. It is possible that most names would be con-
trolled by squatters who act as dealers and lease
names to users. Essentially this would make the
system a hybrid between a centralized and a de-
centralized namespace.
2. Control lasts forever except if the user
chooses to transfer or sell the name. This ap-
proach is easy to understand as it is the most
similar to physical property. A practical prob-
lem with this approach is that if a user loses her
key, any names controlled by that user or key
are lost forever. This may also happen if a user
leaves the system, but this problem can be alle-
viated by having the primary market agent buy
back names from users. This incentivizes the
user to give up the name before leaving the sys-
tem even if she can’t ﬁnd a seller for it. The
agent essentially acts as an automated market
maker.
3. Names expire after a ﬁxed period, except
if the user renews it. This is a practical choice
that avoids the problems pointed out above, es-
pecially if the renewal fee is very small com-
pared to the price of the name on the primary
market. We expect that a rational user will keep
renewing a name she controls unless her utility
drops to near-zero, or she loses the associated
private key and therefore can’t update the name.
If the renewal fee is substantial, this becomes
similar to a lease instead of ownership. The re-
newal fee is paid to the agent.
16

Finally, the agent may pay the user if she lets
her name expires, returning her original fee to
her. This is analogous to a deposit.
4. Names always expire after a ﬁxed period
and return to the primary market. Seizure or
censorship becomes easy. Additionally, if we
imagine that names appreciate in price by be-
ing used, just as land that is developed increases
in value, this disincentivizes users from putting
names to use since they have no expectation of
being able to hold on to them. So this model
is clearly inappropriate for applications like do-
main names, but perhaps useful in other con-
texts.
5. Control over names may be preempted by
other users. This is an idea that has been pro-
posed several times in the context of Namecoin,
allowing users to either force a name to return
to the primary market or even directly acquire it
by paying the a fee to the agent and/or the cur-
rent owner. This is intended to alleviate squat-
ting, but it is hard to imagine this approach being
superior to a functioning secondary market. On
the other hand, the downsides are clear: seizures
are now possible, and as before, uncertainty over
future ownership may discourage legitimate use.
6.2 Markets and fees
Primary market: auctions vs. algorithmic
pricing. There are essentially two choices for
the primary market: auction and algorithmic
pricing. Auctions are appealing, but there are
practical problems due to the inﬁnite number of
names. For example, let’s say an auction for a
name is triggered whenever any user expresses
an interest in buying that name. Since there are
a potentially inﬁnite number of names that a user
is interested in, she would have to be able to
participate in an auction at any time, which is
a problematic assumption. Alternatively, names
could go up for auction at ﬁxed times, but this
also has practical downsides.
On the other hand, names can be priced al-
gorithmically. This is more applicable for ap-
plications like domain names than for personal
namespaces. In the former case the utility of a
name is less dependent on the user and there-
fore easier to price based on publicly available
data. Several factors based on publicly available
data can be incorporated into the pricing model:
name length, frequency of the name (treated as
a word) in text found on the web, trafﬁc rank
of the corresponding .com domain, and so on.
Pricing can also vary with time; a blended model
between auctions and algorithmic pricing would
see initial prices decided algorithmically which
decline steadily over time in a form of Dutch
auction. Again the challenges in implementing
this are practical: incorporating data external
to the block chain into the computation of dis-
tributed agents is possible, but very complex and
has not been successfully demonstrated in prac-
tice. If the secondary market is implemented
within the system (see below), then the agent has
access to pricing data for other similar names as
well as for the same name if it was previously
sold on the secondary market.
There is an interesting technical limitation of
agents which affects algorithmic pricing. Since
the agent doesn’t have private storage, an adver-
sarial node in the peer-to-peer network can inter-
cept a user’s request to the agent to purchase a
name, and try to purchase that name ahead of the
user, perhaps in the hope of turning around and
selling it to the user. This is analogous to front
running. In fact, front running is a problem in
the current DNS as well, carried out by interme-
diaries that provide domain registry search ser-
vices [23]. Fortunately, in the cryptocurrency
context there’s a simple cryptographic solution:
the user ﬁrst presents a sealed bid to the agent
(here it is the name that needs to be sealed, not
the price, which is public); after this message
is conﬁrmed in the block chain, the user (from
the same address) reveals the name. Now the
adversary cannot front run the user because he
cannot spoof messages (transactions) from the
user’s address.5
5This is the approach used in Namecoin, and the rea-
son why NAME_NEW and NAME_FIRSTUPDATE need to
17

Namecoin uses a simple model of a ﬂat fee for
all domains that varies with time (which we can
think of as a trivial case of algorithmic pricing).
Secondary market. As long as the techni-
cal capability to transfer names exist, we would
expect a secondary market to develop without
any further design support. In addition, the
ability to transfer names and payment in a sin-
gle atomic transaction allows parties to transact
without a trusted intermediary. This is straight-
forward to implement technically as we dis-
cussed in Section 5; Bitcoin and most altcoins
including Namecoin support it.
However, there are beneﬁts to the capabil-
ity to post bids and offers on the block chain
as well as execute trades. First, as a prac-
tical matter, when cryptocurrencies are in the
bootstrapping stage, exchanges may not develop
or may be fragmented. We see this problem
with Namecoin. Secondary markets for DNS
names are also fragmented. A fragmented or
non-existent secondary market may in turn in-
hibit adoption of the namespace. Integrating an
exchange (implemented, of course, in a decen-
tralized form) may prevent this problem. As
an interesting historical aside, early versions of
Satoshi Nakamoto’s Bitcoin code contained ex-
change functionality in prototype stage, but this
was never rolled out [24]. Second, as mentioned
above, executing trades via the block chain al-
lows the agent direct access to price data, and
this may help with algorithmic pricing. Finally,
integrating an exchange allows shaping the sec-
ondary market, for example, by charging a fee
for trades. As mentioned earlier, it is technically
feasible to deter private trades; this would force
or incentivize trades to happen through the inte-
grated exchange.
6.3 The agent’s ﬁnances
In a centralized namespace, the owner of the
namespace has a clear goal of maximizing rev-
enue from name sales. In a decentralized sys-
be distinct operations separated by a 12-block waiting pe-
riod, as described in Section 2.3.
tem, this is typically not a meaningful goal. Af-
ter all, the agent is not a real-world entity. How,
then, should the agent handle its ﬁnances?
Our ﬁrst simplifying observation is that there
is no point in the agent holding on to any funds
— even if it needs to buy names from users,
it can simply print money (introduce new coins
into the system) as necessary. Of course, from
a practical perspective it may be easier to have
the agent store funds; this corresponds to the
proposal in Namecoin to treat registration fees
as deposits and to hold them in “escrow” [25].
Conceptually, however, we can get rid of this
option.
That leaves two options. The ﬁrst is to dis-
tribute its revenue to miners, in proportion to
their hash power at the time of the transac-
tion. This is technically straightforward to do
by structuring payments as transaction fees to be
collected by the miner who ﬁrst mines a block
containing that transaction. The other option is
to “burn” the coins representing the payment,
i.e., mark them as permanently unspendable.
This is also technically trivial. Assuming that
the market capitalization of the currency is un-
affected by burning some of it, it has the effect of
distributing the agent’s revenue to all holders of
the currency in proportion to their holding. Both
of these appear to be reasonable options, and
Namecoin has used both; it is not clear which
is better in terms of incentivizing the long-term
growth and security of the system.
7 Related Work
Here we discuss attempts besides Namecoin at
decentralized cryptocurrency-based namespaces
or domain-name systems and more broadly
technologies that utilize the block chain.
Bitshares is another altcoin that includes pro-
posals for a namespace as one of its goals [26].
Emercoin recently emerged as a Namecoin com-
petitor [27].
More broadly, the ability to publish messages
to the block chain immediately allows a vari-
18

ety of applications. Physical property, shares
of stocks, bonds, or any other real asset can be
digitally represented on the block chain. Over-
lay protocols such as Mastercoin and Colored
Coins specify a syntax and semantics for such
digital representations [28, 29]. CommitCoin al-
lows for putting hash commitments on the Bit-
coin block chain in order to timestamp data in a
trustless manner [30].
There are a number of more complex applica-
tions that require additional primitives. Finan-
cial derivatives are contracts whose value de-
pends, in some mutually agreed-upon way, on
the price (or movements in price) of an under-
lying asset. Implementing derivatives of digi-
tal assets, then, requires user-deﬁned logic (or
scripts) for transaction validation. This can
be accomplished via an altcoin with a ﬂexible
scripting language such as Ethereum [21]. Fur-
thermore, since derivatives depend on prices,
scripts that implement them require access to
price feeds as input. Otherwise, it requires
a trusted third party (known by a Bitcoin ad-
dress) to regularly publish suitably encoded,
signed price statements reﬂecting external real-
ity. These can be published directly to the block
chain or distributed off-chain and only added to
the block chain when needed to redeem an asset.
More generally, such entities could publish any
data feed representing news or other events.
Bitcoin can act as a platform for fair secure
multiparty computation [31, 32, 33]. These are
SMC protocols augmented with Bitcoin opera-
tions, e.g., a payment from one participant to
another, or a deposit.
Finally, a set of related ideas known as decen-
tralized autonomous organizations (among sev-
eral other names) has stirred considerable ex-
citement in the community recently. These com-
bine several primitives discussed above — dig-
ital assets, long-lived scripts implementing ar-
bitrary logic governing those assets, data feeds,
and out-of-band communication. Some propos-
als for DAOs incorporate human input in vari-
ous forms: one is a decentralized agent farming
out computationally intractable tasks to humans
[34]. Another is voting by shareholders of de-
centralized agents to enable modiﬁcations to the
logic (i.e., script).
8 Discussion and Conclusion
Our empirical analysis of Namecoin and explo-
ration of the design space reveal several po-
tential mechanism design weaknesses. First,
Namecoin’s fees are far too low to deter squat-
ters. The system utilizes neither an auction nor
algorithmic pricing that might help price names
near their market value. Worse, users who paid
a high network fee in the early period and who
wish to leave the system have no way to recoup
any of their investment by returning the name to
the primary market.
These problems are exacerbated by the lack
of a functioning secondary market. Buying a
squatted name, even if contact information is
available on the block chain, is a cumbersome
manual process. There is no way to, say, search
for all names available for sale matching a given
string and below a speciﬁed price limit. Name-
coin does not integrate an exchange into its
core functionality, nor have Namecoin develop-
ers chosen to build and promote one outside the
system.
Is a decentralized namespace for domain
names viable? Even with a hypothetical sys-
tem where the above weaknesses are ﬁxed, it’s
not clear that it would be a viable platform for
a decentralized DNS. Namespaces are a solu-
tion to the problem of mapping names to val-
ues. However, in a domain name system, the
problem that needs to be solved is to map enti-
ties — legal entities, brands, or identities — to
addresses/values.
Naturally, mapping entities to names (or di-
rectly to values) is not a purely technical prob-
lem, but requires human judgment. In the tradi-
tional DNS, arbitration based on trademark law
is a mechanism to prevent names that are con-
fusingly similar from being controlled by differ-
ent entities. This is augmented with Extended
19

Validation certiﬁcates, which, when used, estab-
lish the legal identity of the name owner. With
these mechanisms in place, the user must still
provide a name to the system, but at least she
can then verify that it corresponds to the correct
entity she had in mind. This type of veriﬁcation
is much harder to incorporate in a decentralized
system. We are not aware of any designs for de-
centralized systems that attempt to do so.
If such mechanisms are not developed, can
decentralized namespaces for domain names be
viable at all? Or will they depart so far from user
expectations as to be unusable?
Other solutions for usability might be possi-
ble. Web search engines are used in practice
as a way of mapping entities to names. Indeed,
such “navigational queries” are one of the pri-
mary ways in which people use search engines.6
Navigational queries are about equally viable in
centralized and decentralized systems. Presum-
ably, using search engines and following links
from other sources (including bookmarks) will
allow a user to gradually memorize an entity→
name mapping.
Of course, if users always used these nagiva-
tional aids and relied on them entirely to ﬁnd
the correct name, then those names don’t have
to be human-memorable or user-chosen, so one
doesn’t need a namespace at all. Indeed, .onion
domains force users to rely on navigational aids
since names are public keys and can’t be freely
chosen by users. Anecdotally, however, it is
clear that this results in poor usability and mem-
orable names would be an improvement.
We remain neutral on the question of whether
a decentralized namespace for domain names
can be viable. But the human factors we dis-
cussed do complicate the mechanism design
question. In Section 3 we proposed utility max-
imization as a (strawman) goal of the mecha-
nism, and suggested that an auction would sat-
isfy this goal. However, in an auction-based
system, it may turn out that an adversary inter-
6Bing reports that about 30% of queries are naviga-
tional [35].
ested in phishing has a higher utility for (say)
bankofamerica.com than Bank of America
does. It is not clear how to design a mechanism
that will discourage such outcomes.
Comparison between .bit and OneName.
In contrast to the .bit subspace, the online iden-
tity service, OneName, has a very large user
base. We found that after limiting the number
of name/value pairs to only those with unique,
well formed entries (using the strategies listed in
section 5) OneName has roughly 20,000 pairs,
which dwarfs the 1000 or so .bit domains. It
is too early to tell whether or not these users are
putting their OneName identities to any real use,
but at least in terms of registration numbers, in-
terest appears to be high.
Perhaps the biggest reason for this is that
while scarce, OneName names are not nearly as
valuable as domain names, and so it is far less
important to get the mechanism design right,
or have any mechanism at all. Unlike domain
names that must be remembered by humans,
users typically ﬁnd OneName identities through
links from other social media services or by
searching for the individual’s real name.
A second reason is that OneName beneﬁts
from being a centralized service on top of a
decentralized platform. If a name is squatted,
a typical user who wants that name might not
even know how to contact the squatter because
they are trying to register a name through the
OneName website which doesn’t facilitate this
process. While a user could technically inter-
act with the ‘u/’ subspace of the block chain di-
rectly, most OneName users don’t.
The .bit subspace, on the other hand, suf-
fers from the lack of any centralized service
providers coupled with the poor usability of the
client software. A new user faces many signiﬁ-
cant hurdles in registering a name. The ﬁrst step
is acquiring a Namecoin client which requires
downloading, verifying, and storing the entire
block chain, which is currently about 1.6 GB.
Then she must acquire NMC, which requires
connecting the user’s wallet on a cryptocur-
rency exchange (which supports Namecoin) to
20

her bank account. In our experience, there is
a 3-day wait after registering with an exchange
and being allowed to transfer funds. Now the
user is ﬁnally ready to register names, but she
must also remember to update names every 250
days or run software in the background that will
automatically handle this.
In conclusion, designers of decentralized
namespaces must pay careful attention to mech-
anism design to deter squatters and facilitate a
healthy secondary market. Further, the usability
of the overall ecosystem, which includes not just
users who own names but the applications that
utilize the namespace for web browsing or other
tasks, is paramount. Finally, a hybrid model
of centralized services that utilize an underlying
decentralized platform is worth considering.
Acknowledgement. We would like to thank
Ed Felten and Muneeb Ali for helpful discus-
sions and feedback.
References
[1] Paul Mutton. WikiLeaks.org taken down
by US DNS provider. URL http:
//news.netcraft.com/archives/
2010/12/03/wikileaks-org-taken-
down-by-us-dns-provider.html .
[2] Wikipedia. Zooko’s triangle, . URL
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Zooko%27s_triangle.
[3] Aaron Swartz. Squaring the triangle: Secure,
decentralized, human-readable names. URL
http://www.aaronsw.com/weblog/
squarezooko.
[4] Satoshi Nakamoto. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer
electronic cash system. URL https://
bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf.
[5] appamatto. Bitdns and generalizing bit-
coin. URL https://bitcointalk.
org/index.php?topic=1790.0.
[6] J Bonneau, J Clark, E Felten, J Kroll, A Miller,
and A Narayanan. On decentralizing prediction
markets and order books. In Workshop on the
Economics of Information Security, 2014. URL
http://weis2014.econinfosec.
org/papers/Clark-WEIS2014.pdf.
[7] Domain name speciﬁcation, 2015. URL
https://wiki.namecoin.info/
index.php?title=Domain_Name_
Specification.
[8] khalahan. Nmcontrol. URL https://
github.com/khalahan/nmcontrol.
[9] Freespeechme website. URL http://www.
freespeechme.org/.
[10] Greg Slepak. Dnschain. URL https://
github.com/okTurtles/dnschain.
[11] Opennic project. URL http://www.
opennicproject.org/.
[12] Keybase. Keybase. URL https://
keybase.io/.
[13] Luke A Walker. Icann’s uniform domain name
dispute resolution policy. Berk. Tech. LJ, 15:
289, 2000.
[14] William L Silber. Marketmaker behavior in an
auction market: an analysis of scalpers in fu-
tures markets. The Journal of Finance, 39(4):
937–953, 1984.
[15] John R Ottensmann. Urban sprawl, land val-
ues and the density of development. Land eco-
nomics, pages 389–400, 1977.
[16] Atila Abdulkadiroglu and Tayfun Sönmez.
Matching markets: Theory and practice. In Ad-
vances in Economics and Econometrics (Tenth
World Congress), pages 3–47, 2013.
[17] Daniel. Proposal: Domains should be regu-
larly auctioned. URL https://forum.
namecoin.info/viewtopic.php?f=
11&t=2003.
[18] Roger Dingledine, Nick Mathewson, and Paul
Syverson. Tor: The second-generation onion
router. Technical report, DTIC Document,
2004.
21

[19] Juan Pablo Timpanaro, Chrisment Isabelle, and
Festor Olivier. Monitoring the i2p network.
2011. URL https://hal.inria.fr/
hal-00653136/document.
[20] ANTPY Github. Bitcoin github com-
mit history. URL https://github.
com/bitcoin/bitcoin/commit/
5253d1ab77fab1995ede03fb934ed.
[21] Ethereum white paper, 2015. URL
https://github.com/ethereum/
wiki/wiki/White-Paper.
[22] Bitcoin Wiki. Agents. URL https://en.
bitcoin.it/wiki/Agents.
[23] Wikipedia. Domain name front running,
. URL https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Domain_name_front_running.
[24] phelixbtc. Bitcoin github. URL https://
github.com/phelixbtc/antpy.
[25] Namecoin Forum. Idea for better fee struc-
ture. URL https://forum.namecoin.
info/viewtopic.php?p=6653&sid=
2cf37d245bbc611a8d93ad6ac23b9982.
[26] .p2p (bitshares dns), 2015. URL http:
//wiki.bitshares.org/index.php/
.p2p_%28BitShares_DNS%29.
[27] Emercoin, 2015. URL http://emercoin.
com/.
[28] Mastercoin protocol speciﬁcation, 2015. URL
https://github.com/mastercoin-
MSC/spec.
[29] Meni Rosenfeld. Overview of colored coins,
2012. URL https://bitcoil.co.il/
BitcoinX.pdf.
[30] Jeremy Clark and Aleksander Essex. Com-
mitcoin: Carbon dating commitments with
bitcoin. In Financial Cryptography and
Data Security, pages 390–398. Springer, 2012.
doi:10.1007/978-3-642-32946-3_28.
[31] Marcin Andrychowicz, Stefan Dziembowski,
Daniel Malinowski, and Lukasz Mazurek.
Secure multiparty computations on bitcoin.
In Security and Privacy (SP), 2014 IEEE
Symposium on , pages 443–458. IEEE, 2014.
doi:10.1109/SP.2014.35.
[32] Iddo Bentov and Ranjit Kumaresan. How to use
bitcoin to design fair protocols. In Advances
in Cryptology–CRYPTO 2014, pages 421–439.
Springer, 2014. doi:10.1007/978-3-662-44381-
1_24.
[33] Ranjit Kumaresan and Iddo Bentov. How
to use bitcoin to incentivize correct compu-
tations. In Proceedings of the 2014 ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Commu-
nications Security, pages 30–41. ACM, 2014.
doi:10.1145/2660267.2660380.
[34] Vitalik Buterin. Daos, dacs, das and more:
An incomplete terminology guide, 2014.
URL https://blog.ethereum.org/
2014/05/06/daos-dacs-das-and-
more-an-incomplete-terminology-
guide/.
[35] Bing blogs: Making search yours, 2011. URL
http://blogs.bing.com/search/
2011/02/10/making-search-
yours/.
22

A List of signiﬁcant .bit do-
mains
Below is a list of names counted towards the last en-
try in Table 2. These domains were determined by
the proccess described in Section 4.
• alt-freedom.bit
• bangkokgroup.bit
• bitcoinpl.bit
• bitcoinquotes.bit
• carnicominstitutemirror.bit
• changepurse.bit
• columbo.bit
• darkfur93.bit
• dcinvestments.bit
• dealing.bit
• deathrowdemocracy.bit
• dot-bit.bit
• dotbitkittypix.bit
• feens.bit
• hewgill.bit
• hosting.bit
• kk-cabrio.bit
• lapan.bit
• medicinalgenomics.bit
• megabrutal.bit
• michail.bit
• mikeward.bit
• namecoin-test-suite-1.bit
• onemillionpixels.bit
• peterboswell.bit
• rmgx.bit
• tuler.bit
• wikimouto.bit
23