arXiv:1504.03536v1  [cs.NI]  14 Apr 2015
ISP-friendly Peer-assisted On-demand Streaming of
Long Duration Content in BBC iPlayer
Dmytro Karamshuk ∗, Nishanth Sastry ∗, Andrew Secker † and Jigna Chandaria †
∗Department of Informatics, King’s College London, UK. Emai l: ﬁrstname.lastname@kcl.ac.uk
†BBC R&D, London, UK. Email: ﬁrstname.lastname@rd.bbc.co. uk
Abstract—In search of scalable solutions, CDNs are exploring
P2P support. However, the beneﬁts of peer assistance can be
limited by various obstacle factors such as ISP friendliness —
requiring peers to be within the same ISP, bitrate stratiﬁcation —
the need to match peers with others needing similar bitrate,
and partial participation—some peers choosing not to redistribute
content.
This work relates potential gains from peer assistance to th e
average number of users in a swarm, its capacity, and empirically
studies the effects of these obstacle factors at scale, using a month-
long trace of over 2 million users in London accessing BBC sho ws
online. Results indicate that even when P2P swarms are local ised
within ISPs, up to 88% of trafﬁc can be saved. Surprisingly,
bitrate stratiﬁcation results in 2 large sub-swarms and doe s
not signiﬁcantly affect savings. However, partial partici pation,
and the need for a minimum swarm size do affect gains. We
investigate improvements to gain from increasing content a vail-
ability through two well-studied techniques: content bundling –
combining multiple items to increase availability, and historical
caching of previously watched items. Bundling proves ineffective
as increased server trafﬁc from larger bundles outweighs be neﬁts
of availability, but simple caching can considerably boost trafﬁc
gains from peer assistance.
I. I NTRODUCTION
In recent years, the rise of multimedia streaming and
Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) has led to a decrease in the
popularity of peer-to-peer content downloads [16]. Curiou sly,
there has been a simultaneous surge of interest among CDN
operators in using hybrid peer-assisted approaches to ofﬂo ad
some of their server trafﬁc. Early feasibility studies usin g
MSN video traces revealed that substantial savings could be
obtained, for the two most popular videos in the trace [10].
Recent large-scale measurements suggest that such approac hes
might be extremely effective across entire content corpus,
with a reported 70% of server trafﬁc ofﬂoaded worldwide in
Akamai’s NetSession [32], and over 87% savings for a USA-
wide Video-on-Demand (V oD) workload from Conviva [2].
Contrariwise, there have been several large-scale deploym ents
of peer-to-peer (P2P) streaming systems such as GridCast [5 ]
and UUSee [22], which report the need for various degrees of
server assistance.
Thus, there appears to be a clear consensus that P2P
support can greatly decrease the cost of content delivery.
However, there are still several obstacles in the details: F or
instance, ISP friendliness has been a potential point of concern
as peers from different ISPs exchanging content can increas e
of each ISP’s transit trafﬁc costs [13]. Further, especiall y in
the case of large national ISPs, there may be a need to match
peers within the same region or city. Although several locality-
aware approaches have been proposed [13], [30], [6], [17],
[8], measurements have shown that ﬁnding local peers may
Parameter Value
Number of Users 2.2M
Number of IP addresses 1.3M
Number of Sessions 15.9M
TABLE I: Accesses to BBC iPlayer in London, Sep 2013.
not always be easy [27]. In NetSession, only ≈ 18% of P2P
trafﬁc remains within the same Autonomous System (AS) [32];
and in the Conviva traces, server trafﬁc savings drop from
87% to 13% if swarms are restricted to peers within the same
ISP and city [2]. Further, the swarming capacity of peers
may be limited because of asymmetry in upload/download
bandwidths, as well as a general reluctance of some users to
upload content, or change settings to allow background uploads
(only 31% of NetSession clients have upload enabled [32]).
Thus, there may only be a partial participation from peers,
whereby the collective trafﬁc contributed to the swarm is on ly
a fraction of the consumption levels. Applications such as mul-
timedia streaming face additional difﬁculties in maintain ing
stable swarms due to bitrate stratiﬁcation, because peers may
need different bitrates at different times depending on cur rent
network conditions.
We approach these issues in the context of on-demand
streaming of long duration multimedia content such as TV
shows and movies. The sheer size of long duration content
makes this one of the largest class of applications on the
Internet today. For example, in the USA, Netﬂix makes up
a reported 32.7% of peak time trafﬁc [28]. Thus, conﬁrming
the gains from P2P approaches in this setting could go a long
way towards making hybrid CDNs more mainstream in today’s
content delivery architectures.
Intuitively, the success or not of peer assistance depends on
the tension between two factors. On the one hand, on-demand
streaming has been a difﬁcult case for P2P approaches becaus e
of potential asynchronicity in peer arrival times. On the ot her
hand, we make the observation that in today’s streaming
model, users remain online as long as they are watching the
content. If this “online while you watch” model is preserved
in the peer-assisted approach, the availability of content, a key
factor in the efﬁciency of P2P swarming [23], [14], improves
dramatically due to the long duration of content, and could
potentially offset differences in peer arrival times.
We empirically examine whether, at scale, the balance tilts
in favour of peer assistance, using a month-long trace of almost
16 Million sessions of BBC iPlayer. iPlayer is a “catch-up”
streaming service which allows on-demand streaming of TV
and radio shows recently broadcast by the British Broadcasting
Corporation (BBC) in the United Kingdom (UK). Started in
2008, by 2012, it had been used been used by an estimated

44% of UK households [24], and was the most popular long-
duration content streaming application in the UK, second on ly
to YouTube amongst all streaming sources [28]. Our trace
contains 1.2 Million IPs from more than 2 Million users
located in one city, London, allowing us to capture well
the locality issues discussed above. Dataset parameters ar e
summarised in Table I.
Although iPlayer is currently an over-the-top streaming ser-
vice using traditional CDNs, we use trace-driven simulations to
explore the potential advantage of a hybrid P2P CDN in com-
parison with a streaming-only CDN, in terms of its trafﬁc gain,
the fraction of the users’ trafﬁc that is ofﬂoaded from the server
via peer assistance. We ﬁrst investigate whether and to what
extent trafﬁc gain is affected by the above “obstacle factor s”—
ISP friendliness, partial participation, bitrate stratiﬁ cation and
asynchronicity in peer accesses, given the scale of iPlayer
and the consequent large swarming capacity, and the higher
availability of the “online while you watch” model. Next, we
explore the relationship between increasing content availability
and improvements in trafﬁc gain. Speciﬁcally, we compare
proactive approaches such as bundling [23] and reactive pul l-
based approaches such as caching, both of which have been
widely used to improve availability in peer-to-peer system s.
Our ﬁndings may be summarised as follows: A few highly
popular items (e.g., items with > 100K sessions) can obtain
gains of nearly 99% in the best case, and are hardly affected
by the obstacle factors. Less popular items are affected to
varying extents; unpopular items with about 1K sessions may
see a gain of less than 20% even in one of the Top-5 ISPs by
size. The “online while you watch” model is critical: Trafﬁc
gains can more than halve even for popular items, in the
presence of high bandwidth peers who can quickly download
an item and depart from the swarm. Among the obstacles
considered, partial participation affects gain the most si nce we
assume it uniformly decreases swarm size. Others obstacles are
less critical because they create one or two large sub-group s
from the original swarm; and large groups have sufﬁcient pee r
upload capacity, allowing for effective content interchange. For
example, dividing peers based on their ISP still creates sev eral
large swarms, which together account for a large proportion of
users and sessions. A surprising ﬁnding for us was that bitra te
changes are relatively uncommon, and two bitrates account f or
74% of sessions; thus rendering bitrate stratiﬁcation ineffective
as an obstacle.
As one corollary of the large sub-groups, gains across
the content corpus remain relatively high; up to 88% of
trafﬁc can be saved on average despite obstacles. The high
system-wide gains are also a result of skewed popularity—
the top 5% of items account for 80% of trafﬁc, allowing
large stable swarms of over 50 or 100 peers at a time even
after obstacle factors. Straightforward caching of a handf ul
(≤ 10) of recently watched objects is highly effective and
can improve swarming capacity by 10x on average across the
content corpus, translating to an up to 23% gain improvement .
Surprisingly, bundling, which has been shown to be highly
effective at improving availability [23], does not work wel l:
Bundling proactively increases availability by combining two
or more items. However, this creates larger downloads, increas-
ing server trafﬁc. For a majority of content item combinatio ns,
this increase is not offset by the decrease in server trafﬁc
resulting from additional availability of the content item . Even
where it saves server trafﬁc, the average delta gains are sma ll,
Variable Description
G trafﬁc gain from peer-assisted content delivery
Ts trafﬁc between system’s servers (or CDN edge
servers) and clients’ computers
Tu total amount of bytes watched in the system
ri peer arrival rate of content i
ui average session duration of content i
ci capacity (i.e., average number of users) of
content swarm i
li length of content i
β i bitrate of content i
E[Bi] expected duration of availability period of con-
tent i
Pi unavailability probability of content i
m minimum number of online peers required to
sustain a content swarm
TABLE II: Parameters of the analytical model
between 2%–7%.
II. T RAFFIC GAIN AND SWARM CAPACITY : A S IMPLE
ANALYTICAL MODEL
In this section, we quantify the gains in terms of server
trafﬁc reduction from deploying hybrid peer-assisted cont ent
distribution for CDNs, and how it changes as the system scales.
We ﬁrst develop intuition for the savings in (edge-) server
trafﬁc in the context of a single content swarm by introducin g
a simple model which relates the gain to the number of
users in the swarm, its capacity. We then extend this to an
expression for the gain across the entire corpus. Although w e
make simplifying assumptions for analytical tractability , §III
shows that the effects of various obstacle factors within ou r
dataset agree well with the model, in the sense that given
the decrease in peer upload capacity caused by a particular
factor, the decrease in trafﬁc gain as predicted by the model is
observed in practice. Table II lists the main parameters use d
in this and subsequent sections.
A. Trafﬁc Gain
We wish to understand the potential trafﬁc savings from
peer assistance, which we term as trafﬁc gain , or simply
gain. Formally, we denote with Ts the total ﬂow of client-
server trafﬁc in the system, i.e., the total amount of bytes
transferred from system’s servers (or CDN edge servers) to
clients’ computers, and with Tu the total amount of content
bytes watched by the users. In the case when a peer-assisted
hybrid CDN strategy is deployed, the content can be delivere d
to a user either from a content delivery node (i.e., from a
server) or from other users in the network (i.e., peers). To
measure the extent to which peers can ofﬂoad trafﬁc from the
content provider or CDN’s servers in a hybrid CDN setup, we
deﬁne the trafﬁc gain metric:
G = 1 − Ts
Tu
(1)
Clearly the gain will be 0 in traditional content delivery
when no peer assistance is exploited ( Ts = Tu) and will be
reaching values closer to 1 for the ideal hybrid CDN where
content access patterns are amenable to share content among st
peers. Note that G can be negative in certain situations, for
instance, if a server speculatively sends unrequested cont ent
items to peers in order to increase availability. This can

occur in strategies which employ pre-fetching or push-base d
content delivery, or when content items are bundled togethe r
to increase availability.
B. Swarm Capacity
We wish to study how trafﬁc gain evolves as the system
scales. We use the average number of peers in the system to
measure the scale of the system. We term this as the swarm
capacity or peer capacity. With more users in the swarm, there
are more peers to upload content to other peers, hence we also
interchangeably use the term peer upload capacity or simply
capacity.
Menasche et al. [23] model this self-scaling property of
peer-to-peer swarms by treating each swarm as a queuing
system with inﬁnite servers: users who arrive at a swarm do
not wait to be serviced, and can be served instantly by other
members of the swarm. A user who arrives when the swarm is
empty (or when there are too few peers to sustain swarming),
departs immediately without being serviced by the swarm (In
our case, this user is instead served by the edge servers of th e
CDN, and starts a new swarm).
Consider a swarm i for sharing a content item. Since there
is no queuing time, the average time spent by users in the
system is simply the average time spent watching the content ,
ui. If users arrive at an average rate ri, then according to
Little’s Law, the capacity can be written as
ci = uiri. (2)
C. Relating Capacity to Trafﬁc Gain
For the simple case when content items are only down-
loaded from the server when they are unavailable among
peers, server trafﬁc accounts for the portion of Tu for which
a sufﬁcient number of peers were unavailable to sustain P2P
delivery. Suppose Pi is the probability that there are no users in
the queuing system. If we assume that a minimum coverage of
m users is required to sustain a stable swarm (e.g., otherwise, a
part of the ﬁle may become unavailable with high probability
or the total upload bandwidth of seeding peers may not be
sufﬁcient to serve requesting peers), then deﬁne Pi as the
probability that the number of users drops below m. Then
we can write
Ts = Pi × Tu, (3)
and the gain becomes:
G = 1 − Pi (4)
For analytical tractability, we follow Menasche et al. and
consider the inﬁnite server queuing system as an M/G/ ∞
queue. It then follows from standard M/G/ ∞ results that:
Pi = 1
E[Bi]ri + 1 (5)
where E[Bi] is the expected duration of time periods during
which the content is available among the peers. Clearly, E[Bi]
depends on the arrival rate ri and the length of time intervals
uj
i during which users stay online. This relation, although not
trivial for the general case, can be expressed with a closed-
form solution for some speciﬁc distributions of uj
i . In this
current work, we assume that the time intervals during which
users stay online while watching content i, are exponentially
distributed with expectation ui. We can then employ [23,
Lemma 3.3] to derive an expression for E[Bi]:
E[Bi] = ui(1 + euiri (uiri)−m(mΓ( m) − Γ(1 + m, u iri)))
m (6)
where m is the minimum number of peers needed to sustain
a swarm, and Γ( x) and Γ( x, y ) are Gamma and incomplete
Gamma function, correspondingly. Substituting Eq. (6) int o
Eq. (5), and using Eq. 2, we can write G as a function of ci
and m:
G = 1 − ( ci(1 + ecic−m
i (mΓ( m) − Γ(1 + m, c i)))
m + 1)−1
(7)
Next, users interested in downloading content item i at
bitrate βi generate a trafﬁc of Tu = βiliri, where li is the
length of the item i and ri is the peer arrival rate as above.
Thus, when peer assistance is employed, the server trafﬁc
generated is
Ts = βiliriPi
= βili( ci(1 + ecic−m
i (mΓ( m) − Γ(1 + m, c i)))
m + 1)−1
(8)
D. Intuition for Single Swarm Performance
To drive intuition, we consider the simple case when only
one other peer is required to sustain the swarm (i.e., m = 1).
In this case, we obtain the simple relation G = 1 − e−ci. Thus
gain improves exponentially with capacity.
Similarly, when m = 1, we get Ts = βirilie−ci which has
a maximum at ci = 1 . Thus, server trafﬁc initially increases
as offered load, in terms of number of peers requesting the
item, increases. It reaches a maximum around when the swarm
becomes self-sustaining, with ci = 1 user on average within
the system. Any subsequent increase in peer numbers decreases
server trafﬁc as the swarm takes over the load.
E. Trafﬁc Gain Across Multiple Swarms
It is straightforward to measure gain across multiple
swarms analytically by taking the sum of server trafﬁc T i
s and
total trafﬁc T i
u across all swarms i being considered:
G = 1 −
∑
i[ β iliri
E[Bi]ri+1 ]
∑
i[βiliri] (9)
This can not only be used to get the gain across the entire
content corpus, but also to measure the effect of different
obstacle factors: When there are no obstacle factors considered,
there is one swarm per content item. ISP-friendliness and
bitrate stratiﬁcation create smaller swarms, one for each bitrate,
and one for each ISP. The smaller swarms have lower rates of
arrivals r1
i , r 2
i , . . . , such that ri = r1
i + r2
i + . . . .
The case of partial participation is slightly harder: only a
fraction α of peers are willing to upload, or equivalently, the
ratio of upload to download bandwidths of peers is α . This
decreases availability (or increases unavailability prob ability
to a value P ′
i ) equivalent to decreasing the rate of arrivals for
peer uploads to r′
i = α × ri. However, the actual rate of arrivals
still remains ri. Thus, we have a server trafﬁc of
T ′
s =
∑
i
[βiliriP ′
i ] =
∑
i
[ βiliri
E[B′
i]riα + 1 ] (10)

 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 0.01  0.1  1  10  100
gain
capacity
popular item (100K views)
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 0.01  0.1  1  10
gain
capacity
medium popular item (10K views)
bitrate stratification
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 0.01  0.1  1  10
gain
capacity
unpopular item (1K views)
gain
762 Kpbs 1500 Kpbs
gain
ISP-1 ISP-2 ISP-3 ISP-4 ISP-5
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 0.01  0.1  1  10  100
gain
capacity
popular item (100K views)
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 0.01  0.1  1  10
gain
capacity
medium popular item (10K views)
partial participation
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 0.01  0.1  1  10
gain
capacity
unpopular item (1K views)
gain
10% 20% 50% 100%
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 0.1  1  10
gain
capacity
popular item (100K views)
online while downloading
gain
capacity
100Mbps 50Mbps 10Mbps
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 0.1  1  10
gain
capacity
medium popular item (10K views)
minimum size of swarm
gain
capacity
 m=7 m=5 m=3 m=1
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 0.1  1  10
gain
capacity
unpopular item (1K views)
client-side caching
gain
p2p p2p+cache
Fig. 1: Trafﬁc gains estimated theoretically (black curve) and via simulations (points), for exemplar highly popular ( Left col.),
medium popular (Centre col.) and unpopular (Right col.) con tent items, across top 5 ISPs (different colours). Top row sh ows
effect of bitrate stratiﬁcation; middle row, partial parti cipation. Bottom row: Effect of—peers departing swarm afte r downloading
at various bandwidths, popular item (Bottom row, Left); inc reasing minimum swarm size, medium popular item (Bottom row ,
centre); adding caching support to an unpopular item (Botto m row, right). Middle and bottom rows use swarms for 1500 Kbps
rate. Bottom row assumes 100% participation rate.
 0.5
 0.55
 0.6
 0.65
 0.7
 0.75
 0.8
 0.85
 0.9
 0.95
 5  10  15  20  25  30
gain
day
ISP-1 sim.
ISP-1 theo.
ISP-4 sim.
ISP-4 theo.
ISP-5 sim.
ISP-5 theo.
(a) Daily gains of the entire content corpus
 0
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80  90  100
gain
% of discarded sessions
ISP-1
ISP-2
ISP-3
ISP-4
ISP-5
(b) Average gains with partial participation
 0
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10
gain
minimum number of peers to sustain a swarm
ISP-1
ISP-2
ISP-3
ISP-4
ISP-5
(c) Average gains with constraints on the min-
imum number of peers in swarms
Fig. 2: The aggregate trafﬁc gain for the entire corpus, acro ss various ISPs throughout the month of Sep 2013.

 0
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
1 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
cumulative share
percentage of content items ranked by popularity
sessions traffic
(a) Share of trafﬁc per content item
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
 0  5  10  15  20  25  30  35
average normalized number of views
days since release
(b) Temporal decay of number of
views per day across content items
Fig. 3: Popularity concentration: Many users are intereste d in
the same items at the same time.
where B′ is the expected duration of availability periods for
the swarm i with limited participation, and can be calculated
by substituting arrival rate with r′
i in Equation 6. Hence, the
gain for the partial participation case takes the form
G = 1 − T ′
s
Tu
= 1 −
∑
i [ β iliri
E[B′
i]riα +1 ]
∑
i [βiliri] (11)
We use Eq. 11 in the following section to assess the aggregated
trafﬁc gain ( Gtheo) in multi-swarm systems and validate by
comparing the corresponding results from simulations ( Gsim).
III. E MPIRICAL ANALYSIS
In this section, we empirically analyse trafﬁc gains in our
large trace, to complement the intuition derived from the model
of the previous section. We study the effect of various obsta cle
factors under workload paramaters derived from the trace.
A. Simulation details
We implemented an event-driven simulator where times-
tamps of events, i.e., start times and durations of user sess ions,
are taken from the BBC iPlayer trace. Our trace also provides
the bitrates for each session. Peers are assigned to swarms
based on their ISP and bitrate 1. On each simulation step,
we analyze the number of available peers in the network for
the content item being requested and make a decision on
whether the user session being processed can be served by
other peers or from the server. We conservatively estimate t hat
a peer can be served by the swarm of other peers accessing
the same content item at the same bitrate from the same
ISP, if we ﬁnd another concurrent user session in the swarm
who has been streaming for at least 10% of duration of the
content item. This threshold ensures that the serving peer c an
buffer sufﬁcient amount of content to satisfy the immediate
streaming requirements of the receiving peer (with an avera ge
download bandwidth of b = 18 . 7 Mpbs [25] the full length
of a content item with bitrate β = 762 Kbps or 1500 Kpbs
can be buffered by users in the time required for watching
the ﬁrst β/b ≈ 4% or 8% of a content item). Note that we
assume peer assignments can be managed centrally, similar t o
NetSession [32] and other managed swarming techniques [26] .
1Later in this section we show that bitrates are likely to remain stable during
individual sessions and typically feature values very close to the corresponding
maximum bitrate values. Therefore, in order to match bitrat e requirements of
individual peers, we map average per-session bitrates to th e closest out of
nine different maximum bitrates available in iPlayer and sp lit content swarms
accordingly.
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
ISP-1 ISP-2 ISP-3 ISP-4 ISP-5
cumulative share
 
users
IPs
sessions
traffic
Fig. 4: Share of trafﬁc per ISP
For calculating the availability of peers, we also assume an
“online while you watch model”, i.e., that the content is
available for upload from a peer if that peer is currently
watching the content 2.
In this simulation framework, we can calculate useful
trafﬁc Tu and server Ts trafﬁc generated in the network in
our simulation, and apply Equation 1 to calculate the gain
according to simulation, Gsim. To account for daily patterns
in users’ activity we ran simulations for individual days an d
compare the results with the theoretical estimations calcu lated
from Equation 7 (single swarm) and Equation 9 (multiple
swarms), i.e., Gtheo. Finally, we use Equation 2 to calculate
capacity ci of individual content swarms.
B. Effect of different obstacle factors on individual swarm s
Figure 1 shows the effect of different obstacle factors
on swarms of different sizes. Speciﬁcally, we consider thre e
different content items with various levels of popularity a nd
hence swarm sizes: an episode of the highly popular “Bad
Education” series which accounts for over 100K views in
September 2013 (Left column) and episodes of a medium
popular item, "Question Time" (Centre column), and an un-
popular item, "What’s to Eat" (right column) with around 10k
and 1k views, respectively. We analyze the gain of various
content swarms as a function of their capacity and measure
the trafﬁc gains in ISP-friendly swarms, when peer-to-peer
trafﬁc is localized inside ISPs. The top-5 ISPs by number of
sessions are considered. Within each ISP, peers watching at
different bitrates are separated from each other (Top row). We
also consider various levels of peers’ participation, whenonly a
portion of peers participate in peer-to-peer content distr ibution
(middle row).
Focusing ﬁrst on the top row : The highly popular item
is hardly affected by the obstacle factors, and gains remain
consistently high across all ISPs and bitrates–well over 90 %
of trafﬁc is saved as the capacity of the swarm remains high
even after taking the obstacle factors into account. Howeve r,
2Unlike “selﬁsh” ﬁle download techniques like BitTorrent [7], ensuring peer
availability whilst a video is being watched is straightfor ward in a streaming
model. Content buffered on the client can be protected by DRM , and securely
decoded by the video player at playback time only upon receiv ing permission
from the server. A simple mechanism, such as requiring regul ar heartbeats
back to the server in order for the player to show the video, ca n be used to
ensure that the user stays online and shares content while sh e watches the
video. Peers receiving content from this user can also indep endently verify
to the server that content is being shared, in order for the pl ayer to obtain
permission from the server to unlock the content.

No stratiﬁcation Stratiﬁcation
ISP Gsim Gtheo Gsim Gtheo
ISP-1 0.92 0.90 0.88 0.84
ISP-2 0.92 0.89 0.87 0.84
ISP-3 0.91 0.87 0.86 0.81
ISP-4 0.86 0.81 0.78 0.72
ISP-5 0.77 0.71 0.67 0.60
TABLE III: Trafﬁc gain across various ISPs with and without
bitrate stratiﬁcation
less popular items are affected to a greater extent. As we wil l
see later, 1500Kbps is the more popular than 762 Kbps; thus
gains are smaller for the smaller sized-swarms of 762 Kbps,
dropping down to less than 20% gain for the unpopular item.
Next the middle row : Observe in general that the gains
are lesser in the middle row than the top row, as participatio n
levels of less than 100% are considered. Also, observe that
again, the unpopular and medium popular items are affected
more than the popular item, where gains remain above 80%
even with only 10% of peers participating.
The bottom left panel of Figure 1 shows that the “online
while you watch” assumption is critical to the high gains
observed. Recall that we assume that users remain available to
upload content as long as they are watching content. Given
the relatively long duration of TV shows, we expect this
would greatly increase content availability and hence swarming
capacity. To test this assumption, we consider the effect of an
“online while downloading” scenario, of peers being able to
download at a bandwidth bi which is higher than the bitrate βi,
and then departing the swarm immediately after download. In
other words, we consider the effect of peers uploading conte nt
only for the duration min(ui, β i ∗ li/b i) rather than for their
entire period of watching the show, ui. The bandwidths bi
we consider (10Mbps, 50Mbps and 100Mbps) are all realistic
given current broadband rates in the UK [25]. The importance
of the “online while you watch” assumption can be seen from
the fact that even for the extremely popular item considered
in the bottom left panel, gains from peer assistance can more
than halve, and drop to nearly 30% for a top-5 ISP.
The middle panel of the bottom row in Figure 1 sum-
marises the effect of requiring a minimum swarm size m
for the medium popular item (similar effects are seen for
other items as well). This is a simpliﬁed test to account
for the known fact that small swarms are less stable [21]:
In small swarms, peer departure may permanently remove
some parts of the content item, requiring server assistance
to complete downloads. When we impose constraints on the
minimum number of peers in the system, gain quickly drops
considerably.
Finally, we note that simulation results across all exper-
iments are in good agreement with theoretical estimations
computed with Eq. 7 (i.e., black curve in plots) in all cases.
C. Aggregate trafﬁc gain across corpus
Having explored the space of obtainable gains with three
exemplar content items, we next present the aggregate gain
for all items in the content corpus in Figure 2. As we examine
each obstacle factor, we also attempt to explain the high gai ns
we see, in terms of the characteristics of the content corpus .
To start off, we observe that, as common in most content
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
480 762 796 800 816 1500 2800 other
share of sessions
Kbps
(a) share of trafﬁc per bitrate
 0
 0.05
 0.1
 0.15
 0.2
 0.25
 0.3
 0.35
 0.4
 1  10  100  1000  10000
CCDF
Kbps
max - avg avg - min
(b) deviations between max, min and
average bitrates in users’ sessions
Fig. 5: Bitrate characteristics across user sessions
corpora, there is a huge popularity skew, with the top 10% of
items accounting for over 80% of trafﬁc and sessions (Fig. 3a ).
Additionally, a majority of accesses happen just after a con tent
item has been released (Fig. 3b). Thus, although it is an on-
demand workload, we expect users to be interested in the
same popular items around the same time. These conditions
are conducive for large swarming capacity and high gains.
Fig. 2a shows the average daily gains across all items in
the content corpus. Gains remain high ( > 50%) for each of the
top-5 ISPs we consider, even after splitting by ISP 3. As shown
in Fig. 4, these ISPs together account for over 70% share by
any measure (users, IPs, sessions, trafﬁc), thus the majori ty of
system-wide gains are captured here. Also, observe that the
top two ISPs have a ≈ 24% trafﬁc share each, and the next
two 17% and 11% trafﬁc shares, correspondingly. This split
again creates conditions for relatively large swarms, help ing
keep gains high.
Next, in Table III we present the results of bitrate stratiﬁ-
cation across various IPSs. As with ISP friendliness, we not e
a remarkably high gain for the aggregated trafﬁc across all
considered ISPs. To explain this, we turn to Fig. 5. As shown
in Fig. 5a, two bitrates dominate, collectively accounting for
over 70% of sessions, and suggesting that rendering bitrate
stratiﬁcation is ineffective in decreasing swarm capacity : most
of the user sessions belong to the top 2 bitrates, keeping swarm
sizes high. Remarkably, we also observe that bitrates do not
change often during a session. Fig. 5b shows the Complemen-
tary Cumulative Distribution (CCDF) of the difference between
maximum and average bitrates, and average and minimum
bitrates, showing that only 35% have a non-zero difference;
thus for 65% of sessions, average bitrate = min bitrate = max
bitrate. Even when there is a difference, the average bitrat e
is closer to the maximum compared to the minimum. We
conjecture that this is a result of the relatively high downl oad
rates possible in today’s broadband networks, in compariso n
to the bitrates required for streaming (2800 Kbps is the max-
imum bitrate encoding used in iPlayer, compared to average
residential speed of 18.7 Mbps [25]). Thus, swarms split by
bitrate have a high likelihood of remaining stable, which ca n
also explain the ineffectiveness of bitrate stratiﬁcation .
Finally, as already shown for individual content items,
partial participation (Fig. 2b) and minimum swarm size re-
quirements (Fig. 2c) have a large impact on corpus-wide gain
in comparison with ISP-friendliness and bitrate stratiﬁca tion.
3Experiments in Fig. 2 are for sessions in the most popular bit rate, i.e.,
1500 Kpbs.

 0.06
 0.08
 0.1
 0.12
 0.14
 0.16
 0.18
 0.2
 0.22
 0.24
 0.26
 0.28
 2  3  4  5  6  7
share of bundles with positive gain
size of a bundle
ISP-1
ISP-2
ISP-3
ISP-4
ISP-5
(a) share of bundles with positive
trafﬁc savings
 0.025
 0.03
 0.035
 0.04
 0.045
 0.05
 0.055
 0.06
 0.065
 0.07
 2  3  4  5  6  7
average delta gain
size of a bundle
ISP-1
ISP-2
ISP-3
ISP-4
ISP-5
(b) average trafﬁc gains across con-
tent bundles
Fig. 6: Impact of content bundling on the trafﬁc gains for a
single bundle and for the system in whole
D. Implications and Notes about Generality
We observed, both at an individual content item level, and
at a system level, that relatively high trafﬁc gains are poss ible
in BBC iPlayer even if peer assisted content delivery is
required to be ISP-friendly. We believe this result could extend
to other countries, where similar dominance of a handful of
ISPs has been observed (e.g., Verizon and Comcast in the
USA). Similarly, the ineffectiveness of bitrate stratiﬁcation and
the relatively infrequent changes within a session, althou gh
initially surprising to us, may also extend to other setting s
where residential ISPs are relatively well provisioned in c om-
parison to the needs of streaming websites. This paints an
encouraging picture for the potential of peer-assisted streaming
of on-demand, long-duration content. At the same time, the
difﬁculties with partial participation and minimum swarm s ize
requirements indicate the need for further improving conte nt
availability, which we examine next.
IV. C ONTENT BUNDLING
Bundling can increase content availability. This idea has
been actively discussed in the recent peer-to-peer litera-
ture [23], [19], [31], [4], [3]. With bundling, individual content
swarms are combined in larger bundle swarms, therefore,
increasing the chance that bundled content is available amo ng
peers throughout the day. The impact of content bundling on
trafﬁc gains in peer-assisted hybrid CDNs is, though, uncle ar.
Intuitively, the size of a bundle grows as more content items
are added to it, therefore, inducing a trafﬁc overhead for
each download from the server (i.e., when content bundle is
not available among peers). In the extreme, a large bundle
of unpopular content items is never available among peers
yielding a trafﬁc overhead proportional to the total weight
of bundled items for each server request. In this section we
study the tradeoff between these two factors (i.e., the increased
availability and the server trafﬁc overhead induced by cont ent
bundling) and assess their impact on the overall trafﬁc savi ngs.
A. Analytical model for bundles
Formally, the aggregate arrival rate Rb and the weight (the
total number of bytes) Ω b of a content bundle grow as the
sum of the arrival rates and weights of individual content
items, i.e., Ω b = ∑ k
i=1 βili and Rb = ∑ k
i=1 ri, where k
is the size of a bundle, i.e., the number of items in it. In
contrast, the probability that a bundle is not available amo ng
peers (i.e., unavailability probability), decreases as th e product
of the corresponding probabilities Pi for individual items of
which it consists 4, i.e., P b = Π k
i=1Pi. Then, server trafﬁc T b
s
generated by a bundled swarm b can be calculated as a product
of these three components, i.e.:
T b
s = Ω bRbP b =
k∑
i=1
[βili]
k∑
i=1
[ri]Π k
i=1[Pi] (12)
To assess trafﬁc savings from a single bundle we compare
the server trafﬁc T b
s with the total server trafﬁc generated by
individual content swarms without bundling, i.e.:
∆ Ts =
k∑
i=1
T i
s − T b
s
=
k∑
i=1
[βiliriPi] −
k∑
i=1
[βili]
k∑
i=1
[ri]Π k
i=1[Pi] (13)
Finally, we measure the gain in the system when bundling
is enabled (Gb) and compare it with the benchmark result when
no bundling is used ( G). Formally we get:
∆ G = G − Gb = ∆ Ts
Tu
(14)
where Tu = ∑ k
i=1 βiliri is the total useful trafﬁc generated
by all content items in a bundle.
B. Trafﬁc gains from bundling
It is worth noting that content bundling has negative impact
on trafﬁc savings when the server trafﬁc of a bundle T b
s
exceeds the total server trafﬁc from individual content ite ms∑ k
i=1 T i
s. In Figure 6a, we consider all possible combinations
of items of a given size and estimate a share of those with
positive ∆ G. Only a minor share of item combinations, i.e.,
5 − 15% for combinations of two content items and 9 − 26%
for combinations of seven content items, lead to bundles wit h
positive trafﬁc gains. The choice of content items for bundl ing
is even more complicated by the fact that the arrival rates
ri of content items are not known before hand and, so, it is
not possible to estimate the trafﬁc savings ∆ G of the bundles
at the time the bundles are being formed. Figure 6b shows
the average delta gains obtained for the cases when positive
savings are obtained. The difference in gain from bundling
does not exceed more than 5− 7% even for very large bundles.
In summary, bundling appears to not add much additional
value, given the already large availability ensured by the “ on-
line while you watch” model. Bundling also creates addition al
feasibility concerns in a streaming-like setting. Among ot hers,
bundling assumes altruistic users willing to contribute th eir
trafﬁc and local storage for sharing content items which the y
may never watch. Similarly, we do not take into account
bandwidths required to download and share large content
bundles. Therefore, even the asymptotic delta gains of up to7%
achieved with our model for content bundling can be affected
by other factors.
4we assume that availability of various content items at a giv en time are
pairwise independent events and that each item belongs to on ly one bundle.

 0.7
 0.75
 0.8
 0.85
 0.9
 0.95
 1
 0  2  4  6  8  10
gain
number of items in cache
ISP-1
ISP-2
ISP-3
ISP-4
ISP-5
(a) trafﬁc gains with client-side caches
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
 0.9
 1
 1  10  100
CCDF
capacity increase factor for various content swarms
ISP-1 ISP-4 ISP-5
(b) factor by which capacity of various content
swarms increases with caching
 0
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10
gain
minimum number of peers to sustain a swarm
ISP-1
ISP-2
ISP-3
ISP-4
ISP-5
(c) trafﬁc gains with client-side caches and con-
straints on the minimum size of swarms
Fig. 7: Trafﬁc gains in peer-assisted CDNs with historic cac hes
V. H ISTORIC CACHES
Historic caching is another common mechanism to improve
content availability. Unlike content-bundling, caching i s a
reactive approach which doesn’t require any extra trafﬁc from
the server as additional availability is induced by the cont ent
which has been already seeded to peers. As a result we observe
that historic caches are extremely effective in this contex t.
A. Trafﬁc gains from caching
To determine the impact of historic caches on trafﬁc gains
we ran a modiﬁed version of simulator, in which k content
items recently watched by users are cached on their devices
and become available to fellow peers next time users come
online. In Figure 7a we plot the trafﬁc gains achieved with
these settings as a function of k. The trafﬁc gain increases by
3 − 12% when a single content item (the last item watched)
is cached by all users, and gradually grows as the number of
last-viewed items cached increases. We note that the result s
of experiments with unlimited caches show insigniﬁcant im-
provements, i.e., less than 2% across all ISPs, with respect to
the trafﬁc gains achieved with the size of cache limited to th e
k = 10 last-watched shows. This can be explained by the fact
that majority of the BBC iPlayer subscribers are occasional
users, i.e., 80% of users watch not more than 10 episodes, and
the average number of items in the unlimited cache setting does
not exceed k = 5. From Figure 7b we note that on average the
capacity of swarms with caching is increased by a factor of
× 10 with respect to the benchmark results when no caching
is used. More interestingly, the capacity increases even fo r the
swarms of unpopular content, such as the one we consider in
the bottom right plot of Figure 1.
B. Contributions of heavy users
To determine if the contributions of "heavy" users with
large caches create a bandwidth bottleneck in the system
when the extra content availability induced by caching is
concentrated around a small number of peers with limited
upload bandwidth, we ran experiments in which we impose
constraints on the number of peers required to support a
content swarm (i.e., parameter m in the model).
The results of the corresponding simulations are presented
in Figure 7c. We note that caching is extremely effective
even for the case when strict constraints are imposed on the
minimum number of users needed to sustain a swarm. In
comparison to the corresponding results without caching (i .e.,
Figure 2c), we see an increase of up to 20%. As a result, the
trafﬁc gain for the top ﬁve ISPs goes over the mark of 50%
even for m = 10 and reaches 78% for the largest ISP.
VI. R ELATED PAPERS
This paper contributes to a line of work [10], [11], [32],
[2] which has been investigating the feasibility of peer-assisted
or hybrid CDNs. We add to this literature by addressing the
feasibility of peer assisted streaming of long-duration co ntent,
one of the most important applications on the Internet today .
Traces from one of the largest deployments of on-demand
TV streaming provide a unique opportunity, showing that at
large scale , a simple “online while you watch” assumption
can dramatically improve the efﬁcacy of peer assistance, ev en
when various obstacle factors are considered.
Research into P2P protocols, especially BitTorrent, has
long considered obstacle factors which can degrade swarmin g
performance, including ISP-friendliness and locality [13], [17],
[8], and partial participation, which is similar to the conc ept
of free riding [1], [12], [29]. We borrow from this literatur e5,
adapting it to peer-assisted CDN swarms, and studying the
effect of scale and the “online while you watch” model in
comparison with the traditional “online while downloading ”
assumption. In addition, our comprehensive trace also allo ws
us to examine how the characteristics of workload affect
different obstacle factors.
Various analytical approaches were designed to model
content availability and peer-matching strategies as ways to
increase efﬁciency of P2P swarming. Among others, Liu et al.
proposed a model for optimal scheduling in a peer-assisted
distribution of user-generated content [20], Lev et al. [19]
analyzed optimal peering strategies using a game-theoreti cal
framework, and Menasche et al. [23] used inﬁnite service
queues to model content availability in peer-to-peer swarm s.
Increasing content availability with bundling was discuss ed
in [23], [15], [31], [4], [3], [9]. Particularly, Menasche et
al. [23] showed that the availability of content bundles de-
5It is worth noting that our concept of bitrate stratiﬁcation is different from
the concept of bandwidth stratiﬁcation as discussed in BitTorrent literature [8]:
the former assigns peers to different swarms based on current bitrate encoding,
whereas the latter arises as a result of BitTorrent unchoking mechanism, which
causes peers of similar download bandwidths to cluster [18] , even if they are
in different ISPs.

creases exponentially with the size of a bundle, whereas Han et
al. [9] reported that bundled content is generally more available
among BitTorrent seeders. We build on this work, extending
the work of Menasche et al. [23], and develop a model adapted
for peer-assisted CDNs. However, where Menasche et al. focus
on content availability, our focus is instead on gains or sav ings
in server trafﬁc. We also obtain an expression relating gain s to
the swarm capacity, which yields simple but important insights.
VII. C ONCLUSION
In this paper we studied trafﬁc gains from peer-assisted
streaming of long duration content. We developed a simple
analytical model relating the capacity of content swarms to
trafﬁc gains, both for individual swarms and aggregated gai ns
in a multi-swarm system. Further, we empirically examined the
trafﬁc gains from peer-assisted delivery of on-demand vide o
content using a month-long trace of accesses to BBC iPlayer
in London, comprising nearly 16 million sessions and over 2
million users. We studied behavior of the system in the pres-
ence of various design obstacles, i.e., isp-friendliness— when
content sharing is localized within ISPs, partial particip ation—
when only a part of users opt to re-distribute the content,
and bitrate stratiﬁcation—when there is a need of matching
peers with similar bandwidths, and revealed that up to 88% of
trafﬁc can be saved even despite the obstacles. Our ﬁndings
also suggest that when operating at scale, a simple “online
while you watch” model, when users stay online as long as
they are watching the content in a manner similar to the
user experience in today’s CDN/server-based streaming, ca n
be sufﬁcient to secure high gains for peer-assisted CDNs,
provided users contribute/upload to the swarm as long as the y
are watching the content.
We also investigated the impact of two well-known tech-
niques for improving content availability on the trafﬁc gai ns
and showed that bundling is not effective in this context as
the trafﬁc overhead from downloading large bundles surpass es
the beneﬁts of improved availability. In contrast, we obser ved
that a simple caching approach can boost the gain from peer-
assistance for up to 23%.
Our study focused on on-demand streaming of long dura-
tion content (TV shows), which are increasingly dominant in
current Internet. Thus, these results conﬁrm the enormous p o-
tential of peer-assistance in future content delivery scen arios.
REFERENCES
[1] E. Adar and B. A. Huberman. Free riding on gnutella. First Monday,
5(10), 2000.
[2] A. Balachandran, V . Sekar, A. Akella, and S. Seshan. Anal yzing
the potential beneﬁts of cdn augmentation strategies for in ternet video
workloads. In Proceedings of the IMC 2013, pages 43–56. ACM, 2013.
[3] N. Carlsson, G. Dan, D. Eager, and A. Mahanti. Tradeoffs i n cloud and
peer-assisted content delivery systems. In Proc. IEEE P2P , 2012.
[4] N. Carlsson, D. L. Eager, and A. Mahanti. Using torrent in ﬂation to
efﬁciently serve the long tail in peer-assisted content del ivery systems.
In NETWORKING 2010, pages 1–14. Springer, 2010.
[5] B. Cheng, L. Stein, H. Jin, X. Liao, and Z. Zhang. Gridcast : Improving
peer sharing for p2p vod. ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing,
Communications, and Applications (TOMCCAP) , 4(4):26, 2008.
[6] D. R. Choffnes and F. E. Bustamante. Taming the torrent: a practical
approach to reducing cross-isp trafﬁc in peer-to-peer syst ems. ACM
SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review , 38(4):363–374, 2008.
[7] B. Cohen. The bittorrent protocol speciﬁcation, 2008.
[8] R. Cuevas, N. Laoutais, X. Yang, G. Siganos, and P. Rodrig uez.
Bittorrent locality and transit trafﬁc reduction: When, wh y and at what
cost? IEEE Trans. Parallel and Distributed Systems , 25(5):1, 2013.
[9] J. Han, S. Kim, T. Chung, T. T. Kwon, H.-c. Kim, and Y . Choi. Bundling
practice in bittorrent: What, how, and why. In ACM SIGMETRICS
Performance Evaluation Review, volume 40, pages 77–88. ACM, 2012.
[10] C. Huang, J. Li, and K. W. Ross. Can internet video-on-de mand be
proﬁtable? 37(4):133–144, 2007.
[11] C. Huang, A. Wang, J. Li, and K. W. Ross. Understanding hy brid cdn-
p2p: why limelight needs its own red swoosh. In Proc. 18th NOSSDAV
workshop, pages 75–80. ACM, 2008.
[12] S. Jun and M. Ahamad. Incentives in bittorrent induce fr ee riding. In
Proceedings of the 2005 ACM SIGCOMM workshop on Economics of
peer-to-peer systems, pages 116–121. ACM, 2005.
[13] T. Karagiannis, P. Rodriguez, and K. Papagiannaki. Sho uld internet
service providers fear peer-assisted content distribution? In Proceedings
of the ACM IMC 2005 , pages 6–6. USENIX Association, 2005.
[14] S. Kaune, R. C. Rumin, G. Tyson, A. Mauthe, C. Guerrero, a nd
R. Steinmetz. Unraveling bittorrent’s ﬁle unavailability : Measurements
and analysis. In Proc. IEEE P2P 2010 , pages 1–9. IEEE, 2010.
[15] S. Kaune, G. Tyson, K. Pussep, A. Mauthe, and R. Steinmet z. The
seeder promotion problem: Measurements, analysis and solu tion space.
In Proceedings of the ICCCN-2010 , pages 1–8. IEEE, 2010.
[16] C. Labovitz, S. Iekel-Johnson, D. McPherson, J. Oberhe ide, and F. Ja-
hanian. Internet inter-domain trafﬁc. SIGCOMM, 2010.
[17] S. Le Blond, A. Legout, and W. Dabbous. Pushing bittorre nt locality
to the limit. Computer Networks, 55(3):541–557, 2011.
[18] A. Legout, N. Liogkas, E. Kohler, and L. Zhang. Clusteri ng and sharing
incentives in bittorrent systems. In ACM SIGMETRICS Performance
Evaluation Review, volume 35, pages 301–312. ACM, 2007.
[19] N. Lev-Tov, N. Carlsson, Z. Li, C. Williamson, and S. Zha ng. Dy-
namic ﬁle-selection policies for bundling in bittorrent-l ike systems. In
Proceeding of the IWQoS-2010 , pages 1–9. IEEE, 2010.
[20] Z. Liu, Y . Ding, Y . Liu, and K. Ross. Peer-assisted distr ibution of user
generated content. In Proc. IEEE P2P 2012 . IEEE, 2012.
[21] Z. Liu, C. Wu, B. Li, and S. Zhao. Why are peers less stable in
unpopular p2p streaming channels? In NETWORKING. 2009.
[22] Z. Liu, C. Wu, B. Li, and S. Zhao. Uusee: large-scale oper ational on-
demand streaming with random network coding. In INFOCOM, 2010
Proceedings IEEE, pages 1–9. IEEE, 2010.
[23] D. S. Menasche, A. de A Rocha, B. Li, D. Towsley, and A. Ven katara-
mani. Content availability and bundling in swarming system s. Net-
working, IEEE/ACM Transactions on , 21(2):580–593, 2013.
[24] Ofcom. Communications market report. Available from h ttp://goo.gl/
Fssn7X, July 2012.
[25] Ofcom. Average cable broadband speed overtakes ﬁbre. A vailable from
http://goo.gl/OHr7e5, November 2014.
[26] R. Peterson and E. G. Sirer. Antfarm: Efﬁcient content d istribution with
managed swarms. In NSDI, volume 9, pages 107–122, 2009.
[27] M. Piatek, H. V . Madhyastha, J. P. John, A. Krishnamurth y, and T. E.
Anderson. Pitfalls for isp-friendly p2p design. In HotNets, 2009.
[28] Sandvine. Global internet phenomena report, 1h 2012, M ay 2012.
[29] M. Sirivianos, J. H. Park, R. Chen, and X. Yang. Free-rid ing in bittorrent
networks with the large view exploit. In IPTPS, 2007.
[30] H. Xie, Y . R. Yang, A. Krishnamurthy, Y . G. Liu, and A. Sil berschatz.
P4p: provider portal for applications. In ACM SIGCOMM Computer
Communication Review, volume 38, pages 351–362. ACM, 2008.
[31] S. Zhang, N. Carlsson, D. Eager, Z. Li, and A. Mahanti. Dy namic ﬁle
bundling for large-scale content distribution. In Proc. IEEE LCN, 2012.
[32] M. Zhao, P. Aditya, A. Chen, Y . Lin, A. Haeberlen, P. Drus chel,
B. Maggs, B. Wishon, and M. Ponec. Peer-assisted content dis tribution
in akamai netsession. In Proc˙IMC 2013, pages 31–42. ACM, 2013.