arXiv:2504.08314v1  [cs.NI]  11 Apr 2025
CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty
TOMER KENIAGIN, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Israel
EITAN YAAKOBI, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Israel
ORI ROTTENSTREICH, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Israel
Set reconciliation is a fundamental task in distributed systems, particularly in blockchain networks, where it
enables synchronization of transaction pools among peers and facilitates block dissemination. Traditional
set reconciliation schemes are either statistical, offering success probability as a function of communication
overhead and symmetric difference size, or require parametrization and estimation of that size, which can be
error-prone. We present CertainSync, a novel reconciliation framework that, to the best of our knowledge, is
the first to guarantee successful set reconciliation without any parametrization or estimators. The framework
is rateless and adapts to the unknown symmetric difference size. Reconciliation is guaranteed whenever the
communication overhead reaches a lower bound derived from the symmetric difference size and universe size.
Our framework builds on recent constructions of Invertible Bloom Lookup Tables (IBLTs), ensuring successful
element listing as long as the number of elements is bounded. We provide a theoretical analysis proving the
certainty of reconciliation for multiple constructions. Our approach is validated by simulations, showing the
ability to synchronize sets with efficient communication costs while maintaining guarantees compared to
baseline schemes. To further reduce overhead in large universes such as blockchain networks, CertainSync is
extended with a universe reduction technique. We compare and validate this extension, UniverseReduceSync,
against the basic framework using real Ethereum transaction hash data. Results show a trade-off between lower
communication costs and maintaining guarantees, offering a comprehensive solution for diverse reconciliation
scenarios.
CCS Concepts: • Networks→ Network algorithms; Network protocol design.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Set Reconciliation; Coding Theory; Blockchain Applications
1 INTRODUCTION
Set reconciliation is essential for synchronizing data across systems like cloud storage services [22],
Peer-to-Peer (P2P) networks [5], distributed computing [27], and blockchain networks [30]. Instead
of directly exchanging set elements, which incurs high communication overhead O(|𝐴|+| 𝐵|)
for sets𝐴 and𝐵, reconciliation protocols use compact representations based on coding theory
and probabilistic data structures (sketches). These representations enable efficient identification
of symmetric differences with lower communication costs. For instance, in blockchain networks,
efficient reconciliation enables light clients to synchronize their transaction pools and blockchain
states effectively, as seen in protocols like MempoolSync [16] and SREP [3]. Additional reconciliation
applications in fields like collaborative editing and distributed databases are detailed in Appendix A.
Moreover, data consistency (via guaranteed identification of symmetric differences), as in
blockchain systems, is crucial. Reconciliation schemes fall into two main categories: probabilistic
and exact. Probabilistic approaches, such as Rateless IBLT [39] or with Cuckoo filter [23, 24], offer
low overhead but risk occasional failures in identifying symmetric differences. Exact schemes, like
CPISync [37] and PinSketch [9], guarantee the success of identifying symmetric differences by
relying on symmetric difference size estimation or an upper bound, which can be computationally
expensive and prone to errors. Additionally, existing reconciliation schemes often involve complex
parameter tuning as in Graphene [30] for set reconciliation among peers in blockchains and related
distributed systems, where there is a parameter search algorithm based on input parameters given,
or estimations such as Strata Estimator in Difference Digest [11] for set difference size estimation. In
Authors’ addresses: Tomer Keniagin, tkeniagin@campus.technion.ac.il, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa,
Israel; Eitan Yaakobi, yaakobi@cs.technion.ac.il, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel; Ori Rottenstreich,
or@technion.ac.il, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel.

2 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
Low
Medium
High Low
Medium
High
CertainLow
Medium
High
Better
BetterBetter
CertainSync
Parametrization and/orEstimation (i.e. Symmetric Diff. Size)
Certainty of Success
Rateless
Adaptability
CertainSync
CPI
Graphene
Difference Digest
Cuckoo Filter
Rateless IBLT
LFFZ IBLT
Ideal Method (Theoretical)
Fig. 1. Comparison of set reconciliation schemes based on three metrics: (i) parametrization tuning and/or
symmetric difference size estimation overhead (lower is better), (ii) certainty of success (higher is better),
and (iii) rateless adaptability (higher is better) indicates efficiency by dynamically adapting to varying set
differences while minimizing communication overhead and retransmissions. A detailed explanation of the
parameters and estimators used for each scheme is presented in Table 4 in Appendix B.
large-scale or real-time set reconciliation applications, where simplicity, scalability, and low latency
are prioritized, parametrization and estimators, which incur significant overhead and complexity,
should be avoided. This work introduces a novel reconciliation framework called CertainSync
that combines two desirable properties: (i) simplicity, with no parameter tuning or difference
size estimation, and (ii) guaranteed success in computing symmetric differences through rateless
transmission. Fig. 1 illustrates how our approach achieves these goals, ensuring both robustness
and efficiency. Our focus is on guaranteeing successful set reconciliation in a parameterless manner,
making this the first work to introduce this concept.
CertainSync can be tuned with one of three proposed constructions based on which elements are
mapped to the IBLTs. Table 1 summarizes the basic properties of the three constructions as a function
of the following parameters: (i) universe size from which elements can appear (𝑛), and (ii) size of
the symmetric difference (|Δ|). Each construction is characterized by (i) the maximum supported
symmetric difference size (|Δ|max), (ii) the incremental communication overhead per single element
increase in the symmetric difference size (Δ𝑚𝑑), and (iii) the total communication overhead (𝑚𝑑).
In Table 1, the total communication overhead refers to the number of IBLT cells required for
synchronization. Throughout the paper, the comparison of set reconciliation schemes is measured
in bits, derived from the respective bit size of an individual IBLT cell, with additional overhead bits
as necessitated by the distinct requirements of each scheme. To evaluate the characteristics of our
proposed framework, we conduct experiments using datasets that include sets of positive numbers
to mimic the transaction pools in blockchain systems. Our experimental results demonstrate that
our framework successfully computes the symmetric difference with certainty, and communication
overhead is determined by a bound derived from the symmetric difference size and the universe size.
Since this bound depends on the universe size, which can be large, it may result in inefficiencies in
large-scale settings like blockchain networks. We mitigate this issue by extending our framework
to include an optional universe size reduction. We provide a comprehensive comparative analysis
of existing set reconciliation schemes compared to our proposed framework. Also, we apply our
framework in the Ethereum blockchain with real blockchain data to synchronize transaction pools.
The notations used throughout the paper are presented in Table 5 in Appendix C. We make available

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 3
Table 1. Proposed constructions for CertainSync and their inherent properties. 𝑑 represents the symmetric
difference size (|Δ|) and𝑛 indicates the universe size.
CertainSync
Construction
Max Symmetric
Difference Size
|Δ|𝑚𝑎𝑥
Incremental Communication
Overhead
Δ𝑚𝑑 (Eq. (1))
Total Communication
Overhead
𝑚𝑑
Construction I
EGH [10]
(Subsection 4.1)
𝑛 𝑂

𝑑 log𝑛
log𝑑+log log𝑛

𝑂

𝑑 2 log2𝑛
log𝑑+log log𝑛

Construction II
OLS [33]
(Subsection 4.2)
⌈√𝑛⌉ ⌈√𝑛⌉ 𝑑⌈√𝑛⌉
Construction III
Extended Hamming [12]
(Subsection 4.3)
3 ⌈log2𝑛⌉ (𝑑− 1)⌈ log2𝑛⌉+ 1
the implementation of CertainSync developed in Python and Go as an open source on GitHub1. It
includes algorithms implementations, datasets and test scripts for reproducibility.
2 BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
2.1 Set Reconciliation
In set reconciliation, two or more parties hold finite sets and aim to learn the elements missing from
each other’s sets. Set reconciliation often utilizes the symmetric difference operation to efficiently
identify and reconcile discrepancies between sets. Key performance metrics for evaluating set
reconciliation schemes include: (i) decoding accuracy (probability of correctly identifying the sym-
metric difference), (ii) communication efficiency (minimizing total communication overhead), (iii)
scalability (minimizing additional communication overhead as symmetric difference size increases),
(iv) computation overhead (processing requirements at each party), and (v) total reconciliation time
(the time required until the sets are fully reconciled) are of great interest. However, the primary
focus is on decoding accuracy and communication overhead, as less system-independent factors (e.g.
network bandwidth, compute capabilities), offering a more general basis for evaluation of different
set reconciliation schemes. It is noteworthy that computing the union of sets is a fundamental
operation that can be executed by any participant involved in the set reconciliation process. We
denote by Δ the symmetric difference of two considered sets.
Definition 2.1 (Symmetric Difference). The symmetric difference for two sets𝐴 and𝐵 refers to
elements that appear in one set and not in the other set, namely Δ =(𝐴\𝐵)∪( 𝐵\𝐴).
For example, given two sets𝐴 ={1, 2, 3, 4} and𝐵 ={3, 4, 6, 7}, the symmetric difference consists
of elements in𝐴 but not in𝐵 (𝐴\𝐵 ={1, 2}) and elements in𝐵 but not in𝐴 (𝐵\𝐴 ={6, 7}). Thus,
the symmetric difference is Δ =(𝐴\𝐵)∪( 𝐵\𝐴) ={1, 2, 6, 7}.
2.2 Invertible Bloom Lookup Table (IBLT) and its Applications
Sketches, such as Bloom Filter (BF) [2] and Count-Min [7], provide space-efficient, probabilistic
representations of sets. These methods trade off some accuracy for substantial gains in efficiency
1https://github.com/toto9820/Rateless-Set-Reconciliation-with-Listing-Guarantees

4 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
and scalability, making them suitable for applications where approximate results are acceptable. An
IBLT [14] is another sketch type that combines efficiency with the ability to identify the elements
inserted into it probabilistically. An IBLT consists of a fixed-size array of cells, where each cell
contains the following fields: (i) count, an integer representing the number of elements mapped
to this cell, (ii) xorSum, the XOR of all elements mapped to this cell, and (iii) checkSum, the XOR
of the hash values of all elements mapped to this cell. The operations supported by an IBLT are
insertion for adding an element to an IBLT, deletion for removing an element from an IBLT, and
listing for retrieving elements from an IBLT. An important concept in IBLT listing is a pure cell.
This is a cell that contains a single inserted element. A pure cell is identifiable by containing only
one element mapped to it. The listing procedure repeatedly searches for a pure cell and identifies
the element based on the xorSum field when found. The identified element is then removed from
other cells it is mapped to, reducing the remaining elements in those cells. The process fails if no
pure cells are found before listing all elements.
In this paper, we mainly focus on set reconciliation approaches based on IBLTs. IBLTs offer
several advantages for set reconciliation: they provide a compact representation of sets, allowing for
minimal communication of set differences [11], they support the insertion and deletion of elements,
and there is support for listing elements with success probability. By exchanging IBLT sketches,
parties can reconcile their sets efficiently. IBLTs could represent elements that are present in one
set but absent in the other, as demonstrated in Difference Digest [11] by the subtraction operation.
However, they have a major drawback - the listing is not guaranteed to succeed as there is a success
probability derived from the number of elements inserted into the IBLT and the IBLT memory size
represented as its number of cells. The listing success probability of an IBLT, as shown in [14], is
almost 1 (1−𝑜(1)) if the ratio between the number of available cells and the number of inserted
elements exceeds a certain threshold𝑐ℎ, whereℎ is the number of hash values. In contrast, if the
ratio falls below 𝑐ℎ, as described in [ 19], partial listing (namely partial extraction representing
listing success probability less than 1) becomes more likely. However, a small number of iterative
executions of partial listing can eventually achieve a full listing of all elements inserted in the IBLT.
2.3 Concepts in Coding Theory and Bloom Filters
For any positive integer𝑘, we define[𝑘] B{1,...,𝑘 } and[𝑘]0 B{0,...,𝑘 −1}, and these notations
are used consistently throughout the paper to represent sets.
2.3.1 Bloom Filter with FPFZ. Bloom filter with a FPFZ (False Positive Free Zone) [18] is a specific
Bloom filter construction where for a set of up to𝑑 elements from a finite universe𝑈 , membership
queries return true if and only if an element is actually in the set, thus guaranteeing no false
positives and no false negatives for any membership queries.
2.3.2 EGH & EGH Bloom Filter. The Eppstein, Goodrich, and Hirschberg (EGH) method [10] was
originally developed for group testing by leveraging properties of modular arithmetic and the
Chinese Remainder Theorem. However, this method has been adapted for various applications,
including Bloom filters [ 18] with EGH filter. In the context of Bloom filters, the EGH method
establishes an upper bound 𝑑 on the maximum number of inserted elements for which a FPFZ
is guaranteed. This upper bound is related to the size of the universe 𝑛 and a product of prime
numbers, expressed as𝑑≤ log𝑛 Π𝑘 = ˝𝑘
𝑗=1 log𝑛𝑝𝑗, where Π𝑘≜ ˛𝑘
𝑗=1𝑝𝑗 is the product of the first
𝑘 prime numbers, and𝑝𝑗 represents the𝑗-th prime number (𝑝1 = 2,𝑝 2 = 3,𝑝 3 = 5,... ).
2.3.3 OLS & OLS Bloom Filter. Orthogonal Latin Square (OLS) codes [15] have been widely studied
to protect memories from errors, as they have a modular construction and can be decoded in parallel
with simple circuitry [32]. A Latin square of order𝑛 is an𝑛×𝑛 array filled with𝑛 different symbols

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 5
where each symbol belongs to the set[𝑛]0, and each symbol occurs exactly once in each row and
exactly once in each column [17] as shown in Fig. 2(a). Two Latin squares are orthogonal if, when
superimposed, each ordered pair of symbols appears exactly once as shown in Fig. 2(b). A set of
Latin squares of the same order such that every pair of squares is orthogonal is called Mutually
Orthogonal Latin Squares (MOLS); it is denoted by MOLS(𝑛) where𝑛 is the order of the Latin
squares. The maximum size of MOLS(𝑛), as shown in [17] (Theorem 5.1.2), is at most𝑛− 1. A set
of𝑛− 1 MOLS(𝑛) is called a complete set of MOLS. When𝑛 is a prime power, we are guaranteed to
have at least one complete set of MOLS(𝑛), as stated in [17] (Theorem 5.2.3). OLS filter is a Bloom
filter constructed using OLS code [33]. Besides using MOLS, two additional special matrices (which
are not Latin squares) are used for the construction of the filter. One of the two additional special
matrices used later we notate as 𝑅𝑛, where each of its rows consists of a single repeated value,
ranging from 0 to𝑛− 1. Specifically, the𝑖-th row of𝑅𝑛 matrix is filled with the value𝑖− 1 for all
columns, as illustrated in Fig. 2(c). The second special matrix is its transpose𝑅𝑇
𝑛 .
0 1 2 3 4 0 1 2 3 4
1 2 3 4 0 2 3 4 0 1
2 3 4 0 1 4 0 1 2 3
3 4 0 1 2 1 2 3 4 0
4 0 1 2 3 3 4 0 1 2
(a) Two Latin squares of order 5.
0,0 1,1 2,2 3,3 4,4
1,2 2,3 3,4 4,0 0,1
2,4 3,0 4,1 0,2 1,3
3,1 4,2 0,3 1,4 2,0
4,3 0,4 1,0 2,1 3,2
(b) Superposition of two Latin
squares.
0 0 0 0 0
1 1 1 1 1
2 2 2 2 2
3 3 3 3 3
4 4 4 4 4
(c) Additional matrix𝑅5 for OLS
construction.
Fig. 2. Latin squares, superposition, and additional matrix for constructing OLS code.
2.3.4 Extended Hamming Code. An Extended Hamming code is an Error Correcting Code (ECC)
that extends the standard Hamming code by adding an extra parity bit to have a 1-bit error-correcting
or 3-bit error-detecting code.
Definition 2.2 (Extended Hamming Code). An Extended Hamming code is a linear code denoted
by(𝑛 = 2𝑚,𝑘 = 2𝑚−𝑚− 1,𝑑𝐻 = 4), where𝑛 is the codeword length;𝑘 is the information length
(the dimension);𝑑𝐻 is the minimum Hamming distance between any two codewords, and𝑚≥ 2 is
a positive integer. The parity check matrix𝐻𝑛 of the Extended Hamming code is the following:
𝐻𝑛 =
"
1 1 1 ··· 1 1
𝐻
′
𝑛
#
, 𝐻
′
𝑛 =

0 0 0 ··· 1 1
... ... ... ... ... ...
0 0 1 ··· 1 1
0 1 0 ··· 0 1

.
where the matrix𝐻
′
𝑛 consists of all the 2𝑚 binary column vectors of length𝑚 = log2(𝑛).
2.3.5 Stopping Set. A stopping set [8] is a combinatorial structure, originally defined in the context
of matrices for the decoding procedure of error-correcting codes [35].
Definition 2.3 (Stopping Set). Let𝑀 be a matrix and𝑆 a non-empty set of its columns. The row’s
weight in the sub-matrix implied by𝑆 is defined as the number of non-zero coordinates in it.𝑆 is
called a stopping set if it has no row of weight one. The stopping distance of𝑀, denoted by𝑠(𝑀),
is the size of the smallest stopping set in𝑀.

6 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
2.4 Blockchain Application of Set Reconciliation
Set reconciliation plays a crucial role in various applications, and one prominent application is
in blockchain networks. Blockchain networks rely on efficient and reliable synchronization of
transactions from transaction pools (TxPools) and newly mined blocks (block propagation process)
between peers, as illustrated in Fig. 3 to maintain consensus and ensure the integrity for proper
functioning. IBLTs play an important role in blockchain networks by enabling efficient represen-
BP
TxPool TxPool
TxPool TxPool
TxPool
Ledger Ledger
Ledger Ledger
Ledger
Block X Block Y
Tx ATx B
Tx C
Fig. 3. Blockchain network modeled as a peer-to-peer (P2P) system where each peer maintains a local ledger
(immutable chain of blocks) and a transaction pool (TxPool). Peers synchronize transactions and mined blocks
to achieve consensus across the network.
tation and reconciliation of transaction pools and blocks between peers, significantly reducing
communication overhead as demonstrated in Graphene [30] for interactive set reconciliation in
blockchain networks. Various protocols have been proposed for the synchronization of transac-
tion pools outside (and independently) of the block propagation channel [ 3, 16, 21] due to long
block transmission time and block validation time like SREP [ 3], which leverages out-of-band
synchronization of transaction pools, ensuring that only differences between transaction pools are
exchanged to minimize communication overhead.
2.5 Rateless Coding & IBLT
Rateless coding, also known as fountain coding, enables efficient and reliable data transmission over
unreliable or lossy channels. Unlike traditional fixed-rate coding schemes, rateless codes do not
have a predetermined rate or block length. Instead, an unlimited number of encoded symbols are
generated from the original data, allowing the recipient to recover the original data by collecting a
sufficient number of these encoded symbols, regardless of which specific symbols are received.
Definition 2.4 (Rateless Coding). LetS be the original data of size𝑘 symbols, andC ={𝑐1,𝑐 2,...,𝑐 𝑛}
be the set of encoded symbols generated by the rateless code. Recipient can reconstructS from
any subsetC′⊆C such that|C′|≥ 𝑡(𝑘), where𝑡(𝑘) is a threshold function dependent on the size
𝑘 of the original data and determined by the specific coding scheme.
Rateless coding has been recently applied to the problem of set reconciliation [39]. In this work,
the authors propose a rateless set reconciliation protocol based on the original IBLT approach
with hash functions. Instead of encoding a set into a fixed-size IBLT, the rateless IBLT approach
generates an unbounded stream of IBLT cells as coded symbols. Participant 1 can continuously
transmit these coded symbols until Participant 2 has collected enough IBLT cells to decode the
set difference successfully. In Definition 2.4,𝑘 represents the symmetric difference size|Δ|. Also,
Lázaro et al. [20] proposed a rateless solution based on a variant of IBLT named MET IBLT.

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 7
2.6 Listing Failure Free Zone (LFFZ) IBLT
One significant challenge in set reconciliation is ensuring that all the set elements are correctly
identified, known as the listing guarantee. Traditional methods often fail to provide this guarantee
due to their inherent false positive rate. Schemes to provide this listing guarantee have been
proposed in the past: Bloom filters with a trie-based mechanism for eliminating false positives [34],
changing the traditional decoding method with pure cells by asserting an extra pure cell condition
[6], an additional stash data structure based on error correcting codes, which serves as a backup
when IBLT fails to decode correctly [ 1], and replacing the random hash functions for mapping
elements of the set to IBLT cells, which contribute to the probabilistic nature of the IBLT, with
multiple constructions that are based on various coding techniques [28]. The concept of IBLTs with
a Listing Failure Free Zone (LFFZ) [28], provides a guarantee of successful listing for all sets up to a
certain size parameter𝑑, thereby enhancing the reliability and robustness of IBLTs. An(𝑛,𝑑)-LFFZ
IBLT is defined as follows:
Definition 2.5 ((𝑛,𝑑)-LFFZ). Let𝑈 =[𝑛] be a finite universe of size 𝑛, and let𝑆⊆ 𝑈 be a set
of size at most 𝑑. If an (n, d)-LFFZ IBLT is constructed to encode the set 𝑆, then the decoding
process is guaranteed to successfully list all elements in𝑆, regardless of the specific elements or
their distribution within the universe𝑈 .
LFFZ IBLTs rely on several combinatorial and recursive methods for their construction. They
use a binary mapping matrix𝑀 of size𝑚×𝑛 to map elements of a set to cells in an IBLT, instead of
using hash functions as in the original IBLT [14].
Definition 2.6 (Binary Mapping Matrix 𝑀). A binary mapping matrix𝑀 of size𝑚×𝑛 is used to
map elements of a set to cells in an IBLT. Each row of the matrix corresponds to a cell of an IBLT,
and each column corresponds to an element in the universe. The entry𝑀[𝑖][𝑗] indicates whether
the 𝑗-th element is mapped to the𝑖-th cell, with𝑀[𝑖][𝑗] = 1 if the element is mapped to the cell,
and𝑀[𝑖][𝑗] = 0 otherwise.
An important concept from [28] assures that for any set 𝑆 of at most𝑑 elements from𝑈 , the
mapping matrix𝑀 does not contain any stopping set of size at most𝑑. This leads to the definition
of a𝑑-decodable matrix.
Definition 2.7 (𝑑-decodable matrix). An𝑚×𝑛 binary matrix𝑀 is called𝑑-decodable if its stopping
distance is at least𝑑+ 1, that is,𝑠(𝑀)≥ 𝑑+ 1. Given𝑛,𝑑∈ N, with𝑑≤𝑛, the minimal number of
rows of a𝑑-decodable matrix is denoted by𝑚∗(𝑛,𝑑), that is,
𝑚∗(𝑛,𝑑) = min

𝑚 :∃𝑀∈{0, 1}𝑚×𝑛,𝑀 is𝑑-decodable
	
.
From the definition of a 𝑑-decodable matrix, it follows that any 𝑑-decodable matrix is also a
(𝑑− 1)-decodable matrix.
3 SET RECONCILIATION USING THE CertainSync FRAMEWORK
In the CertainSync framework, we utilize the constructions of𝑑-decodable rateless matrices (where
𝑑 =|Δ|) from Section 4 as mapping matrices. These matrices map elements to IBLT cells, enabling
set reconciliation with certainty. The certainty guarantees the listing success in retrieving the
symmetric difference Δ under certain conditions without knowing the size of the symmetric
difference|Δ| in advance.
3.1 Two-Party Problem for the CertainSync Framework
Let𝑈 =[𝑛] be a finite universe of size𝑛, and let𝑆1,𝑆 2⊆𝑈 be the sets held by Participant 1 (𝑃1)
and Participant 2 (𝑃2), respectively. Given a𝑑-decodable rateless matrix𝑀𝑛,𝑑 of size𝑚×𝑛, where𝑚,

8 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
which depends on the unknown symmetric difference size, is the finite number of cells in an IBLT.
𝑃1 constructs IBLT1 from set𝑆1 according to the mapping defined by𝑀𝑛,𝑑, and then sends IBLT1
cells to𝑃2 in a rateless manner. The objective is to construct an IBLT of the symmetric difference
(IBLT{Δ}) at𝑃2 by performing the subtraction of the IBLTs of𝑃2 and𝑃1, with the guarantee that
the listing operation at𝑃2 successfully recovers all elements in Δ. Upon successful recovery of Δ,
𝑃2 could transmit the required subset𝑆2\𝑆1 of Δ to𝑃1 to achieve complete set reconciliation.
3.2 Set Reconciliation with Certainty
A set reconciliation with certainty is a more stringent variant of exact set reconciliation, where
the goal is not only to fully recover the symmetric difference between two sets, but also to do so
without prior knowledge of the size of the symmetric difference, defined formally as follows:
Definition 3.1 (Set Reconciliation with Certainty). Given two participants𝑃1 and𝑃2 holding sets
𝑆1,𝑆 2⊆𝑈 respectively, where𝑈 =[𝑛] is a finite universe of size𝑛. Set reconciliation with certainty
is achieved if it correctly recovers the symmetric differenceΔ =(𝑆1\𝑆2)∪( 𝑆2\𝑆1) with probability
1, succeeds in recovery without requiring prior knowledge of the symmetric difference size|Δ|,
and terminates after a finite number of steps.
IBLT1 Cells
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
P1: Participant 1 P2: Participant 2
IBLT2
Cells
IBLTs
Cells
Subtract
Listing
Success ?
IBLT1
Cells
Estimation of symmetric diff. size
IBLT1 Cells
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Send Again/Stop ?
(a) Traditional Set Reconciliation
IBLT1 Cells
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
P1: Participant 1 P2: Participant 2
IBLT2
Cells 1 , 2
IBLTs
Cells 1 , 2
Subtract
Listing
Failure !
IBLT2
Cells 3 , 4, 5
IBLTs
Cells 1 to 5
Subtract
Listing
Success !
IBLT1
Cells 1 , 2
IBLT1
Cells 3 , 4, 5
IBLT1 Cells 1,2 (Iteration 1)
1 2
Continue
IBLT1 Cells 3,4,5 (Iteration 2)
3 4 5
Stop (b) Set Reconciliation with CertainSync
Fig. 4. Illustration of traditional set reconciliation vs. CertainSync.
In the CertainSync framework, set reconciliation with certainty is achieved by leveraging 𝑑-
decodable rateless matrices, which enable set reconciliation without prior knowledge of the symmet-
ric difference size and termination in a finite number of steps. Fig. 4(a) illustrates the traditional set
reconciliation as described in Algorithm 2 in Appendix D, showing how the IBLTs of the participants
are constructed with a fixed number of cells based on estimation and/or parametrization, and the
probabilistic listing of their subtraction to determine the symmetric difference between them with
success probability. In our set reconciliation framework, as described in Fig. 4(b), using CertainSync,
Participant 1 constructs at each iteration an amount (according to chosen construction) of IBLT1

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 9
cells representing its set and transmits it to Participant 2. There is no estimation of the symmetric
difference size at any point like in the traditional set reconciliation. At each iteration, Participant 2
constructs the same amount of cells received from Participant 1, and checks if they have enough
total cells to ensure the success of the listing of IBLT{Δ} to find the symmetric difference between
the two sets with certainty (success probability of 1). If so, Participant 2 tells Participant 1 to stop
sending cells, and lists successfully all the elements in IBLT{Δ} to find the symmetric difference
between the two sets with certainty.
3.3 Applications for CertainSync Constructions
Constructions of CertainSync and their extended variants with universe reduction (UniverseRe-
duceSync, presented in Section 6) are tailored to address various scenarios detailed in Table 2,
therefore offering a comprehensive solution for set reconciliation with certainty. Intuitively, Cer-
Table 2. Comparison of proposed CertainSync constructions and their practical applications.
Property
CertainSync
Construction
Construction I
EGH [10]
(Subsection 4.1)
Construction II
OLS [33]
(Subsection 4.2)
Construction III
Extended Hamming [12]
(Subsection 4.3)
Purpose Unbounded Symmetric
Difference Size
Medium Symmetric Difference Size
& Large Bounded Universe
Small Symmetric
Difference Size
Key Advantage Flexible Symmetric
Difference
Improved Communication
Overhead Scalability
Low Communication
Overhead
Small Universe Compatible ✓ CertainSync ✓ CertainSync ✓ CertainSync
Medium Universe Compatible ✓ CertainSync ✓ CertainSync
Large Universe Compatible ✓ CertainSync
✓ UniverseReduceSync ✓ UniverseReduceSync
Potential Applications - Blockchain synchronization
- Highly dynamic data systems
- Collaborative document editing
- Distributed database sync
- Version control systems
- Error correction
tainSync EGH is well-suited for blockchain synchronization due to its ability to handle varying
symmetric differences over time in a full universe-size range. CertainSync OLS is useful for the
synchronization of distributed databases or files with an overall fixed size (fixed universe size).
Meanwhile, CertainSync Extended Hamming is relevant for error correction, offering a low com-
munication overhead solution for managing small symmetric differences effectively.
3.4 Algorithms for CertainSync Framework
We present an overview of the key algorithms for implementing and utilizing CertainSync. These
algorithms are designed to ensure guaranteed listing success and utilize rateless adaptability. The
detailed algorithms are provided in Appendix D with an example in Appendix E.
ConstructIBLT. This algorithm constructs at each iteration𝑖 an amount of IBLT cells (according
to chosen construction) from a given set𝑆 using submatrix of mapping matrix𝑀𝑛,𝑑, denoted as
𝑀𝑛,𝑖, which is an𝑖-decodable rateless matrix. The IBLT is initialized with cells containing count,
xorSum, and checkSum fields, which are updated as elements from the set are processed.
IBLTDiff. This algorithm constructs the IBLT of the symmetric difference (IBLT{Δ}) by sub-
tracting the IBLT of𝑃1 (IBLT1) from the IBLT of𝑃2 (IBLT2).
DecodeDiff. This algorithm lists the symmetric difference Δ by decoding the IBLT of the
symmetric difference (IBLT{Δ}). It retrieves elements from pure cells and removes them from other
IBLT cells until all elements are decoded or a failure occurs if the IBLT is not empty at the end.

10 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
4 CONSTRUCTIONS FOR CertainSync FRAMEWORK
For our constructions, we use a subfamily of𝑑-decodable matrices that inherently possess a rateless
structure, defined as follows:
Definition 4.1 (𝑑-decodable Rateless Matrix). An𝑚×𝑛 matrix𝑀𝑛,𝑑 is called a𝑑-decodable rateless
matrix if there exist positive integers 𝑚1≤ 𝑚2≤···≤ 𝑚𝑑 = 𝑚, such that for every 𝑖 ∈ [𝑑],
the𝑚𝑖×𝑛 submatrix formed by the first 𝑚𝑖 rows of𝑀𝑛,𝑑 is𝑖-decodable. We refer to the vector
(𝑚1,𝑚 2,...,𝑚 𝑑) as the decodability profile of the matrix𝑀𝑛,𝑑.
The decodability profile of a 𝑑-decodable rateless matrix indicates the additional number of
rows required to transition from(𝑖− 1)-decodability to𝑖-decodability, where𝑖∈[ 𝑑], capturing
the incremental growth in rows needed for progressively increasing decodability. Specifically, let
Δ𝑚𝑖 denote the additional number of rows added when transitioning from(𝑖− 1)-decodable to
𝑖-decodable. With Δ𝑚1 =𝑚1 i.e.𝑚0 = 0 the additional number of rows added Δ𝑚𝑖 is the following:
Δ𝑚𝑖 =𝑚𝑖−𝑚𝑖−1, (1)
Example (𝑑-Decodable Rateless Matrix). For𝑛 = 8 columns, we construct a 2-decodable
rateless matrix𝑀𝑛=8,𝑑=2, given as follows:
𝑀8,2 =

1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1
0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1
0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1

To observe that𝑀8,2 is indeed a 2-decodable rateless matrix, note that the matrix𝑀8,2 is 2-decodable
since any set of two columns has a row of weight one. Hence,𝑚2 = 4. Furthermore,𝑚1 = 1 since
the submatrix𝑀1 of𝑀8,2 which consists of its first row, i.e.𝑀1 =
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
is
1-decodable because any set containing one column has a row of weight one. In summary, the
matrix𝑀8,2 is a 2-decodable rateless matrix and its decodability profile is(𝑚1,𝑚 2) =(1, 4).
Next, we present several CertainSync constructions, where for each construction, we present
a𝑑-decodable rateless matrix that is used to map elements to IBLT cells differently. For each
construction, an example of a𝑑-decodable rateless matrix is provided in Appendix E.
4.1 Construction I: EGH Rateless Matrix
In this section, we show a construction of a𝑑-decodable rateless matrix using the EGH method
[10].
Definition 4.2. [The EGH Matrix] Let 𝑛∈ N and𝑖∈[ 𝑑] be given, where 𝑛 is the number of
columns and 𝑖 is the decodability parameter. The 𝑖-decodable EGH matrix, denoted by 𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑖 ∈
{0, 1}𝑚𝑖×𝑛, is defined as follows:
(1) Let𝑘𝑖 be the smallest integer s.t.Π𝑘𝑖≥𝑛𝑖, where Π𝑘𝑖 is the product of the first𝑘𝑖 prime numbers.
(2) Let 𝑚𝑖 = ˝𝑘𝑖
𝑗=1𝑝𝑗.
(3) For each 𝑗∈[ 𝑘𝑖], define the submatrix𝑀𝑗∈{ 0, 1}𝑝 𝑗×𝑛 as:
𝑀𝑗[𝑥,𝑦] =
(
1 if𝑦+ 1≡𝑥 (mod 𝑝𝑗)
0 otherwise
for𝑥∈[ 𝑝𝑗]0 and𝑦∈[ 𝑛]0.
(4) The EGH matrix 𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑖 is the vertical concatenation of the𝑘𝑖 submatrices𝑀1,𝑀 2,...,𝑀 𝑘𝑖 .

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 11
The resulting matrix𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑖 is of size𝑚𝑖×𝑛, where𝑚𝑖 = ˝𝑘𝑖
𝑗=1𝑝𝑗. The value𝑚𝑖 of the number of rows
is also denoted by𝑚(𝑛,𝑖).
In order to show that the EGH matrix 𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a(𝑑+1)-decodable rateless matrix, we use the
following theorem whose proof is deferred to Appendix F.
Theorem 4.3. For𝑛 and𝑑, the EGH matrix 𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a(𝑑+1)-decodable rateless matrix. For 2≤𝑖≤
𝑑+ 1, the decodability profile is 𝑚𝑖 = ˝𝑘𝑖
𝑗=1𝑝𝑗, where𝑘𝑖 is the smallest integer such that Π𝑘𝑖 ≥ 𝑛𝑖 .
Furthermore,𝑚1 =𝑚2.
4.2 Construction II: OLS Rateless Matrix
In this section, we present a construction of a⌈√𝑛⌉-decodable rateless matrix using the OLS method
based on [33] using a combination of mutually orthogonal Latin squares and the aforementioned
special matrix𝑅𝑛, which we interchangeably refer to as𝐿0. We present the formal definition.
Definition 4.4. [The OLS Matrix] Let 𝑛∈ N and𝑖∈[⌈ √𝑛⌉] be given, where𝑛 is the number
of columns and𝑖 is the decodability parameter. The𝑖-decodable OLS matrix, denoted by 𝑀𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑖∈
{0, 1}𝑚𝑖×𝑛, is defined as follows:
(1) Let 𝑠 =⌈√𝑛⌉ be a prime power and𝑚𝑖 =𝑖·𝑠.
(2) For each 𝑗∈[ 𝑖]0, define the submatrix𝑀𝑗∈{ 0, 1}𝑠×𝑛 as:
(a) For 𝑗 > 0, use Latin square 𝑗 of order 𝑠, or the special matrix 𝑅𝑠 for 𝑗 = 0, such that
𝑅𝑠∪{𝐿𝑗| 1≤ 𝑗 <𝑖} is a mutually orthogonal set.
(b) For each 𝑘∈[ 𝑛]0:
(i) 𝑥 =
j
𝑘
𝑠
k
and𝑦 =𝑘 mod𝑠.
(ii)
𝑀𝑗[𝑥,𝑘] =
(
1 if𝑥 =𝐿𝑗[𝑥,𝑦]
0 otherwise
(3) The OLS matrix 𝑀𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑖 is the vertical concatenation of the𝑖 submatrices𝑀0,𝑀 1,...𝑀 𝑖−1.
The resulting matrix𝑀𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑖 is of size𝑚𝑖×𝑛, where𝑚𝑖 =𝑖·𝑠.
In order to show that the OLS matrix 𝑀𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a⌈√𝑛⌉-decodable rateless matrix, we use the
following theorem whose proof is deferred to Appendix F.
Theorem 4.5. For𝑛 where⌈√𝑛⌉ is a prime power, and 𝑑 = ⌈√𝑛⌉, the OLS matrix 𝑀𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a
⌈√𝑛⌉-decodable rateless matrix. For 1≤𝑖≤⌈√𝑛⌉, the decodability profile is 𝑚𝑖 =𝑖·⌈√𝑛⌉.
4.3 Construction III: Extended Hamming Rateless Matrix
In this section, we present a construction of a 3-decodable rateless matrix based on Extended
Hamming code construction from [12]. For any positive integer𝑛 (not necessarily a power of 2),
we let𝑚 =⌈log2(𝑛)⌉. The matrix𝐻
′
𝑛 consists of the first𝑛 columns of all the 2𝑚 binary column
vectors of the matrix𝐻
′
2𝑚. Thus,𝐻
′
𝑛 has dimensions𝑚×𝑛, and𝐻𝑛 is also similarly extended to
have dimensions(𝑚+ 1)× 𝑛 by adding the all ones row to the matrix𝐻
′
𝑛. This ensures that for
any𝑛, we use the parity check matrix of the extended Hamming code for the smallest power of 2
greater than or equal to𝑛, and then take only the first𝑛 columns of that matrix.

12 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
Definition 4.6. [The Extended Hamming Matrix] Let𝑛∈ N be given, where𝑛≥ 8 is the number
of columns. The 3-decodable Extended Hamming matrix, denoted by𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
𝑛,3, is defined as follows:
𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
𝑛,3 =
"
𝐻𝑛
𝐻
′
𝑛
#
,
where the matrix𝐻
′
𝑛 is the binary complement of the matrix𝐻
′
𝑛. The resulting matrix𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
𝑛,3 is of
size𝑚3×𝑛, where𝑚3 = 2⌈log2𝑛⌉+ 1.
In order to show that the Extended Hamming matrix𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a 3-decodable rateless matrix, we
use the following theorem whose proof is deferred to Appendix F.
Theorem 4.7. For𝑛≥ 8 and𝑑 = 3, the Extended Hamming matrix 𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a 3-decodable rateless
matrix, where the decodability profile is (𝑚1,𝑚 2,𝑚 3) =(1,⌈log2𝑛⌉+ 1, 2⌈log2𝑛⌉+ 1).
5 EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
This section examines our proposed CertainSync constructions compared to baseline schemes for
set reconciliation and demonstrates the construction’s comparable performance to the state-of-the-
art scheme, Rateless IBLT [39], under different configurations for each construction (universe size,
symmetric difference size, and communication overhead).
Schemes Comparison. We compare our CertainSync constructions (EGH, OLS, and Extended
Hamming) which do not require any parametrization or estimators, to other set reconciliation
schemes. We evaluate our constructions alongside state-of-the-art Rateless IBLT [39] as a rateless
scheme, and Difference Digest [ 11] and Graphene [ 30] as non-rateless schemes. In particular,
Difference Digest incurs additional communication overhead due to the transmission of a Strata
Estimator, which is required to estimate the size of the symmetric difference before reconciliation.
Setup. In the experiments, we refer to the common simplified scenario that one set is a superset
of another set as a typical case, as observed in prior work [30], which simplifies the computation
of the symmetric difference Δ by merely removing elements of one set from the other. Later, in
Section 6, which addresses the blockchain applicability of CertainSync, this assumption is not in use
anymore. Fig. 5 illustrates two set scenarios. In our experimental setup, each IBLT cell comprises
three 8-byte fields (counter, xorSum and checkSum), totaling 24 bytes or 192 bits (24 bytes× 8) per
cell across all evaluated schemes to ensure a fair comparison. To assess metrics of set reconciliation
schemes such as accuracy, communication efficiency, and scalability, we developed an experimental
design wherein 10 independent trials were conducted for each scheme. Specifically, for each trial,
the set of the receiver of IBLT cells was defined as the complete universe of𝑛 elements. In contrast,
the set of the sender of IBLT cells was constructed by removing|Δ| (symmetric difference size)
unique, randomly selected elements from the receiver set. The experimental results were analyzed
by averaging the metrics across the trials, thereby mitigating potential bias in results due to random
S2 \ S1S2 S1
(a) Simplified case where 𝑆2 is a su-
perset of𝑆1 (𝑆1⊆𝑆2).
S1 \ S2S1 S2 \ S1 S2S1 ∩ S2
(b) General case with arbitrary set overlap
between𝑆1 and𝑆2.
Fig. 5. Set scenarios between two participants.

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 13
removal of elements from the sender set. The additional communication overhead of sending a
subset of Δ elements from the receiver to the transmitter at the end is neglected, as it does not
involve the transmission of IBLT cells and is treated as a constant additive factor across all schemes.
102 103 104 105 106
0
0.5
1
Comm. Overhead (bits)
Listing Success Prob.
CertainSync EGH
CertainSync OLS
CertainSync Extended Hamming
Rateless IBLT
Difference Digest
(a)𝑚(𝑛 = 106,|Δ| = 3)
102 103 104 105 106
0
0.5
1
Comm. Overhead (bits) (b)𝑚(𝑛 = 106,|Δ| = 100)
102 103 104 105 106
0
0.5
1
Comm. Overhead (bits) (c)𝑚(𝑛 = 106,|Δ| = 1000)
Fig. 6. The trade-off between listing success probability for various schemes as a function of communication
overhead (in bits). The universe size is𝑛 = 106 and|Δ| refers to the symmetric difference size.
Findings. Our experimental results demonstrate that our CertainSync constructions, which are
parameterless with a guarantee for successful set reconciliation, achieve comparable performance
to state-of-the-art Rateless IBLT scheme across the different configurations, with each construc-
tion exhibiting optimal performance for specific symmetric difference size ranges. Specifically,
CertainSync EGH and Extended Hamming excel with small to medium symmetric difference size
ranges, requiring minimal communication overhead similar to Rateless IBLT, while CertainSync
OLS becomes more efficient as the symmetric difference size approaches⌈√𝑛⌉. The experiments
reveal clear trade-offs between decoding accuracy, communication efficiency, and scalability across
all schemes, with Rateless IBLT consistently demonstrating superior overall performance but Cer-
tainSync constructions offering competitive alternatives for specific use cases as parameterless
solutions that eliminate the need for estimators.
5.1 Decoding Accuracy
Fig. 6 presents the listing success probability of various schemes as a function of the communication
overhead for different symmetric difference sizes in a linear-log plot. For small symmetric difference
sizes, such as|Δ| = 3, CertainSync (EGH and Extended Hamming) and Rateless IBLT demonstrate
the lowest communication overhead to reach a success probability of 1. In contrast, CertainSync
OLS and Difference Digest exhibit the poorest efficiency with almost double the communication
overhead of previous schemes to reach a probability of 1. As the symmetric difference size increases
to medium levels (|Δ| = 100), Rateless IBLT maintains superior performance, closely followed by
CertainSync EGH. However, CertainSync OLS and Difference Digest continue to underperform,
requiring approximately ten times the communication overhead compared to the former schemes to
achieve a probability of 1. In the large symmetric difference size regime (|Δ| = 1000), Rateless IBLT
remains the most efficient, achieving a success probability converging to 1 as the number of IBLT
cells approaches 1.35|Δ|. CertainSync OLS shows comparable performance, particularly at lower
success probabilities. CertainSync EGH becomes notably inefficient, demanding approximately four
times the communication overhead of Rateless IBLT to reach a success probability of 1. Difference
Digest maintains the worst efficiency compared to other schemes and reaches a probability of 1
with relatively the same communication overhead as CertainSync EGH. The experimental results
reveal a trade-off between symmetric difference size and communication overhead for CertainSync
constructions. Each CertainSync construction exhibits an optimal range of symmetric difference

14 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
103 104 105 106 107
103
104
105
106
Universe size n
Comm. Overhead (bits)
CertainSync EGH
CertainSync OLS
CertainSync Extended Hamming
Rateless IBLT
Difference Digest
(a)𝑚(𝑛,|Δ| = 3)
103 104 105 106 107
104
105
106
Universe size n (b)𝑚(𝑛,|Δ| = 30)
Fig. 7. Trade-off between communication overhead for various schemes as a function of universe size 𝑛.
sizes, achieving performance comparable to the Rateless IBLT scheme, which demonstrated the
best overall performance. On one hand, CertainSync OLS requires, compared to CertainSync
EGH, excessive communication overhead for small to medium symmetric difference sizes (|Δ|≪
⌈√𝑛⌉ = 1000), due to its dependence on⌈√𝑛⌉. However, as the symmetric difference size increases,
as illustrated for |Δ| = 1000, CertainSync OLS achieves a success probability converging to 1
with significantly lower communication overhead compared to CertainSync EGH, which becomes
increasingly inefficient with increasing symmetric difference size.
5.2 Communication Efficiency
Fig. 7 shows the communication overhead of various schemes as a function of the universe size
𝑛 in a log-log plot. We focus on a small symmetric difference size ( |Δ| = 3), and also evaluate
larger symmetric difference size (|Δ| = 30) that approaches the theoretical upper bound|Δmax| =
⌈
√
103⌉ = 32 imposed by CertainSync OLS for minimal universe size 𝑛 = 103 experimented
with. For|Δ| = 3, Rateless IBLT and CertainSync (EGH and Extended Hamming) exhibit optimal
performance with approximately constant growth regardless of the universe size, and require the
least communication overhead. For Rateless IBLT, the communication overhead, theoretically based
on [39], lies between 1.35|Δ| and 1.72|Δ| on average, confirming that the complexity with respect
to the universe size is𝑂(1). In contrast, the theoretical communication overhead complexity for
CertainSync Extended Hamming is 𝑂(log𝑛), while for CertainSync EGH it follows 𝑂

log2𝑛

.
Simulation results demonstrate that both constructions achieve practical performance consistent
with𝑂(1) complexity, reflecting their dependency on the symmetric difference size (|Δ|) more
than the universe size. CertainSync OLS demonstrates a worse performance in comparison to the
previous schemes, as it is more susceptible to changes in universe size. Specifically, CertainSync OLS
requires communication overhead proportional to⌈√𝑛⌉, which increases significantly with larger
universe sizes. The Difference Digest demonstrates the worst performance in comparison to the
other schemes, with the highest communication overhead requirements, even for a small universe
size, due to sending an estimator before reconciliation. Fig. 8(a) presents the communication
overhead of various schemes as a function of the symmetric difference size|Δ| in a log-log plot.
For low symmetric difference sizes(| Δ| < 10), Rateless IBLT demonstrates the best performance,
requiring the least communication overhead, closely followed by CertainSync constructions of
EGH and Extended Hamming. Graphene shows moderate efficiency, while CertainSync OLS,
with its initial transmission of ⌈√𝑛⌉ cells, and Difference Digest with the transmission of an
estimator, perform poorly in this range by having the highest overhead. For medium symmetric

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 15
1 10 102 103 104
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
Symmetric Difference Size |∆|
Comm. Overhead (bits)
CertainSync EGH
CertainSync OLS
CertainSync Extended Hamming
Rateless IBLT
Difference Digest
Graphene
(a) Communication Overhead (in bits)
1 10 102 103 104
102
103
104
105
106
107
Symmetric Difference Size |∆|
Incremental Comm. Overhead (bits)
CertainSync EGH
CertainSync OLS
Rateless IBLT
Difference Digest
Graphene (b) Incremental Communication Overhead (in bits)
Fig. 8. Communication overhead and incremental communication overhead (in bits) for various schemes as a
function of symmetric difference size|Δ|. The universe size is𝑛 = 106.
difference sizes(10 <|Δ| < 1000), Rateless IBLT maintains its superior performance with the
lowest communication overhead; Graphene achieves comparable overhead, while CertainSync EGH
demonstrates moderate performance. As CertainSync OLS approaches its maximum symmetric
difference size|Δ|𝑚𝑎𝑥 =⌈
√
106⌉ = 103, its performance is better than CertainSync EGH. Difference
Digest still with the worst performance due to the initial transmission of an estimator. For high
symmetric difference sizes(| Δ| > 1000), Rateless IBLT remains the most efficient scheme, requiring
the least communication overhead. Graphene performs similarly well but is slightly less efficient
than Rateless IBLT. Difference Digest demonstrates moderate performance, and the overhead of
transmission of IBLT cells after the estimation phase is comparable to the communication overhead
of estimation, thus a rise in overhead as symmetric difference size increases. CertainSync EGH
demonstrates the poorest scalability, requiring significantly more communication overhead than
all other schemes. Theoretical communication costs almost align with these results. Rateless IBLT
achieves𝑂(| Δ|) complexity, with simulations confirming overhead between 1.35|Δ| and 1.72|Δ| on
average, converging to1.35|Δ| for larger|Δ|. CertainSync EGH, with theoretical complexity𝑂(| Δ|2),
scales poorly for large|Δ|. CertainSync Extended Hamming exhibits 𝑂(| Δ|) complexity, which
makes it effective for small symmetric difference sizes, while CertainSync OLS demonstrates parts
of𝑂(1) and𝑂(| Δ|), which implies superior scaling in parts of𝑂(1) due to a stronger dependence
on universe size𝑛. It performs well for medium values of|Δ|. Difference Digest achieves𝑂(| Δ|)
complexity through Strata Estimator based estimation of|Δ|, and Graphene, despite high initial
overhead for small |Δ| as much as 20% higher than its true minimum cost (see Eq. 3 in [30]),
converges to𝑂(| Δ|) for larger symmetric difference sizes.
5.3 Scalability
In this context, scalability is measured by the rate at which incremental communication overhead
(additional bits) increases concerning the size of the symmetric difference while maintaining a con-
stant universe size. Schemes requiring fewer additional bits as the symmetric difference size grows
are considered more scalable. A steeper slope indicates poorer scalability, as the communication
overhead increases rapidly. Conversely, a flatter slope indicates better scalability, as the scheme
requires fewer additional bits for larger symmetric difference sizes. Fig. 8(b) shows the incremental
communication overhead of various schemes as a function of symmetric difference size|Δ| in a
log-log plot. In this simulation, the distinction between rateless and non-rateless schemes becomes
evident. The incremental overhead of non-rateless schemes, such as Difference Digest and Graphene,

16 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
is the same as the total communication overhead (see Fig. 8(a)) due to their inability to dynamically
expand, constrained by either fixed IBLT size based on parametrization (Graphene), or estimation-
based allocation (Difference Digest). Consequently, their overall scalability is significantly inferior
compared to rateless schemes. Rateless IBLT demonstrates superior overall scalability, exhibiting
constant growth in incremental communication overhead as the symmetric difference size increases
above|Δ| = 10. CertainSync EGH achieves comparable overhead to Rateless IBLT up to medium
symmetric difference size of|Δ| = 100, and beyond it exhibits linear growth, becoming less scalable
with complexity𝑂(| Δ|). CertainSync OLS presents relatively high incremental communication
overhead for small symmetric difference sizes due to its dependence on universe size𝑛, performing
worse than even the non-rateless Graphene scheme. However, it demonstrates improved scalability
compared to non-rateless schemes at medium symmetric difference sizes, and notably, as it ap-
proaches its maximum symmetric difference size|Δ|max =⌈
√
106⌉ = 103, its incremental overhead
surpasses that of Rateless IBLT.
6 CertainSync FOR BLOCKCHAIN SYNCHRONIZATION
6.1 Setup
We utilize an architecture comprising two Ethereum blockchain nodes, each consisting of an
execution client and a consensus client. The execution client used is Geth, which facilitates the
processing of transactions and the execution of smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain. The
consensus client employed is Prysm, which implements Ethereum’s Proof of Stake (PoS) consensus
mechanism. Each node operates independently but participates in the same network. By utilizing the
Geth admin.peers API, we can confirm that these nodes are not peers of one another. This separation
is advantageous, as it might lead to more distinct transaction pools for each node as we mainly focus
on synchronization of transactions rather than blocks. For this experiment, we utilize the Sepolia
testnet, which is one of the Ethereum test networks. Sepolia provides a sandbox environment that
allows testing applications and smart contracts without incurring real costs or risks associated with
the main Ethereum network (Mainnet). In blockchain, the transaction pool (TxPool), analogous to
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
5,600
5,700
5,800
5,900
6,000
Time (minutes)
TxPool size (# Transactions) Node 1 txs
Node 2 txs
(a) The size of the Ethereum transaction pools
(TxPools), combining both queued and pending
transactions over time (in minutes).
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
Time (minutes)
TxPool Distribution (# Transactions)
Node 1 - Queued Txs
Node 1 - Pending Txs
Node 2 - Queued Txs
Node 2 - Pending Txs
(b) The count of queued and pending transac-
tions in transaction pools (TxPools) over time
(in minutes).
Fig. 9. Characteristics of Ethereum transaction pools (TxPools).
the Mempool in Bitcoin, is a critical component that holds all transactions that have been submitted
but not yet included in a block. We collected and analyzed the real content of the TxPools at two
Ethereum nodes on November 27, 2024, for an hour (which ended around noon EST). The TxPool
is divided into two types: queued transactions, which wait for processing and inclusion in a block,

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 17
prioritized by gas price for miners’ selection, and pending transactions, which have been selected
by a miner and are in the process of being included in a block but are not yet confirmed or added
to the blockchain. For the purpose of synchronizing transaction pools, we place less emphasis
on transaction types, but rather on the total number of them at any given time as shown in Fig.
9(a). We stick to the default maximum values as specified in the Geth client version 1.14.11-stable-
f3c696fa, where the maximum pending transactions (controlled bytxpool.globalslots) is limited
to 1024 transactions, the maximum queued transactions (controlled by txpool.globalqueue) is
limited to 5120 transactions, and queued transactions are removed after 3 hours (controlled by
txpool.lifetime). After giving each node enough time to be fully synchronized to the chain,
from Fig. 9(b), we can observe that the number of queued transactions is indeed close to 1024 with
declines due to the discarding of queued transactions, or due to becoming a pending transaction,
while pending transaction count is around 5000 with declines due to appending transactions to
a block, and increases due to queued transactions becoming pending. By utilizing this setup, we
intend to explore transaction pool synchronization between the two nodes.
6.2 The UniverseReduceSync Framework
6.2.1 Motivation. Each transaction in a blockchain network includes a hash field, which is gen-
erated using a cryptographic hash function like SHA256. This function processes the transaction
details, such as the transaction value and the sender’s and receiver’s addresses, to produce a unique
identifier. In the Ethereum network, a transaction includes a hash field of 256 bits. At first glance, this
implies a universe size of𝑛 = 2256 and substantial inefficiency in the basic CertainSync framework,
with communication overhead affected by the universe size (Table 1). For example, in CertainSync
OLS construction, communication overhead is proportional to⌈
√
𝑛 = 2256⌉ = 2128. Therefore, we
extend our CertainSync framework to incorporate universe size reduction, resulting in an extended
framework for large-scale universe size scenarios such as blockchain networks, which we refer to
as UniverseReduceSync. By reducing the universe size to a scale proportional to the actual size of the
sets involved in synchronization, such as the size of the transaction pools in blockchain networks
as demonstrated by using the Ethereum blockchain as a case study, we significantly reduce the
communication overhead compared to the basic CertainSync framework.
6.2.2 Architecture. In UniverseReduceSync, as described in Fig. 10, there is a cyclic process designed
to facilitate synchronization in multiple rounds, where in each round CertainSync is used. The key
components of the framework are the following:
UniverseSizeReduction. This component estimates the new reduced universe size (𝑛𝑟 ) based
on the total elements from the original universe size 𝑛 of sets𝑆1 and𝑆2. Its estimation aims to
minimize the number of collisions in the reduced universe below a threshold denoted as𝛿.
Certain Mapping. In this component, each element𝑒 in a set undergoes a mapping using a
predefined hash functionH parameterized by a hash salt𝑠𝑖, where𝑖 denotes the round number.
The hash salt𝑠𝑖 is generated using an agreed pseudorandom number generator (PRNG), ensuring
consistent and reproducible values for𝑠𝑖 among all participants. Specifically, for each element𝑒,
we compute a reduced element value𝑒𝑟 =H(𝑒,𝑠𝑖). Additionally, it constructs a reverse mapping Φ
from the reduced universe back to the original universe, ensuring that each element in the reduced
universe can be mapped back to its corresponding original element or elements in case of duplicates.
CertainSync. The CertainSync component performs the synchronization process within the
reduced universe, leveraging the reduced elements𝑆𝑟 from the previous step on each side.
Fully Sync Verification. The Fully Sync verification component determines whether the syn-
chronization is fully done. If so, the process yields the symmetric difference Δ. However, if the

18 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
Universe Size Reduction
Certain Mapping
Algorithm 1
CertainSync
Section 3
Full Sync Verifier
Start
Stop
(a) Block diagram illustrating the archi-
tecture and workflow of the UniverseRe-
duceSync.
Input: Sets S1, S2⊆UStart
Is Receiver Side ?Input: Collisions Threshold δ
Estimate nr =|Ur|
Universe Reduction:
fsi : U ↦→Ur
CertainSyncInput: Construction
Universe Expansion:
fΦ : Ur ↦→U
Full Difference Update:
∆i←{S1\S2}∪{S2\S1}
∆ ← ∆∪ ∆i
Full Sync Check:
∆i =∅ ?
Update Sets:
S1← S1∪{S2\S1}
S2← S2∪{S1\S2}
Output: ∆
Stop
yes
no
no
yes
(b) The detailed flowchart for UniverseReduceSync. The colors
match the components in the block diagram.
Fig. 10. UniverseReduceSync illustration via block diagram and flowchart.
synchronization is not fully done, the process returns to the Universe Size Reduction stage with
less data to synchronize than the previous round.
6.2.3 Trade-offs. Table 3 illustrates the key trade-offs between CertainSync and UniverseRe-
duceSync frameworks. For CertainSync, EGH is the sole applicable construction, as it avoids the
limitations of Extended Hamming with a small maximum symmetric difference size (|Δ𝑚𝑎𝑥| = 3),
and is significantly less dependent on the universe size 𝑛 with polylogarithmic communication
overhead complexity𝑂(log2𝑛), compared to OLS proportional to⌈√𝑛⌉. In UniverseReduceSync,
while Extended Hamming remains irrelevant due to its small maximum symmetric difference size,
both EGH and OLS constructions prove applicable. Moreover, UniverseReduceSync achieves lower
communication costs through reduced elements but introduces potential collisions and requires
parameter tuning and estimation of the reduced universe size. In contrast, CertainSync offers
simpler, collision-free operation with guaranteed single-round synchronization at the expense of
higher communication overhead due to the use of elements in the original large universe.
Table 3. Framework Characteristics: CertainSync vs. UniverseReduceSync. Green indicates a preferable
characteristic, while red highlights a less favorable one.
Property
Framework CertainSync
(Section 3)
UniverseReduceSync
(Section 6)
Constructions EGH EGH, OLS
Universe Size Original Reduced
Communication Complexity Higher Lower
Parametrization & Estimation None Includes
Collisions No collisions Possible within and between participants
Synchronization Rounds Exactly 1 round ≥ 1 rounds (collision-dependent)
Memory Overhead Original elements only Original and reduced elements

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 19
6.3 Design of UniverseReduceSync
UniverseSizeReduction. The reduced universe size 𝑛𝑟 must be at least 2⌈log2(𝑚)⌉ where𝑚 =
|𝑆1|+| 𝑆2| serves as an upper bound on|𝑆1∪𝑆2| due to potential overlaps of same elements. This
bound ensures: (i) avoiding guaranteed collisions by the pigeonhole principle when𝑛𝑟 <𝑚, (ii)
optimal bit representation since any𝑛𝑟 < 2⌈log2(𝑚)⌉ would not fully utilize the minimum bits needed
for𝑚 distinct values. While 2⌈log2(𝑚)⌉ provides sufficient capacity for unique representations, the
actual number of collisions depends on the statistical properties of the chosen hash used to map to
the reduced universe, the reduced universe size𝑛𝑟 and the hash salt per round𝑠𝑖.
Theorem 6.1 (Hash Collisions Expectation). LetH be a hash function that maps elements to
a universe of size 𝑛𝑟 , and let𝑚 be the number of elements. Assuming a uniform hash distribution, the
expected number of element collisions is 𝐸[Collisions] = 𝑚(𝑚−1)
2𝑛𝑟
.
Proof. The probability of a specific pair’s collision is 1
𝑛𝑟
, with  𝑚
2
 = 𝑚(𝑚−1)
2 total possible
element pairs. Consequently, the expected number of element collisions is  𝑚
2
· 1
𝑛𝑟
= 𝑚(𝑚−1)
2𝑛𝑟
. □
To determine the minimal value of𝑛𝑟 , we start with the constraint that the expected number of
collisions, given by𝐸[collisions] = 𝑚(𝑚−1)
2·𝑛𝑟
, must not exceed𝛿. Through algebraic manipulation of
this inequality, we find that𝑛𝑟≥ 𝑚(𝑚−1)
2𝛿 . Since𝑛𝑟 must be a positive integer, we take the ceiling
function of this expression, which yields𝑛𝑟 =
l
𝑚(𝑚−1)
2𝛿
m
as the minimal value.
CertainMapping. Given two sets𝑆1 and𝑆2, if elements𝑒1∈𝑆1 and𝑒2∈𝑆2 map to the same
reduced element𝑒𝑟 under CertainMapping, then either𝑒1 =𝑒2 or a collision occurred.
Algorithm 1: CertainMapping
Input: Elements 𝑆⊆𝑈 , Hash Salt𝑠𝑖, Reduced Universe size𝑛𝑟
Output: Reduced elements𝑆𝑟 , Mapping Φ
Initialize𝑆𝑟←∅ , Φ← dictionary{}
for𝑒∈S do
𝑒𝑟←  H(𝑒,𝑠𝑖) mod𝑛𝑟
+ 1
𝑆𝑟←𝑆𝑟∪{𝑒𝑟}
Φ(𝑒𝑟)← Φ(𝑒𝑟)∪{ 𝑒}
return(𝑆𝑟, Φ)
Fully Sync Verifier. Algorithm 5 in Appendix D is extended by leveraging the counter’s sign in
pure cells to determine the side-association of each reduced element𝑒𝑟∈ IBLT{Δ}. For the first
round with an assumption for discrete uniform distribution for hashH, the symmetric difference
size in this round|Δ|1 is bounded bymax(0,|Δ|−2𝛿)≤| Δ|1≤| Δ|, where the lower bound represents
collisions of elements in Δ, and the upper bound represents element collisions in the intersection.
Consequently, the probability of a full sync check succeeding isP(𝑆𝑢𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠)≥ max(0,|Δ|− 2𝛿)
|Δ| .
6.4 Results
To enable validation of the correctness of our results, the symmetric difference size|Δ| is required
in advance, but in real time, it is unknown. We collected, as mentioned earlier, the content of
TxPools at two Ethereum nodes over time at one-minute intervals, and calculated in advance their
symmetric difference size as shown in Fig. 11(a). The transaction unique identifier, which is the hash
field, is used as the new element, in contrast to previous experiments with a positive integer. In our

20 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
experimental setup, UniverseReduceSync constructions use an IBLT cell structure with an 8-byte
counter, 32-byte xorSum, and 32-byte checkSum, totaling 72 bytes or 576 bits per cell. In contrast,
CertainSync constructions utilize an IBLT cell with three 8-byte fields (counter, xorSum, checkSum),
resulting in 24 bytes or 192 bits per cell. The difference in sizes is due to UniverseReduceSync
utilizing original transaction hashes of 256 bits (32 bytes), whereas CertainSync utilizes reduced
transaction hashes of 64 bits (8 bytes) for its xorSum and checkSum fields.
In Fig. 11(b) and (c), there is a comparison of the communication overhead for three synchroniza-
tion schemes: CertainSync EGH (original universe) and UniverseReduceSync EGH & OLS (reduced
universe) under varying number of collision constraints𝛿∈{ 1, 100}. The subplots show the com-
munication overhead as a function of time, with CertainSync EGH consistently requiring the most
overhead with the same overhead costs across𝛿 values, UniverseReduceSync EGH consistently
requiring the least communication overhead with the same overhead costs across𝛿 values, and
UniverseReduceSync OLS demonstrating decreased communication overhead as𝛿 increases, which
implies a lower reduced universe size𝑛𝑟 .
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
700
800
900
Time (minutes)
Symmetric Difference Size ( |∆|)
Symmetric Difference Size
(a) Variation of symmetric differ-
ence size over time (in Minutes).
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
108
109
1010
Time (minutes)
Comm. Overhead (bits)
(b) Maximum number of colli-
sions𝛿 = 1.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
108
109
1010
Time (minutes)
Comm. Overhead (bits)
CertainSync EGH
UniverseReduceSync EGH
UniverseReduceSync OLS
(c) Maximum number of colli-
sions𝛿 = 100.
Fig. 11. Symmetric Difference Size |Δ| and communication overhead (in bits) for various synchronization
schemes as a function of maximum number of collisions (𝛿) and time in minutes.
7 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
This paper introduced CertainSync, a novel framework for set reconciliation that guarantees success
when communication overhead reaches a bound derived by the symmetric difference size and the
universe size, unlike traditional schemes that offer only statistical guarantees. We proposed three
rateless constructions without requiring parametrization or symmetric difference size estimation
based on group testing, Latin squares, and error correction codes. We analyzed their performance
and validated their effectiveness through experiments compared to other baseline schemes for set
reconciliation. Additionally, we presented UniverseReduceSync, an extended framework of Certain-
Sync for large-scale universe size reconciliation to minimize communication overhead. We evaluated
it alongside the basic CertainSync framework on the Sepolia Ethereum network to compare the trade-
offs between the two frameworks. A natural open question for future work refers to the development
of other families of constructions for CertainSync, like combinatorial or recursive, that can be appli-
cable to set reconciliation with certainty. We would also like to study the reconciliation of more than
two sets, often known as multi-party set reconciliation, with certainty due to its practical relevance
in blockchain networks. Moreover, evaluating the total reconciliation time of CertainSync compared
to other baseline set reconciliation schemes and in real-world scenarios, particularly under high
network churn, remains an important direction that will further validate the practical applicability.

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 21
REFERENCES
[1] Djamal Belazzougui, Gregory Kucherov, and Stefan Walzer. 2024. Better Space-Time-Robustness Trade-Offs for Set
Reconciliation. In International Colloquium on Automata, Languages, and Programming (ICALP) .
[2] Burton H. Bloom. 1970. Space/Time Trade-offs in Hash Coding with Allowable Errors. Commun. ACM 13, 7 (1970),
422–426.
[3] Novak Boskov, Sevval Simsek, Ari Trachtenberg, and David Starobinski. 2023. SREP: Out-Of-Band Sync of Transaction
Pools for Large-Scale Blockchains. In IEEE International Conference on Blockchain and Cryptocurrency (ICBC) .
[4] Novak Boskov, Ari Trachtenberg, and David Starobinski. 2022. GenSync: A New Framework for Benchmarking and
Optimizing Reconciliation of Data. IEEE Trans. Netw. Serv. Manag. 19, 4 (2022), 4408–4423.
[5] John W. Byers, Jeffrey Considine, Michael Mitzenmacher, and Stanislav Rost. 2002. Informed content delivery across
adaptive overlay networks. In ACM SIGCOMM.
[6] Eunji Choi, Jungwon Lee, Changhoon Yim, and Hyesook Lim. 2024. Decoding Errors in Difference-Invertible Bloom
Filters: Analysis and Resolution. IEEE Access 12 (2024), 40622–40633.
[7] Graham Cormode and S. Muthukrishnan. 2004. An Improved Data Stream Summary: The Count-Min Sketch and Its
Applications. In Latin American Theoretical Informatics (LATIN).
[8] Changyan Di, David Proietti, I. Emre Telatar, Thomas J. Richardson, and Rüdiger L. Urbanke. 2002. Finite-length
analysis of low-density parity-check codes on the binary erasure channel. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 48, 6 (2002),
1570–1579.
[9] Yevgeniy Dodis, Rafail Ostrovsky, Leonid Reyzin, and Adam D. Smith. 2006. Fuzzy Extractors: How to Generate Strong
Keys from Biometrics and Other Noisy Data. CoRR abs/cs/0602007 (2006).
[10] David Eppstein, Michael T. Goodrich, and Daniel S. Hirschberg. 2007. Improved Combinatorial Group Testing
Algorithms for Real-World Problem Sizes. SIAM J. Comput. 36, 5 (2007), 1360–1375.
[11] David Eppstein, Michael T. Goodrich, Frank C. Uyeda, and George Varghese. 2011. What’s the Difference? Efficient
Set Reconciliation without Prior Context. In ACM SIGCOMM.
[12] Tuvi Etzion. 2006. On the Stopping Redundancy of Reed-Muller Codes.IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 52, 11 (2006), 4867–4879.
[13] Long Gong, Ziheng Liu, Liang Liu, Jun Xu, Mitsunori Ogihara, and Tong Yang. 2020. Space- and Computationally-
Efficient Set Reconciliation via Parity Bitmap Sketch (PBS). Proc. VLDB Endow. 14, 4 (2020), 458–470.
[14] Michael T. Goodrich and Michael Mitzenmacher. 2011. Invertible Bloom lookup tables. In Allerton Conference on
Communication, Control, and Computing .
[15] M. Y. Hsiao, D. C. Bossen, and R. T. Chien. 1970. Orthogonal latin square codes. IBM J. Res. Dev. 14, 4 (1970), 390–394.
[16] Muhammad Anas Imtiaz, David Starobinski, Ari Trachtenberg, and Nabeel Younis. 2021. Churn in the Bitcoin Network.
IEEE Trans. Netw. Serv. Manag. 18, 2 (2021), 1598–1615.
[17] A. Donald Keedwell and József Dénes. 2015. Chapter 5 - The concept of orthogonality. In Latin Squares and their
Applications (Second Edition).
[18] Sándor Z. Kiss, Éva Hosszu, János Tapolcai, Lajos Rónyai, and Ori Rottenstreich. 2021. Bloom Filter With a False
Positive Free Zone. IEEE Trans. Netw. Serv. Manag. 18, 2 (2021), 2334–2349.
[19] Ivo Kubjas and Vitaly Skachek. 2020. Failure Probability Analysis for Partial Extraction from Invertible Bloom Filters.
CoRR abs/2008.00879 (2020).
[20] Francisco Lázaro and Balázs Matuz. 2023. A Rate-Compatible Solution to the Set Reconciliation Problem. IEEE Trans.
Commun. 71, 10 (2023), 5769–5782.
[21] Yixin Li, Liang Liang, Yunjian Jia, and Wanli Wen. 2024. Presync: An Efficient Transaction Synchronization Protocol
to Accelerate Block Propagation. IEEE Trans. Netw. Serv. Manag. 21, 5 (2024), 5582–5596.
[22] Zhenhua Li, Cheng Jin, Tianyin Xu, Christo Wilson, Yao Liu, Linsong Cheng, Yunhao Liu, Yafei Dai, and Zhi-Li Zhang.
2014. Towards Network-level Efficiency for Cloud Storage Services. In Internet Measurement Conference (IMC) .
[23] Lailong Luo, Deke Guo, Ori Rottenstreich, Richard T.B Ma, and Xueshan Luo. 2019. Set Reconciliation with Cuckoo
Filters. In ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM) .
[24] Lailong Luo, Deke Guo, Yawei Zhao, Ori Rottenstreich, Richard T. B. Ma, and Xueshan Luo. 2021. MCFsyn: A Multi-
Party Set Reconciliation Protocol With the Marked Cuckoo Filter. IEEE Trans. Parallel Distributed Syst. 32, 11 (2021),
2705–2718.
[25] Aljoscha Meyer. 2023. Range-Based Set Reconciliation. In International Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems
(SRDS).
[26] Y. Minsky, A. Trachtenberg, and R. Zippel. 2003. Set reconciliation with nearly optimal communication complexity.
IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 49, 9 (2003), 2213–2218.
[27] Michael Mitzenmacher and Rasmus Pagh. 2018. Simple multi-party set reconciliation. Distributed Comput. 31, 6 (2018),
441–453.
[28] Avi Mizrahi, Daniella Bar-Lev, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich. 2024. Invertible Bloom Lookup Tables with Listing
Guarantees. In ACM Sigmetrics.

22 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
[29] Patrick Mukherjee, Christof Leng, Wesley W. Terpstra, and Andy Schürr. 2008. Peer-to-Peer Based Version Control. In
IEEE International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Systems (ICPADS) .
[30] A. Pinar Ozisik, Gavin Andresen, Brian N. Levine, Darren Tapp, George Bissias, and Sunny Katkuri. 2019. Graphene:
Efficient interactive set reconciliation applied to blockchain propagation. In ACM SIGCOMM.
[31] Nalin Ranjan, Zechao Shang, Sanjay Krishnan, and Aaron J. Elmore. 2021. Version Reconciliation for Collaborative
Databases. In ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing (SoCC) .
[32] Pedro Reviriego, Salvatore Pontarelli, Alfonso Sánchez-Macián, and Juan Antonio Maestro. 2014. A Method to Extend
Orthogonal Latin Square Codes. IEEE Trans. Very Large Scale Integr. (VLSI) Syst. 22, 7 (2014), 1635–1639.
[33] Ori Rottenstreich, Pedro Reviriego, Ely Porat, and S. Muthukrishnan. 2021. Avoiding Flow Size Overestimation in
Count-Min Sketch With Bloom Filter Constructions. IEEE Trans. Netw. Serv. Manag. 18, 3 (2021), 3662–3676.
[34] Sebastian Schildt, Johannes Morgenroth, and Lars C. Wolf. 2013. Efficient false positive free set synchronization using
an extended Bloom filter approach. Comput. Commun. 36, 10-11 (2013), 1245–1254.
[35] Moshe Schwartz and Alexander Vardy. 2005. On the Stopping Distance and the Stopping Redundancy of Codes. CoRR
abs/cs/0503058 (2005).
[36] Mounir Tlili, Reza Akbarinia, Esther Pacitti, and Patrick Valduriez. 2010. Scalable P2P Reconciliation Infrastructure for
Collaborative Text Editing. In International Conference on Advances in Databases, Knowledge, and Data Applications
(DBKDA).
[37] Ari Trachtenberg, David Starobinski, and Sachin Agarwal. 2002. Fast PDA Synchronization Using Characteristic
Polynomial Interpolation. In IEEE INFOCOM.
[38] Xiaobo Xing. 2021. Financial Big Data Reconciliation Method. In International Symposium on Advances in Informatics,
Electronics and Education (ISAIEE) .
[39] Lei Yang, Yossi Gilad, and Mohammad Alizadeh. 2024. Practical Rateless Set Reconciliation. In ACM SIGCOMM.

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 23
A ADDITIONAL APPLICATIONS OF SET RECONCILIATION
Set reconciliation is crucial in domains that require efficient data synchronization, particularly in
blockchain networks. Minimizing communication overhead for synchronization between parties is
essential to ensure efficiency and scalability. Some notable applications include:
Distributed Databases. Large-scale distributed databases like in finance often employ reconcil-
iation to maintain consistency across replicas [38]. Also, schemes for reconciliation in distributed
versioned database systems like MindPalace [31] are used for auto-mergeability, where branches
may be reconciled (analogous to a branch merging in Git) without human intervention.
Collaborative Editing. Real-time collaborative editing systems use reconciliation techniques to
synchronize user changes efficiently, ensuring consistency with minimal conflicts. While centralized
systems like Google Docs handle this via a server, P2P collaborative editing in decentralized systems
[29, 36] lacks a central mediator. Peers must directly reconcile local changes, making efficient set
reconciliation critical for identifying and resolving differences without full document transfers.

24 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
B ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES TO SET RECONCILIATION
Advances in set reconciliation have focused significantly on improving communication efficiency
and minimizing overhead. In addition to the IBLT-based techniques, three other modern methods
have emerged.
Characteristic Polynomial Interpolation (CPI) . This method encodes sets as polynomials
to minimize the data exchanged during the reconciliation process [26]. CPI has been explored in
several works, including research on out-of-band synchronization of transaction pools for large-
scale blockchains [3], studies on benchmarking and optimizing data reconciliation [4], and efforts
to achieve fast Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) synchronization using CPI [37].
Parity Bitmap Sketch (PBS). This is an ECC-based set reconciliation scheme [13] which reduces
both space and computational overheads by leveraging parity bits for detecting and correcting
errors, ensuring accurate reconciliation even in the presence of errors. It uses a parity bitmap
sketch, which is a compact data structure that encodes set differences using parity information.
Recursive Partitioning and Fingerprinting. This method optimizes the process of computing
set unions over a network [25]. It employs a divide-and-conquer approach, recursively partitioning
the sets, computing fingerprints for each partition, and comparing fingerprints of the partitions to
determine which partition should be sent to the other side.
B.1 Parameterization Tuning & Estimations
Table 4 compares various set reconciliation schemes based on the required parameters and estima-
tors. Notably, CertainSync constructions stand out due to their lack of parameters or estimators.
This simplicity makes CertainSync constructions particularly advantageous for applications where
minimizing implementation complexity and tuning is critical.
Table 4. Comparison of parametrization and estimators across different set reconciliation schemes. The hash
count parameter refers to the number of cells each element should be mapped to.
Scheme Parameters Needed Estimators Used
CPI [26] (i) Upper bound for
symmetric diff. size𝑚 None
Graphene [30]
(i) Hedge factor𝜏
(ii) Hash count
(iii) Success prob.𝑝
(i) IBLT-Param-Search
Difference Digest [11] (i) Hash count
(ii)𝛼
(i) Strata Estimator
for symmetric
diff. size
Cuckoo Filter [23]
(i) # bucket𝑚
(ii) # fingerprint𝑏
(iii) Hash count
None
Rateless IBLT [39] (i) Hash count None
LFFZ IBLT [28] (i) Hash count None
CertainSync EGH None None
CertainSync OLS None None
CertainSync Extended Hamming None None

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 25
C NOTATIONS
Table 5. Summary of main notations
Symbol Meaning
Δ Symmetric difference
Δ𝑚𝑑 Incremental communication overhead
𝐻𝑛 Extended Hamming code parity check matrix
𝐻
′
𝑛 Submatrix of𝐻𝑛 containing all binary column vectors of length log2(𝑛)
H Hash function
Φ Reverse mapping to universe reduction
Π𝑘 The product of first𝑘 primes
𝑃1,𝑃2 Participant 1 and 2
𝑅𝑛 Special matrix where each row consists of a single repeated value (0 to𝑛− 1)
𝑅𝑇
𝑛 Transpose of𝑅𝑛 matrix
𝑆 Set of elements
𝑆𝑟 Set of reduced elements
𝑈 Universe from which elements are selected
IBLT{Δ} IBLT containing elements from symmetric difference
MOLS(𝑛) Mutually Orthogonal Latin Squares of order𝑛
𝑀 Binary mapping matrix
𝑀𝑛,𝑑 𝑑-decodable rateless matrix
𝑒 Element value
𝑒𝑟 Reduced element value
𝑚𝑑 Total communication overhead
𝑚∗(𝑛,𝑑) Minimal number of rows of a𝑑-decodable matrix
𝑛 Universe size -|𝑈|
𝑛𝑟 Reduced universe size
𝑠(𝑀) Stopping distance of matrix𝑀
𝑠𝑖 Hash salt for round𝑖
𝑝𝑗 The 𝑗-th prime number
[𝑘] For positive integer𝑘, denotes the set{1,...,𝑘 }
[𝑘]0 For positive integer𝑘, denotes the set{0,...,𝑘 − 1}
(𝑚1,...,𝑚 𝑑) Decodability profile of matrix𝑀𝑛,𝑑

26 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
D ADDITIONAL ALGORITHMS
We present algorithms that illustrate key concepts discussed in the paper.
Algorithm 2: Traditional Set Reconciliation using IBLTs subtraction [11]
Input: 𝑆1,𝑆2 (Sets held by Participant 1 (𝑃1) and Participant 2 (𝑃2) respectively)
Output: Δ =(𝑆1\𝑆2)∪( 𝑆2\𝑆1) (Symmetric Difference set)
𝑃1 estimates the symmetric difference size|Δ| locally or by communication with𝑃2.
𝑃1 constructs𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇1 representing𝑆1 with𝛼|Δ| cells, where𝛼≥ 1
𝑃1 sends𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇1 to𝑃2
𝑃2 constructs𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇2 representing𝑆2 with𝛼|Δ| cells, where𝛼≥ 1
𝑃2 calculates𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{Δ} =𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇1\𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇2
𝑃2 lists the elements in𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{Δ} to find the symmetric difference between the two
participants with some success probability𝑝.
Δ =𝐿𝑖𝑠𝑡𝐸𝑙𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠(𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{Δ},𝑝)
return Δ
ConstructIBLT algorithm to construct an IBLT by mapping elements from set 𝑆 using a 𝑑-
decodable rateless matrix.
Algorithm 3: ConstructIBLT: Construct an IBLT from a set using a𝑑-decodable rateless
matrix construction
Input: 𝑆 (set of elements),𝑖 (iteration number)
Output:𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{𝑆} Cells
𝑛← Universe size
Initialize IBLT with Δ𝑚𝑖 cells, each having fields: count, xorSum, checkSum
/* Assuming 𝑥 can be indexed */
foreach𝑥∈𝑆 do
𝑘← Index of𝑥 in𝑆
for 𝑗←𝑚𝑖−1 to𝑚𝑖− 1 do
if𝑀𝑛,𝑖[𝑗][𝑘] == 1 then
𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇[𝑗].count←𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇[𝑗].count+ 1
𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇[𝑗].xorSum←𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇[𝑗].xorSum⊕𝑥
𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇[𝑗].checkSum←𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇[𝑗].checkSum⊕ Hash(𝑥)
return𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{𝑆} Cells
IBLTDiff algorithm to compute the IBLT of the symmetric difference (IBLT{Δ}) by performing
IBLTs subtraction.

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 27
Algorithm 4: IBLTDiff: Construct IBLT of Symmetric Difference (𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{Δ})
Input: 𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇2 (IBLT of𝑃2),𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇1 (IBLT of𝑃1),𝑖 (iteration number)
Output:𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{Δ}
for 𝑗← 0 to𝑚𝑖− 1 do
𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇2[𝑗].count -=𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇1[𝑗].count
𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇2[𝑗].xorSum⊕ =𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇1[𝑗].xorSum
𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇2[𝑗].checkSum⊕ =𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇1[𝑗].checkSum
return𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇2
DecodeDiff algorithm to recover the symmetric difference Δ by iteratively identifying and
removing elements in pure cells from IBLT{Δ} until successful decoding or failure when nonempty
cells remain which are not pure.
Algorithm 5: DecodeDiff: List Symmetric Difference
Input: 𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{Δ} (IBLT of symmetric difference),𝑖 (iteration number)
Output: Δ (Symmetric difference) or FAIL
Δ←∅
while true do
/* Peeling Decoder - retrieve 𝑠𝑦𝑚𝑏𝑜𝑙 from pure cell if found */
𝑠𝑦𝑚𝑏𝑜𝑙← peelingDecoder.decode(𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{Δ})
if𝑠𝑦𝑚𝑏𝑜𝑙 is None then
if𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{Δ} is not empty then
return FAIL
else
break
Add𝑠𝑦𝑚𝑏𝑜𝑙 to Δ
/* Remove 𝑠𝑦𝑚𝑏𝑜𝑙 from IBLT cells */
for 𝑗← 0 to𝑚𝑖 - 1 do
if𝑀𝑛,𝑖[𝑗][𝑠𝑦𝑚𝑏𝑜𝑙− 1] == 1 then
𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{Δ}[𝑗].remove(𝑠𝑦𝑚𝑏𝑜𝑙)
return Δ

28 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
E ADDITIONAL EXAMPLES OF CERTAINSYNC CONSTRUCTIONS
We present a collection of examples that demonstrate various concepts discussed in different
sections throughout the paper.
Example (EGH Rateless Matrix).
For𝑛 = 5 columns, we construct a 2-decodable rateless matrix𝑀𝐼
5,2 using the EGH method.
Step 1: We need to find the smallest integer 𝑘2 such that the product of the first 𝑘2 prime
numbers Π𝑘2 is greater than or equal to𝑛2. For𝑛 = 5 and𝑖 = 2, it is possible to show that the value
of𝑘2 is 3, since Π3 = 30≥𝑛2 = 25.
Step 2: Let𝑚2 = ˝𝑘2
𝑗=1𝑝𝑗, where𝑝𝑗 is the 𝑗-th prime. The first three primes are 2, 3, 5:𝑚2 =
2+ 3+ 5 = 10.
Step 3: For each 𝑗∈[ 𝑘2], we define the submatrix𝑀𝑗∈{ 0, 1}𝑝 𝑗×𝑛 as:
𝑀𝑗[𝑥,𝑦] =
(
1 if𝑦+ 1≡𝑥 (mod 𝑝𝑗)
0 otherwise
for𝑥∈[ 𝑝𝑗]0 and𝑦∈[ 𝑛]0.
The resulting submatrices are:
𝑀1 =
0 1 0 1 0
1 0 1 0 1

,𝑀 2 =

0 0 1 0 0
1 0 0 1 0
0 1 0 0 1

,𝑀 3 =

0 0 0 0 1
1 0 0 0 0
0 1 0 0 0
0 0 1 0 0
0 0 0 1 0

.
Step 4: Finally, the EGH matrix𝑀𝐼
5,2 is formed by the vertical concatenation of these submatrices:
𝑀𝐼
5,2 =

𝑀1
𝑀2
𝑀3

=

0 1 0 1 0
1 0 1 0 1
0 0 1 0 0
1 0 0 1 0
0 1 0 0 1
0 0 0 0 1
1 0 0 0 0
0 1 0 0 0
0 0 1 0 0
0 0 0 1 0

.
The resulting matrix𝑀𝐼
5,2 is of size 10× 5, where𝑚2 = 10.
Example (OLS Rateless Matrix). For𝑛 = 6 columns, we construct a 3-decodable rateless matrix
𝑀𝐼𝐼
6,3 using the OLS method.
Step 1: We calculate the value𝑠 =⌈
√
6⌉ = 3, which is a prime (also prime power by definition),
and𝑚𝑖 =𝑖·𝑠 = 3· 3 = 9.
Step 2: For each 𝑗∈{ 0, 1, 2}, we define the submatrix𝑀𝑗∈{ 0, 1}𝑠×𝑛 as:
For 𝑗 = 0
a) Use the special matrix𝑅3:
𝑅3 =𝐿0 =

0 0 0
1 1 1
2 2 2


CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 29
b) For each𝑘∈[ 6]0:
(1) 𝑥 =⌊𝑘/𝑠⌋ =⌊𝑘/3⌋
(2) 𝑦 =𝑘 mod𝑠 =𝑘 mod 3
(3) Set 𝑀0[𝑥,𝑘] = 1 if𝑥 =𝑅3[𝑥,𝑦], otherwise 0.
Resulting𝑀0:
𝑀0 =

1 1 1 0 0 0
0 0 0 1 1 1
0 0 0 0 0 0

For 𝑗 = 1
a) Use the Latin square𝐿1:
𝐿1 =

0 1 2
1 2 0
2 0 1

b) For each𝑘∈[ 6]0:
(1) 𝑥 =⌊𝑘/𝑠⌋ =⌊𝑘/3⌋
(2) 𝑦 =𝑘 mod𝑠 =𝑘 mod 3
(3) Set 𝑀1[𝑥,𝑘] = 1 if𝑥 =𝐿1[𝑥,𝑦], otherwise 0.
Resulting𝑀1:
𝑀1 =

1 0 0 0 0 1
0 1 0 1 0 0
0 0 1 0 1 0

For 𝑗 = 2
a) Use the Latin square𝐿2:
𝐿2 =

0 1 2
2 0 1
1 2 0

b) Similar to the construction of𝑀1, the resulting𝑀2:
𝑀2 =

1 0 0 0 1 0
0 1 0 0 0 1
0 0 1 1 0 0

It is easily seen that𝑅3∪{𝐿𝑗| 1≤ 𝑗 < 3} is a mutually orthogonal set.
Step 3: The OLS matrix𝑀𝐼𝐼
6,3 is formed by the vertical concatenation of these submatrices:
𝑀𝐼𝐼
6,3 =

𝑀0
𝑀1
𝑀2

=

1 1 1 0 0 0
0 0 0 1 1 1
0 0 0 0 0 0
1 0 0 0 0 1
0 1 0 1 0 0
0 0 1 0 1 0
1 0 0 0 1 0
0 1 0 0 0 1
0 0 1 1 0 0

The resulting matrix𝑀𝐼𝐼
6,3 is of size 9× 6, where𝑚2 = 9.

30 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
Example (Extended Hamming Rateless Matrix). For𝑛 = 8 columns, using the Extended
Hamming method, we construct the 3-decodable rateless matrix𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
8,3 , given as follows:
𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
8,3 =

1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1
0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1
0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1
1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0
1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0
1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0

The resulting matrix𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
8,3 is of size 7× 8.
Example. Suppose we want to transmit a set of source symbols. Let the set of Participant 1 (𝑃1) be
𝑆1 ={1}.
Encoding. We start by encoding the source symbols into a chunk of IBLT cells that represent
the code symbols. The mapping itself is performed with Construction I (EGH). Let us assume that
the universe size𝑛 is 5. Also, we use the simplifying assumption mentioned above, where the set
of Participant 2 (𝑃2) be𝑆2 which is a superset of 𝑆1. Specifically, let𝑆2 ={1, 2, 4} such that the
symmetric difference size|Δ| = 2.
The mapping matrix𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is responsible for mapping elements of𝑆1 and𝑆2 to IBLT cells, where at
each iteration, some amount of IBLT cells (each cell here denoted with𝐶𝑖 where𝑖 is its number)
are transmitted between the participants. For each iteration, a specific number of rows from the
mapping matrix is used for encoding, as the total number of rows is unknown in advance, as the
symmetric difference size is unknown in advance.
𝑀𝐼
5,2 1 2 3 4 5
𝐶1 0 1 0 1 0
𝐶2 1 0 1 0 1
𝐶3 0 0 1 0 0
𝐶4 1 0 0 1 0
𝐶5 0 1 0 0 1
... ...
In this example with EGH, prime numbers are used such that each amount of IBLT cells trans-
mitted at each iteration is a prime number. Here,𝑃1 constructs cells according to algorithm 3 in
Appendix D, and transmits the first 2 cells, then 3, 5, and so on. Note that the elements row is not a
field of an IBLT cell - just for convenience to see which elements each cell represents.
Iteration 1 C1 C2
count 0 1
xorSum 0 1
checkSum 0 𝐻(1)
Elements - 1
Iteration 2 C3 C4 C5
count 0 1 0
xorSum 0 1 0
checkSum 0 𝐻(1) 0
Elements - 1 -
Iteration 3 5 cells
count . . .
xorSum . . .
checkSum . . .
Elements . . .
Transmission.𝑃1 transmits at each iteration a prime amount of cells in ascending order (2, 3, 5,
7...) and waits for acknowledgment from𝑃2 before sending another chunk of a prime number of
cells.

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 31
Reception and Decoding. 𝑃2 collects the transmitted cells at each iteration. In our example,
after the first two iterations, the receiver has collected 5 cells:
Iteration 1 Iteration 2
C1 C2 C3 C4 C5
count 0 1 0 1 0
xorSum 0 1 0 1 0
checkSum 0 𝐻(1) 0 𝐻(1) 0
Elements - 1 - 1 -
𝑃2 saves𝑃1’s cells it has received and constructs more cells of its own𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇2 from its set{1, 2, 4}
using the same mapping matrix as𝑃1.
Iteration 1 Iteration 2
C1 C2 C3 C4 C5
count 2 1 0 2 1
xorSum 2⊕ 4 1 0 1⊕ 4 2
checkSum 𝐻(2)⊕ 𝐻(4) 𝐻(1) 0 𝐻(1)⊕ 𝐻(4) 𝐻(2)
Elements 2, 4 1 - 1, 4 2
𝑃2 calculates𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{Δ} according to algorithm 4 in Appendix D.
Iteration 1 Iteration 2
C1 C2 C3 C4 C5
count 2 0 0 1 1
xorSum 2⊕ 4 0 0 4 2
checkSum 𝐻(2)⊕ 𝐻(4) 0 0 𝐻(4) 𝐻(2)
Elements 2, 4 - - 4 2
𝑃2 performs listing according to algorithm 5 in Appendix D to the calculated𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{Δ}, and in case of
failure, asks𝑃1 for more IBLT cells; otherwise, yielding the symmetric difference setΔ ={2, 4}. This
means that elements{2, 4} are present in𝑃2’s set but not in𝑃1’s, thus representing the symmetric
difference between the two sets. In this example,𝑃2 asks𝑃1 for more cells after iteration 1 due to
the lack of pure cells in iteration 1 of𝐼𝐵𝐿𝑇{Δ}.

32 Tomer Keniagin, Eitan Yaakobi, and Ori Rottenstreich
F ADDITIONAL PROOFS
We present mathematical properties and proofs of CertainSync constructions, that establish the
certainty of those constructions for set reconciliation, including the EGH, OLS, and Extended
Hamming. As stated in [28] (Corollary 2) and derived from Lemma 1 in [18], for the EGH matrix
from Definition 4.2, the following holds:
Corollary F.1. For𝑛 and𝑑, the EGH matrix 𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a(𝑑+1)-decodable matrix.
Moreover, as shown in [10] (Theorem 1), there is an upper bound on the number of rows in the
EGH matrix𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑖, which is given by𝑚(𝑛,𝑖) < ⌈2𝑖 ln𝑛⌉2
2 ln⌈2𝑖 ln𝑛⌉·

1+ 1.2762
ln⌈2𝑖 ln𝑛⌉

. This upper bound results
in the following asymptotic complexity 𝑚(𝑛,𝑖) = 𝑂

𝑖2 log2𝑛
log𝑖+log log𝑛

. The incremental number of
rows, Δ𝑚𝑖, of the EGH matrix, also has an upper bound, as shown in Theorem 1 in [10], and is given
by Δ𝑚𝑖 < ⌈2𝑖 ln𝑛⌉
2 ln⌈2𝑖 ln𝑛⌉·

1+ 1.2762
ln⌈2𝑖 ln𝑛⌉

. Thus, asymptotically we have that Δ𝑚𝑖 = 𝑂

𝑖 log𝑛
log𝑖+log log𝑛

.
In order to show that the EGH matrix𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is also a(𝑑+1)-decodable rateless matrix, we use the
observation that for𝑖 and𝑛, the EGH matrix𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑖 is a submatrix of the EGH matrix𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑖+1.
Theorem F.2. For𝑛 and𝑑, the EGH matrix 𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a(𝑑+1)-decodable rateless matrix, where for
2≤ 𝑖≤ 𝑑+ 1, the decodability profile is 𝑚𝑖 = ˝𝑘𝑖
𝑗=1𝑝𝑗, where𝑘𝑖 is the smallest integer such that
Π𝑘𝑖≥𝑛𝑖 . Furthermore,𝑚1 =𝑚2.
Proof. To prove that the EGH matrix𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a(𝑑+ 1)-decodable rateless matrix, we need to
show that there exist positive integers𝑚1≤𝑚2≤···≤ 𝑚𝑑+1 such that for each 1≤𝑖≤𝑑+ 1, the
𝑚𝑖×𝑛 submatrix formed by the first𝑚𝑖 rows of the EGH matrix is𝑖-decodable. For 2≤𝑖≤𝑑+ 1, it
holds that the submatrix of𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 which is formed by the first𝑚(𝑛,𝑖) rows of the matrix𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is the
matrix𝑀𝐼
𝑛,𝑖−1 and hence, by Corollary F.1 it is𝑖-decodable. Lastly, since we don’t have a submatrix
of𝑀𝐼
𝑛,1 which is 1-decodable we simply set𝑚1 =𝑚2. □
As stated in [28] (Corollary 2), and based on Theorem 3.1 from [33], for the OLS matrix from
Definition 4.4 , the following holds:
Corollary F.3. For𝑛 and𝑑, the OLS matrix 𝑀𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a𝑑-decodable matrix.
Theorem F.4. For𝑛 where⌈√𝑛⌉ is a prime power, and 𝑑 = ⌈√𝑛⌉, the OLS matrix 𝑀𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a
⌈√𝑛⌉-decodable rateless matrix, where for 1≤𝑖≤⌈√𝑛⌉, the decodability profile is 𝑚𝑖 =𝑖·⌈√𝑛⌉.
Proof. In order to prove that the OLS matrix𝑀𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a⌈√𝑛⌉-decodable rateless matrix, we need
to show that there exist positive integers𝑚1≤𝑚2≤···≤ 𝑚⌈√𝑛⌉ such that for each 1≤𝑖≤⌈√𝑛⌉,
the𝑚𝑖×𝑛 submatrix formed by the first𝑚𝑖 rows of the OLS matrix is𝑖-decodable. For 1≤𝑖≤⌈√𝑛⌉,
it holds that the submatrix of𝑀𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 which is formed by the first𝑖·𝑠 rows of the matrix𝑀𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is the
matrix𝑀𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑖 and hence, by Corollary F.3 it is𝑖-decodable. □
Following Theorem F.4, the incremental number of rows is Δ𝑚𝑖 =𝑚𝑖−𝑚𝑖−1 =⌈√𝑛⌉.
In order to show that the Extended Hamming matrix𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
𝑛,3 from Definition 4.6 is a 3-decodable
rateless matrix, we use the property that the stopping redundancy of an extended Hamming code
of length 2𝑚 is 2𝑚− 1, as proved in Theorem 1 by [ 12], and according to Theorem 4 from [ 28],
there exists a 3-decodable matrix with 2𝑚− 1 rows.
Theorem F.5. For𝑛≥ 8 and𝑑 = 3, the Extended Hamming matrix 𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a 3-decodable rateless
matrix, where the decodability profile is (𝑚1,𝑚 2,𝑚 3) =(1,⌈log2𝑛⌉+ 1, 2⌈log2𝑛⌉+ 1).

CertainSync: Rateless Set Reconciliation with Certainty 33
Proof. In order to prove that the Extended Hamming matrix 𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
𝑛,𝑑 is a 3-decodable rateless
matrix, we need to show that there exist positive integers 𝑚1 ≤ 𝑚2 ≤ 𝑚3 such that for each
1≤𝑖≤ 3, the𝑚𝑖×𝑛 submatrix formed by the first𝑚𝑖 rows of the Extended Hamming matrix is
𝑖-decodable. For𝑖 = 1, the submatrix𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
𝑛,1 consists of the first row of 𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
𝑛,3. This row is a vector
of all ones, and thus it is 1-decodable because each column has a weight of 1. For 𝑖 = 2 , the
submatrix𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
𝑛,2 consists of the first⌈log2𝑛⌉+ 1 rows of𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
𝑛,3. According to the definition of the
Extended Hamming matrix, each pair of distinct columns in this submatrix differs in at least one
row, implying that the matrix is 2-decodable; for any pair of columns, there exists at least one row
with a weight of 1. For𝑖 = 3, it holds that the matrix𝑀𝐼𝐼𝐼
𝑛,3 is 3-decodable as it includes the rows
of the specific parity check matrix presented in [12] (Corollary 1), which is 3-decodable based on
Theorem 4 from [28]. □