Keep the Dirt: Tainted TreeKEM, Adaptively and Actively
Secure Continuous Group Key Agreement
Jo¨ el Alwen1, Margarita Capretto 2, Miguel Cueto 3, Chethan Kamath, Karen Klein 3⋆, Ilia Markov3,
Guillermo Pascual-Perez3⋆⋆, Krzysztof Pietrzak 3⋆, Michael Walter3⋆, and Michelle Yeo3⋆⋆
1 Wickr Inc.
2 Universidad Nacional de Rosario
3 IST Austria
{gpascual@ist.ac.at}
Abstract. While messaging systems with strong security guarantees are widely used in practice, de-
signing a protocol that scales eﬃciently to large groups and enjoys similar security guarantees remains
largely open. The two existing proposals to date are ART (Cohn-Gordon et al., CCS18) and TreeKEM
(IETF, The Messaging Layer Security Protocol, draft). TreeKEM is the currently considered candidate
by the IETF MLS working group, but dynamic group operations (i.e. adding and removing users) can
cause eﬃciency issues. In this paper we formalize and analyze a variant of TreeKEM which we term
Tainted TreeKEM (TTKEM for short). The basic idea underlying TTKEM was suggested by Milli-
can (MLS mailing list, February 2018). This version is more eﬃcient than TreeKEM for some natural
distributions of group operations, we quantify this through simulations.
Our second contribution is two security proofs for TTKEM which establish post compromise and
forward secrecy even against adaptive attackers. Ifn is the group size and Q the number of operations,
the security loss (to the underlying PKE) in the Random Oracle Model is a polynomial factor ( Qn)2,
and in the Standard Model a quasipolynomial Qlog(n). Our proofs can be adapted to TreeKEM as well.
Before our work no security proof for any TreeKEM-like protocol establishing tight security against
an adversary who can adaptively choose the sequence of operations was known. We also are the ﬁrst
to prove (or even formalize) active security where the server can arbitrarily deviate from the protocol
speciﬁcation. Proving fully active security – where also the users can arbitrarily deviate – remains
open.
1 Introduction
Messaging systems allow for asynchronous communication, where parties need not be online at the same
time. Messages are buﬀered by an untrusted delivery server, and then relayed to the receiving party when
it comes online. Secure messaging protocols (like Open Whisper Systems’ Signal Protocol) provide end-to-
end privacy and authenticity but, by having parties perform regular key updates, also stronger security
guarantees like forward secrecy (FS) and post-compromise security (PCS). Here, FS means that even if a
party gets compromised, previously delivered messages (usually all messages prior to the last key update)
remain private. In turn, PCS guarantees that even if a party was compromised and its state leaks, normal
protocol execution after the compromise ensures that eventually (usually after the next key update) future
messages will again be private and authenticated.
Most existing protocols were originally designed for the two party case and do not scale beyond that.
Thus, group messaging protocols are usually built on top of a complete network of two party channels.
Unfortunately, this means that message sizes (at least for the crucial key update operations) grow linearly in
the group size. In view of this, constructing messaging schemes that provide strong security – in particular
⋆ Funded by the European Research Council (ERC) under the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and inno-
vation programme (682815 - TOCNeT)
⋆⋆ Funded by European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under the Marie Sk lodowska-Curie
Grant Agreement No. 665385.

FS and PCS – while eﬃciently 4 scaling to larger groups is an important but challenging open problem.
Designing such a protocol is the ongoing focus of the IETF working group Message Layer Security (MLS)
[1].
Instead of constructing a messaging scheme directly, a modular approach seems more natural. This was
done for the two party case by Alwen et al. [2]. We consider in this paper the concept of Continuous Group
Key Agreement (CGKA), a generalisation for groups of their Continuous Key Agreement (CKA). Such a
primitive can then be used to build a group messaging protocol as in [2].
1.1 Continuous Group Key Agreement
Informally, in a CGKA protocol any party ID1 can initialise a group G = (ID1,..., IDn) by sending a message
to all group members, from which each group member can compute a shared group key I. ID1 must know a
public key pki of each invitee IDi, which in practice could be realized by having a key-server where parties can
deposit their keys. As this key-management problem is largely orthogonal to the construction of a CGKA,
we will assume that such an infrastructure exists.
Apart from initialising a group, CGKA allows any group member IDi to update its key. Informally, after
an Update 5 operation the state of IDi is secure even if its previous state completely leaked to an adversary.
Moreover any group member can add a new party, or remove an existing one.
These operations (Update, Add, Remove) require sending a message to all members of the group. As we
do not assume that the parties are online at the same time, IDi cannot simply send a message to IDj. Instead,
all protocol messages are exchanged via an untrusted delivery server. Although the server can always prevent
any communication taking place, we require that the shared group key in the CGKA protocol – and thus
the messages encrypted in the messaging system built upon it – remains private.
Another issue we must take into account is the fact that (at least for the protocols discussed below)
operations must be performed in the same order by all parties in order to maintain a consistent state. Even
if the delivery server is honest, it can happen that two parties try to execute an operation at the same time.
In this case, an ordering must be enforced, and it is natural to let the delivery server do it. Whenever a
party wants to initiate an Update/Remove/Add operation, it sends the message to the delivery server and
waits for an answer. If it gets a conﬁrmation, it updates its state and deletes the old one. If it gets a reject,
it deletes the new state and keeps the old one. Note that when a party gets corrupted while waiting for the
conﬁrmation, both, the old and new state are leaked.
The formalization of CGKA is fairly recent, having ﬁrst been introduced in [3]. In particular, the MLS
working group predates it, which only complicates any account of its development. We try to give a brief
overview below. Up to the writing of this paper, the MLS protocol has seen 9 versions, through which we can
ﬁnd two diﬀerent CGKA protocols: ART and TreeKEM, both of which were incorporated as candidates in
the initial MLS protocol draft. ART was later removed in the second version of the protocol, with TreeKEM
(which has seen several modiﬁcations throughout the diﬀerent versions) being the current candidate. Ac-
cordingly, we will refer to the CGKA construction underlying version X of the MLS draft as TreeKEMvX.
We will also loosely use the term TreeKEM when referring to aspects that are not unique to speciﬁc versions
or when there is no ambiguity.
Asynchronous Ratcheting Tree (ART) The ﬁrst proposal of (a simpliﬁed variant of) a CGKA is the
Asynchronous Ratcheting Tree (ART) by Cohn-Gordon et al. [4]. This protocol (as well as TreeKEM and
the protocol formalized in this paper) identiﬁes the group with a binary tree where edges are directed and
point from the leaves to the root. 6 Each party IDi in the group is assigned their own leaf, which is labelled
with an ElGamal secret key xi (known only to IDi) and a corresponding public value gxi. The values of
4 The meaning of eﬃcient here will be determined by what can be implemented and receive adoption by the general
public, but we think of it as having message sizes (poly)logarithmic in the size of the group.
5 We use capital letters to refer to the operations (as opposed to verbs).
6 The non standard direction of the edges here captures that knowledge of (the secret key of) the source node implies
knowledge of the (secret key of the) sink node. Note that nodes therefore have one child and two parents.

internal nodes are deﬁned recursively: an internal node whose two parents have secret values a and b has
the secret value gab and public value gι(gab), where ι is a map to the integers. The secret value of the root is
the group key. As illustrated in Figure 1, a party can update its secret key x to a new key x′ by computing
a new path from x′ to the (new) root, and then send the public values on this new path to everyone in the
group so they can switch to the new tree. Note that the number of values that must be shared equals the
depth of the tree, and thus (as the tree is balanced) is only logarithmic in the size of the group.
The authors prove the ART protocol secure even against adaptive adversaries. However, in this case, their
reduction loses a factor that is super-exponential in the group size. To get meaningful security guarantees
based on this reduction requires a security parameter for the ElGamal scheme that is super-linear in the
group size, resulting in large messages and defeating the whole purpose of using a tree structure.
TreeKEM The TreeKEM proposal [5, 6] is similar to ART, as a group is still mapped to a balanced binary
tree where each node is assigned a public and secret value. In TreeKEM those values are the public/secret
key pair for an arbitrary public-key encryption scheme. As in ART, each leaf is assigned to a party, and only
this party should know the secret key of its leaf, while the secret key of the root is the group key. Unlike
in ART, TreeKEM does not require any relation between the secret key of a node and the secret key of its
parent nodes. Instead, an edge u→v in the tree (recall that edges are directed and pointing from the leaves
to the root) denotes that the secret key of v is encrypted under the public key of u. This ciphertext can now
be distributed to the subset of the group who knows the secret key of u to convey the secret key of v to
them. We will refer to this as “encrypting v to u”. Below we will outline a slightly simpliﬁed construction,
close to TreeKEMv7, which will later ease the understanding of the protocol here proposed.
To initialise a group, the initiating party creates a tree by assigning the leaves to the keys of the invited
parties. She then samples fresh secret/public-key pairs for the internal nodes of the tree and computes the
ciphertexts corresponding to all the edges in the tree. (Note that leaves have no ingoing edges and thus the
group creator only needs to know their public keys.) Finally she sends all ciphertexts to the delivery server.
If a party comes online, it receives the ciphertexts corresponding to the path from its leaf to the root from
the server, and can then decrypt (as it has the secret key of the leaf) the nodes on this path all the way up
to the group key in the root.
As illustrated in Figure 1, this construction naturally allows for adding and removing parties. If IDi wants
to remove IDj, she simply samples a completely fresh path from a (fresh) leaf to a (fresh) root replacing the
path from IDj’s leaf to the root. She then computes and shares all the ciphertexts required for the parties
to switch to this new path except the ciphertext that encrypts to IDj’s leaf. IDi can add IDj similarly, she
just samples a fresh path starting at a currently not occupied leaf, using IDj’s key as the new leaf node, and
communicates the new keys to IDj. This process can be optimized if the keys are derived hierarchically, from
a hash chain of seeds, so that a single seed needs to be encrypted to each party.
Unfortunately, adding and removing parties like this creates a new problem. After IDi added or removed
IDj, it knows all the secret keys on the new path (except the leaf). To see why this is a problem, assume
IDi is corrupted while adding (or removing) IDj (and no other corruptions ever take place), and later – once
the adversary loses access to IDi’s state – IDi executes an Update. Assume we use a na¨ ıve protocol where
this Update replaces all the keys on the path from IDi’s leaf to the root (as in ART) but nothing else. As
IDi’s corruption also leaked keys not on this path, thus not replaced with the Update, the adversary will
potentially still be able to compute the new group key, so the Update failed to achieve PCS.
To address this problem, TreeKEM introduced the concept of blanking. In a nutshell, TreeKEM wants
to maintain the invariant that parties know only the secrets for nodes on the path from their leaf to the
root. However, if a party adds (or removes) another party as outlined above, this invariant no longer holds.
To ﬁx this, TreeKEM declares any nodes violating the invariant as not having any secret (nor public) value
assigned to them. Such nodes are said to be “blanked”, and the protocol basically speciﬁes to act as if the
child of a blank node is connected directly to the blanked node’s parents. In particular, when TreeKEM calls
for encrypting something to a blank node, users will instead encrypt to this node’s parents. In case one or
both parents are blanked, one recurses and encrypts to their parents and so forth.

This saves the invariant, but hurts eﬃciency, as we now no longer consider a binary tree and, depending
on the sequence of Adds and Removes, can end up with a “blanked” tree that has eﬀective indegree linear
in the number of parties. The reason one can still hope for TreeKEM’s eﬃciency to not degrade too much
and stay close to logarithmic in practice comes from the fact that blanked nodes can heal: whenever a party
performs an Update operation, all the blank nodes on the path from its leaf to the root become normal
again.
The protocol studied in this paper builds closely on the one just outlined. For completeness, we mention
that the design of TreeKEMv9 diﬀers in essentially two aspects. First, operations are not executed standalone,
but bundled into groups: users can at any point propose an operation, not having any impact on the group
state; then, a user IDj can collect those proposals and execute them at once in a Commit, which includes
an update of IDj’s path, and moves the group forward into a new epoch. This allows e.g. for IDi to propose
an Update by just sending their new leaf public key and waiting for someone else to commit that proposal
(which will in turn blank IDi’s path). Second, Adds no longer involve blanking: a new user’s leaf node will
be directly connected to the root, and progressively pushed down the tree as users within the appropriate
subtree commit. In particular, the initialization of the tree will now consist of a Commit including Add
proposals for each of the group members. Since none of these aspects help in the understanding of the
proposed protocol, we omit the details and refer the reader to the MLS draft [6].
1.2 Our Contribution
In this work we formalize an alternative CGKA design, stemming from TreeKEM, ﬁrst proposed by Millican
on the MLS mailing list on February 2018 7, which we call Tainted TreeKEM, or simply TTKEM. Further,
we show it to be more eﬃcient than TreeKEM on certain realistic scenarios and prove it to satisfy a com-
prehensive security statement which captures the intuition that an Update ﬁxes a compromised state. Our
proof can be easily adapted to TreeKEM, for which we can get exactly the same security statement.
Tainted TreeKEM (TTKEM) As just outlined, the reason TreeKEM can be ineﬃcient comes from the
fact that once a node is blanked, we cannot simply encrypt to it, but instead must encrypt to both its parents,
if those are blanked, to their parents, and so forth. The rationale for blanking is to enforce an invariant which
states that the secret key of any (non-blanked) node is only known to parties whose leaves are ancestors
of this node. This seems overly paranoid, assume Alice removed Henry as illustrated in Figure 1, then the
red nodes must be blanked as Alice knows their value, but it is instructive to analyze when this knowledge
becomes an issue if no blanking takes place: If Alice is not corrupted when sending the Remove operation
to the delivery server there is no issue as she will delete secret keys she should not know right after sending
the message. If Alice is corrupted then the adversary learns those secret keys. But even though now the
invariant doesn’t hold, it is not a security issue as an adversary who corrupted Alice will know the group
key anyway. Only once Alice updates (by replacing the values on the path from her leaf to the root) there is
a problem, as without blanking not all secret keys known by the adversary are replaced, and thus he will be
able to decrypt the new group key; something an Update should have prevented (more generally, we want
the group key to be safe once all the parties whose state leaked have updated).
Keeping dirty nodes around, tainting versus blanking In TTKEM we use an alternative approach,
where we do not blank nodes, but instead keep track of which secret keys of nodes have been created by
parties who are not supposed to know them. Speciﬁcally, we refer to nodes whose secret keys were created
by a party IDi which is not an ancestor of the node as tainted (by IDi). The group keeps track of which nodes
are tainted and by whom. A node tainted by IDi will be treated like a regular node, except for the cases
where IDi performs an Update or is removed, in which it must get updated.
Let us remark that tainted nodes can heal similarly to blanked nodes: once a party performs an Update,
all nodes on the path from its leaf to the root are no longer tainted.
7 [MLS] Removing members from groups Jon Millican{jmillican@fb.com} 12 February 2018 https://mailarchive.
ietf.org/arch/msg/mls/4-gvXpc-LGbWoUS7DKGYG65lkxs

Asynchronous Ratcheting Tree (ART)
a b c d
e =gab f =gcd
gef
(a)
a b c d
e =gab f =gcd
gef
d′
f′ =gcd′
gef′
(b)
TreeKEM
A H
(c)
A HA
(d)
A H
(e)
A H
(f)
Fig. 1: Top: Illustration of an Update in the ART protocol. The state of the tree changes from (a) to (b) when Dave
(node d) updates his internal state to d′. Bottom: Update and Remove in TreeKEM and TreeKEM with blanking.
The state of a completely ﬁlled tree is shown in (c). The state changes from (c) to (d) when Alice (node A) performs
an Update operation. This changes to (e) when Alice removes Harry (node H) in na¨ ıve TreeKEM (with the nodes
that Alice should not know in red) or to (f) in the actual TreeKEM protocol which uses blanking.
Eﬃciency of TTKEM vs TreeKEM Eﬃciency-wise TreeKEM and TTKEM are incomparable. De-
pending on the sequence of operations performed either TreeKEM or TTKEM can be more eﬃcient (or
they can be identical). Thus, which one will be more eﬃcient in practice will depend on the distribution of
operation patterns we observe. In Section 2.4 we show that for some natural cases TTKEM will signiﬁcantly
outperform TreeKEM. This improvement is most patent in the case where a small subset of parties perform
most of the Add and Remove operations. In practice, this could correspond to a setting where we have a
small group of administrators who are the only parties allowed to add/remove parties. The eﬃciency gap
grows further if the administrators have a lower risk of compromise than other group members and thus can
be required to update less frequently. In this setting, TTKEM approaches the eﬃciency of na¨ ıve TreeKEM.

When we compare the eﬃciency of the CGKA protocols we focus on the number of ciphertexts a party
must exchange with the delivery server for an (Update, Add or Remove) operation. The reason for this is
that the alternative metric of measuring the number of ciphertexts a party needs to download to process
an operation is not as relevant, since, all protocols considered, this number will be logarithmic in the worst
case.8
Security of (Tainted) TreeKEM A main contribution of this work is a security proof for TTKEM for
a comprehensible security statement that intuitively captures how Updates ensure FS and PCS, in a strong
security model. In particular, this constitutes the ﬁrst adaptive security proof for any TreeKEM-related
protocol. Moreover, both the security statement and the proof can be easily adapted to TreeKEM. We
elaborate in the following section.
1.3 The Adversarial Model
We anticipate an adversary who works in rounds, in each round it may adaptively choose an action, including
start/stop corrupting a party, instruct a party to initalize an operation or relay a message. The adversary
can choose to corrupt any party, after which its state becomes fully visible to the adversary. In particular,
corrupting a party gives the adversary access to the random coins used by said party when executing
any group operation, deeming the party’s actions deterministic in the eyes of the adversary throughout
the corruption. We would like to stress that security in this strong model implies security in weaker and
potentially more realistic models, e.g. consider the setting where malware in a device leaks some of the
randomness bits but cannot modify them. He can also choose to stop the corruption of a currently corrupted
party. The adversary can instruct a party to initalize an Init/Update/Remove/Add operation. This party
then immediately outputs the corresponding message to be sent to the delivery server. The goal of the
adversary is to break the security of a group key (i.e., a secret key that is contained in the root in the view
of at least one party) that – given the sequence of actions performed – it should not trivially know.
We now discuss diﬀerent possible restrictions on the adversary corresponding to qualitatively diﬀerent
levels of security.
Adaptiveness The literature distinguishes between selective and adaptive adversaries. In the selective
case, an adversary is required to make all or some of its choices (here this means the sequence of operations
and which key it is going to break) at the beginning of the security experiment, without seeing any public
keys or the results of previous actions. While it is often more convenient to prove security in this setting,
it is clearly unrealistic, since in the real world adversaries may adjust their behaviour based on what they
observe during the attack. So obviously, security against adaptive adversaries is desirable. There is a generic
reduction from selective to adaptive adversaries that simply guesses what the adversary may choose (this is
the approach eﬀectively taken in [7]). However, this involves a loss in the advantage that is exponential (or
even superexponential) in the size of the group. This means that in order to provably achieve meaningful
security, one needs to set the underlying security parameter linear in the group size, which results in the
Update messages having size linear in the group size (since they usually consist of encryptions of secret keys).
But the trivial construction based on pairwise channels also has message size that is linear in the number
of group members, so such a security proof defeats the whole purpose of the protocol: having small Update
messages! The adversaries we consider are adaptive while the security loss we achieve is only quasipolynomial
(or even polynomial) in the standard model (in the ROM, resp.; see details below).
Activeness One can classify adversaries with respect to their power to interact with the protocol during
the attack. For example, the weakest form of adversary would be a passive adversary, i.e. an eavesdropper
that only observes the communication but does not alter any messages. While the strongest notion would
be an active adversary who can behave completely arbitrarily. In this work we consider “partially” active
adversaries who can arbitrarily schedule the messages of the delivery server, and thus force diﬀerent users
8 There is, however, still room for improvement in the case where a group member comes online and must process a
large number of operations, as these could potentially be somehow batched by the server.

into inconsistent states. But we do not consider adversaries who can arbitrarily deviate and for example use
secret keys of corrupted parties to create malformed messages. Restricting to partially active adversaries is
fairly common in this setting [2, 8, 9] (also somewhat implied by the model of [10], where communication must
halt after an active attack). Achieving or even deﬁning meaningful security against fully active adversaries
is the subject of ongoing research [11].
Forward Secrecy FS (and PCS) are standard notions expected to hold in modern messaging protocols.
However, in contrast to the two-party setting, formalizing FS in the group setting is more nuanced. One
natural notion is to require that a key is secure if all parties have performed an update before being corrupted.
This is the notion considered in [7] and the one we adopt here and call it standard FS. In contrast, [3] deﬁnes
a stronger notion we refer to as strong FS . It requires keys to be secure as soon as possible subject to
not violating basic completeness of the CGKA protocol. However, this is only required in executions where
protocol packets are delivered in the same order to all group members. 9 The construction in [3] in fact
achieves strong FS, but only for adversaries that are much less active than ours. We provide some details in
the next section.
Constraints on PKE Forward Secrecy Adversary Tightness
Selective Adaptive
ART [4] ElGamal (or any other with Standard Passive O(n) (ROM) Ω ((nQ)n) (ROM)a contributive NIKE)
TreeKEM [6]** None Standard Passive O (n) (SM) Ω ((nQ)n) (SM)
*
rTreeKEM [3] UPKE Strong Passive O (n) (ROM) Ω ((nQ)n)
(ROM) *
TTKEM (this work) None Standard Part. activeO(n) (SM,ROM) O
(
n2Qlog(n)
)
(SM)
O
(
(nQ)2)
(ROM)
Table 1: Table depicting the diﬀerent security levels satisﬁed by CGKA protocols. The ﬁrst two columns correspond
to protocol characteristics, and the right-most three to the best known proofs. SM and ROM stand Standard and
Random Oracle Models, respectively. (*) These would follow from the selective proof via a straightforward complexity
leveraging argument. Such an argument is implicit in the proof of [4]. (**) [3] provides a sketch for a proof against
passive adaptive adversaries with a quasi-polynomial loss in the SM; this paper suggests proofs against part. active,
adaptive adversaries both in the SM and ROM, with the same tightness as the ones for TTKEM.
The safe predicate Providing PCS and FS requires to clearly deﬁne which keys we expect to be secure
given a sequence of adversarial actions. Given the asynchronous setting where group members might be in
diﬀerent states, and an active adversary that may force users into inconsistent states, this is quite involved.
Note that group members might even have diﬀerent views of who is currently a member of the group. We give
a compact and intuitive predicate that captures exactly what PCS and FS guarantees TTKEM provides.
The reduction in the standard model via piecewise guessing Recall that there is a trivial reduction
between selective and adaptive adversaries that simply guesses the necessary information and fails if the
guess was incorrect. This loses an exponential factor in the amount of information that needs to be guessed.
Jafargholi et al. [12] proposed a general framework (often refered to as piecewise guessing ) that allows to
reduce this loss under certain conditions. The resulting loss depends on the graph structure that naturally
arises from the security experiment. Applying the framework in the obvious way (which already requires non-
trivial eﬀort) we achieve a quasipolynomial security loss ≈ (Q·n)2 log(n), where n is an upper bound on the
number of group members and Q is the number of Init/Update/Remove/Add queries the adversary issues)
9 Going even further, the (eﬃcient but impractical) CGKA protocols of [11] enjoys optimal FS . That is keys must
become secure as soon as possible for arbitrary delivery order. In fact, 2 of their protocols enjoy optimal FS even
against adversaries that can arbitrarily manipulate and generate traﬃc; a type of active security even stronger
than the one considered in this work.

against partially active adversaries. Using a more careful analysis and taking the more restrictive structure
of the queries and the graph constructed in the TTKEM security game into account, we can improve this to
≈ Qlog(n). Our proof relies on [12] and requires familiarity with the framework, but is fully rigorous. We
note that all steps of the proof strategy also apply to TreeKEM, and so an equivalent proof for it would
easily follow.
The reduction in the ROM In (Tainted) TreeKEM, a node is identiﬁed with a short seeds, from which
the public/secret key pairs of this node are derived. If the randomness used to sample those keys is a hash of
s, and we model this hash as a random oracle, we can give a much better polynomial bound for the adaptive
security of TTKEM.
This proof is very diﬀerent from the proof in the standard model and does not use the piecewise guessing
framework. Some of the techniques resemble a security proof of Logical Key Hierarchies (cf. Section 1.4)
by Panjwani [13], but otherwise the proof is entirely self-contained and novel. Again, our proof can also be
applied to TreeKEM. As a sidenote, we prove and employ a new result on a public-key version of generalized
selective decryption (GSD, an abstraction of security experiments involving encryptions of keys) in the ROM,
which we believe to be of independent interest.
1.4 Related Work
The basic idea of TreeKEM can be traced back to Logical Key Hierarchies (LKH) [14–16]. These were
introduced as an eﬃcient solution to multicast key distribution (MKD), where a trusted and central authority
wants to encrypt messages to a dynamically changing group of receivers. Clearly, the main diﬀerence to
continuous group key agreements is the presence of a central authority that distributes the keys to users and
may add and remove users. At the heart of TreeKEM is the realization that if one replaces symmetric key
encryption with public key encryption in LKH, then any group member can perform the actions that the
central authority does in MKD. But, as described above, this introduces the problem that some users now
know the secret keys in parts of the tree they are not supposed to, which creates security problems. This is
where the main novelties of TreeKEM and follow up work lies: in providing mechnanisms to achieve PCS
and FS nonetheless.
LKH has been proven secure even against adaptive adversaries with a quasi-polynomial time bound [13].
Unfortunately, there are several important diﬀerences between LKH that do not allow us to simply rely on
[13] to prove TTKEM or TreeKEM secure: 1) their proof is in the symmetric key setting, while we are using
public key encryption; 2) their proof assumes a central authority and there is no concept of PCS or FS; 3)
for eﬃciency reasons, TTKEM and TreeKEM use hierarchical key derivation, which the proof in [13] does
not take into account (even though it had already been proposed in optimized versions of LKH [16]) and
it is a priori unclear how this aﬀects the proof; 4) we are also interested in proving security in the ROM,
which, as we show, gives tighter bounds.
Since the appearance of the double ratchet algorithm [17], implemented in applications like Signal or
Whatsapp, secure messaging has received a lot of attention, particularly in the two party case [18, 10, 19, 9,
20, 2]. In the group setting, the main example of such a protocol is TreeKEM [5, 6], currently in development
by the IETF MLS working group. Its predecesor was the ART protocol [4], whose proposal motivated the
creation of the mentioned working group. A study of PCS in settings with multiple groups was done by
Cremers et al. [8], and Weidner [21] explored a variant of TreeKEM allowing for less reliance on the server
for correctness. Finally, in a follow-up work, Alwen et al. [11] study the security of CGKA protocols against
insider attacks.
rTreeKEM Recently, Alwen et al. [3] introduced another variant of TreeKEM, termed re-randomized
TreeKEM (rTreeKEM). Since their paper structure shares similarities with ours, we will discuss the diﬀer-
ences between them.
First, it should be noted that the aims of the protocols are very diﬀerent: while TTKEM seeks to improve
the eﬃciency of TreeKEM by removing the need for blanks, rTreeKEM’s focus is on improving its forward
secrecy guarantees to achieve strong FS. However, we see no reason why one could not combine both protocols,

endowing TTKEM with strong FS. Moreover, it seems plausible that the proof techniques developed in this
work can also be applied to the rTreeKEM construction or to the combination of the two.
Second, their work already deﬁnes CGKA as an abstraction of the main problem TreeKEM aims to
solve. We use their completeness notion, but add a Conﬁrm and Deliver algorithm to their deﬁnition. The
reason for this is that we work in the more general model that allows a malicious delivery server, i.e. the
adversary can reorder and withhold messages at will. The model in [3] requires the delivery server to be
basically honest: the server can delay, but never send inconsistent messages to parties, i.e. the adversary in
[3] is almost passive.
Last, both works provide security proofs, albeit these diﬀer considerably. Their paper provides proofs
for both TreeKEM and rTreeKEM with a polynomial security loss, although these concern selective security
only. They also sketch a security proof against adaptive adversaries losing a quasi-polynomial factor (for
TreeKEM in the standard model, for rTreeKEM in the ROM). In contrast, we give formal proofs for the
adaptive security of TTKEM with only polynomial loss in the ROM and quasi-polynomial in the standard
model; and, as mentioned, against a stronger partially active adversary. Also, proofs with the same bounds
would follow for TreeKEM.
1.5 Impact on MLS
As of writing, the current version of the MLS draft (MLS v9) diﬀers substantially from TTKEM, mainly
due to the Proposal-Commit structure. However, it should be noted that TTKEM can be cast in that same
fashion, as it is indeed done in [11]. As with TreeKEM, the application of this framework would bring an
eﬃciency tradeoﬀ that should be studied carefully and which we leave for further work, though noting the
challenge in doing so without real world data. As for our security proofs, a security proof for TreeKEM
follows from the one given in the paper, so we believe this work to be of relevance to the MLS community.
2 Description of TTKEM
2.1 Asynchronous Continuous Group Key Agreement Syntax
Deﬁnition 1 (Asynchronous Continuous Group Key Agreement). An asynchronous continuous
group key agreement(CGKA) scheme is an 8-tuple of algorithms CGKA = (keygen, init, add, rem, upd, dlv, proc, key)
with the following syntax and semantics:
Key Generation: Fresh InitKey pairs are generated using (pk, sk)← keygen(1λ) by users prior to joining
a group. Public keys are used to invite parties to join a group.
Initialize a Group : Fori∈ [2,n ] let pki be an InitKey PK belonging to party IDi. Let G = (ID1,..., IDn).
Party ID1 creates a new group with membership G by running:
(γ, [W2,...,W n])← init (G, [pk1,..., pkn])
and sending welcome message Wi for party IDi to the server. Finally, ID1 stores its local state γ for
later use.
Adding a Member : A group member with local stateγ can add party ID to the group by running (γ′,W,T )←
add(γ, ID, pk) and sending welcome message W for party ID and the add message T for all group mem-
bers (including ID) to the server. He stores the old state γ and new pending state γ′ until getting a
conﬁrmation from the delivery server as deﬁned below.
Removing a Member : A group member with local stateγ can remove group memberID by running (γ′,T )←
rem(γ, ID) and sending the remove messageT for all group members ( ID) to the server and storing γ,γ′.
Update: A group member with local stateγ can perform an update by running (γ′,T )← upd(γ) and sending
the update message T for all group members to the server and storing γ,γ′.

Confirm and Deliver : The delivery server upon receiving a (set of) CGKA protocol message(s)T (includ-
ing welcome messages) generated by a party ID by running dlv(ID,T ) either sends T to the corresponding
member(s) and sends a message conﬁrm to ID, in which case ID deletes it’s old state γ and replaces it
with the new pending state γ′, or sends a message reject to ID, in which case ID deletes γ′.
Process: Upon receiving an incoming (set of) CGKA protocol message(s) T (including welcome messages)
a party immediately processes them by running (γ,I )← proc(γ,T ).
Get Group Key : At any point a party can extract the current group key I from its local stateγ by running
(γ,I )← key(γ).
We remark that while the protocol allows any group member to add a new party to the group as well
as remove any member from the group it is up to the higher level message protocol (or even higher level
application) to decide if such an operation is indeed permitted. (If not, then clients can always simply choose
to ignore the add/remove message.) At the CGKA level, though, all such operations are possible.
2.2 Overview
In this work, a directed binary tree T is deﬁned recursively as a graph that is either the empty graph, a
root node, or a root node whose parents are root nodes of trees themselves. Note that this corresponds to
a standard deﬁnition of trees with reversed edges. We choose this deﬁnition since it is much more intuitive
in our context and highlights the connection between the protocol and the GSD game used for the security
proof (cf. Deﬁnition 7). Note that paths in the tree now start at leaves and end at the root node. The nodes
in the tree are associated with the following values:
– a seed ∆
– (all nodes except the root) a secret/public key pair derived deterministically from the seed
(pk,sk )← Gen(∆)
– (only leaf nodes) a credential
– (all except leaves and root) a tainter ID
The root has no associated public/secret key pair, instead its seed is the current group key.
To achieve FS and PCS, and to manage group membership, it is necessary to constantly renew the secret
keys used in the protocol. We will do this through the group operations Update, Remove and Add. We
will use the term refresh to refer to the renewal of a particular (set of) key(s) (as opposed to the group
operation). Each group operation will refresh a part of the tree, always including the root and thus resulting
in a new group key which can be decrypted by all members of the current group. Users will also have a list
of Initialization Keys (init keys) stored in some key-server, widely available and regularly updated, and used
to add users to new groups.
Each group member should have a consistent view of the public information in the tree, namely public
keys, credentials, tainter IDs and past operations. We assume that a party will only process operations issued
by parties that (at the time of issuing) shared the same view of the tree. This can easily be enforced by
adding a (collision-resistant) hash of the operations processed so far [10, 9] 10. Furthermore, group members
will have a partial view of the secret keys. More precisely, every user has an associated protocol state γ(ID)
(or state for short when there is no ambiguity), which represents everything users need to know to stay part
of the group (we implicitly assume a particular group, considering diﬀerent groups secrets independent). In
particular, we deﬁne a state as the triple γ(ID) = (M,T,H), where
– M denotes the set of group members, i.e. ID’s that are part of the group
10 For eﬃciency reasons one could use a Merkle-Damg˚ ard hash so that from the hash of a (potentially long) stringT
we can eﬃciently compute the hash of T concatenated with a new operation t.

–T denotes a binary tree deﬁned as above, where for each group member, their credential is associated to
a leaf node.
–H denotes the hash of the group transcript so far, to ensure consistency.
Each user also has a, typically empty, pending state γ′(ID) which stores the updated group state resulting
from the last issued group operation while they wait for conﬁrmation.
As mentioned, a user will generally not have knowledge of the secret keys associated to all tree nodes.
However, if they add or remove parties, they will potentially gain knowledge of secret keys outside their
path. We observe that this will not be a problem as long as we have a mechanism to keep track of those
nodes and refresh them when necessary, towards this end we introduce the concept of tainting.
Tainting. Whenever party IDi refreshes a node not lying on their path to the root, that node becomes
tainted by IDi. Whenever a node is tainted by a party IDi, that party has potentially had knowledge of
its current secret in the past. So, if IDi was corrupted in the past, the secrecy of that value is considered
compromised (even if IDi deleted that value right away and is no longer compromised). Even worse, all values
that were encrypted to that node are compromised too. We will assign a tainter ID to all nodes. This can be
empty, i.e. the node is untainted, or corresponds to a single party’s ID, that who last generated this node’s
secret but is not supposed to know it. The tainter ID of a node is determined by the following simple rules.
– After ID initialises, all internal nodes not on ID’s path become tainted by ID.
– If ID updates or removes someone, refreshed nodes on ID’s path become untainted.
– If ID updates or removes someone, all refreshed nodes not on ID’s path become tainted by ID.
Hierarchical derivation of updates. When refreshing a whole path we sample a seed ∆0 and derive
all the secrets for that path from it. This way, we reduce the number of decryptions needed to process the
update, as parties only need to recover the seed for the “lowest” node that concerns them, and then can
derive the rest locally. To derive the diﬀerent new secrets we follow the speciﬁcation of TreeKEMv9 [6].
Essentially, we consider a hash function H, ﬁx two tags x1 and x2 and consider the two hash functions
H1,H 2 with Hi(·) =H(·,xi). Together with a Gen function that outputs a secret-public key pair, we derive
the keys for the nodes asfollows:
∆i+1 :=H1(∆i)
(ski,pki)← Gen(H2(∆i))
where ∆i is the seed for the ith node (the leaf being the 0th node, its child the 1st etc.) on the path and
(ski,pki) its new key pair. For the proof in the standard model we only require Hi to be pseudorandom
functions, with ∆i the key and xi the input.
With the introduction of tainting, it is no longer the case that all nodes to be refreshed lie on a path.
Hence, we partition the set of all the nodes to be refreshed into paths and use a diﬀerent seed for each
path. For this we need a unique path cover, as users processing the update will need to know which nodes
secrets depend on which. A concrete example is given in A.2, but any unambiguous partition suﬃces. The
only condition required is that the updating of paths is done in a particular common order that allows for
encryptions to to-be-refreshed nodes to be done under the respective updated public key (one cannot hope
for PCS otherwise).
Let us stress that a party processing an update involving tainted nodes might need to retrieve and decrypt
more than one encrypted seeds, as the refreshed nodes on its path might not all be derived hierarchically.
Nonetheless, party needs to decrypt at most log n ciphertexts in the worst case.
2.3 TTKEM Dynamics
Whenever a user IDi wants to perform a group operation, she will generate the appropriate Initialize, Update,
Add or Remove message, store the updated state resulting from processing such message in γ′, and send the

Fig. 2: Path partition resulting from an update by Charlie (3rd leaf node), with nodes tainted by him shown in black.
To process it the grey node must be updated before the green path and the blue path before Charlie’s (in red).
appropriate information to the delivery server, which will then respond with a conﬁrm or reject, prompting
IDi to move to state γ′ (i.e. set γ←γ′) or to delete γ′ respectively. If the (honest) delivery server conﬁrms
an operation, it will also deliver it to all the group members, who will process it and update their states
accordingly. Messages should contain the identity of the sender, the operation type, encryptions of the new
seeds, any new public keys, and a hash of the transcript so far, ensuring consistency. A more detailed
description, as well as pseudo-code for the distinct operations is presented in A.3.
Initialize. To create a new group with parties M ={ID1,..., IDn}, a user ID1 generates a new tree T ,
where the leaves have associated the init keys corresponding to the group members. The group creator
then samples new key pairs for all the other nodes in T (optimizing with hierarchical derivation) and crafts
welcome messages for each party. These welcome messages should include an encryption of the seed that
allows the computation of the keys of the appropriate path, together with M and the public part of T .
Add. To add a new member IDj to the group, IDi identiﬁes a free spot for them, hashes her secret key
together with some freshly sampled randomness to obtain a seed ∆11, and derives seeds for the nodes along
the path to the root. She then encrypts the new seeds to all the nodes in the co-path (one ciphertext per node
suﬃces given the hierarchical derivation) and sends them over together with the identity IDj of the added
party. IDi will also craft a welcome message for the added party containing an encryption of the appropriate
seed,M,H and the public part of T .
Update. To perform an Update, a user computes a path partition for the set nodes not on her path that
need to be refreshed (nodes tainted or with a tainted ancestor), samples a seed per such path, plus a seed
for their path, and derives the new key-pairs for each node, as described above. She then encrypts the secret
keys under the appropriate public keys in the copaths and sends this information to the server.
Remove. To remove IDj, user IDi performs an Update as if it was IDj, refreshing all nodes in IDj’s path
to the root, as well as all her tainted nodes (which will become tainted by IDi after the removal). Note that
a user cannot remove itself. Instead, we imagine a user could request for someone to remove her and delete
her state.
Process. When a user receives a protocol message T, it identiﬁes which kind of message it is and performs
the appropriate update of their state, by updating the list of participants if necessary, overwriting any keys,
and updating the tainted ID’s. If it is a conﬁrm or a reject, i.e. it was an operation issued by himself, he
updates the current state γ to γ′ or simply deletes γ′, respectively
2.4 Comparison with Blanking
In terms of security there is little diﬀerence between what is achieved using tainting and using blanking.
Updates have the same function: they refresh all known secrets, allowing for FS and PCS through essentially
11 This way the new keys will be secure against an adversary that does not have either knowledge of IDi’s secret key
or control/knowledge of the randomness used.

the same mechanism in both approaches. However, as mentioned before, tainting seems to be a more natural
approach: it maintains the desired tree structure, and its bookkeeping method gives us a more complete
intuition of the security of the tree. It also corresponds to a more ﬂexible framework: since blanking simply
forbids parties to know secrets outside of their path, it leaves little ﬂexibility for how to handle the init
phase.
With regards to eﬃciency, the picture is more complicated. TTKEM and TreeKEM 12 are incomparable
in the sense that there exist sequences of operations where either one or the other is more eﬃcient. Thus,
which one is to be preferred depends on the distribution of operation sequences. We observe that there are
two major diﬀerences in how blank and tainted nodes aﬀect eﬃciency. The ﬁrst one is in the set of aﬀected
users: a blank node degrades the eﬃciency of any user whose copath contains the blank. Conversely, a tainted
node aﬀects only one user; that who tainted it, but on the down side, it does so no matter where in the tree
this tainted node is. The second diﬀerence is the healing time: to “unblank” a node v it suﬃces that some
user assigned to a leaf in the tree rooted at v refreshes it (thereby overwriting the blank with a fresh key).
However, to “untaint” v, simply overwriting it this way is necessary but not suﬃcient. In addition, it must
also hold that no other node in the tree rooted at v is tainted.
Thus, intuitively, in settings where the tendency is for Adds and Remove operations (i.e. those that
produce blanks or taintings) to be performed by a small subset of group members it is more eﬃcient to use
the tainting approach. Indeed, only Update operations done by that subset of users will have a higher cost.
As mentioned in the introduction, such a setting can arise quite naturally in practice – e.g. when group
membership is managed by a small number of administrators.
To test this, we ran simulations comparing the number of ciphertexts (cost) users need to compute on
average as a consequence of performing Updates, Adds and Removes. Ideally, we would like to sample a
sequence of group operations, execute them in both protocols and compare the total cost. However, this
seems infeasible: in TreeKEM operations are collected into Commits, whereas in TTKEM these are applied
one by one, separately. Hence, we compared TTKEM (referred to as tainted in the graphs) against two
diﬀerent simpliﬁed versions of TreeKEM, between which real TreeKEM lies eﬃciency-wise. The ﬁrst version
(TKEM ), more eﬃcient than actual TreeKEM, ignores Commits and just executes operations one by one,
without the Update that would follow every Commit. The second version ( TKEM commit), less eﬃcient
than the real TreeKEM, enforces that every operation is committed separately, essentially performing an
extra Update operation after every Add or Remove.
We simulated groups of sizes between 2 3 and 2 15 members. Trees of size 2 i were initialized with 2 i−1
members and sequences of 10∗2i Update/Remove/Add operations were sampled according to a 8 : 1 : 1 ratio.
One would expect for many more Updates than Add/Removes to take place; but also, the more common
updates are, the closer that eﬃciency is going to be to that of na¨ ıve TreeKEM for both TreeKEM and
TTKEM. Thus, this seems a reasonable ratio that also highlights the diﬀerences between the protocols - it
is also the ratio used by R. Barnes in the simulation of TreeKEM with blanking posted in the IETF MLS
mailing list 13. We test two diﬀerent scenarios. In the ﬁrst one we limit the ability of adding and removing
parties to a small subset of users, the administrators. In the second, we make no assumption on who performs
Adds and Removes and sample the authors of these uniformly at random.
To simulate the administrator setting (ﬁgures 3, 4 and 5), we set a small (1 per group in groups of
size less tan 128 and 1 per every 64 users in bigger groups) random set of users to be administrators.
Adds and Removes are then performed by one of those administrators sampled uniformly at random. The
removed users, as well as the authors of the updates were also sampled uniformly at random. Figures 3 and
4 illustrate that TTKEM allows for an interesting trade-oﬀ, where non-administrators enjoy more eﬃcient
Updates at the expense of potentially more work for administrators. This would be favourable in settings
where administrators have more bandwidth or computational power. When considering the average cost
12 We compare TTKEM with the most recent version TreeKEMv9.
13 [MLS] Cost of the partial-tree approach. Richard Barnes {rlb@ipv.sx} 01 October 2018 https://mailarchive.
ietf.org/arch/msg/mls/hhl0q-OgnGUJS1djdmH1JBMqOSY/

Fig. 3: Cost for non-administrators
 Fig. 4: Cost for administrators
 Fig. 5: Average cost per user
Fig. 6: Updaters follow uniform dist.
 Fig. 7: Updaters follow Zipf dist.
incurred by group member, admins or non-admins (ﬁgure 5), all three protocol perform similarly for smaller
groups, with TTKEM behaving better asymptotically.
In the second scenario (ﬁgures 6 and 7), where Adds and Removes are performed by users sampled
uniformly, the results are similar: all protocols perform comparably on smaller groups, with TTKEM behaving
more eﬃciently on larger groups. Here, we distinguish two further situations depending on the distribution
on Update authors (or updaters for short). Figure 6 shows the results of sampling updaters uniformly at
random. This would reﬂect scenarios where Updates are executed periodically, as in e.g. devices that are
always online and where a higher level policy stipulates to update daily. In contrast, ﬁgure 7 shows the
results of sampling updaters following a Zipf distribution. The Zipf distribution is used widely to model
human activity in interactive settings. Recently, a study on messages sent on internet communities shows
that the growth of messages sent per individual over time follows Gibrat’s law [22]. This in turn implies that
the distribution of the number of messages sent per individual at a point in time converges asymptotically
to a Zipf distribution [23]. Thus, the latter scenario models a setting where Updates are correlated with the
level of activity of the users, e.g. when the devices used are not always online.
Overall, while we cannot say TTKEM will be more eﬃcient than TreeKEM in every setting, it is clear
that it constitutes a promising CGKA candidate, which can bring eﬃciency improvements over TreeKEM
in diﬀerent realistic scenarios. Moreover, we would also like to point out that to improve the eﬃciency of
these protocols, diﬀerent policies can be implemented, such as strategically placing users on the tree: e.g.
distributing administrators or frequent updaters closer to the right side of the tree, where more new users
will be added.
Finally, since our simulations above are initialized with a fully healed tree (no blanks or taints), we discuss
the diﬀerent costs of the initialization phase, i.e. the process of creating a group and clearing all blanks or
taints, in both protocols. We ﬁnd that TTKEM can achieve such a healed tree considerably faster than
TreeKEM.
Eﬃciency of Initialisation. For many group chat sessions, the initialisation phase will be the most
ineﬃcient phase of the session’s life-cycle, as ineﬃciencies arise by adding and removing members to a

session. A group will certainly see at least as many Adds as Removes, and likely most of those Adds will
happen at the beginning of the group’s life (either batched within init or just after it). Thus, the process
by which a group goes from a initial state to a fully “healed” tree (that without blanks or taints) is of great
importance. We will henceforth consider the scenario where a group is initialised with a large number of
members and will study the cost (in particular, the number of ciphertexts) of transitioning to a fully healed
ratchet tree in the least number of group operations (without further Adds, Removes or redundant Updates).
While this is obviously quite a restrictive assumption, we believe it would be quite similar to the initial
behaviour of most groups. In fact, a similar sequence of group operations could be somehow encouraged
by a higher level protocol: a main aim for a group should be to achieve the ratcheting tree structure that
gives log size packages for each operation as soon as possible. 14 We will assume that groups with blanking
are initialised as fully blanked trees, except for the creator’s path (To the best of our knowledge, mitigating
double-joins via blanking does not allow for any other more eﬃcient initialisation procedure than this). We
also recall that groups with tainting are initialised with a tree fully tainted by the initiator Alice.
In order to fully unblank (resp. untaint) the tree, we need every second member to update. In the
tainted case, the order is irrelevant, as any update by a member other than the group creator involves log n
ciphertexts, meaning we can achieve a fully untainted tree with a total communication cost of (⌊n/2⌋−1) logn.
This is not the case with blanking, where the order matters. The following lemma shows that the cost for
blanking is at least about twice as much as with tainting. We defer its proof to B.
Lemma 1. In TreeKEM, the cost of transitioning from a completely blank (except for the creator’s path)
tree to one without blanks is at least n (logn− 2) + 2.
3 Security
We will prove security for TTKEM against fully adaptive, partially active adversaries, even when group
members are in inconsistent states. In section 3.1 we present the security game we consider and in section
3.2 we present a simple predicate which allows to determine for which group keys we can guarantee security.
The latter predicate incorporates the intuition that Updates allow a party to heal her state. It should be
noted that we consider initialization keys as representing identities, as otherwise we would neglect some
other cases which we would intuitively also consider secure, such as removing a corrupted party and adding
them again once uncorrupted (this is secure per our predicate as they would be treated as a new identity,
generated at the time the init key was).
Throughout our proofs, we only consider a single challenge per game for simplicity; a standard hybrid
argument allows us to extend security to multiple challenges, with a loss linear in the number of challenges.
In order to simulate extra challenges, an extra oracle that reveals group keys would be needed, but this
would have no eﬀect on the security proof - in particular GSD-like proofs already allow for the corruption
of individual keys.
3.1 Security Model
Deﬁnition 2 (Asynchronous CGKA Security). The security for CGKA is modelled using a game be-
tween a challenger C and an adversary A. At the beginning of the game, the adversary queriescreate-group(G)
and the challenger initialises the group G with identities (ID1,..., ID𝓁). The adversary A can then make a
sequence of queries, enumerated below, in any arbitrary order. On a high level, add-user and remove-user
allow the adversary to control the structure of the group, whereas the queries conﬁrm and process allow it
to control the scheduling of the messages. The query update simulates the refreshing of a local state. Finally,
start-corrupt and end-corrupt enable the adversary to corrupt the users for a time period. The entire
state (old and pending) and random coins of a corrupted user are leaked to the adversary during this period.
14 In particular, the less bandwidth used per Update the more Updates can be performed and so the stronger the
expected security properties for the session will be.

1. add-user(ID, ID′): a user ID requests to add another user ID′ to the group.
2. remove-user(ID, ID′): a user ID requests to remove another user ID′ from the group.
3. update(ID): the user ID requests to refresh its current local state γ.
4. conﬁrm(q,β ): theq-th query in the game, which must be an action a∈{ add-user, remove-user, update}
by some user ID, is either conﬁrmed (if β = 1) or rejected (if β = 0). In case the action is conﬁrmed, C
updates ID’s state and deletes the previous state; otherwise ID keeps its previous state).
5. process(q, ID′): if the q-th query is as above, this action forwards the ( W or T ) message to party ID′
which immediately processes it.
6. start-corrupt(ID): from now on the entire internal state and randomness of ID is leaked to the adversary.
7. end-corrupt(ID): ends the leakage of user ID’s internal state and randomness to the adversary.
8. challenge(q∗): A picks a query q∗ corresponding to an action a∗∈{ add-user, remove-user, update}
or the initialization (if q∗ = 0). Let k0 denote the group key that is sampled during this operation and k1
be a fresh random key. The challenger tosses a coin b and – if the safe predicate below is satisﬁed – the
key kb is given to the adversary (if the predicate is not satisﬁed the adversary gets nothing).
At the end of the game, the adversary outputs a bit b′ and wins if b′ =b. We call a CGKA scheme (Q,ϵ,t )-
CGKA-secure if for any adversary A making at mostQ queries of the form add-user(·,·), remove-user(·,·),
or update(·) and running in time t it holds
AdvCGKA(A) :=|Pr[1← A|b = 0]− Pr[1← A|b = 1]|<ϵ.
3.2 The Safe Predicate
We deﬁne the safe predicate to rule out trivial winning strategies and at the same time restrict the adversary
as little as possible. For example, if the adversary challenges the ﬁrst (create-group) query and then corrupts
a user in the group, he can trivially distinguish the real group key from random. Thus, intuitively, we call a
query q∗ safe if the group key generated in response to query q∗ is not computable from any compromised
state. Since each group key is encrypted to at most one init key for each party, this means that the users
which are group members 15 at time q∗ must not be compromised as long as these init keys are part of their
state. However, deﬁning a reasonable safe predicate in terms of allowed sequences of actions is very subtle.
To gain some intuition, consider the case where query q∗ is an update for a party ID∗. Then, clearly, ID∗
must not be compromised right after it generated the update. On the other hand, since the update function
was introduced to heal a user’s state and allow for PCS, any corruption of ID∗ before q∗ should not harm
security. Similarly, any corruption of ID∗ after a further processed update operation for ID∗ should not help
the adversary either (compare FS). Finally, also in the case where the update generated at timeq∗ is rejected
to ID∗ and ID∗ processes this message of the form conﬁrm(q∗, 0) by returning to its previous state, any
corruption of ID∗ after processing the reject message should not aﬀect security of the challenge group key.
All these cases should be considered safe.
Additionally, we have to take care of other users which are part of the group when the challenge key is
generated: For a challenge to be safe, we must make sure that the challenge group key is not encrypted to
any compromised key. At the same time, one has to be aware of the fact that in the asynchronous setting
the view of diﬀerent users might diﬀer substantially. As mentioned above, we consider inconsistency of user’s
states rather a matter of functionality than security, and aim to deﬁne the safe predicate as unrestrictive
as possible, to also guarantee security for inconsistent group states. For example, consider the following
scenario: user ID generates an update during an uncompromised time period and processes a reject for this
update still in the uncompromised time period, but this update is conﬁrmed to and processed by user ID∗
before he does his challenge update q∗; this results in a safe challenge, since the challenge group key is only
encrypted to the new init key, which is not part of ID’s state at any compromised time point. However, one
15 To be precise, since parties might be in inconsistent states, group membership is not unique but rather depends
on the users’ views on the group state. We will discuss this below.

has to be careful here, since in a similar scenario where ID does not process the reject for its own update,
the challenge group key would clearly not be safe anymore.
For the following deﬁnitions we consider discrete time steps measured in terms of the number of queries
that have been issued by the adversary so far.
We ﬁrst identify for each user a critical window in the view of a speciﬁc user ID∗. The idea is to deﬁne
exactly the time frame in which a user may leak a group key if ID∗ generates it at a speciﬁc point in time
and distributes it to the group. Clearly, the users may not be corrupted in this time frame if this happens
to be the challenge group key.
Deﬁnition 3 (Critical window, safe user). Let ID and ID∗ be two (not necessarily diﬀerent) users and
q∗∈ [Q] be some query. Let q−≤ q∗ be the query that set ID’s current key in the view of ID∗ at time q∗,
i.e. the query q−≤ q∗ that corresponds to the last update message a−
ID := update(ID) processed by ID∗ at
some point [q−,q∗] (see Figure 8). If ID∗ does not process such a query then we set q− = 1, the ﬁrst query.
Analogously, let q+≥ q− be the ﬁrst query that invalidates ID’s current key, i.e. ID processes one of the
following two conﬁrmations:
1. conﬁrm(a−
ID, 0), the rejection of action a−
ID; or
2. conﬁrm(a+
ID, 1), the conﬁrmation an update a+
ID := update(ID)⁄= a−
ID.
If ID does not process any such query then we set q+ =Q, the last query. We say that the window [q−,q +]
is critical for ID at time q∗ in the view of ID∗. Moreover, if the user ID is not corrupted at any time point
in the critical window, we say that ID is safe at time q∗ in the view of ID∗.
1 q−
ID ID∗
q∗
q+
ID
Q
a−
ID a−
ID conﬁrm(a−
ID, 0)
1 q−
ID ID∗
q∗
ID
q+
ID
Q
a−
ID a−
ID a+
ID conﬁrm(a+
ID, 1)
Fig. 8: A schematic diagram showing the critical window for a user ID in the view of another user ID∗ with respect
to query q∗. An arrow from a user to the timeline is interpreted as a request by the user, whereas an arrow in the
opposite direction is interpreted as the user processing the message. The ﬁgure at top (resp., bottom) corresponds to
the ﬁrst (resp., second) case in Deﬁnition 3.
We are now ready to deﬁne when a group key should be considered safe. The group key is considered to
be safe if all the users that ID∗ considers to be in the group are individually safe, i.e., not corrupted in its
critical window, in the view of ID∗. We point out that there is a exception when the action that generated
the group key sk∗ is a self-update by ID∗ where, to allow healing, instead of the normal critical window we
use the window [q∗,q +] as critical.
Deﬁnition 4 (Safe predicate). Let sk∗ be a group key generated in an action
a∗∈{ add-user(ID∗,·), remove-user(ID∗,·), update(ID∗), create-group(ID∗,·)}
at time point q∗ ∈ [Q] and let G∗ be the set of users which would end up in the group if query q∗ was
processed, as viewed by the generating user ID∗. Then the key sk∗ is considered safe if for all users ID∈G∗
(including ID∗) we have that ID is safe at time q∗ in the view of ID∗ (as per Deﬁnition 3) with the following
exceptional case: if ID = ID∗ and a∗ = update(ID∗) then we require ID∗ to be safe the window [q∗,q +].

3.3 The Challenge Graph
In the last section, we deﬁned what it means for a group key to be safe via a safe predicate. In this section,
we try to interpret the safe predicate for the TTKEM protocol. That is, our goal is to show that if the safe
predicate is satisﬁed for a group key ∆∗ generated while playing the CGKA game on TTKEM, then none
of the seeds or secret keys used to derive this group key are leaked to the adversary (Lemma 2) — this fact
will be crucial in the next section ( §3.5) where we argue the security of TTKEM using the framework of
Jafargholi et al. [12]. To this end, we view the CGKA game for TTKEM as a game on a graph and then
deﬁne the challenge graph for challenge group key ∆∗ as a sub-graph of the whole CGKA graph.
The CGKA graph. A node i in the CGKA graph for TTKEM is associated with seeds ∆i and si :=
H2(∆i) and a key-pair ( pki,ski) := Gen(si) (as deﬁned in §2). The edges of the graph, on the other hand,
are induced by dependencies via the hash function H1 or (public-key) encryptions. To be more precise, an
edge (i,j ) might correspond to either:
1. a ciphertext of the form Encpki(∆j); or
2. an application of H1 of the form ∆j =H1(∆i) used in hierarchical derivation.
Naturally, the structure of the CGKA graph depends on the update, add-user or remove-user queries
made by the adversary, and is therefore generated adaptively.
The challenge graph. The challenge graph for ∆∗, intuitively, is the sub-graph of the CGKA graph
induced on the nodes from which ∆∗ is trivially derivable. Therefore, according to the deﬁnition of the
CGKA graph, this consists of nodes from which ∆∗ is reachable and the corresponding edges (used to reach
∆∗). For instance, in the case where the adversary maintains all users in a consistent state and there are no
tainted nodes, the challenge graph would simply be the binary tree rooted at ∆∗ with leaves corresponding
to init keys of users in the group at that point. When the group view is inconsistent among the users these
leaves would correspond to the init keys of users in the view of ID∗. Moreover, if there are tainted nodes, the
tree could also have (non-init key) leaves corresponding to these tainted nodes. Below we state and prove
the key lemma which connects the safe predicate to the challenge graph of TTKEM.
Lemma 2. For any safe challenge group key in TTKEM it holds that none of the seeds and secret keys in
the challenge graph is leaked to the adversary via corruption.
Proof. We ﬁrst observe that in the CGKA game, when a user is corrupted all secret keys and seeds in its
memory are also corrupt and therefore leaked to the adversary. This could consist of the secret keys and
seeds on the current path from the user’s leaf to the root (in the tree as currently viewed by the user itself),
secret keys on a pending path (if one exists) and, by deﬁnition, all tainted nodes (as viewed by any user).
Let’s consider the challenge graph of any group key ∆∗ generated by a user ID∗ during an action
a∗∈{ add-user, remove-user, update, create-group}
at a time point q∗. Intuitively, the safe predicate for TTKEM ensures that none of the keys in this graph is
leaked to the adversary by requiring that every node has been refreshed (via an update) before the generation
of ∆∗. Therefore, information on ∆∗ (via ciphertexts or hash dependencies) are sent only to refreshed and
therefore uncorrupt nodes. Since the rest of the simulation in the CGKA game is independent of ∆∗, an
adversary learns nothing about it. We formalise this intuition below via a proof by contradiction: assuming
∆∗ is leaked to the adversary, we show that the safe predicate for ∆∗ is somehow violated in the view of ID∗
at q∗.
Let’s ﬁrst consider a restricted adversary that does not issue reject queries (i.e, conﬁrm(·, 0)). The fact
that ∆∗ is leaked to the adversary means that some secret key denoted sk in its challenge graph was leaked
during the CGKA game (the argument when a seed s or ∆ is leaked is similar). This in turn means that
some user was corrupted while having sk in its memory. There are two possibilities: either sk corresponds to
a leaf node and is a user key for a user ID in the group (possibly same as ID∗) (Case A) or sk corresponds
to an internal node (Case B). Let’s argue these cases separately.

Case A. Let’s suppose ﬁrst that ID⁄= ID∗. As sk is leaked to the adversary it follows that ID was corrupted
after ID generated the update (a−
ID) and before ID processed the update a+
ID⁄= a−
ID (see Figure 9, top). The
reason being that this is the only window in which this key is present in the memory of ID (and this key
is not present in the memory of any other user). However, this violates the safe predicate (restricted to
the case where there are no rejects) as ID is not a safe user. In the complementary case where ID = ID∗,
the argument is similar except that the window in which sk is present in the memory is diﬀerent (as in
the exceptional case in Deﬁnition 4).
Case B. When sk is part of an internal node, we apply the argument in Case A to every user that is an
ancestor of (the node) sk in the challenge graph: it would then follow that at least one of these users
violates the safe predicate. However, if not every leaf in the set of ancestors of (the node) sk in the
challenge graph correspond to a particular user, which can only happen when it corresponds to a tainted
node, we apply this argument to the owner of the tainted node. Note that, by construction, the owner
must be a part of the group as viewed by ID∗ (even if the states are inconsistent) as all tainted nodes
corresponding to a removed user are also removed from the state.
1 q−
ID ID∗
q∗
ID
q+
ID
Q
a−
ID a−
ID a+
ID conﬁrm(a+
ID, 1)
1 q−
ID ID∗
q∗
q+
ID
Q
a−
ID a−
ID conﬁrm(a−
ID, 0)
Fig. 9: Violation of the safe predicate. The critical window for ID are shaded in green, and the windows where ID
was corrupt is shaded in red. In all the cases, there is an intersection between the critical and corrupt window and
therefore the safe predicate is violated.
Now, in the case where the adversary does reject queries, the argument is similar except that we have
to take into account the case where a user key sk is invalidated by such rejects. To be precise, in the case
where a−
ID is rejected to ID it could be the case that the safe predicate is violated when a corruption occurs
before a−
ID is rejected to ID (see Figure 9, bottom). Finally, note that in the above argument it was implicitly
assumed that all users corresponding to the leaf nodes of ∆∗ were part of the group G∗ viewed by ID∗ at
time q∗ if the query q∗ was processed. This is crucial since the safe predicate is applied only to the users in
G∗. ⊓ ⊔
3.4 Security Proof for TTKEM in the Standard Model
To prove security of TTKEM in the standard model, we will use the framework of Jafargholi et al. [12],
with which we will assume familiarity throughout this section and, particularly, in Theorem 2. Recall that
in the CGKA security game, the aim of the adversary is to distinguish a safe challenge group key ∆∗ from a
uniformly random and independent seed. We ﬁrst consider the selective CGKA game, where the adversary
has to do all its queries at once. We call the two possible executions of the game the real and random CGKA
game and aim to proof indistiguishability of these two games via a sequence of indistinguishable hybrid
games. Similar to several other applications of the framework [12], we will deﬁne these hybrid games via the
so-called reversible black pebbling game, introduced by Bennett [24], where, given a directed acyclic graph
with unique sink (here, the challenge graph), in each step one can put or remove one pebble on a node
following certain rules, and the goal is to reach the pebbling conﬁguration where there is only one pebble
on the sink of the graph. Each pebbling conﬁgurationP𝓁 then uniquely deﬁnes a hybrid game H𝓁: a node v

in the tree being pebbled means that in this hybrid game whenever ∆v would be used to answer a query, a
freshly chosen random seed (independent of ∆v) is used instead in the simulation. This applies to all cases
where ∆v would be used as input for H1 or H2, or as the challenge output (if i is the challenge node). All
remaining nodes and edges are simulated as in the real CGKA game. Thus, the real game Hreal is represented
as the empty pebbling conﬁguration P0 where there is no pebble at all, while the random game Hrandom
corresponds to the ﬁnal conﬁguration PL where only the sink node is pebbled (where L denotes the length
of the pebbling sequence).
Deﬁnition 5 (Reversible black pebbling). A reversible pebbling of a directed acyclic graph G = (V,E )
with unique sink sink is a sequence P = (P0,..., PL) withP𝓁 ⊂ V (𝓁∈ [0,L ]), such that P0 =∅ and
PL ={sink}, and for all 𝓁∈ [L] there is a unique v∈V such that: 1) P𝓁 =P𝓁−1∪{v} orP𝓁 =P𝓁−1\{v},
2) for all u∈ parents(v): u∈P 𝓁−1.
By Lemma 2, we know that none of the seeds or secret keys in the challenge graph is leaked to the
adversary throughout the entire game. This will allow us to prove indistinguishability of subsequent hybrid
games from IND-CPA security of the underlying encryption scheme and pseudorandomness of the hash
functions H1,H 2. Recall, the functions H1,H 2 were deﬁned by a hash function H which takes some ∆i as
secret key and publicly known ﬁxed strings x1,x 2 as inputs. To guarantee security, H is assumed to be
a pseudorandom function, where we will use the following non-standard but equivalent (to the standard)
deﬁnition of pseudorandomness:
Deﬁnition 6 (Pseudorandom function, alternative deﬁnition). Let H :{0, 1}n×{ 0, 1}n→{ 0, 1}n
be a keyed function. We deﬁne the following game PRF(n): First, a key k←{ 0, 1}n is chosen uniformly
at random and the adversary is given access to an oracle H(k,·). When the adversary outputs a string
x←{ 0, 1}n, a uniformly random bit b←{ 0, 1} is chosen and the adversary receives either H(k,x ) in the
case b = 0, or y∈{ 0, 1}n uniformly at random if b = 1. Finally, the adversary outputs a bit b′. If x was
never queried to the oracle H(k,·) and b′ = b, then the output of the game is 1, otherwise 0. We call H
(ϵ,t )-pseudorandom if for all adversaries A running in time t we have
AdvPRF(A) :=|Pr[1← PRF(n)|b = 0]− Pr[1← PRF(n)|b = 1]|<ϵ.
It is an easy exercise to prove that the above deﬁnition is equivalent to the standard textbook deﬁnition
of pseudorandom functions (i.e., only a polynomial loss in security is involved by the respective reductions).
Lemma 3. Let P = (P0,..., PL) be a valid pebbling sequence on the challenge graph. If H is an (ϵ,t )-secure
pseudorandom function and Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) is an (ϵ,t )-IND-CPA secure encryption scheme, then any
two subsequent hybrid games H𝓁, H𝓁+1 are (5·ϵ,t )-indistinguishable16.
Proof. Let H𝓁, H𝓁+1 be two subsequent hybrid games. We assume thatP𝓁+1 diﬀers fromP𝓁 by one additional
pebble on a node v∗ with ingoing encryption edge (u,v∗) and ingoing H1 edge (u′,v∗). The case whereP𝓁+1
is obtained from P𝓁 by removing one pebble can be proven in a similar way. We proof indistinguishability
by a sequence of hybrids H𝓁 := H𝓁,0, H𝓁,1,..., H𝓁,5 := H𝓁+1, where the intermediate hybrids are deﬁned as
follows:
– H𝓁,1 is deﬁned similarly to H𝓁,0 except that the key pair (pku, sku) is generated from a uniformly random
seed instead of the output su of H2.
– H𝓁,2 is deﬁned similarly to H𝓁,1 except that the encryption Encpku(∆v∗) is replaced by an encryption of
a uniformly random seed.
16 Technically, the t in Lemma 3 changes slightly due to the reduction and thus should not actually be the same
t. For simplicity, in all our security reductions we will ignore such miniscule running time overheads incurred by
simulating challengers of the security games or sampling (a small number of) random bits.

– H𝓁,3 is deﬁned similarly to H𝓁,2 except that instead of ∆v∗ a uniformly random seed is used as input to
H1, or H2, or the challenge output (if v∗ is the challenge node) whenever needed to answer any queries
of the adversary.
– H𝓁,4 is deﬁned similarly to H𝓁,3 except that the encryption of a uniformly random seed is replaced by
Encpku(∆v∗).
– H𝓁,5 is deﬁned similarly to H𝓁,3 except that the key pair (pku, sku) is generated from su =H2(∆u) again,
instead of using a uniformly random seed. Note that indeed H𝓁,5 = H𝓁+1 holds.
Indistinguishability of H𝓁,0 and H𝓁,1 follows from the pseudorandomness of the hash function H: Since
by the pebbling rules it must hold that node u is pebbled, in game H𝓁,0 the seed su for key generation is
computed by applying H2 to a uniformly random seed instead of ∆u. Thus, by pseudorandomness of H the
seed su is indistinguishable from a uniformly random seed, as used in H𝓁,1. Furthermore, all the remaining
seeds and edges needed during simulation of the hybrid games can be perfectly simulated, which implies
that any advantage ϵ of an adversary in distinguishing H𝓁,0 from H𝓁,1 leads to the same advantage ϵ in
distinguishing H from a random function.
Indistinguishability of H𝓁,1 and H𝓁,2 follows from the IND-CPA security of the encryption scheme: Since in
game H𝓁,1 the key pair (pku, sku) is generated just as inGen, a reduction can embed an IND-CPA challenge for
messages ∆v∗ and a uniformly random seed at the encryption edge ( u,v∗) and otherwise perfectly simulate
all answers to queries of the adversary. Thus, any adversary distinguishing H𝓁,1 from H𝓁,2 with advantage ϵ
can be used to break IND-CPA security of the encryption scheme with the same advantage.
Indistinguishability of H𝓁,2 and H𝓁,3 follows from the pseudorandomness of the hash function H: This is
similar to the case of H𝓁,0 and H𝓁,1, and the indistinguishability of∆v∗ again cruicially relies on the fact that
node u′ is pebbled. However, the alternative deﬁnition of pseudorandomness must be used for the reduction,
since the seed su′ used to generate the key pair ( pku′, sku′) is the output of H with the same random seed
as used to compute ∆v∗. Again, the remaining simulation can be done perfectly and the reduction preserves
the advantage.
Similar to the case of H𝓁,1 and H𝓁,2, indistinguishability of H𝓁,3 and H𝓁,4 again follows from the IND-CPA
security of the encryption scheme.
Finally, indistinguishability of H𝓁,4 and H𝓁,5 again follows from pseudorandomness of the hash function
H, similar to the case of H𝓁,0 and H𝓁,1.
Note that in all the sketched reductions, the running time remains essentially the same. Thus, the claim
follows. ⊓ ⊔
Choosing a trivial pebbling sequence of the challenge graph, this already implies selective CGKA security
of TTKEM. Unfortunately, in the adaptive setting, the challenge graph is not known to the reduction until
the adversary does its challenge query, but by this time it will be too late for the reduction to embed a
challenge, since seeds and public keys in the challenge graph might have been used already before when
answering previous queries by the adversary. Thus, to simulate a hybrid game H𝓁, the reduction needs to
guess (some of) the adaptive choices the adversary will do. Na¨ ıvely, this would result in an exponential
security loss. However, the framework of Jafargholi et al. [12] allows to do signiﬁcantly better:
Theorem 1 (Framework for proving adaptive security, informal [12]). Let Greal, Grandom be two
adaptive games, and Hreal, Hrandom be their respective selective versions, where the adversary has to do all its
choices right in the beginning of the game. Furthermore, let Hreal := H0, H1,..., HL := Hrandom be a sequence
of hybrid games such that each pair of subsequent games can be simulated and proven (ϵ,t )-indistinguishable
by only guessing M bits of information on the adversary’s choices . Then Greal and Grandom are (ϵ·L· 2M,t )-
indistinguishable.
The problem of proving CGKA security of TTKEM now reduces to ﬁnding a sequence of indistinguishable
hybrids such that each hybrid can be simulated by only a small amount of random guessing. Deﬁning hybrid
games via pebbling conﬁgurations as above and using the space-optimal pebbling sequence for binary trees,

described e.g. in [25, Algorithm 1], which usesL =n2 steps and only 2 log(n)+1 pebbles 17, implies a security
reduction for TTKEM with only a quasipolynomial loss in security.
Theorem 2. If H is an (ϵ,t )-pseudorandom function and Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) is an (ϵ,t )-IND-CPA secure
encryption scheme, then TTKEM is (5·n2·Qlog(n)+2·ϵ,t )-GCKA secure.
Proof. Note that the challenge graph is a complete binary tree of depth log( n) in the worst case and let
P = (P0,..., PL) be the recursive pebbling strategy for binary trees from [25], which uses L =n2 steps and
at most 2 log(n) + 1 pebbles. We will prove that each pebbling conﬁguration P𝓁 can be represented using
M = (log(n) + 2)· logQ bits. The claim then follows by Lemma 3 and Theorem 1.
We need the following property of the strategy P: For all 𝓁∈ [0,L ], there exists a leaf in the tree such
that all pebbled nodes lie either on the path from that leaf to the sink or on the copath. Furthermore, the
subgraph on this set of potentially pebbled nodes contains 2 log( n) + 1 nodes which are connected by at
most log(n) + 1 encryption and H1 edges, respectively. Throughout the game, the reduction always knows
in which position in the binary tree a node ends up, but it does not know which of the up to Q versions of
the node will end up in the challenge tree. However, nodes connected by an H1 edge are generated at the
same time, so the reduction only needs to guess for at most log( n) + 2 nodes which of the up to Q versions
of that node will be in the challenge graph. This proves the claim. ⊓ ⊔
Since the above proof mainly relies on the depth of the challenge tree, it can easily be adapted to prove
CGKA security of TreeKEM, the main diﬀerence being the diﬀerent challenge graph structure induced by
blanking.
3.5 Security Proof for TTKEM in the ROM
The security of TTKEM is closely related to the notion of generalized selective decryption (GSD), which we
adapt to the public key setting for our purposes:
Deﬁnition 7 (Generalized selective decryption (GSD), adapted from [13]). Let (Gen, Enc, Dec) be
a public key encryption scheme with secret key space K and message spaceM such thatK⊆M . The GSD
game (for public key encryption schemes) is a two-party game between a challenger C and an adversary A.
On input an integer N, for each v∈ [N] the challenger C picks a key pair (pkv, skv)← Gen(r) (wherer is a
random seed) and initializes the key graphG = (V,E) := ([N],∅) and the set of corrupt users C =∅. A can
adaptively do the following queries:
– (encrypt,u,v ): On input two nodes u and v, C returns an encryption c = Encpku(skv) of skv under pku
along with pku and adds the directed edge (u,v ) toE. Each pair (u,v ) can only be queried at most once.
– (corrupt,v ): On input a node v, C returns skv and adds v toC.
– (challenge,v ), single access: On input a challenge node v, C samples b←{ 0, 1} uniformly at random
and returns skv if b = 0, otherwise it returns a new secret key generated by Gen using a new independent
uniformly random seed. In the context of GSD we denote the challenge graph as the graph induced by all
nodes from which the challenge node v is reachable. We require that none of the nodes in the challenge
graph are inC, thatG is acyclic and that the challenge node v is a sink. Note that A does not receive the
public key of the challenge node, since it is a sink.
Finally, A outputs a bit b′ and it wins the game if b′ = b. We call the encryption scheme (ϵ,t )-adaptive
GSD-secure if for any adversary A running in time t it holds
AdvGSD(A) :=|Pr[1← A|b = 0]− Pr[1← A|b = 1]|<ϵ.
17 Although the original Lemma 3 in [25] states that 3 log(n) pebbles are required to pebble a binary tree, the bound
is loose since it is derived from Lemma 2. It is not diﬃcult to see that a tighter analysis of Algorithm 1 for the
case of binary trees leads to a bound of 2 log n + 1.

We ﬁrst prove a general result for our version of GSD, which could be of independent interest.
Theorem 3. For any public key encryption scheme Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) and hash function H let the en-
cryption scheme Π′ = (Gen′, Enc′, Dec′) be deﬁned as follows: 1) Gen′ simply picks a random seed s as secret
key and runs Gen(H(s)) to obtain the corresponding public key, 2) Enc′ is identical to Enc and 3) Dec′, given
the secret key s, extracts the secret key from Gen(H(s)) and uses Dec to decrypt the ciphertext.
If Π is (˜ϵ,t )-IND-CPA secure and H is modelled as a random oracle, then Π′ is (ϵ,t )-adaptive GSD
secure, where ϵ = 2N 2· ˜ϵ + mN
2𝓁−1 , with N the number of nodes, m the number of oracle queries to H, 𝓁 the
seed length.
Proof. Note that the GSD graph contains nodes u∈ [N] corresponding to seeds su that are hashed using
the RO H to obtain seeds for the encryption scheme Π. We prove GSD security by a sequence of hybrids
interpolating between the real game GSD0 where the challenge query v is answered with the real seed sv
and the random game GSD1 where it is answered with an independent uniformly random seed in S, where
S denotes the seed space.
– Deﬁne G0 := GSD0, the real GSD game.
– Lets′∈S andv be the challenge node. For 1≤i≤ indeg(v) we deﬁne the hybrid game Gi as follows: The
game is similar to Gi−1 except that the ith query of the form ( encrypt,u,v ) is answered by Encpku(s′).
Note, the game Gindeg(v) is distributed exactly the same asGSD1. Thus, in this case, for any GSD-adversary
A with advantage ϵ, the advantages of A in distinguishing hybrid games Gi−1 from Gi sum up to at least
ϵ. Since two subsequent hybrid games diﬀer in exactly one encryption edge, we will use this distinguishing
advantage to solve an IND-CPA challenge. To simulate game Gi, the reduction simply guesses the challenge
node v as well as the source node u of the i th encryption incident on v. We denoote these guesses by v∗
and u∗. This simulation, however, is only possible if A does not query its oracle H on any of the seeds
corresponding to the parents of v∗ = v, since otherwise A can trivially distinguish G0 from Gindeg(v). We
encompass this issue by the following (more general) event.
– EventE:A queried a seed s∗ to the random oracle which corresponds to a node that was not corrupted
and is not reachable by any corrupted node, and no challenge query was issued for it.
Intuitively, eventE is true if A queried the random oracle H on some seed which it doesn’t trivially know
and which is associated with a node that might end up in the challenge graph.
We make a case distinction on the probability γ = γ0+γ1
2 , where γb = Pr[A triggers E| GSDb] is the
probability that A triggers E when playing the GSDb game: If γ <ϵ/2, apply Lemma 6, which results in an
advantage> ϵ
2N 2 against IND-CPA security. Else, apply Corollary 2 to obtain an IND-CPA adversary with
advantage> ϵ
2N 2− m
N 2𝓁 .
In either case we obtain an adversary with advantage > ϵ
2N 2− m
N 2𝓁 against IND-CPA security, which
proves the claim.18
⊓ ⊔
For ease of exposition, we prove a slightly weaker result in the main body of this paper and refer to the
appendix for a more involved optimized proof. The proof of Lemma 4 – simplifying Lemma 6 in the appendix
– relies on the piecewise guessing framework [12]. The framework allows for a more modular reduction and we
believe that the proof of Lemma 4 already gives a good intuition on the ﬁnal reduction presented in Lemma
6. This approach involves an additional loss in the indegree of the key graph. While the indegree is a small
constant for the case of TTKEM, it can be up to linear in n for TreeKEM. Thus, the optimized proof of
Theorem 3 is of particular interest if applied to TreeKEM, similar to Theorem 4. We mention that Panjwani
18 Note, this reduction is non-uniform. One can get a uniform reduction by combining these two reductions and
guessing whether event E will happen.

[13] already gave a very similar proof for (private-key) GSD on graphs of bounded depth and the result we
obtain in Lemma 6 is similar to Panjwani’s result for the special case of graphs of depth 1. This is not a
coincidence, since as long as the adversary does not query a seed in the challenge graph, the random oracle
ensures that the adverdary is eﬀectively playing a GSD game on a depth 1 graph. Since Panjwani’s proof is
very long and technical, we provide a self-contained proof in the appendix, which is precisely adapted to our
setting of public-key GSD in the random oracle model . In the following, by the GSD game we refer to the
public-key GSD game on the encryption scheme Π from Theorem 3.
We ﬁrst consider the case of GSD adversaries which trigger event E only with small probability.
Lemma 4. Let the event E be deﬁned as in the proof of Theorem 3 and A an adversary against GSD such
that
– Pr[A→ 0| GSD0]− Pr[A→ 0| GSD1] =ϵ and
– γ = γ0+γ1
2 ≤ ϵ
2 whereγb = Pr[A triggers E| GSDb].
Then, in the ROM, there exists an IND-CPA adversary A′ against the underlying encryption scheme with
advantage > ϵ
2δN 2 , where δ is any upper bound on the maximium indegree of the key graph queried by A.
Proof. We ﬁrst consider a variant GSD′ of GSD where the game aborts as soon as E happens (we consider
this as A outputting 1, i.e. no advantage can be gained on this event). We have
ϵ = Pr[A→ 0| GSD0]− Pr[A→ 0| GSD1]
= Pr[(A→ 0)∧E| GSD0]− Pr[(A→ 0)∧E| GSD1]
+ Pr[(A→ 0)∧¬E| GSD0]− Pr[(A→ 0)∧¬E| GSD1]
= Pr[A→ 0|E∧ GSD0]·γ0− Pr[A→ 0|E∧ GSD1]·γ1
+ Pr[(A→ 0)∧¬E| GSD0]− Pr[(A→ 0)∧¬E| GSD1]
≤ ϵ
2 + Pr[(A→ 0)∧¬E| GSD0]− Pr[(A→ 0)∧¬E| GSD1]
So clearlyA has advantage>ϵ/ 2 in GSD’. We now show that GSD′
0 and GSD′
1 are indistinguishable. We will
do so by applying the piecewise guessing technique from Theorem 1. To this aim, ﬁrst consider the selective
version of the GSD’ game, where the adversary has to commit to all its queries in the beginning of the game,
i.e., the entire graph structure, the challenge v, as well as the subset of corrupted nodes are known to the
reduction before executing the GSD game. Let Hi denote the selective version (with v∗ =v) of the game Gi
for i∈ [indeg(v∗)].
From an adversary that distinguishes two subsequent games Hi−1 and Hi one can easily construct an
adversaryA′ with the same advantage against the IND-CPA game: A′ chooses two random seeds s,s′ as its
messages and receives a challenge ciphertext c in return. It then simulates the GSD’ game to A and embeds
the challengec in the edge where Hi−1 and Hi diﬀer. Denote this edge by (u,v ). SinceA′ generates almost all
of the remaining information of the hybrid itself, it can respond faithfully to any query of the adversary. The
only tricky queries are 1) a corruption of u and 2) encryption queries of the form (i,u ), since this requires to
respond with (an encryption of) a seed su such that H(su) =ru and applying the key generation algorithm
to ru results in the public key associated to u. Luckily, since u is a parent of the challenge v, u may not be
corrupted nor reachable from a corrupted node, so querying H forsu would trigger E and the game aborts.
It follows that we can assign a random seed to u, which to A is information-theoretically indistinguishable
to using the correct seed. Now clearly A′ has the same advantage as A since if c encrypts s it is simulating
Hi−1, while otherwise A′ is simulating Hi.
In the adaptive setting, A′ can simulate game Gi by only guessing the challenge node (v) and the source
(u) of the ith edge incident on v. Thus, it requires 2 log(N) bits of information on the adversary’s choices.
Then by Theorem 1 it follows that the advantage of A′ is at least ϵ
δ·N 2 .
⊓ ⊔

The following Lemma shows that any GSD adversary triggering event E can be reduced to an adversary
against a partially selective version of GSD where the challenger aborts whenever event E happens.
Lemma 5. Let the event E be deﬁned as in the proof of Theorem 3. We consider a slightly modiﬁed version
of GSD: let GSD′′
b be deﬁned like GSDb with the two diﬀerences that a) the game will abort if E happens
(we will consider this equivalent to the adversary outputting 1) and b) the adversary has to commit to the
challenge node at the beginning of the game, i.e. GSD′′ is partially selective. Then there exists an adversary
A in the GSD′′ game on N + 1 nodes such that for any adversary A− which triggers event E with probability
ϵ in the GSD game on N nodes, we have
Pr[A→ 0| GSD′′
0]− Pr[A→ 0| GSD′′
1]≥ ϵ
N− m
2𝓁.
Proof. In the following we consider eventE with respect toA− playing the normal GSD game. We construct
the adversary A as follows. First, A guesses the node v∗ which will be associated with the seed which turns
E true, i.e., A samples v∗← [N] uniformly at random and issues a challenge query for v∗; let s∗ be the
response it receives. Then it runs A−. If A− queries (encrypt,u,u′) for u⁄= v∗, then A just forwards this
query to the challenger and returns to A− whatever it receives in response. For u =v∗, on the other hand,
A issues a query (encrypt,N + 1,u′). Note that the node N + 1 is never used byA− and the adversary will
associate the key pkN +1 it receives to the node v∗. Unless a seed associated with v∗ is queried to the random
oracle H, this is indistinguishable from the real GSD game and if this event happens then – assuming the
guess v∗ was correct – this means that event E turned true. Since A aims to use the event E to break its
own GSD challenge, it is enough that the game simulated to A− until E happens is indistinguishable from
the real GSD game.
If A− queries (corrupt,u ), A simply forwards this query to the challenger and returns the response it
receives. If A− issues a corruption or encryption query such that v∗ is reachable from a corrupted node, A
aborts and outputs 1.
WhenA− queries (challenge,v ) forv⁄=v∗,A sends (corrupt,v ) to the challenger and receivessv. Then
it samples a bit c←{ 0, 1} uniformly at random, sets s0 := sv, samples s1← S unifomly at random, and
returns sc to A−. Note that v must be a sink node, hence this corruption does not aﬀect the validity of v∗
as a GSD challenge. If A− happens to choose v∗ as its challenge, A aborts and outputs 1.
IfA− makes an oracle query H(s), then A just forwards this query to the challenger if s⁄=s∗, otherwise
A aborts and outputs the bit b = 0. If the seed s∗ is never queried (and the game GSD” does not abort), A
outputs 1.
Let V denote the event that v∗ is associated with the seed which turns E true. Let b∗ be the GSD”
challenge bit. Now we ﬁrst note that
Pr[A→ 0|b∗ = 1]≤ m
2𝓁
because if b∗ = 1, s∗ is information-theoretically hidden from A−. Furthermore,
Pr[A→ 0|b∗ = 0] = Pr[(A→ 0)∧E|b∗ = 0] because A→ 0 implies E
=ϵ· Pr[A→ 0|E∧ (b∗ = 0)] because Pr[ E|b∗ = 0] = Pr[E] =ϵ
=ϵ· Pr[(A→ 0)∧V |E∧ (b∗ = 0)] since ¬V implies A→ 1
=ϵ· Pr[A→ 0|V∧E∧ (b∗ = 0)] Pr[V |E∧ (b∗ = 0)]
≥ ϵ
N
Where the last step follows since v∗ was chosen uniformly at random and the simulation is independent of
this choice until E happens and/or A aborts, and because V∧E∧ (b∗ = 0) implies A→ 0. In summary, we
obtain
Pr[A→ 0|b∗ = 0]− Pr[A→ 0|b∗ = 1]≥ ϵ
N− m
2𝓁.
This proves the claim. ⊓ ⊔

The following Corollary now gives a reduction for GSD adversaries which trigger event E with large
probability. We optimize the result in Corollary 2 in the appendix.
Corollary 1. Let the event E be deﬁned as in the proof of Theorem 3, and A an arbitrary GSD adversary
which triggers E with probability ϵ. Then there exists an IND-CPA adversary A′ with advantage
Pr[A′→ 0|b∗ = 0]− Pr[A′→ 0|b∗ = 1]≥ ϵ
δ(N 2 +N)− m
δ(N + 1)2𝓁.
whereδ is any upper bound on the maximium indegree of the graph queried by A.
Proof. We ﬁrst apply Lemma 5 to construct an adversary against GSD” with advantage ϵ
N− m
2𝓁 . Then we
apply a very similar proof as for Lemma 4 to construct an IND-CPA adversary: This proof is exactly the
same with the only diﬀerence being that GSD” (played on N + 1 nodes) is less adaptive, i.e. A commits to
the challenge node v at the beginning of the game, so when applying Theorem 1 to switch from the selective
to the adaptive version, A′ does not need to guess it. It follows that in order to simulate game Gi, A′ needs
to guess only the source u of the ith encryption edge incident on v, which consists of log N many bits.
Accordingly, by Theorem 1, the IND-CPA adversary has advantage
1
δ(N + 1)
( ϵ
N− m
2𝓁
)
.
We now adapt the above proof to show a polynomial time reduction for TTKEM in the random oracle
model. Intuitively, the CGKA graph corresponds to a GSD graph in the above sense (i.e. for the transformed
Π′, whereH2 plays the role of the RO), with the only diﬀerence that there are additional edges corresponding
to a second RO H1. The following Theorem shows that this diﬀerence does not impact security.
Theorem 4. If the encryption scheme in TTKEM is (˜ϵ,t )-IND-CPA secure and H1, H2 are modelled as
random oracles, then TTKEM is (Q,ϵ,t )-CGKA-secure, whereϵ = ˜ϵ· 8(nQ)2 + negl.
Proof (Sketch). In order to adapt the proof of Theorem 3 to the setting where some seeds may be derived
from others by the random oracle H1, we ﬁrst slightly change the event E to also include queries to H1, i.e.
the eventE is now that A queries H1 or H2 on a seed that it doesn’t trivially know through corruptions or
the challenge query. The case distinction in the main proof on the probability of A remains the same.
The case where E happens with relatively small probability <ϵ/ 2 (cf. Lemma 4) is easily handled, since
in this case the reduction may generate all seeds independently as before and when nodes get corrupted, it
can simply program H1 to ensure consistency. The seeds in the challenge graph are not consistent in this
simulation, but since the adversary does not query any of these seeds with high (enough) probability, this is
indistinguishable and our reduction retains most of the advantage.
The other case, where E happens with large probability≥ϵ/2 is handled similarly. The key observation
in Lemma 5 is that it is suﬃcient to simulate the GSD game correctly until E happens. Using the approach
of programming H1, this is still the case and thus Corollary 1 also holds in this case.
We conclude by observing that the CGKA graph has at most N = 2nQ nodes and that none of the seeds
and secret keys in the challenge graph (for any safe group key) is leaked by Lemma 2.
We remark that, similarly to the previous proof, one can easily adapt it to the case of TreeKEM (with
blanking)since the loss in security only depends on the maximal number of nodes in the challenge graph but
not on its structure.
4 Conclusion
We formalized and analyzed a proposed modiﬁcation to TreeKEM, the Continuous Group Key Agreement
(CGKA) algorithm that as of September 2020 is being considered for standardization by the IETF ”Message

Layer Security” working group. First, we showed that the modiﬁcation, termed TTKEM, has the potential
to achieve better eﬃciency than TreeKEM for large groups in natural settings; and is therefore worth of
further work and consideration. Second, we formulated a novel and intuitive security model against active
and adaptive outsiders for a CGKA with Forward Secrecy and Post-Compromise Security. Third, we provided
security proofs for TTKEM in both the standard and RO model, bounding the security loss (to the underlying
PKE) by a quasipolynomial factor Qlog(n) and a polynomial factor (Qn)2 respectively, wheren is the group
size and Q the total number of (update/remove/invite) operations. Our proof techniques can easily be
extended to TreeKEM.
References
1. “Message Layer Security (mls) WG,” https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/mls/about/.
2. J. Alwen, S. Coretti, and Y. Dodis, “The double ratchet: Security notions, proofs, and modularization for the
Signal protocol,” in EUROCRYPT 2019, Part I , ser. LNCS, Y. Ishai and V. Rijmen, Eds., vol. 11476. Springer,
Heidelberg, May 2019, pp. 129–158.
3. J. Alwen, S. Coretti, Y. Dodis, and Y. Tselekounis, “Security analysis and improvements for the ietf mls standard
for group messaging,” in Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2020 , D. Micciancio and T. Ristenpart, Eds. Cham:
Springer International Publishing, 2020, pp. 248–277.
4. K. Cohn-Gordon, C. Cremers, L. Garratt, J. Millican, and K. Milner, “On Ends-to-Ends Encryption:
Asynchronous Group Messaging with Strong Security Guarantees.” CCS, 2018. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3243734.3243747
5. K. Bhargavan, R. Barnes, and E. Rescorla, “TreeKEM: Asynchronous Decentralized Key Management for Large
Dynamic Groups,” May 2018.
6. R. Barnes, B. Beurdouche, J. Millican, E. Omara, K. Cohn-Gordon, and R. Robert, “The Messaging Layer
Security (MLS) Protocol,” Internet Engineering Task Force, Internet-Draft draft-ietf-mls-protocol-09, Mar.
2020, work in Progress. [Online]. Available: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-mls-protocol-09
7. K. Cohn-Gordon, C. Cremers, L. Garratt, J. Millican, and K. Milner, “On ends-to-ends encryption: Asynchronous
group messaging with strong security guarantees,” in ACM CCS 2018 , D. Lie, M. Mannan, M. Backes, and
X. Wang, Eds. ACM Press, Oct. 2018, pp. 1802–1819.
8. C. Cremers, B. Hale, and K. Kohbrok, “Eﬃcient post-compromise security beyond one group,” Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2019/477, 2019, https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/477.
9. D. Jost, U. Maurer, and M. Mularczyk, “Eﬃcient ratcheting: Almost-optimal guarantees for secure messaging,”
in EUROCRYPT 2019, Part I , ser. LNCS, Y. Ishai and V. Rijmen, Eds., vol. 11476. Springer, Heidelberg, May
2019, pp. 159–188.
10. F. B. Durak and S. Vaudenay, “Bidirectional asynchronous ratcheted key agreement with linear complexity,” in
IWSEC 19 , ser. LNCS, N. Attrapadung and T. Yagi, Eds., vol. 11689. Springer, Heidelberg, Aug. 2019, pp.
343–362.
11. J. Alwen, S. Coretti, D. Jost, and M. Mularczyk, “Continuous group key agreement with active security,”
in TCC 2020, Theory of Cryptography Conference, Durham, NC, USA, November , 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/752
12. Z. Jafargholi, C. Kamath, K. Klein, I. Komargodski, K. Pietrzak, and D. Wichs, “Be adaptive, avoid overcom-
mitting,” in CRYPTO 2017, Part I , ser. LNCS, J. Katz and H. Shacham, Eds., vol. 10401. Springer, Heidelberg,
Aug. 2017, pp. 133–163.
13. S. Panjwani, “Tackling adaptive corruptions in multicast encryption protocols,” in TCC 2007 , ser. LNCS, S. P.
Vadhan, Ed., vol. 4392. Springer, Heidelberg, Feb. 2007, pp. 21–40.
14. D. M. Wallner, E. J. Harder, and R. C. Agee, “Key management for multicast: Issues and architectures,” Internet
Draft, Sep. 1998, http://www.ietf.org/ID.html.
15. C. K. Wong, M. G. Gouda, and S. S. Lam, “Secure group communications using key graphs,” in Proceedings of
ACM SIGCOMM , Vancouver, BC, Canada, Aug. 31 – Sep. 4, 1998, pp. 68–79.
16. R. Canetti, J. A. Garay, G. Itkis, D. Micciancio, M. Naor, and B. Pinkas, “Multicast security: A taxonomy and
some eﬃcient constructions,” in IEEE INFOCOM’99 , New York, NY, USA, Mar. 21–25, 1999, pp. 708–716.
17. T. Perrin and M. Marlinspike, “The Double Ratchet Algorithm,” https://signal.org/docs/speciﬁcations/doubleratchet/,
2016.
18. M. Bellare, A. C. Singh, J. Jaeger, M. Nyayapati, and I. Stepanovs, “Ratcheted encryption and key exchange:
The security of messaging,” in CRYPTO 2017, Part III , ser. LNCS, J. Katz and H. Shacham, Eds., vol. 10403.
Springer, Heidelberg, Aug. 2017, pp. 619–650.

19. J. Jaeger and I. Stepanovs, “Optimal channel security against ﬁne-grained state compromise: The safety of
messaging,” in CRYPTO 2018, Part I , ser. LNCS, H. Shacham and A. Boldyreva, Eds., vol. 10991. Springer,
Heidelberg, Aug. 2018, pp. 33–62.
20. B. Poettering and P. R¨ osler, “Towards bidirectional ratcheted key exchange,” in CRYPTO 2018, Part I , ser.
LNCS, H. Shacham and A. Boldyreva, Eds., vol. 10991. Springer, Heidelberg, Aug. 2018, pp. 3–32.
21. Matthew A. Weidner, “Group Messaging for Secure Asynchronous Collaboration,” Master’s thesis, University of
Cambridge, June 2019.
22. D. Rybski, S. V. Buldyrev, S. Havlin, F. Liljeros, and H. A. Makse, “Scaling laws of human interaction activity,”
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , vol. 106, no. 31, pp. 12 640–12 645, 2009. [Online]. Available:
https://www.pnas.org/content/106/31/12640
23. X. Gabaix, “Zipf’s law for cities: An explanation,” The Quarterly Journal of Economics , vol. 114, no. 3, pp.
739–7675, 1999. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1162/003355399556133
24. C. H. Bennett, “Time/space trade-oﬀs for reversible computation,” SIAM J. Comput. , vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 766–776,
1989.
25. G. Fuchsbauer, C. Kamath, K. Klein, and K. Pietrzak, “Adaptively secure proxy re-encryption,” in PKC 2019,
Part II , ser. LNCS, D. Lin and K. Sako, Eds., vol. 11443. Springer, Heidelberg, Apr. 2019, pp. 317–346.
A Pseudocode for TTKEM speciﬁcation
A.1 Notation
Throughout the remaining document we will use the functionschild, parents, partner to refer to the child,
parents and partner (the other parent of the child) of any given node. The function index(ID) returns the
leaf ID has assigned, and get pk, get sk, get tainter the public key, secret key and tainter ID of a given
node respectively. Similarly, the binary functions set pk(vi,pki), set sk(vi,ski) and set tainter(vi, ID)
overwrite the public key, secret key or tainter ID associated to vi. We will use the function path to recover
the nodes in the path of a user (’s leaf) to the root. Further, we use get members(), get tree(), get hash()
to recover the member list, tree or transcript hash from a state. To update one’s view of group state, we use
the functions add party(ID,pk ) to add ID to the leftmost free spot in the tree; remove party(ID) to remove
ID; update hash(T ) to update our transcript hash with the message T ; init state(M,T,H) to initialize
our state after joining; and update pks and tainter(new pks, ID, ID′) to update the public keys of nodes
corresponding to ID, and changing their tainter ID to ID’. We will need to sample fresh random seeds to
generate new key pairs when refreshing a path, we do this through gen-seed.
A.2 Path partitions
When updating, a user needs to partition the set of extra nodes to be refreshed (nodes not on their path
with a tainted ancestor) into paths, so that a single seed can be used to update each path. Formally, for a
user id, we want a set of paths Pi ={vi,0,...,v i,mi} such that every tainted node is in some path Pi and
moreover:
– child(vi,j) =vi,j+1 for j <mi (Pi is a path)
– vi,j⁄=vk,l if i⁄=k for any j, l (each node is only in one path)
– get tainter(vi,0) =id (the start of each path is a node tainted by id)
–∀i,j : child(vi,mi)⁄=vj,0 (paths are maximal)
– Pi
⋂Pid =∅ (paths are disjoint from main path to root)
– child(vi,mi)∈Pid∨ child(vj,mj)∈Pi with i<j (the partition is unique)
– vi,0 <v j,0 if i<j (there is a total ordering on paths)
where Pid is the path from the user’s leaf to the root and vi < vj if vi is more to the left in a graphical
representation of the tree (any total ordering on vertices suﬃces). We denote this ordered partition by
tainted-by(id). Note that the ﬁrst ﬁve conditions ensure that the partition contains only the nodes to be

refreshed and that its size is minimal, while the sixth and seventh conditions guarantee that the partition is
unique. A common ordering of the paths is needed, since when we refresh two paths that “intersect” (such
that child(vi,mi)∈ Pj, as the blue and red paths in the image below for example), the node secret in the
“upper” path (the red path in this example) needs to be encrypted under the new public key of the node
in the “lower” path (the new blue node) to achieve PCS. Thus, in this case, the blue path will need to be
refreshed before the red one when processing the update. In general we will refresh paths right to left, i.e.
Pi will be refreshed after Pj if i<j .
A.3 TTKEM Dynamics in detail
In this section we provide a more detailed description of the group operations together with pseudo-code for
them.
The initiator of a group operation creates a message T which contains all information needed by the
other group members to process it (though diﬀerent members might only need to retrieve a part of T for
performing the update) and in case of an Add also a welcome message W for the new member. The message
T contains the following ﬁelds:
– Tsender - ID of the sender
– Top - type of operation (remove/add/update)
– Tnew seeds - vector of ciphertexts which contains the encrypted seeds under the appropriate keys of all
refreshed nodes
– Tnew pks - vector of new public keys (derived from the new seeds) for all refreshed nodes
– TH - hash-transcript
If the operation is a removal, the ID of the party removed will also be included in Top. Similarly, in Add
messages, Top will contain the ID of the party added, together with the public key used to add him. A
welcome messageW would also contain the type of operation (welcome) and the sender ID, but additionally
include:
– Wseed - an encryption of the child node’s seed
– WT - the current tree structure, with public keys
– WM - current list of group members
– WH - current hash-transcript of the group
A new member should also be communicated the current symmetric epoch key used to communicate text
messages. As this is not strictly part of the GCKA we ignore it for simplicity.
In order to refresh the node secrets we use the function refresh(γ, ID,T ), which takes a user’s state, a
user in the group and a message T . It generates new secrets for all the nodes in that user’s path to the root
as well as all nodes tainted by them, update γ accordingly and store their encryptions in Tnew seeds. We use
the pointer me to refer to the identity of the user sending the protocol message.

refresh (γ, ID,T )
P0←γ.path(ID)
{P1,...,P n}← γ.tainted-by(ID) #refresh all paths from tainted nodes to root
for i =n,..., 0 do
vi,0,...,v i,m←Pi
{∆i,0,...∆ i,m}← expand(gen-seed(),m + 1)
for p∈ parents(vi,0) do
#encrypt ﬁrst to parents of 1st node
if p⁄=⊥ then
Tnew seeds.insert(Encγ.get pk(p)(∆i,0))
refresh-node(γ,vi,0,∆i,0,T )
for j = 1,...,m do
Tnew seeds.insert(Encγ.get pk(γ.partner(vi,j−1))(∆i,j))
refresh-node(γ,vi,j,∆i,j,T )
We use the function refresh-node that inputs a user local state γ, a node v, a seed ∆ and message T .
It updates the information related to v in the state γ using ∆ to derive the new public and secret key and
store the public key in Tnew pks.
refresh-node (γ,v,∆,T )
if v =vroot then
γ.set sk(vroot,∆ )
else
(sk,pk )← Gen(H2(∆))
γ.set pk(v,pk );
γ.set tainter(v, me)
Tnew pks.insert(pk)
if v∈γ.path(ID) then
γ.set sk(v,sk )
Initialize. To create a new group with parties {ID1,..., IDn}, a user ID1 generates a new tree where the
leaves correspond to the parties of the group (including themselves), with associated public keys the ones used
to add them. The group creator then samples new key pairs for all the other nodes in the tree (optimizing
with hierarchical derivation) and crafts welcome messages for each party.
Add. To add a new member to the group, Alice identiﬁes a free spot for them (for consistency, the left-most
free spot), hashes her secret key together with some freshly sampled randomness to obtain a seed ∆, and
derives seeds for the path to the root, overwriting the previous ones. She then encrypts the new seeds to
all the nodes in the path (one ciphertext per node suﬃces given the hierarchical derivation). The reason for
such a derivation of ∆ is that the new keys will be secure against an adversary that does not have either
knowledge of Alice’s secret key or control/knowledge of the randomness used. We use h to refer to the hash
function used.

add (γ, ID,pk )
γ′←γ
γ′.add party(ID,pk )
{v0,...,v d}← γ′.path(ID)
sk←γ′.get sk(γ′.index(me))
r← $;∆←h(sk,r )
{∆0,...,∆ d}← expand(∆,d + 1)
refresh-node(γ′,v 0,∆ 0,T )
for i = 1,...,d do
u←γ.partner(vi−1)
if u⁄=⊥ then
Tnew seeds.insert(Encγ.get pk(u)∆i)
refresh-node(γ,vi,∆i,T )
Top← (add, ID,pk )
Tsender← me
TH←γ.get hash()
γ′.update hash(T )
Wop←welcome
Wsender← me
Wseed← Encpk(∆)
WT ←γ′.get tree()
WH←γ.get hash()
WM←γ.get members()
return(γ′,W,T )
(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig. 10: (a) Pseudocode for the Add operation. Sample Add operation: (b) illustrates the state of the tree before Alice
adds Frank (6th node) after which it turns into (c).
Update. To perform an Update, a user refreshes the nodes in its path to the root and also all the nodes
tainted by him. We do this using the function refresh, adding information about the type of operation (upd)
and the initiator of that operation me.
upd (γ)
Top =upd
Tsender = me
TH =γ.get hash()
γ′←γ
refresh(γ′, me,T )
γ′.update hash(T )
return(γ′,T )
(a) (b)
Fig. 11: (a) Pseudocode for the Update operation. (b) A sample Update operation: Alice added Eve to the group
which resulted in the tainted nodes (ﬁlled). Alice decided to later update herself. The state of the tree before the
Update is in a lighter shade.
Remove. To remove a userj, useri performs an Update on behalf of j, refreshing all the nodes in j’s path
to the root as well as all nodes tainted by j (which will now become tainted by i). As with updates, we do
this by calling the function refresh, adding information about the type of operation and the initiator of that

operation. Note that a user cannot remove itself. Instead, we imagine a user that wants to leave the group
could request for someone to remove him and delete his state.
rem (γ, ID)
req me⁄= ID
Top = (rem, ID)
Tsender = me
TH =γ.get hash()
γ′←γ
refresh(γ′, ID,T )
γ′.remove party(ID)
γ′.update hash(T )
return(γ′,T )
(a)
(b)
Fig. 12: (a) Pseudocode for the Remove operation. (b) Alice removes Frank (dotted) and in the process has to update
his tainted nodes. Old state is again showed in gray.
For our process algorithm we use the algorithms get enc, update-path and proc-refresh as subroutines.
The function get enc inputs a user local state γ, a node v0, a set of paths Pi and the set of encryptions
received from the Update/Remove message, and returns the encryption corresponding to v0. Given path P,
seed∆, and update author ID, update-path updatesP using∆ as seed. Finally, proc-refresh takes a user (me)
local state γ, the set of encryptions received from the Update/Remove message Tnew seeds, the id ID of the
user that made the update/was removed, and the user sender that made the operation (distinct from ID if
the operation was a Remove), and it updates all the secret keys in the path from the me leaf to vroot.
update-path (γ,P,∆, ID)
for v∈P do
if v =vroot then
γ.set sk(vroot,∆ )
else
(sk, )← Gen(H2(∆))
∆←H1(∆)
γ.set sk(v,sk )
proc-refresh (γ,Tnew seeds, ID,sender )
P0←γ.path(ID)
{P1,...,P n}← γ.tainted-by(ID) #refresh all paths from tainted nodes to root
for i =n,..., 0 do
{v0,...,v n}← intersection(Pi,γ. path(me))
enc← get enc(γ,v 0,P 0,Tnew seeds)
(pl,pr)←γ.parents(v0)
if pl⁄=⊥∧ pl∈γ.path(me) then
sk←γ.get sk(pl)
else
sk←γ.get sk(pr)
update-path(γ,{v0,...,v n}, Decsk(enc),sender )
Process. When a user receives a protocol message T, it identiﬁes which kind of message it is and performs
the appropriate update of their state. Updates and Removes are processed using the proc-refresh algorithm;

additions are processed using the update-path algorithm. If it is a conﬁrm or a reject it updates the current
local state accordingly and remove the information in the pending local state.
process (γ,T )
req TH =γ.get hash()
if Top =upd then
proc-refresh(γ,Tnew keys,Tsender,Tsender)
γ.update pks and tainter(Tnew pks,Tsender,Tsender)
if Top = (rem, ID) then
if ID⁄= me then
proc-refresh(γ,Tnew keys, ID,Tsender)
γ.update pks and tainter(Tnew pks, ID,Tsender)
γ.remove party(ID)
else
γ←ϵ; γ′←ϵ # removed user cleans its states.
if Top = (add, ID,pk )∧ ID⁄= me then
γ.add party(ID,pk )
proc-refresh(γ,Tnew keys, ID,Tsender)
γ.update pks and tainter(Tnew pks, ID,Tsender)
if Top =welcome then
γ.init state(TM,TT,TH)
update-path(γ,{γ.index(me),...,v root}, Decsk(Tseed),Tsender)
if Top = conﬁrm then
γ←γ′; γ′←ϵ
if Top = reject then
γ′←ϵ
if Top /∈{ conﬁrm, reject} then
γ.update hash(T )
return(γ, key(γ))
B Proof of Lemma 1
Lemma 1 In TreeKEM, the number of ciphertexts required to transition from a completely blank tree (except
for the creator’s path) to a full tree, without blanks, is at least n (logn− 2) + 2.
Proof. To transition from a fully blanked (except for the group creator’s - the ﬁrst leaf - path to root) tree
to a fully unblanked tree, the following sequence of updates has minimal cost:
n/2 + 1, n/4 + 1, 3n/4 + 1, n/8 + 1, 3n/8 + 1, 5n/8 + 1, 7n/8 + 1, n/16 + 1, ...
To see this, letT1 andT∈ denote the left and right subtrees respectively. If any user (with a leaf) in T1
updates before anyone inT2 does,T2 will be blank. Hence, communicating the new group key to users in T∈
will require one ciphertext per user. On the contrary, if some update from T2 has already taken place, all
updates from T1 will just require a single ciphertext to be communicated to T2: an encryption of the new
group secret under the head of T2. Moreover, note that the cost of any update from T2 will be independent
from the structure ofT1, as, being on the group creator’s path, the head of T1 will not be blank. Therefore,
the optimal scenario is that someone from the right subtree updates ﬁrst; assume its the user with the leaf in
positionn/2+1 without loss of generality. Following a similar argument, an update from a user inT∞ should
come ﬁrst from the right subtree of T1, assume w.l.o.g. it comes from the left-most user in that subtree, and
so on (similarly for T2). Thus, we get that the sequence above is optimal.
Now, the cost (i.e. number of required ciphertexts) to update in this order is ( n/2− 1) + 1 for the ﬁrst
update, (n/4− 1) + 2 for each of the two next ones, (n/8− 1) + 3 for the 4 next, and so on. We end up with
the following lower-bound on the cost of healing:

n
2 + 2
(n
4 + 1
)
+ 4
(n
8 + 2
)
+... + n
4
( n
n/2 + logn− 2
)
=
= n
2 (logn− 1) +
logn−1∑
i=1
(i− 1)2i−1
= n
2 (logn− 1) + 2
(
2logn−2(logn− 2)− 2logn−2 + 1
)
=n (logn− 2) + 2
⊓ ⊔
C Optimize Lemma 4 and Corollary 1
In the proof of Lemma 4 we considered a variant GSD’ of GSD, where the challenger aborts once event E is
triggered. Here we optimize the result by prooving that GSD’-security reduces to IND-CPA security of the
underlying encryption scheme at a loss in security which is independent of the degree of the key graph.
Lemma 6. Let the event E be deﬁned as in the proof of Theorem 3 and A an adversary against GSD’
with advantage ϵ, where GSD’ is deﬁned similar to GSD but the challenger aborts once event E is triggered.
Then, in the ROM, there exists an IND-CPA adversary A′ against the underlying encryption scheme with
advantage > ϵ
N 2 .
Proof. We deﬁne an adversary A′ against IND-CPA security of Π as follows (see Figure 13): On receipt of
a challenge public key pk∗, A′ samples two independent uniformly random seeds s,s′∈ S and sends them
to the IND-CPA challenger. In response it receives a challenge ciphertext c∗ which encrypts either s in case
b∗ = 0 or s′ if b∗ = 1. To guess the secret bit b∗, the algorithm A′ now attempts to simulate a hybrid game
toA and embed the challenge c∗ in such a way that, for some i, the execution of the game will look just like
G′
i−1 ifb∗ = 0 and like G′
i (where G′
i is a variant of Gi from the proof of Theorem 3 where the game aborts in
case E happens). To this aim, A′ ﬁrst samples v∗← [N] uniformly at random (i.e., it guesses the challenge
node). Then it samples independent seeds su∈S uniformly at random for all nodes u∈ [N]\{v∗} and sets
sv∗ :=s. Instead of sampling a fresh seed s′, A′ just uses the seed s′ which it used in the IND-CPA game.
Hence, both sv∗ and s′ are associated with node v∗. Next, A′ chooses u∗← [N] uniformly at random and
for all u∈ [N]\{u∗} queries the random oracle H on su to receive ru := H(su). Just the same as in the
GSD game, A′ then computes ( pku, sku)← Gen(ru). To embed the challenge, it sets pku∗ := pk∗.
A′ now answers all encryption queries just as in the game GSD0 except for the edges incident on v∗: All
queries (encrypt,u,v∗) are answered with encryptions Encpku(s′), until A queries (encrypt,u∗,v∗), which
is answered with c∗; all further queries are answered with encryptions of s. All corrupt queries are answered
just the same as in the GSD game and the challenge query v is answered with sv. For all queries A makes
to the random oracle, A′ just queries its own oracle H and returns the output.
In this way A′ aims to simulate some game G′
i and this simulation is perfect except for the case that
A queries the random oracle H on su∗: To answer this query consistently, A′ would have to output a seed
ru∗ satisfying Gen(ru∗) = ( pk∗, sk∗). This however implies that either 1) the node u∗ was challenged or
corrupted, hence, u∗ can not be a parent of the challenge node so the simulation failed due to an incorrect
guess anyway; or 2) A triggered event E, in which case G′
i aborts and thus A′ can simply abort and output
1, which faithfully preserves the simulation. Accordingly, as soon as A′ sees that its guesses u∗ and v∗ are
incorrect, i.e., v∗ is not the challenge node or u∗ is corrupted or reachable from a corrupted node, it aborts
the game and outputs b′ = 1.
The following events will now determine the output behaviour of A′:
– EventU: A queried (encrypt,u∗,v ).

– EventV : The challenge node v coincides with v∗.
After running the game with A, the reduction A′ evaluates whether these events happened and chooses its
ﬁnal output b′ as follows: If U and V are true, this means that A′ correctly guessed the challenge node v,
managed to embed the IND-CPA challenge key pk∗ at u∗ and some game G′
i was executed. In this case
A′ outputs the bit b it received from A. Note that if ( encrypt,u∗,v∗) happens to be the ﬁrst encryption
query incident on the challenge node v = v∗ and b∗ = 0, then the game simulated to A looks exactly the
same as GSD′
0. If (encrypt,u∗,v∗) happens to be the last encryption query incident on the challenge node
v =v∗ and b∗ = 1, then the game simulated to A looks exactly the same as GSD′
1. If either U or V fails, as
mentioned above, A′ outputs b′ = 1.
If A either doesn’t make a challenge query or the challenge node v is a source node, then the advantage
˜ϵ of A in winning the GSD game is 0 (information-theoretically; note by deﬁnition the challenge node must
be a sink). Hence, we assume that v is not a source node. Furthermore, we assume that v constitutes a valid
GSD challenge, since otherwise, again, the advantage of A is 0. If any of these assumptions fail, A′ outputs
b′ = 1.
For the advantage of A′ in breaking the IND-CPA security of the encryption scheme we have
Pr[A′→ 0|b∗ = 0]− Pr[A′→ 0|b∗ = 1] = Pr[(A′→ 0)∧U∧V |b∗ = 0]− Pr[(A′→ 0)∧U∧V |b∗ = 1]
For technical reasons, we slightly modify A′ as follows: After the interaction with A, the reduction A′
one by one adds further edges incident on v, where it starts with edges outgoing from nodes which are
neither corrupted nor reachable from a corrupted node, if such nodes exist. This neither changes the output
behaviour ofA′ nor validity of the challenge node, since it happens after the execution of the GSD’ game. We
considerN− 1 disjoint eventsUi denoting the event thatu∗ is the source of the ith encryption edge incident
on v (with respect to the chronological order of the queries). Let δ be an upper bound on the indegree of
the (ﬁnal) key graphG. We denote the event that A queries exactly j encryptions incident on the challenge
node by ∆j. Hence, if V , Ui and ∆j for some j≥ i happen, then depending on the challenge bit b∗, the
game simulated to A is distributed exactly the same as G′
i−1 or G′
i. Since V and A′→ 0 implies U and we
are guaranteed that one of the Ui and one of the ∆j happens, we have for all i,j :
Pr[(A′→ 0)∧U∧V |b∗ = 0]
=
δ∑
j=1
N−1∑
i=1
Pr[A′→ 0|∆j∧V∧Ui∧ (b∗ = 0)]· Pr[∆j|V∧Ui∧ (b∗ = 0)]· Pr[V∧Ui|b∗ = 0]
(1)
and similarly for the case b∗ = 1. LetU∗ denote the subevent ofU thatu∗ is neither corrupted nor reachable
from a corrupted node. Then for all i∈ [2,N − 1], (since E doesn’t happen) the game simulated to A is
identically distributed in the two cases U∗∧Ui∧ (b∗ = 0) and U∗∧Ui−1∧ (b∗ = 1). This is true no matter
if the ith encryption was queried by A or not. Thus, we have
Pr[A′→ 0|∆j∧V∧U∗∧Ui∧ (b∗ = 0)] = Pr[A′→ 0|∆j∧V∧U∗∧Ui−1∧ (b∗ = 1)].
On the other hand, if U∗ is false and u∗ is corrupted or reachable by a corrupted node, then A′ outputs 1,
independently of any other events to happen. For the probability that U∗ happens, note that if A makes at
leasti encryption queries incident on the challenge nodev, thenU∗ must be true in both casesV∧Ui∧(b∗ = 0)
and V∧Ui−1∧ (b∗ = 1). Thus, we obtain for all j∈ [δ], i∈ [2,N− 1] such that j≥i:
Pr[A′→ 0|∆j∧V∧Ui∧ (b∗ = 0)]
=Pr[A′→ 0|∆j∧V∧U∗∧Ui∧ (b∗ = 0)]· Pr[U∗|∆j∧V∧Ui∧ (b∗ = 0)]
=Pr[A′→ 0|∆j∧V∧U∗∧Ui−1∧ (b∗ = 1)]· Pr[U∗|∆j∧V∧Ui−1∧ (b∗ = 1)]
=Pr[A′→ 0|∆j∧V∧Ui−1∧ (b∗ = 1)].
(2)

BC,A,H
Π=(Gen,Enc,Dec)(pk∗)
ˆU,V,E, FAIL← false
E,C←∅
G← ([N],E)
s∗←⊥
v∗←$ [N]
s,s′←$S
(pk∗,c∗)←$C(s,s′)
for u∈ [N]\{v∗}
su←$S
sv∗←s
u∗←$ [N]
for u∈ [N]\{u∗}
ru←H(su)
(pku, sku)←$ Gen(ru)
pku∗← pk∗
b←AB-enc,B-corr,B-chall,B-H
if no challenge query was issued
or v reachable inG from a node in C
or v not a sink node in G
or v a source node in G
FAIL← true
if¬V or¬ ˆU or E or FAIL
return 1
else
return b
B-enc(u1,u 2)
E←E∪{ (u1,u 2)}
if u2 =v∗
if u1 =u∗
ˆU← true
return c∗
else if ˆU
return Encpku1
(s)
else
return Encpku1
(s′)
return Encpku1
(su2)
B-corr(u)
C←C∪{ u}
return su
B-chall(v)
// one time use only
if v =v∗
V ← true
C←C∪{ v}
return sv
B-H(¯s)
if ¯s =su∗
FAIL← true
return⊥
if (¯s =su for some u∈ [N]\{v})
or (not V and ¯s =s′)
if u (resp. v) is not reachable in G
from any of the u′∈C
E← true
abortA
return H(¯s)
Fig. 13: Security Reduction for RO proof. C is the IND-CPA challenger.
If A queries less than i encryption queries incident on v, then Ui implies that A′ outputs 1, independently
of b∗. Thus, for all j∈ [δ], i∈ [2,N− 1] such that j <i:
Pr[A′→ 0|∆j∧V∧Ui∧ (b∗ =b)] = 0 (3)
for either b∈{ 0, 1}. By a similar argument as above, we have for all j >i:
Pr[∆j|V∧Ui∧ (b∗ = 0)] = Pr[∆j|V∧Ui−1∧ (b∗ = 1)] (4)

In fact, (4) also holds in casej =i, but this is more subtle. Here, it is crucial that A′ starts with uncorrupted
nodes when choosing additional edges after the interaction withA: Clearly, if there are onlyi nodes (including
v) which are neither corrupted nor reachable from a corrupted node, then ∆i cannot happen. On the other
hand, if there are more than i such nodes, then Ui implies that u∗ is such a node and the claim follows by
noting that after the i− 1th query the case V∧Ui−1∧ (b∗ = 1) is indistinguishable from the case where the
edge (u∗,v∗) has not yet been made.
Since Ui is equally distributed for all i∈ [N] and independent of b∗, it also holds
Pr[V∧Ui|b∗ = 0] = Pr[V |Ui∧ (b∗ = 0)] Pr[Ui|b∗ = 0]
= Pr[V |Ui∧ (b∗ = 0)] Pr[Ui]
= Pr[V |Ui−1∧ (b∗ = 1)] Pr[Ui−1]
= Pr[V |Ui−1∧ (b∗ = 1)] Pr[Ui−1|b∗ = 1]
= Pr[V∧Ui−1|b∗ = 1].
(5)
This implies
δ∑
j=1
N−1∑
i=1
Pr[A′→ 0|∆j∧V∧Ui∧ (b∗ = 0)]· Pr[∆j|V∧Ui∧ (b∗ = 0)]· Pr[V∧Ui|b∗ = 0]
=
δ∑
j=1
(
Pr[A′→ 0|∆j∧V∧U1∧ (b∗ = 0)]· Pr[∆j|V∧U1∧ (b∗ = 0)]· Pr[V∧U1|b∗ = 0]
+
j∑
i=2
Pr[A′→ 0|∆j∧V∧Ui−1∧ (b∗ = 1)]· Pr[∆j|V∧Ui−1∧ (b∗ = 1)]· Pr[V∧Ui−1|b∗ = 1]
)
(6)
Thus, when computing the diﬀerence of the probabilities of ( A′→ 0)∧V∧U conditioned on b∗ = 0 and
b∗ = 1, respectively, most terms cancel, except for the terms for the two extreme cases U1∧ (b∗ = 0) and
Uj∧ (b∗ = 1).
Pr[(A′→ 0)∧U∧V |b∗ = 0]− Pr[(A′→ 0)∧U∧V |b∗ = 1]
=
δ∑
j=1
(Pr[(A′→ 0)∧∆j∧V∧U1|b∗ = 0]− Pr[(A′→ 0)∧∆j∧V∧Uj|b∗ = 1])
=Pr[(A′→ 0)∧V∧U1|b∗ = 0]− Pr[(A′→ 0)∧V∧Ulast|b∗ = 1],
(7)
whereUlast denotes the event thatu∗ is the source of the last encryption query incident on v whichA makes.
If V and U1 happen and b∗ = 0, then the game simulated to A is exactly the same as the real game GSD′
0;
similarly, ifV andUlast happen and b∗ = 1, then the game simulated to A is exactly the same as the random
game GSD′
1. In other words,
Pr[A′→ 0|V∧U1∧ (b∗ = 0)] = Pr[A(GSD′
0)→ 0]
and
Pr[A′→ 0|V∧Ulast∧ (b∗ = 1)] = Pr[A(GSD′
1)→ 0]. (8)
Now, as long as A does not issue the challenge query, the games simulated to A are identically distributed
in both cases 19 V∧U1∧ (b∗ = 0) and V∧Ulast∧ (b∗ = 1): All edges incident on v∗ encrypt the same seed
(s in the ﬁrst case and s′ in the latter), and both seeds associated with v∗ were neither queried to H nor
19 Note that not all encryption queries incident on v might have been issued at this point, but this does not aﬀect
the analysis.

reveiled by a corruption or challenge query. Hence, v∗ looks just the same as any other potential challenge
node and we have
Pr[V |U1∧ (b∗ = 0)] = Pr[V |Ulast∧ (b∗ = 1)]≥ 1
N. (9)
Since we’re guaranteed that the challenge node will not be a source node, we also have that
Pr[U1|b∗ = 0] = Pr[Ulast|b∗ = 1]≥ 1
N. (10)
Combining equations (1)-(10), we ﬁnally arrive at
Pr[(A′→ 0)∧U∧V |b∗ = 0]− Pr[(A′→ 0)∧U∧V |b∗ = 1]
= Pr[A′→ 0|V∧U1∧ (b∗ = 0)]· Pr[V∧U1|b∗ = 0]
− Pr[A′→ 0|V∧Ulast∧ (b∗ = 1)]· Pr[V∧Ulast|b∗ = 1]
= (Pr[A′→ 0|V∧U1∧ (b∗ = 0)]− Pr[A′→ 0|V∧Ulast∧ (b∗ = 1)])· Pr[V∧U1|b∗ = 0]
≥ 1
N 2·
(
Pr[A(GSD′
0)→ 0]− Pr[A(GSD′
1)→ 0]
)
.
This proves the claim. ⊓ ⊔
Corollary 2. Let the event E be deﬁned as in the proof of Theorem 3, and A an arbitrary GSD adversary
which triggers E with probability ϵ. Then there exists an IND-CPA adversary A′ with advantage
Pr[A′→ 0|b∗ = 0]− Pr[A′→ 0|b∗ = 1]≥ ϵ
N 2− m
N2𝓁.
Proof. We ﬁrst apply Lemma 5 to construct an adversary against GSD” with advantage ϵ
N− m
2𝓁 . Then we
apply a very similar proof as for Lemma 6 to construct an IND-CPA adversary: This proof is exactly the
same with the only diﬀerence being that GSD” is less adaptive, i.e. A commits to the challenge node at the
beginning of the game. This means that A′ does not have to guess v∗ and the event V is always true. Thus,
we only lose an additional factor 1/N due to guessingu∗. Finally, we note that, sinceA′ is sampling the keys
itself for all nodes except u∗, the increase in the number of nodes from N to N + 1 due to Lemma 5 can be
ignored, since A′ does not actually need to create the additional node, since it knows the seed sv∗. ⊓ ⊔