Byzantine Eventual Consistency and the Fundamental Limits of
Peer-to-Peer Databases
Martin Kleppmann
University of Cambridge
Cambridge, UK
mk428@cst.cam.ac.uk
Heidi Howard
University of Cambridge
Cambridge, UK
hh360@cst.cam.ac.uk
ABSTRACT
Sybil attacks, in which a large number of adversary-controlled
nodes join a network, are a concern for many peer-to-peer database
systems, necessitating expensive countermeasures such as proof-
of-work. However, there is a category of database applications that
are, by design, immune to Sybil attacks because they can tolerate
arbitrary numbers of Byzantine-faulty nodes. In this paper, we
characterize this category of applications using a consistency model
we call Byzantine Eventual Consistency (BEC). We introduce an
algorithm that guarantees BEC based on Byzantine causal broadcast,
prove its correctness, and demonstrate near-optimal performance
in a prototype implementation.
1 INTRODUCTION
Peer-to-peer systems are of interest to many communities for a
number of reasons: their lack of central control by a single party
can make them more resilient, and less susceptible to censorship
and denial-of-service attacks than centralized services. Examples of
widely deployed peer-to-peer applications include file sharing [58],
scientific dataset sharing [61], decentralized social networking [72],
cryptocurrencies [55], and blockchains [9].
Many peer-to-peer systems are essentially replicated database
systems, albeit often with an application-specific data model. For
example, in a cryptocurrency, the replicated state comprises the
balance of each user’s account; in BitTorrent [58], it is the files being
shared. Some blockchains support more general data storage and
smart contracts (essentially, deterministic stored procedures) that
are executed as serializable transactions by a consensus algorithm.
The central challenge faced by peer-to-peer databases is that
peers cannot be trusted because anybody in the world can add
peers to the network. Thus, we must assume that some subset of
peers are malicious; such peers are also called Byzantine-faulty,
which means that they may deviate from the specified protocol in
arbitrary ways. Moreover, a malicious party may perform a Sybil
attack [24]: launching a large number of peers, potentially causing
the Byzantine-faulty peers to outnumber the honest ones.
Several countermeasures against Sybil attacks are used. Bitcoin
popularized the concept of proof-of-work [55], in which a peer’s
voting power depends on the computational effort it expends. Un-
fortunately, proof-of-work is extraordinarily expensive: it has been
estimated that as of 2020, Bitcoin alone represents almost half of
worldwide datacenter electricity use [77]. Permissioned blockchains
avoid this huge carbon footprint, but they have the downside of
requiring central control over the peers that may join the system,
undermining the principle of decentralization. Other mechanisms,
such as proof-of-stake [9], are at present unproven.
The reason why permissioned blockchains must control member-
ship is that they rely on Byzantine agreement, which assumes that
at most𝑓 nodes are Byzantine-faulty. To tolerate𝑓 faults, Byzantine
agreement algorithms typically require at least 3𝑓+ 1 nodes [17].
If more than 𝑓 nodes are faulty, these algorithms can guarantee
neither safety (agreement) nor liveness (progress). Thus, a Sybil
attack that causes the bound of𝑓 faulty nodes to be exceeded can
result in the system’s guarantees being violated; for example, in a
cryptocurrency, they could allow the same coin to be spent multiple
times (a double-spending attack).
This state of affairs raises the question: if Byzantine agreement
cannot be achieved in the face of arbitrary numbers of Byzantine-
faulty nodes, what properties can be guaranteed in this case?
A system that tolerates arbitrary numbers of Byzantine-faulty
nodes is immune to Sybil attacks: even if the malicious peers out-
number the honest ones, it is still able to function correctly. This
makes such systems of large practical importance: being immune to
Sybil attacks means neither proof-of-work nor the central control
of permissioned blockchains is required.
In this paper, we provide a precise characterization of the types
of problems that can and cannot be solved in the face of arbitrary
numbers of Byzantine-faulty nodes. We do this by viewing peer-
to-peer networks through the lens of distributed database systems
and their consistency models. Our analysis is based on usinginvari-
ants – predicates over database states – to express an application’s
correctness properties, such as integrity constraints.
Our key result is a theorem stating that it is possible for a peer-
to-peer database to be immune to Sybil attacks if and only if all
of the possible transactions areI-confluent (invariant confluent)
with respect to all of the application’s invariants on the database.
I-confluence, defined in Section 2.2, was originally introduced for
non-Byzantine systems [ 6], and our result shows that it is also
applicable in a Byzantine context. Our result does not solve the
problem of Bitcoin electricity consumption, because (as we show
later) a cryptocurrency is notI-confluent. However, there is a wide
range of applications that areI-confluent, and which can therefore
be implemented in a permissionless peer-to-peer system without
resorting to proof-of-work. Our work shows how to do this.
Our contributions in this paper are as follows:
(1) We define a consistency model for replicated databases,
called Byzantine eventual consistency (BEC), which can be
achieved in systems with arbitrary numbers of Byzantine-
faulty nodes.
(2) We introduce replication algorithms that ensure BEC, and
prove their correctness without bounding the number of
Byzantine faults. Our approach first definesByzantine causal
arXiv:2012.00472v1  [cs.DC]  1 Dec 2020

broadcast, a mechanism for reliably multicasting messages
to a group of nodes, and then uses it for BEC replication.
(3) We evaluate the performance of a prototype implementation
of our algorithms, and demonstrate that our optimized algo-
rithm incurs only a small network communication overhead,
making it viable for use in practical systems.
(4) We prove thatI-confluence is a necessary and sufficient
condition for the existence of a BEC replication algorithm,
and we use this result to determine which applications can
be immune to Sybil attacks.
2 BACKGROUND AND DEFINITIONS
We first introduce background required for the rest of the paper.
2.1 Strong Eventual Consistency and CRDTs
Eventual consistency is usually defined as: “If no further updates
are made, then eventually all replicas will be in the same state [76]. ”
This is a very weak model: it does not specify when the consistent
state will be reached, and the premise “if no further updates are
made” may never be true in a system in which updates happen
continuously. To strengthen this model, Shapiro et al. [65] introduce
strong eventual consistency (SEC), which requires that:
Eventual update: If an update is applied by a correct replica,
then all correct replicas will eventually apply that update.
Convergence: Any two correct replicas that have applied the
same set of updates are in the same state (even if the updates
were applied in a different order).
Read operations can be performed on any replica at any time,
and they return that replica’s current state at that point in time.
In the context of replicated databases, one way of achieving
SEC is by executing a transaction at one replica, disseminating the
updates from the transaction to the other replicas using a reliable
broadcast protocol (e.g. a gossip protocol [38]), and applying the
updates to each replica’s state using a commutative function. Let
𝑆′ = apply(𝑆,𝑢) be the function that applies the set of updates𝑢
to the replica state𝑆, resulting in an updated replica state𝑆′. Then
two sets of updates𝑢1 and𝑢2 commute if
∀𝑆. apply(apply(𝑆,𝑢 1),𝑢 2) = apply(apply(𝑆,𝑢 2),𝑢 1).
Two replicas can apply the same commutative sets of updates in a
different order, and still converge to the same state.
One technique for implementing such commutativity is to use
Conflict-free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs) [65]. These abstract
datatypes are designed such that concurrent updates to their state
commute, with built-in resolution policies for conflicting updates.
CRDTs have been used to implement a range of applications, such
as key-value stores [4, 79], multi-user collaborative text editors [78],
note-taking tools [ 75], games [ 73], CAD applications [ 42], dis-
tributed filesystems [54, 71], project management tools [35], and
many others. Several papers present techniques for achieving com-
mutativity in different datatypes [34, 59, 64, 78].
2.2 Invariant confluence
An invariant is a predicate over replica states, i.e. a function𝐼(𝑆)
that takes a replica state𝑆 and returns eithertrue orfalse. Invariants
can represent many types of consistency properties and constraints
commonly found in databases, such as referential integrity, unique-
ness, or restrictions on the value of a data item (e.g. requiring it to
be non-negative).
Informally, a set of transactions isI-confluent with regard to an
invariant𝐼 if different replicas can independently execute subsets
of the transactions, each ensuring that𝐼 is preserved, and we can be
sure that the result of merging the updates from those transactions
will still satisfy 𝐼. More formally, let 𝑇 ={𝑇1,...,𝑇 𝑛} be the set
of transactions executed by a system, and let 𝑢𝑖 be the updates
resulting from the execution of𝑇𝑖. Assume that for all𝑖,𝑗 ∈[ 1,𝑛],
if𝑇𝑖 and𝑇𝑗 were executed concurrently by different replicas (written
𝑇𝑖∥𝑇𝑗 ), then updates𝑢𝑖 and𝑢 𝑗 commute. Then we say that𝑇 is
I-confluent with regard to invariant𝐼 if:
∀𝑖,𝑗 ∈[ 1,𝑛].∀𝑆.(𝑇𝑖∥𝑇𝑗)∧ 𝐼(𝑆)∧ 𝐼(apply(𝑆,𝑢 𝑖))∧ 𝐼(apply(𝑆,𝑢 𝑗))
=⇒𝐼(apply(apply(𝑆,𝑢 𝑖),𝑢 𝑗)).
As𝑢𝑖 and𝑢 𝑗 commute, this also implies𝐼(apply(apply(𝑆,𝑢 𝑗),𝑢 𝑖)).
As an example, consider a uniqueness constraint, i.e.𝐼(𝑆) = true
if there is no more than one data item in𝑆 for which a particular
attribute has a given value. If𝑇1 and𝑇2 are both transactions that
create data items with the same value in that attribute, then{𝑇1,𝑇2}
is notI-confluent with regard to𝐼: each of𝑇1 and𝑇2 individually
preserves the constraint, but the combination of the two does not.
As a second example, say that 𝐼(𝑆) = true if every user in 𝑆
has a non-negative account balance. If𝑇1 and𝑇2 are both transac-
tions that increase the same user’s account balance, then{𝑇1,𝑇2}
isI-confluent with regard to𝐼, because the sum of the two posi-
tive balance updates cannot cause the balance to become negative
(assuming no overflow). However, if𝑇1 and𝑇2 decrease the same
user’s account balance, then they are notI-confluent with regard
to𝐼: any one of the transactions may be fine, but the sum of the
two could cause the balance to become negative.
I-confluence was introduced by Bailis et al. [6] in the context of
non-Byzantine systems, along with a proof that a set of transactions
can be executed in a coordination-free manner if and only if those
transactions areI-confluent with regard to all of the application’s
invariants. “Coordination-free” means, loosely speaking, that one
replica does not have to wait for a response from any other replica
before it can commit a transaction.
2.3 System model
Our system consists of a finite set of replicas, which may vary
over time. Any replica may execute transactions. Each replica is
either correct or faulty, but a correct replica does not know whether
another replica is faulty. A correct replica follows the specified
protocol, whereas a faulty replica may deviate from the protocol
in arbitrary ways (i.e. it is Byzantine-faulty [37]). Faulty replicas
may collude and attempt to deceive correct replicas; we model
such worst-case behavior by assuming a malicious adversary who
controls the behavior of all faulty replicas. We allow any subset
of replicas to be faulty. We consider all replicas to be equal peers,
making no distinction e.g. between clients and servers. Replicas may
crash and recover; as long as a crashed replica eventually recovers,
and otherwise follows the protocol, we still call it “correct”.
We assume that each replica has a distinct private key that can
be used for digital signatures, and that the corresponding public
2

𝑝 𝑞
Figure 1: Above: correct replicas (white) form a connected
component. Below: faulty replicas (red) are able to prevent
communication between correct replicas 𝑝 and𝑞.
key is known to all replicas. We assume that no replica knows the
private key of another replica, and thus signatures cannot be forged.
Unlike in a permissioned blockchain, there is no need for central
control over the set of public keys in the system: for example, one
replica may add another replica to the system by informing the
existing replicas about the new replica’s public key.
Replicas communicate by sending messages over pairwise (bidi-
rectional, unicast) network links. We assume that all messages sent
over these links are signed with the sender’s private key, and the
recipient ignores messages with invalid signatures. Thus, even if
the adversary can tamper with network traffic, it can only cause
message loss but not impersonate a correct replica. For simplicity,
our algorithms assume that network links are reliable, i.e. that a
sent message is eventually delivered, provided that neither sender
nor recipient crashes. This can easily be achieved by detecting and
retransmitting any lost messages.
We make no timing assumptions: messages may experience un-
bounded delay in the network (for example, due to retransmissions
during temporary network partitions), replicas may execute at dif-
ferent speeds, and we do not assume any clock synchronization
(i.e. we assume an asynchronous system model). We do assume
that a replica has a timer that allows it to perform some task ap-
proximately periodically, such as retransmitting unacknowledged
messages, without requiring exact time measurement.
Not all pairs of replicas are necessarily connected with a network
link. However, we must assume that in the graph of replicas and net-
work links, the correct replicas form a single connected component,
as illustrated in Figure 1. This assumption is necessary because if
two correct replicas can only communicate via faulty replicas, then
no algorithm can guarantee data exchange between those replicas,
as the adversary can always block communication (this is known as
an eclipse attack [67]). The easiest way of satisfying this assumption
is to connect each replica to every other.
3 BYZANTINE EVENTUAL CONSISTENCY
We now define Byzantine Eventual Consistency (BEC), and prove
thatI-confluence is both necessary and sufficient to implement it.
3.1 Definition of BEC
We say that a replica generates a set of updates if those updates are
the result of that replica executing a committed transaction. We
say a replicated database provides Byzantine Eventual Consistency
if it satisfies the following properties in the system model of § 2.3:
Self-update: If a correct replica generates an update, it applies
that update to its own state.
Eventual update: For any update applied by a correct replica,
all correct replicas will eventually apply that update.
Convergence: Any two correct replicas that have applied the
same set of updates are in the same state.
Atomicity: When a correct replica applies an update, it atom-
ically applies all of the updates resulting from the same
transaction.
Authenticity: If a correct replica applies an update that is
labeled as originating from replica𝑠, then that update was
generated by replica𝑠.
Causal consistency: If a correct replica generates or applies
update𝑢1 before generating update𝑢2, then all correct repli-
cas apply𝑢1 before𝑢2.
Invariant preservation: The state of a correct replica always
satisfies all of the application’s declared invariants.
Read operations can be performed at any time, and their result re-
flects the replica state that results from applying only updates made
by committed transactions. In other words, we require read com-
mitted transaction isolation [3], but we do not assume serializable
isolation. BEC is a strengthening of SEC (§ 2.1); the main differences
are that SEC assumes a non-Byzantine system, and SEC does not
require atomicity, causal consistency, or invariant preservation.
BEC ensures that all correct replicas converge towards the same
shared state, even if they also communicate with any number of
Byzantine-faulty replicas. Essentially, BEC ensures that faulty repli-
cas cannot permanently corrupt the state of correct replicas. As is
standard in Byzantine systems, the properties above only constrain
the behavior of correct replicas, since we can make no assumptions
or guarantees about the behavior or state of faulty replicas.
3.2 Existence of a BEC algorithm
For the following theorem we define a replication algorithm to be
fault-tolerant if it is able to commit transactions while at most one
replica is crashed or unreachable. In other words, in a system with
𝑟 replicas, a replica is able to commit a transaction after receiving
responses from up to𝑟−2 replicas (all but itself and one unavailable
replica). We adopt this very weak definition of fault tolerance since
it makes the following theorem stronger; the theorem also holds
for algorithms that tolerate more than one fault.
We are now ready to prove our main theorem:
Theorem 3.1. Assume an asynchronous1 system with a finite set
of replicas, of which any subset may be Byzantine-faulty. Assume
there is a known set of invariants that the data on each replica should
satisfy. Then there exists a fault-tolerant algorithm that ensures BEC
if and only if the set of all transactions executed by correct replicas is
I-confluent with respect to each of the invariants.
1This theorem also holds for partially synchronous [27] systems, in which network
latency is only temporarily unbounded, but eventually becomes bounded. However,
for simplicity, we assume an asynchronous system in this proof.
3

Proof. For the backward direction, we assume that the set of
transactions executed by correct replicas isI-confluent with respect
to all of the invariants. Then the algorithm defined in § 5 ensures
BEC, as proved in Appendices A and B, demonstrating the existence
of an algorithm that ensures BEC.
For the forward direction, we assume that the set of transactions
𝑇 executed by correct replicas is notI-confluent with respect to at
least one invariant𝐼. We must then show that under this assumption,
there is no fault-tolerant algorithm that ensures BEC and preserves
all invariants in the presence of an arbitrary number of Byzantine-
faulty replicas. We do this by assuming that such an algorithm
exists and deriving a contradiction.
If𝑇 is notI-confluent with respect to𝐼, then there must exist con-
currently executed transactions𝑇𝑖,𝑇 𝑗∈𝑇 that violateI-confluence.
That is,𝑢𝑖 and𝑢 𝑗 are the sets of updates generated by 𝑇𝑖 and𝑇𝑗
respectively, and there exists a replica state𝑆 such that
𝐼(𝑆)∧𝐼(apply(𝑆,𝑢 𝑖))∧𝐼(apply(𝑆,𝑢 𝑗))∧¬𝐼(apply(apply(𝑆,𝑢 𝑖),𝑢 𝑗)).
Let 𝑅 be the set of replicas. Let 𝑝 be the correct replica that
executes𝑇𝑖, let𝑞 be the correct replica that executes𝑇𝑗 , and assume
that all of the remaining replicas 𝑅\{𝑝,𝑞} are Byzantine-faulty.
Assume𝑝 and𝑞 are both in the state𝑆 before executing𝑇𝑖 and𝑇𝑗 .
Now we let𝑝 and𝑞 execute𝑇𝑖 and𝑇𝑗 concurrently. The trans-
action execution and replication algorithm may perform arbitrary
computation and communication among replicas. However, since
the system is asynchronous, messages may be subject to unbounded
network latency. Assume that in this execution, messages between
𝑝 and𝑞 are severely delayed, while messages between any other
pairs of replicas are received quickly.
Since the replication algorithm is fault-tolerant, replica𝑝 must
eventually commit𝑇𝑖 without receiving any message from𝑞, and
similarly𝑞 must eventually commit𝑇𝑗 without receiving any mes-
sage from𝑝. Both transactions may communicate with any subset
of𝑅\{𝑝,𝑞}, but since all of these replicas are Byzantine-faulty,
they may fail to inform𝑝 about𝑞’s conflicting transaction𝑇𝑗 , and
fail to inform𝑞 about𝑝’s conflicting transaction𝑇𝑖. Thus,𝑇𝑖 and𝑇𝑗
are both eventually committed.
After both𝑇𝑖 and𝑇𝑗 have been committed, communication be-
tween𝑝 and𝑞 becomes fast again. Due to the eventual update prop-
erty of BEC,𝑢𝑖 must eventually be applied at𝑞, and𝑢 𝑗 must even-
tually be applied at𝑝, resulting in the state apply(apply(𝑆,𝑢 𝑖),𝑢 𝑗)
on both replicas, in which𝐼 is violated. This contradicts our earlier
assumption that the algorithm always preserves invariants.
Since we did not make any assumptions about the internal struc-
ture of the algorithm, this argument shows that no fault-tolerant
algorithm exists that guarantees BEC in this setting. □
3.3 Discussion
Theorem 3.1 shows us that an application can be implemented in a
system with arbitrarily many Byzantine-faulty replicas if and only
if its transactions areI-confluent with respect to its invariants. It
is both a negative (impossibility) and a positive (existence) result.
As an example of impossibility, consider a cryptocurrency, which
must reduce a user’s account balance when a user makes a payment,
and which must ensure that a user does not spend more money
than they have. As we saw in § 2.2, payment transactions from the
same payer are notI-confluent with regard to the account balance
invariant, and thus a cryptocurrency cannot be immune to Sybil
attacks. For this reason, it needs Sybil countermeasures such as
proof-of-work or centrally managed permissions.
On the other hand, many of the CRDT applications listed in § 2.1
only requireI-confluent transactions and invariants. Theorem 3.1
shows that it is possible to implement such applications without
any Sybil countermeasures, because it is possible to ensure BEC and
preserve all invariants regardless of how many Byzantine-faulty
replicas are in the system.
Even in applications that are not fullyI-confluent, our result
shows that theI-confluent portions of the application can be im-
plemented without incurring the costs of Sybil countermeasures,
and a Byzantine consensus algorithm need only be used for those
transactions that are notI-confluent with respect to the applica-
tion’s invariants. For example, an auction could aggregate bids in
anI-confluent manner, and only require consensus to decide the
winning bid. As another example, most of the transactions and
invariants in the TPC-C benchmark areI-confluent [6].
4 BACKGROUND ON BROADCAST
Before we introduce our algorithms for ensuring BEC in § 5, we
first give some additional background and highlight some of the
difficulties of working in a Byzantine system model.
4.1 Reliable, causal, and total order broadcast
We implement BEC replication by first defining abroadcast protocol,
and then layering replication on top of it. Several different forms
of broadcast have been defined in the literature [15], and we now
introduce them briefly. Broadcast protocols are defined in terms
of two primitives, broadcast and deliver. Any replica (or node) in
the system may broadcast a message, and we want all replicas to
deliver messages that were broadcast.
Reliable broadcast must satisfy the following properties:
Self-delivery: If a correct replica𝑝 broadcasts a message𝑚,
then𝑝 eventually delivers𝑚.
Eventual delivery: If a correct replica delivers a message𝑚,
then all correct replicas will eventually deliver𝑚.
Authenticity: If a correct replica delivers a message𝑚 with
sender𝑠, then𝑚 was broadcast by𝑠.
Non-duplication: A correct replica does not deliver the same
message more than once.
Reliable broadcast does not constrain the order in which mes-
sages may be delivered. In many applications the delivery order is
important, so we can strengthen the model. For example,total order
broadcast must satisfy the four properties of reliable broadcast, and
additionally the following property:
Total order: If a correct replica delivers message 𝑚1 before
delivering message𝑚2, then all correct replicas must deliver
𝑚1 before delivering𝑚2.
Total order broadcast ensures that all replicas deliver the same
messages in the same order [22]. It is a very powerful model, since
it can for example implement serializable transactions (by encoding
each transaction as a stored procedure in a message, and executing
them in the order they are delivered at each replica) and state
machine replication [62] (providing linearizable replicated storage).
4

𝑝 𝑞 𝑟
𝐴
M𝑝 ={𝐴}
𝐵
M𝑟 ={𝐵}
Figure 2: Byzantine-faulty replica 𝑞 sends conflicting
messages to correct replicas 𝑝 and𝑟 . The setsM𝑝 and𝑀𝑟
do not converge.
𝑝 𝑞 𝑟
{𝐴}
M𝑝 ={𝐴}
{𝐵}
M𝑟 ={𝐵}
{𝐴}
M′𝑟 ={𝐴,𝐵}
{𝐵}
M′𝑝 ={𝐴,𝐵}
Figure 3: As correct replicas 𝑝 and𝑟 reconcile their sets
of messages, they converge to the same set M′𝑝 =M′𝑟 =
{𝐴,𝐵}.
In a Byzantine system, total order broadcast is implemented
by Byzantine agreement algorithms. An example is a blockchain,
in which the totally ordered chain of blocks corresponds to the
sequence of delivered messages [9]. However, Byzantine agreement
algorithms must assume a maximum number of faulty replicas (see
§ 7), and hence require Sybil countermeasures. To ensure eventual
delivery they must also assume partial synchrony [27].
Causal broadcast [12, 15] must satisfy the four properties of
reliable broadcast, and additionally the following ordering property:
Causal order: If a correct replica broadcasts or delivers 𝑚1
before broadcasting message 𝑚2, then all correct replicas
must deliver𝑚1 before delivering𝑚2.
Causal order is based on the observation that when a replica
broadcasts a message, that message may depend on prior messages
seen by that replica (these are causal dependencies). It then imposes
a partial order on messages: 𝑚1 must be delivered before 𝑚2 if
𝑚2 has a causal dependency on𝑚1. Concurrently sent messages,
which do not depend on each other, can be delivered in any order.
4.2 Naïve broadcast algorithms
The simplest broadcast algorithm is as follows: every time a replica
wants to broadcast a message, it delivers that message to itself, and
also sends that message to each other replica via a pairwise network
link, re-transmitting until it is acknowledged. However, this algo-
rithm does not provide the eventual delivery property in the face of
Byzantine-faulty replicas, as shown in Figure 2: a faulty replica𝑞
may send two different messages𝐴 and𝐵 to correct replicas𝑝 and
𝑟, respectively; then𝑝 never delivers𝐵 and𝑟 never delivers𝐴.
To address this issue, replicas𝑝 and𝑟 must communicate with
each other (either directly, or indirectly via other correct replicas).
LetM𝑝 andM𝑟 be the set of messages delivered by replicas𝑝 and
𝑟, respectively. Then, as shown in Figure 3,𝑝 can send its entire set
M𝑝 to𝑟, and𝑟 can sendM𝑟 to𝑝, so that both replicas can compute
M𝑝∪M 𝑟 , and deliver any new messages. Pairs of replicas can thus
periodically reconcile their sets of delivered messages.
Adding this reconciliation process to the protocol ensures reliable
broadcast. However, this algorithm is very inefficient: when replicas
periodically reconcile their state, we can expect that at the start of
each round of reconciliation their sets of messages already have
many elements in common. Sending the entire set of messages to
each other transmits a large amount of data unnecessarily.
An efficient reconciliation algorithm should determine which
messages have already been delivered by both replicas, and transmit
only those messages that are unknown to the other replica. For ex-
ample, replica𝑝 should only sendM𝑝\M 𝑟 to replica𝑟, and replica
𝑟 should only sendM𝑟\M 𝑝 to replica𝑝. The algorithm should
also complete in a small number of round-trips and minimize the
size of messages sent. These goals rule out other naïve approaches
too: for example, instead of sending all messages inM𝑝, replica𝑝
could send the hash of each message inM𝑝, which can be used by
other replicas to determine which messages they are missing; this
is still inefficient, as the message size is𝑂(|M 𝑝|).
4.3 Vector clocks
Non-Byzantine causal broadcast algorithms often rely on vector
clocks to determine which messages to send to each other, and how
to order them [12, 63]. However, vector clocks are not suitable in
a Byzantine setting. The problem is illustrated in Figure 4, where
faulty replica𝑞 generates two different messages,𝐴 and𝐵, with the
same vector timestamp(0, 1, 0).
In a non-Byzantine system, the three components of the time-
stamp represent the number of distinct messages seen from 𝑝,𝑞,
and𝑟 respectively. Thus,𝑝 and𝑟 should be able to reconcile their
sets of messages by first sending each other their latest vector time-
stamps as a concise summary of the set of messages they have seen.
However, in Figure 4 this approach fails due to 𝑞’s earlier faulty
behavior:𝑝 and𝑟 detect that their vector timestamps are equal,
and thus incorrectly believe that they are in the same state, even
though their sets of messages are different. Thus, vector clocks can
be corrupted by a faulty replica. A causal broadcast algorithm in a
Byzantine system must not be vulnerable to such corruption.
5 ALGORITHMS FOR BEC
We now demonstrate how to implement BEC and therefore preserve
I-confluent invariants in a system with arbitrarily many Byzantine
faults. We begin by first presenting two causal broadcast algorithms
(§ 5.2 and § 5.3), and then defining a replication algorithm on top
(§ 5.5). At the core of our protocol is a reconciliation algorithm
that ensures two replicas have delivered the same set of broadcast
messages, in causal order. The reconciliation is efficient in the sense
that when two correct replicas communicate, they only exchange
broadcast messages that the other replica has not already delivered.
5.1 Definitions
LetM be the set of broadcast messages delivered by some replica.
M is a set of triples(𝑣, hs, sig), where𝑣 is any value, sig is a digital
5

𝑝 𝑞 𝑟
{(0, 1, 0) :𝐴}
vec =(0, 1, 0),M𝑝 ={𝐴}
{(0, 1, 0) :𝐵}
vec =(0, 1, 0),M𝑟 ={𝐵}
(0, 1, 0)
vec =(0, 1, 0),M𝑟 ={𝐵}
(0, 1, 0)
vec =(0, 1, 0),M𝑝 ={𝐴}
Figure 4: Replicas 𝑝 and𝑟 believe they are in the same state because their vector timestamps are the same, when in fact their
sets of messages are inconsistent due to 𝑞’s faulty behavior.
signature over(𝑣, hs) using the sender’s private key, and hs is a
set of hashes produced by a cryptographic hash function𝐻(·). We
assume that𝐻 is collision-resistant, i.e. that it is computationally
infeasible to find distinct 𝑥 and𝑦 such that 𝐻(𝑥) = 𝐻(𝑦). This
assumption is standard in cryptography, and it can easily be met
by using a strong hash function such as SHA-256 [56].
Let𝐴,𝐵 ∈M , where𝐵 =(𝑣, hs, sig) and𝐻(𝐴)∈ hs. Then we
call𝐴 a predecessor of𝐵, and𝐵 a successor of𝐴. Predecessors are
also known as causal dependencies.
Define a graph with a vertex for each message in M, and a
directed edge from each message to each of its predecessors. We
can assume that this graph is acyclic because the presence of a cycle
would imply knowledge of a collision in the hash function. Figure 5
shows examples of such graphs.
Let succ1(M,𝑚) be the set of successors of message 𝑚 inM,
let succ2(M,𝑚) be the successors of the successors of𝑚, and so
on, and let succ∗(M,𝑚) be the transitive closure:
succ𝑖(M,𝑚) =
(
{(𝑣, hs, sig)∈M| 𝐻(𝑚)∈ hs} for𝑖 = 1—
𝑚′∈succ1(M ,𝑚) succ𝑖−1(M,𝑚′) for𝑖 > 1
succ∗(M,𝑚) =
Ø
𝑖≥1
succ𝑖(M,𝑚)
We define the set of predecessors of𝑚 similarly:
pred𝑖(M,𝑚) =
(
{𝑚′∈M| 𝑚 =(𝑣, hs, sig)∧ 𝐻(𝑚′)∈ hs} for𝑖 = 1—
𝑚′∈pred1(M ,𝑚) pred𝑖−1(M,𝑚′) for𝑖 > 1
pred∗(M,𝑚) =
Ø
𝑖≥1
pred𝑖(M,𝑚)
Let heads(M) denote the set of hashes of those messages inM
that have no successors:
heads(M) ={𝐻(𝑚)| 𝑚∈M∧ succ1(M,𝑚) ={}} .
5.2 Algorithm for Byzantine Causal Broadcast
Define a connection to be a logical grouping of a bidirectional se-
quence of related request/response messages between two replicas
(in practice, it can be implemented as a TCP connection). Our re-
conciliation algorithm runs in the context of a connection.
When a correct replica wishes to broadcast a message with value
𝑣, it executes lines 1–10 of Algorithm 1: it constructs a message𝑚
containing the current heads and a signature, delivers𝑚 to itself,
adds𝑚 to the set of locally delivered messages M, and sends𝑚
via all connections. However, this is not sufficient to ensure even-
tual delivery, since some replicas may be disconnected, and faulty
replicas might not correctly follow this protocol.
To ensure eventual delivery, we assume that replicas periodi-
cally attempt to reconnect to each other and reconcile their sets of
messages to discover any missing messages. If two replicas are not
able to connect directly, they can still exchange messages by peri-
odically reconciling with one or more correct intermediary replicas
(as stated in § 2.3, we assume that such intermediaries exist).
We illustrate the operation of the reconciliation algorithm using
the example in Figure 5; the requests/responses sent in the course of
the execution are shown in Figure 6. Initially, when a connection is
established between two replicas, they send each other their heads
(Algorithm 1, line 15). In the example of Figure 5,𝑝 sends⟨heads :
{𝐻(𝐸),𝐻(𝑀)}⟩ to𝑞, while𝑞 sends⟨heads :{𝐻(𝐺),𝐻(𝐾)}⟩ to𝑝.
Each replica also initializes variables sent and recvd to contain
the set of messages sent to/received from the other replica within
the scope of this particular connection, missing to contain the set
of hashes for which we currently lack a message, and Mconn to
contain a read-only snapshot of this replica’s set of messagesM
at the time the connection is established (line 14). In practice, this
snapshot can be implemented using snapshot isolation [10].
A replica may concurrently execute several instances of this
algorithm using several connections; each connection then has a
separate copy of the variables sent, recvd, missing, andMconn,
whileM is a global variable that is shared between all connections.
Each connection thread executes independently, except for the
blocks marked atomically, which are executed only by one thread
at a time on a given replica.M should be maintained in durable
storage, while the other variables may be lost in case of a crash.
On receiving the heads from the other replica (line 18), the re-
cipient checks whether the recipient’sMconn contains a matching
message for each hash. If any hashes are unknown, it replies with a
needs request for the messages matching those hashes (lines 19 and
47). In our running example, 𝑝 needs𝐻(𝐺), while𝑞 needs𝐻(𝐸)
and𝐻(𝑀). A replica responds to such aneeds request by returning
all the matching messages in amsgs response (lines 29–33).
On receivingmsgs, we first discard any broadcast messages that
are not correctly signed (line 23): the function check(𝑚,𝑠) returns
true if𝑠 is a valid signature over message𝑚 by a legitimate replica in
the system, and false otherwise. For each correctly signed message
we then inspect the hashes. If any predecessor hashes do not resolve
to a known message inMconn or recvd, the replica sends another
6

Algorithm 1 A Byzantine causal broadcast algorithm.
1: on request to broadcast𝑣 do
2: hs := heads(M)
3: sig := signature over(𝑣, hs) using this replica’s private key
4: 𝑚 :=(𝑣, hs, sig)
5: atomically do
6: deliver𝑚 to self
7: M :=M∪{ 𝑚}
8: end atomic
9: send⟨msgs :{𝑚}⟩ via all active connections
10: end on
11:
12: on connecting to another replica, and periodically do
13: // connection-local variables
14: sent :={}; recvd :={}; missing :={};Mconn :=M
15: send⟨heads : heads(Mconn)⟩ via current connection
16: end on
17:
18: on receiving⟨heads : hs⟩ via a connection do
19: HandleMissing({ℎ∈ hs|𝑚∈M conn.𝐻(𝑚) =ℎ})
20: end on
21:
22: on receiving⟨msgs : new⟩ via a connection do
23: recvd := recvd∪{( 𝑣, hs, sig)∈ new| check((𝑣, hs), sig)}
24: unresolved :={ℎ|∃( 𝑣, hs, sig)∈ recvd.ℎ ∈ hs∧
25: 𝑚∈(M conn∪ recvd).𝐻(𝑚) =ℎ}
26: HandleMissing(unresolved)
27: end on
28:
29: on receiving⟨needs : hashes⟩ via a connection do
30: reply :={𝑚∈M conn|𝐻(𝑚)∈ hashes∧ 𝑚 ∉ sent}
31: sent := sent∪ reply
32: send⟨msgs : reply⟩ via current connection
33: end on
34:
35: function HandleMissing(hashes)
36: missing :=(missing∪ hashes)\{ 𝐻(𝑚)| 𝑚∈ recvd}
37: if missing ={} then
38: atomically do
39: msgs := recvd\M
40: M :=M∪ recvd
41: deliver all of the messages in msgs
42: in topologically sorted order
43: end atomic
44: send⟨msgs : msgs⟩ via all other connections
45: reconciliation complete
46: else
47: send⟨needs : missing⟩ via current connection
48: end if
49: end function
𝐴 𝐵
𝐶 𝐷 𝐸
𝐽 𝐾 𝐿 𝑀
(a) Messages at 𝑝 before reconciliation.
𝐴 𝐵
𝐹 𝐺
𝐽 𝐾
(b) Messages at 𝑞 before reconciliation.
𝐴 𝐵
𝐶 𝐷 𝐸
𝐽 𝐾 𝐿 𝑀
𝐹 𝐺
(c) Messages at 𝑝 and 𝑞 after reconciliation.
Figure 5: Example DAGs of delivered messages. Arrows rep-
resent a message referencing the hash of its predecessor, and
heads (messages with no successors) are marked with cir-
cles.
𝑝 𝑞
⟨heads :{𝐻(𝐸),𝐻(𝑀)}⟩ ⟨heads :{𝐻(𝐺),𝐻(𝐾)}⟩
⟨needs :{𝐻(𝐸),𝐻(𝑀)}⟩⟨needs :{𝐻(𝐺)}⟩
⟨msgs :{𝐸,𝑀}⟩ ⟨msgs :{𝐺}⟩
⟨needs :{𝐻(𝐷),𝐻(𝐿)}⟨needs :{𝐻(𝐹)}⟩
⟨msgs :{𝐷,𝐿}⟩ ⟨msgs :{𝐹}⟩
reconciliation complete
⟨needs :{𝐻(𝐶)}
⟨msgs :{𝐶}⟩
reconciliation complete
Figure 6: Requests/responses sent in the course of running
the reconciliation process in Algorithm 1 with the example
in Figure 5.
7

Algorithm 2 Optimizing Algorithm 1 to reduce the number of round-trips.
1: on connecting to replica𝑞, and periodically do ⊲ Replaces lines 12–16 of Algorithm 1
2: sent :={}; recvd :={}; missing :={};Mconn :=M ⊲ connection-local variables
3: oldHeads := LoadHeads(𝑞)
4: filter := MakeBloomFilter(MessagesSince(oldHeads))
5: send⟨heads : heads(Mconn), oldHeads : oldHeads, filter : filter⟩
6: end on
7:
8: on receiving⟨heads : hs, oldHeads : oldHeads, filter : filter⟩ do ⊲ Replaces lines 18–20
9: bloomNegative :={𝑚∈ MessagesSince(oldHeads)|¬ BloomMember(filter,𝑚)}
10: reply :=

bloomNegative∪ —
𝑚∈bloomNegative succ∗(Mconn,𝑚)

\ sent
11: if reply ≠{} then
12: sent := sent∪ reply
13: send⟨msgs : reply⟩
14: end if
15: HandleMissing({ℎ∈ hs|𝑚∈M conn.𝐻(𝑚) =ℎ})
16: end on
17:
18: function MessagesSince(oldHeads)
19: known :={𝑚∈M conn|𝐻(𝑚)∈ oldHeads}
20: returnMconn\(known∪ —
𝑚∈known pred∗(Mconn,𝑚))
21: end function
needs request with those hashes (lines 24–26). In successive rounds
of this protocol, the replicas work their way from the heads along
the paths of predecessors, until they reach the common ancestors
of both replicas’ heads.
Eventually, when there are no unresolved hashes, we update the
global setM to reflect the messages we have delivered, perform
a topological sort of the graph of received messages to put them
in causal order, deliver them to the application in that order, and
conclude the protocol run (lines 37–45). Once a replica completes
reconciliation (by reaching line 45), it can conclude that its cur-
rent set of delivered messages is a superset of the set of delivered
messages on the other replica at the start of reconciliation.
When a message𝑚 is broadcast, it is also sent as⟨msgs :{𝑚}⟩
on line 9, and the recipient treats it the same as msgs received
during reconciliation (lines 22–27). Sending messages in this way is
not strictly necessary, as the periodic reconciliations will eventually
deliver such messages, but broadcasting them eagerly can reduce
latency. Moreover, when a recipient delivers messages, it may also
choose to eagerly relay them to other replicas it is connected to,
without waiting for the next reconciliation (line 44); this also re-
duces latency, but may result in a replica redundantly receiving
messages that it already has. The literature on gossip protocols
examines in detail the question of when replicas should forward
messages they receive [38], while considering trade-offs of delivery
latency and bandwidth use; we leave a detailed discussion out of
scope for this paper.
We prove in Appendix A that this algorithm implements all five
properties of causal broadcast. Even though Byzantine-faulty repli-
cas may send arbitrarily malformed messages, a correct replica will
not deliver messages without a complete predecessor graph. Any
messages delivered by one correct replica will eventually reach
every other correct replica through reconciliations. After recon-
ciliation, both replicas have delivered the same set of messages.
5.3 Reducing the number of round trips
A downside of Algorithm 1 is that the number of round trips can
be up to the length of the longest path in the predecessor graph,
making it slow when performing reconciliation over a high-latency
network. We now show how to reduce the number of round-trips
using Bloom filters [13] and a small amount of additional state.
Note that Algorithm 1 does not store any information about the
outcome of the last reconciliation with a particular replica; if two
replicas periodically reconcile their states, they need to discover
each other’s state from scratch on every protocol run. As per § 2.3
we assume that communication between replicas is authenticated,
and thus a replica knows the identity of the other replica it is
communicating with. We can therefore record the outcome of a
protocol run with a particular replica, and use that information in
the next reconciliation with the same replica. We do this by adding
the following instruction after line 40 of Algorithm 1, where𝑞 is
the identity of the current connection’s remote replica:
StoreHeads(𝑞, heads(Mconn∪ recvd))
which updates a key-value store in durable storage, associating
the value heads(Mconn∪ recvd) with the key𝑞 (overwriting any
previous value for that key if appropriate). We use this informa-
tion in Algorithm 2, which replaces the “on connecting” and “on
receiving heads” functions of Algorithm 1, while leaving the rest
of Algorithm 1 unchanged.
First, when replica𝑝 establishes a connection with replica𝑞,𝑝
calls LoadHeads(𝑞) to load the heads from the previous reconcilia-
tion with 𝑞 from the key-value store (Algorithm 2, line 3). This
8

function returns the empty set if this is the first reconciliation with
𝑞. In Figure 5, the previous reconciliation heads might be{𝐻(𝐵)}.
In lines 18–21 of Algorithm 2 we find all of the delivered mes-
sages that were added toM since this last reconciliation (i.e. all
messages that are not among the last reconciliation’s heads or their
predecessors), and on line 4 we construct a Bloom filter [13] contain-
ing those messages. A Bloom filter is a space-efficient data structure
for testing set membership. It is an array of𝑚 bits that is initially
all zero; in order to indicate that a certain element is in the set, we
choose𝑘 bits to set to 1 based on the hash of the element. To test
whether an element is in the set, we check whether all 𝑘 bits for
the hash of that element are set to 1; if so, we say that the element
is in the set. This procedure may produce false positives because it
is possible that all𝑘 bits were set to 1 due to different elements, not
due to the element being checked. The false-positive probability is
a function of the number of elements in the set, the number of bits
𝑚, and the number of bits𝑘 that we set per element [13, 14, 19].
We assume MakeBloomFilter(𝑆) creates a Bloom filter from
set𝑆 and BloomMember(𝐹,𝑠) tests if the element𝑠 is a member of
the Bloom filter𝐹. In the example of Figure 5,𝑝’s Bloom filter would
contain{𝐶,𝐷,𝐸,𝐽,𝐾,𝐿,𝑀 }, while𝑞’s filter contains{𝐹,𝐺,𝐽,𝐾 }. We
send this Bloom filter to the other replica, along with the heads
(Algorithm 2, lines 4–5).
On receiving the heads and Bloom filter, we identify any mes-
sages that were added since the last reconciliation that are not
present in the Bloom filter’s membership check (line 9). In the ex-
ample,𝑞 looks up{𝐹,𝐺,𝐽,𝐾 } in the Bloom filter received from𝑝;
BloomMember returns true for𝐽 and𝐾. BloomMember is likely to
return false for𝐹 and𝐺, but may return true due to a false positive.
In this example, we assume that BloomMember returns false for𝐹
and true for𝐺 (a false positive in the case of𝐺).
Any Bloom-negative messages are definitely unknown to the
other replica, so we send those in reply. Moreover, we also send any
successors of Bloom-negative messages (line 10): since the setM
for a correct replica cannot contain messages whose predecessors
are missing, we know that these messages must also be missing
from the other replica. In the example,𝑞 sends⟨msgs :{𝐹,𝐺}⟩ to
𝑝, because𝐹 is Bloom-negative and𝐺 is a successor of𝐹.
Due to Bloom filter false positives, the set of messages in the
reply on line 13 may be incomplete, but it is likely to contain most
of the messages that the other replica is lacking. To fill in the
remaining missing messages we revert back to Algorithm 1, and
perform round trips of needs requests and msgs responses until
the received set of messages is complete.
The size of the Bloom filter can be chosen dynamically based
on the number of elements it contains. Note that the Bloom filter
reflects only messages that were added since the last reconciliation
with𝑞, not all messagesM. Thus, if the reconciliations are frequent,
they can employ a small Bloom filter size to minimize the cost.
This optimized algorithm also tolerates Byzantine faults. For
example, a faulty replica may send a correct replica an arbitrarily
corrupted Bloom filter, but this only changes the set of messages
in the reply from the correct replica, and has no effect on M at
the correct replica. We formally analyze the correctness of this
algorithm in Appendix A.
5.4 Discussion
One further optimization could be added to our algorithms: on
receiving the other replica’s heads, a replica can check whether it
has any successors of those heads. If so, those successors can imme-
diately be sent to the other replica (Git calls this a “fast-forward”).
If neither replica’s heads are known to the other (i.e. their histories
have diverged), they fall back to the aforementioned algorithm.
We have omitted this optimization from our algorithms because
we found that it did not noticeably improve the performance of
Algorithm 2, and so it was not worth the additional complexity.
A potential issue with Algorithms 1 and 2 is the unbounded
growth of storage requirements, since the setM grows monotoni-
cally (much like most algorithms for Byzantine agreement, which
produce an append-only log without considering how that log
might be truncated). If the set of replicas in the system is known,
we can truncate history as follows: once every replica has delivered
a message𝑚 (i.e.𝑚 is stable [12]), the algorithm no longer needs to
refer to any of the predecessors of𝑚, and so all of those predeces-
sors can be safely removed fromM without affecting the algorithm.
Stability can be determined by keeping track of the latest heads for
each replica, and propagating this information between replicas.
When one of the communicating replicas is Byzantine-faulty,
the reconciliation algorithm may never terminate, e.g. because the
faulty replica may send hashes that do not resolve to any message,
and so the state missing ={} is never reached. However, in a non-
terminating protocol run no messages are delivered andM is never
updated, and so the actions of the faulty replica have no effect on
the state of the correct replica. Reconciliations with other replicas
are unaffected, since replicas may perform multiple reconciliations
concurrently.
In a protocol run that terminates, the only possible protocol
violations from a Byzantine-faulty replica are to omit heads, or
to extend the set M with well-formed messages (i.e. messages
containing only hashes that resolve to other messages, signed with
the private key of one of the replicas in the system). Any omitted
messages will eventually be received through reconciliations with
other correct replicas, and any added messages will be forwarded to
other replicas; either way, the eventual delivery property of causal
broadcast is preserved.
Arbitrary needs requests sent by a faulty replica do not affect
the state of the recipient. Thus, a faulty replica cannot corrupt the
state of a correct replica in a way that would prevent it from later
reconciling with another correct replica.
If one of the replicas crashes, both replicas abort the reconcilia-
tion and no messages are delivered. The next reconciliation attempt
then starts afresh. (If desired, it would not be difficult to modify the
algorithm so that an in-progress reconciliation can be restarted.)
Note that it is possible for one replica to complete reconciliation
and to deliver its new messages while the other replica crashes
just before reaching this point. Thus, when we load the heads from
the previous reconciliation on line 3 of Algorithm 2, the local and
the remote replica’s oldHeads may differ. This does not affect the
correctness of the algorithm.
9

Table 1: Determining safety of updates with respect to different types of invariant
Invariant Update is unsafe if it. . .
Row-level check constraint Inserts/updates tuple with a value that violates the check
Attribute has non-negative value Subtracts a positive amount from the value of that attribute
Foreign key constraint Deletes a tuple from the constraint’s target relation
Uniqueness of an attribute Inserts tuple with user-chosen value of that attribute (may be safe if the value is
determined by the hash of the message containing the update)
Value is materialized view of a query All updates are safe, provided materialized view is updated after applying updates
Algorithm 3 BEC database replication using causal broadcast.
1: on commit of local transaction𝑇 do
2: let(ins, del) := GeneratedUpdates(𝑇)
3: broadcast(ins, del) by causal broadcast
4: end on
5:
6: on delivering𝑚 by causal broadcast do
7: let((ins, del), hs, sig) :=𝑚
8: if updates(ins, del) are safe w.r.t. all invariants and
9: ∀(ℎ,𝑟,𝑡)∈ del.ℎ ∈{ 𝐻(𝑚′)| 𝑚′∈ pred∗(M,𝑚)} then
10: 𝑆 :=𝑆\ del∪{( 𝐻(𝑚), rel, tuple)|( rel, tuple)∈ ins}
11: end if
12: end on
5.5 BEC replication using causal broadcast
Given the Byzantine causal broadcast protocol we have defined,
we now introduce a replication algorithm that ensures Byzantine
Eventual Consistency, assumingI-confluence. The details depend
on the data model of the database being replicated, and the types
of updates allowed. Algorithm 3 shows an approach for a relational
database that supports insertion and deletion of tuples in unordered
relations (updates are performed by deletion and re-insertion).
Let each replica have state𝑆, which is stored durably, and which
is initially the empty set. 𝑆 is a set of triples: (ℎ, rel, tuple) ∈𝑆
means the relation named rel contains the tuple tuple, and that
tuple was inserted by a message whose hash isℎ. We assume the
schema of tuple is known to the application, and we ignore DDL
in this example. Our algorithm gives each replica a full copy of the
database𝑆; sharding/partitioning could be added if required.
When a transaction𝑇 executes, we allow it to read the current
state of 𝑆 at the local replica. When 𝑇 commits, we assume the
function GeneratedUpdates(𝑇) returns the inserts and deletions
performed in𝑇 . Insertions are represented as pairs of(rel, tuple)
indicating the insertion of tuple into the relation named rel. Dele-
tions are represented by the(ℎ, rel, tuple) triple to be deleted. We
encode these updates as a message and disseminate it to the other
replicas via Byzantine causal broadcast.
When a message is delivered by causal broadcast (including self-
delivery to the replica that sent the message), we first check on
line 8 of Algorithm 3 whether the updates are safe with regard to
all of the invariants in the application. An update is unsafe if ap-
plying that update could cause the set of transactions to no longer
beI-confluent with regard to a particular invariant. For example,
a deletion of a tuple in a particular relation is unsafe if there is a
referential integrity invariant enforcing a foreign key constraint
whose target is that relation, because a different transaction could
concurrently insert a tuple that has a foreign key reference to the
deleted tuple, leading to a constraint violation. Rules for determin-
ing safety for various common types of invariant are described in
Table 1; for a deeper analysis of theI-confluence of different types
of constraint, see the extended version of Bailis et al. ’s paper [7].
Note that safety can be determined as a function of only the updates
and the invariants, without depending on the current replica state.
The check for safety at the time of delivering a message is necessary
because even if we assume that correct replicas only generate safe
updates, faulty replicas may generate unsafe updates, which must
be ignored by correct replicas.
In addition to checking safety, we check on line 9 that any dele-
tions in the message𝑚 are for tuples that were inserted by a message
that causally precedes𝑚. This ensures that the insertion is applied
before the deletion on all replicas, which is necessary to ensure
convergence. If these conditions are met, we apply the updates to
the replica state𝑆 on line 10. We remove any deleted tuples, and
we augment any insertions with the hash of the message. This en-
sures that subsequent deletions can unambiguously reference the
element of𝑆 to be deleted, even if multiple replicas concurrently
insert the same tuple into the same relation.
We prove in Appendix B that this algorithm ensures Byzantine
Eventual Consistency. This algorithm could be extended with other
operations besides insertion and deletion: for example, it might
be useful to support an operation that adds a (possibly negative)
value to a numeric attribute; such an operation would commute
trivially with other operations of the same type, allowing several
concurrent updates to a numeric value (e.g. an account balance) to
10

be merged. Further data models and operations can be implemented
using CRDT techniques (§ 2.1).
6 EV ALUATION
To evaluate the algorithms introduced in § 5 we implemented a
prototype and measured its behavior.2 Our prototype runs all repli-
cas in-memory in a single process, simulating a message-passing
network and recording statistics such as the number of messages,
hashes, and Bloom filter bits transmitted, in order to measure the
algorithm’s network communication costs. In our experiments we
use four replicas, each replica generating updates at a constant rate,
and every pair of replicas periodically reconciles their states. We
then vary the intervals at which reconciliations are performed (with
longer intervals, more updates accumulate between reconciliations)
and measure the network communication cost of performing the
reconciliation. To ensure we exercise the reconciliation algorithm,
replicas do not eagerly send messages (lines 9 and 44 of Algorithm 1
are omitted), and we rely only on periodic reconciliation to ex-
change messages. For each of the following data points we compute
the average over 600 reconciliations (100 reconciliations between
each distinct pair of replicas) performed at regular intervals.
First, we measure the average number of round-trips required to
complete one reconciliation (Figure 7 left). The greater the number
of updates generated between reconciliations, the longer the paths
in the predecessor graph. Therefore, when Algorithm 1 is used, the
number of round trips increases linearly with the number of updates
added. However, Algorithm 2 reduces each reconciliation to 1.03
round trips on average, and this number remains constant as the
number of updates grows. 96.7% of reconciliations with Algorithm 2
complete in one round trip, 3.2% require two round trips, and 0.04%
require three or more round trips. These figures are based on using
Bloom filters with 10 bits per entry and 7 hash functions.
Next, we estimate the network traffic resulting from the use
of our algorithms. For this, we assume that each update is 200
bytes in size (not counting its predecessor hashes), hashes are 32
bytes in size (SHA-256), and Bloom filters use 10 bits per element.
Moreover, we assume that each request or response message incurs
an additional constant overhead of 100 bytes (e.g. for TCP/IP packet
headers and signatures). We compute the number of kilobytes sent
per reconciliation (in both directions) using each algorithm.
Figure 7 (right) shows the results from this experiment. The gray
line represents a hypothetical optimal algorithm that transmits
only new messages, but no additional metadata such as hashes or
Bloom filters. Compared to this optimum, Algorithm 2 incurs a
near-constant overhead of approximately 1 kB per reconciliation
for the heads and predecessor hashes, Bloom filter, and occasional
additional round trips. In contrast, the cost of Algorithm 1 is more
than double the optimal, primarily because it sends many needs
messages containing hashes, and it sends messages in many small
responses rather than batched into one response. Thus, we can
see that in terms of network performance, Algorithm 2 is close to
the optimum in terms of both round trips and bytes transmitted,
making it viable for use in practice.
In our prototype, all replicas correctly follow the protocol. Adding
faulty replicas may alter the shape of the predecessor graph (e.g.
2Source code available at https://github.com/ept/byzantine-eventual
resulting in more concurrent updates than there are replicas), but
we believe that this would not fundamentally alter our results. We
leave an evaluation of other metrics (e.g. CPU or memory use) for
future work.
7 RELATED WORK
Hash chaining is widely used: in Git repositories [ 57], Merkle
trees [52], blockchains [9], and peer-to-peer storage systems such
as IPLD [60]. Our Algorithm 1 has similarities to the protocol used
by git fetch and git push ; to reduce the number of round trips,
Git’s “smart” transfer protocol sends the most recent 32 hashes
rather than just the heads [57]. Git also supports an experimental
“skipping” reconciliation algorithm [ 70] in which the search for
common ancestors skips some vertices in the predecessor graph,
with exponentially growing skip sizes; this algorithm ensures a
logarithmic number of round-trips, but may end up unnecessar-
ily transmitting commits that the recipient already has. Other au-
thors [8, 33] also discuss replicated hash graphs but do not present
efficient reconciliation algorithms for bringing replicas up-to-date.
Byzantine agreement has been the subject of extensive research
and has seen a recent renewal of interest due to its application
in blockchains [9]. To tolerate𝑓 faults, Byzantine agreement algo-
rithms typically require3𝑓+1 replicas [11, 17, 36], and some even re-
quire 5𝑓+1 replicas [1, 50]. This bound can be lowered, for example,
to 2𝑓+ 1 if synchrony and digital signatures are assumed [2]. Most
algorithms also require at least one round of communication with at
least 2𝑓+ 1 replicas, incurring both significant latency and limiting
availability. Some algorithms instead take a different approach to
bounding the number of failures: for example, Upright [ 20] sep-
arates the number of crash failures (𝑢) and Byzantine failures (𝑟)
and uses 2𝑢+𝑟+ 1 replicas. Byzantine quorum systems [48] gen-
eralize from a threshold 𝑓 of failures to a set of possible failures.
Zeno [68] makes progress with just 𝑓+ 1 replicas, but safety de-
pends on less than 1
3 of replicas being Byzantine-faulty. Previous
work on Byzantine fault tolerant CRDTs [18, 66, 80], Secure Reli-
able Multicast [47, 49], Secure Causal Atomic Broadcast [ 16, 26]
and Byzantine Lattice Agreement [23] also assumes 3𝑓+ 1 repli-
cas. All of these algorithms require Sybil countermeasures, such as
central control over the participating replicas’ identities; moreover,
many algorithms ignore the problem of reconfiguring the system
to change the set of replicas.
Little prior work tolerates arbitrary numbers of Byzantine-faulty
replicas. Depot [46] and OldBlue [74] provide causal broadcast in
this model: OldBlue’s algorithm is similar to our Algorithm 1, while
Depot uses a more complex replication algorithm involving a com-
bination of logical clocks and hash chains to detect and recover
from inconsistencies. We were not able to compare our algorithms
to Depot because the available publications [43, 45, 46] do not de-
scribe Depot’s algorithm in sufficient detail to reproduce it. Depot’s
consistency model (fork-join-causal) is specific to a key-value data
model, and unlike BEC it does not consider the problem of main-
taining invariants. Mahajan et al. have also shown that no system
that tolerates Byzantine failures can enforce fork causal [ 46] or
stronger consistency in an always available, one-way convergent
system [44]. BEC provides a weaker two-way convergence prop-
erty, which requires that eventually a correct replica’s updates are
11

 0
 5
 10
 15
 20
 25
 30
 35
 40
 0  10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80  90  100
Average round trips per reconciliation
Number of updates since last reconciliation
Algorithm 1
Algorithm 2
 0
 5
 10
 15
 20
 25
 30
 35
 40
 45
 0  10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80  90  100
kB transmitted per reconciliation
Number of updates since last reconciliation
Algorithm 1
Algorithm 2
Optimal
Figure 7: Results from the evaluation of our prototype. Left: number of round trips to complete a reconciliation; right: network
bandwidth used per reconciliation (lower is better).
reflected on another correct replica only if they can bidirectionally
exchange messages for a sufficient period.
Recent work by van der Linde et al. [40] also considers causally
consistent replication in the face of Byzantine faults, taking a very
different approach to ours: detecting cryptographic proof of faulty
behavior, and banning replicas found to be misbehaving. This ap-
proach relies on a trusted central server and trusted hardware such
as SGX, whereas we do not assume any trusted components.
In SPORC [29], BFT2F [39] and SUNDR [51], a faulty replica can
partition the system, preventing some replicas from ever synchro-
nizing again, so these systems do not satisfy the eventual update
property of BEC. Drabkin et al. [25] present an algorithm for Byzan-
tine reliable broadcast, but it does not provide causal ordering.
Our reconciliation algorithm is related to the problem of comput-
ing the difference, union, or intersection between sets on remote
replicas. This problem has been studied in various domains, in-
cluding peer-to-peer systems, deduplication of backups, and error-
correction. Approaches include using Bloom filters [69], invertible
Bloom filters [28, 31] and polynomial encoding [53]. However, these
approaches are not designed to tolerate Byzantine faults.
I-confluence was introduced by Bailis et al. [6] in the context of
non-Byzantine systems. It is closely related to the concept of logical
monotonicity [21] and the CALM theorem [ 5, 32], which states
that coordination can be avoided for programs that are monotonic.
COPS [41] is an example of a non-Byzantine system that achieves
causal consistency while avoiding coordination, and BEC is a Byzan-
tine variant of COPS’s Causal+ consistency model. Non-Byzantine
causal broadcast was introduced by the ISIS system [12].
8 CONCLUSIONS
Many peer-to-peer systems tolerate only a bounded number of
Byzantine-faulty nodes, and therefore need to employ expensive
countermeasures against Sybil attacks, such as proof-of-work, or
centrally controlled permissions for joining the system. In this work
we asked the question: what are the limits of what we can achieve
without introducing Sybil countermeasures? In other words, which
applications can tolerate arbitrary numbers of Byzantine faults?
We have answered this question with both a positive and a
negative result. Our positive result is an algorithm that achieves
Byzantine Eventual Consistency in such a system, provided that
the application’s transactions areI-confluent with regard to its
invariants. Our negative result is an impossibility proof showing
that such an algorithm does not exist if the application is not I-
confluent. We proved our algorithms correct, and demonstrated
that our optimized algorithm incurs only a small network commu-
nication overhead compared to the theoretical optimum, making it
immediately applicable in practice.
As shown in § 2.1, many existing systems and applications use
CRDTs to achieve strong eventual consistency in a non-Byzantine
model. These applications are alreadyI-confluent, and adopting
our approach will allow those systems to gain robustness against
Byzantine faults. For systems that currently require all nodes to
be trusted, and hence can only be deployed in trusted datacenter
networks, adding Byzantine fault tolerance opens up new opportu-
nities for deployment in untrusted peer-to-peer settings.
We hope that BEC will inspire further research to ensure the
correctness of data systems in the presence of arbitrary numbers
of Byzantine faults. Some open questions include:
• How can we best ensure that correct replicas form a con-
nected component, as assumed in § 2.3? Connecting each
replica to every other is the simplest solution, but it can be
expensive if the number of replicas is large.
• How can we formalize Table 1, i.e. the process of checking
whether an update is safe with regard to an invariant?
• Is it generally true that a problem can be solved without
coordination in a non-Byzantine system if and only if it is
immune to Sybil attacks in a Byzantine context?
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Thank you to Alastair Beresford, Jon Crowcroft, Srinivasan Keshav,
Smita Vijaya Kumar and Gavin Stark for feedback on a draft of this
paper. Martin Kleppmann is supported by a Leverhulme Trust Early
12

Career Fellowship, the Isaac Newton Trust, and Nokia Bell Labs.
This work was funded in part by EP/T022493/1.
REFERENCES
[1] Michael Abd-El-Malek, Gregory R. Ganger, Garth R. Goodson, Michael K. Reiter,
and Jay J. Wylie. 2005. Fault-Scalable Byzantine Fault-Tolerant Services. SIGOPS
Operating Systems Review 39, 5 (Oct. 2005), 59–74. https://doi.org/10.1145/
1095809.1095817
[2] Ittai Abraham, Srinivas Devadas, Danny Dolev, Kartik Nayak, and Ling Ren. 2017.
Efficient Synchronous Byzantine Consensus. arXiv (Sept. 2017). arXiv:1704.02397
https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.02397
[3] Atul Adya, Barbara Liskov, and Patrick O’Neil. 2000. Generalized isolation level
definitions. In 16th International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE 2000) .
67–78. https://doi.org/10.1109/icde.2000.839388
[4] Deepthi Devaki Akkoorath, Alejandro Z. Tomsic, Manuel Bravo, Zhongmiao Li,
Tyler Crain, Annette Bieniusa, Nuno Preguiça, and Marc Shapiro. 2016. Cure:
Strong Semantics Meets High Availability and Low Latency. In36th IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS 2016) . IEEE, 405–414.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICDCS.2016.98
[5] Tom J. Ameloot, Frank Neven, and Jan Van Den Bussche. 2013. Relational
Transducers for Declarative Networking. J. ACM 60, 2, Article 15 (May 2013).
https://doi.org/10.1145/2450142.2450151
[6] Peter Bailis, Alan Fekete, Michael J Franklin, Ali Ghodsi, Joseph M Hellerstein,
and Ion Stoica. 2014. Coordination avoidance in database systems. Proceedings of
the VLDB Endowment 8, 3 (Nov. 2014), 185–196. https://doi.org/10.14778/2735508.
2735509
[7] Peter Bailis, Alan Fekete, Michael J Franklin, Ali Ghodsi, Joseph M Hellerstein,
and Ion Stoica. 2014. Coordination Avoidance in Database Systems (Extended
Version). arXiv (Oct. 2014). arXiv:1402.2237 https://arxiv.org/abs/1402.2237
[8] Leemon Baird. 2016. The Swirlds hashgraph consensus algorithm: Fair, fast, Byzan-
tine fault tolerance. Technical Report TR-2016-01. Swirlds. https://www.swirlds.
com/downloads/SWIRLDS-TR-2016-01.pdf
[9] Shehar Bano, Alberto Sonnino, Mustafa Al-Bassam, Sarah Azouvi, Patrick Mc-
Corry, Sarah Meiklejohn, and George Danezis. 2019. SoK: Consensus in the Age
of Blockchains. In 1st ACM Conference on Advances in Financial Technologies (AFT
2019). ACM, 183–198. https://doi.org/10.1145/3318041.3355458
[10] Hal Berenson, Philip A Bernstein, Jim N Gray, Jim Melton, Elizabeth O’Neil, and
Patrick O’Neil. 1995. A critique of ANSI SQL isolation levels. ACM SIGMOD
Record 24, 2 (May 1995), 1–10. https://doi.org/10.1145/568271.223785
[11] Alysson Bessani, João Sousa, and Eduardo E. P. Alchieri. 2014. State Machine
Replication for the Masses with BFT-SMART. In 44th Annual IEEE/IFIP Interna-
tional Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN 2014) . IEEE, 355–362.
https://doi.org/10.1109/DSN.2014.43
[12] Kenneth Birman, André Schiper, and Pat Stephenson. 1991. Lightweight causal
and atomic group multicast. ACM Transactions on Computer Systems 9, 3 (Aug.
1991), 272–314. https://doi.org/10.1145/128738.128742
[13] Burton H. Bloom. 1970. Space/Time Trade-Offs in Hash Coding with Allowable
Errors. Commun. ACM 13, 7 (July 1970), 422–426. https://doi.org/10.1145/362686.
362692
[14] Prosenjit Bose, Hua Guo, Evangelos Kranakis, Anil Maheshwari, Pat Morin,
Jason Morrison, Michiel Smid, and Yihui Tang. 2008. On the False-Positive
Rate of Bloom Filters. Inf. Process. Lett. 108, 4 (Oct. 2008), 210–213. https:
//doi.org/10.1016/j.ipl.2008.05.018
[15] Christian Cachin, Rachid Guerraoui, and Luís Rodrigues. 2011. Introduction to
Reliable and Secure Distributed Programming (second ed.). Springer.
[16] Christian Cachin, Klaus Kursawe, Frank Petzold, and Victor Shoup. 2001. Secure
and Efficient Asynchronous Broadcast Protocols. In 21st Annual International
Cryptology Conference (CRYPTO 2001) . Springer, 524–541. https://doi.org/10.
1007/3-540-44647-8_31
[17] Miguel Castro and Barbara Liskov. 1999. Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance.
In 3rd Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 1999) .
USENIX Association, 173–186.
[18] Hua Chai and Wenbing Zhao. 2014. Byzantine Fault Tolerance for Services
with Commutative Operations. In 2014 IEEE International Conference on Services
Computing (SCC 2014) . IEEE, 219–226. https://doi.org/10.1109/SCC.2014.37
[19] Ken Christensen, Allen Roginsky, and Miguel Jimeno. 2010. A New Analysis of
the False Positive Rate of a Bloom Filter. Inf. Process. Lett. 110, 21 (Oct. 2010),
944–949. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipl.2010.07.024
[20] Allen Clement, Manos Kapritsos, Sangmin Lee, Yang Wang, Lorenzo Alvisi,
Mike Dahlin, and Taylor Riche. 2009. Upright Cluster Services. In 22nd ACM
SIGOPS Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP 2009) . ACM, 277–290.
https://doi.org/10.1145/1629575.1629602
[21] Neil Conway, William R. Marczak, Peter Alvaro, Joseph M. Hellerstein, and
David Maier. 2012. Logic and Lattices for Distributed Programming. In 3rd ACM
Symposium on Cloud Computing (SoCC 2012) . 1–14. https://doi.org/10.1145/
2391229.2391230
[22] Xavier Défago, André Schiper, and Péter Urbán. 2004. Total order broadcast and
multicast algorithms: Taxonomy and survey. Comput. Surveys 36, 4 (Dec. 2004),
372–421. https://doi.org/10.1145/1041680.1041682
[23] Giuseppe Antonio Di Luna, Emmanuelle Anceaume, and Leonardo Querzoni.
2020. Byzantine Generalized Lattice Agreement. In IEEE International Parallel
and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS 2020) . IEEE, 674–683. https://doi.
org/10.1109/IPDPS47924.2020.00075
[24] John R. Douceur. 2002. The Sybil Attack. InInternational Workshop on Peer-to-Peer
Systems (IPTPS 2002). Springer, 251–260. https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45748-
8_24
[25] Vadim Drabkin, Roy Friedman, and Marc Segal. 2005. Efficient Byzantine Broad-
cast in Wireless Ad-Hoc Networks. In Proceedings of the 2005 International Con-
ference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN ’05) . IEEE Computer Society,
USA, 160–169. https://doi.org/10.1109/DSN.2005.42
[26] Sisi Duan, Michael K. Reiter, and Haibin Zhang. 2017. Secure Causal Atomic
Broadcast, Revisited. In 47th Annual IEEE/IFIP International Conference on De-
pendable Systems and Networks (DSN 2017) . IEEE, 61–72. https://doi.org/10.1109/
DSN.2017.64
[27] Cynthia Dwork, Nancy Lynch, and Larry Stockmeyer. 1988. Consensus in the
Presence of Partial Synchrony. J. ACM 35, 2 (April 1988), 288–323. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/42282.42283
[28] David Eppstein, Michael T. Goodrich, Frank Uyeda, and George Varghese. 2011.
What’s the Difference? Efficient Set Reconciliation without Prior Context. In
ACM SIGCOMM 2011 Conference. ACM, 218–229. https://doi.org/10.1145/2018436.
2018462
[29] Ariel J. Feldman, William P. Zeller, Michael J. Freedman, and Edward W. Felten.
2010. SPORC: Group Collaboration using Untrusted Cloud Resources. In 9th
USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 2010) .
USENIX Association.
[30] Victor B.F. Gomes, Martin Kleppmann, Dominic P. Mulligan, and Alastair R.
Beresford. 2017. Verifying strong eventual consistency in distributed systems.
Proceedings of the ACM on Programming Languages 1, OOPSLA (Oct. 2017). https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3133933
[31] Michael T. Goodrich and Michael Mitzenmacher. 2011. Invertible Bloom Lookup
Tables. arXiv:1101.2245 [cs.DS] https://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2245
[32] Joseph M. Hellerstein. 2010. The declarative imperative. ACM SIGMOD Record
39, 1 (Sept. 2010), 5–19. https://doi.org/10.1145/1860702.1860704
[33] Brent Byunghoon Kang, Robert Wilensky, and John Kubiatowicz. 2003. The
hash history approach for reconciling mutual inconsistency. In 23rd International
Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS 2003) . IEEE, 670–677. https:
//doi.org/10.1109/ICDCS.2003.1203518
[34] Martin Kleppmann and Alastair R Beresford. 2017. A Conflict-Free Replicated
JSON Datatype. IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems 28, 10
(April 2017), 2733–2746. https://doi.org/10.1109/TPDS.2017.2697382
[35] Martin Kleppmann, Adam Wiggins, Peter van Hardenberg, and Mark Mc-
Granaghan. 2019. Local-First Software: You own your data, in spite of the
cloud. In ACM SIGPLAN International Symposium on New Ideas, New Paradigms,
and Reflections on Programming and Software (Onward! 2019) . ACM, 154–178.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3359591.3359737
[36] Ramakrishna Kotla, Lorenzo Alvisi, Mike Dahlin, Allen Clement, and Edmund
Wong. 2007. Zyzzyva: Speculative Byzantine Fault Tolerance. SIGOPS Operating
Systems Review 41, 6 (Oct. 2007), 45–58. https://doi.org/10.1145/1323293.1294267
[37] Leslie Lamport, Robert Shostak, and Marshall Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Gen-
erals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems 4, 3
(July 1982), 382–401. https://doi.org/10.1145/357172.357176
[38] João Leitão, José Pereira, and Luís Rodrigues. 2009. Gossip-Based Broadcast. In
Handbook of Peer-to-Peer Networking. Springer, 831–860. https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-0-387-09751-0_29
[39] Jinyuan Li and David Mazières. 2007. Beyond One-third Faulty Replicas in Byzan-
tine Fault Tolerant Systems. In 4th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems
Design & Implementation (NSDI 2007) . USENIX, 131–144.
[40] Albert van der Linde, João Leitão, and Nuno Preguiça. 2020. Practical Client-side
Replication: Weak Consistency Semantics for Insecure Settings. Proceedings of
the VLDB Endowment 13, 11 (July 2020), 2590–2605. https://doi.org/10.14778/
3407790.3407847
[41] Wyatt Lloyd, Michael J. Freedman, Michael Kaminsky, and David G. Andersen.
2011. Don’t Settle for Eventual: Scalable Causal Consistency for Wide-Area
Storage with COPS. In 23rd ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles
(SOSP 2011). ACM, 401–416. https://doi.org/10.1145/2043556.2043593
[42] Xiao Lv, Fazhi He, Yuan Cheng, and Yiqi Wu. 2018. A novel CRDT-based synchro-
nization method for real-time collaborative CAD systems. Advanced Engineering
Informatics 38 (Aug. 2018), 381–391. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2018.08.008
[43] Prince Mahajan. 2012. Highly A vailable Storage with Minimal Trust. Ph.D. Disser-
tation. University of Texas at Austin. https://repositories.lib.utexas.edu/handle/
2152/16320
[44] Prince Mahajan, Lorenzo Alvisi, and Mike Dahlin. 2011. Consistency, A vailability,
and Convergence. Technical Report UTCS TR-11-22. University of Texas at Austin.
https://www.cs.cornell.edu/lorenzo/papers/cac-tr.pdf
13

[45] Prince Mahajan, Srinath Setty, Sangmin Lee, Allen Clement, Lorenzo Alvisi, Mike
Dahlin, and Michael Walfish. 2010. Depot: Cloud storage with minimal trust. In
9th USENIX conference on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI
2010).
[46] Prince Mahajan, Srinath Setty, Sangmin Lee, Allen Clement, Lorenzo Alvisi,
Mike Dahlin, and Michael Walfish. 2011. Depot: Cloud Storage with Minimal
Trust. ACM Transactions on Computer Systems 29, 4, Article 12 (Dec. 2011).
https://doi.org/10.1145/2063509.2063512
[47] Dahlia Malkhi, Michael Merritt, and Ohad Rodeh. 2000. Secure Reliable Multicast
Protocols in a WAN. Distrib. Comput. 13, 1 (Jan. 2000), 19–28. https://doi.org/10.
1007/s004460050002
[48] Dahlia Malkhi and Michael Reiter. 1998. Byzantine Quorum Systems. Distrib.
Comput. 11, 4 (Oct. 1998), 203–213. https://doi.org/10.1007/s004460050050
[49] Dalia Malki and Michael Reiter. 1996. A High-Throughput Secure Reliable Mul-
ticast Protocol. In Proceedings of the 9th IEEE Workshop on Computer Security
Foundations (CSFW ’96) . IEEE Computer Society, USA, 9.
[50] Jean-Philippe Martin and Lorenzo Alvisi. 2006. Fast Byzantine Consensus. IEEE
Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing 3, 3 (July 2006), 202–215.
https://doi.org/10.1109/TDSC.2006.35
[51] David Mazières and Dennis Shasha. 2002. Building secure file systems out of
Byzantine storage. In 21st Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing
(PODC 2002). ACM, 108–117. https://doi.org/10.1145/571825.571840
[52] Ralph C. Merkle. 1987. A Digital Signature Based on a Conventional En-
cryption Function. In A Conference on the Theory and Applications of Crypto-
graphic Techniques on Advances in Cryptology (CRYPTO 1987) . Springer, 369–378.
https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48184-2_32
[53] Yaron Minsky, Ari Trachtenberg, and Richard Zippel. 2003. Set Reconciliation
with Nearly Optimal Communication Complexity. IEEE Transactions on Informa-
tion Theory 49, 9 (Sept. 2003), 2213–2218. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIT.2003.815784
[54] Mahsa Najafzadeh, Marc Shapiro, and Patrick Eugster. 2018. Co-Design and
Verification of an Available File System. In 19th International Conference on
Verification, Model Checking, and Abstract Interpretation (VMCAI 2018) . Springer,
358–381. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-73721-8_17
[55] Satoshi Nakamoto. 2008. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System. https:
//bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[56] National Institute of Standards and Technology. 2002. Secure Hash Standard
(SHA) – FIPS 180-2. https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/fips/180/2/archive/
2004-02-25
[57] Shawn O. Pearce and Junio C. Hamano. 2013. Git HTTP transfer protocols.
https://www.git-scm.com/docs/http-protocol
[58] Johan Pouwelse, Paweł Garbacki, Dick Epema, and Henk Sips. 2005. The
BitTorrent P2P File-Sharing System: Measurements and Analysis. In 4th In-
ternational Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems (IPTPS 2005) . 205–216. https:
//doi.org/10.1007/11558989_19
[59] Nuno Preguiça, Carlos Baquero, and Marc Shapiro. 2018. Conflict-Free Replicated
Data Types (CRDTs). In Encyclopedia of Big Data Technologies . Springer. https:
//doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-63962-8_185-1
[60] Protocol Labs. [n.d.]. IPLD. https://ipld.io/
[61] Danielle C. Robinson, Joe A. Hand, Mathias Buus Madsen, and Karissa R. McK-
elvey. 2018. The Dat Project, an open and decentralized research data tool.
Scientific Data 5 (Oct. 2018), 180221. https://doi.org/10.1038/sdata.2018.221
[62] Fred B. Schneider. 1990. Implementing Fault-Tolerant Services Using the State
Machine Approach: A Tutorial. Comput. Surveys 22, 4 (Dec. 1990), 299–319.
https://doi.org/10.1145/98163.98167
[63] Reinhard Schwarz and Friedemann Mattern. 1994. Detecting causal relationships
in distributed computations: In search of the holy grail. Distributed Computing 7,
3 (March 1994), 149–174. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF02277859
[64] Marc Shapiro, Nuno Preguiça, Carlos Baquero, and Marek Zawirski. 2011.A com-
prehensive study of Convergent and Commutative Replicated Data Types. Technical
Report 7506. INRIA. http://hal.inria.fr/inria-00555588/
[65] Marc Shapiro, Nuno Preguiça, Carlos Baquero, and Marek Zawirski. 2011.
Conflict-Free Replicated Data Types. In 13th International Symposium on Stabi-
lization, Safety, and Security of Distributed Systems (SSS 2011) . Springer, 386–400.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-24550-3_29
[66] Ali Shoker, Houssam Yactine, and Carlos Baquero. 2017. As Secure as Possible
Eventual Consistency: Work in Progress. In 3rd International Workshop on Princi-
ples and Practice of Consistency for Distributed Data (PaPoC 2017) . ACM, Article 5.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3064889.3064895
[67] Atul Singh, Miguel Castro, Peter Druschel, and Antony Rowstron. 2004. Defend-
ing against Eclipse Attacks on Overlay Networks. In 11th ACM SIGOPS European
Workshop (EW 2011). ACM. https://doi.org/10.1145/1133572.1133613
[68] Atul Singh, Pedro Fonseca, Petr Kuznetsov, Rodrigo Rodrigues, and Petros Ma-
niatis. 2009. Zeno: Eventually Consistent Byzantine-Fault Tolerance. In 6th
USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI
2009). USENIX, 169–184.
[69] Magnus Skjegstad and Torleiv Maseng. 2011. Low Complexity Set Reconciliation
Using Bloom Filters. In 7th ACM SIGACT/SIGMOBILE International Workshop on
Foundations of Mobile Computing (FOMC 2011) . ACM, 33–41. https://doi.org/10.
1145/1998476.1998483
[70] Jonathan Tan Tan and Junio C. Hamano. 2018. negotiator/skipping: skip commits
during fetch. Git source code commit 42cc7485. https://github.com/git/git/
commit/42cc7485a2ec49ecc440c921d2eb0cae4da80549
[71] Vinh Tao, Marc Shapiro, and Vianney Rancurel. 2015. Merging semantics for
conflict updates in geo-distributed file systems. In 8th ACM International Systems
and Storage Conference (SYSTOR 2015) . ACM. https://doi.org/10.1145/2757667.
2757683
[72] Dominic Tarr, Erick Lavoie, Aljoscha Meyer, and Christian Tschudin. 2019. Se-
cure Scuttlebutt: An Identity-Centric Protocol for Subjective and Decentralized
Applications. In 6th ACM Conference on Information-Centric Networking (ICN
2019). https://doi.org/10.1145/3357150.3357396
[73] Albert van der Linde, Pedro Fouto, João Leitão, Nuno Preguiça, Santiago
Castiñeira, and Annette Bieniusa. 2017. Legion: Enriching Internet Services
with Peer-to-Peer Interactions. In 26th International Conference on World Wide
Web (WWW 2017). ACM, 283–292. https://doi.org/10.1145/3038912.3052673
[74] Matthew D. Van Gundy and Hao Chen. 2012. OldBlue: Causal Broadcast In A
Mutually Suspicious Environment (Working Draft). https://matt.singlethink.
net/projects/mpotr/oldblue-draft.pdf
[75] Peter van Hardenberg and Martin Kleppmann. 2020. PushPin: Towards
Production-Quality Peer-to-Peer Collaboration. In 7th Workshop on Principles
and Practice of Consistency for Distributed Data (PaPoC 2020) . ACM, Article 10.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3380787.3393683
[76] Werner Vogels. 2009. Eventually consistent. Commun. ACM 52, 1 (2009), 40–44.
https://doi.org/10.1145/1435417.1435432
[77] Alex de Vries. 2020. Bitcoin’s energy consumption is underestimated: A market
dynamics approach. Energy Research & Social Science 70 (Dec. 2020), 101721.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.erss.2020.101721
[78] Stéphane Weiss, Pascal Urso, and Pascal Molli. 2009. Logoot: A Scalable Optimistic
Replication Algorithm for Collaborative Editing on P2P Networks. In 29th IEEE
International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS 2009) . IEEE,
404–412. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICDCS.2009.75
[79] Marek Zawirski, Nuno Preguiça, Sérgio Duarte, Annette Bieniusa, Valter Bale-
gas, and Marc Shapiro. 2015. Write Fast, Read in the Past: Causal Con-
sistency for Client-side Applications. In 16th Annual Middleware Conference .
ACM/IFIP/USENIX, 75–87. https://doi.org/10.1145/2814576.2814733
[80] Wenbing Zhao, Mamdouh Babi, William Yang, Xiong Luo, Yueqin Zhu, Jack Yang,
Chaomin Luo, and Mary Yang. 2016. Byzantine Fault Tolerance for Collaborative
Editing with Commutative Operations. InIEEE International Conference on Electro
Information Technology (EIT 2016) . IEEE, 246–251. https://doi.org/10.1109/eit.
2016.7535248
A PROOFS FOR CAUSAL BROADCAST
In this appendix we show that Algorithms 1 and 2 implement causal
broadcast, as defined in § 4, in the Byzantine system model of § 2.3.
Where a lemma does not specify which of the two algorithms it
applies to, it holds for both.
Lemma A.1. Algorithms 1 and 2 satisfy the self-delivery, authen-
ticity, non-duplication, and causal order properties of causal broad-
cast, as defined in § 4.1.
Proof. The self-delivery property holds trivially, because each
time a correct replica broadcasts a message, it immediately delivers
that message to itself (Algorithm 1, line 6).
The authenticity property holds because when a broadcast mes-
sage is delivered, it was either sent by the local replica (Algorithm 1,
line 6), in which case it is trivially authentic, or it was received from
another replica (Algorithm 1, line 41). In the latter case, messages
are in the setM only if they were broadcast, and we discard any
messages that do not have a valid signature from its sender (Algo-
rithm 1, line 23). Our system model assumes that signatures are
unforgeable, so a correct replica delivers a message only if it was
broadcast by the replica that signed it.
The non-duplication property holds because every message is
unique (due to the inclusion of the hashes of its predecessors),
and messages delivered during reconciliation are limited to those
not already inM (Algorithm 1, line 41). SinceM is immediately
14

updated to include all delivered messages, and this takes place in
an atomic block (preventing two threads from concurrently trying
to deliver the same message), this algorithm ensures that no correct
replica delivers the same message more than once.
The causal order property holds because when a correct replica
broadcasts a message, the predecessor hashes are computed such
that every message previously broadcast or delivered by this replica
becomes a (direct or indirect) predecessor of the new message (Al-
gorithm 1, line 2). Any correct replica delivers messages in topolog-
ically sorted order, i.e. any predecessors of𝑚 are delivered before
𝑚 (Algorithm 1, line 41). The reconciliation algorithm delivers mes-
sages only once all hashes have been resolved (once all direct and
indirect predecessor messages have been received), so we know
that there are no missing predecessors. Thus, whenever a correct
replica broadcasts or delivers𝑚1 before broadcasting𝑚2, all correct
replicas deliver𝑚1 before delivering𝑚2. □
This leaves the eventual delivery property, which is the focus of
the remainder of this appendix. We consider two correct replicas
𝑝 and𝑞, with initial sets of messagesM𝑝 andM𝑞 respectively at
the start of the execution. Assume that in this run of the algorithm,
𝑝 and𝑞 both complete the reconciliation by reaching line 45 of
Algorithm 1. Let recvd𝑝 be the contents of the variable recvd at
replica𝑝 when the reconciliation is complete, and likewiserecvd𝑞 at
replica𝑞. Further, letM′𝑝 =M𝑝∪ recvd𝑝 andM′𝑞 =M𝑞∪ recvd𝑞
be the final set of messages at both replicas.
Lemma A.2. The set of messagesM of a correct replica 𝑝 grows
monotonically.
Proof. The replica𝑝 only modifiesM by generating new oper-
ations, which are added toM (Algorithm 1, line 7), or by unioning
it with the set recvd (Algorithm 1, line 40). Thus, elements are only
added to the setM, and thereforeM grows monotonically. □
Lemma A.3. Let𝑚 =(𝑣, hs, sig) such that 𝑚∈M 𝑝 . Then its
predecessors are also inM𝑝 , i.e.∀ℎ∈ hs.∃𝑚′∈M 𝑝.𝐻(𝑚′) =ℎ.
Proof. There are two ways𝑚 can become a member ofM𝑝 for
a correct replica𝑝:
Case 𝑚 is broadcast by replica𝑝:
In this case, since𝑝 is assumed to be correct, the hasheshs are
computed as hs ={𝐻(𝑚′)| 𝑚′∈M∧ succ1(M,𝑚′) ={}}
for some earlier stateM (Algorithm 1, line 2). AsM grows
monotonically (Lemma A.2),M ⊆M𝑝, and thus we can
deduce that∀ℎ∈ hs.∃𝑚′∈M 𝑝.𝐻(𝑚′) =ℎ.
Case 𝑚 is received from another replica (which may be faulty):
During the run of the protocol at which 𝑝 received𝑚, we
have𝑚∈ recvd and missing ={} at line 40 of Algorithm 1.
LetM be the set of messages at𝑝 immediately before that
execution of line 40. From missing = {} and line 24 of
Algorithm 1 we have∀ℎ∈ hs.∃𝑚′∈(M∪ recvd).𝐻(𝑚′) =
ℎ. SinceM grows monotonically (Lemma A.2) and recvd⊆
M𝑝 (Algorithm 1, line 40),∀ℎ∈ hs.∃𝑚′∈M 𝑝.𝐻(𝑚′) =ℎ.
□
Lemma A.4. Let𝑚 =(𝑣, hs, sig) such that𝑚∈M 𝑝 and𝑚∈M 𝑞.
Then the hashes hs resolve to the same messages at 𝑝 and𝑞, that is,
{𝑚′∈M 𝑝|𝐻(𝑚′)∈ hs} ={𝑚′∈M 𝑞|𝐻(𝑚′)∈ hs}.
Proof. We use proof by contradiction. Assume there existsℎ∈
hs such that{𝑚′∈M 𝑝| 𝐻(𝑚′) =ℎ} ≠{𝑚′∈M 𝑞| 𝐻(𝑚′) =ℎ}.
By Lemma A.3 we have{𝑚′∈M 𝑝|𝐻(𝑚′) =ℎ} ≠{} and similarly,
{𝑚′∈M 𝑞| 𝐻(𝑚′) =ℎ} ≠{}. Hence, there exist𝑚′∈M 𝑝 and
𝑚′′∈M 𝑞 such that𝑚′ ≠𝑚′′ and𝐻(𝑚′) =𝐻(𝑚′′) =ℎ. However,
this contradicts our assumption in § 5 that the hash function𝐻(·)
is collision-resistant. □
Lemma A.5. M𝑞⊆M′𝑝 when executing Algorithm 1.
Proof. We use proof by contradiction. Assume to the contrary
that∃𝑚∈M 𝑞. 𝑚 ∉M′𝑝. Since recvd⊆M ′𝑝 and elements are
only added to recvd (Algorithm 1, line 23) then𝑚 ∉M′𝑝 implies
that𝑚 ∉ recvd on replica𝑝. We now consider two cases depending
on the value returned by succ1(M𝑞,𝑚):
Case succ1(M𝑞,𝑚) ={}:
In this case, 𝐻(𝑚) ∈heads(M𝑞), and so the first heads
request from𝑞 to𝑝 will contain𝐻(𝑚) (Algorithm 1, line 15).
Since𝑚 ∉ M𝑝, replica 𝑝 will send a needs request to 𝑞
containing𝐻(𝑚) (Algorithm 1, line 19). Upon receiving the
needs message containing𝐻(𝑚), replica𝑞 will reply with an
msgs response containing𝑚 (Algorithm 1, line 32). Replica
𝑝 will receive themsgs response with𝑚 from replica𝑞 and
will add𝑚 to recvd (Algorithm 1, line 23). This contradicts
our previous finding that𝑚 ∉ recvd.
Case succ1(M𝑞,𝑚) ≠{}:
In this case,𝐻(𝑚) ∉ heads(M𝑞). SinceM𝑞 is a DAG, there
must exist a message 𝑚′ such that 𝐻(𝑚′) ∈heads(M𝑞)
and𝑚′∈ succ∗(M𝑞,𝑚). As in the previous case,𝐻(𝑚′)∈
heads(M𝑞) implies that𝑚′∈ recvd. Note that none of the
messages in succ∗(M𝑞,𝑚) are inM𝑝 as𝑚 ∉M′𝑝 implies
that𝑚 ∉M𝑝 (Lemma A.2). If𝑚′∈ succ1(M𝑞,𝑚) then it
must the case that𝑚∈ recvd by the time that missing =∅,
otherwise𝑚∈ missing (Algorithm 1, line 24). By induction
over the path of successors from𝑚′ to𝑚, we observe that
𝑚∈ recvd. At each step of the induction, the replicas move
to the predecessors of the previous step; due to Lemma A.4,
𝑝 and𝑞 agree about the identity of these predecessors. This
contradicts our previous finding that𝑚 ∉ recvd.
□
Lemma A.6. M𝑞⊆M′𝑝 when executing Algorithm 2.
Proof. We use proof by contradiction. Assume𝑚∈M 𝑞 such
that𝑚 ∉M′𝑝 and𝑚 ∉ recvd like in Lemma A.5. Let filter be the
Bloom filter in the initial message from𝑝 to𝑞 in the current protocol
run (Algorithm 2, line 4). Even though𝑚 ∉M𝑝 (by Lemma A.2),
BloomMember(filter,𝑚) may return a false positive. Moreover, if
it returns true,𝑚 may or may not be a successor of abloomNegative
item as computed in Algorithm 2, lines 9–10. As a result it is possible
that either𝑚∈ reply or𝑚 ∉ reply after𝑞 has executed line 10 of
Algorithm 2.
If𝑚∈ reply then𝑝 will receive anmsgs response containing𝑚
from𝑞, which will be added torecvd, contradicting our assumption
that𝑚 ∉ recvd. If𝑚 ∉ reply we continue to line 15 of Algorithm 2,
from which point onward the algorithm is the same as Algorithm 1.
Thus, we haveM𝑞⊆M′𝑝 by Lemma A.5. □
15

Lemma A.7. M′𝑝⊆M 𝑝∪M 𝑞.
Proof. We use proof by contradiction. Assume to the contrary
that∃𝑚∈M ′𝑝. 𝑚∉M𝑝∧𝑚 ∉M𝑞. Since∃𝑚∈M ′𝑝, replica𝑝
must have received a message containing𝑚 from replica𝑞 before it
completed reconciliation (Algorithm 1, lines 22–26 and 40). Replica
𝑞 will only send a message containing𝑚 if𝑚∈M 𝑞 or𝑚∈M ′𝑞,
depending on whether replica𝑞 has completed the reconciliation
algorithm. Since 𝑚 ∉M𝑞 then replica 𝑞 must have received a
message containing𝑚 from replica𝑝. Since𝑚 ∉M𝑝 then replica𝑝
will not send this message and therefore𝑚 does not exist. □
Lemma A.8. When two correct replicas 𝑝 and𝑞, with initial sets of
messagesM𝑝 andM𝑞, have completed reconciliation (i.e. both have
reached line 45 of Algorithm 1), then their final sets of messages M′𝑝
andM′𝑞 are both equal toM𝑝∪M 𝑞.
Proof. We haveM𝑝 ⊆ M′𝑝 by Lemma A.2, M𝑞 ⊆ M′𝑝 by
Lemmata A.5 and A.6, andM′𝑝⊆M 𝑝∪M 𝑞 by Lemma A.7. From
these facts we have shown that M′𝑝 =M𝑞∪M 𝑞. Similarly, by
swapping𝑝 and𝑞 we can show thatM′𝑞 =M𝑞∪M 𝑞. □
Lemma A.9. If two correct replicas attempt reconciliation an infi-
nite number of times, then there is an infinite number of protocol runs
in which the algorithm terminates (i.e. both replicas reach line 45 of
Algorithm 1), assuming the system model of § 2.3.
Proof. Our system model assumes network communication is
reliable, but it allows correct replicas to crash and recover. If a crash
occurs during a reconciliation, that reconciliation may be aborted.
However, if we perform reconciliation an infinite number of times,
then only a subset of reconciliations will be affected by crashes,
and an infinite number of reconciliations will be free from crashes.
The graph of messages M𝑝 at any correct replica 𝑝 is finite
and contains no cycles. Therefore, every vertex𝑚′∈M 𝑝 can be
reached in a finite number of steps by starting a graph traversal
at heads(M𝑝) and, in each step, moving from each vertex to its
predecessors. Moreover, by Lemma A.3,M𝑝 at any correct replica
𝑝 contains only hashes that are the hash of another message in
M𝑝. Hence, in a connection in which neither replica crashes, the
algorithm will always reach the state missing ={} and terminate
(i.e. reach line 45 of Algorithm 1) in a finite number of round-trips
ofneeds requests andmsgs responses.
Since there are an infinite number of connection attempts that
are free from crashes, and the algorithm always terminates for these
connections, we can conclude that there are an infinite number of
protocol runs in which the algorithm terminates. □
Theorem A.10. Algorithms 1 and 2 implement causal broadcast,
as defined in § 4, in the Byzantine system model of § 2.3.
Proof. Lemma A.1 proves the properties apart from eventual
delivery. To prove eventual delivery, for any two correct replicas
𝑝 and𝑞, we must show that a message delivered by𝑝 will also be
delivered by𝑞. We assume in § 2.3 that the correct replicas form a
connected component in the graph of replicas and network links.
Thus, either there is a direct network link between𝑝 and𝑞, or there
is a path of network links on which all of the intermediate links are
also correct.
Assume that any two adjacent replicas on this path periodically
attempt a reconciliation without a bound on the number of recon-
ciliations. Thus, in an execution of infinite duration, there will be
an infinite number of reconciliations between any two adjacent
replicas. By Lemma A.9, an infinite number of these reconcilia-
tions will complete. By Lemma A.8, at the instant in which one
of these reconciliations completes, the set of messages delivered
by one replica equals the set of messages delivered by the other
replica, with the exception of any messages delivered by concurrent
reconciliations.
Any messages delivered by one replica while the reconciliation
with the other replica was in progress will be sent in the next re-
conciliation, which always exists, since we are assuming an infinite
number of reconciliations. After a reconciliation where one replica
completes while the other does not (e.g. due to a crash just before
completing), the sets of messages delivered by the two replicas may
be different, but again the missing messages will be sent in the next
reconciliation.
Let𝑚 be a message that has been delivered by𝑝 at some point
in time. We have𝑚∈M 𝑝 from that time onward, sinceM𝑝 is
exactly the set of delivered messages, and it grows monotonically
(Lemma A.2). Thus,𝑚 will eventually be delivered by any correct
replica to which 𝑝 has a direct network link. These replicas will
eventually relay𝑚 to their direct neighbors, and so on, until𝑚 is
delivered to𝑞 through successive reconciliations along the path
from𝑝 to𝑞. Therefore,𝑚 is eventually delivered by𝑞. □
B PROOFS FOR BEC REPLICATION
In this appendix we prove that Algorithm 3 provides Byzantine
Eventual Consistency, as defined in § 3.1.
Lemma B.1. For a given message𝑚, the conditions on lines 8 and 9
of Algorithm 3 evaluate to the same result (true orfalse) on all correct
replicas.
Proof. The safety check on line 8 depends only on the updates
in the message and the invariants, and not on the replica state. We
assume that all correct replicas use the same invariants, so they
will agree on whether the updates are safe.
The predecessor check on line 9 depends only on𝑚 and the set
of its predecessors; this set is the same on all correct replicas, since
it is unambiguously determined by𝑚’s causal dependency hashes,
and a replica ensures that if a message is inM, its predecessors are
also inM. □
Lemma B.2. In Algorithm 3, for all replica states 𝑆, and for all
messages𝑚1,𝑚2 such that neither message is a predecessor of the
other, delivering𝑚1 first and then𝑚2 has the same effect as delivering
𝑚2 first and then𝑚1.
Proof. Consider first the conditions on lines 8 and 9 of Algo-
rithm 3; by Lemma B.1, these conditions always evaluate to the
same value for a given message, regardless of the replica state and
the order in which the messages are delivered. If they evaluate
to false for both𝑚1 and𝑚2, the state𝑆 is not modified, so these
updates commute. If the conditions arefalse for one message and
true for the other, only one of the message deliveries updates the
replica state, so these updates commute.
16

Now consider the case when the conditions are true for both
messages. Let the following:
𝑚1 =((ins 1, del 1), hs 1, sig 1)
𝑚2 =((ins 2, del 2), hs 2, sig 2)
ins′
1 ={(𝐻(𝑚1), rel, tuple)|( rel, tuple)∈ ins 1}
ins′
2 ={(𝐻(𝑚2), rel, tuple)|( rel, tuple)∈ ins 2}
Since the condition on line 9 is true, we have
∀(ℎ,𝑟,𝑡)∈ del 1.ℎ ∈{ 𝐻(𝑚′)| 𝑚′∈ pred∗(M,𝑚 1)}.
Recall that𝑚2 ∉ pred∗(M,𝑚 1) by assumption, from which we
can deduce that∀(ℎ,𝑟,𝑡)∈ del 1.ℎ ≠𝐻(𝑚2). On the other hand,
every element in ins′
2 contains𝐻(𝑚2), so ins′
2 cannot have any
elements in common withdel 1, that is,ins′
2∩del 1 ={}. By similar
argument, ins′
1∩ del 2 ={}.
A replica that first delivers𝑚1 and then𝑚2 is in the final state
𝑆′ =(((𝑆\ del 1)∪ ins′
1)\ del 2)∪ ins′
2
=(((𝑆\ del 1)\ del 2)∪ ins′
1)∪ ins′
2 since ins′
1∩ del 2 ={}
=(((𝑆\ del 2)\ del 1)∪ ins′
2)∪ ins′
1 by commutativity
=(((𝑆\ del 2)∪ ins′
2)\ del 1)∪ ins′
1 since ins′
2∩ del 1 ={}
which equals the final state of a replica that first delivers𝑚2 and
then𝑚1. Therefore, the updates by𝑚1 and𝑚2 commute. □
Note that these proofs do not make any assumptions about the
sender of a message, and therefore they hold for any messages,
even those sent by a malicious replica.
Theorem B.3. Assume that the safety check on line 8 of Algo-
rithm 3 only allows updates from transactions that are I-confluent
with regard to all of the application’s declared invariants. Then Algo-
rithm 3 ensures Byzantine Eventual Consistency, as defined in § 3.1,
in the Byzantine system model of § 2.3.
Proof. The self-update, authenticity, and causal consistency prop-
erties follow directly from the self-delivery, authenticity, and causal
order properties of causal broadcast (§ 4.1), respectively.
The atomicity property of BEC follows from the fact that all up-
dates generated by a transaction are encoded into a single message,
and the delivery of that message occurs within an atomic block on
every correct replica (Algorithm 1, line 41).
To prove the eventual update update property of BEC, we rely
upon the eventual delivery property of causal broadcast, which
ensures that any message delivered by one correct replica will even-
tually be delivered by all correct replicas. Moreover, by Lemma B.1,
one correct replica applies the updates in a message if and only if
another correct replica applies it.
To prove the convergence property of BEC, assume two correct
replicas𝑝 and𝑞 have delivered the same set of messages. We must
then show that both replicas are in the same state. Due to the non-
duplication property of causal broadcast, no message is delivered
more than once. Therefore, the sequence of message deliveries at𝑝
is a permutation of the sequence of deliveries at𝑞. Moreover, due
to the causal order property, if both replicas have delivered𝑚1 and
𝑚2, and if𝑚1 is a predecessor of𝑚2, then𝑚1 appears before𝑚2
in both replicas’ delivery sequences.
It is therefore possible to permute𝑝’s delivery sequence into𝑞’s
delivery sequence by repeatedly swapping adjacent messages in
that sequence, such that neither message is a predecessor of the
other [30]. By Lemma B.2, swapping two such adjacent message
deliveries does not change the replica state after delivering those
messages. Thus, each such swap of adjacent messages leaves the
final state of the replica unchanged, and therefore𝑝 and𝑞 must be
in the same state.
Finally, to prove the invariant preservation property of BEC we
must show that correct replicas are always in a state that satis-
fies all of the application’s declared invariants. We use proof by
induction over the sequence of messages delivered by a correct
replica. The base case is a replica with an empty database, where no
messages have been delivered, and where all invariants are satisfied
by assumption. For the inductive step, assume a replica that has
delivered messages𝑚1,...,𝑚 𝑛 in that order, and that is in a state
in which all invariants are satisfied. We must then show that after
delivering one more message,𝑚𝑛+1, the invariants continue to be
satisfied.
Split the sequence𝑚1,...,𝑚 𝑛 into a prefix𝑚1,...,𝑚 𝑖−1 and a
suffix𝑚𝑖,...,𝑚 𝑛 such that the suffix is the longest possible suffix
in which all messages are concurrent with𝑚𝑛+1 (that is, either the
prefix is empty, or𝑚𝑖−1 is a predecessor of𝑚𝑛+1). By Lemma B.2,
the replica state after delivering𝑚1,...,𝑚 𝑛,𝑚 𝑛+1 is the same as the
state after delivering𝑚1,...,𝑚 𝑛+1,𝑚 𝑛 in that order. By repeated
pairwise swaps of concurrent messages, that state is the same as af-
ter delivering𝑚1,...,𝑚 𝑖−1,𝑚 𝑛+1,𝑚 𝑖,...,𝑚 𝑛. Immediately before
𝑚𝑖 is the earliest possible point at which𝑚𝑛+1 can be delivered by
causal broadcast.
Let𝑆 be the state of the replica after delivering 𝑚1,...,𝑚 𝑖−1,
and let𝐼 be one of the application’s declared invariants. We have
𝐼(𝑆) by the inductive hypothesis. By assumption, the safety check
on line 8 of Algorithm 3 does not allow updates that would cause
the immediate violation of an invariant. Moreover, by the definition
ofI-confluence (§ 2.2), if 𝐼(apply(𝑆,𝑚 𝑖)) and𝐼(apply(𝑆,𝑚 𝑛+1))
for concurrent𝑚𝑖 and𝑚𝑛+1, then the invariant is also satisfied after
both𝑚𝑖 and𝑚𝑛+1 have been delivered:𝐼(apply(apply(𝑆,𝑚 𝑖),𝑚 𝑛+1)).
By repeated swapping of adjacent messages in this order we move
𝑚𝑛+1 back to the end of the sequence, at each step ensuring that
𝐼 continues to be satisfied due toI-confluence. This shows that𝐼
must still be satisfied after delivering𝑚1,...,𝑚 𝑛,𝑚 𝑛+1, as required:
𝐼(apply(apply(... apply({},𝑚 1),...,𝑚 𝑛),𝑚 𝑛+1)).
□
17