FROST: Flexible Round-Optimized
Schnorr Threshold Signatures
Chelsea Komlo
University of Waterloo, Zcash Foundation
ckomlo@uwaterloo.ca
Ian Goldberg
University of Waterloo
iang@uwaterloo.ca
December 22, 2020
Abstract
Unlike signatures in a single-party setting, threshold signatures require coop-
eration among a threshold number of signers each holding a share of a common
private key. Consequently, generating signatures in a threshold setting imposes
overhead due to network rounds among signers, proving costly when secret shares
are stored on network-limited devices or when coordination occurs over unreliable
networks. In this work, we present FROST, a Flexible Round-Optimized Schnorr
Threshold signature scheme that reduces network overhead during signing opera-
tions while employing a novel technique to protect against forgery attacks appli-
cable to similar schemes in the literature. FROST improves upon the state of the
art in Schnorr threshold signature protocols, as it can safely perform signing op-
erations in a single round without limiting concurrency of signing operations, yet
allows for true threshold signing, as only a threshold t out of n possible partici-
pants are required for signing operations, such that t≤n. FROST can be used as
either a two-round protocol, or optimized to a single-round signing protocol with
a pre-processing stage. FROST achieves its efﬁciency improvements in part by
allowing the protocol to abort in the presence of a misbehaving participant (who
is then identiﬁed and excluded from future operations)—a reasonable model for
practical deployment scenarios. We present proofs of security demonstrating that
FROST is secure against chosen-message attacks assuming the discrete logarithm
problem is hard and the adversary controls fewer participants than the threshold.
1 Introduction
Threshold signature schemes are a cryptographic primitive to facilitate joint ownership
over a private key by a set of participants, such that a threshold number of participants
1

must cooperate to issue a signature that can be veriﬁed by a single public key. Thresh-
old signatures are useful across a range of settings that require a distributed root of trust
among a set of equally trusted parties.
Similarly to signing operations in a single-party setting, some implementations of
threshold signature schemes require performing signing operations at scale and un-
der heavy load. For example, threshold signatures can be used by a set of signers to
authenticate ﬁnancial transactions in cryptocurrencies [16], or to sign a network con-
sensus produced by a set of trusted authorities [22]. In both of these examples, as the
number of signing parties or signing operations increases, the number of communi-
cation rounds between participants required to produce the joint signature becomes a
performance bottleneck, in addition to the increased load experienced by each signer.
This problem is further exacerbated when signers utilize network-limited devices or
unreliable networks for transmission, or protocols that wish to allow signers to partici-
pate in signing operations asynchronously. As such, optimizing the network overhead
of signing operations is highly beneﬁcial to real-world applications of threshold signa-
tures.
Today in the literature, the best threshold signature schemes are those that rely on
pairing-based cryptography [6,7], and can perform signing operations in a single round
among participants. However, relying on pairing-based signature schemes is undesir-
able for some implementations in practice, such as those that do not wish to introduce a
new cryptographic assumption, or that wish to maintain backwards compatibility with
an existing signature scheme such as Schnorr signatures. Surprisingly, today’s best
non-pairing-based threshold signature constructions that produce Schnorr signatures
with unlimited concurrency [14, 29] require at least three rounds of communication
during signing operations, whereas constructions with fewer network rounds [14] must
limit signing concurrency to protect against a forgery attack [10].
In this work, we present FROST, a Flexible Round-Optimized Schnorr Threshold
signature scheme 1 that addresses the need for efﬁcient threshold signing operations
while improving upon the state of the art to ensure strong security properties without
limiting the parallelism of signing operations. FROST can be used as either a two-
round protocol where signers send and receive two messages in total, or optimized to a
(non-broadcast) single-round signing protocol with a pre-processing stage. FROST
achieves improved efﬁciency in the optimistic case that no participant misbehaves.
However, in the case where a misbehaving participant contributes malformed values
during the protocol, honest parties can identify and exclude the misbehaving partici-
pant, and re-run the protocol.
The ﬂexible design of FROST lends itself to supporting a number of practical use
cases for threshold signing. Because the preprocessing round can be performed sep-
arately from the signing round, signing operations can be performed asynchronously;
once the preprocessing round is complete, signers only need to receive and eventu-
ally reply with a single message to create a signature. Further, while some threshold
schemes in the literature require all participants to be active during signing opera-
tions [9, 14], and refer to the threshold property of the protocol as merely a security
property, FROST allows any threshold number of participants to produce valid signa-
1Signatures generated using the FROST protocol can also be referred to as ”FROSTy signatures”.
2

tures. Consequently, FROST can support use cases where a subset of participants (or
participating devices) can remain ofﬂine, a property that is often desirable for security
in practice.
Contributions. In this work, we present the following contributions.
• We review related threshold signature schemes and present a detailed analysis of
their performance and designs.
• We present FROST, a Flexible Round-Optimized Schnorr Threshold signature
scheme. FROST improves upon the state of the art for Schnorr threshold signa-
tures by deﬁning a signing protocol that can be optimized to a (non-broadcast)
single-round operation with a preprocessing stage. Unlike many prior Schnorr
threshold schemes, FROST remains secure against known forgery attacks with-
out limiting concurrency of signing operations.
• We present a proof of security and correctness for an interactive two-round
variant of FROST, building upon proofs of security for prior related threshold
schemes. We then demonstrate how this proof extends to FROST in the single-
rounnd setting.
Organization. We present background information in Section 2; in Section 3 we
give an overview of related threshold Schnorr signature constructions. In Section 4
we review notation and security assumptions maintained for our work, and we intro-
duce FROST in Section 5. In Section 6 we give proofs of security and correctness for
FROST, and discuss operational considerations in Section 7. We conclude in Section 8.
2 Background
Let G be a group of prime order q in which the Decisional Difﬁe-Hellman problem is
hard, and let g be a generator of G. Let H be a cryptographic hash function mapping
to Z∗
q. We denote byx
$
←S thatx is uniformly randomly selected fromS.
2.1 Threshold Schemes
Cryptographic protocols called (t,n )-threshold schemes allow a set of n participants
to share a secret s, such that any t out of the n participants are required to cooperate
in order to recover s, but any subset of fewer than t participants cannot recover any
information about the secret.
Shamir Secret Sharing. Many threshold schemes build upon Shamir secret shar-
ing [28], a (t,n )-threshold scheme that relies on Lagrange interpolation to recover a
secret. In Shamir secret sharing, a trusted central dealer distributes a secret s ton par-
ticipants in such a way that any cooperating subset of t participants can recover the
secret. To distribute this secret, the dealer ﬁrst selectst− 1 coefﬁcientsa1,...,a t−1 at
random, and uses the randomly selected values as coefﬁcients to deﬁne a polynomial
f(x) =s + ∑t−1
i=1aixi of degreet− 1 wheref(0) =s. The secret shares for each par-
ticipantPi are subsequently (i,f (i)), which the dealer is trusted to distribute honestly
to each participantP1,...,P n. To reconstruct the secret, at leastt participants perform
Lagrange interpolation to reconstruct the polynomial and thus ﬁnd the values =f(0).
3

However, no group of fewer thant participants can reconstruct the secret, as at least t
points are required to reconstruct a polynomial of degreet− 1.
Veriﬁable Secret Sharing.Feldman’s Veriﬁable Secret Sharing (VSS) Scheme [11]
builds upon Shamir secret sharing, adding a veriﬁcation step to demonstrate the consis-
tency of a participant’s share with a publiccommitment that is assumed to be correctly
visible to all participants. To validate that a share is well formed, each participant vali-
dates their share using this commitment. If the validation fails, the participant can issue
a complaint against the dealer, and take actions such as broadcasting this complaint to
all other participants. FROST similarly uses this technique as well.
The commitment produced in Feldman’s scheme is as follows. As before in Shamir
secret sharing, a dealer samples t− 1 random values (a1,...,a t−1), and uses these
values as coefﬁcients to deﬁne a polynomial f of degree t− 1 such that f(0) = s.
However, along with distributing the private share (i,f (i)) to each participant Pi, the
dealer also distributes the public commitment ⃗C =⟨φ0,...,φ t−1⟩, where φ0 = gs
andφj =gaj .
Note that in a distributed setting, each participantPi must be sure to have the same
view of ⃗C as all other participants. In practice, implementations guarantee consistency
of participants’ views by using techniques such as posting commitments to a central-
ized server that is trusted to provide a single view to all participants, or adding another
protocol round where participants compare their received commitment values to ensure
they are identical.
2.2 Threshold Signature Schemes
Threshold signature schemes leverage the(t,n ) security properties of threshold schemes,
but allow participants to produce signatures over a message using their secret shares
such that anyone can validate the integrity of the message, without ever reconstructing
the secret. In threshold signature schemes, the secret key s is distributed among the
n participants, while a single public key Y is used to represent the group. Signatures
can be generated by a threshold oft cooperating signers. For our work, we require the
resulting signature produced by the threshold signature scheme to be valid under the
Schnorr signature scheme [27], which we introduce in Section 2.4.
Because threshold signature schemes ensure that no participant (or indeed any
group of fewer than t participants) ever learns the secret key s, the generation of s
and distribution of sharess1,...,s n often require generating shares using a less-trusted
method than relying on a central dealer. FROST instead makes use of a Distributed Key
Generation (DKG) protocol, which we describe in Section 2.3. Similarly, generating
Schnorr signatures in a threshold setting requires that the random noncek be generated
in such a way that each participant contributes to but does not know the resultingk. To
perform this task, FROST uses additive secret sharing, which we now describe.
Additive Secret Sharing. While Shamir secret sharing and derived constructions
require shares to be points on a secret polynomial f wheref(0) = s, an additive se-
cret sharing scheme allows a set ofα participants to jointly compute a shared secret s
by each participant Pi contributing a value si such that the resulting shared secret is
s = ∑α
i=1si, the summation of each participant’s share. Consequently, additive secret
sharing can be performed non-interactively; each participant directly chooses their own
4

si. Benaloh and Leichter [4] generalize additive secret sharing to arbitrary monotone
access structures, and Cramer, Damg˚ard, and Ishai [8] present a non-interactive mech-
anism, which we use in its simplest case, for participants to locally convert additive
shares of the form s = ∑
isi to polynomial (Shamir) form, as si
λi
are Shamir secret
shares of the same s, where the λi are Lagrange coefﬁcients. In FROST, participants
use this technique during signing operations to non-interactively generate a nonce that
is Shamir secret shared among all signing participants.
2.3 Distributed Key Generation
Unlike threshold schemes such as Shamir secret sharing that rely on a trusted dealer,
Distributed Key Generation (DKG) ensures every participant contributes equally to the
generation of the shared secret. At the end of running the protocol, all participants share
a joint public key Y , but each participant holds only a share si of the corresponding
secrets such that no set of participants smaller than the threshold knowss.
Pedersen [23] presents a two-round DKG where each participant acts as the central
dealer of Feldman’s VSS [11] protocol, resulting in n parallel executions of the pro-
tocol. Consequently, this protocol requires two rounds of communication between all
participants; after each participant selects a secret xi, they ﬁrst broadcast a commit-
ment to xi to all other participants, and then send all other participants a secret share
ofxi.
Gennaro et al. [15] demonstrate a weakness of Pedersen’s DKG [23] such that a
misbehaving participant can bias the distribution of the resulting shared secret by is-
suing complaints against a participant after seeing the shares issued to them by this
participant, thereby disqualifying them from contributing to the key generation. To
address this issue, the authors deﬁne a modiﬁcation to Pedersen’s DKG to utilize both
Feldman’s VSS as well as a veriﬁable secret sharing scheme by Pedersen [24] result-
ing in a three-round protocol. To prevent adversaries from adaptively disqualifying
participants based on their input, the authors add an additional “commitment round”,
such that the value of the resulting secret is determined after participants perform this
commitment round (before having revealed their inputs).
In a later work, Gennaro et al. [14] prove that Pedersen’s DKG as originally de-
scribed [23] is secure enough in certain contexts, as the resulting secret is sufﬁciently
random despite the chance for bias from a misbehaving participant adaptively select-
ing their input after seeing inputs from other participants. However, Pedersen’s DKG
requires larger security parameters to achieve the same level of security as the modi-
ﬁed variant by Gennaro et al. [15] that requires the additional commitment round. In
short, the two-round Pedersen’s DKG [23] requires a larger group to be as secure as
the three-round DKG presented by Gennaro et al. [15].
2.4 Schnorr Signatures
Often, it is desirable for signatures produced by threshold signing operations to be in-
distinguishable from signatures produced by a single participant, for reasons of back-
wards compatibility and to prevent privacy leaks. For our work, we require signatures
5

produced by FROST signing operations to be indistinguishable from Schnorr signa-
tures [27], and thus veriﬁable using the standard Schnorr veriﬁcation operation.
A Schnorr signature is generated over a message m, under secret key s∈ Zq and
public keyY =gs∈ G, (employing a signature format similar to EdDSA [17]) by the
following steps:
1. Sample a random nonce k
$
← Zq; compute the commitmentR =gk∈ G
2. Compute the challenge c =H(R,Y,m )
3. Using the secret key s, compute the responsez =k +s·c∈ Zq
4. Deﬁne the signature over m to beσ = (R,z )
Validating the integrity of m using the public key Y and the signature σ is per-
formed as follows:
1. Parse σ as (R,z ); derivec =H(R,Y,m )
2. Compute R′ =gz·Y−c
3. Output 1 if R
?
=R′ to indicate success; otherwise, output 0.
Schnorr signatures are simply the standard Σ-protocol proof of knowledge of the
discrete logarithm ofY , made non-interactive (and bound to the message m) with the
Fiat-Shamir transform.
2.5 Attacks on Parallelized Schnorr Multisignatures
Attack via Wagner’s Algorithm. We next describe an attack recently introduced by
Drijvers et al. [10] against some two-round Schnorr multisignature schemes when the
adversary is allowed to open multiple simultaneous signing operations and describe
how this attack applies to a threshold setting. This attack can be performed when the
adversary has control over either choosing the messagem to be signed, or the ability to
adaptively choose its own individual commitments used to determine the group com-
mitmentR after seeing commitments from all other signing parties. In Section 5.2 and
Section 6 we discuss how FROST avoids the attack.
Successfully performing the Drijvers attack 2 requires ﬁnding a hash output c∗ =
H(R∗,Y,m∗) that is the sum of T other hash outputs c∗ = ∑T
j=1H(Rj,Y,m j)
(where c∗ is the challenge, mj the message, Y the public signing key, and Rj the
group’s commitment corresponding to a standard Schnorr signature as described in
Section 2.4). To ﬁnd T hash outputs that sum toc∗, the adversary can open many (say
T number of) parallel simultaneous signing operations, varying in each of theT paral-
lel executions either its individual commitment used to determineRj ormj. Drijvers et
al. use thek-tree algorithm of Wagner [30] to ﬁnd such hashes and perform the attack
in timeO(κ·b· 2b/(1+lgκ)), whereκ =T + 1, andb is the bitlength of the order of the
group.
Although this attack was proposed in a multisignature n-out-of-n setting, this at-
tack applies similarly in a threshold t-out-of-n setting with the same parameters for
2Note that we slightly modify this attack to include the public key Y as an input into H to match the
notation used in this paper.
6

an adversary that controls up to t− 1 participants. We note that the threshold scheme
instantiated using Pedersen’s DKG by Gennaro et al. [14] is likewise affected by this
technique and so similarly has an upper bound to the amount of parallelism that can be
safely allowed.
In Section 5.2 we discuss how FROST avoids the attack by ensuring that an attacker
will not gain an advantage by adaptively choosing its own commitment (or that of any
other of the signing participants) used to determine Rj, or adaptively selecting the
message being signed.
Drijvers et al. [10] also present a metareduction for the proofs of several Schnorr
multisignature schemes that use a generalization of the forking lemma with rewinding,
highlighting that the security of this proof technique does not extend to a multi-party
setting. Because our proofs of security for FROST (presented in Section 6) reduce to
the hardness of the discrete logarithm problem for the underlying group, as opposed to
the one-more discrete logarithm problem, the metareduction presented by Drijvers et
al. [10] does not apply to our proof strategy.
Attack via ROS Solver. Benhamouda et al. [5] recently presented a polynomial-
time algorithm that solves the ROS (Random inhomogeneities in a Overdetermined
Solvable system of linear equations) problem. As ﬁrst described by Schnorr [26],
the ROS problem challenges an adversary to ﬁnd an (𝓁 + 1)×𝓁 submatrix of rank
𝓁, when given a system of n≫ 𝓁 linear equations modulo q with 𝓁 unknowns and
random constant terms. Benhamouda et al. show how to solve the ROS in expected
polynomial time when 𝓁 > lgq. Solving the ROS problem in the setting of Schnorr
multisignatures enables an adversary that is allowed to open 𝓁 simultaneous connec-
tions to an honest participant with inputs m1,...,m 𝓁 to produce a (𝓁 + 1)th signature
without asking the participant for a signature on m𝓁+1. The authors demonstrate that
threshold schemes using Gennaro et al.’s DKG [15] and multisignature schemes such
as two-round MuSig [21] are not secure against their ROS-solving algorithm. How-
ever, the authors conclude that (the current version of) FROST is not affected by their
ROS-solving algorithm.
3 Related Work
We now review prior threshold schemes with a focus on Schnorr-based designs, and
split our review into robust and non-robust schemes. Robust schemes ensure that so
long ast participants correctly follow the protocol, the protocol is guaranteed to com-
plete successfully, even if a subset of participants (at mostn−t) contribute malformed
shares. Conversely, designs that are not robust simply abort after detecting any partici-
pant misbehaviour.
Robust Threshold Schemes. Stinson and Strobl [29] present a threshold signa-
ture scheme producing Schnorr signatures, using the modiﬁcation of Pedersen’s DKG
presented by Gennaro et al. [15] to generate both the secret key s during key gener-
ation as well as the random nonce k for each signing operation. This construction
requires at minimum four rounds for each signing operation (assuming no participant
misbehaves): three rounds to perform the DKG to obtaink, and one round to distribute
signature shares and compute the group signature. Each round requires participants to
7

send values to every other participant.
Gennaro et al. [14] present a threshold Schnorr signature protocol that uses a mod-
iﬁcation of Pedersen’s DKG [23] to generate both s during key generation and the
random nonce k for signing operations. However, their construction requires all n
signers to participate in signing, while the adversary is allowed to control up to the
given threshold number of participants. Recall from Section 2.3 that Pedersen’s DKG
requires two rounds; this construction requires an additional round for signing opera-
tions when all participants are equally trusted. Each round requires that all participants
send values to all other participants. The authors also discuss an optimization that
leverages a signature aggregator role, an entity trusted to gather signatures from each
participant, perform validation, and publish the resulting signature, a role we also adopt
in our work. In their optimized variant, participants can perform Pedersen’s DKG to
generate multiplek values in a pre-processing stage independently of performing sign-
ing operations. In this variant, to compute𝓁 signatures, signers ﬁrst perform two rounds
of𝓁 parallel executions of Pedersen’s DKG, thereby generating𝓁 random nonces. The
signers can then store these pre-processed values to later perform 𝓁 single-round sign-
ing operations.
Our work builds upon the key generation stage of Gennaro et al. [14]; we use a
variant of Pedersen’s DKG for key generation with a requirement that in the case of
misbehaviour, the protocol aborts and the cause investigated out of band. However,
FROST does not perform a DKG during signing operations as is done in both of the
above schemes, but instead make use of additive secret sharing and share conversion.
Consequently, FROST trades off robustness for more efﬁcient signing operations, such
that a misbehaving participant can cause the signing operation to abort. However, such
a tradeoff is practical to many real-world settings.
Further, because FROST does not provide robustness, FROST is secure so long as
the adversary controls fewer than the threshold t participants, an improvement over
robust designs, which can at best provide security fort≤n/2 [15].
Non-Robust Threshold Schemes. FROST is not unique in trading off favouring
increased network efﬁciency over robustness. Gennaro and Goldfeder [12] present a
threshold ECDSA scheme that similarly requires aborting the protocol in the case of
participant misbehaviour. Their signing construction uses a two-round DKG to gener-
ate the nonce required for the ECDSA signature, leveraging additive-to-multiplicative
share conversion. This DKG has been also applied in a Schnorr threshold scheme
context to generate the random nonce for more efﬁcient distributed key generation op-
erations [18] in combination with threshold Schnorr signing operations [29]. In later
work [13], Gennaro and Goldfeder deﬁne an optimization to a single-round ECDSA
signing operation with a preprocessing stage, which assumes the protocol will abort in
the case of failure or participant misbehaviour. Their end-to-end protocol with identi-
ﬁable aborts has eight network rounds, six of which require broadcasting to all other
signing participants, and two of which require performing pairwise multiplicative-to-
additive share conversion protocols. Further, while the protocol can be optimized into
a preprocessing phase, the choice of the signing coalition must be determined at the
time of preprocessing. FROST deﬁnes a more efﬁcient preprocessing phase as secret
nonces can be generated in a distributed manner in the preprocessing phase entirely
non-interactively. Further, participants can “mix” preprocessed values across different
8

signing coalitions, as FROST requires that the choice for the signing coalition be made
only during the signing stage.
Recent work by Damg˚ard et al. [9] deﬁne an efﬁcient threshold ECDSA construc-
tion that similarly requires aborting in the case of misbehaviour. Their design relies on
generating a blinding factord +m·e such that whered ande are 2t secret sharings of
zero, such that the entire binding factor evaluates to zero when all signing parties are
honest and agree onm. This approach is similar to FROST in that signature shares are
bound to the message and to the set of signing parties. However, the security of their
scheme requires the majority of participants to be honest, andn≥ 2t+1. Further, their
scheme requires alln participants take part in signing operations, where the threshold
t is simply a security parameter.
Similarly to FROST, Abidin, Aly, and Mustafa [1] present a design for authentica-
tion between devices, and use additive secret sharing to generate the nonce for Schnorr
signatures in a threshold setting, a technique also used by FROST. However, the authors
do not consider the Drijvers attack and consequently their design is similarly limited to
restricted levels of parallelism. Further, their design does not include validity checks
for responses submitted by participants when generating signatures and consequently
does not detect nor identify misbehaving participants.
FROST improves upon prior work in Schnorr threshold schemes by providing a
single-round signing variant with a preprocessing stage that is agnostic to the choice
of the signing coalition. Further, the number of signing participants in FROST is re-
quired to be simply somet≤n, while remaining secure against the Drijvers attack and
misbehaving participants who do not correctly follow the protocol.
4 Preliminaries
Letn be the number of participants in the signature scheme, andt denote the threshold
of the secret-sharing scheme. Let i denote the participant identiﬁer for participantPi
where 1≤i≤n. Letsi be the long-lived secret share for participantPi. LetY denote
the long-lived public key shared by all participants in the threshold signature scheme,
and let Yi = gsi be the public key share for the participant Pi. Finally, let m be the
message to be signed.
Letα be the number of participants performing a signing operation, wheret≤α≤
n. For a set S ={p1,...,p α} ofα participant identiﬁers in the signing operation, let
λi = ∏α
j=1,j⁄=i
pj
pj−pi
denote the Lagrange coefﬁcient corresponding to participant i
for interpolating over S. Note that the information to derive these values depends on
whichα (out of n) participants are selected, and uses only the participant identiﬁers,
and not their shares.3
Security Assumptions. We maintain the following assumptions, which implemen-
tations should account for in practice.
- Message Validation. We assume every participant checks the validity of the message
m to be signed before issuing its signature share.
3Note that if n is small, the Lagrange coefﬁcients for every possible combination of signers S can be
precomputed as a performance optimization.
9

- Reliable Message Delivery.We assume messages are sent between participants using
a reliable network channel.
- Participant Identiﬁcation. In order to report misbehaving participants, we require
that values submitted by participants to be identiﬁable within the signing group.
Implementations can enforce this using a method of participant authentication within
the signing group.4
5 FROST: Flexible Round-Optimized Schnorr Thresh-
old Signatures
We now present FROST, a Flexible Round-Optimized Schnorr Threshold signature
scheme that minimizes the network overhead of producing Schnorr signatures in a
threshold setting while allowing for unrestricted parallelism of signing operations and
only a threshold number of signing participants.
Efﬁciency over Robustness. As described in Section 3, prior threshold signature
constructions [14,29] provide the property of robustness; if one participant misbehaves
and provides malformed shares, the remaining honest participants can detect the misbe-
haviour, exclude the misbehaving participant, and complete the protocol, so long as the
number of remaining honest participants is at least the thresholdt. However, in settings
where one can expect misbehaving participants to be rare, threshold signing protocols
can be relaxed to be more efﬁcient in the “optimistic” case that all participants honestly
follow the protocol. In the case that a participant does misbehave, honest participants
can identify the misbehaving participant and abort the protocol, and then re-run the
protocol after excluding the misbehaving participant. FROST trades off robustness in
the protocol for improved round efﬁciency in this way.
Signature Aggregator Role. We instantiate FROST using a semi-trustedsignature
aggregator role, denoted asSA. Such a role allows for less communication overhead
between signers and is often practical in a real-world setting. However, FROST can be
instantiated without a signature aggregator; each participant simply performs a broad-
cast in place ofSA performing coordination.
The signature aggregator role can be performed by any participant in the protocol,
or even an external party, provided they know the participants’ public-key shares Yi.
SA is trusted to report misbehaving participants and to publish the group’s signature
at the end of the protocol. If SA deviates from the protocol, the protocol remains
secure against adaptive chosen message attacks, as SA is not given any more of a
privileged view than the adversary we model in our proof of security for FROST in
Section 6. A malicious SA does have the power to perform denial-of-service attacks
and to falsely report misbehaviour by participants, but cannot learn the private key or
cause improper messages to be signed. Note this signature aggregator role is also used
in prior threshold signature constructions in the literature [14] as an optimization.
4For example, authentication tokens or TLS certiﬁcates could serve to authenticate participants to one
another.
10

5.1 Key Generation
To generate long-lived key shares in our scheme’s key generation protocol, FROST
builds upon Pedersen’s DKG for key generation; we detail these protocol steps in Fig-
ure 1. Note that Pedersen’s DKG is simply where each participant executes Feldman’s
VSS as the dealer in parallel, and derives their secret share as the sum of the shares
received from each of the n VSS executions. In addition to the base Pedersen DKG
protocol, FROST additionally requires each participant to demonstrate knowledge of
their secretai0 by providing other participants with proof in zero knowledge, instanti-
ated as a Schnorr signature, to protect against rogue-key attacks [2] in the setting where
t≥n/2.
To begin the key generation protocol, a set of participants must be formed using
some out-of-band mechanism decided upon by the implementation. After participating
in the Ped-DKG protocol, each participant Pi holds a value (i,si) that is their long-
lived secret signing share. Participant Pi’s public key shareYi = gsi is used by other
participants to verify the correctness of Pi’s signature shares in the following signing
phase, while the group public key Y can be used by parties external to the group to
verify signatures issued by the group in the future.
View of Commitment Values. As required for any multi-party protocol using
Feldman’s VSS, the key generation stage in FROST similarly requires participants to
maintain a consistent view of commitments ⃗Ci, 1≤i≤n issued during the execution
of Ped-DKG. In this work, we assume participants broadcast the commitment values
honestly (e.g., participants do not provide different commitment values to a subset of
participants); recall Section 2.1 where we described techniques to achieve this guaran-
tee in practice.
Security tradeoffs. While Gennaro et al. [15] describe the “Stop, Kill, and Rewind”
variant of Ped-DKG (where the protocol terminates and is re-run if misbehaviour is de-
tected) as vulnerable to inﬂuence by the adversary, we note that in a real-world setting,
good security practices typically require that the cause of misbehaviour is investigated
once it has been detected; the protocol is not allowed to terminate and re-run continu-
ously until the adversary ﬁnds a desirable output. Further, many protocols in practice
do not prevent an adversary from aborting and re-executing key agreement at any point
in the protocol; adversaries in protocols such as the widely used TLS protocol can skew
the distribution of the resulting key simply by re-running the protocol.
However, implementations wishing for a robust DKG can adapt our key generation
protocol to the robust construction presented by Gennaro et al. [15]. Note that the
efﬁciency of the DKG for the key generation phase is not extremely critical, because
this operation must be done only once per key generation for long-lived keys. For the
per-signature operations, FROST optimizes the generation of random values without
utilizing a DKG, as discussed next.
5.2 Threshold Signing with Unrestricted Parallelism
We now introduce the signing protocol for FROST. This operation builds upon known
techniques in the literature [1, 14] by employing additive secret sharing and share con-
version to non-interactively generate the nonce value for each signature. However,
11

FROST KeyGen
Round 1
1. Every participantPi samplest random values (ai0,...,a i(t−1)))
$
← Zq, and
uses these values as coefﬁcients to deﬁne a degreet− 1 polynomial
fi(x) = ∑t−1
j=0aijxj.
2. EveryPi computes a proof of knowledge to the corresponding secretai0 by
calculatingσi = (Ri,µi), such thatk
$
← Zq,Ri =gk,
ci =H(i, Φ,gai0,Ri),µi =k +ai0·ci, with Φ being a context string to
prevent replay attacks.
3. Every participantPi computes a public commitment ⃗Ci =⟨φi0,...,φ i(t−1)⟩,
whereφij =gaij , 0≤j≤t− 1
4. EveryPi broadcasts ⃗Ci,σi to all other participants.
5. Upon receiving ⃗C𝓁,σ𝓁 from participants 1≤𝓁≤n,𝓁⁄=i, participantPi
veriﬁesσ𝓁 = (R𝓁,µ𝓁), aborting on failure, by checkingR𝓁
?
=gµ𝓁·φ−c𝓁
𝓁0 ,
wherec𝓁 =H (𝓁, Φ,φ𝓁0,R𝓁).
Upon success, participants delete{σ𝓁 : 1≤𝓁≤n}.
Round 2
1. EachPi securely sends to each other participantP𝓁 a secret share (𝓁,fi(𝓁)),
deletingfi and each share afterward except for (i,fi(i)), which they keep
for themselves.
2. EachPi veriﬁes their shares by calculating:gf𝓁(i) ?
= ∏t−1
k=0φik modq
𝓁k , aborting
if the check fails.
3. EachPi calculates their long-lived private signing share by computing
si = ∑n
𝓁=1f𝓁(i), storessi securely, and deletes eachf𝓁(i).
4. EachPi calculates their public veriﬁcation shareYi =gsi, and the group’s
public keyY = ∏n
j=1φj0. Any participant can compute the public
veriﬁcation share of any other participant by calculating
Yi =
n∏
j=1
t−1∏
k=0
φik modq
jk .
Figure 1: KeyGen. A distributed key generation (DKG) protocol that builds upon the
DKG by Pedersen [23]. Our variant includes a protection against rogue key attacks
by requiring each participant to prove knowledge of their secret value commits, and
requires aborting on misbehaviour.
12

Preprocess(π)→ (i,⟨(Dij,Eij)⟩π
j=1)
Each participantPi,i∈{ 1,...,n } performs this stage prior to signing. Letj be
a counter for a speciﬁc nonce/commitment share pair, andπ be the number of
pairs generated at a time, such thatπ signing operations can be performed before
performing another preprocess step.
1. Create an empty listLi. Then, for 1≤j≤π, perform the following:
1.a Sample single-use nonces (dij,eij)
$
← Z∗
q× Z∗
q
1.b Derive commitment shares (Dij,Eij) = (gdij,geij).
1.c Append (Dij,Eij) toLi. Store ((dij,Dij), (eij,Eij)) for later use in
signing operations.
2. Publish (i,Li) to a predetermined location, as speciﬁed by the
implementation.
Figure 2: FROST Preprocessing Protocol
signing operations in FROST additionally leverage a binding technique to avoid known
forgery attacks without limiting concurrency. We present FROST signing in two parts:
a pre-processing phase and a single-round signing phase. However, these stages can be
combined for a single two-round protocol if desired.
As a reminder, the attack of Drijvers et al. [10] requires the adversary to either
see the victim’sT commitment values before selecting their own commitment, or to
adaptively choose the message to be signed, so that the adversary can manipulate the
resulting challenge c for the set of participants performing a group signing operation.
To prevent this attack without limiting concurrency, FROST “binds” each participant’s
response to a speciﬁc message as well as the set of participants and their commitments
used for that particular signing operation. In doing so, combining responses over differ-
ent messages or participant/commitment pairs results in an invalid signature, thwarting
attacks such as those of Drijvers et al.
Preprocessing Stage. We present in Figure 2 a preprocessing stage where partic-
ipants generate and publish π commitments at a time. In this setting, π determines
the number of nonces that are generated and their corresponding commitments that are
published in a single preprocess step. Implementations that do not wish to cache com-
mitments can instead use a two-round signing protocol, where participants publish a
single commitment to each other in the ﬁrst round.
Each participantPi begins by generating a list ofsingle-use private nonce pairs and
corresponding public commitment shares⟨((dij,Dij = gdij), (eij,Eij = geij))⟩π
j=1,
wherej is a counter that identiﬁes the next nonce/commitment share pair available to
use for signing. Each Pi then publishes (i,Li), where Li is their list of commitment
13

shares Li =⟨(Dij,Eij)⟩π
j=1. The location where participants publish these values
can depend on the implementation (which we discuss further in Section 7). The set of
(i,Li) tuples are then stored by any entity that might perform the signature aggregator
role during signing.
Signing Protocol. At the beginning of the signing protocol in Figure 3,SA selects
α : t≤ α≤ n participants (possibly including itself) to participate in the signing.
LetS be the set of those α participants. SA then selects the next available commit-
ment (Di,Ei) : i∈ S, which are later used to generate a secret share to a random
commitmentR for the signing group.5
The resulting secret nonce is k = ∑
i∈Ski, where eachki =di +ei·ρi (we next
describe how participants calculateρi), and (di,ei) correspond to the (Di =gdi,Ei =
gei) values published during the Preprocess stage. Recall from Section 2.1 that if the
ki are additive shares ofk, then the ki
λi
are Shamir shares ofk, such that eachλi is the
Lagrange coefﬁcient for theith participant over the setS.
After these steps,SA then creates the set B, where B is the ordered list of tuples
⟨(i,Di,Ei)⟩i∈S.SA then sends (m,B ) to everyPi,i∈S.
After receiving (m,B ) fromSA to initialize a signing operation, each participant
checks thatm is a message they are willing to sign. Then, using m andB, all partici-
pants derive the “binding values”ρi,i∈S such thatρi =H1(i,m,B ), whereH1 is a
hash function whose outputs are in Z∗
q.
Each participant then computes the commitment Ri for each participant in S by
derivingRi =Di· (Ei)ρi. Doing so binds the message, the set of signing participants,
and each participant’s commitment to each signature share. This binding technique
thwarts the attack of Drijvers et al. described in Section 2.5 as attackers cannot combine
signature shares across disjoint signing operations or permute the set of signers or
published commitments for each signer.
The commitment for the set of signers is then simply R = ∏
i∈SRi. As in single-
party Schnorr signatures, each participant computes the challengec =H2(R,Y,m ).
Each participant’s responsezi to the challenge can be computed using the single-
use nonces (di,ei) and the long-term secret sharessi, converted to additive form:
zi =di + (ei·ρi) +λi·si·c
SA ﬁnally checks the consistency of each participant’s reportedzi with their com-
mitment share (Di,Ei) and their public key share Yi. If every participant issued a
correct zi, the group’s response is z = ∑
i∈Szi, and the group signature on m is
σ = (R,z ). This signature is veriﬁable to anyone performing a standard Schnorr veri-
ﬁcation operation withY as the public key (Section 2.4).
Handling Ephemeral Outstanding Shares. Because each nonce and commitment
share generated during the preprocessing stage described in Figure 2 must be used
at most once , participants should delete these values after using them in a signing
operation, as indicated in Step 5 in Figure 3. An accidentally reused (dij,eij) can lead
to exposure of the participant’s long-term secretsi.
5Each participant contributes to the group commitment R, which corresponds to the commitment gk to
the noncek in step 1 of the single-party Schnorr signature scheme in Section 2.4.
14

Sign(m)→ (m,σ )
LetSA denote the signature aggregator (who themselves can be one of the
signing participants). LetS be the set ofα :t≤α≤n participants selected for
this signing operation, andY be the group public key. LetB =⟨(i,Di,Ei)⟩i∈S
denote the ordered list of participant indices corresponding to each participantPi,
si bePi’s secret key share, andLi be the set of commitment values forPi that
were published during the Preprocess stage. Each identiﬁer i is coupled with the
commitments (Di,Ei) published byPi that will be used for this signing
operation. LetH1,H 2 be hash functions whose outputs are in Z∗
q.
1. SA begins by fetching the next available commitment for each participant
Pi∈S fromLi and constructsB.
2. For eachi∈S,SA sendsPi the tuple (m,B ).
3. After receiving (m,B ), eachPi ﬁrst validates the messagem, and then checks
D𝓁,E𝓁∈ G∗ for each commitment inB, aborting if either check fails.
4. EachPi then computes the set of binding valuesρ𝓁 =H1(𝓁,m,B ),𝓁∈S.
EachPi then derives the group commitmentR = ∏
𝓁∈SD𝓁· (E𝓁)ρ𝓁, and
the challengec =H2(R,Y,m ).
5. EachPi computes their response using their long-lived secret sharesi by
computingzi =di + (ei·ρi) +λi·si·c, usingS to determine theith
Lagrange coefﬁcientλi.
6. EachPi securely deletes ((di,Di), (ei,Ei)) from their local storage, and then
returnszi toSA.
7. The signature aggregatorSA performs the following steps:
7.a Deriveρi =H1(i,m,B ) andRi =Dij· (Eij)ρi fori∈S, and
subsequentlyR = ∏
i∈SRi andc =H2(R,Y,m ).
7.b Verify the validity of each response by checkinggzi ?
=Ri·Yi
c·λi for
each signing sharezi,i∈S. If the equality does not hold, identify
and report the misbehaving participant, and then abort. Otherwise,
continue.
7.c Compute the group’s responsez = ∑zi
7.d Publishσ = (R,z ) along withm.
Figure 3: FROST Single-Round Signing Protocol
15

However, ifSA chooses to re-use a commitment set (Di,Ei) during the signing
protocol, doing so simply results in the participant Pi aborting the protocol, and con-
sequently does not increase the power ofSA.
6 Security
We now present proofs of correctness and a high-level overview of our proof of security
against chosen-message attacks for FROST. We present our complete proofs of security
in Appendix A.
6.1 Correctness
Signatures in FROST are constructed from two polynomials; the ﬁrst polynomialF1(x)
deﬁnes the secret sharing of the private signing key s (such that Y = gs) and the
second polynomial F2(x) deﬁnes the secret sharing of the nonce k such that k =∑
i∈Sdi+ei·ρi using the associated public data(m,B ) to determineρi. During the key
generation phase described in Figure 1, the ﬁrst polynomial F1(x) = ∑n
j=1fj(x) is
generated such that the secret key shares aresi =F1(i) and the secret key iss =F1(0).
During the signature phase (Figure 3), each of the α : t≤ α≤ n participants
selected for signing use a pair of nonces (di,ei) to deﬁne a degree α− 1 polynomial
F2(x), interpolating the values(i, di+ei·H1(i,m,B)
λi
), such thatF2(0) = ∑
i∈Sdi+ei·ρi.
Then let F3(x) = F2(x) +c·F1(x), where c = H2(R,Y,m ). Now zi equals
di + (ei·ρi) +λi·si·c = λi(F2(i) +c·F1(i)) = λiF3(i), so z = ∑
i∈Szi is
simply the Lagrange interpolation of F3(0) = ( ∑
i∈Sdi +eij·ρi) +c·s. Because
R =g
∑
i∈Sdi+ei·ρi andc =H2(R,Y,m ), (R,z ) is a correct Schnorr signature onm.
6.2 Security Against Chosen Message Attacks
We now present a high-level overview of the proof of security against chosen-message
attacks for FROST; our complete proofs are in Appendix A. We begin by summarizing
a proof of security for an interactive variant of FROST that we call FROST-Interactive,
and then demonstrate how the proof extends to plain FROST.
We employ the generalized forking strategy used by Bellare and Neven [3] to cre-
ate a reduction to the security of the discrete logarithm problem (DLP) inG. We prove
security against the standard notion of existential unforgeability against chosen mes-
sage attacks (EUF-CMA) by demonstrating that the difﬁculty to an adversary to forge
FROST signatures by performing an adaptively chosen message attack in the random
oracle model reduces to the difﬁculty of computing the discrete logarithm of an arbi-
trary challenge valueω in the underlying group, so long as the adversary controls fewer
than the thresholdt participants.
FROST-Interactive. In FROST-Interactive,ρi is established using a “one-time”
veriﬁable random function (VRF), 6 asρi = aij + (bij·Hρ(m,B )), where (aij,bij)
are selected and committed to as (Aij = gaij,Bij = gbij) during the preprocessing
6A one-time VRF Fk for key k relaxes the standard properties of a VRF by requiring that Fk(x) be
unpredictable to someone who does not know k only when at most one value of Fk(y) has been published
16

stage, along with zero-knowledge proofs of knowledge of (aij,bij). To perform a
signing operation, participants ﬁrst generateρi in the ﬁrst round of the signing protocol
using (aij,bij), and then publish ρi to the signature aggregator, which distributes all
ρ𝓁,𝓁 ∈ S to all signing participants. These ρ𝓁,𝓁 ∈ S values are then used by all
signing participants to compute R in the second round of the signing protocol, which
participants use to calculate and publishzi.
Summary of proof for EUF-CMA security for FROST-Interactive. Letnh be
the number of queries made to the random oracle, np be the number of allowed pre-
process queries, and ns be the number of allowed signing queries. We assume there
exists a forgerF that (τ,nh,np,ns,ϵ )-breaks FROST-Interactive, meaning thatF can
compute a forgery for a signature generated by FROST-Interactive in timeτ with suc-
cess ϵ, but is limited to making nh number of random oracle queries, np number of
preprocess queries, and ns number of signing queries. We construct an algorithm C
that (τ′,ϵ′)-solves the discrete logarithm problem inG, for an arbitrary challenge value
ω∈ G, using as a subroutine a forgerF that can forge FROST signatures.
More speciﬁcally, our proof strategy embeds ω in the public key Y generated by
FROST;F performs its attack to produce forged signatures under Y by interacting
with a simulatorA that simulates the environment and honest participants.F is forked
during its execution, resulting in two forgeries (σ = (R,z ),σ′ = (R,z′)), which are
used to solve the DLP forω.
Without loss of generality, we assumeF controlst− 1 participants.
Theorem 6.1. If the discrete logarithm problem in G is (τ′,ϵ′)-hard, then the FROST-
Interactive signature scheme over G withn signing participants, a threshold oft, and
a preprocess batch size ofπ is (τ,nh,np,ns,ϵ )-secure whenever
ϵ′≤ ϵ2
2nh + (π + 1)np + 1 and
τ′ = 4τ + (30πnp + (4t− 2)ns + (n +t− 1)t + 6)·texp +O(πnp +ns +nh + 1)
such that texp is the time of an exponentiation in G, assuming the number of partici-
pants compromised by the adversary is less than the thresholdt.
Proof Sketch for FROST-Interactive. We provide our complete proof in Appendix A,
but summarize here. We prove Theorem 6.1 by contradiction.
We begin by embedding the challenge value ω into the group public key Y . The
coordinator algorithmC then uses the generalized forking algorithmGFA to initialize
the simulatorA(Y,{h1,...,h nr};β), providing the group public key Y , outputs for
nr = 2nh + (π + 1)np + 1 random oracle queries denoted as {h1,...,h nr}
$
← H,
and the random tape β. A then invokes the forger F, simulating the responses to
F’s random oracle queries by providing values selected from{h1,...,h nr}, and also
simulates the honest partyPt in the KeyGen, Preprocess, and Sign procedures.
To simulate signing without knowing the secret key corresponding toPt’s own pub-
lic keyYt,A generates the commitment and signature for participantPt by publishing
by the keyholder (andy⁄=x). We use the constructionk = (a,b )∈ Z2
q andFk(x) = a +b·x. The public
key is (A =ga,B =gb).
17

(Dtj =gztj·(Yt)−cj,Etj) such thatztj
$
← Zq,cj is the next unused value from the set
of random oracle outputs supplied by GFA, andEtj =getj,etj
$
← Z∗
q. To determine
which challengecj to return for a particular commitment(Dij,Eij) when simulating a
signing operation,A forksF to extract its(aij,bij) VRF keys from its zero-knowledge
proofs during Preprocess for each participantP𝓁 controlled byF, and consequently can
directly compute its corresponding ρ𝓁. Hence,A can computeR strictly beforeF for
every signing query, and thus can always correctly program the random oracle for the
queryH2(R,Y,m ) to return the correctcj embedded inDtj.
OnceA has returned a valid forgery σ = (R,z ) and the indexJ associated to the
random oracle queryhJ such thathJ =c,GFA re-executesA with the same random
tapeβ and public keyY , but with responses to random oracle queries
{h1,...,h J−1,h′
J,...,h ′
nr}, where {h′
J,...,h ′
nr}
$
← H. Doing so simulates the
“forking” ofA at a speciﬁc point in its execution, such that all behaviour of A is
identical between executions up to theJ th random oracle query, but different thereafter.
Consequently, given a forgerF that with probabilityϵ produces a valid forgery, the
probability thatA returns a valid forgery for FROST-Interactive isϵ, and the probability
thatGFA returns two valid forgeries using thesame commitment after forkingA is ϵ2
nr
.
The running time for C to compute the discrete logarithm by procuring two forg-
eries from FROST-Interactive is four times that for F (because of the forking of A,
which itself forksF), plus the time to compute(30πnp +(4t−2)ns +(n+t−1)t+6)
exponentiations, and O(πnp +ns +nh + 1) other minor operations, such as table
lookups.
Extension of Proof to FROST.We now heuristically demonstrate how the change
from FROST-Interactive to FROST does not open a hole in the proof. The difference
between FROST-Interactive and FROST is the replacement of the interactive VRF in
FROST-Interactive with a hash function (modelled by a random oracle) to derive ρi.
This change still achieves the properties required ofρi, as deterministic, unpredictable,
and bound to (i,m,B ). However, the key distinction when generating ρi via a VRF
versus a hash function is that in FROST-Interactive, the VRF query is part of the signing
algorithm, and so each such query uses up a (di,ei) pair; therefore, the adversary can
learn only one ρi(m,B ) value for any given (i,Di,Ei)∈ B, and importantly, this
allows the simulatorA in the proof to always be able to setH2(R,Y,m ) to the correct
cj value. In plain FROST, the adversary can query the random oracleρi =H1(i,m,B )
polynomially many times, even with the same (i,Di,Ei)∈B. The adversary will be
able to produce a forgery if7 (slightly generalizing the Drijvers attack to arbitrary linear
combinations instead of just sums) they can ﬁndm∗,r∗, and⟨mj,Bj,γj⟩π
j=1 such that
H2(R∗,Y,m∗) =
π∑
j=1
γj·H2(Rj,Y,m j) (1)
7This is the main heuristic step; sufﬁciency (“if”) is immediate, but we do not prove necessity (“only
if”). That said, the only information the forger has about honest participant Pt’s private keyst isYt =gst
andπ pairs (gkj,zj =kj +st·λt·H2(Rj,Y,m j ))π
j=1. If the forger can produce a forgery, they must
necessarily be able to compute a pair (gk∗
,z ∗ =k∗ +st·λt·H2(R∗,Y,m ∗)). Assuming taking discrete
logs is infeasible, writing z∗ as a linear combination of the zj (as polynomials in the unknown st) appears
to be the forger’s only reasonable strategy.
18

where Rj =
∏
(i,D,E)∈Bj
D·EH1(i,mj,Bj), ˆRj = Djt·EH1(i,mj,Bj)
jt , R∗ = gr∗
·
π∏
j=1
ˆRj
γj
, each Bj contains the honest party’s (t,Djt,Ejt), and m∗ is not one of the
mj.
Importantly, the key difference between FROST and schemes susceptible to the
Drijvers attack is that in FROST, the R∗ in the left side of Equation 1 is itself a func-
tion of all the inputs to the hash functions on the right side. Drijvers can use Wagner’s
generalized birthday attack [30] because the left and right sides of Equation 1 are in-
dependent for schemes vulnerable to their attack, and so Wagner’s algorithm can ﬁnd a
collision between a list of possible values on the left (the(m∗,R∗) terms) and a (larger)
list of possible values on the right (the(mj,Rj) terms). In FROST, however, each com-
bination of values on the right changesR∗, and so the list of possible values on the left
(varyingm∗, for example) changes for each such combination, increasing the cost to
an attacker from the generalized birthday collision attack to multiple preimage attacks.
As such, we heuristically argue that the difference between generating ρi via the
one-time VRF in FROST-Interactive and the random oracle in plain FROST has no
security consequence.
6.3 Aborting on Misbehaviour
FROST requires participants to abort once they have detected misbehaviour, with the
beneﬁt of fewer communication rounds in an honest setting.
If one of the signing participants provides an incorrect signature share, SA will
detect that and abort the protocol, ifSA is itself behaving correctly. The protocol can
then be rerun with the misbehaving party removed. If SA is itself misbehaving, and
even if up tot− 1 participants are corrupted,SA still cannot produce a valid signature
on a message not approved by at least one honest participant.
7 Implementation and Operational Considerations
We have implemented FROST in Rust, using Ristretto over curve25519 [19] for the
group operations. Our source code can be found at https://crysp.uwaterloo.ca/software/
frost.
We now discuss two topics that may be of interest to implementors.
Publishing Commitments. The preprocessing step for FROST in Section 5.2 re-
quires some agreed-upon location for participants to publish their commitments to,
such as a commitment server, which is trusted to provide the correct (i.e., valid and
unused) commitment shares upon request. If malicious, it could perform a denial-of-
service attack, or it could provide stale or malformed commitment values on behalf of
honest participants. However, simply having access to the set of a participant’s public
published commitments does not grant any additional powers.
Performing two-round FROST without central roles.While the round complex-
ity of FROST can be optimized using central roles such as the signature aggregator,
some implementations may wish to remain completely decentralized. In this setting,
19

participants can simply broadcast commitments to each other, and perform signing us-
ing a two-round setting (foregoing the preprocessing step) for further simplicity.
8 Conclusion
While threshold signatures provide a unique cryptographic functionality that is appli-
cable across a range of settings, implementations incur network overhead costs when
performing signing operations under heavy load. As such, minimizing the number
of network rounds required for threshold signing operations has practical beneﬁts for
network-limited devices or where signers can go ofﬂine but wish to perform a signing
operation asynchronously. In this work, we introduce FROST, a ﬂexible Schnorr-based
threshold signature scheme that improves upon the state of the art by minimizing the
number of network rounds required for signing without limiting the parallelism of sign-
ing operations. We present an optimized variant of FROST as a single-round signing
protocol with a preprocessing phase, but the protocol can be used in a two-round set-
ting. While FROST requires aborting on misbehaviour, such a tradeoff is often practi-
cal in a real-world setting, assuming such cases of misbehaviour are rare. We present
proofs of security and correctness for FROST, demonstrating FROST is secure against
chosen-message attacks assuming the adversary controls fewer than a threshold num-
ber of participants, and the discrete logarithm problem is hard.
Acknowledgments
We thank the anonymous SAC 2020 reviewers for their feedback, which we have in-
corporated into the current version of the paper. We thank Douglas Stebila for his
discussion on our proof of security and security bounds. We thank Richard Barnes
for his discussion on practical constraints and identifying signiﬁcant optimizations to
a prior version of FROST, which our ﬁnal version of FROST builds upon. We thank
Isis Lovecruft for their discussion and parallel implementation of FROST, as well as
suggestions for performance improvements.
We thank colleagues at the Zcash Foundation for discussions on applications of
threshold signatures, and Omer Shlomovits and Elichai Turkel for pointing out the case
of rogue-key attacks in plain Ped-DKG and the suggestion to use a proof of knowledge
forai0 as a prevention mechanism. We acknowledge the helpful description of additive
secret sharing and share conversion as a technique to non-interactively generate secrets
for Shamir secret-sharing schemes by Lueks [20,§2.5.2].
We thank the Royal Bank of Canada and NSERC grant CRDPJ-534381 for funding
this work. This research was undertaken, in part, thanks to funding from the Canada
Research Chairs program.
References
[1] Aysajan Abidin, Abdelrahaman Aly, and Mustafa A. Mustafa. Collaborative Au-
thentication Using Threshold Cryptography. In Emerging Technologies for Au-
20

thorization and Authentication, pages 122–137, 2020.
[2] Mihir Bellare, Alexandra Boldyreva, and Jessica Staddon. Randomness Re-use in
Multi-recipient Encryption Schemeas. In Public Key Cryptography, pages 85–99,
2003.
[3] Mihir Bellare and Gregory Neven. Multi-Signatures in the Plain Public-Key
Model and a General Forking Lemma. In Proceedings of the 13th ACM Con-
ference on Computer and Communications Security , CCS ’06, pages 390–399,
2006.
[4] Josh Benaloh and Jerry Leichter. Generalized Secret Sharing and Monotone
Functions. In CRYPTO, 1988.
[5] Fabrice Benhamouda, Tancr `ede Lepoint, Michele Orr `u, and Mariana Raykova.
On the (in)security of ROS. Technical Report 2020/945, IACR ePrint, 2020.
https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/945.
[6] Dan Boneh, Manu Drijvers, and Gregory Neven. Compact Multi-signatures for
Smaller Blockchains. In ASIACRYPT, pages 435–464, 2018.
[7] Dan Boneh, Ben Lynn, and Hovav Shacham. Short Signatures from the Weil
Pairing. Journal of Cryptology, 17(4):297–319, Sep 2004.
[8] Ronald Cramer, Ivan Damg ˚ard, and Yuval Ishai. Share Conversion, Pseudoran-
dom Secret-Sharing and Applications to Secure Computation. InTheory of Cryp-
tography, pages 342–362, 2005.
[9] Ivan Damg ˚ard, Thomas Pelle Jakobsen, Jesper Buus Nielsen, Jakob Illeborg
Pagter, and Michael Bæksvang Østerg ˚ard. Fast Threshold ECDSA with Hon-
est Majority. Technical Report 2020/501, IACR ePrint, 2020. https://eprint.iacr.
org/2020/501.
[10] Manu Drijvers, Kasra Edalatnejad, Bryan Ford, Eike Kiltz, Julian Loss, Gregory
Neven, and Igors Stepanovs. On the Security of Two-Round Multi-Signatures.
2019 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages 1084–1101, 2019.
[11] Paul Feldman. A Practical Scheme for Non-interactive Veriﬁable Secret Shar-
ing. In Proceedings of the 28th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer
Science, SFCS ’87, pages 427–438, 1987.
[12] Rosario Gennaro and Steven Goldfeder. Fast Multiparty Threshold ECDSA with
Fast Trustless Setup. In Proceedings of the 2018 ACM SIGSAC Conference on
Computer and Communications Security, CCS ’18, pages 1179–1194, 2018.
[13] Rosario Gennaro and Steven Goldfeder. One Round Threshold ECDSA with
Identiﬁable Abort. Technical Report 2020/540, IACR ePrint, 2020. https://eprint.
iacr.org/2020/540.
21

[14] Rosario Gennaro, Stanislaw Jarecki, Hugo Krawczyk, and Tal Rabin. Secure
Applications of Pedersen’s Distributed Key Generation Protocol. In Topics in
Cryptology — CT-RSA 2003 , pages 373–390, 2003.
[15] Rosario Gennaro, Stanislaw Jarecki, Hugo Krawczyk, and Tal Rabin. Secure
Distributed Key Generation for Discrete-Log Based Cryptosystems. Journal of
Cryptology, 20:51–83, 2007.
[16] Steven Goldfeder, Rosario Gennaro, Harry Kalodner, Joseph Bonneau, Joshua A.
Kroll, Edward W. Felten, and Arvind Narayanan. Securing Bitcoin wallets via
a new DSA/ECDSA threshold signature scheme. http://stevengoldfeder.com/
papers/threshold sigs.pdf, 2015. Accessed Dec 2019.
[17] Simon Josefsson and Ilari Liusvaara. Edwards-Curve Digital Signature Algorithm
(EdDSA). https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8032, January 2017.
[18] KZen Networks. Multi Party Schnorr Signatures. https://github.com/KZen-
networks/multi-party-schnorr, 2019. Accessed Jan 2020.
[19] Isis Lovecruft and Henry de Valence. The Ristretto Group. https://doc.dalek.rs/
curve25519 dalek/, 2020.
[20] Wouter Lueks. Security and Privacy via Cryptography — Having your cake and
eating it too. https://wouterlueks.nl/assets/docs/thesis lueks def.pdf, 2017.
[21] Gregory Maxwell, Andrew Poelstra, Yannick Seurin, and Pieter Wuille. Sim-
ple Schnorr multi-signatures with applications to Bitcoin. Designs, Codes and
Cryptography, 87, 2019.
[22] Prateek Mittal, Femi Olumoﬁn, Carmela Troncoso, Nikita Borisov, and Ian Gold-
berg. PIR-Tor: Scalable Anonymous Communication Using Private Information
Retrieval. In 20th USENIX Security Symposium, SEC’11, 2011.
[23] Torben P. Pedersen. A Threshold Cryptosystem without a Trusted Party (Ex-
tended Abstract). In EUROCRYPT ’91, volume 547 ofLecture Notes in Computer
Science, pages 522–526, 1991.
[24] Torben P. Pedersen. Non-Interactive and Information-Theoretic Secure Veriﬁable
Secret Sharing. In CRYPTO, CRYPTO ’91, pages 129–140, 1991.
[25] David Pointcheval and Jacques Stern. Security Arguments for Digital Signatures
and Blind Signatures. J. Cryptol., 13(3):361–396, January 2000.
[26] C. Schnorr. Security of blind discrete log signatures against interactive attacks.
In ICICS, 2001.
[27] Claus-Peter Schnorr. Efﬁcient Identiﬁcation and Signatures for Smart Cards. In
CRYPTO, 1989.
[28] Adi Shamir. How to share a secret. Communications of the ACM , 22:612–613,
1979.
22

[29] Douglas R. Stinson and Reto Strobl. Provably Secure Distributed Schnorr Sig-
natures and a (t,n ) Threshold Scheme for Implicit Certiﬁcates. In Proceedings
of the 6th Australasian Conference on Information Security and Privacy, ACISP
’01, pages 417–434, 2001.
[30] David Wagner. A Generalized Birthday Problem. In CRYPTO, 2002.
23

A Proof of Security
In Section 6.2, we presented a high-level overview of the proof of security for FROST-
Interactive. We now present the proof in detail.
A.1 Preliminaries
Our proof strategy is to demonstrate that the security of FROST-Interactive reduces
to the difﬁculty of computing the discrete logarithm of an arbitrary challenge value
ω. At a high level, ω will be embedded into a public key Y representing a set of
participants, such thatY is the output of these participants cooperating to perform the
FROST KeyGen protocol. Then, to compute the discrete logarithm ofω, a forgerF will
produce two forgeries (σ,σ′),σ ⁄=σ′ for the same commitment value R and message
m. Using (σ,σ′), the discrete logarithm ofω can subsequently be extracted.
We will now describe how we perform this proof strategy in detail. To begin, we
introduce the different components required to execute this strategy. Our proof relies
on four different algorithms, each with different roles and responsibilities. We describe
these at a high level below, and expand on each in the following sections.
- F represents a forger that with probabilityϵ and in timet can compute a forgery
σ for a public key Y , where Y was generated as part of the FROST KeyGen
protocol.
- A represents a simulator that invokesF and simulates the necessary inputs/outputs
forF to perform its forgery attack. Speciﬁcally,A simulates honest participants
in FROST KeyGen and signing operations, as well as random oracle queries.
- GFA represents the Generalized Forking Algorithm that establishes a random
tape and outputs to random oracle queries, and invokes A with these values in
order to produce two forgeries (σ,σ′).
- C represents the coordination algorithm that accepts a challenge value ω and
invokes the other algorithms in order to obtain (σ,σ′), which it then uses to
compute the discrete logarithm ofω.
Adversary Powers. When performing its forgery attack, we grant F the role of
the signature aggregatorSA. Without loss of generality, we assume F controlst− 1
participants, and has full power over how these participants behave, what secret and
public values they generate, etc. We also assume the participantPt is in the signing set
S.
We now describe in greater detailGFA andC, as these algorithms remain largely
unchanged from their use by Bellare and Neven [3]. We describe the implementation
ofA in the proof directly.
A.1.1 Generalized Forking Algorithm and Lemma
We build upon the Generalized Forking Algorithm and Lemma by Bellare and Neven [3],
for both its simplicity and to ensure that our proof can support concurrent executions
of the signing protocol. In the Generalized Forking Algorithm, the rewinding of the
adversaryA is simulated by invokingA in succession. In each invocation of A, the
same random tape β is supplied, as well as the same public key Y . However, each
24

Algorithm 1 Generalized Forking AlgorithmGFA(Y )
Input A public keyY
Output (1,hJ,h′
J,σ,σ′) ifA produces two forgeries, otherwise⊥
1: Instantiate a random tapeβ
2:{h1,...,h nr}
$
←H
3: (J,σ ) or⊥←A (Y,{h1,...,h nr};β)
4: If⊥, then return⊥
5: h′
J,...,h ′
nr
$
←H
6: (J′,σ′)←A (Y,{h1,...,h J−1,h′
J,...,h ′
nr};β)
7: IfJ
?
=J′ andhJ⁄=h′
J then return (1,hJ,h′
J,σ,σ′). Else, return⊥
execution ofA receives different outputs for a subset of random oracle queries. This
approach is akin to the proof technique by Pointcheval and Stern [25] for plain Schnorr,
which requires running the adversary until a forgery is produced, and then “rewinding”
the adversary back to a speciﬁc point in execution. However, the Generalized Forking
Algorithm does not require rewinding, but instead re-executes A with fresh random-
ness after a speciﬁc random oracle query hJ to simulate the forking ofA. As a result,
each execution ofA is identical before the random oracle query that receives hJ, but
diverges afterward.
We next describe the Generalized Forking Algorithm and corresponding General-
ized Forking Lemma in greater detail.
Generalized Forking Algorithm. Let nr be the maximum number of random
oracle outputs thatA may need to generate, and leth be the number of possible outputs
from the random oracleH.
The adversaryA is an algorithm that accepts as inputs a public keyY , the randomly
selected seth1,...,h nr of random oracle outputs, and a random tapeβ.A outputs an
integerJ which represents the index corresponding to the random oracle query that can
be used to derivec for the forgeryσ = (R,z ), along withσ itself.GFA (Algorithm 1)
plays the role of setting up these inputs and outputs, and executingA accordingly.
The execution GFA is as follows: ﬁrst GFA instantiates a random tape β, and
generates random outputs h1,...,h nr which will then be used by A to simulate the
outputs for each random oracle query. GFA then executes A with these inputs as
well as a public key Y . A uses the forger F as a subroutine to perform its forgery
attack, simulating all input and output whenever F requests a signing operation or
random oracle query. Eventually, F outputs a forgery σ with probability ϵ, whichA
returns along with its corresponding index for the random oracle query that can be
used to derive c forσ. After A outputs (J,σ ), GFA ﬁrst checks to see if the output
is a successful forgery, as indicated by when J≥ 1. If so, it continues to the second
execution ofA.
For the second execution of A, GFA will feed in the same random tape β, but
will supply a different set of simulated responses for the random oracleH. In order to
“fork”A,GFA will supply the same responsesh1,...,h J−1, but will providedifferent
25

Algorithm 2 AlgorithmC(ω)
Input A challenge valueω
Output The discrete logarithm ofω, or⊥
1: Simulate KeyGen to embed challenge valueω and extract the forger’s secret values
(Y, (a10,...,a (t−1)0))←SimKeyGen (ω)
2: (1,hJ,h′
J,σ,σ′) or⊥← GFA(Y )
3: If not⊥, then ExtractDLog(ω,hJ,h′
J,σ,σ′, (a10,...,a (t−1)0))
responses for hJ,...,h nr. In doing so, GFA simulates forking the adversary at a
speciﬁc point when performing its attack similar to the proof model by Pointcheval
and Stern [25], but without needing to rewindA to a speciﬁc point.
After its second execution,A will return (J′,σ′) or⊥. If J′ ?
= J but the output
from the random oracle queries is different such that hJ⁄= h′
J, thenGFA will output
1 to indicate success along with the two forgeries σ,σ′ and the two random oracle
queries corresponding to these forgeries (hJ,h′
J). These values can then be used by
the coordination algorithmC to determine the discrete logarithm of the challenge value
ω (we provide more details on how to perform this operation below).
Generalized Forking Lemma. We will now see how the generalized forking
lemma presented by Bellare and Neven [3] determines the probability that GFA will
return a successful output. Letacc be the accepting probability ofA, or the probability
thatJ≥ 1, and let h be the total number of possible outputs of H. Let e′ be the ad-
vantage of solving the discrete logarithm problem over some group G. Recall that nr
is the maximum number of random oracle outputsA may need to generate.
Lemma A.1. Generalized Forking Lemma [3] Let frk be deﬁned by the following
probability:
frk =Pr [b = 1 :x
$
←IG : (b,σ,σ′)
$
←GFA(x)]
whereIG is an input generator for a challenge inputx. Then
e′≥ frk≥ acc· (acc
nr
− 1
h)
Lemma A.1 demonstrates the probability e′ that running the generalized forking
algorithmGFA will produce two valid forgeries σ = (R,z ) andσ′ = (R′,z′) along
with their respective challenge responses from the random oracle (hJ,h′
J) over the
same messagem and public commitmentR, and so enable the extraction of the desired
discrete logarithm.
A.1.2 Embedding the challenge value during KeyGen
We use a coordination algorithmC described in Algorithm 2 to perform setup forGFA
and to derive the discrete logarithm of the challenge valueω afterward.
Simulating KeyGen. We now describe howC embeds the challenge valueω into
the group public key Y during a simulation of the KeyGen phase; Y is in turn fed as
26

input intoGFA. For simplicity of notation, we letn =t (wheren is the total number of
participants andt is the threshold), andF controlst− 1 participants, andA simulates
thetth (honest) participant toF. The case for generaln is similar.
For the ﬁrst round of the key generation protocol, A simulatesPt as follows. Let
⃗Ci be the set of public commitments φi1,...,φ i(t−1) for participant Pi. To calculate
⃗Ct and to distribute shares ft(1),...,f t(t− 1) to the t− 1 participants corrupted by
F,A does the following:
1. Randomly generate ¯xt1,..., ¯xt(t−1) to serve as the secret shares corresponding
toft(1),...,f t(t− 1)
2. Set φt0 to be the challenge valueω
3. Calculate φt1,...,φ t(t−1) by performing Lagrange interpolation in the expo-
nent, orφtk =ωλk0·g
∑t−1
i=1λki·¯xti
A then broadcasts ⃗Ct for Pt. For the second round, A sends (1, ¯xt1),..., (t−
1, ¯xt(t−1)) to the participants P1,...,P t−1 corrupted byF. Further,A simulates the
proof of knowledge forat0 by derivingσ as:
ct,z
$
← Zq;R =gz·ω−ct; andσ = (R,z )
A derives the public key for Pt by following the same steps they would use to
calculate the public key for their peers (as the discrete log of the challenge value ω is
unknown), by performing:
Yt =
n∏
j=1
t−1∏
k=0
φtk modq
jk
The participants controlled byF can derive their private key shares si by directly
following the KeyGen protocol, then deriving Yi = gsi. We will see in the proof for
FROST-Interactive howA can still simulate signing for the honest party Pt toF even
without knowing its corresponding private key share. Each party (honest or corrupted
byF) can follow the KeyGen protocol to derive the group’s long-lived public key, by
calculatingY = ∏n
j=1φj0.
In addition,C must obtainF’s secret values(a10,...,a (t−1)0) using the extractor
for the zero-knowledge proofs thatF generates. C will use these values next in order
to convert the discrete logarithm for the group public keyY into the discrete logarithm
for the challenge valueω.
A.1.3 Solving Discrete Logarithm of the Challenge
We now describe how two forged signatures (σ,σ′) along with the challenge values
from the random oracle query (hJ,h′
J) produced as output fromGFA can be used by
C to extract the discrete logarithm of the challenge value ω. We give an overview of
the algorithm ExtractDLog in Algorithm 3, which C uses as a subroutine. Note that
the advantagee′ used later in our proofs denotes the advantage ofC(ω) of solving the
discrete logarithm for the challenge valueω.
27

Algorithm 3 Algorithm ExtractDLog(ω,hJ,h′
J, (σ,σ′), (a10,...,a (t−1)0))
Input A challenge value ω, two random oracle responses hJ,h′
J and their corre-
sponding two forgeries (σ,σ′), and secret values (a10,...,a (t−1)0)
Output The discrete logarithm ofω
1: Parse σ,σ′ as (R,z ), (R,z′), and then compute the discrete logarithm of Y as
(z′−z)
(h′
J−hJ).
2: Computeat0 =dlog(Y )− ∑t−1
i=1ai0
3: Returnat0, which is the discrete logarithm ofω
We can computedlog(Y ), because
R =gz·Y−hJ =gz′
·Y−h′
J
and sincehJ⁄=h′
J, then
dlog(Y ) = (z′−z)
(h′
J−hJ)
The discrete logarithm corresponding toω can then be extracted as follows:
at0 =dlog(Y )−
t−1∑
i=1
ai0 =dlog(ω) (2)
As discussed in the overview of how A simulated the key generation with ω em-
bedded as the challenge value in Section A.1.2, all ofF’sai0,i⁄=t values are known
as these were extracted byA while performing the key generation protocol. Hence, C
can extractat0 using Equation 2, resulting in learning the discrete log of the challenge
valueω.
A.2 Proof of Security for FROST-Interactive
Due to the difﬁculty of simulating zero-knowledge proofs in parallel, for the purposes
of proving the security of FROST, we will ﬁrst prove security against an interactive
two-round variant of the FROST signing operation, which we call FROST-Interactive.
In Section 6.2, we discuss how the security for FROST-Interactive extends to plain
FROST.
A.2.1 FROST-Interactive
FROST-Interactive uses the same KeyGen protocol to generate long-lived keys as reg-
ular FROST, as further described in in Section 5.1. We present an overview of the
Preprocess step for FROST-Interactive in Figure 4, and the signing step in Figure 5.
The distinction between the signing operations for plain FROST and FROST-Inter-
active is how the binding value ρi is generated. Because of the difﬁculty of simulat-
ing non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs of knowledge (NIZKPKs) in a concurrent
28

setting, we instantiate FROST-Interactive using a one-time VRF, from which each par-
ticipant generates their value ρi given the inputs (m,B ). We prove this variant to be
secure against the standard notion of EUF-CMA security.
Preprocess. The Preprocess phase for FROST-Interactive differs from FROST in
two ways. First, participants additionally generate one-time VRF keys (aij,bij) and
their commitments (Aij = gaij,Bij = gbij) along with the usual FROST nonce val-
ues (dij,eij) and their commitments (Dij = gdij,Eij = geij) along with a zero-
knowledge proof of knowledge for the (aij,bij) one-time VRF keys. These keys are
later used to generateρi during the signing phase.
We require Preprocess for FROST-Interactive to be performed serially so that the
simulator can efﬁciently extract the discrete logarithm of the adversary’s non-interactive
zero knowledge proof of knowledge of its VRF keys via rewinding. In the setting of
plain FROST, the Preprocess step can be performed non-interactively, and thus the
requirement of performing this step serially is no longer relevant.
Sign. To perform signing, SA ﬁrst sends (m,B ) to each participant, and each
participant responds with ρi = aij +bij·Hρ(m,B ), whereB is derived similarly to
in plain FROST via the ordered list of tuples (i,Dij,Eij),i∈S. In the second round,
SA then sends each ρi to each of the signing participants, who use these values to
deriveR and then to calculate their own responsezi.
A.2.2 Proof of Security for FROST-Interactive
We now present a proof of EUF-CMA security for FROST-Interactive, demonstrating
that an adversary that can compute forgeries acting against FROST-Interactive can be
used to compute the discrete logarithm of an arbitrary challenge value.
Letnh be the number of queries made to the random oracle, np be the number of
allowed preprocess queries, andns be the number of allowed signing queries.
Theorem A.2. If the discrete logarithm problem inG is (τ′,ϵ′)-hard, then the FROST-
Interactive signature scheme over G withn signing participants, a threshold oft, and
a preprocess batch size ofπ is (τ,nh,np,ns,ϵ )-secure whenever
ϵ′≤ ϵ2
2nh + (π + 1)np + 1
and
τ′ = 4τ + (30πnp + (4t− 2)ns + (n +t− 1)t + 6)·texp +O(πnp +ns +nh + 1)
such that texp is the time of an exponentiation in G, assuming the number of partici-
pants compromised by the adversary is less than the thresholdt.
Proof. We prove the theorem by contradiction. Assume that F can (τ,nh,np,ns,ϵ )-
break the unforgeability property of FROST-Interactive. We will demonstrate that an
algorithmC that can (τ′,ϵ′)-solve the discrete logarithm of an arbitrary challenge value
ω∈ G. We ﬁrst describe the simulatorA, which usesF as a black-box forger.
We now describe howA simulates FROST-Interactive toF in Algorithm 4. Recall
thatF controlst− 1 participants, andA simulates a single honest participantPt.
29

Preprocess(π)→ (i,⟨(Dij,Eij,Aij,Bij)⟩π
j=1)
Each participantPi,i∈{ 1,...,n } performs this stage prior to signing. As
before,j is a counter for a nonce/commitment pair, andπ the number of
commitments generated. LetH3 be a hash function whose input is a sequence of
commitment values, andH4 be one with inputs (i, Φ).
Round 1
1. Create empty listLi. Then, for 1≤j≤π, perform the following:
1.a Generate noncesdij,eij,aij,bij
$
← Z∗
q, and derive
(Dij,Eij,Aij,Bij) = (gdij,geij,gaij,gbij).
1.b Generate nonceskaij,kbij
$
← Zq, and commitments
(Raij,Rbij) = (gkaij,gkbij).
1.c LetKij = (Dij,Eij,Aij,Bij,Raij,Rbij).
1.d Append (j, (Dij,Eij,Aij,Bij)) toLi, store ((dij,Dij), (eij,Eij),
(aij,Aij), (bij,Bij)) for later use in signing operations.
2. LetKi =H3(Ki1,...,K iπ); send (i,Ki) to all other participants.
Round 2
1. After receiving (𝓁,K𝓁) from all other participants, generate a zero-knowledge
proof of knowledgeσi for⟨aij,bij⟩π
j=1 by performing:
1.a Compute Φ =H3(K1,...,K n) andci =H4(i, Φ).
1.b Deriveµaij =kaij +aij·ci andµbij =kbij +bij·ci,
∀j∈{ 1,...,π }.
1.c SetJi =⟨µaij,µbij⟩π
j=1.
2. Send (i,Li,Ji) to all other participants.
3. After receiving (𝓁,L𝓁,J𝓁) from each participant, verify the proofs inJ𝓁 using
L𝓁. First, computec𝓁 =H4(𝓁, Φ). Then, for eachj∈{ 1,...,π }:
3.a Check thatD𝓁j,E𝓁j,A𝓁j,B𝓁j∈ G∗.
3.b DeriveR′
a𝓁j =gµa𝓁j· (A𝓁j)−c𝓁 andR′
b𝓁j =gµb𝓁j· (B𝓁j)−c𝓁.
3.c LetK′
𝓁j = (D𝓁j,E𝓁j,A𝓁j,B𝓁j,R′
a𝓁j,R′
b𝓁j).
4 LetK′
𝓁 =H3(K′
𝓁1,...,K ′
𝓁π). CheckK′
𝓁
?
=K𝓁, aborting on failure.
5. Abort if any check failed. Otherwise, store (𝓁,L𝓁) for use in signing
operations.
Figure 4: FROST-Interactive Two-Round Preprocessing Protocol
30

Sign(m)→ (m,σ )
Round 1
1. SA selects a setS oft participants for the signing protocol, and the next
available commitments for each signing participant (Dij,Eij,Aij,Bij),
and createsB =⟨(i,Dij,Eij)⟩i∈S.SA then sends (m,B ) to each
participantPi,i∈S.
2. After receiving (m,B ), eachPi,i∈S ﬁrst checks thatm is a valid message,
and validates every tuple (i,Dij,Eij)∈B maps to the next available
(Dij,Eij,Aij,Bij), aborting if either check fails.
3. EachPi generatesρi =aij +bij·Hρ(m,B ), securely deletes (aij,Aij) and
(bij,Bij) from their local storage, and returnsρi toSA.
Round 2
1. After receiving eachρ𝓁,SA then distributes allρ𝓁,𝓁∈S to each signing
participant.
2. After receiving the list ofρ𝓁 values, each participant checks the validity of
each by verifying (gρ𝓁 ?
=A𝓁j·B𝓁j
Hρ(m,B)).
3. EachPi then derivesR = ∏
𝓁∈SD𝓁j·E𝓁j
ρ𝓁, and thenc =H2(R,Y,m ).
4. EachPi computes their response using their long-lived secret sharesi by
computingzi =dij + (eij·ρi) +λi·si·c, usingS to determineλi.
5. EachPi securely deletes (dij,Dij) and (eij,Eij) from their local storage, and
then returnszi toSA.
6. SA performs the identical veriﬁcation, aggregation, and publication of
signature shares as in plain FROST.
Figure 5: FROST-Interactive Two-Round Signing Protocol
31

Algorithm 4 AlgorithmA(Y,{h1,...,h nr};β)
Input A public keyY and random oracle outputs{h1,...,h nr}
Output An indexJ and forgeryσ, or⊥
1: Initializectr = 1,Tρ ={},T 2 ={},T 3 ={},T 4 ={},J 2 ={},C ={},M ={}
2: RunF on inputY , answering its queries as follows, until it outputs (m,σ = (R,z )) or⊥.
3: On simulatingHρ(m,B ):
4: IfTρ[m,B ] =⊥, setTρ[m,B ] =hctr;ctr =ctr + 1. ReturnTρ[m,B ].
5: On simulatingH2(R,Y,m ):
6: IfT2[m,R ] = ⊥, set T2[R,Y,m ] = hctr, J2[R,Y,m ] = ctr;ctr = ctr + 1. Return
T2[R,Y,m ].
7: On simulatingH3(⃗X):
8: IfT3[⃗X] =⊥, setT3[⃗X] =hctr;ctr =ctr + 1. ReturnT3[⃗X].
9: On simulatingH4(i, Φ):
10: IfT4[i, Φ] =⊥, setT4[i, Φ] =hctr;ctr =ctr + 1. ReturnT4[i, Φ].
11: On simulating Preprocess:
12: Round 1:
13: For 1≤j≤π, do:
14: Set ¯cj =hctr,C[j] =ctr,ctr =ctr + 1, ¯ztj
$
← Zq,Dtj =g¯ztj·Yt
−¯cj .
15: Follow the protocol honestly to sample (etj,atj,btj) and derive (Etj,Atj,Btj).
16: Follow the protocol honestly to sample (katj,kbtj) and derive (Ratj,Rbtj).
17: DeriveKt honestly, publish toF, and wait for allK𝓁 values fromF.
18: Round 2:
19: DeriveLt, Φ,Jt honestly. Send (t,Lt,Jt) toF, and wait to receive the(𝓁,L𝓁,J𝓁) tuples
fromF, following the protocol for validation.
20: ReprogramT3[K1,...,K n] =hctr; setctr =ctr + 1. Rederivect andJt honestly.
21: RewindF to step 1 in Round 2 of Figure 4, immediately before F queries H3 with
(K1,...,K n).
22: After allowingF to proceed after rewinding, use its two sets of outputs to derive the
discrete logarithm of eachA𝓁j andB𝓁j; store for use in the signing protocol.
23: Complete the protocol honestly.
24: On simulating Sign:
25: Round 1: Input (m,B )
26: Insertm intoM.
27: Using (a𝓁j,b𝓁j) obtained during Preprocess, deriveρ𝓁 :𝓁∈S,𝓁⁄=t
28: Deriveρt =atj +btj·Hρ(m,B ) andR, following the protocol honestly for validation.
29: ProgramT2[m,R ] = ¯cj,J2[m,R ] =C[j]; returnρt.
30: Round 2: Input (ρj,...,ρ t)
31: Letzt = ¯ztj + (etj·ρt); returnzt toF
32: IfF outputs⊥, then return⊥. ElseF outputs (m,σ = (R,z )).
33: IfT2[m,Y,R ] =⊥, setT2[m,Y,R ] =hctr,J2[m,Y,R ] =ctr, andctr =ctr + 1.
34: Letc =T2[m,Y,R ]. IfR⁄=gzY −c orm∈M, then return⊥
35: LetJ =J2[m,Y,R ]. ReturnJ,σ = (R,z )
Let nr = 2nh + (π + 1)np + 1 denote the maximum number of random oracle
outputsA may require.
After performing the key generation phase as described in Section A.1.2,A invokes
32

F to perform its forgery attack. A simulates both the responses to the random oracle
queries ofF as well as the role ofPt in the Preprocess and Sign algorithms.
Simulating Random Oracle Queries. For each random oracle query to Hρ,H2,
H3, andH4,A responds by ﬁrst checking a corresponding associative table (initialized
to empty on start) to see if the output has already been determined for that query. If
no such output exists,A sets the output to the next available value from{h1,...,h nr}
supplied byGFA upon start, indicated by ctr. After setting the output, A increments
ctr and returns the freshly assigned output. In lieu of the H1(i,m,B ) hash function
used in FROST (presented in Section 5.2), FROST-Interactive uses an interactive one-
time VRF with inputHρ(m,B ) to provide this binding mechanism.
Simulating Preprocess. To perform the Preprocess stage,A simulates the honest
participantPt, following the protocol honestly with exception of the following steps.
When generatingDtj,A ﬁrst picks ¯cj as the next availablehctr value, and keeps track
of which one it used by setting C[j] = ctr in a list C.A randomly selects ¯ztj
$
← Zq,
and then derivesDtj =g¯ztj·Yt
−¯cj .
A honestly computes and publishes its proof of knowledge of the (atj,btj) values
in Round 2. However, during this round,A itself forksF in order to extract the discrete
logarithms (a𝓁j,b𝓁j) of the commitment values (A𝓁j,B𝓁j) for all of the players P𝓁
controlled byF.A is able to learn these values by rewindingF to the point before it
makes the query Φ =H3(K1,...,K t), and programming the random oracle to return
a different random output Φ′. Then, when F republishesJi : i⁄= t for all dishonest
parties thatF controls,A can solve for the discrete log for each commitment.
Simulating Signing.F initiates the FROST-Interactive signing protocol in the role
ofSA, sending (m,B ) in Round 1. Upon receiving these values, A is able to com-
pute not only itsρt, but also all of the otherρ𝓁 values for all of the other participants,
because of its knowledge of the (a𝓁j,b𝓁j) thatA obtained during Round 2 of the pre-
processing stage. Using these ρ𝓁 values, it can compute the R that will be used in
Round 2, and program H2(R,Y,m ) = ¯cj. It also saves C[j], the ctr value such that
¯ck =hctr, asJ2[R,Y,m ] in a tableJ2.
Note thatA is never required to guess which output from the random oracle to
program to correctly issue a signature, becauseA can always computeR beforeF can,
and consequently can program the random oracle H2(R,Y,m ) with perfect success.
Conversely, a signing request byA in the simulation for plain Schnorr succeeds only
with probability 1/(nh +ns + 1) [3].
Finding the Discrete Logarithm of the Challenge Input. As described in Sec-
tion A.1.3, using the two forgeries (σ,σ′), the discrete logarithm ofω can be derived.
Recall that the probability ofF succeeding for one run ofA is simplyϵ, asA can
return the correct challenge for each signing query. Then, using the forking lemma, the
probability that the discrete logarithm of ω can be extracted afterA is run twice is at
least ϵ2
nr
(ignoring the negligible ϵ
h term, ash—the number of possible hash outputs—
is typically at least 2256), and the total time required to extract the discrete logarithm
of the challenge value is:
τ′ = 4τ + (30πnp + (4t− 2)ns + (n +t− 1)t + 6)·texp +O(πnp +ns +nh + 1)
The running time for C to compute the discrete logarithm by procuring two forg-
33

eries from FROST-Interactive is four times that for F (because of the forking of A,
which itself forksF), plus the time to compute(30πnp +(4t−2)ns +(n+t−1)t+6)
exponentiations:
• In simulating KeyGen, (t− 1)·t to compute ⃗Ct, 2 to compute R, and n·t to
computeYt
• In each of two executions ofA:
– 7 in each ofπ iterations of Round 1 of simulating Preprocess,
– 8π to validate each of two versions oft−1J𝓁 lists in Round 2 of simulating
Preprocess,
– t− 1 to validate theρ𝓁 andt to computeR in each simulation of Sign,
– 2 to computeR to verify the output ofF
andO(πnp +ns +nh + 1) other minor operations, such as table lookups.
A.3 Extension of FROST-Interactive to FROST
In this section, we describe the changes we make to FROST-Interactive to remove one
round of communication in each of the Preprocess and the Sign phases. We argue in
Section 6 why our changes do not harm the security of the protocol.
Removal of one-time veriﬁable random functions to generate ρi. The primary
difference between FROST-Interactive and FROST is that in the former, interactive
one-time VRFs are used to generate the ρi binding values. In FROST, on the other
hand, these values are generated with random oracles (modelling hash functions). Re-
moving the one-time VRFs removes the VRF keys (aij,bij) and their commitments
(Aij,Bij) from the protocol.
Removal of one round of the Sign phase. With the one-time VRFs removed, all
participants can compute every other participants’ ρi values non-interactively, and so
the ﬁrst round of the Sign protocol for FROST-Interactive (where participants exchange
theirρi values) is no longer necessary for FROST.
Removal of the proofs of knowledge of the one-time VRF keys and one round
of the Preprocess phase. As the one-time VRF keys are removed, so are their proofs
of knowledgeJi in the Preprocess phase. Removing theJi then makes theKi unused,
and removing theKi removes the ﬁrst round of the Preprocess phase.
B Changelog
2020-01-06 Initial extended abstract posted and presented at RWC 2020.
2020-01-20 Initial complete technical report, added analysis for Drijvers’ attack and
mechanisms for participants to commit to their commitment values in a pre-
processing stage.
2020-07-08 We added the following improvements:
1. The requirement that each participant provide a zero-knowledge proof of
knowledge of their secret ai0 during the key generation stage in order to
prevent against rogue key attacks in the case thatt≥n/2.
34

2. Change to present only a single variant of FROST that is safe in an concur-
rent setting against known attacks such as the Drijvers attack.
3. New proofs for FROST in a two-round signing setting, and a discussion
how this proof of security extends to FROST in a single-round signing
setting.
2020-07-18 We added the clariﬁcation that the Preprocess step for FROST-Interactive
must be performed sequentially, but the Preprocess step in plain FROST is par-
allelizable.
2020-12-22 We added feedback received during the SAC 2020 review process, such
as increased review of prior work, and changed the signature format for compat-
ibility with EdDSA-style signatures. We also added a correction to Equation 1
and clariﬁcations to our proof summary.
35