Understanding the growth of the Fediverse
through the lens of Mastodon ∗
Lucio La Cava Sergio Greco Andrea Tagarelli
Dept. Computer Engineering, Modeling, Electronics, and Systems Engineering
(DIMES), University of Calabria, 87036 Rende (CS), Italy
{lucio.lacava, greco, tagarelli}@dimes.unical.it
Abstract
Open-source, Decentralized Online Social Networks (DOSNs) are emerg-
ing as alternatives to the popular yet centralized and proﬁt-driven plat-
forms like Facebook or Twitter. In DOSNs, users can set up their own
server, or instance, while they can actually interact with users of other
instances. Moreover, by adopting the same communication protocol,
DOSNs become part of a massive social network, namely the Fediverse.
Mastodon is the most relevant platform in the Fediverse to date, and also
the one that has attracted attention from the research community. Ex-
isting studies are however limited to an analysis of a relatively outdated
sample of Mastodon focusing on few aspects at a user level, while sev-
eral open questions have not been answered yet, especially at the instance
level.
In this work, we aim at pushing forward our understanding of the
Fediverse by leveraging the primary role of Mastodon therein. Our ﬁrst
contribution is the building of an up-to-date and highly representative
dataset of Mastodon. Upon this new data, we have deﬁned a network
model over Mastodon instances and exploited it to investigate three ma-
jor aspects: the structural features of the Mastodon network of instances
from a macroscopic as well as a mesoscopic perspective, to unveil the dis-
tinguishing traits of the underlying federative mechanism; the backbone
of the network, to discover the essential interrelations between the in-
stances; and the growth of Mastodon, to understand how the shape of the
instance network has evolved during the last few years, also when broad-
ing the scope to account for instances belonging to other platforms. Our
extensive analysis of the above aspects has provided a number of ﬁndings
that reveal distinguishing features of Mastodon and that can be used as
a starting point for the discovery of all the DOSN Fediverse.
Keywords— decentralized online social networks; Mastodon instances; structural
network analysis; community detection; core decomposition; graph pruning; prestige
ranking
∗Accepted for publication with Applied Network Science , Springer Open, June 12, 2021.
1
arXiv:2106.15473v1  [cs.SI]  29 Jun 2021

1 Introduction
In the last decade, we witnessed an unprecedented proliferation of Online Social Net-
works (OSNs). Roughly and generally speaking, OSNs aim to shrink timing and
distances that characterize inter-personal relationships through the Internet. How-
ever, the extreme popularity gained by Facebook and the other worldwide available
yet centralized OSN platforms (i.e., hosted and controlled by a single company) has
soon led their owners to pursue a collateral social-marketing goal, which is mostly
implemented through content personalization mechanisms and advertisement strate-
gies. As it is well-known, side-eﬀects such as the formation of information bubbles and
concerns about the protection of data and user privacy normally characterize most
existing centralized OSNs.
The above aspects contributed to raise the opportunity for developing new paradigms
of OSNs to become “user-centric” rather than “company-centric” platforms. As a ma-
jor consequence, privacy control, as well as spontaneous and recommendation-free
communications among the users, are favored and unbiased as much as possible from
the invasiveness of advertisements.
In this context, Decentralized Online Social Networks (DOSNs) are emerging as
alternatives to the popular centralized platforms. DOSNs are built upon two key
aspects: the availability of open-source software to allow everyone to set up their server
hence avoiding centralization, and the existence of speciﬁc communication protocols
to enable ﬂuid interconnections between servers that embrace the same protocol.
These core components lead to a federation model, in which the servers, also called
as instances, can communicate to each other through the same protocol. This implies
that users which are signed up for a particular server can actually interact with users
of other servers, analogously to what normally happens with email services. DOSNs
hence become part of a massive social network, namely theFediverse. As a consequence
of this mechanism, users can use their accounts on a DOSN platform to follow users
on other platforms, without needing an account there.
The Fediverse currently provides several services, such as Mastodon and Friendica
for microblogging, PeerTube and Funkwhale for video hosting, PixelFed for image host-
ing. Among these platforms, Mastodon is the one that has encountered the greatest
attention increase over the years. Mastodon provides a user experience comparable
to Twitter (e.g., published contents are called toots, whereas the analogous of the
retweet functionality is called boost) and Reddit (e.g., niche communities and con-
tent moderation are emphasized, however Mastodon communities are independent of
each other). Moreover, Mastodon aﬀords content warnings, i.e., synopses of toots
that can preview disturbing content. Mastodon is built upon the ActivityPub proto-
col,1 which implements a layer for client-to-server communications and another one
for the server-to-server communications. Thanks to this protocol and a subscription-
based mechanism (implicitly carried out by the instances), users can interact with each
other even if they belong to diﬀerent instances.
The extended followship mechanism in Mastodon also leads to an original yet
remarkable timeline structure, namely home-timeline, which provides toots generated
by followed users, local-timeline, which yields toots created within the instance, and
federated-timeline, which contains all public toots from all users (either from the same
instance or not) that are known to the instance where a user is registered.
Furthermore, Mastodon instances allow their users to apply rules and policies on
the generated contents. Administrators can declare both the main topics of their
instance and prohibited contents. Users can mark some contents as inappropriate
for a given instance by placing a content warning on the content itself. Along with
the content warning, a spoiler (i.e., a textual component summarizing the obfuscated
1https://www.w3.org/TR/activitypub/
2

content) will be displayed to the user, letting her/him decide whether to view it or
not.
Finally, Mastodon also allows administrators to close registrations for their in-
stances, e.g., in the case of a “private instance” among friends, or to eﬃciently mod-
erate contents. Nevertheless, this feature does not aﬀect user interactions which, as
outlined above, are guaranteed by speciﬁc protocols.
Related W ork. DOSN analysis is a relatively novel research ﬁeld. Early works mainly
investigated motivations, opportunities and challenges related to diﬀerent solutions
for the decentralized paradigm, from distributed systems like peer-to-peer networks
to hybrid systems integrating external and private resources for storing user data [2].
Two surveys on these topics as well as on issues related to DOSN infrastructures, data
management, privacy and information diﬀusion, can be found in [2, 3].
Focusing on more recently developed and open-source DOSNs, to the best of our
knowledge, Mastodon is the only platform in the Fediverse that has received noticeable
attention from the research community [4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]. Zulli et al. [9] have recently
performed a qualitative analysis based on an interview to a sample of instance moder-
ators. From that study it emerges that the federative structure of Mastodon enables
content variety and community autonomy, and also emphasizes horizontal growth be-
tween instances rather than growth within instances; however, any analysis of the
interactions on the Mastodon instances is missing.
From a network science perspective, the studies by Zignani et al. [6, 8] are particu-
larly relevant, as they were the ﬁrst to analyze a portion of the Mastodon user-network,
focusing on degree distribution, triadic closure, and assortativity aspects, and com-
paring such characteristics to those in Twitter [6]. From the analysis of the in-degree
and out-degree distributions, Mastodon is found to show a more balanced behavior
between followers and followees than what observed in Twitter. Also, the 95% of users
exhibit a diﬀerence between followers and followees bounded in the range (-250, 250).
Concerning social bots, the authors reported a low presence (around 5%), which is
signiﬁcantly lower than the 15% observed on Twitter by Varol et al. [10]. Clustering
coeﬃcient in Mastodon ranges between those of Facebook and Twitter. The degree as-
sortativity in Mastodon was also inspected, considering source in-degree (SID), source
out-degree (SOD), destination in-degree (DID), and destination out-degree (DOD).
The authors observed lack of correlation between (SOD, DOD), (SOD, DID) and
(SID, DOD), which indicates that users who follow many users are connected to users
whose popularity may vary (DID) and who in turn follow few or many users (DOD).
Moreover, the observed negative correlation (-0.1) between SID and DID implies that
the higher the popularity of a user is, the less popular the users s/he follows will
be. Overall, disagreement is observed between the degree assortativity in Mastodon
and the ones shown by well-known social networks. Finally, Zignani et al. found that
users’ hubiness is bounded within its instance and inﬂuenced by the latter. Also, in [8],
the authors investigate how the decentralization process aﬀects relationships between
users, unveiling that instances show individual footprints (based on degree distribution
and clustering coeﬃcient statistics observed on the top 10 instances in Mastodon) that
inﬂuence relationships.
It should be noted that none of the above works have focused on the interactions
between instances in Mastodon, and a number of related aspects are missing, such
as distinction between online and oﬄine instances, mesoscopic structure analysis, or
backboning. Indeed, several open questions still remain to address on Mastodon, which
inspired our study in this work.
Contributions. Our research stems from a twofold motivation: to provide a fresh
view on Mastodon based on recently updated data, and to ﬁll a lack of knowledge on
topological features of the Mastodon network focusing at the instance level.2
2An abridged version of this work appeared in the Proc. of the 9th Int. Conf. on Complex
3

As previously discussed, early studies have primarily focused on the analysis of
Mastodon users, and they captured a relatively small snapshot of Mastodon dated four
years ago. Clearly, this might have overlooked salient traits that can be discovered at
the instance level, as well as it raises the need for getting a timely picture of Mastodon
which has presumably changed over time. To overcome these limitations, our study
builds upon an up-to-date and representative network data over the instances, and
utilizes it to provide insights into their relations. The goal is manifold: it includes
the opportunity of enhancing our understanding of the macroscopic and mesoscopic
structures of Mastodon to unveil the distinguishing traits of the underlying federative
mechanism, and to discover the essential interrelations between the instances; but also
we want to understand how the instance network has changed, within Mastodon as
well as at the boundary of Mastodon itself.
We elaborate on the above aspects by developing an extensive analysis framework
to answer the following research questions:
Q1 – Network data and models : How are the Mastodon instances detected and
modeled as a network?
Q2 – Structural features: What are the salient structural features of the network of
Mastodon instances, at macroscopic as well as mesoscopic level?
Q3 – Fingerprint: Are there any clues to the presence of notable phenomena that
distinguishes Mastodon from centralized OSNs? How does a federative mecha-
nism arise from the Mastodon instances?
Q4 – Network backbone : What is the backbone of the network of Mastodon in-
stances, and does it preserve the structural features of the whole network?
Q5 – Growth: How has the shape of the network of Mastodon instances evolved
during the last few years?
Plan of the paper. The remainder of the paper is organized so as to address
the above stated research questions. Section 2 describes our crawling methodology,
the data collected and the network models we built upon this data ( Q1). Section 3
contains the structural analysis of the Mastodon instance network, from the macro-
scopic and mesoscopic perspectives ( Q2-Q3). Section 4 describes our methodology of
identiﬁcation of the backbone of the Mastodon instance network ( Q4). Section 5 ana-
lyzes the evolution of the Mastodon instance network ( Q5) from three points of view:
comparison with the earlier Mastodon network, emphasis on the online portion of the
network, and an analysis of centrality of the instances. Finally, Section 6 concludes
the paper and provides pointers for future research.
2 Polite data crawling and network modeling
To answer our ﬁrst research question (Q1), here we describe the crawling methodology
adopted to collect public information from Mastodon, the steps carried out to build
and validate our Mastodon instance dataset, and the network models we derived from
the collected data.
2.1 Crawling methodology
The publicly available dataset on Mastodon relationships provided in [6] contains data
extracted during the period between 2017 and 2018. This clearly raises concerns about
the possibly partial obsolescence of those data, since social networks continuously
evolve and there is no reason to assume that Mastodon and the Fediverse would
Networks and their Applications, 2020 [1].
4

represent an exception to this rule. Therefore, to satisfy the need for up-to-date data,
we carried out an extensive crawling phase based on a newly designed crawler.
Crawling requirements and design principles. Our crawler was developed
under strict and self-imposed constraints, i.e., following the privacy by design, privacy
by default approach, and exclusively relying on the publicly-available Mastodon REST
APIs 3 — using such APIs, we accessed data through GET and POST methods of the
HTTP protocol, and managed the payload of requested data in a JSON format. Under
these constraints, we were able to make our crawling methodology fully compliant with
ethical and privacy-related principles.
Given the decentralized nature of Mastodon, it is not straightforward to detect the
myriad of instances available today. Nonetheless, to get updated information on the
current landscape of Mastodon instances, the instances.social website 4 is commonly
used as a de-facto tracker of Mastodon instances. We exploited it to generate a list
of seeds (i.e., starting points for the searching process), which correspond to currently
online Mastodon instances.
Mastodon instances provide developers with authentication tokens to ensure con-
trol over the scope of the interactions. Moreover, by leveraging on authenticated re-
quests, developers might achieve better interaction capabilities with instances. These
conditions certainly comply with our desired privacy and ethical principles. There-
fore, we submitted our seed list (i.e., the instances obtained from instances.social) to
the authentication process, getting approved from approximately 900 instances out
of about 1 100. Also, being able to traverse instances timeline — via authenticated
requests — we discovered about 81 000 new users to explore. Then, we carried out
a breadth-ﬁrst-search over them, detecting incoming and outgoing links and progres-
sively increasing the number of users to explore, by discovering new ones during the
link detection process.
We point out that Mastodon allows redirecting or moving a user’s proﬁle. Although
notable, this feature could determine some inconsistencies during the crawling, such
as redirects to other instances while exploring the user proﬁles. Therefore, we avoided
generating edges for users who presented similar behaviors.
Moreover, two side yet relevant remarks arise regarding our crawler implemen-
tation. First, to eﬃciently handle the collected data, we used a caching mechanism
(Redis) coupled with a NoSQL database ( MongoDB). Also, to prevent computational
bottlenecks, we avoid repeated checkings over the database during the crawling phase
(e.g., for checking duplicated edges), so that we eventually reﬁne the complete network
dataset in an “oﬀ-line mode”, once the crawling process has ﬁnished, by exploiting
particularly eﬃcient processing functionalities provided by suitable data and network
manipulation software libraries.
Our crawling session ended up with 27 989 557 links detected. After performing
basic data-cleaning steps, particularly removing duplicate links, we obtained about
1.4M and 18M unique users and links, respectively, managing to cover 16 282 instances.
It should be emphasized that, to respect privacy principles, we ﬁrmly avoided using
scraping techniques or systems, i.e., we abstained crawling information from instances
which did not provide us with an authentication token. Notice also that the detected
links were immediately anonymized, and any information that could impact on the
users’ privacy was replaced with numerical data generated through a proper hashing
function — as a consequence, it is not possible to trace back the original information
on users from our raw dataset. Finally, we point out that our fetching of descriptive
text data (e.g., toots) was minimal, i.e., it occurred only during the initialization of our
crawling process: indeed, we produced the seed-user set by discovering them through
toots available in the timelines of the seed instances, relying only on authenticated
3https://docs.joinmastodon.org/api/
4https://instances.social/
5

Table 1: Current landscape of Mastodon instances as provided by in-
stances.social and fediverse.party websites. Symbol ⋃, resp. ⋂, stands for
the total of Mastodon instances calculated as the size of the set union, resp.
intersection, between the instances set provided by the websites.
instances.social fediverse.party ⋃ ⋂
Online 1 193 not available 1 193 997
Online+Oﬄine 7 313 3 396 9 433 1 276
requests. Nonetheless, we never stored this data since we processed it in real-time.
After this initial phase, the crawling continued via breadth-ﬁrst-search, thus ignoring
textual data.
Spotting Mastodon instances. As previously mentioned, platforms in the Fe-
diverse utilize a shared protocol, allowing for seamless interactions among their users.
A related key-aspect is that, when requesting followings or followers of a Mastodon
user, the APIs return all of them, regardless of the Fediverse platform. In this re-
gard, one question becomes how we can distinguish between instances that belong to
Mastodon from other platforms’ instances in the Fediverse. We answered this question
through a veriﬁcation process, as summarized next.
To date, some relevant websites provide up-to-date Mastodon information, namely
the aforementioned instances.social and fediverse.party,5 so that we exploited them to
ﬁlter our data through their lists of known instances. Note however that, while fedi-
verse.party does not distinguish online from oﬄine instances, instances.social provides
ﬁne-grained ﬁltering capabilities. In this regard, we focused on the setting of two main
parameters provided in the instances.social APIs: include dead and include down. As
declared in instances.social, an instance is considered dead if inactive for at least two
weeks, and down if it is not currently online yet live within a two-week window. We
set either both include dead and include down to true, or false, to obtain all the known
Mastodon instances, resp. online-only instances.
As reported in Table 1, we merged information retrieved from both websites, re-
gardless of the instances’ status (i.e., online or oﬄine), obtaining 9 433 known Mastodon
instances. In addition, we requested online-only ones to instances.social, getting 1 193
instances to date. Note also that, by restricting our census of the Mastodon instances
to the information shared between the two platforms, the total online and the overall
total would be decreased of 16.4% (997) and 86.5% (1 276).
V alidated datasets. Based on the above information, we analyzed our crawled
data to properly detect the status of the instances. Results are summarized in Figure 1.
We intercepted 6 960 out of 9 433 Mastodon instances (both online and oﬄine),
and 1 116 out of 1 193 currently online instances. We point out the signiﬁcance of
the latter value, given the coverage of most of the online Mastodon instances to date.
Moreover, our dataset doubles the earlier state-of-the-art in terms of currently online
instances. Clearly, the freshness of our data (November-December 2020) inﬂuences
this value.
It should be emphasized that our collected data includes a remarkable amount
(9 322) of non-Mastodon instances, i.e., belonging to other Fediverse platforms. This
clearly strengthens the concept of Fediverse, but also opens to the discovery of the
primary role taken by Mastodon within the Fediverse. In fact, although we detected
non-Mastodon users and instances through Mastodon ones, and hence this knowledge
of the Fediverse might be partial, our collected data oﬀers an unprecedented oppor-
tunity for deepening our understanding of the position of Mastodon in the Fediverse
5https://fediverse.party/en/mastodon
6

Total collected Mastodon Overall Mastodon Online Time
This work 16 282 6 960 1 116 Late 2020
Earlier [6] not available 4 015 548 Mid 2017 - Early 2018
Figure 1: Validated data based on the information reported in Table 1, and
illustrative comparison between dimensions of the earlier state-of-the-art (in
red) and dimensions of our dataset.
(i.e., how Mastodon instances and users interact with the rest of the Fediverse), given
the premises of independence yet cooperation among platforms in the Fediverse.
Further important remarks also arise regarding the growth of Mastodon. Although
we are not aware of the status (i.e., online or oﬄine) of the instances in the earlier
state-of-the-art dataset [6] at the time of their creation, we hypothesize that, after a
ﬁrst boost due to enthusiasm and novelty, Mastodon reached its stability as a DOSN.
Indeed, the number of currently online instances is moderate compared to the number
of all-time known ones and refers to non-transient yet well-rooted platforms. Over-
all, our dataset turns out to be signiﬁcantly larger and more recent than the earlier
Mastodon dataset, making it more suitable for novel and further studies.
2.2 Network models
Let us denote with U the set of users and with I the set of instances available in the
extracted Mastodon data. We can deﬁne a directed network modeling the Mastodon
data asG =⟨V,E⟩, where the node set V contains pairs (u,i ), with u∈U and i∈I ,
and the edge setE⊆V×V corresponds to the set of following relations, such that any
(x,y )∈E with x = (u,i ) and y = (v,j ) means that user u in instance i follows user v
in instancej. Note that u may concide withv provided thati⁄=j. GivenG, we derive
three Mastodon networks at instance level, which are formally deﬁned as follows.
Instance network. The ﬁrst network we deﬁne is the graph modeling relations
between all the instances in I, hereinafter referred to as Instances network, as the
directed weighted network GI =⟨V,E,w⟩, where V =I is the set of nodes, E is the
set of edges such that (i,j )∈E means that there exists at least one user in instance i
that follows another user in instance j, and w :E↦→R is an edge weighting function
such that, for any ( i,j )∈ E, w(i,j ) stores the multiplicity of the following relation
from i to j (i.e., number of users in i following users in j).
Online instance network. Our second network is induced from the set of instances
that are detected as online at the time of the crawling process we carried out. There-
fore, by denoting with V o ⊆I the set of online instances, the Online-Instances
network Go
I =⟨V o,E o,w o⟩, with edge-set Eo = E∩ (V o×V o) and edge weight-
ing function wo : Eo↦→R , is deﬁned to model the connections between the online
instances only.
7

Table 2: Networks created from our collected dataset, and comparison with the
earlier state-of-the-art network. All networks but Expanded refer to Mastodon-
only instances.
Network name #Nodes #Edges
Expanded-Instances 16 282 318 218
Instances 6 960 216 504
Online-Instances 1 115 75 046
Earlier [6] 4 015 95 221
Expanded network. Our third network generalizes the ﬁrst one by accounting for
instances that have been recognized outside Mastodon. Actually, every link extracted
during our crawling process is by deﬁnition incident with at least one instance that
belongs to Mastodon. Therefore, we also deﬁne an expanded network to explore the
boundary of the Mastodon network to the rest of the Fediverse. By denoting with
V∗⊃I such expanded set of instances, i.e., the whole set of crawled instances, we
deﬁne the Expanded-Instances network as G∗
I =⟨V∗,E∗,w∗⟩, where E∗ = E∪
{(i,j )| (i∈ V∧j∈ V∗\V )∨ (i∈ V∗\V∧j∈ V )}, and the weighting function
w∗ :E∗↦→R follows analogous deﬁnition as for the Mastodon instances network.
All the above deﬁned networks and the one inferred from the earlier dataset are
summarized in Table 2. Note that the number of nodes in the Online-Instances
network is decreased of one w.r.t. the information given in Fig. 1, since one online
instance is actually disconnected from the network. Moreover, in Figure 2, we provide
an illustration of the overall network of instances created from our collected dataset,
i.e., Expanded-Instances.
Remarkably, theEarlier network is found to be mostly contained in ourInstances
network; more precisely, about 80% of the instances in the Earlier network are also
contained in our Instances. As we shall discuss later in this work, this has important
implications in the growth of Mastodon during the last three years.
It should also be noted that our collected data allows us in principle to build
networks at the user level as well, e.g., we could deﬁne the network of the relations
between users of each particular instance; nonetheless, this goes beyond the scope of
this work, whose focus is the analysis and understanding of the relations among the
instances in Mastodon. Therefore, we leave the study of instance-speciﬁc networks of
users as future work (cf. Section 6).
3 Structural analysis of the Instances network
In this section, we answer our second research question (Q2) by presenting an extensive
analysis of the network we built over the Mastodon istances, i.e., the previously intro-
duced Instances network. To unveil the main characteristics that deﬁne Mastodon,
we will take a macroscopic as well as a mesoscopic perspective, and organize the dis-
cussion into the two next subsections.
3.1 Macroscopic structural analysis
We begin our investigation of the Instances network at a macroscopic level. We refer
to Table 3 for a summary of statistics on the main structural characteristics of the
Instances network, each of which is analyzed in the following.
Degree distribution. Figure 3 shows the boxplot, density function, and Com-
plementary Cumulative Distribution Function (CCDF) of the Instances network in-
8

Figure 2: Illustration of the Expanded-Instances network. Node colors
denote diﬀerent types of instances: white and light blue indicate online and
oﬄine Mastodon instances, respectively, whereas dark blue corresponds to non-
Mastodon instances. Node size is proportional to its degree. The displayed
layout is based on the force-directed drawing ForceAtlas2 model. ( Produced by
using the Graphistry service, available at https://www.graphistry.com/ .)
degrees, with various types of distribution ﬁttings; results obtained for the out-degrees
and the total degrees are analogous, and we report them in the Appendix (Figs. 9–10).
Looking at the boxplot and the histogram with associated density function, there
is evidence of right-skewness of the in-degree distribution, with a small bunch of “out-
liers” scaling in the regime of thousands. In detail, while the ﬁrst quartile, median,
mean, third quartile, and non-outlier maximum degree are 91.5, 202, 331, 413, and
878, respectively, there are 21 instances having in-degree above 880, up to a maximum
degree of 4 685.
We investigated about the outlier instances, focusing on the top-5 by degree,
resp. in-degree and out-degree, as shown in Figure 4. We found these correspond
to mastodon.social, pawoo.net, mastodon.xyz, octodon.social, and mstdn.io, in all the
three cases. These are clearly among the most popular instances in Mastodon and,
as expected, they allow their users to discuss a large variety of topics. Interestingly,
mastodon.social is always the top-1 instance regardless of the type of degree, whereas
pawoo.net and mastodon.xyz alternate each other at the second and third rank.
Such instances are also well-recognized in the CCDF plot, where we observe a
probability of 50% of having at least 200 in-degree, which already drops to 20% for
an in-degree around 600, and further decreases below 4% for the outliers. The CCDF
plot also displays the best ﬁtting of power-law, lognormal, exponential and Poisson
distribution to the observed data. The resulting ﬁtting curves appear to provide
indications of lognormality and, to a limited extent, of power-law ﬁtting.
9

Table 3: Summary of structural characteristics of the Instances network, in-
cluding details on community structure and core decomposition.
Instances Instances inner-most core
degree in-degree out-degree
#nodes 6 960 189 208 196
#edges 216 504 25 790 28 690 26 463
reciprocity 65.1% 88.4% 85.7% 88.2%
density 0.004 0.726 0.666 0.692
average degree∗ 41.966 152.328 157.702 150.98
average in-degree 31.107 136.455 137.933 135.015
% sources 12% 0% 0% 0%
% sinks 6.6% 0% 0.005% 0%
degree assortativity∗ -0.274 -0.117 -0.158 -0.135
degree assortativity -0.253 -0.14 -0.171 -0.151
average path length 2.330 1.270 1.330 1.310
diameter 5 2 2 2
transitivity∗ 0.128 0.832 0.798 0.807
clustering coeﬃcient∗ 0.836 0.837 0.810 0.816
clustering coeﬃcient (full averaging) ∗ 0.687 0.837 0.810 0.816
#strongly connected components 1 305 1 2 1
#weakly connected components ∗ 1 1 1 1
modularity by Louvain∗ 0.289 0.032 0.039 0.037
#communities by Louvain∗ 5 (5) 3 (3) 3 (3) 3 (3)
modularity by Louvain∗∗ 0.353 0.242 0.246 0.246
#communities by Louvain∗∗ 6 (8) 4 (5) 3 (4) 4 (6)
#communities by Infomap∗∗ 6 (54) 1 (3) 1 (4) 1 (3)
∗ Statistic calculated by discarding the edge orientation
∗∗ Statistic calculated by taking into account the edge weights
The above prompted us to assess the corresponding statistical signiﬁcance, whereby
we resorted to a Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Results are summarized in Table 4. In the
ﬁrst subtable, the highp-values suggest that the null hypothesis that the data are from
a power-law distribution cannot be rejected, although this holds on a limited regime
(xmin) starting from degree values, resp. in-degree and out-degree values, of the order
of hundreds. In particular, for the in-degree case, note that xmin is above the mean
of the distribution. The remaining subtables in Table 4 correspond to four diﬀerent
scenarios we investigated for the lognormality ﬁtting, namely (from top to bottom in
the table) full regime (i.e., whole observed data), removal of the outliers, removal of
lower-degree (≤ 50) instances, removal of both outliers and lower-degree instances.
As it can be noted, the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test yielded high signiﬁcance values
for the lognormality ﬁtting in all cases, except when the outliers only are discarded;
particularly, the signiﬁcance is maximized when the lower-degree instances are removed
(i.e.,p-values from 0.687 to above 0.9). In such cases, the test informs us that we cannot
reject the null hypothesis and so we conclude that the observed data are lognormally
distributed.
Sources and sinks. We inspected the presence of instances having no incoming
links (i.e., sources) as well as of instances having no outgoing links (i.e., sinks). As
reported in Table 3, the percentage of both types of instances is not negligible, with
the incidence of sources being nearly double than sinks. This might provide clues for
10

0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000
in-degree
0.0000
0.0005
0.0010
0.0015
0.0020
0.0025Density
in−degree
CCDF
1 10 50 200 700 5000
0.005
0.020
0.050
0.200
0.500
power law fit
log normal fit
exponential fit
poisson fit
Figure 3: Instances in-degree distribution: boxplot and Probability Density
Function (top), and Complementary Cumulative Distribution Function, with
various distribution ﬁttings (bottom).
Figure 4: Top-5 instances by degree, in-degree, and out-degree, respectively, in
the Instances network.
the presence of users belonging to small instances (e.g., private ones) interested in
contents produced by users located in other instances; indeed, since small instances
would host few users, the lack of incoming links is plausible. On the opposite side, the
percentage of sink instances sheds light on that they might contain well-consolidated
user groups, among which there is no need to interact with users belonging to other
instances. This peculiarity might suggest sort of self-suﬃciency in the federation.
T riadic closure. We analyze how well the triadic closure principle is met in
the Instances network, by looking at both transitivity (i.e., the probability that two
11

Table 4: Power-law and lognormal ﬁttings through Kolmogorov-Smirnov test
performed on the Instances network.
degree in-degree out-degree
power-law
xmin 890 588 457
α 2.987 3.166 3.057
p-value 0.939 0.889 0.936
lognormal
interval [1, 9 062] [1, 4 685] [1, 4 377]
µ,σ 5.54, 1.26 5.18, 1.24 5.11, 1.19
p-value 0.113 0.187 0.113
interval [1, 1 307] [1, 878] [1, 742]
µ,σ 5.37, 1.15 5.05, 1.15 4.96, 1.09
p-value 0.01 0.054 0.024
interval [51, 9 062] [51, 4 685] [51, 4 377]
µ,σ 5.82, 0.95 5.53, 0.87 5.45, 0.81
p-value 0.963 0.687 0.932
interval [51, 1 307] [51, 878] [51, 742]
µ,σ 5.65, 0.80 5.40, 0.74 5.31, 0.67
p-value 0.47 0.646 0.816
incident edges are completed by a third one to form a triangle) and local clustering
coeﬃcient (i.e., how strongly connected are the neighbors of a node).
We observe a rather low value of transitivity (0.128), which is actually not sur-
prising given the relatively low density of the network. By contrast, local clustering
coeﬃcient is very high (0.836), and remains as such even when accounting for sink
or source instances (0.687). This evidence is remarkable as it hints at a federative
structure among the instances. Note also that the dichotomy between a relatively
lower transitivity and a higher local clustering coeﬃcient, and more in general, the
low correlation between the two statistics is typical of networks characterized by a
skewed degree distribution. In this respect, the Mastodon Instances network also
keeps this feature.
As a further remark on length-2 closed loops (i.e., reciprocal edges), we observe
a high fraction of reciprocal edges (above 65%). As we shall further observe through
our core decomposition analysis, reciprocity tends not to be limited to users within
the same instance, but involves instances that can be placed very diﬀerently, from the
periphery to the internal of the network, and vice versa.
Degree assortativity . One key structural property of a network at macroscopic
level refers to degree correlation, or degree assortativity, which measures how the
probability of a link between two nodes depends on their degrees [11, 12]. Real-
world social networks are often found to have positive degree assortativity, i.e., well-
connected individuals are linked to other well-connected ones. A recent study has
also shown that this evidence does actually hold for those social networks built upon
shared memberships of group [13].
Remarkably, the Mastodon Instances network exhibits a degree assortativity
which is signiﬁcantly negative (-0.253), which means that well-connected instances are
connected to many instances with few other connections. This might be ascribed to
the heterogeneous degrees characterizing the instances in the network. In this respect,
we argue that, since instances can be bounded to speciﬁc topics, users belonging to
diﬀerent instances with diversiﬁed degrees tend to interact with each other to reach a
broader range of contents, thus ultimately improving their experience on the platform
and increasing the speed of information transfer.
12

Figure 5: Community structure on the Instances network obtained by the
directed Louvain method. The displayed layout is based on the force-directed
drawing Fruchterman-Reingold model, with weight 150 for edges incident nodes
in the same community and weight 1 for edges incident nodes in diﬀerent com-
munities. The pie-chart in the bottom-right corner shows the size proportion of
the communities, along with the size values for the top six largest communities.
The degree disassortativity, i.e., negative degree correlation, exhibited by the
Mastodon Instances network outlines a novelty w.r.t. well-known centralized so-
cial networks. It should be noted that, unlike centralized social networks, Mastodon
users’ behavior is not impacted by recommendation mechanisms. Therefore, the fol-
lowships tend to be built upon the topical interests and preferences that users have,
which leads to a form of topically-induced link formation rather than a popularity-
based attachment. Moreover, this further supports the strong interrelation between
instances which, as we shall discuss in the next section, characterizes peripheral and
inner-core locations in Mastodon.
3.2 Mesoscopic structural analysis
We organize our presentation of the mesoscopic structural analysis of the Instances
network into two parts: the ﬁrst one is devoted to the evaluation of the community
structure that is detected over the network, whereas the second part is concerned with
the core decomposition of the network.
13

3.2.1 Community Detection
We resorted to two well-known community detection algorithms for discovering com-
munities in the Mastodon network of instances, i.e., the Louvain method [14] and the
Infomap method [15]. Louvain is a two-step, hierarchical greedy optimization method
that attempts to maximize the modularity of a partition of the network, whereas
Infomap optimizes the Map equation, which exploits the information-theoretic dual-
ity between ﬁnding community structure in networks and minimizing the description
length of a random walker’s movements on a network. It should be noted that both
methods have been used with success for networks of many diﬀerent types and sizes,
and today, they are the most widely used methods for detecting communities in large
networks. For the Louvain algorithm, we exploited both the original, undirected im-
plementation as well as the directed variant. 6 In the latter case, we also took into
account the edge weights. As regards Infomap, we exploited its weighted directed
implementation.7
The number of communities found by the aforementioned algorithms is shown in
Table 3, for all considered scenarios (cf. notes marked with ∗ and∗∗ below the table).
Please note that we report two values for each case: the one within parenthesis corre-
sponding to the total number of communities while the ﬁrst value refers to the number
of communities that contain at least ten instances. Furthermore, since the Louvain
algorithm optimizes modularity, we also report the modularity values corresponding
to the community structures discovered by Louvain; in this regard, we ﬁnd evidence
of modular structure within the Instances network, with modularity from about 0.29
(undirected network) to 0.35 (weighted directed network).
The number of communities produced by the Louvain method ranges from 5 for
the undirected scenario, to 8 when applying the weighted directed variant; in the
latter case, only 2 out of 8 communities contain less than ten instances. Infomap,
conversely, appears to detect a much higher total number of communities; however,
by inspectioning them, we found out that a large majority are poorly signiﬁcant as
they consist of less than ten instances. Indeed, as reported in the table, we point out
that the two methods actually behave the same in terms of number of relatively large
communities (i.e., 6 communities produced by either method considering weights and
orientation of edges).
Figure 5 illustrates the communities detected by the directed Louvain method on
the Instances network. As it can be observed, two main communities arise in terms
of size (displayed at the bottom and on the right in the ﬁgure), which together contain
about 72% of the instances in the network. Other two communities (on the top in the
ﬁgure) also stand out, as they contain about 21% of the instances. Remarkably, albeit
less evident for the smallest communities, we can observe high connectivity between all
of them, which hints at the high interrelation between instances belonging to diﬀerent
communities.
We also delved into the community structure obtained via the Louvain algorithm
to get more insights into the community boundaries. The largest community (i.e.,
the rightmost one in Figure 5) contains the most relevant Mastodon instance in the
Fediverse, namely mastodon.social, which represents the ﬁrst instance born with the
Mastodon project. Consequently, given its role as a reference point in Mastodon, the
large constellation of instances observed around it is not surprising. Within the same
community, we spotted mstdn.io and octodon.social. The above three instances are
not topically bounded and use English as the primary language, with mstdn.io also
embracing French and octodon.social extending its range of languages to Japanese and
Portuguese. We point out that these instances might share the same community given
their relevance and longevity (e.g., mstdn.io is up since early 2017) in the Fediverse.
6https://github.com/nicolasdugue/DirectedLouvain
7https://www.mapequation.org/infomap/
14

Table 5: Unweighted and weighted conductance scores for the community struc-
tures obtained by Louvain and Infomap methods on the Instances network.
The ﬁrst row refers to the average over all pairwise scores between communities,
whereas the other rows refer to comparisons between the three largest commu-
nities detected by the methods. Weighted variants of conductance account for
edges weight when calculating volumes and cuts.
Louvain Infomap
unweighted weighted unweighted weighted
Instances 0.285 0.239 0.037 0.035
Top-1 vs. Top-2 0.315 0.191 0.370 0.219
Top-1 vs. Top-3 0.816 0.881 0.561 0.721
Top-2 vs. Top-3 0.100 0.059 0.231 0.335
Moving our focus to the second-largest community in size (i.e., the one at the bottom of
the ﬁgure), we distinguished two relevant instances, namely pawoo.net and mstdn.jp.
Their co-existence within the same community is justiﬁed by the fact that both discuss
various topics and share the oﬃcial language (i.e., Japanese). Furthermore, in the
third-largest community, we located the remaining instance, i.e., mastodon.xyz, of the
previously mentioned top-5 largest ones in Mastodon. This is general-purpose and uses
English and French as primary languages. As a ﬁnal remark, we point out that all the
top-5 instances reported in Section 3.1 are established in the largest three communities
discovered by the Louvain algorithm, and hence their relevance is further strengthened
due to their central role within these communities.
We replicated the same explorative analysis also for the community structure de-
tected by Infomap. Remarkably, mostly interesting patterns are found again. Indeed,
the largest community still includes the same instances as in the case of Louvain, with
the addition of mastodon.xyz, which in the Louvain solution is included in the third
largest community. Moreover, this similarity aspect also holds for the second largest
community detected by Louvain and Infomap, respectively, which comprises the two
Japanese instances. These coherent ﬁndings from two diﬀerent community detection
methods would support an underlying logics in the organization of the instances and
their interrelations.
We further investigated the community structures produced by Louvain and In-
fomap according to the aspect of conductance. This is deﬁned as the ratio between
the cut size among two communities (i.e., the sum of the weights of the edges that
link two sets of nodes) and the smaller of the volumes (i.e., the sum of the degrees
of the nodes in a set) of the two communities; we considered both the weighted and
unweighted versions of conductance, where for the latter, the edge weights are equal
to one.
As reported in Table 5, conductance varies depending on the community detection
approach. Both methods induce good separation among communities in theInstances
network, which is indicated by the low values of conductance, but in the Infomap
solution this is much more evident than in the Louvain community structure. Taking
a ﬁner-grain perspective with a focus on the three largest communities produced by
the two methods, respectively, the analysis of the pairwise conductance among such
communities yields two main outcomes: the conductance between the largest and the
third largest communities ranges from about 0.56 (0.72, for the weighted version) w.r.t.
Infomap to above 0.8 when using Louvain; by contrast, regardless of the community
detection method, both unweighted and weighted conductance is much lower for the
pairs involving the second largest community. We tend to ascribe these diﬀerences in
conductance since, on the one hand, the largest communities have signiﬁcant inter-
15

1 10 100 1000 10000
100
200
500
1000
2000
5000
k
knn(k)
Instances network
Top1−community subnetwork
Top2−community subnetwork
Top3−community subnetwork
Figure 6: Illustration of the average nearest neighbor degreeknn(k) as a function
of the degree k. Values on the x-axis and y-axis are log scaled. The three
largest community subnetworks are extracted from the structure obtained by
the weighted directed Louvain method on the Instances network.
community communication ﬂow (and hence, high cut size) due to the involvement of
most relevant instances over the network; on the other hand, this inter-community
connection may be limited due to diﬀerent cultures and languages, as it is the case for
the second largest community which indeed is centered around the Japanese-language
pawoo.net and mstdn.jp instances.
The above remarks also prompted us to measure dependencies between degrees of
neighbor nodes in the communities, by computing the average nearest neighbor degree
distributions. Figure 6 reports the values of the average nearest neighbor degree as
a function of the degree k, which we denote by knn(k). As it can be noted, the
decreasing trend by k is not only clear for the whole Instances network — which is
indeed aligned with the negative degree assortativity previously analyzed — but also
for the subnetworks induced from the top three communities exhibiting disassortative
traits.
3.2.2 Core Decomposition
The core decomposition of a network graph consists in assigning each node with an
integer number (the core index) capturing how well the node is connected with respect
to its neighbors. The result is a threshold-based hierarchical decomposition of the
graph into nested subgraphs, based on a threshold ( k) which is set on the degree of
nodes [16]. The identiﬁcation of such tightly-knit substructures, or cores, has long
been used for understanding mesoscale structural characteristics of a network, with
several applications related to the computation of the local importance of nodes [17],
including the estimation of the spreading potential of nodes [18, 19]. A key advantage
of core decomposition lays on theoretically grounded deﬁnition and uniqueness of its
16

Figure 7: Core decomposition of the Instances network, based on node in-
degrees. Nodes having the same core-index are assigned the same color (inner-
most, resp. outer-most core correspond to red, resp. blue). To avoid clutter-
ing, only edges having a weight greater than the ﬁrst quartile of (unique) edge
weights are displayed.
solution, which can also be computed eﬃciently in linear time w.r.t. the number of
edges in the input graph.
Given a graph G =⟨V,E⟩ and any subset S ⊂ V , let us denote with G[S] =
⟨S,E [S]⟩ the subgraph of G induced by S, where E[S] =E∩ (S×S). For any choice
of an integer value k≥ 0, the k-core of a graph is the maximal induced subgraph
G[Ck] =⟨Ck,E [Ck]⟩ such that the number of neighbors of every node v in Ck is at
least k. The degeneracy K of the graph is the highest value of k such that Ck⁄=∅.
The core associated with the graph degeneracy is also called the inner most core. The
set of all k-cores (i.e., V = C0⊇ C1⊇···⊇ CK) represents the core decomposition
of the graph. Moreover, the core-index, or coreness, of a node v is the largest k such
that v∈ Ck and v /∈ Ck+1. Note also that the above deﬁnitions originally apply to
undirected graphs, however they are straightforwardly adapted to directed graphs so
that the degree of a node may refer to either its in-degree or out-degree.
The core decomposition of the Instances network revealed further hints at the
presence of a federative mechanism. As reported in Table 3, one major ﬁnding is
the remarkable number of instances in the inner cores of the network, and even in
the inner-most core, which ranges from 189 based on total degree to 208 based on
in-degree, and also includes the top-5 instances previously discussed in Section 3.1.
This prompted us to explore the inner-most core of the Instances network, in its
three variants, i.e., via a total-degree-based, in-degree-based, and out-degree-based
decomposition of the network.
A few remarks arise from the observation of the inner-most cores, such as the high
degeneracy under all the considered scenarios: indeed, we found out the values 201,
96, and 97 of degeneracy corresponding to a core decomposition based on total de-
17

0 20 40 60 80
indegree−based core−index
no. of links
250
500
1000
2000
3000
5000
100000 in−links
out−links
Figure 8: Comparison between no. of in-links and out-links for each indegree-
based core-index of the instances network. Values on the y-axis are log scaled.
gree, in-degree, and out-degree, respectively. As expected, density is high, and so is
also the reciprocity — note that statistics still refer to directed subgraphs, although
the core-decomposition may have been generated based on the undirected (i.e., total
degree-based) deﬁnition. Although less evident, the disassortative trait is still present,
denoting the coexistence in the inner-most core of instances exhibiting diversiﬁed yet
high degrees. Given the high density, average path length and diameter almost halve
compared to their original values. According to a more cohesive structure, transitivity
signiﬁcantly increases (nearly seven times the value in the whole network) and aligns
with the local clustering coeﬃcient. Also, the number of strongly connected compo-
nents (i.e., #SCCs) heavily shrinks to 1, resp. 2, for the indegree-based, resp. degree-
and out-degree-based decomposition.
We also evaluated the presence of a community structure in the three variants of
inner-most core. The (undirected) Louvain method determines an exceptional reduc-
tion in modularity compared to the value found for the whole network (i.e., from nearly
0.3 to 0.03-0.04), along with a small decrease in the number of signiﬁcant communities
(from 5 to 3). By contrast, when considering edge orientation and weights, we observe
a slight decrease in modularity (from about 0.35 to 0.25) and community structure
size (from 8 to 4-6). Interestingly, the number of communities detected by Infomap
strongly decreases compared to the value observed for the whole network, with one
giant community and the remaining 3-4 containing less than ten instances.
Our major focus in this analysis was about whether there exists a signiﬁcant
amount of connections between the periphery and the inner parts of the Instances
network. To this purpose, we started with a visual exploration of the cores of the
network, whose results are shown in Figure 7 for the indegree-based decomposition.
Looking at the ﬁgure, the display of the cores unveils evidence of directed links with
a relatively high weight (i.e., solid lines in the chart), which correspond to followships
from users of instances in the inner-most core to users of more peripheral instances,
18

but also followships in the opposite direction, even coming from the outer-most cores
towards the inner-most core. This certainly relates to the negative degree assortativ-
ity previously emphasized, and it represents quite a novel pattern in social networks,
which usually do not show direct links between core and peripheral nodes.
We further delved into this trait by examining the number of incoming links and
outgoing links for each core-index, as depicted in Figure 8. Lower core-index values
(up to about 20) correspond to a number of outgoing links that is signiﬁcantly higher
than the number of incoming links, which is expected (i.e., instances within these
cores tend to interact with more relevant ones, while the opposite occurs less, or not
at all). However, as the core-index value increases, unveiling an interesting feature of
bidirectionality in the followships behavior for mid and internal cores. Further inter-
estingly, some instances with high core-index (i.e., from about 70) show a prevalence
of outgoing links. A ﬁnal, remarkable trait of the Instances network is that a major
portion of connections (i.e., about 190 000, which is more than 87% of the total edge
set size) depart from and arrive to the inner-most core.
3.3 Discussion
Our analysis of the structural characteristics of the Instances network has revealed
noteworthy features, which might set Mastodon apart from well-known centralized
social networks. Here, we summarize such features, thus answering our third research
question (Q3) on the “ﬁngerprint” of the network of Mastodon instances.
The evaluation at the macroscopic level has unveiled various unique traits of
Mastodon. Interesting aspects are already present in the degree distribution of the
instances: indeed, as opposed to well-known centralized social networks that tends to
ﬁt a power-law distribution, Mastodon reveals a better and extensive ﬁtting with a
lognormal distribution, along with the presence of few instances that show a degree
up to one order of magnitude higher than the average degree in the network.
Referring to the federation concept as a set of independent yet cooperating in-
stances, we have found a number of aspects (e.g., high clustering coeﬃcient values and
percentage of reciprocal edges) indicating that Mastodon adopts a federative mecha-
nism. We mark this mechanism as a mutual reinforcement to reduce the sectorization
bias that can characterize the individual instances: indeed, they might be topically-
bounded due to the decentralized nature of the platform, however, their users generally
look for a broader spectrum of topics, and hence they interact across diﬀerent instances.
We point out that, besides distinguishing Mastodon from other social networks, this
trait is central to the platform itself, thanks to the shared protocol (i.e., ActivityPub)
among instances.
Related to this mutual reinforcement is the observed negative degree correlation
(i.e., degree disassortativity), which represents another distinctive Mastodon feature.
This indicates that users belonging to diﬀerent instances with heterogeneous degrees
tend to interact with each other, aiming at achieving a better user experience and
increasing the speed of information transfer.
The evaluation at the mesoscopic level has also highlighted traits that contribute to
determine the ﬁngerprint of Mastodon. Through community detection, we shed light
on the modular structures within instances, which provide further clues to the existence
of a cohesive and federative framework among them. Further investigations have
revealed how these modules might be composed and inﬂuenced. We observed topics,
languages and temporal processes (e.g., their creation time) as main inﬂuence factors.
Moreover, through core decomposition, we spotted an unusual and conspicuous number
of connections from the inner cores to the peripheral ones (Figure 7), with a peculiar
bidirectional balance between links observed starting from intermediate core-index
values. Additionally, we observed that the majority of links between instances involve
the inner-most core.
19

In conclusion, we can state that Mastodon reveals clear distinctive signs compared
to what is commonly observed for other social networks, making it unique in multi-
ple aspects. Among these traits, we detected the logical emergence of a federative
mechanism, which allows independent instances to cooperate with each other, thus
connecting their respective users.
4 Backbone of the Instances network
We focus here on a network simpliﬁcation task which is designed to “prune” the
network graph, i.e., to detect and remove irrelevant or spurious edges with the purpose
of making it easier unveiling hidden substructures of a network. One simple solution
to the above problem is to exploit information on the edge weights so to remove all
edges having weight below a pre-determined, global threshold. Unfortunately, besides
the diﬃculty of choosing a proper threshold for any input network, this approach tends
to remove all ties that are weak at network level, thus discarding local properties at
node level.
By contrast, a theoretically well-founded approach to ﬁltering out noisy edges
from a network is based on generative null models. The general idea is to deﬁne a null
model based on node distribution properties, use it to compute a p-value for every
edge (i.e., to determine the statistical signiﬁcance of properties assigned to edges from
a given distribution), and ﬁnally ﬁlter out all edges having p-value above a chosen
signiﬁcance level. In other terms, this allows to maintain only those edges that are
least likely to have occurred due to random chance, hereinafter referred to as backbone
of the network. Clearly, imposing lower signiﬁcance level will yield to more restrictive
substructures, thus giving place to a potential hierarchy of backbones.
Identifying the backbone of a network graph allows us to isolate the latent structure
of the network under analysis, based on the removal of statistically insigniﬁcant edges.
In this regard, statistical models for graph pruning have been conceived to deal with
weighted networks, so that the node degree and/or the node strength are used to
generate a model that deﬁnes a random set of graphs resembling the observed network.
One of the earliest methods is the disparity ﬁlter [20], which evaluates the strength
and degree of each node locally. The null hypothesis is that the strength of a node is
redistributed uniformly at random over the node’s incident edges. Unlike disparity, the
null model proposed by Dianati [21] is maximum-entropy based and hence unbiased.
Upon it, two models are deﬁned: the marginal likelihood ﬁlter (MLF), which is a
linear-cost method that assigns a signiﬁcance score to each edge based on the marginal
distribution of edge weights, and the global likelihood ﬁlter , which accounts for the
correlations among edges. While performing similarly, the latter is more costly than
the former, therefore we will consider the MLF model in our analysis.
4.1 Details on the disparity and MLF models for weighted
directed networks
Both disparity and MLF were originally conceived for undirected networks, but they
can easily be extended to weighted directed networks as well. In the following, we
provide a brief review of the two models, and refer the interested reader to the original
works for further details [20, 21].
In the weighted directed network scenario, let us denote with kin
i and kout
i the
in-degree and out-degree, respectively, for any node vi. Also, the total strength si
associated to the node has two contributions, namely the incoming strength sin
i and
the outgoing strength sout
i , which are obtained by summing up all the weights of the
incoming or outgoing links, respectively.
20

The disparity model aims to preserve the edges carrying a weight that represents
a local signiﬁcant deviation with respect to a statistical null model for the local as-
signment of weights by using the disparity function. Moreover, since in-degree and
out-degree distributions are assumed not to be necessarily correlated, incoming and
outgoing links associated to a node are considered separately.
To assess the eﬀect of inhomogeneities in the weights at the local level, the following
functions are deﬁned for any node vi:
Υout(vi) =kout
i
∑
j
(pout
ij )2, Υin(vi) =kin
i
∑
j
(pin
ji )2,
where the summation term in the ﬁrst, resp. second, expression characterizes the
level of local heterogeneity in the outgoing edge weights, resp. incoming edge weights.
The null model for the disparity ﬁlter requires for each incoming, resp. outgoing,
link of vi with weight w, the calculation of the p-value αin
ji , resp. αout
ij , that its
normalized weight pin
ji = w/sin
j , resp. pout
ij = w/sout
i , is compatible with the null
hypothesis. The incoming and outgoing links that carry weights that can be considered
not compatible with a random distribution, can be ﬁltered out according to a chosen
signiﬁcance level α; more speciﬁcally, all the incoming, resp. outgoing, links with
αin
ji < α, resp. αout
ij < α reject the null hypothesis and hence can be considered as
signiﬁcant heterogeneities.
LetT denote the number of unit edges, where each weighted edge is seen as multiple
edges of unit weight. In the MLF model, the null model assigns each edge to nodes vi
andvj which are selected independently and randomly with probabilities proportional
to their outgoing and incoming strengths, respectively. More in detail, the probability
that an edge from vi to vj is associated to them is given by pij =
sout
i sin
j
T 2 . The
probability that a weight w out of T unit edges will choose nodes vi and vj as their
endpoints is given by a binomial distribution with probability of successw and number
of trials T . Therefore, the null model deﬁnes for every couple of nodes a probability
for their edge weight,σij, depending on their strengths. For each directed edge (vi,v j)
with weight wij, its p-value, denoted as γij, is computed as:
γij =
∑
w≥wij
Pr[σij =w|sout
i ,s in
j ,T ] =
∑
w≥wij
(
T
w
)
pw
ij(1−pij)T−w.
According to this null model, the higher the strengths of two nodes, the higher the
weight of an edge connecting them is to be in order to be considered statistically
signiﬁcant. Conversely, the lower the strengths of the two nodes, the lower the weight
of a linking edge must be in order to be retained by the ﬁlter.
4.2 Results on the pruned networks
Table 6 reports on main structural characteristics of the Instances network after
graph pruning processes through the application of the MLF and disparity models
(for the sake of presentation, values in the original, i.e., unpruned network are also
reported).
Using MLF, 55.1% and 68.5% of the edges are removed with signiﬁcance level
of 0.05 and 0.01, respectively. The pruning eﬀect on the network size is much more
evident when using the disparity model, with at least 43.3% of nodes and 91.1% of
edges removed. By contrast, the reciprocity percentage in the MLF pruned networks
is about 7% less than in the original network, whereas the disparity pruned networks
show a small increase of reciprocal edges (about 3%).
Interestingly, while it can be observed a signiﬁcant decrease in the average in-
degree — from around 31 in the original, unpruned network up to 11-15, resp. about
4-5, using MLF and disparity, respectively — the degree assortativity remains negative
21

Table 6: Summary of structural characteristics of the Instances network before
and after graph pruning. For each of the two graph pruning models, we tested
under signiﬁcance levels at 1% and 5%, which are indicated within brackets.
unpruned MLF MLF Disparity Disparity
(0.05) (0.01) (0.05) (0.01)
#nodes 6 960 6 454 6 081 3 949 3 260
#edges 216 504 97 141 68 100 19 208 12 849
reciprocity 65.1% 57.9% 58.4% 67.8% 68.5%
density 0.004 0.002 0.002 0.001 0.001
average degree∗ 41.966 21.390 15.860 6.429 5.182
average in-degree 31.107 15.051 11.199 4.864 3.941
% sources 12% 13.1% 14.1% 24.1% 26.5%
% sinks 6.6% 6.5% 6.7% 6.9% 7.9%
degree assortativity∗ -0.274 -0.249 -0.224 -0.244 -0.272
degree assortativity -0.253 -0.231 -0.214 -0.253 -0.283
average path length 2.330 3.080 3.270 2.530 2.520
diameter 5 6 7 5 6
transitivity∗ 0.128 0.070 0.066 0.024 0.018
clustering coeﬃcient∗ 0.836 0.502 0.493 0.846 0.839
clustering coeﬃcient (full averaging) ∗ 0.687 0.411 0.390 0.447 0.370
#strongly connected components 1 305 1 276 1 278 1 228 1 121
#weakly connected components ∗ 1 1 1 1 1
modularity by Louvain∗ 0.289 0.495 0.540 0.469 0.495
#communities by Louvain∗ 5 (5) 7 (7) 7 (7) 8 (8) 8 (9)
modularity by Louvain∗∗ 0.353 0.442 0.442 0.369 0.375
#communities by Louvain∗∗ 6 (8) 6 (8) 7 (9) 7 (9) 7 (11)
#communities by Infomap∗∗ 6 (54) 10 (103) 12 (82) 6 (30) 5 (38)
∗ Statistic calculated by discarding edge orientation
∗∗ Statistic calculated by taking into account the edge weights
in all cases, with a small decrease in module under MLF, and comparable or increased
in module for disparity with signiﬁcance level 0 .05 and 0.01, respectively. Average
path length is also comparable, yet with some ﬂuctuations, to its original value after
applying disparity, while it marginally increases under MLF. The latter determines an
increase in the network diameter by one and two units for signiﬁcance level 0 .05 and
0.01, respectively, while disparity raises it by one unit only under 0 .01.
We also observe a general reduction of the transitivity, which becomes nearly one-
half by MLF and even lower by disparity model, compared to its original value. The
local clustering coeﬃcient remains substantially unchanged under disparity, while it is
nearly halved under MLF; however, when excluding source and sink nodes, the eﬀect
is similar for both pruning models and the gap from the original value is smaller.
Both pruning approaches lead to a relatively small decrease in the number of
strongly connected components, which is slightly more evident under the disparity
pruning. Looking at the community structures, the impact of the two pruning models
varies depending on the speciﬁc community detection method. As concerns Louvain,
the number of communities has little variations, while the pruning is always beneﬁcial
according to an improved modularity. On the other hand, the number of communities
produced by Infomap almost doubles in the MLF pruned network, which suggests
that the pruning eﬀect due to the MLF model would favor the detection of many
small communities by Infomap.
22

4.3 Discussion
To answer our fourth research question ( Q4), we discussed how the backbone of the
Mastodon network of instances is unveiled by leveraging on graph pruning approaches
based on generative null models. These approaches allow us to discard noisy edges in
the network and shed light on its well-rooted underlying structures.
MLF and disparity models showed to diﬀer in pruning intensity, with the latter
being more severe. To explain this, recall that the disparity ﬁlter accounts for both
the degree and strength of a node locally, whereas MLF relies on a maximum-entropy
based, unbiased null model: with this in mind, the disparity ﬁlter is likely to be more
heavily conditioned on in-degree and out-degree distributions that were observed in the
Instances network to best ﬁt with a lognormal distribution and, to a less extent, with
a power-law distribution, which is the best scenario of application of disparity [20].
A major remark that stands out is nonetheless a certain consistency with the struc-
tural properties of the Instances network; that is, apart from a signiﬁcant decrease
in transitivity as an expected eﬀect of the pruning, the observed structural charac-
teristics in the pruned networks remain comparable to those of the original network,
or even more emphasized as for the modularity. In particular, the disassortative trait
is still present in the backbone, which certainly strengthens our previous ﬁnding so
to distinguish Mastodon from many other social networks in terms of negative degree
correlation.
It is also worth noticing that the top-5 instances discussed in Section 3.1, regardless
of the particular community detection method are still found after all the considered
pruning scenarios, which indicates that these instances are important constituent of the
backbone of the Instances network. Overall, even the pruned scenarios exhibit traits
related to a tight structure among instances. We recall that pruning approaches aim
to ﬁlter out noise from networks, and therefore these traits are further strengthened
following a cleaner perspective.
5 Evolution of the network of Mastodon instances
In this section we answer our ﬁfth research question (Q5), namely “how has Mastodon
evolved during the last few years? ”. To this aim, we organize our presentation into
four parts: the ﬁrst one is devoted to a comparison between the main network we
introduced into this work, i.e., Instances, and the network of instances previously
studied in [6]; the second part focuses on the subnetwork composed of online instances
in our updated network; the third part describes our analysis of centrality of the
instances based on the PageRank method; ﬁnally, we report a summary of the main
lessons learned from our study of the Mastodon growth.
5.1 Comparison with the earlier Mastodon network
In this section we discuss a comparative evaluation between the Mastodon instances
network introduced in this work and the earlier network presented in [6]. By replicating
on the latter the same structural analysis as we have carried out on the Instances
network, we gain insights into the evolution of Mastodon during the last 3 years,
focusing on a set of macroscopic and mesoscopic characteristics that may conﬁrm
some traits or highlight novel trends. Table 7 shows the structural properties that
we observed on earlier Mastodon network along with the percentage increase values
obtained by the corresponding characteristics in our network (cf. Table 3).
Besides the already noticed larger size of the current network (with a +73% of
instances and a +127% of links) compared to the earlier one, a general remark that
arises is that the two networks of Mastodon instances show diﬀerences in several char-
acteristics, though with two major exceptions: the one relating to the average path
23

Table 7: Evolution of the Instances network through a comparison of struc-
tural characteristics with the earlier state-of-the-art network. Percentage
changes refer to the increase/decrease of a statistic from the value observed
in the earlier network. For the community statistics, percentage values refer to
the number of communities containing at least ten instances.
Earlier [6] % change
#nodes 4 015 +73%
#edges 95 221 +127%
reciprocity 70.9% -8%
density 0.006 -33%
average degree∗ 30.612 +37%
average in-degree 23.716 +31%
% sources 5.63% +113%
% sinks 9.39% -30%
degree assortativity∗ -0.287 -5%
degree assortativity -0.291 -13%
average path length 2.340 0%
diameter 5 0%
transitivity∗ 0.135 -5%
clustering coeﬃcient∗ 0.848 -1%
clustering coeﬃcient (full averaging) ∗ 0.710 -3%
#strongly connected components 604 +116%
#weakly connected components ∗ 1 0%
modularity by Louvain∗ 0.356 -19%
#communities by Louvain∗ 4 (4) +25%
modularity by Louvain∗∗ 0.397 -11%
#communities by Louvain∗∗ 3 (5) +100%
#communities by Infomap∗∗ 5 (63) +20%
degree-based degeneracy 141 +43%
degree-based inner-most-core #nodes 120 +58%
degree-based inner-most-core #edges 11 227 +130%
in-degree-based degeneracy 69 +39%
in-degree-based inner-most-core #nodes 123 +69%
in-degree-based inner-most-core #edges 11 401 +152%
out-degree-based degeneracy 70 +39%
out-degree-based inner-most-core #nodes 115 +70%
out-degree-based inner-most-core #edges 10 385 +155%
∗ Statistic calculated by discarding edge orientation
∗∗ Statistic calculated by taking into account the edge weights
length and the diameter, which are both unchanged, and the other one referring to
both global and local clustering coeﬃcient, which are slightly lower (i.e., from -1% to
5%) in the current network. This would hint at a consolidated small-world behavior
by the Mastodon instances.
As for the remaining properties, we observe in our updated network a small de-
crease in the percentage of reciprocal edges, while the percentage of sources and sinks
is respectively more than doubled and decreased of less than one third. One reason-
able explanation for that relates to an increased presence of oﬄine instances in the
Instances network whose further neighborhood however cannot be explored via API.
24

It should however be noted that our updated Instances network still outperforms in
size the earlier network even when removing their respective sources and sinks, with
a percentaage increase of 66% in the number of instances.
Also, in the Instances network, the number of strongly connected components is
more than doubled, while the decrease in density (about one third) should be related
to a high increase in the number of sources, which is in turn an eﬀect of our deep
crawling.
A major aspect of interest we found out in the Instances network, that is, degree
disassortativity, holds similarly for the earlier network as well. This is noteworthy as
it unveils consistency of this property in Mastodon over time.
Our updated network also shows more communities but a slighly less modular
structure than the earlier one. Again, this should be ascribed to the impact due to the
increase in the number of source instances. As concerns core decomposition, we notice
that a high degeneracy also characterizes the earlier network, and the values according
to three degree variants are actually close to those observed in the Instances network
in proportion of the respective node-set sizes, with only 9%, resp. 2%, of change
when considering degree-based decomposition, resp. in-degree- or out-degree-based
decomposition.
5.2 Narrowing the focus on online Mastodon instances
Our further step towards a comprehensive understanding of the current landscape
of Mastodon instances is an analysis of the subnetwork corresponding to the online
instances only, i.e., the Online-Instances network, which was previously introduced
in Section 2.2. The goal here is to check whether our ﬁndings on the overall Instances
network reﬂect on its subnetwork of online instances as well, or on the contrary there
are signiﬁcant deviations on some traits. Table 8 summarizes the comparison between
the two networks.
A ﬁrst remark clearly arises from the reduction in both the number of instances
(-84%) and links (-65%) compared to the Instances network. This is clearly expected
due to the deep API-based crawling capabilities, yet at the same time it captures the
currently active snapshot of Mastodon in the Fediverse. We conjecture that, after a
few years of novelty and curiosity that Mastodon attracted, a steady-state has been
reached as composed by those instances that might be recognized as most established
for the Mastodon users. The subnetwork of online instances also turns out to be more
tightly knit than the Instances network, as indicated by the increase in reciprocity
(+8%), density (one order of magnitude higher), increase in average degree and in-
degree (more than doubled), decrease in average path length and diameter (-13%
and -20%, respectively), the almost tripled transitivity, halved number of strongly
connected components, and decrease in the percentage of sources and sinks (about
80%). The latter aspect suggests that the high percentages (particularly for sources)
found in the Instances network is likely to be ascribed to the diﬀerent status (i.e.,
online or oﬄine) of the instances, which aﬀects the search outcomes. Nonetheless, since
the Online-Instances network contains currently active and online instances, their
users might be more engaged in developing interrelations. Notably, the disassortative
trait is still present in the Online-Instances network, thus conﬁrming it as a well-
rooted feature in the network of Mastodon instances.
As concerns the community structure, the Online-Instances network exhibits
similar characteristics to the overall Instances, with a relatively small reduction in
undirected modularity – which becomes negligible for the weighted directed case – and
in the number of communities only when accounting for edge weight and orientation.
Interestingly, we point out that the number of signiﬁcant communities (i.e., those con-
taining at least ten instances) in the Online-Instances is the same for both Louvain
and Infomap method, which is consistent with the situation already observed in the
25

Table 8: Evolution of the Instances network through a comparison of struc-
tural characteristics with the Online-Instances network. Percentage changes
refer to the increase/decrease of a statistic from the value observed in the In-
stances network. For the community statistics, percentage values refer to the
number of communities containing at least ten instances.
Online-Instances % change
#nodes 1 115 -84%
#edges 75 046 -65%
reciprocity 70.6% +8%
density 0.06 +1400%
average degree∗ 87.074 +107%
average in-degree 67.306 +116%
% sources 2.1% -83%
% sinks 1.4% -79%
degree assortativity∗ -0.290 +6%
degree assortativity -0.284 +12%
average path length 2.020 -13%
diameter 4 -20%
transitivity∗ 0.369 +188%
clustering coeﬃcient∗ 0.712 -15%
clustering coeﬃcient (full averaging) ∗ 0.689 0%
#strongly connected components 41 -97%
#weakly connected components ∗ 1 0%
modularity by Louvain∗ 0.229 -21%
#communities by Louvain∗ 5 (5) 0%
modularity by Louvain∗∗ 0.336 -5%
#communities by Louvain∗∗ 4 (7) -33%
#communities by Infomap∗∗ 4 (15) -33%
degree-based degeneracy 168 -16%
degree-based inner-most-core #nodes 153 -19%
degree-based inner-most-core #edges 17 449 -32%
in-degree-based degeneracy 80 -17%
in-degree-based inner-most-core #nodes 173 -17%
in-degree-based inner-most-core #edges 20 320 -29%
out-degree-based degeneracy 82 -15%
out-degree-based inner-most-core #nodes 158 -19%
out-degree-based inner-most-core #edges 17 987 -32%
∗ Statistic calculated by discarding edge orientation
∗∗ Statistic calculated by taking into account the edge weights
Instances network. Analogous considerations can be made for the core decomposition
results: indeed, not only the degeneracy remains still high in all three variants – with
a decrease of about 15% w.r.t. Instances – but also the sizes of the corresponding
inner-most cores are proportionally higher than those in Instances according to the
respective node-set sizes, with 405%, resp. 419 and 403%, of increase when consider-
ing degree-based decomposition, resp. in-degree- and out-degree-based decomposition.
This is remarkable as it provides evidence of a well-established trend in Mastodon as
to have a conspicuous concentration of instances in the inner-most central region of
the network.
26

5.3 Instance centrality
To further investigate the growth of Mastodon, we evaluated how the importance of
the instances developed during the years. To this aim, we resorted to the well-known
PageRank method [22], which assigns prestige scores to the nodes in a network. Using
this tool, we comparatively evaluated results obtained on all the networks derived from
our crawling data, i.e., the Expanded-Instances, the Instances, and the Online-
Instances network, as well as the earlier state-of-the-art network. This approach
allowed us to assess whether and to what extent the centrality of instances was aﬀected
by the introduction of new instances and/or the dismission of instances (e.g., instances
went to oﬄine mode for a relatively long period, cf. Section 2).
We assessed the strength of relatedness between the PageRank solutions obtained
on the above networks by means of two standard rank correlation methods, namely
Kendall correlation coeﬃcient [23] and Fagin’s intersection metric [24]. The Kendall
correlation τ evaluates the similarity between rankings represented through set of
ordered pairs assigned to the same set of nodes, relying on the number of inversions
of pairs needed to transform one ranking into the other. Given two rankings R′ and
R′′ obtained on the same set of N items, this non-parametric correlation is formally
expressed as follows:
τ(R′,R′′) = 1− 2∆(P(R′),P(R′′))
N(N− 1) ,
where ∆(P(R′),P(R′′)) denotes the symmetric diﬀerence between R′ andR′′, i.e.,
the number of unshared pairs between the two rankings. The values returned by τ are
within the range [-1, 1], where 1 indicates that the two rankings are identical and -1
means that one rank is the reverse order of the other.
The Kendall correlation assigns the same importance to all items, regardless of
their position. Therefore, we also employed Fagin’s intersection metric F , which con-
siders partial rankings and assigns higher weights to items at the top of the lists. Given
two ranking listsR′ andR′′, Fagin’s metric is formalized as follows:
F (R′,R′′,k ) = 1
k
k∑
q=1
|R′
:q∩R′′
:q|
q ,
where k is a parameter to determine the number of items to consider from the top of
both rankings, andR:q indicates the set of nodes from the 1st to the qth position in the
ranking. Hence, we refer to F as the average over the sum of the weighted overlaps
calculated considering the ﬁrst k nodes in both rankings. Its values are within the
range [0, 1], where the highest the value, the better the score.
The results of our evaluations are reported in Table 9. Since Kendall correlation
requires a comparison of rankings of nodes from the same set, the results obtained on
any pair of networks correspond to the shared set of nodes. Note also that in all cases
the Kendall correlation values are high, and associated with p-values equal to zero,
which means rejection of the hypothesis of absence of correlation.
Let us ﬁrst consider the comparison betweenExpanded-Instancesand Instances
networks (i.e., ﬁrst column of Table 9). The Fagin’s intersection values observed for
various k values are very high, as expected. Indeed, as described in Section 2, non-
Mastodon instances represent the boundary of our Expanded-Instances network,
and we have only partial knowledge of them. Hence, the more central role taken by
the Mastodon instances is reasonable. However, while these remarkably high values
denote that non-Mastodon instances only slightly inﬂuence the Mastodon ones, the
relatively smaller value obtained for F10 indicates that this inﬂuence actually aﬀects
the PageRank scores of the top-10 instances.
The comparison between Online-Instances and Instances (i.e., second column
of the table) allows us to inspect the role of online vs. non-online instances. Paying
27

Table 9: Ranking analysis performed via Kendall’s tau (τ) and Fagin’s intersec-
tion metric (F ) with variousk values (indicated as subscripts) on the PageRank
solutions obtained on the Mastodon networks.
Expanded-Instances Online-Instances Expanded-Instances Instances
vs. Instances vs. Instances vs. Online-Instances vs.Earlier
τ 0.953 0.899 0.883 0.626
F10 0.860 0.935 0.886 0.569
F50 0.911 0.814 0.813 0.563
F100 0.918 0.832 0.835 0.545
F500 0.938 0.821 0.828 0.487
F1 000 0.915 0.748 0.738 0.473
attention to F10, the noticeable value indicates how the most central Mastodon in-
stances are well-rooted in their role, regardless of potential variations, even evident,
in the number of the online ones at any given time. Although a bit less evident, this
trend remains valid in the range [50, 100], while we observed a further decrease with
F1 000; the latter might indicate the existence of relevant instances among the oﬄine
or temporarily inactive ones.
As concerns Expanded-Instances vs. Online-Instances, we observe in general
slightly lower values w.r.t. the previous comparison, which might be ascribed to the
absence of some oﬄine yet relevant instances as well as to the lack of contributions
given by non-Mastodon instances. However, the still high correlation values observed
further support the centrality of the currently online Mastodon instances.
The last comparison we consider is between the Instances and the Earlier net-
work. It is not surprising to observe a general decrease in the correlation values, given
the temporal diﬀerence between the two networks. Nonetheless, the corresponding
ranking lists over the shared set of instances show a good Kendall correlation (above
0.6); in addition, the Fagin’s intersection metric values are also quite high, for various
k values. Overall, despite the introduction of new instances after about three years,
the results indicate that a signiﬁcant portion of those instances that are shared be-
tween the two networks have not drastically changed their strategic location in their
respective networks.
5.4 Discussion
To investigate the evolution of Mastodon from an instance perspective, we compared
the various networks presented in Section 2, keeping our focus on the Instances net-
work. First, we performed a comparison with the Earlier network, which refers to
about three years ago, as previously discussed. This allowed us to highlight the struc-
tural development of Mastodon. Although the diﬀerent sizes have some eﬀect on the
measures, we noticed some well-established features. In particular, we report the same
average path length and diameter in both networks, whose consolidation suggests that
Mastodon instances act in a small-world fashion. The Earlier network also yields the
same disassortative trait spotted for the more recent Instances network. Thus, we
can establish the existence of this property over time. This consolidation allows us to
consider the negative degree correlation as a distinctive trait of Mastodon w.r.t. cen-
tralized social networks and paves the way for further studies concerning interactions
among instances through the federative approach. From a mesoscopic perspective, the
evaluation of the core decomposition brings us to conﬁrm another important trait.
Indeed, as initially shown by the Earlier network and subsequently conﬁrmed by the
Instances one, Mastodon instances exhibit high degeneracy values, comparable when
accounting for the diﬀerent sizes.
Along with the temporal development, we analyzed the active status of Mastodon,
28

focusing on the subnetwork induced from its online instances (i.e., theOnline-Instances
network). This narrowing produces an exceptional reduction in size (-84% instances
and -65% links among them), which might indicate a stationary state in the number of
online Mastodon instances. Indeed, the spotted online ones are found to be no longer
transient (e.g., testing instances) or driven by the feeling of novelty, but they are
rather well-deﬁned and established. Remarkably, the Online-Instances network still
exhibits the disassortative trait. The core decomposition of the Online-Instances
network conﬁrms the high degeneracy found in the other Mastodon networks, setting
it as a well-established trait of Mastodon, along with a remarkable concentration of
instances in the inner-most core.
Finally, the study of the instance centrality based on PageRank allowed us to
assert that the most prestigious instances are settled in their roles, also considering the
temporal development, which indicates an actual evolution of the platform towards a
stable state. The instance-rankings computed over diﬀerent pairs of instance networks
have generally shown good or very high correlation, with relatively small ﬂuctuations
mainly due to the centrality contributions from oﬄine or boundary instances, but also
as an eﬀect of the growth of the platform over time.
Overall, and in light of all the above ﬁndings, we can state that Mastodon has
reached sort of structural stability. This well-established structure couples with a solid
federative mechanism among instances, which acts as mutual-reinforcement towards
the sectorization bias induced by the decentralized scenario.
6 Conclusion and Future Work
Nowadays, DOSNs express an alternative, user-centric approach to support online
interactions among users, with attention on self-hosted networking services, and own-
erships in terms of code of conduct and moderation policies for each operating server.
Mastodon represents the most widely adopted and recognized platform in the Fedi-
verse of DOSNs. In this work, we provided the ﬁrst in-depth analysis of the network
of Mastodon instances based on the largest and most up-to-date Mastodon relational
data existing so far, which was originally built in this work. We analyzed our instance
network models from diﬀerent perspectives (i.e., macroscopic, mesoscopic, backbone)
to highlight the main structural characteristics that describe Mastodon. Among these,
we spotted remarkable traits that deﬁne the ﬁngerprint of Mastodon, setting it apart
from well-known OSNs. Finally, we investigated the evolution of Mastodon, by identi-
fying features that have changed over time and those representing supporting pillars.
Our next research stage will be focused on the underlying network of Mastodon
users. As discussed in this work, our collected data are ﬁne-grained at a user level,
although the stored information concern user memberships and relations only, i.e.,
social contents are discarded. In this regard, by still leveraging the network of links
formed by users, we plan to study the behavior of users not only within their home
instances, but also their relations across instances. In particular, we believe it would
be interesting to investigate the roles that users may take in their instances, at various
levels of activity, and possibly alternate or opposite roles that the same users may
exhibit when interacting with users of other instances. This would allow us to also
analyze the dichotomy between contribution and consumption of information induced
by the user behavior relations over the instances of Mastodon and other DOSNs in
the Fediverse.
References
[1] La Cava, L., Ruﬀo, L.E., Tagarelli, A.: Towards mesoscopic structural analysis of
the fediverse of decentralized social networks. In: Proc. of the 9th Int. Conf. on
29

Complex Networks and Their Applications (CNA) – Book of Abstracts (2020)
[2] Guidi, B., Conti, M., Passarella, A., Ricci, L.: Managing social contents in decen-
tralized online social networks: A survey. Online Soc. Networks Media 7, 12–29
(2018). doi:10.1016/j.osnem.2018.07.001
[3] Datta, A., Buchegger, S., Vu, L.-H., Strufe, T., Rzadca, K.: Decentralized online
social networks. In: Furht, B. (ed.) Handbook of social network technologies and
applications, pp. 349–378. Springer, Boston, MA, (2010). doi:10.1007/978-1-4419-
7142-5 17
[4] Cerisara, C., Jafaritazehjani, S., Oluokun, A., Le, H.T.: Multi-task dialog act
and sentiment recognition on Mastodon. In: Proc. COLING Conf., pp. 745–754
(2018). https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C18-1063/
[5] Trienes, J., Cano, A.T., Hiemstra, D.: Recommending users: Whom to follow on
federated social networks. CoRR abs/1811.09292 (2018)
[6] Zignani, M., Gaito, S., Rossi, G.P.: Follow the ”mastodon”: Structure and evolu-
tion of a decentralized online social network. In: Proc. ICWSM Conf, pp. 541–551
(2018). https://aaai.org/ocs/index.php/ICWSM/ICWSM18/paper/view/17862
[7] Raman, A., Joglekar, S., Cristofaro, E.D., Sastry, N., Tyson, G.: Challenges in
the Decentralised Web: The Mastodon Case. In: Proc. ACM IMC Conf., pp.
217–229 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1145/3355369.3355572
[8] Zignani, M., Quadri, C., Gaito, S., Cheriﬁ, H., Rossi, G.P.: The Footprints
of a ”Mastodon”: How a Decentralized Architecture Inﬂuences Online Social
Relationships. In: Proc. IEEE INFOCOM Workshops, pp. 472–477 (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1109/INFCOMW.2019.8845221
[9] Zulli, D., Liu, M., Gehl, R.: Rethinking the ’Social’ in ’Social Media’: Insights
into Topology, Abstraction, and Scale on the Mastodon Social Network. New
Media & Society 22(7), 1188–1205 (2020)
[10] Varol, O., Ferrara, E., Davis, C.A., Menczer, F., Flammini, A.: Online human-
bot interactions: Detection, estimation, and characterization. In: Proc. of the
Eleventh Int. Conf. on Web and Social Media (ICWSM), pp. 280–289 (2017)
[11] Newman, M.E.J.: Assortative mixing in networks. Physical Review Letters 89(20)
(2002). doi:10.1103/physrevlett.89.208701
[12] Newman, M.E.J.: Mixing patterns in networks. Physical Review E 67(2) (2003).
doi:10.1103/physreve.67.026126
[13] Fisher, D.N., Silk, M.J., Franks, D.W.: The perceived assortativity of social net-
works: Methodological problems and solutions. CoRR abs/1701.08671 (2017).
1701.08671
[14] Blondel, V.D., Guillaume, J.-L., Lambiotte, R., Lefebvre, E.: Fast unfolding of
communities in large networks. Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and
Experiment 10, 10008 (2008)
[15] Rosvall, M., Bergstrom, C.T.: Maps of information ﬂow reveal community struc-
ture in complex networks. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
(PNAS) 105(1118) (2008)
[16] Seidman, S.: Network structure and minimum degree. Social Networks 5, 269–287
(1983). doi:10.1016/0378-8733(83)90028-X
[17] Malliaros, F.D., Giatsidis, C., Papadopoulos, A.N., Vazirgiannis, M.: The core
decomposition of networks: theory, algorithms and applications. VLDB J. 29(1),
61–92 (2020)
[18] Kitsak, M., Gallos, L.K., Havlin, S., Liljeros, F., Muchnik, L., Stanley, H.E.,
Makse, H.: Identiﬁcation of inﬂuential spreaders in complex networks. Nature
Physics 6(11), 888–893 (2010)
30

[19] Cali` o, A., Tagarelli, A., Bonchi, F.: Cores matter? an analysis of graph
decomposition eﬀects on inﬂuence maximization problems. In: 12th ACM
Conference on Web Science. WebSci ’20, pp. 184–193. Association for Com-
puting Machinery, New York, NY, USA (2020). doi: 10.1145/3394231.3397908.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3394231.3397908
[20] Serrano, M. ´A., Bogu˜ n´ a, M., Vespignani, A.: Extracting the multiscale backbone
of complex weighted networks. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
(PNAS) 106(16), 6483–6488 (2009). doi: 10.1073/pnas.0808904106
[21] Dianati, N.: Unwinding the hairball graph: Pruning algorithms for weighted
complex networks. Physical Review E 93, 012304 (2016)
[22] Brin, S., Page, L.: The anatomy of a large-scale hypertextual Web search engine.
Computer Networks and ISDN Systems 30(1-7), 107–117 (1998)
[23] Abdi, H.: The Kendall Rank Correlation Coeﬃcient. In: Encyclopedia of Mea-
surement and Statistics, (2007)
[24] Fagin, R., Kumar, R., Sivakumar, D.: Comparing Top k Lists. SIAM Journal on
Discrete Mathematics 17(1), 134–160 (2003)
31

Appendix
0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000
degree
0.0000
0.0005
0.0010
0.0015
0.0020Density
degree
CCDF
1 10 50 200 700 5000
0.005
0.020
0.050
0.200
0.500
power law fit
log normal fit
exponential fit
poisson fit
Figure 9: Instances full-degree distribution: boxplot and Probability Density
Function (top), and Complementary Cumulative Distribution Function, with
various distribution ﬁttings (bottom).
32

0 1000 2000 3000 4000
out-degree
0.0000
0.0005
0.0010
0.0015
0.0020
0.0025Density
out−degree
CCDF
1 10 50 200 700 5000
0.005
0.020
0.050
0.200
0.500
power law fit
log normal fit
exponential fit
poisson fit
Figure 10: Instances out-degree distribution: boxplot and Probability Density
Function (top), and Complementary Cumulative Distribution Function, with
various distribution ﬁttings (bottom).
33