Wh¯anau: A Sybil-proof Distributed Hash Table
Chris Lesniewski-Laas M. Frans Kaashoek
MIT CSAIL, Cambridge, MA, USA
{ctl,kaashoek}@mit.edu
Abstract
Wh¯ anau is a novel routing protocol for distributed
hash tables (DHTs) that is efﬁcient and strongly resis-
tant to the Sybil attack. Wh¯ anau uses the social connec-
tions between users to build routing tables that enable
Sybil-resistant lookups. The number of Sybils in the so-
cial network does not affect the protocol’s performance,
but links between honest users and Sybils do. When there
are n well-connected honest nodes, Wh¯ anau can tolerate
up to O(n/ log n) such “attack edges”. This means that
an adversary must convince a large fraction of the honest
users to make a social connection with the adversary’s
Sybils before any lookups will fail.
Wh¯ anau uses ideas from structured DHTs to build
routing tables that contain O(√n log n) entries per node.
It introduces the idea of layered identiﬁers to counter
clustering attacks, a class of Sybil attacks challenging for
previous DHTs to handle. Using the constructed tables,
lookups provably take constant time. Simulation results,
using social network graphs from LiveJournal, Flickr,
Y ouTube, and DBLP , conﬁrm the analytic results. Ex-
perimental results on PlanetLab conﬁrm that the protocol
can handle modest churn.
1 Introduction
Decentralized systems on the Internet are vulnerable to
the “Sybil attack”, in which an adversary creates numer-
ous false identities to inﬂuence the system’s behavior [9].
This problem is particularly pernicious when the system
is responsible for routing messages amongst nodes, as in
the Distributed Hash Tables (DHT) [ 24] which underlie
many peer-to-peer systems, because an attacker can pre-
vent honest nodes from communicating altogether [ 23].
If a central authority certiﬁes identities as genuine,
then standard replication techniques can be used to for-
tify these protocols [4,20]. However, the cost of universal
strong identities may be prohibitive or impractical. In-
stead, recent work [27, 26, 8, 19, 17, 5] proposes using the
weak identity information inherent in a social network
to produce a completely decentralized system. This pa-
per resolves an open problem by demonstrating an efﬁ-
cient, structured DHT that enables honest nodes to reli-
ably communicate despite a concerted Sybil attack.
To solve this problem, we build on a social network
composed of individual trust relations between honest
people (nodes). This network might come from personal
or business connections, or it might correspond to some-
thing more abstract, such as ISP peering relationships.
We presume that each participant keeps track of its im-
mediate neighbors, but that there is no central trusted
node storing a map of the network.
An adversary can inﬁltrate the network by creating
many Sybil nodes (phoney identities) and gaining the
trust of honest people. Nodes cannot directly distin-
guish Sybil identities from genuine ones (if they could,
it would be simple to reject Sybils). As in previous
work [27], we assume that most honest nodes have more
social connections to other honest nodes than to Sybils;
in other words, the network has a sparse cut between the
honest nodes and the Sybil nodes.
In the context of a DHT, the adversary cannot pre-
vent immediate neighbors from communicating, but can
try to disrupt the DHT by creating many Sybil identities
which spread misinformation. Suppose an honest node u
wants to ﬁnd a key y and will recognize the correspond-
ing value (e.g., a signed data block). In a typical struc-
tured DHT, u queries another node which u believes to
be “closer” to y, which forwards to another even-closer
node, and so on until y is found. The Sybil nodes can
disrupt this process by spreading false information (e.g.,
that they are close to a particular key), then intercept-
ing honest nodes’ routing queries, and responding with
“no such key” or delaying queries endlessly. Unstruc-
tured protocols that work by ﬂooding or gossip are more
robust against these attacks, but pay a performance price,
requiring linear time to ﬁnd a key.
This paper’s main contribution is Wh¯anau 1, a novel
protocol that is the ﬁrst solution to Sybil-proof routing
that has sublinear run time and space usage. Wh¯ anau
achieves this performance by combining the idea of ran-
dom walks from recent work [ 26] with a new way of
constructing IDs, which we call layered identiﬁers . To
store up to k keys per node, Wh¯ anau builds routing ta-
bles with O(
√
kn log n) entries per node. Using these
routing tables, lookups provably take O(1) time. Thus,
Wh¯ anau’s security comes at low cost: it scales similarly
to one-hop DHTs that provide no security [ 11, 10]. We
have implemented Wh¯ anau in simulation and in a simple
1Wh¯ anau, pronounced “far-no”, is a M¯ aori word. It is cognate with
the Hawai’ian word ’ohana, and means “extended family” or “kin”.
1

instant-messaging application running on PlanetLab [ 2].
Experiments with real-world social graphs and these im-
plementations conﬁrm Wh¯ anau’s theoretical properties.
Wh¯ anau provides one-hop lookups, but our implemen-
tation is not aware of network locality. Wh¯ anau also must
rebuild its routing tables periodically to handle churn in
the social network and in the set of keys stored in the
DHT. However, its routing tables are sufﬁciently redun-
dant that nodes simply going up and down doesn’t impact
lookups, as long as enough honest nodes remain online.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2
summarizes the related work. Section 3 informally states
our goals. Section 4 states our assumptions about the so-
cial network, and provides a precise deﬁnition of “Sybil-
proof”. Section 5 gives an overview of Wh¯ anau’s routing
table structure and introduces layered IDs. Section 6 de-
scribes Wh¯ anau’s setup and lookup procedures in detail.
Section 7 states lemmas proving Wh¯ anau’s good perfor-
mance. Section 8 describes Wh¯ anau’s implementation on
PlanetLab [2] and in a simulator. Using these implemen-
tations Section 9 conﬁrms its theoretical properties by
simulations on social network graphs from popular In-
ternet services, and investigates its reaction to churn on
PlanetLab. Section 10 discusses engineering details and
ideas for future work, and Section 11 summarizes.
2 Related work
Shortly after the introduction of scalable peer-to-peer
systems based on DHTs, the Sybil attack was recognized
as a challenging security problem [ 9, 16, 23, 22]. A num-
ber of techniques [ 4, 20, 22] have been proposed to make
DHTs resistant to a small fraction of Sybil nodes, but all
such systems ultimately rely on a certifying authority to
perform admission control and limit the number of Sybil
identities [9, 21, 3].
Several researchers [ 17, 19, 8, 5] proposed using so-
cial network information to fortify peer-to-peer systems
against the Sybil attack. The bootstrap graph model [8]
introduced a correctness criterion for secure routing us-
ing a social network and presented preliminary progress
towards that goal, but left a robust and efﬁcient protocol
as an open problem.
Recently, SybilGuard and SybilLimit [ 27, 26] have
shown how to use a “fast mixing” social network and
random walks on these networks (see Section 4.1) to de-
fend against the Sybil attack in general decentralized sys-
tems. Using SybilLimit, an honest node can certify other
nodes as “probably honest”, accepting at most O(log n)
Sybil identities per attack edge. (Each certiﬁcation uses
O(√n) bandwidth.) For example, SybilLimit’s vetting
procedure can be used to check that at least one of a set
of storage replicas is likely to be honest.
A few papers have adapted the idea of random walks
for purposes other than SybilLimit. Nguyen et al. used it
SETUP LOOKUP
Social Network Routing Tables
key
value
(key,value) records
Figure 1: Overview of Wh¯ anau. SETUP builds structured rout-
ing tables which L OOKUP uses to route queries to keys.
for Sybil-resilient content rating [ 25], Y uet al. applied it
to recommendations [ 28], and Danezis and Mittal used
it for Bayesian inference of Sybils [ 7]. This paper is the
ﬁrst to use random walks to build a Sybil-proof DHT. 2
3 Goals
As illustrated in Figure 1, the Wh¯ anau protocol is a pair
of procedures S ETUP and L OOKUP . S ETUP (·) is used
both to build routing tables and to insert keys. It cooper-
atively transforms the nodes’ local parameters (e.g. key-
value records, social neighbors) into a set of routing table
structures stored at each node. After all nodes complete
the S ETUP phase, any node u can call L OOKUP (u, key)
to use these routing tables to ﬁnd the target value.
3.1 Scenario
We illustrate Wh¯ anau with a simple instant messaging
(IM) application which we have implemented on Planet-
Lab. Wh¯ anau provides a rendezvous service for the IM
clients. Each user is identiﬁed by a public key, and pub-
lishes a single self-signed tuple (public key, current IP
address) into the DHT. 3 To send an IM to a buddy iden-
tiﬁed by the public key P K, a client looks up P K in the
DHT, veriﬁes the returned tuple’s signature using P K,
and then sends a packet to that IP address.
In our implementation, each user runs a Wh¯ anau node
which stores that user’s record, maintains contact with
the user’s social neighbors, and contributes to the DHT.
(In this example, each node stores a single key-value
record, but in general, there may be an arbitrary number
k of keys stored per node.) When the user changes loca-
tion, the client updates the user’s record with the new IP
address. The user’s DHT node need not be continuously
available when the user is ofﬂine, as long as a substantial
fraction of honest nodes are available at any given time.
3.2 Security goal
Wh¯ anau handles adversaries who deviate from the proto-
col in Byzantine ways: the adversaries may make up ar-
bitrary responses to queries from honest nodes and may
create any number of pseudonyms (Sybils) which are in-
distinguishable from honest nodes. When we say that
2Our workshop paper [ 14] noted the opportunity and sketched an
early precursor to Wh¯ anau.
3Of course, a realistic application would require a PKI for hu man-
readable names, protection against replays, privacy controls, and so on.
NSDI 2010 2

Wh¯ anau is “Sybil-proof”, we mean that L OOKUP has a
high probability of returning the correct value, despite
arbitrary attacks during both the S ETUP and L OOKUP
phases. (Section 4 makes this deﬁnition more precise.)
The adversary can always join the DHT normally
and insert arbitrary key-value pairs, including a differ-
ent value for a key already in the DHT. Thus, Wh¯ anau
provides availability, but not integrity: L OOKUP should
ﬁnd all values inserted by honest nodes for the speci-
ﬁed key, but may also return some values inserted by
the adversary. Integrity is an orthogonal concern of the
application: for example, the IM application ﬁlters out
any bad values by verifying the signature on the returned
key-value records, and ignoring records with invalid sig-
natures. (As an optimization, DHT nodes may opt to dis-
card bad records proactively, since they are of no use to
any client and consume resources to store and transmit.)
3.3 Performance goals
Simply ﬂooding L OOKUP queries over all links of the
social network is Sybil-resistant, but not efﬁcient [ 8].
The adversary’s nodes might refuse to forward queries,
or they might reply with bogus values. However, if there
exists any path of honest nodes between the source node
and the target key’s node through the social network, then
the adversary cannot prevent each of these nodes from
forwarding the query to the next. In this way, the query
will always reach the target node, which will reply with
the correct value. Unfortunately, a large fraction of the
participating nodes are contacted for every lookup, do-
ing O(n) work each time.
On the other hand, known one-hop DHTs are very
efﬁcient — requiring O(1) messages for lookups and
O(√n) table sizes 4— but not secure against the Sybil
attack. Our goal is to combine this optimal efﬁciency
with provable security. As a matter of policy and fair-
ness, we believe that a node’s table size and bandwidth
consumption should be proportional to the node’s degree
(i.e., highly connected nodes should do more work than
casual participants). While it is possible to adapt Wh¯ a-
nau to different policies, this paper assumes that the goal
is a proportional policy.
4 Deﬁning “Sybil-proof”
Like previous work [ 27, 26], Wh¯ anau relies on certain
features of social networks. This section describes our
assumptions, outlines why they are useful, and deﬁnes
what it means for a DHT to be “Sybil-proof” under these
assumptions.
4If n = 5 × 108, the approximate number of Internet hosts in
2010, then a table of √n may be acceptable for bandwidth and storage
constrained devices, as opposed to a table that scales linea rly with the
number of hosts.
Figure 2: The social network. A sparse cut (the dashed attack
edges) separates the honest nodes from the Sybil nodes. The
Sybil region’s size is not well-deﬁned, since the adversary can
create new pseudonyms at will.
4.1 Fast-mixing social networks
The social network is an undirected graph whose nodes
know their immediate neighbors. Figure 2 conceptually
divides the social network into two parts, an honest re-
gion containing all honest nodes and a Sybil region con-
taining all Sybil identities. An attack edge is a connec-
tion between a Sybil node and an honest node. An honest
edge is a connection between two honest nodes [ 27]. An
“honest” node whose software’s integrity has been com-
promised by the adversary is considered a Sybil node.
The key assumption is that the number of attack edges,
g, is small relative to the number of honest nodes, n. As
pointed out by earlier work, one can justify this sparse
cut assumption by observing that, unlike creating a Sybil
identity, creating an attack edge requires the adversary
to expend social-engineering effort: the adversary must
convince an honest person to create a social link to one
of its Sybil identities.
Wh¯ anau’s correctness will depend on the sparse cut
assumption, but its performance will not depend at all
on the number of Sybils. In fact, the protocol is totally
oblivious to the structure of the Sybil region. Therefore,
the classic Sybil attack, of creating many fake identities
to swamp the honest identities, is ineffective.
Since we rely on the existence of a sparse cut to dis-
tinguish the honest region from the Sybil region, we also
assume that there is no sparse cut dividing the honest
region in two. Given this assumption, the honest region
forms an expander graph. Expander graphs are fast mix-
ing, which means that a short random walk starting from
any node will quickly approach the stationary distribu-
tion [6]. Roughly speaking, the ending node of a random
walk is a random node in the network, with a probability
distribution proportional to the node’s degree. The mix-
ing time, w, is the number of steps a random walk must
take to reach this smooth distribution. For a fast mixing
network, w = O(log n). Section 9.1 shows that graphs
extracted from some real social networks are fast mixing.
NSDI 2010 3

Typical magnitude Description
n arbitrary n≥ 1 number of honest nodes
m O (n) number of honest edges
w O (log n) mixing time of honest region
k arbitrary k≥ 1/m keys stored per (virtual) node
g O (n/w) number of attack edges
ǫ O (gw/n) fraction of loser nodes
Table 1: Social network parameters used in our analysis.
4.2 Sampling by random walk
The random walk is Wh¯ anau’s main building block, and
is the only way the protocol uses the social network. An
honest node can send out a w-step walk to sample a ran-
dom node from the social network. If it sends out a large
number of such walks, and the social network is fast mix-
ing and has a sparse cut separating the honest nodes and
Sybil nodes, then the resulting set will contain a large
fraction of random honest nodes and a small number of
Sybil nodes [ 26]. Because the initiating node cannot tell
which individual samples are good and which are bad,
Wh¯ anau treats all sampled nodes equally, relying only
on the fact that a large fraction will be good nodes.
Some honest nodes may be near a concentration of at-
tack edges. Such loser nodes have been lax about ensur-
ing that their social connections are real people, and their
view of the social graph does not contain much informa-
tion. Random walks starting from loser nodes are more
likely to escape into the Sybil region. As a consequence,
loser nodes must do more work per lookup than winner
nodes, since the adversary can force them to waste re-
sources. Luckily, only a small fraction of honest nodes
are losers, because a higher concentration of attack edges
in one part of the network means a lower concentration
elsewhere. Most honest nodes will be winner nodes.
In the stationary distribution, proportionally more ran-
dom walks will land on high-degree nodes than low-
degree nodes. To handle high-degree nodes well, each
Wh¯ anau participant creates one virtual node [ 24] per
social network edge. Thus, good random samples are
distributed uniformly over the virtual nodes. All virtual
nodes contribute equal resources to the DHT and obtain
equal levels of service (i.e., keys stored/queried). This
use of virtual nodes fulﬁls the policy goal (Section 3.3)
of allocating both workload and trust according to each
person’s level of participation in the social network.
4.3 Main security deﬁnition
Table 1 summarizes the social network parameters intro-
duced thus far. We can now succinctly deﬁne our main
security property:
Deﬁnition. A DHT protocol is (g, ǫ, p)-Sybil-proof if,
against an active adversary with up to g attack edges, the
protocol’s LOOKUP procedure succeeds with probability
≥ p on any honest key, for at least (1 − ǫ)n honest nodes.
Given a (g, ǫ, 1/2)-Sybil-proof protocol, it is always
possible to amplify the probability of success p exponen-
tially close to 1 by, for example, running multiple inde-
pendent instances of the protocol in parallel.For example,
running 3 log2 n instances would reduce the failure prob-
ability to less than 1/n3, essentially guaranteeing that all
lookups will succeed with high probability (since there
are only n2 possible source-target node pairs). 5
The parameter ǫ represents the fraction of loser nodes,
which is a function of the distribution of attack edges
in the network. If attack edges are distributed uniformly,
then ǫ may be zero; if attack edges are clustered, then a
small fraction of nodes may be losers.
We use the parameters in Table 1 to analyze our proto-
col, but do not assume that all of them are known by the
honest participants. Wh¯ anau needs order-of-magnitude
estimates of m, w, and k to choose appropriate table sizes
and walk lengths. It does not need to know g or ǫ.
Proving that a protocol is Sybil-proof doesn’t imply
that it cannot be broken. For example, Wh¯ anau is Sybil-
proof but can be broken by social engineering attacks
that invalidate the assumption that there is a sparse cut
between the honest and Sybil regions. Similarly, a pro-
tocol may be broken by using cryptographic attacks or
attacks on the underlying network infrastructure. These
are serious concerns, but these are not the Sybil attack as
described by Douceur [ 9]. Wh¯ anau’s novel contribution
is that it is the ﬁrst DHT protocol totally insensitive to
the number of Sybil identities.
5 Overview of Wh ¯anau
This section outlines Wh¯ anau’s main characteristics.
5.1 Challenge
The Sybil attack poses three main challenges for a struc-
tured DHT. First, structured DHTs forward queries us-
ing small routing tables at each node. Simply by creating
many cheap pseudonyms, an attacker will occupy many
of these table entries and can disrupt queries [ 23].
Second, a new DHT node builds and maintains its
routing tables by querying its neighbors’ tables. An at-
tacker can reply to these queries with only its own nodes.
Over time, this increases the fraction of table entries the
attacker occupies [22].
Third, DHTs assign random IDs to nodes and apply
hash functions to keys in order to spread load evenly. By
applying repeated guess-and-check, a Sybil attacker can
choose its own IDs and bypass these mechanisms. This
enables clustering attacks targeted at a speciﬁc key. For
example, if the adversary inserts many keys near the tar-
geted key, then it might overﬂow the tables of honest
nodes responsible for storing that part of the key space.
5For Wh¯ anau, it turns out to be more efﬁcient to increase the routing
table size instead of running multiple parallel instances.
NSDI 2010 4

Alternatively, the adversary might choose all its IDs to
fall near the targeted key. Then, honest nodes might have
to send many useless query messages to Sybil nodes be-
fore eventually querying an honest node.
5.2 Strawman protocol
To illustrate how random walks apply to the problem of
Sybil-proof DHT routing, consider the following straw-
man protocol. In the setup phase, each node initiates
r = O(
√
km) independent length- w random walks on
the social network. It collects a random key-value record
from the ﬁnal node of each walk, and stores these nodes
and records in a local table.
To perform a lookup, a node u consults its local record
table. If the key is not in this table (which is likely), u
broadcasts the key to the O(
√
km) nodes v1, . . . , vr in
its table. If those nodes’ tables are sufﬁciently large, with
high probability, at least one node vi will have the needed
key-value record in its local table.
The strawman protocol shows how random walks ad-
dress the ﬁrst and second challenges above. If the number
of attack edges is small, most random walks stay within
the honest region. Thus, the local tables contain mostly
honest nodes and records. Furthermore, nodes use only
random walks to build their tables: they never look at
each other’s tables during the setup process. As a result,
the adversary’s inﬂuence does not increase over time.
The strawman sidesteps the third challenge by es-
chewing node IDs entirely, but this limits its efﬁciency.
Lookups are “one-hop” in the sense that the ideal lookup
latency is a single network round-trip. However, since
each lookup sends a large number of messages, perfor-
mance will become limited by network bandwidth and
CPU load as the network size scales up. By adding struc-
ture, we can improve performance. The main challenge
is to craft the structure in such a way that it cannot be
exploited by a clustering attack.
5.3 Wh ¯anau’s global structure
Wh¯ anau’s structure resembles other DHTs such as
Chord [ 24], SkipNet [ 12], and Kelips [ 11]. Like Skip-
Net and Chord, Wh¯ anau assumes a given, global, circu-
lar ordering ≺ on keys (e.g., lexical ordering). The no-
tation x1 ≺ x2 ≺ · · · ≺xz means that for any indexes
i < j < k , the key xj is on the arc (xi, xk).
No metric space. Like SkipNet, but unlike Chord and
many other DHTs, Wh¯ anau does not embed the keys
into a metric space using a hash function. If Wh¯ anau
were to use a hash function to map keys into a metric
space, an adversary could use guess-and-check to con-
struct many keys that fall between any two neighboring
honest keys. This would warp the distribution of keys in
the system and defeat the purpose of the hash function.
Therefore, Wh¯ anau has noa priori notion of “distance”
between two keys; it can determine only if one key falls
between two other keys. This simple ordering provides
some structure (e.g., a node can have a successor table),
but still requires defenses to clustering attacks.
Fingers and successors. Most structured DHTs have
routing tables with both “far pointers”, sometimes called
ﬁngers, and “near pointers”, called leaves or successors.
Wh¯ anau follows this pattern. All nodes havelayered IDs
(described below) which are of the same data type as the
keys. Each node’s ﬁnger table contains O(
√
km) point-
ers to other nodes with IDs spaced evenly over the key
space. Likewise, each node’s successor table contains
the O(
√
km) honest key-value records immediately fol-
lowing its ID. Finger tables are constructed simply by
sending out O(
√
km) random walks, collecting a ran-
dom sample of (honest and Sybil) nodes along with their
layered IDs. Successor tables are built using a more com-
plex sampling procedure (described in Section 6.1).
Together, an honest node’s ﬁnger nodes’ successor ta-
bles cover the entire set of honest keys, with high proba-
bility. This structure enables fast one-hop lookups: sim-
ply send a query message to a ﬁnger node preceding
the target key. The chosen ﬁnger is likely to have the
needed record in its successor table. (If not, a few retries
with different ﬁngers should sufﬁce.) In contrast with the
strawman protocol above, this approach uses a constant
number of messages on average, and O(log n) messages
(which may be sent in parallel) in the worst case.
Layered IDs. Wh¯ anau defends against clustering at-
tacks using layers, illustrated in Figure 3. Each node
uses a random walk to choose a random key as its layer-0
ID. This ensures that honest nodes’ layer-0 IDs are dis-
tributed evenly over the keys stored by the system.
To pick a layer-1 ID, each node picks a random entry
from its own layer-0 ﬁnger table and uses that node’s ID.
To pick a layer-2 ID, each node takes a random layer-1
ﬁnger’s ID, and so on for each of the ℓ = O(log km) lay-
Layer 0
Layer 1
Sybil ID cluster
mirrored by
layer-1 honest IDs
Layer 1 is
balanced
Cluster attack on layer 1:
layer 1 unbalanced,
but layer 0 balanced
Figure 3: Honest IDs (black dots) in layer 0 are uniformly dis-
tributed over the set of keys (X axis), while Sybil IDs (red do ts)
may cluster arbitrarily. Honest nodes choose their layer i + 1
IDs from the set of all layer i IDs (honest and Sybil). Thus,
most layers are balanced. Even if there is a clustering attac k on
a key, it will always be easy to ﬁnd an honest ﬁnger near the
key using a random sampling procedure.
NSDI 2010 5

ers. In the end, each node is present at, and must collect
successor tables for, ℓ positions in the key space.
Layers defend against key clustering and ID cluster-
ing attacks. If the attacker inserts many keys near a target
key, this will simply cause more honest nodes to choose
layer-0 IDs in that range. The number of keys the at-
tacker can insert is limited by the number of attack edges.
Thus, a key clustering attack only shifts around the hon-
est nodes’ IDs without creating any hot or cold spots.
Nodes choose their own IDs; thus, if the attacker
chooses all its layer-0 IDs to fall immediately before a
target key, it might later be difﬁcult to ﬁnd an honest
ﬁnger near the key. However, if the adversary manages
to supply an honest node u with many clustered layer-0
IDs, then this increases the probability that u will pick
one of these clustered IDs as its own layer-1 ID. As a re-
sult, the distribution of honest layer-1 IDs tends to mimic
any clusters in the Sybil layer-0 IDs. This increases the
honest nodes’ presence in the adversary-chosen range,
and increases the likelihood that layer 1 ﬁnger tables are
balanced between honest and Sybil nodes.
The same pattern of balance holds for layers 2 through
ℓ−1. As long as most layers have a good ratio of honest to
Sybil IDs in every range, random sampling (as described
in Section 6.2) can ﬁnd honest ﬁngers near any target key.
5.4 Churn
There are three sources of churn that Wh¯ anau must han-
dle. First, computers may become temporarily unavail-
able due to network failures, mobility, overload, crashes,
or being turned off daily. We call this node churn. Wh¯ a-
nau builds substantial redundancy into its routing tables
to handle Sybil attacks, and this same redundancy is suf-
ﬁcient to handle temporary node failures. Section 9.5
shows that increasing node churn results in a modest ad-
ditional overhead.
The second source of churn is changes to the social
relationships between participants. This social churn re-
sults in adding or deleting social connections. A single
deleted link doesn’t impact Wh¯ anau’s performance, as
long as the graph remains fast mixing and neither end-
point became malicious. (If one did become malicious, it
would be treated as an attack edge.) However, Wh¯ anau
doesn’t immediately react to social churn, and can only
incorporate added links by rebuilding its routing tables.
Nodes which leave the DHT entirely are not immediately
replaced. Therefore, until S ETUP is invoked, the routing
tables, load distribution, and so on will slowly become
less reﬂective of the current social network, and perfor-
mance will slowly degrade.
Social network churn occurs on a longer time scale
than node churn. For example, data from Mislove et al.
indicates that the Flickr social network’s half-life is ap-
proximately 6 weeks [ 18]. Running S ETUP every day, or
every few minutes, would keep Wh¯ anau closely in sync
with the current social graph.
The ﬁnal and most challenging source of churn is
changes to the set of keys stored in the DHT. This key
churn causes the distribution of keys to drift out of sync
with the distribution of ﬁnger IDs. Reacting immediately
to key additions and deletions can create “hot spots” in
successor tables; this can only be repaired by re-running
SETUP . Thus, in the worst case, newly stored keys will
not become available until the tables are rebuilt. For
some applications — like the IM example, in which each
node only ever stores one key — this is not a problem as
long as tables are refreshed daily. Other applications may
have application-speciﬁc solutions.
Unlike key churn, turnover of values does not present
a challenge for Wh¯ anau: updates to the value associated
with a key may always be immediately visible. For exam-
ple, in the IM application, a public key’s current IP ad-
dress can be changed at any time by the record’s owner.
V alue updates are not a problem because Wh¯ anau does
not use the value ﬁelds when building its routing tables.
Key churn presents a trade-off between the bandwidth
consumed by rebuilding tables periodically and the delay
from a key being inserted to the key becoming visible.
This bandwidth usage is similar to stabilization in other
DHTs; however, insecure DHTs can make inserted keys
visible immediately, since they do not worry about clus-
tering attacks. We hope to improve Wh¯ anau’s respon-
siveness to key churn; we outline one idea in Section 10.
6 The Wh ¯anau protocol
This section deﬁnes S ETUP and L OOKUP in detail.
6.1 Setup
The S ETUP procedure takes each node’s social con-
nections and the local key-value records to store as in-
puts, and constructs four routing tables:
• ids(u, i): u’s layer-i ID, a random key x.
• ﬁngers (u, i): u’s layer-i ﬁngers as (id , address) pairs.
• succ(u, i): u’s layer-i successor (key, value) records.
• db(u): a sample of records used to construct succ.
The global parameters rf , rs, rd, and ℓ determine the
sizes of these tables; S ETUP also takes an estimate of the
mixing time w as a parameter. Typically, nodes will have
a ﬁxed bandwidth and storage budget to allocate amongst
the tables. Section 7 and Section 9 will show how varying
these parameters impacts Wh¯ anau’s performance.
The S ETUP pseudocode (Figure 4) constructs the rout-
ing tables in ℓ+1 phases. The ﬁrst phase sends out rd ran-
dom walks to collect a sample of the records in the social
network and stores them in the db table. These samples
are used to build the other tables. The db table has the
good property that each honest node’s stored records are
frequently represented in other honest nodes’ db tables.
NSDI 2010 6

SETUP (stored-records(·), neighbors(·); w, rd, rf , rs, ℓ)
1 for each node u
2 do db(u)← SAMPLE -R ECORDS (u, rd)
3 for i← 0 to ℓ− 1
4 do for each node u
5 do ids(u, i) ← CHOOSE -ID(u, i)
6 ﬁngers (u, i) ← FINGERS (u, i, rf )
7 succ(u, i) ← SUCCESSORS (u, i, rs)
8 return ﬁngers , succ
SAMPLE -R ECORDS (u, rd)
1 for j← 1 to rd
2 do vj← RANDOM -WALK(u)
3 (key j, value j )← SAMPLE -R ECORD (vj)
4 return{(key 1, value 1), . . . ,(key rd , value rd )}
SAMPLE -R ECORD (u)
1 (key, value)← RANDOM -C HOICE (stored-records(u))
2 return (key, value)
RANDOM -WALK(u0)
1 for j← 1 to w
2 do uj← RANDOM -C HOICE (neighbors(uj−1))
3 return uw
CHOOSE -ID(u, i)
1 if i = 0
2 then (key, value)← RANDOM -C HOICE (db(u))
3 return key
4 else (x, f)← RANDOM -C HOICE (ﬁngers (u, i− 1))
5 return x
FINGERS (u, i, rf )
1 for j← 1 to rf
2 do vj← RANDOM -WALK(u)
3 xj← ids(vj , i)
4 return{(x1, v1), . . . ,(xrf , vrf )}
SUCCESSORS (u, i, rs)
1 for j← 1 to rs
2 do vj← RANDOM -WALK(u)
3 Rj← SUCCESSORS -S AMPLE (vj, ids(u, i))
4 return R1∪···∪Rrs
SUCCESSORS -S AMPLE (u, x0)
1 {(key 1, value 1), . . . ,(key rd , value rd )}← db(u)
(sorted so that x0≼key 1≼···≼key rd≺ x0)
2 return{(key 1, value 1), . . . ,(key t, value t)} (for small t)
Figure 4: SETUP procedure to build structured routing tables. Each functio n’s ﬁrst parameter is the node it executes on.
The remaining phases are used to construct the ℓ lay-
ers. For each layer i, SETUP chooses each node’s IDs and
constructs its successor and ﬁnger tables. The layer-0 ID
is chosen by picking a random key from db. Higher-layer
IDs and ﬁnger tables are deﬁned mutually recursively.
FINGERS (u, i, rf ) sends out rf random walks and col-
lects the resulting nodes and ith layered IDs into u’sith
layer ﬁnger table. For i > 0, C HOOSE -ID (u, i) chooses
u’sith layered ID by picking a random ﬁnger ID stored
in u’s(i − 1)th ﬁnger table. As explained in Section 5.3,
this causes honest IDs to cluster wherever Sybil IDs have
clustered, ensuring a rough balance between good ﬁngers
and bad ﬁngers in any given range of keys.
Once a node has its ID for a layer, it must collect the
successor list for that ID. It might seem that we could
solve this the same way Chord does, by bootstrapping off
LOOKUP to ﬁnd the ID’s ﬁrst successor node, then ask-
ing it for its own successor list, and so on. However, as
pointed out in Section 5.1, this recursive approach would
enable the adversary to ﬁll up the successor tables with
bogus records over time. To avoid this, Wh¯ anau ﬁlls each
node’ssucc table without using any other node’ssucc ta-
ble; instead, it uses only the db tables.
The information about any layered ID’s successors is
spread around the db tables of many other nodes, so
the S UCCESSORS subroutine must contact many nodes
and collect little bits of the successor list together. The
straightforward way to do this is to ask each node v for
the closest record in db(v) following the ID.
The S UCCESSORS subroutine repeatedly calls
SUCCESSORS -S AMPLE rs times, each time accumu-
lating a few more potential-successors. S UCCESSORS -
SAMPLE works by contacting a random node and
sending it a query containing the ID. The queried node
v, if it is honest, sorts all of the records in its local db(v)
by key, and then returns the closest few records to the
requestor’s ID. The precise number t of records sampled
does not matter for correctness, so long as t is small
compared to rd. Section 7’s analysis simply lets t = 1.
This successor sampling technique ensures that for ap-
propriate values of rd and rs, the union of the repeated
queries will contain all the desired successor records.
Section 7.1 will state this quantitatively, but the intuition
is as follows. Each S UCCESSORS -S AMPLE query is an
independent and random sample of the set of keys in the
system which are near the ID. There may be substantial
overlap in the result sets, but for sufﬁciently large rs, we
will eventually receive all immediate successors. Some
of the records returned will be far away from the ID and
thus not really successors, but they will show up only
a few times. Likewise, bogus results returned by Sybil
nodes consume some storage space, but do not affect cor-
rectness, since they do not prevent the true successors
from being found.
NSDI 2010 7

LOOKUP (u, key)
1 v← u
2 repeat value← TRY(v, key)
3 v← RANDOM -WALK(u)
4 until TRY found valid value, or hit retry limit
5 return value
TRY(u, key)
1 {(x1, f1), . . . ,(xrf , frf )}← ﬁngers (u, 0)
(sorted so key≼x1≼···≼xrf≺ key)
2 j← rf
3 repeat (f, i)← CHOOSE -F INGER (u, xj, key)
4 value← QUERY (f, i, key)
5 j← j− 1
6 until QUERY found valid value, or hit retry limit
7 return value
CHOOSE -F INGER (u, x0, key)
1 for i← 0 to ℓ− 1
2 do Fi←{ (x, f)∈ ﬁngers (u, i)| x0≼x≼key}
3 i← RANDOM -C HOICE ({i∈{ 0, . . . , ℓ−1}| Fi non-empty})
4 (x, f)← RANDOM -C HOICE (Fi)
5 return (f, i)
QUERY (u, i, key)
1 if (key, value)∈ succ(u, i) for some value
2 then return value
3 else error “not found”
Figure 5: LOOKUP procedure to retrieve a record by key.
In order to process requests quickly, each node should
sort its ﬁnger tables by ID and its successor tables by key.
6.2 Lookup
The basic goal of the L OOKUP procedure is to ﬁnd
a ﬁnger node which is honest and which has the target
record in its successor table. The S ETUP procedure en-
sures that any honest ﬁnger f which is “close enough” to
the target key y will have y ∈ succ(f ). Since every ﬁn-
ger table contains many random honest nodes, each node
is likely to have an honest ﬁnger which is “close enough”
(if rf is big enough). However, if the adversary clus-
ters IDs near the target key, then L OOKUP might have
to waste many queries to Sybil ﬁngers before ﬁnding this
honest ﬁnger. L OOKUP ’s pseudocode (Figure 5) chooses
ﬁngers carefully to foil this category of attack.
To prevent the adversary from focusing its attack on
a single node’s ﬁnger table, L OOKUP tries ﬁrst using its
own ﬁnger table, and, if that fails, repeatedly chooses a
random delegate and retries the search from there.
The T RY subroutine searches the ﬁnger table for the
closest layer-zero ID x0 to the target key key. It then
chooses a random layer i to try, and a random ﬁnger f
whose ID in that layer lies between x0 and the target key.
TRY then queries f for the target key.
If there is no clustering attack, then the layer-zero ID
x0 is likely to be an honest ID; if there is a clustering
attack, that can only make x0 become closer to the target
key. Therefore, in either case, any honest ﬁnger found
between x0 and key will be close enough to have the
target record in its successor table.
Only one question remains: how likely is C HOOSE -
FINGER to pick an honest ﬁnger versus a Sybil ﬁnger?
Recall from Section 5.3 that, during S ETUP , if the ad-
versary clustered its IDs in the range [x0, key] in layer i,
then the honest nodes tended to cluster in the same range
in layer i + 1. Thus, the adversary’s ﬁngers cannot dom-
inate the range in the majority of layers. Now, the layer
chosen by C HOOSE -F INGER is random — so, probably
not dominated by the adversary — and therefore, a ﬁnger
chosen from that layer is likely to be honest.
In conclusion, for most honest nodes’ ﬁnger tables,
CHOOSE -F INGER has a good probability of returning an
honest ﬁnger which is close enough to have the target key
in its successor table. Therefore, L OOKUP should almost
always succeed after only a few calls to T RY.
7 Analysis of Wh ¯anau’s performance
For the same reason as a ﬂooding protocol, Wh¯ anau’s
LOOKUP will always eventually succeed if it runs for
long enough: some random walk (L OOKUP , line 3) will
ﬁnd the target node. However, the point of Wh¯ anau’s
added complexity is to improve lookup performance be-
yond a ﬂooding algorithm. This section sketches the rea-
soning why L OOKUP uses O(1) messages to ﬁnd any tar-
get key, leaving out most proofs; more detailed proofs
can be found in an accompanying technical report [ 15].
To the deﬁnitions in Section 4, we will add a few more
in order to set up our analysis.
Deﬁnition (good sample probability). Let p be the prob-
ability that a random walk starting from a winner node
returns a good sample (a random honest node). p de-
creases with the number of attack edges g. Speciﬁcally,
we have previously shown that p ≥ 1
2
(
1 − gw
ǫn
)
for any
ǫ [15]. We are interested in the case where g < ǫn
2w =
O
( n
w
)
. In this case, we have that p > 1/4, so a substan-
tial fraction of random walks return good samples.
Deﬁnition (“the database”). Let D be the disjoint union
of all the honest nodes’ db tables:
D
def
=
⨄
honest u
db(u)
Intuitively, we expect honest nodes’ records to be heavily
represented in D. D has exactly rdm elements; we expect
at least (1 − ǫ)prdm of those to be from honest nodes.
NSDI 2010 8

Deﬁnition (distance metric dxy). Recall from Sec-
tion 5.3 that Wh¯ anau has no a priori notion of distance
between two keys. However, with the deﬁnition of D, we
can construct an a posteriori distance metric.
Let Dxy
def
= {z ∈ D | x ≼ z ≺ y} be all the records
(honest and Sybil) in D on the arc [ x, y). Then deﬁne
dxy
def
= |Dxy|
|D| = |Dxy|
rdm ∈ [ 0, 1)
Note that dxy is not used (or indeed, observable) by the
protocol; we use it only in the analysis.
7.1 Winner successor tables are correct
Recall that S ETUP (Figure 4) uses the S UCCESSORS sub-
routine, which calls S UCCESSORS -S AMPLE rs times, to
ﬁnd all the honest records in D immediately following
an ID x. Consider an arbitrary successor key y ∈ D . If
the rd and rs are sufﬁciently large, and dxy is sufﬁciently
small, then y will almost certainly be returned by some
call to S UCCESSORS -S AMPLE . Thus, any winner node
u’s table succ(u, i) will ultimately contain all records y
close enough to the ID x = ids(u, i).
Lemma. Call SUCCESSORS -S AMPLE (x) rs times. W e
then have (for rd, d−1
xy ≫ 1 and rs ≪ n) a Prob[fail] of:
Prob[y /∈ succ(u, i)] /apprle
[
1 − (1 − ǫ)p
1 + km
prd
e−rddxy
]rs
Under the simplifying assumption rd < d −1
xy ≪ km:
Prob[y /∈ succ(u, i)] /apprlee−e(1−ǫ)p2 rs rd
km (1)
We can intuitively interpret this result as follows: to
get a complete successor table with high probability,
we need rsrd = Ω( km log km). This is related to the
Coupon Collector’s Problem: the S UCCESSORS subrou-
tine examines rsrd random elements from D, and it must
examine the entire set of km honest records.
7.2 Layer zero IDs are evenly distributed
Consider an arbitrary winner u’s layer-zero ﬁnger table
F0 = ﬁngers (u, 0): approximately prf of the nodes in
F0 will be random honest nodes. Picking a random hon-
est node f ∈ F 0 and then picking a random key from
db(f ) is the same as picking a random key from D. Thus,
prf of the IDs in F0 are random keys from D. For any
keys x, y ∈ D , the probability that a random honest ﬁn-
ger’s layer-zero ID falls in the range[ x, y) is simply dxy.
Lemma. With rf ﬁngers, we have a Prob[fail] of:
Prob[ no layer-0 ﬁnger in [ x, y) ] /apprle(1 − dxy)prf (2)
W e expect to ﬁnd approximately prf dxy of these honest
ﬁngers with IDs in the range [ x, y).
We can intuitively interpret this result as follows: to
see Ω(1) ﬁngers in [ x, y) with high probability, we need
rf = Ω(log m/dxy). In other words, large ﬁnger tables
enable nodes to ﬁnd a layer-0 ﬁnger in any small range of
keys. Thus layer-0 ﬁnger tables tend to cover D evenly.
7.3 Layers are immune to clustering
The adversary may attack the ﬁnger tables by clustering
its IDs. C HOOSE -ID line 4 causes honest nodes to re-
spond by clustering their IDs on the same keys.
Pick any keys x, y ∈ D sufﬁciently far apart that we
expect at least one layer-zero ﬁnger ID in [ x, y) with
high probability (as explained above). Let βi (“bad ﬁn-
gers”) be the average (over winners nodes’ ﬁnger tables)
of the number of Sybil ﬁngers with layer- i IDs in [ x, y).
Likewise, let γi (“good ﬁngers”) be the average number
of winner ﬁngers in [ x, y). Deﬁne µ
def
= (1 − ǫ)p.
Lemma. The number of good ﬁngers in [x, y) is propor-
tional to the total number of ﬁngers in the previous layer:
γi+1 /apprgeµ (γi + βi)
Corollary. Let the density ρ i of winner ﬁngers in layer i
be ρi
def
= γi/(γi + βi). Then ∏ ℓ−1
i=0 ρi /apprgeµ ℓ−1/(1 − µ )rf .
Because the density of winner ﬁngers ρi is bounded
below, this result means that the adversary’s scope to af-
fect ρi is limited. The adversary may strategically choose
any values of βi between zero and (1 − µ )rf . However,
the adversary’s strategy is limited by the fact that if it
halves the density of good nodes in one layer, the density
of good nodes in another layer will necessarily double.
Theorem. The average layer’s density of winner ﬁngers
is at least ¯ρ
def
= 1
ℓ
∑ ℓ−1
i=0 ρi /apprgeµ
e [(1 − µ )µr f ]− 1
ℓ .
Observe that as ℓ → 1, the average layer’s density of
good ﬁngers shrinks exponentially to O(1/rf ), and that
as ℓ → ∞ , the density of good ﬁngers asymptotically
approaches the limit µ/e . We can get ¯ρ within a factor of
e of this ideal bound by setting the number of layers ℓ to
ℓ = log [(1 − µ )µr f ] (3)
For most values of µ ∈ [0, 1], ℓ ≈ log rf . However, when
µ approaches 1 (no attack) or 0 (strong attack), ℓ → 1.
7.4 Main result: lookup is fast
The preceding sections’ tools enable us to prove that
Wh¯ anau uses a constant number of messages per lookup.
Theorem (Main theorem). Deﬁne κ = kme/(1 − ǫ)p3.
Suppose that we pick rs, rf , rd, and ℓ so that (3) and (4)
are satisﬁed, and run SETUP to build routing tables.
rsrf > rsrd
p > κ (4)
Now run LOOKUP on any valid key y. Then, a single
iteration of TRY succeeds with probability better than
Prob[ success ] > 1
20 (1 − ǫ)p = Ω(1) .
NSDI 2010 9

The value κ is the aggregate storage capacity km of
the DHT times an overhead factor e/(1−ǫ)p3 which rep-
resents the extra work required to protect against Sybil
attacks. When g < ǫn
2w , this overhead factor is O(1).
The formula ( 4) may be interpreted to mean that
both rsrd and rsrf must be Ω( κ): the ﬁrst so that
SUCCESSORS -S AMPLE is called enough times to collect
every successor, and the second so that successor lists are
longer than the distance between ﬁngers. These would
both need to be true even with no adversary.
Proof sketch. Let x ∈ D be a key whose distance to the
target key y is dxy = 1 /prf , the average distance be-
tween honest ﬁngers.
First, substitute the chosen dxy into (2). By the lemma,
the probability that there is an honest ﬁnger xh ∈ [ x, y)
is at least 1 − 1/e. T RY line 1 ﬁnds xrf , the closest
layer-zero ﬁnger to the target key, and T RY passes it to
CHOOSE -F INGER as x0. x0 may be an honest ﬁnger or a
Sybil ﬁnger, but in either case, it must be at least as close
to the target key as xh. Thus, x0 ∈ [ x, y) with probabil-
ity at least 1 − 1/e.
Second, recall that C HOOSE -F INGER ﬁrst chooses a
random layer, and then a random ﬁnger f from that layer
with ID xf ∈ [ x0, y ]. The probability of choosing any
given layer i is ℓ−1, and the probability of getting an hon-
est ﬁnger from the range is ρi from Section 7.3. Thus, the
total probability that C HOOSE -F INGER returns an hon-
est ﬁnger is simply the average layer’s density of good
nodes 1
ℓ
∑ ρi = ¯ρ. Since we assumed ( 3) was satisﬁed,
Section 7.3 showed that the probability of success is at
least ¯ρ /apprge(1 − ǫ)p/e2.
Finally, if the chosen ﬁnger f is honest, the only ques-
tion remaining is whether the target key is in f ’s suc-
cessor table. Substituting dxf y < d xy and ( 4) into ( 1)
yields Prob[ y ∈ succ(f ) ] /apprge1 − 1/e. Therefore, when
QUERY (f, y) checks f ’s successor table, it succeeds
with probability at least 1 − 1/e.
A T RY iteration will succeed if three conditions hold:
(1) xf ∈ [ x, y); (2) C HOOSE -F INGER returns a winning
ﬁnger f ; (3) y ∈ succ(f ). Combining the probabilities
calculated above for each of these events yields the total
success probability
(
1−1
e
) (1−ǫ)p
e2
(
1−1
e
)
> 1
20 (1−ǫ)p.
Corollary. The expected number of queries sent by
LOOKUP is bounded by 20
(1−ǫ)p = O(1). With high prob-
ability, the maximum number of queries is O(log n).
7.5 Routing tables are small
Each (virtual) node has S = rd + ℓ(rf + rs) table entries
in total. To minimize S subject to ( 4), set rs = rf = √κ
and rd = p√κ. Therefore, the optimal total table size is
S ≈ √κ log κ, so S = O(
√
km log km), as expected.
As the number of attack edges g increases, the required
table size grows as (1−ǫ)−1/2p−3/2. A good approxima-
tion for this security overhead factor is 1 + 2
√ gw
n + 6 gw
n
when g < n
6w . Thus, overhead grows linearly with g.
As one might expect for a one-hop DHT, the optimum
ﬁnger tables and the successor tables are the same size.
The logarithmic factor in the total table size comes from
the need to maintain O(log km) layers to protect against
clustering attacks. If the number of attack edges is small,
(3) indicates that multiple layers are unnecessary. This is
consistent with the experimental data in Section 9.3.
8 Implementation
We have implemented Wh¯ anau in a simulator and on
PlanetLab. To simulate very large networks — some of
the social graphs we use have millions of nodes — we
wrote our own simulator. Existing peer-to-peer simula-
tors don’t scale to such a large number of nodes, and our
simulator uses many Wh¯ anau-speciﬁc optimizations to
reduce memory consumption and running time. The sim-
ulator directly implements the protocol as described in
Figures 4 and 5, takes a static social network as input,
and provides knobs to experiment with Wh¯ anau’s dif-
ferent parameters. The simulator does not simulate real-
world network latencies and bandwidths, but only counts
the number of messages that Wh¯ anau sends. The primary
purpose of the simulator is to validate the correctness and
scaling properties of Wh¯ anau with large social networks.
We also implemented Wh¯ anau and the IM applica-
tion in Python on PlanetLab. This implementation runs
a message-passing protocol to compute S ETUP and uses
RPC to implement L OOKUP . When a user starts a node,
the user provides the keys and current IP addresses that
identify their social neighbor nodes. The IM client stores
its current IP address into the DHT. When a user wants
to send an IM to another user, the IM client looks up the
target user’s contact information in the DHT and authen-
ticates the returned record using the key. If the record
is authentic, the IM application sends the IM to the IP
address in the record. Wh¯ anau periodically rebuilds its
tables to incorporate nodes which join and leave.
The average latency for a lookup is usually one round-
trip on PlanetLab. Using locality-aware routing, Wh¯ anau
could achieve lower than one network round-trip on av-
erage, but we haven’t implemented this feature yet.
Our PlanetLab experiments were limited by the num-
ber of PlanetLab nodes available and their resources: we
were able to run up to 4000 Wh¯ anau nodes simultane-
ously. Unfortunately, at scales smaller than this, Wh¯ anau
nearly reduces to simple broadcast. Given this practical
limitation, it was difﬁcult to produce insightful scaling
results on PlanetLab. Furthermore, although results were
broadly consistent at small scales, we could not cross-
validate the simulator at larger scales. The PlanetLab ex-
periments primarily demonstrated that Wh¯ anau works on
a real network with churn, varying delays, and so on.
NSDI 2010 10

n=#nodes m=#edges avg. degree
Flickr 1,624,992 15,476,835 9.52
LiveJournal 5,189,809 48,688,097 9.38
Y ouTube 1,134,890 2,987,624 2.63
DBLP 511,163 1,871,070 3.66
Table 2: Properties of the input data sets.
9 Results
This section experimentally veriﬁes several hypotheses:
(1) real-world social networks exhibit the properties that
Wh¯ anau relies upon; (2) Wh¯ anau can handle clustering
attacks (tested by measuring its performance versus ta-
ble size and the number of attack edges); (3) layered IDs
are essential for handling clustering attacks; (4) Wh¯ anau
achieves the same scalability as insecure one-hop DHTs;
and (5) Wh¯ anau can handle node churn in Planetlab.
Our Sybil attack model permits the adversary to cre-
ate an unlimited number of pseudonyms. Since previous
DHTs cannot tolerate this attack at all, this section does
not compare Wh¯ anau’s Sybil-resistance against previous
DHTs. However, in the non-adversarial case, the exper-
iments do show that Wh¯ anau scales like any other inse-
cure one-hop DHT, so (ignoring constant factors such as
cryptographic overhead) adding security is “free”. Also,
similarly to other (non-locality-aware) one-hop DHTs,
the lookup latency is one network round-trip.
9.1 Real-world social nets ﬁt assumptions
Nodes in the Wh¯ anau protocol bootstrap from a social
network to build their routing tables. It is important
for Wh¯ anau that the social network is fast mixing: that
is, a short random walk starting from any node should
quickly approach the stationary distribution, so that ther e
is roughly an equal probability of ending up at any edge
(virtual node). We test if this fast-mixing property holds
for social network graphs, extracted from Flickr, Live-
Journal, Y ouTube, and DBLP , which have also been used
in other studies [ 18, 26]. These networks correspond to
real-world users and their social connections. The Live-
Journal graph was estimated to cover 95.4% of the users
in Dec 2006, and the Flickr graph 26.9% in Jan 2007.
We preprocessed the input graphs by discarding un-
connected nodes and transforming directed edges into
undirected edges. (The majority of links were already
symmetric.) The resulting graphs’ basic properties are
shown in Table 2. The node degrees follow power law
distributions, with coefﬁcients between 1.6 and 2 [ 18].
To test the fast-mixing property, we sample the distri-
bution of random walks as follows. We pick a random
starting edge i, and for each ending edge j, compute the
probability pij that a walk of length w ends at j. Com-
puting pij for all m possible starting edges i is too time-
intensive, so we sampled 100 random starting edges i and
computed pij for all m end edges j. For a fast-mixing
0 0.25 0.5 0.75 1 1.25 1.5 1.75 2
Walk probability pij (normalized to 1
m )
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8DBLP
10 steps
20 steps
40 steps
80 steps
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8YouTube
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8LiveJournal
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Flickr
Figure 6: Mixing properties of social graphs. Each line shows
a CDF of the probability that a w-step random walk ends on a
particular edge. The X axis is normalized so that the mean is 1 .
network, we expect the probability of ending up at a par-
ticular edge to approach 1/m as w increases to O(log n).
Figure 6 plots the CDF of pij for increasing values of
w. To compare the different social graphs we normalize
the CDFs so that they have the same mean. Thus, for all
graphs, pij = 1/m corresponds to the ideal line at 1. As
expected, as the number of steps increases to 80, each
CDF approaches the ideal uniform distribution.
The CDFs at w = 10 are far from the ideal distribu-
tion, but there are two reasons to prefer smaller values
of w. First, the amount of bandwidth consumed scales as
w. Second, larger values of w increase the chance that
a random walk will return a Sybil node. Section 9.2 will
show that Wh¯ anau works well even when the distribution
of random walks is not perfect.
Recall from Section 4.2 that when a fast-mixing social
network has a sparse cut between the honest nodes and
Sybil nodes, random walks are a powerful tool to pro-
tect against Sybil attacks. To conﬁrm that this approach
works with real-world social networks, we measured the
probability that a random walk escapes the honest region
of the Flickr network with different numbers of attack
edges. To generate an instance with g attack edges, we
marked random nodes as Sybils until there were at least
g edges between marked nodes and non-marked nodes,
and then removed any honest nodes which were con-
nected only to Sybil nodes. For example, for the Flickr
graph, in the instance with g = 1 , 940, 689, there are
n = 1 , 442, 120 honest nodes (with m = 13 , 385, 439
honest edges) and 182,872 Sybil nodes. Since increasing
NSDI 2010 11

0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
Walk length
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Escape probability
g =1.346n =2M
g =0.121n =200K
g =0.012n =20K
Figure 7: Escape probability on the Flickr network.
the number of attack edges this way actually consumes
honest nodes, it is not possible to test the protocol against
g/n ratios substantially greater than 1.
Figure 7 plots the probability that a random walk start-
ing from a random honest node will cross an attack edge.
As expected, this escape probability increases with the
number of steps and with the number of attack edges.
When the number of attack edges is greater than the num-
ber of honest nodes, the adversary has convinced essen-
tially all of the system’s users to form links to its Sybil
identities. In this case, long walks almost surely escape
from the honest region; however, short walks still have
substantial probability of reaching an honest node. For
example, if the adversary controls 2 million attack edges
on the Flickr network, then each user has an average of
1.35 links to the adversary, and random walks of length
40 are 90% Sybils. On the other hand, random walks of
length 10 will return 60% honest nodes, although those
honest nodes will be less uniformly distributed than a
longer random walk.
9.2 Performance under clustering attack
To evaluate Wh¯ anau’s resistance against the Sybil attack,
we ran instances of the protocol using a range of ta-
ble sizes, number of layers, and adversary strengths. For
each instance, we chose random honest starting nodes
and measured the number of messages used by L OOKUP
to ﬁnd randomly chosen target keys. Our analysis pre-
dicted that the number of messages would be O(1) as
long as g ≪ n/w. Since we used a ﬁxed w = 10 , the
number of messages should be small when the number
of attack edges is less than 10% of the number of hon-
est nodes. We also expected that increasing the table size
would reduce the number of messages.
Our simulated adversary employs a clustering attack
on the honest nodes’ ﬁnger tables, choosing all of its IDs
to immediately precede the target key. In a real-world de-
ployment of Wh¯ anau, it is only possible for an adversary
to target a small fraction of honest keys in this way: to in-
crease the number of Sybil IDs near a particular key, the
adversary must move some Sybil IDs away from other
keys. However, in our simulator, we allowed the adver-
sary to change its IDs between every L OOKUP operation:
that is, it can start over from scratch and adapt its attack
to the chosen target key. Our results therefore show Wh¯ a-
100 1K 10K 100K 1M
Table size (entries/link)
0
10
20
30
40
50Median lookup messages  .
g =1.346n
g =0.121n
g =0.012n
Figure 8: Number of messages used by L OOKUP decreases as
table size increases (Flickr social network).
nau’s worst case performance, and not the average case
performance for random target keys.
Figure 8 plots the number of messages required by
LOOKUP versus table size. Since our policy is that re-
sources scale with node degree (Section 3.3), we mea-
sure table size in number of entries per social link. Each
table entry contains a key and a node’s address (ﬁnger
tables) or a key-value pair (successor and db tables).
As expected, the number of messages decreases with
table size and increases with the adversary’s power. For
example, on the Flickr network and with a table size of
10,000 entries per link, the median L OOKUP required 2
messages when the number of attack edges is 20,000, but
required 20 messages when there are 2,000,000 attack
edges. The minimum resource budget for fast lookups is
1, 000 ≈ √n: below this table size, L OOKUP messages
increased rapidly even without any attack. Under a mas-
sive attack ( g > n ) L OOKUP could still route quickly,
but it required a larger resource budget of /apprge10, 000.
Figure 9 shows the full data set of which Figure 8 is a
slice. Figure 9(a) shows the number of messages required
for 100% of our test lookups to succeed. Of course, most
lookups succeeded with far fewer messages than this up-
per bound. Figure 9(b) shows the number of messages re-
quired for 50% of lookups to succeed. The contour lines
for maximum messages are necessarily noisier than for
median messages, because the lines can easily be shifted
by the random outcome of a single trial. The median is a
better guideline to Wh¯ anau’s expected performance: for
a table size of 5,000 on the Flickr graph, most lookups
will succeed within 1 or 2 messages, but a few outliers
may require 50 to 100 messages.
We normalized the X-axis of each plot by the number
of honest nodes in each network so that the results from
different datasets could be compared directly. Our the-
oretical analysis predicted that Wh¯ anau’s performance
would drop sharply (L OOKUP messages would grow ex-
ponentially) when g > n/ 10. However, we observed
that, for all datasets, this transition occurs in the higher
range m/10 < g < m . In other words, the analytic pre-
diction was a bit too pessimistic: Wh¯ anau functions well
until a substantial fraction of all edges are attack edges.
When the number of attack edges g was below n/10,
we observed that performance was more a function of ta-
NSDI 2010 12

10-5 10-4 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10
100
1K
10K
100K
1M
Flickr (n=1.6M)
  g =m/10   g =m
#messages = 50
#messages = 20
#messages = 10
#messages = 5
10-5 10-4 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10
100
1K
10K
100K
1M
LiveJournal (n=5.2M)
  g =m/10   g =m
10-5 10-4 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10
100
1K
10K
100K
1M
YouTube (n=1.1M)
  g =m/10   g =m
10-5 10-4 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10
g/n = (# attack edges) / (# honest nodes)
100
1K
10K
100K
1M
DBLP (n=510K)
  g =m/10   g =m
Table size (entries per link)
(a) Maximum messages required for every lookup to succeed.
10-5 10-4 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10
100
1K
10K
100K
1M
Flickr (n=1.6M)
  g =m/10   g =m
#messages = 50
#messages = 20
#messages = 5
#messages = 2
10-5 10-4 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10
100
1K
10K
100K
1M
LiveJournal (n=5.2M)
  g =m/10   g =m
10-5 10-4 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10
100
1K
10K
100K
1M
YouTube (n=1.1M)
  g =m/10   g =m
10-5 10-4 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10
g/n = (# attack edges) / (# honest nodes)
100
1K
10K
100K
1M
DBLP (n=510K)
  g =m/10   g =m
Table size (entries per link)
(b) Median messages required for lookups to succeed.
Figure 9: Heat map and contours of the number of messages used by L OOKUP , versus attacker strength and table size. In the light
regions at upper left, where there are few attack edges and a l arge resource budget, L OOKUP succeeded using only one message. In
the dark regions at lower right, where there are many attack e dges and a small resource budget, L OOKUP needed more than the retry
limit of 120 messages. Wedges indicate where g = m/w and g = m; when g≫ m/w, L OOKUP performance degrades rapidly.
The plots’ right edges do not line up because it was not always possible to create an adversary instance with g = 10n.
ble size, which must always be at least Ω( √m) for Wh¯ a-
nau to function, than of g. Thus, Wh¯ anau’s performance
is insensitive to relatively small numbers of attack edges.
9.3 Layers vs. clustering attacks
Section 9.2 showed that Wh¯ anau handles clustering at-
tacks. For the plots in Figure 9, we simulated sev-
eral different numbers of layers and chose the best-
performing value for a given table size. This section eval-
uates whether layers are important for Wh¯ anau’s attack
resistance, and investigates how the number of layers
should be chosen.
Are layers important? We ran the same experiment as
in Section 9.2, but we held the total table size at a con-
stant 100,000 entries per link. We varied whether the pro-
tocol spent those resources on more layers, or on bigger
per-layer routing tables, and measured the median num-
ber of messages required by L OOKUP .
We would expect that for small-scale attacks, one layer
is best, because layers come at the cost of smaller per-
layer tables. For more large-scale attacks, more layers is
better, because layers protect against clustering attacks .
Even for large-scale attacks, adding more layers yields
quickly diminishing returns, and so we only simulated
numbers of layers between 1 and 10.
The solid lines in Figure 10 shows the results for
the clustering attack described in Section 9.2. When the
number of attack edges is small, the best performance
would be achieved by spending all resources on bigger
routing tables, mostly avoiding layers. For Flickr, layers
become important when the number of attack edges ex-
ceeds 5,000 (0.3% of n); for g > 20, 000, a constant
NSDI 2010 13

1
4
7
10Flickr
Clustering
No clustering
1
4
7
10LiveJournal
1
4
7
10YouTube
10-5 10-4 0.001 0.01 0.1 1
g/n = (# attack edges) / (# honest nodes)
1
4
7
10DBLP
Optimal number of layers
Figure 10: Optimal layers versus attacker power. The resource
budget was ﬁxed at 100K table entries per link.
number of layers (around 8) would yield the best perfor-
mance. At high attack ratios (around g/n /apprge1), the data
becomes noisy because performance degrades regardless
of the choice of layers.
The dashed lines in Figure 10 show the same simu-
lation, but pitted against a na¨ ıve attack: the adversary
swallows all random walks and returns bogus replies to
all requests, but does not cluster its IDs. This control
data clearly shows that multiple layers are only help-
ful against a clustering attack. The trends are clearer for
the larger graphs (Flickr and LiveJournal) than for the
smaller graphs (Y ouTube and DBLP). 100,000 table en-
tries is very large in comparison to the smaller graphs’
sizes, and therefore the differences in performance be-
tween small numbers of layers are not as substantial.
How many layers should nodes use? The above data
showed that layers improve Wh¯ anau’s resistance against
powerful attacks but are not helpful when the DHT is
not under attack. However, we cannot presume that nodes
know the number of attack edges g, so the number of lay-
ers must be chosen in some other way. Since layers cost
resources, we would expect the optimal number of layers
to depend on the node’s resource budget. If the number
of table entries is large compared to √m, then increas-
ing the number of layers is the best way to protect against
powerful adversaries. On the other hand, if the number of
table entries is relatively small, then no number of layers
will protect against a powerful attack; thus, nodes should
use a smaller number of layers to reduce overhead.
We tested this hypothesis by re-analyzing the data col-
lected for Section 9.2. For a given table size, we com-
puted the number of layers that yielded optimal perfor-
mance over a range of attack strengths. The results are
shown in Figure 11. The overall trend is clear: at small
table sizes, fewer layers is preferred, and at large table
sizes, more layers is better.
1
4
7
10Flickr
1
4
7
10LiveJournal
1
4
7
10YouTube
1K 10K 100K 1M
Table size (entries/link)
1
4
7
10DBLP
Optimal number of layers
Figure 11: Optimal layers versus resource budget. Each point
is a table size / attacker power instance. Larger points corr e-
spond to multiple instances. The trend line passes through t he
median point for each table size.
The optimal number of layers is thus a function of
the social network size and the resource budget, and we
presume that honest nodes know both of these values at
least approximately. Since Wh¯ anau’s performance is not
very sensitive to small changes in the number of layers, a
rough estimate is sufﬁcient to get good performance over
a wide range of situations.
9.4 Wh ¯anau’s scalability
Wh¯ anau is designed as a one-hop DHT. We collected
simulated data to conﬁrm that Wh¯ anau’s performance
scales asymptotically the same as an insecure one-hop
DHT such as Kelips [ 11]. Since we don’t have access
to a wide range of social network datasets of different
sizes, we generated synthetic social networks with vary-
ing numbers of nodes using the standard technique of
preferential attachment [ 1], yielding power-law degree
distributions with exponents close to 2. For each net-
work, we simulated Wh¯ anau’s performance for various
table sizes and layers, as in the preceding sections. Since
our goal was to demonstrate that Wh¯ anau reduces to a
standard one-hop DHT in the non-adversarial case, we
did not simulate any adversary.
Figure 12 plots the median number of L OOKUP mes-
sages versus table size and social network size. For a one-
hop DHT, we expect that, holding the number of mes-
sages to a constant O(1), the required table size scales
as O(√m): the blue line shows this predicted trend.
The heat map and its contours (black lines) show sim-
ulated results for our synthetic networks. For example,
for m = 10, 000, 000, the majority of lookups succeeded
using 1 or 2 messages for a table size of ≈ 2, 000 entries
per link. The square and triangle markers plot our four
real-world datasets alongside the synthetic networks for
comparison. While each real network has idiosyncratic
NSDI 2010 14

10K 100K 1M 10M 100M
Social network size (m = #edges)
100
1K
10KTable size (entries/link)
Predicted trend: 
 
m
#messages = 20
#messages = 2
Figure 12: Number of messages used by L OOKUP , versus sys-
tem size and table size. The heat map and contour lines show
data from synthetic networks, while the markers show that real-
world social networks fall roughly onto the same contours.
Wh¯ anau scales like a one-hop DHT.
features of its own, it is clear that the table sizes follow
the O(√m) scaling trend we expect of a one-hop DHT.
9.5 PlanetLab and node churn
Wh¯ anau’s example IM application runs on PlanetLab.
We performed an experiment in which we started 4000
virtual nodes, running on 400 PlanetLab nodes. This
number of virtual nodes is large enough that, with a rout-
ing table size of 200 entries per social link, most requests
cannot be served from local tables. Each node continu-
ously performed lookups on randomly-chosen keys.
We simulated node churn by inducing node failure and
recovery events according to a Poisson process. These
events occurred at an average rate of two per second, but
we varied the average node downtime. At any given time,
approximately 10% or 20% of the virtual nodes were off-
line. (In addition to simulating 10% and 20% failures, we
simulated an instance without churn as a control.) We
expected lookup latency to increase over time as some
ﬁnger nodes became unavailable and some lookups re-
quired multiple retries. We also expected latency to go
down whenever SETUP was re-run, building new routing
tables to reﬂect the current state of the network.
Figure 13 plots the lookup latency and retries for these
experiments, and shows that Wh¯ anau is largely insensi-
tive to modest node churn. The median latency is approx-
imately a single network roundtrip within PlanetLab, and
increases gradually as churn increases. As expected, the
fraction of requests needing to be retried increased with
time when node churn was present, but running S ETUP
restored it to the baseline.
While this experiment’s scale is too small to test Wh¯ a-
nau’s asymptotic behavior, it demonstrates two points:
(1) Wh¯ anau functions on PlanetLab, and (2) Wh¯ anau’s
simple approach for maintaining routing tables is sufﬁ-
cient to handle reasonable levels of churn.
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400
Time (seconds)
100
150
200
250
300Median latency (ms)
20% churn
10% churn
No churn
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400
Time (seconds)
0
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%Percent queries retried
Figure 13: Lookup latency and fraction of lookups which re-
quired retries on PlanetLab under various levels of node chu rn.
V ertical lines indicate when S ETUP installed new routing ta-
bles. Under churn, the retry frequency slowly increases unt il
SETUP runs again, at which point it reverts to the baseline.
10 Discussion
This section discusses some engineering details and sug-
gests some improvements that we plan to explore in fu-
ture work.
Systolic mixing process. Most of Wh¯ anau’s band-
width is used to explore random walks. Therefore, it
makes sense to optimize this part of the protocol. Using
a recursive or iterative RPC to compute a random walk,
as suggested by Figure 4, is not very efﬁcient: it uses w
messages per random node returned.
A better approach, implemented in our PlanetLab ex-
periment, is to batch-compute r walks at once. Suppose
that every node maintains a pool of r addresses of other
nodes; the pools start out containing r copies of the
node’s own address. At each time step, each node ran-
domly shufﬂes its pool and divides it equally amongst its
social neighbors. For the next time step, the node com-
bines the messages it received from each of its neighbors
to create a new pool, and repeats. After w such mixing
steps, each node’s pool is a randomly shufﬂed assortment
of addresses. If r is sufﬁciently large, this process ap-
proximates sending out r random walks from each node.
V ery many or very few keys per node. The protocol
described in this paper handles 1 ≲ k ≲ m well, where
k is the number of keys per honest node. The extreme
cases outside this range will require tweaks to Wh¯ anau
to handle them. Consider the case k > m . Any DHT
requires at least k = Ω( m) resources per node just to
transmit and store the keys. This makes the task easier,
since we could use O(m) bandwidth to collect a nearly-
complete list of all other honest nodes on each honest
node. With such a list, the task of distributing successor
records is a simple variation of consistent hashing [ 13].
NSDI 2010 15

The analysis in Section 7.1 breaks down for k > m :
more than m calls to S UCCESSORS -S AMPLE will tend
to have many repeats, and thus can’t be treated as inde-
pendent trials. To recover this property, we can treat each
node as k/m virtual nodes, as we did with node degrees.
Now consider the other extreme: k < 1, i.e. only some
nodes are storing key-value records in the system. The
extreme limiting case is only a single honest node stor-
ing a key-value record into the system, i.e. k = 1 /m.
Wh¯ anau can be modiﬁed to handle the case k < 1 by
adopting the systolic mixing process described above and
omitting empty random walks. This reduces to ﬂooding
in the extreme case, and smoothly adapts to larger k.
Handling key churn. It is clear that more bandwidth
usage can be traded off against responsiveness to churn:
for example, running S ETUP twice as often will result in
half the latency from key insertion to key visibility. Using
the observation that the DHT capacity scales with the ta-
ble size squared, we can improve this bandwidth-latency
tradeoff. Consider running S ETUP every T seconds with
R resources, yielding a capacity of K = O(R2) keys.
Compare with this alternative: run S ETUP every T /2
seconds using R/2 resources, and save the last four in-
stances of the routing tables. Each instance will have ca-
pacity K/4, but since we saved four instances, the total
capacity remains the same. The total resource usage per
unit time also remains the same, but the responsiveness
to churn doubles, since S ETUP runs twice as often.
This scaling trick might seem to be getting “some-
thing for nothing”. Indeed, there is a price: the number of
lookup messages required will increase with the number
of saved instances. However, we believe it may be pos-
sible to extend Wh¯ anau so that multiple instances can be
combined into a single larger routing table, saving both
storage space and lookup time.
11 Summary
This paper presents the ﬁrst efﬁcient DHT routing pro-
tocol which is secure against powerful denial-of-service
attacks from an adversary able to create unlimited
pseudonyms. Wh¯ anau combines previous ideas — ran-
dom walks on fast-mixing social networks — with the
idea of layered identiﬁers. We have proved that lookups
complete in constant time, and that the size of routing
tables is only O(
√
km log km) entries per node for an
aggregate system capacity of km keys. Simulations of
an aggressive clustering attack, using social networks
from Flickr, LiveJournal, Y ouTube, and DBLP , show that
when the number of attack edges is less than 10% of the
number of honest nodes and the routing table size is √m,
most lookups succeed in only a few messages. Thus, the
Wh¯ anau protocol performs similarly to insecure one-hop
DHTs, but is strongly resistant to Sybil attacks.
Acknowledgements. Many thanks to Alan Mislove for
providing invaluable social network datasets. We are
grateful to the anonymous reviewers and to our shepherd,
Timothy Roscoe, for their many helpful comments. This
research was supported by the T-Party Project (a joint re-
search program between MIT and Quanta Computer Inc.,
Taiwan) and by the NSF FIND program.
References
[1] A.-L. Barab´ asi and R. Albert. Emergence of Scaling in Ra ndom Networks.
Science, 286(5439), 1999.
[2] A. Bavier, M. Bowman, B. Chun, D. Culler, S. Karlin, S. Mui r, L. Peterson,
T. Roscoe, T. Spalink, and M. Wawrzoniak. Operating Systems Support for
Planetary-Scale Network Services. NSDI, San Francisco, CA, Mar. 2004.
[3] N. Borisov. Computational Puzzles as Sybil Defenses. Peer-to-Peer Com-
puting, Cambridge, UK, Sept. 2006.
[4] M. Castro, P . Druschel, A. J. Ganesh, A. I. T. Rowstron, an d D. S. Wal-
lach. Secure Routing for Structured Peer-to-Peer Overlay N etworks. OSDI,
Boston, MA, Dec. 2002.
[5] A. Cheng and E. Friedman. Sybilproof Reputation Mechani sms. Workshop
on the Economics of Peer-to-Peer Systems, Philadelphia, PA, Aug. 2005.
[6] F. Chung. Spectral Graph Theory. American Mathematical Society, 1997.
[7] G. Danezis and P . Mittal. SybilInfer: Detecting Sybil No des Using Social
Networks. NDSS, San Diego, CA, Feb. 2009.
[8] G. Danezis, C. Lesniewski-Laas, M. F. Kaashoek, and R. J. Anderson.
Sybil-Resistant DHT Routing. ESORICS, 2005.
[9] J. R. Douceur. The Sybil Attack. IPTPS, Cambridge, MA, Mar. 2002.
[10] A. Gupta, B. Liskov, and R. Rodrigues. Efﬁcient Routing for Peer-to-Peer
Overlays. NSDI, San Francisco, CA, Mar. 2004.
[11] I. Gupta, K. P . Birman, P . Linga, A. J. Demers, and R. van R enesse. Kelips:
Building an Efﬁcient and Stable P2P DHT through Increased Me mory and
Background Overhead. IPTPS, Berkeley, CA, Feb. 2003.
[12] N. J. A. Harvey, M. B. Jones, S. Saroiu, M. Theimer, and A. Wolman.
SkipNet: A Scalable Overlay Network with Practical Localit y Properties.
USITS, Seattle, W A, Mar. 2003.
[13] D. R. Karger, E. Lehman, F. T. Leighton, R. Panigrahy, M. S. Levine, and
D. Lewin. Consistent Hashing and Random Trees: Distributed Caching
Protocols for Relieving Hot Spots on the World Wide Web. STOC, El Paso,
TX, May 1997.
[14] C. Lesniewski-Laas. A Sybil-Proof One-Hop DHT. Workshop on Social
Network Systems, Glasgow, Scotland, April 2008.
[15] C. Lesniewski-Laas and M. F. Kaashoek. Whanaungatanga : Sybil-Proof
Routing with Social Networks. MIT, Technical Report MIT-CS AIL-TR-
2009-045, Sept. 2009.
[16] B.N. Levine, C. Shields, and N.B. Margolin. A Survey of S olutions to the
Sybil Attack. University of Massachusetts Amherst, Amhers t, MA, 2006.
[17] S. Marti, P . Ganesan, and H. Garcia-Molina. DHT Routing Using Social
Links. IPTPS, La Jolla, CA, Feb. 2004.
[18] A. Mislove, M. Marcon, P . K. Gummadi, P . Druschel, and B. Bhattacharjee.
Measurement and Analysis of Online Social Networks. IMC, San Diego,
CA, Oct. 2007.
[19] B. C. Popescu, B. Crispo, and A. S. Tanenbaum. Safe and Pr ivate Data
Sharing with Turtle: Friends Team-Up and Beat the System. Security Pro-
tocols Workshop, Cambridge, UK, Apr. 2004.
[20] R. Rodrigues and B. Liskov. Rosebud: A Scalable Byzanti ne-Fault-Tolerant
Storage Architecture. MIT CSAIL, Technical Report TR/932, Dec. 2003.
[21] H. Rowaihy, W. Enck, P . McDaniel, and T. L. Porta. Limiti ng Sybil Attacks
in Structured P2P Networks. INFOCOM, Anchorage, AK, May 2007.
[22] A. Singh, T.-W. Ngan, P . Druschel, and D. S. Wallach. Ecl ipse Attacks on
Overlay Networks: Threats and Defenses. INFOCOM, Barcelona, Spain,
Apr. 2006.
[23] E. Sit and R. Morris. Security Considerations for Peer- to-Peer Distributed
Hash Tables. IPTPS, Cambridge, MA, Mar. 2002.
[24] I. Stoica, R. Morris, D. Liben-Nowell, D. R. Karger, M. F . Kaashoek, F.
Dabek, and H. Balakrishnan. Chord: A Scalable Peer-to-Peer Lookup Pro-
tocol for Internet Applications. ToN, 11(1), 2003.
[25] D. N. Tran, B. Min, J. Li, and L. Subramanian. Sybil-Resi lient Online
Content Rating. NSDI, Boston, MA, Apr. 2009.
[26] H. Y u, P . B. Gibbons, M. Kaminsky, and F. Xiao. A Near-Opt imal Social
Network Defense Against Sybil Attacks. IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy, Oakland, CA, May 2008.
[27] H. Y u, M. Kaminsky, P . B. Gibbons, and A. Flaxman. SybilG uard: Defend-
ing Against Sybil Attacks Via Social Networks. SIGCOMM, Pisa, Italy,
Sept. 2006.
[28] H. Y u, C. Shi, M. Kaminsky, P . B. Gibbons, and F. Xiao. DSy bil: Opti-
mal Sybil-Resistance for Recommendation Systems. IEEE Symposium on
Security and Privacy, Oakland, CA, May 2009.
NSDI 2010 16