Measuring Decentralization in Bitcoin and
Ethereum using Multiple Metrics and Granularities
Qinwei Lin∗, Chao Li∗†, Xifeng Zhao∗ and Xianhai Chen∗
∗School of Computer and Information Technology, Beijing Jiaotong University, China
†Beijing Key Laboratory of Security and Privacy in Intelligent Transportation, Beijing Jiaotong University, China
Abstract—Decentralization has been widely acknowledged as
a core virtue of blockchains. However, in the past, there have
been few measurement studies on measuring and comparing
the actual level of decentralization between existing blockchains
using multiple metrics and granularities. This paper presents
a new comparison study of the degree of decentralization in
Bitcoin and Ethereum, the two most prominent blockchains,
with various decentralization metrics and different granularities
within the time dimension. Speciﬁcally, we measure the degree
of decentralization in the two blockchains during 2019 by
computing the distribution of mining power with three metrics
(Gini coefﬁcient, Shannon entropy, and Nakamoto coefﬁcient)
as well as three granularities (days, weeks, and months). Our
measurement results with different metrics and granularities
reveal the same trend that, compared with each other, the
degree of decentralization in Bitcoin is higher, while the degree
of decentralization in Ethereum is more stable. To obtain
the cross-interval information missed in the ﬁxed window
based measurements, we propose the sliding window based
measurement approach. The corresponding results demonstrate
that the use of sliding windows could reveal additional
cross-interval information overlooked by the ﬁxed window based
measurements, thus enhancing the effectiveness of measuring
decentralization in terms of continuous trends and abnormal
situations. We believe that the methodologies and ﬁndings in
this paper can facilitate future studies of decentralization in
blockchains.
Index Terms—Blockchain, Decentralization, Bitcoin, Ethereum
I. I NTRODUCTION
Recent advances in blockchain technologies are driving the
rise of decentralized platforms and applications in various
areas such as big data [7], [15], healthcare [21] and Internet
of Things [14]. Public blockchains such as Bitcoin [13] and
Ethereum [2] are ledgers of transactions performed by nodes
in blockchain networks in a decentralized manner. For most
of the public blockchains, the degree of decentralization of
resources that decide who generates blocks is the key metric
for evaluating the blockchain decentralization [5], [9], [10],
[20]. This in turn facilitates further understanding of both
security and scalability in a blockchain [8].
Intuitively, the case that a few parties possess the majority
of the overall resources indicates a more centralized control of
blockchain, which is potentially less secure. This is due to the
fact that the collusion among these few parties can be powerful
enough to perform denial-of-service attacks against targeted
blockchain users and even falsify historical data recorded
in blockchain. More concretely, in a Proof-of-Work (PoW)
blockchain such as Bitcoin [13], a miner possessing higher
mining power has a better chance of generating the next block.
In Bitcoin, a transaction is considered to be ‘conﬁrmed’ after
six blocks as it is estimated that the probability of creating a
longer fork after six blocks to defeat the one containing the
‘conﬁrmed’ transaction is negligible. However, the assumption
is not held when a few miners possess over half of overall
mining power in the network, in which case these miners are
able to launch the commonly known 51% attack to control the
blockchain and double-spend any amount of cryptocurrency.
Through selﬁsh mining [4], the difﬁculty of performing 51%
attack could be further reduced to the demand of possessing
33% of overall mining power, indicating even weaker security
in less decentralized blockchains.
Some research works in the last few years pointed out
that Bitcoin and Ethereum are showing a trend towards
centralization [1], [5], [18]. The main reason is that, for the
purpose of reducing the variance of income, the majority of
miners have joined large mining pools and a small set of
mining pools are now actually controlling the blockchains.
Motivated by this observation, recent works have started
measuring and evaluating the degree of decentralization in
Bitcoin and/or Ethereum in a quantitative manner [5], [9],
[11], [20]. However, most of the existing measurement studies
were collecting blocks generated in a single week and
then computing the degree of decentralization based on the
distribution of block producers within the selected week.
Hence, their results could only reveal a snapshot state of the
degree of decentralization, rather than its continuous shifts.
Besides, some of these studies performed measurements using
a single metric as well as a single granularity, making the
results lack comprehensiveness.
This paper presents a new comparison study of the degree
of decentralization in Bitcoin and Ethereum, the two most
prominent blockchains. Compared with existing works, our
research makes the following key contributions:
• Our measurement study is based on the data of blocks
generated throughout the year 2019, thus enabling the
quantitative evaluation of the long-term pattern and
continuous changes of the degree of decentralization.
• Our measurements adopt various decentralization metrics
and different granularities within the time dimension,
thus making the results more comprehensive. Speciﬁcally,
we compute the degree of decentralization with three
measurement metrics (Gini coefﬁcient [9], Shannon
arXiv:2101.10699v2  [cs.CR]  2 Feb 2021

entropy [20], and Nakamoto coefﬁcient [16]) as well as three
measurement granularities (days, weeks and months). Our
measurement results with different metrics and granularities
reveal the same trend that, compared with each other, the
level of decentralization in Bitcoin is higher, while the level
of decentralization in Ethereum is more stable.
• Initially, we measure the degree of decentralization using
ﬁxed windows, namely windows of ﬁxed interval duration
with no overlaps between two consecutive windows.
However, our further analysis indicates that, when we
compute the degree of decentralization per interval duration
(e.g. per week) with ﬁxed windows, we may overlook the
cross-interval (e.g. cross-week) changes, which may even
lead to the unawareness of special or abnormal values of
the degree of decentralization. However, a naive solution
of reducing the time interval may make the measurements
quite sensitive to occasional elements (e.g., a miner with
10% of overall mining power mined 10% of overall blocks
within a week but 30% of overall blocks within a certain day
of that week). To overcome these challenges, we propose
the sliding window based measurement approach to capture
the cross-interval changes of the degree of decentralization.
Our measurement results demonstrate that the use of sliding
windows could reveal additional cross-interval information
overlooked by the ﬁxed window based measurements, thus
enhancing the effectiveness of measuring decentralization in
terms of continuous trends and abnormal situations.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: In Section 2,
we present our ways of collecting data, introduce the
adopted measurement metrics, and show the preliminary
results measured with ﬁxed windows. Then, in Section 3, we
introduce the sliding window based measurement approach
and compare the corresponding measurement results with the
ones measured with ﬁxed windows. Finally, we discuss the
related work in Section 4 and conclude in Section 5.
II. D ATA COLLECTION AND PRELIMINARY MEASUREMENT
In this section, we describe our data collection methodology
and introduce the adopted measurement metrics. We then
present the preliminary results of the degree of decentralization
in Bitcoin and Ethereum measured with ﬁxed windows.
A. Data collection
We leverage Google BigQuery [17] to collect blockchain
data. Google BigQuery is a web service platform that offers
an Interactive Application Programming Interface(API) for
developers and researchers to collect and parse various types
of data, including eight mainstream Proof-of-Work (PoW)
blockchain data. From block 556,459 to block 610,690, we
collected 54,231 Bitcoin blocks produced in 2019. Similarly,
we collected 2,204,650 Ethereum blocks produced in 2019
from block 6,988,615 to block 9,193,265.
B. Measurement metrics
In this paper, we quantify and compare the degree of
decentralization in Bitcoin and Ethereum with three different
measurement metrics, namely Gini coefﬁcient [9], Shannon
entropy [20], and Nakamoto coefﬁcient [16]. Next, we will
introduce the three measurement metrics respectively.
1) Gini coefﬁcient: The Gini coefﬁcient is often used
as a gauge of economic inequality, measuring wealth
distribution among a population. In the scenario of measuring
decentralization in blockchains, the Gini coefﬁcient could be
used to indicate the inequality of the distribution of mining
power among miners [9]. Therefore, we adopt Gini coefﬁcient
as the ﬁrst measurement metric, which could be computed by:
G =
∑
Ai,Aj∈A|N BAi− N BAj|
2|A| ∑
N BAj∈N B N BAj
(1)
where N BAi refers to the number of blocks generated by
each block producer Ai and N B ={N BAi|Ai ∈ A} and
A denote the corresponding sets. If the deviation of N B is
small, the Gini value will be close to 0. Otherwise, the value
will be close to 1. Intuitively, a lower Gini coefﬁcient means
that more miners need to collude to compromise a blockchain
system, thus indicating a higher degree of decentralization.
2) Shannon Entropy: In 1948, Shannon pointed out that
information has redundancy, and the amount of redundancy
depends on the distribution of probabilities, or uncertainty,
within the information, which could be quantiﬁed by the
notion of Shannon entropy [20]. We adopt the Shannon
entropy as the second measurement metric to measure the
degree of randomness and disorder of the distribution of the
amount of blocked mined by miners via:
pi = bi
− ∑n
i=1 bi
(2)
E =−
n∑
i=1
pilog2pi (3)
where bi denotes the number of blocks generated by miners
and n denotes the range of miners that entropy is computed
for. Intuitively, a higher Shannon entropy means a higher
degree of randomness of the distribution of mining power,
thus indicating a higher degree of decentralization.
3) Nakamoto coefﬁcient: The aforementioned two metrics
are a bit abstract and the degree of decentralization quantiﬁed
via them is not directly associated with the security in
blockchains. Therefore, we adopt the Nakamoto coefﬁcient
as the third measurement metric in this paper. Nakamoto
coefﬁcient is deﬁned as the minimum number of entities
required to collude for gathering over 51% of the overall
mining power to compromise a blockchain system [16], which
could be computed via:
N = min{k∈ [1,··· , K] :
k∑
i=1
pi≥ 0.51} (4)
Intuitively, a higher Nakamoto coefﬁcient means more miners
(or mining pools) need to combine their mining power to reach
the 51% threshold to take over the blockchain. Compared
with the Gini coefﬁcient, the Nakamoto coefﬁcient is more

Fig. 1: Gini coefﬁcient measured in Bitcoin using ﬁxed
windows
intuitive for revealing the association between the degree of
decentralization and security in blockchains.
C. Preliminary Measurement
Next, we present the preliminary results of the degree
of decentralization in Bitcoin and Ethereum measured using
ﬁxed windows with lengths of a day, a week and a month,
respectively. Here, ﬁxed windows refer to windows of ﬁxed
interval duration. There will be no overlaps between two
consecutive ﬁxed widows. In other words, we show the daily,
weekly and monthly degree of decentralization in the two
blockchains.
1) Measurement results in Bitcoin:
a) Gini coefﬁcient: Fig. 1 presents the Gini coefﬁcient
measured in Bitcoin using ﬁxed windows. As can be seen
from the results, the monthly Gini coefﬁcients, with the highest
values close to 0.90 during the ﬁrst three months, are always
higher than the daily and weekly ones. The variation tendency
of the weekly Gini coefﬁcients is similar to that of the monthly
Gini coefﬁcients. Finally, the daily Gini coefﬁcients are much
lower than the monthly and weekly ones in general. Most of
the daily Gini coefﬁcients are within the range of 0.45 to 0.60,
while some extreme values could reach around 0.25 during the
ﬁrst three months.
b) Shannon entropy: Next, Fig. 2 presents the Shannon
entropy measured in Bitcoin using ﬁxed windows. From the
results, we can see that the overall patterns of the daily, weekly
and monthly Shannon entropy are quite close. We can also
observe that during the ﬁrst two months, the value of Shannon
entropy is higher, regardless of the selected measurement
granularity. Speciﬁcally, the daily Shannon entropy is within
the range of 3.5 to 4.0, while some extreme values could
become higher than 5.5.
c) Nakamoto coefﬁcient: Finally, Fig. 3 presents the
Nakamoto coefﬁcient measured in Bitcoin using ﬁxed
windows. The results show that from day 100 to day 260, the
Nakamoto coefﬁcients measured with all the three granularities
are relatively stable at 4. Outside this range, the Nakamoto
coefﬁcient mainly oscillates between 4 and 5, while the highest
values of daily Nakamoto coefﬁcient appeared during the ﬁrst
50 days could be higher than 35.
Fig. 2: Shannon entropy measured in Bitcoin using ﬁxed
windows
Fig. 3: Nakamoto coefﬁcient measured in Bitcoin using ﬁxed
windows
d) Summary: By observing the three ﬁgures together,
we could ﬁnd that the degree of decentralization measured
with all the three metrics tends to be higher and with more
ﬂuctuations during the ﬁrst 50 days while to be lower and more
stable during the rest of the year. To ﬁgure out the underlying
reason, we investigated the detailed block data. We take day
14, namely Jan. 14th in 2019, as an example. On day 14, the
daily Gini coefﬁcient is 0.34 and the daily Shannon entropy
is 6.2, both of which are extreme values. By investigating
the block data, we found two abnormal blocks. Speciﬁcally,
the no. 558,473 and no. 558,545 blocks contain more than 80
independent coinbase addresses and more than 90 independent
coinbase addresses, respectively, resulting in each of these two
blocks being associated with more than 80 blocks producers.
Because of this, day 14 has only 148 blocks created on that
day but is with an extremely large set of miners, resulting in a
very small daily Gini coefﬁcient as well as a very large daily
Shannon entropy.
2) Measurement results in Ethereum:
a) Gini coefﬁcient: Fig. 4 presents the Gini coefﬁcient
measured in Ethereum using ﬁxed windows. We could observe
the same trends as revealed in the measurement results in
Bitcoin. That is, the monthly Gini coefﬁcients are always
higher than the daily and weekly ones and the daily Gini
coefﬁcients are much lower than the monthly and weekly ones
in general. Besides, compared with those in Bitcoin, the Gini

Fig. 4: Gini coefﬁcient measured in Ethereum using ﬁxed
windows
Fig. 5: Shannon entropy measured in Ethereum using ﬁxed
windows
Fig. 6: Nakamoto coefﬁcient measured in Ethereum using
ﬁxed windows
coefﬁcients in Ethereum are higher and also more stable.
b) Shannon enrtopy: As shown in Fig. 5, the trends of
the Shannon entropy measured with different granularities are
roughly the same. More concretely, most of the values of
Shannon entropy are within the range of 3.3 to 3.5.
c) Nakamoto coefﬁcient: Next, Fig. 6 presents the
Nakamoto coefﬁcient measured in Ethereum using ﬁxed
windows. We could see that the Nakamoto coefﬁcients
measured with different granularities are quite stable, which
just ﬂuctuates between 2 and 3.
d) Summary: Overall, the degree of decentralization in
Ethereum measured with all the three metrics is very stable.
Fig. 7: The distribution of blocks produced in Bitcoin within
a day and a month
There is no abnormal value observed during the year.
3) Bitcoin versus Ethereum: To sum up, we found that
during the year 2019, our measurement results with different
metrics and granularities reveal the same trend that, compared
with each other, the level of decentralization in Bitcoin is
higher, while the level of decentralization in Ethereum is more
stable.
Besides, after comprehensively measuring the degree of
difference in Bitcoin and Ethereum with ﬁxed windows,
we could see that the change of measurement granularities
does not signiﬁcantly impact the overall trends of Shannon
entropy and Nakamoto coefﬁcient. However, the ranges of Gini
coefﬁcients measured with different granularities are quite
different. We would like to explain the underlying reason for
the phenomenon based on the formula of the Gini coefﬁcient,
namely Eq. 1. We could take the day 7th December 2019
and the corresponding month December 2019 as an example.
As shown in Fig. 2, the daily Shannon entropy measured on
the aforementioned day and the monthly Shannon entropy
measured in the aforementioned month are quite close. As
revealed by Fig.7, the changes of the ratio of blocks mined
by top miners in the two pie charts are not substantial.
However, a longer length of ﬁxed windows could take huge
numbers of miners who may create only a few blocks into the
computation. As a result, the population of top miners remains
the same while the population of bottom miners becomes
larger, resulting in a higher Gini coefﬁcient.
So far, our measurements are based on ﬁxed windows,
namely windows of ﬁxed interval duration. However, our
further analysis indicates that, when we compute the degree of
decentralization per interval duration (e.g. per week) with ﬁxed
windows, we may overlook cross-interval (e.g. cross-week)
changes, which may even lead to the unawareness of special
or abnormal values of the degree of decentralization. To
resolve the problem, in the next section, we propose the
sliding window based measurement approach to capture the
cross-interval changes of the degree of decentralization.
III. M EASUREMENT WITH SLIDING WINDOWS
In this section, we propose the sliding window based
measurement approach to replace the ﬁxed windows used in
the last section so that the results could be ﬁner-grained and

Fig. 8: Sliding window
the cross-interval changes could be captured. We ﬁrst present
our measuring methodology of using sliding windows and then
the corresponding results.
A. Sliding Window
As we have described in Section 2, the use of ﬁxed windows
may make the results overlook the cross-interval changes and
hence, miss important signals such as special or abnormal
values of the degree of decentralization. For instance, a
miner may dominantly produced most of blocks during four
consecutive days, which should have been considered as an
unusual sign. However, if the four consecutive days are the last
two days of the ﬁrst week and the ﬁrst two days of the second
week, the values of the two corresponding weekly degree of
decentralization may not be high enough to attract attention.
A naive solution for this problem is to reduce the length of
the ﬁxed windows to capture ﬁner-grained changes. However,
this naive solution may make the measurements quite sensitive
to occasional elements. As an example, it is possible that
a miner with 10% of overall mining power mined 10% of
overall blocks within a week but 30% of overall blocks within
a certain day of that week. Then, even though the amount
of blocked mined by this miner during the week exactly
matches the mining power owned by the miner, the degree
of decentralization measured with short ﬁxed windows may
ﬂuctuate sharply. To overcome these challenges, we propose
the sliding window based measurement approach to capture
the cross-interval changes of the degree of decentralization
without having to reduce the window size.
We now present the setting of sliding windows with more
details. First, based on the 10 minutes per block production
rate in Bitcoin, we could approximate the numbers of blocks
produced in Bitcoin per day, per week and per month,
respectively. Then, based on the results, we could set the
corresponding window sizes used in Bitcoin to be 144, 1008,
and 4320, respectively. Similarly, based on the fact that
Ethereum generates 6,000 blocks per day on average, we
could set the corresponding window sizes used in Ethereum
to be 6,000, 42,000 and 180,000, respectively. After that, by
denoting the length of a sliding window as N and the sliding
step length as M, we can obtain L measurement results when
the total number of measured blocks is S, as deﬁned below:
L = S− N
M + 1 (5)
In this paper, in order to simplify and clarify the main point
of the sliding window based measurement approach, we take
Fig. 9: Shannon entropy measured in Bitcoin using sliding
windows
Fig. 10: Shannon entropy measured in Ethereum using sliding
windows
the sliding step length M half of the size of the sliding
window N, so the number of times of computing the degree
of decentralization in 2019 could be doubled.
As shown in Fig. 8, when the window size is N, assuming
that the ﬁrst block within the ith window has block number
A, the block number of the last block within the ith window
would be A+N−1. Then, given the sliding step length M, the
ﬁrst and last blocks within the i + 1th window would have the
block numbers A+M and A+M+N-1, respectively. As a result,
we can see that the two consecutive windows share an amount
of N− M overlapping blocks, so the cross-interval changes
could be captured.
B. Measurement Result
Based on the aforementioned sliding window based
measurement approach, Fig. 9 shows the Shannon entropy
measured in Bitcoin with the window size changed from 144,
the number of blocks generated per day, to 1008, blocks
produced per month and ﬁnally to 4230, blocks created per
year. According to Eq. 5, with the window size close to the
number of blocks generated per day, we can get about 700
results using sliding windows instead of 365 results using ﬁxed
windows. That is, the number of results is almost doubled.
From the perspective of statistical results, we can see that
the average values of Shannon entropy obtained by sliding
windows and ﬁxed windows are quite close. Speciﬁcally, the

average values of Shannon entropy measured with one-day,
one-week and one-month long sliding windows are about
3.810, 4.002 and 4.091, respectively.
Compared with Fig. 2 that shows the Shannon entropy
measured with ﬁxed windows, most of the values of Shannon
entropy measured with one-day long sliding windows locate
in the range of 3.5 to 4.0. Also, we can see that the sliding
window based results reveal more extreme values (i.e., > 5.0)
than the ones revealed from the ﬁxed window based results.
Moreover, we notice that the abnormal changes of Shannon
entropy revealed in Fig. 2 have been magniﬁed in Fig. 9.
As for the results measured with one-week long sliding
windows, we can observe that during the range of N from 40
to 100, which approximately equals to the range of day from
20 to 50, the one-week long ﬁxed window based results only
show a continuous downward trend while the one-week long
sliding window based results can reveal more cross-interval
changes. Therefore, by replacing ﬁxed windows with sliding
windows, it would be easier for us to discover special or
abnormal changes of the degree of centralization in a more
timely manner.
Next, Fig. 10 presents the Shannon entropy measured in
Ethereum using sliding windows. By comparing the results
in Fig. 10 and Fig. 5, we can ﬁnd that the sliding window
based results are quite close to the ﬁxed window based ones.
More concretely, the degree of decentralization in Ethereum
measured with sliding windows also shows a stable trend, and
most of the measured results are between 3.3 and 3.5. From the
perspective of statistical results, the average values of Shannon
entropy measured with one-day, one-week and one-month
long sliding windows are about 3.420, 3.433 and 3.445,
respectively. Again, we can see that, compared with Bitcoin,
Ethereum tends to be more stable but less decentralized in
terms of the measurements of the Shannon entropy.
Following the same methodology, we now observe the
Gini coefﬁcient measured in Bitcoin and Ethereum using
sliding windows. The results are shown in Fig. 11 and
Fig. 12, respectively. For Bitcoin (Fig. 11), similar to the
trends revealed in Fig. 1, the measured values of the
Gini coefﬁcient are highly correlated with the measurement
granularities, meaning that larger granularities could result in
higher measured values. Speciﬁcally, the average values of
the Gini coefﬁcient measured with one-day, one-week and
one-month long sliding windows are about 0.523, 0.667 and
0.760, respectively. Also, similar to what we have observed
from the measurements of Shannon entropy, the use of sliding
windows could reveal additional cross-interval information
overlooked in the ﬁxed window based measurements, which
could better reﬂect the abnormality of the changes of degree
of decentralization. For Ethereum (Fig. 12), similar to the
trends revealed in Fig. 4, the measured values of the Gini
coefﬁcient are quite stable. The average values of the Gini
coefﬁcient measured with one-day, one-week and one-month
long sliding windows are about 0.837, 0.878 and 0.916,
respectively. Compared with Bitcoin, Ethereum tends to be
signiﬁcantly less decentralized in terms of the measurements
Fig. 11: Gini coefﬁcient measured in Bitcoin using sliding
windows
Fig. 12: Gini coefﬁcient measured in Ethereum using sliding
windows
of the Gini coefﬁcient, which might be affected by the huge
difference of the block production rates between Bitcoin and
Ethereum.
Finally, we observe the Nakamoto coefﬁcient measured in
Bitcoin and Ethereum using sliding windows. The results
are shown in Fig. 13 and Fig. 14, respectively. For Bitcoin
(Fig. 13), compared with the results in Fig. 3, most of the
measured values of the Nakamoto coefﬁcient are between 4
and 5. We can also see that some extreme values measured
with ﬁxed windows have been doubled in the results measured
with one-day long sliding windows. Moreover, at the moment
that N equals to 120 (i.e., day 60), we can ﬁnd that the
abnormal change of the Nakamoto coefﬁcient can be clearly
observed in the sliding window based results, but not in the
ﬁxed window based results, which proves that sliding window
based approach is able to discover changes missed by the ﬁxed
window based approach. For Ethereum (Fig. 14), we can see
that the majority of the measured values of the Nakamoto
coefﬁcient are between 2 and 3, indicating that the majority
of mining power in Ethereum is dominantly controlled by
a few entities. Similar to the conclusion revealed by other
metrics, compared with Bitcoin, Ethereum tends to be less
decentralized, as revealed by the results of the Nakamoto
coefﬁcient.
To sum up, by comparing the sliding window based
results with the ﬁxed window based results using different
metrics and granularities, we can conclude that the sliding
window based measurement approach can reveal additional
cross-interval information overlooked by the ﬁxed window

Fig. 13: Nakamoto coefﬁcient measured in Bitcoin using
sliding windows
Fig. 14: Nakamoto coefﬁcient measured in Ethereum using
sliding windows
based measurements, thus facilitating the observation of
special and abnormal changes of the degree of decentralization
in blockchains.
IV. RELATED WORK
Most of the recent works on decentralization in blockchain
have focused on Bitcoin [3], [4], [6], [12], [19]. These
works pointed out that Bitcoin shows a trend towards
centralization because of the emergence of mining pools.
In [4], authors proposed the selﬁsh mining, which reduces
the bar of performing 51% attack to possessing over 33%
of computational power in Bitcoin. Later, authors in [3]
analyzed the mining competitions among mining pools in
Bitcoin from the perspective of game theory and proposed
that a rational mining pool may get incentivized to launch
a block withholding attack to another mining pool. From
the perspective of mining pools, authors in [19] tracked
more than 1.56 million blocks (including about 257 million
historical transactions) and found that a few mining pools was
controlling and will keep controlling most of the computing
resources of the Bitcoin network. Through the research of a
small fraction of the network, authors in [12] found that the
nodes connected with the major mining pools occupy higher
mining capacity. Authors in [6] analyzed the centralization
of Bitcoin in Bitcoin Web Wallets, Protocol Maintenance,
BlockChain Forks, and proposed some possible ways to
enhance the decentralization.
Besides, recently, there have been a few studies on
comparing the degree of decentralization between Bitcoin and
Ethereum [5], [20]. Relying on a new measurement technology
that could be used to obtain the application layer information,
the work in [5] focused on the Falcon network and mature
Internet measurement technology application and found that
(1) Bitcoin has a higher capacity network than Ethereum,
but Bitcoin may have more clustered nodes in datacenters
and (2) Bitcoin and Ethereum have fairly centralized mining
processes that require future research to further decentralize
the consensus protocol. The work in [20] compared the
degree of decentralization of Bitcoin and Ethereum with
Shannon entropy and concluded that Bitcoin is usually more
decentralized than Ethereum. To the best of our knowledge,
our paper is the ﬁrst research work that quantiﬁes the degree of
decentralization in Bitcoin and Ethereum with multiple metrics
and granularities using both ﬁxed and sliding windows.
V. C ONCLUSION
In this paper, we present a new comparison study and
analysis of the degree of decentralization in the two most
prominent blockchain, Bitcoin and Ethereum, the two most
prominent blockchains, with various decentralization metrics
and different granularities within the time dimension. We
quantiﬁed the degree of decentralization in the two blockchains
during 2019 by computing the distribution of mining power
with three metrics (Gini coefﬁcient, Shannon entropy, and
Nakamoto coefﬁcient) as well as three granularities (days,
weeks, and months). Our measurement results reveal that,
compared with each other, the degree of decentralization in
Bitcoin is higher, while the degree of decentralization in
Ethereum is more stable. In our further analysis, we propose
the sliding window based measurement approach to capture
the cross-interval changes s of the degree of decentralization
missed in the ﬁxed window based measurements. Our
measurement results demonstrate that the use of sliding
windows could reveal additional cross-interval information
overlooked by the ﬁxed window based measurements, thus
enhancing the effectiveness of measuring decentralization in
terms of continuous trends and abnormal situations. We believe
that the methodologies and ﬁndings in this paper can facilitate
future studies of decentralization in blockchains.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The work in this paper is supported by Fundamental
Research Funds for the Central Universities (No. 2019RC038).
Chao Li (Email: li.chao@bjtu.edu.cn) is the corresponding
author of this paper.
REFERENCE
[1] Alireza Beikverdi and JooSeok Song. Trend of centralization in
bitcoin’s distributed network. In 2015 IEEE/ACIS 16th SNPD ,
pages 1–6. IEEE, 2015.
[2] Vitalik Buterin et al. A next-generation smart contract and
decentralized application platform. white paper, 3:37, 2014.
[3] Ittay Eyal. The miner’s dilemma. In 2015 IEEE Symposium on
Security and Privacy , pages 89–103. IEEE, 2015.
[4] Ittay Eyal and Emin G ¨un Sirer. Majority is not enough: Bitcoin
mining is vulnerable. In International conference on ﬁnancial
cryptography and data security, pages 436–454. Springer, 2014.

[5] Adem Efe Gencer, Soumya Basu, Ittay Eyal, Robbert
Van Renesse, and Emin G ¨un Sirer. Decentralization in bitcoin
and ethereum networks. In International Conference on
Financial Cryptography and Data Security , pages 439–457.
Springer, 2018.
[6] A. Gervais, G. O. Karame, V . Capkun, and S. Capkun. Is bitcoin
a decentralized currency? IEEE Security Privacy , 12(3):54–60,
2014.
[7] Elena Karaﬁloski and Anastas Mishev. Blockchain solutions for
big data challenges: A literature review. IEEE EUROCON 2017
-17th International Conference on Smart Technologies , pages
763–768, 2017.
[8] Eleftherios Kokoris-Kogias et al. Omniledger: A secure,
scale-out, decentralized ledger via sharding. In 2018 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages 583–598. IEEE,
2018.
[9] Yujin Kwon, Jian Liu, Minjeong Kim, Dawn Song, and Yongdae
Kim. Impossibility of full decentralization in permissionless
blockchains. In Proceedings of the 1st ACM Conference on
Advances in Financial Technologies , pages 110–123, 2019.
[10] Chao Li and Balaji Palanisamy. Incentivized blockchain-based
social media platforms: A case study of steemit. In Proceedings
of the 10th ACM Conference on Web Science , pages 145–154,
2019.
[11] Chao Li and Balaji Palanisamy. Comparison of decentralization
in dpos and pow blockchains. In International Conference on
Blockchain, pages 18–32. Springer, 2020.
[12] A. Miller, James Litton, Andrew Pachulski, Neal Gupta,
D. Levin, N. Spring, and B. Bhattacharjee. Discovering bitcoin’s
public topology and inﬂuential nodes. 2015.
[13] Satoshi Nakamoto. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash
system. Technical report, Manubot, 2019.
[14] Gokhan Sagirlar, Barbara Carminati, Elena Ferrari, John D
Sheehan, and Emanuele Ragnoli. Hybrid-iot: Hybrid blockchain
architecture for internet of things-pow sub-blockchains. In 2018
IEEE International Conference on Internet of Things (iThings)
and IEEE Green Computing and Communications (GreenCom)
and IEEE Cyber, Physical and Social Computing (CPSCom) and
IEEE Smart Data (SmartData) , pages 1007–1016. IEEE, 2018.
[15] Tyler D Smith. The blockchain litmus test. In 2017
IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data) , pages
2299–2308. IEEE, 2017.
[16] Balaji S Srinivasan et al. Quantifying decentralization. https:
//news.earn.com/quantifying-decentalization-e39db233c28e,
[Accessed Nov. 2020], 2017.
[17] Jordan Tigani and Siddartha Naidu. Google BigQuery Analytics.
John Wiley & Sons, 2014.
[18] Florian Tschorsch and Bj ¨orn Scheuermann. Bitcoin and beyond:
A technical survey on decentralized digital currencies. IEEE
Communications Surveys & Tutorials , 18(3):2084–2123, 2016.
[19] Canhui Wang, Xiaowen Chu, and Qin Yang. Measurement and
analysis of the bitcoin networks: A view from mining pools.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1902.07549 , 2019.
[20] Keke Wu, Bo Peng, Hua Xie, and Zhen Huang. An information
entropy method to quantify the degrees of decentralization for
blockchain systems. In 2019 IEEE 9th International Conference
on Electronics Information and Emergency Communication
(ICEIEC), pages 1–6. IEEE, 2019.
[21] Xiao Yue, Huiju Wang, Dawei Jin, Mingqiang Li, and Wei
Jiang. Healthcare data gateways: found healthcare intelligence
on blockchain with novel privacy risk control. Journal of
medical systems, 40(10):218, 2016.