Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on
Mastodon
YUHAN LIU, Princeton University, USA
EMMY SONG, Princeton University, USA
OWEN XINGJIAN ZHANG, Princeton University, USA
JEWEL MERRIMAN, Princeton University, USA
LEI ZHANG, Princeton University, USA
ANDRÉS MONROY-HERNÁNDEZ, Princeton University, USA
As centralized social media platforms face growing concerns, more users are seeking greater control over
their social feeds and turning to decentralized alternatives such as Mastodon. The decentralized nature of
Mastodon creates unique opportunities for customizing feeds, yet user perceptions and curation strategies
on these platforms remain unknown. This paper presents findings from a two-part interview study with 21
Mastodon users, exploring how they perceive, interact with, and manage their current feeds, and how we
can better empower users to personalize their feeds on Mastodon. We use the qualitative findings of the first
part of the study to guide the creation of braids.social, a web-based prototype for feed curation. Results
from the second part of our study, using braids.social, highlighted opportunities and challenges for future
research, particularly in using seamful design to enhance people’s acceptance of algorithmic curation and
nuanced trade-offs between machine learning-based and rule-based curation algorithms. To optimize user
experience, we also discuss the tension between creating new apps and building add-ons in the decentralized
social media realm.
CCS Concepts: • Networks→ Social media networks; • Human-centered computing→ User interface
design; Empirical studies in interaction design ; Social recommendation.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Social Media, Mastodon, Fediverse, Algorithmic Feed
ACM Reference Format:
Yuhan Liu, Emmy Song, Owen Xingjian Zhang, Jewel Merriman, Lei Zhang, and Andrés Monroy-Hernández.
2018. Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on Mastodon. In Proceedings of Make sure to enter
the correct conference title from your rights confirmation email (CSCW). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 25 pages.
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
1 Introduction
Social feeds play a crucial role in shaping online discourse, influencing what information users
see, engage with, and believe [ 3, 17, 51]. Mainstream centralized social media platforms have
implemented sophisticated algorithmic curation in their social feeds to customize content to
individual interests and behaviors [67, 68]. In the past decade, HCI and CSCW researchers have
Authors’ Contact Information: Yuhan Liu, yl8744@princeton.edu, Princeton University, USA; Emmy Song, etsong@princeton.
edu, Princeton University, USA; Owen Xingjian Zhang, owenz@princeton.edu, Princeton University, USA; Jewel Merriman,
jm0278@princeton.edu, Princeton University, USA; Lei Zhang, raynez@princeton.edu, Princeton University, USA; Andrés
Monroy-Hernández, andresmh@princeton.edu, Princeton University, USA.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the
full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored.
Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
CSCW, Oct, 2025, Bergen, Norway
© 2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YY/MM
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.
arXiv:2504.18817v1  [cs.HC]  26 Apr 2025

2 Liu et al.
investigated social feed curation in mainstream centralized social media platforms from multiple
perspectives such as content moderation [31, 75], algorithm transparency [23, 24], and interface
design [22, 29, 39]. Recently, Mastodon emerged as a decentralized alternative to mainstream
centralized social media platforms, featuring chronological feeds without AI-driven curation [55].
It has attracted considerable attention and a growing user base following Twitter’s ownership and
policy changes in 2022 [10, 11, 69]. On the surface, Mastodon shares many similarities with Twitter,
such as short text posts and re-posts [43, 49, 64]. However, it operates fundamentally differently:
unlike Twitter’s centrally controlled infrastructure, Mastodon is a decentralized network of servers
independently administered by individuals or organizations that interoperate with one another
using the ActivityPub protocol [2], but lack “universal” moderation policies [50].
Social feeds on Mastodon are also different from centralized social media platforms because
they are partly sourced from the database of the user’s “home server” 1, which consists of posts
from users on the same server and posts from a mix of server it connects with, rather than one
centralized database. Moreover, the organization that develops the Mastodon open-source software
and operates the largest server is a non-profit that claims to prioritize user agency and preference
over corporate interests or ad revenue [54, 55]. They open-sourced the source code of web and
mobile client, together with the API. This opens up opportunities for developing user-centered
feed curation tools.
Therefore, based on the differences in the operational model and technical architecture between
decentralized social media like Mastodon and mainstream centralized social media platforms, we
highlight key opportunities for understanding and designing feed curation tools for Mastodon
users. First, the independence of each server results in varied content across the decentralized
network, which leads to information sharing and consumption expectations that differ from those
of mainstream centralized social media users. For instance, recent studies have revealed that the
main motivations for using Mastodon are social escapism and discussing identity-based topics
within a safe community [50, 81]. These varying expectations may influence user preferences in
feed curation, making it essential to first investigate users’ perceptions and interaction patterns
before developing design solutions. Secondly, Mastodon’s decentralized nature introduces a unique
user experience in curating social feeds, especially in configuring feeds from multiple data sources,
which necessitates exploration in different interface designs for prioritizing transparency and
user control and adaptability to the decentralized structure. In this project, we seek to answer the
following research questions:
• RQ1: How do people perceive, interact with and manage decentralized feeds in Mastodon?
• RQ2: What interface design facilitates explicit preference expression for feed curation in
Mastodon?
To answer these research questions, we conducted a two-part interview study with 21 participants.
In part one of the study, we asked participants how they perceive, interact with, and manage their
current feeds. Qualitative findings showed a common preference for chronologically ordered feeds,
but participants are open to certain algorithmic curation. We also noticed the under-utilization
of certain feeds due to the information overload. Based on the findings, we built braids.social,
a web-based feed curation tool that collapses all feeds into one semi-chronological and uses a
slider-based interface to collect user preferences. We then conducted the second part of the study,
during which participants were asked to configure their unified feed withbraids.social. Lastly, we
highlighted the design implications and insights we gained through the study for future research
in the decentralized social media realm.
In summary, we made the following contributions:
1The home server is the server where a user’s account is hosted
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on Mastodon 3
• We investigated users’ perception and interaction with decentralized feeds in Mastodon.
• We built braids.social, a web-based tool for feed curation on Mastodon that investigates
users’ preferences when interacting with feed curation tools.
2 Related Work
2.1 Decentralized Social Media and Mastodon
Decentralized social media has emerged as an alternative to growing concerns associated with
centralized platforms, gaining even more popularity after Elon Musk’s Twitter acquisition (later
renamed to X) [10, 61, 69]. Unlike centralized social media platforms, which are typically managed
by a corporation, decentralized social media represents a user-controlled ecosystem with distributed
information management [15]. They often employ standardized protocols for data exchange. For
example, Mastodon adopts the ActivityPub Protocol [52, 53] and Bluesky implements the ATProto-
col [72]. People often use the term “Fediverse” to describe the ensemble of social networks that
can communicate through decentralized protocols [13]. By the end of Feb 2025, “Fediverse” has
over 15 million users and 22 thousand servers [26]. Beyond differences in technical infrastructure,
decentralized social media often offer unique user experiences in data management, privacy control
and content moderation,distinguishing them further from their centralized counterparts [40].
Mastodon is one of the most well-known decentralized social media platforms. Like Twitter,
Mastodon functions as a microblogging platform where people can publish original posts and boost
other people’s posts [48, 83]. Thanks to the ActivityPub Protocol, when users post on Mastodon,
the content is not confined to their “home server” but is shared across any federated servers [48, 80].
A home server is the server where a user’s Mastodon account is hosted. During onboarding,
newcomers must select a server to create their account. To simplify this decision and reduce the
effort required to find a suitable server, Mastodon provides a curated list of recommended servers
on its official website [55]. Alternatively, users can manually search for servers. Mastodon has four
feeds: “home”, “local”, “federated”, and “explore”. The home feed is personalized, featuring content
from the accounts or hashtags the user follows. The three feeds other than the explore feed in
Mastodon are organized in chronological order, whereas the explore feed is sorted according to a
“trending score”. The composition of content in each of these feeds is as follows:
• Home: Activities from accounts the user follows, including posts, boosts, and replies, together
with posts that contain certain hashtags the user follows.
• Local: Public posts from all users hosted by the user’s home server.
• Federated: All public posts fetched by the server, including posts from accounts followed by
local users2 and the posts that local users have boosted, favorited, replied to and searched for.
• Explore: Trending posts in the federated feed ranked based on the “trending score”. The
“trending score” is calculated based on time and interaction (boosts and favorites) the post
received.
In a word, what a user sees in their home feed is based on the user’s subscription in the federated
network, while the other three feeds are the expansion of the user’s home feed but also depend on
the moderation and federation policy of the home server. In this paper, we contribute to the feed
curation mechanism of decentralized platforms by providing empirical insights on users’ perception
and interaction with Mastodon feeds, and by developing a new curation tool, i.e., braids.social,
that enables users to customize their feeds.
2“Local” user refers to all users hosted by the given server
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

4 Liu et al.
2.2 Feed Curation in Centralized social Media Platforms
As online social media has made sharing information easier, they have also contributed to informa-
tion overload [6, 7, 67, 68]. In the early days, platforms like Twitter and Facebook displayed content
chronologically, allowing users to view posts in real-time order. However, because of the massive
growth in user bases and content volume, millions of active users generate vast amounts of content
daily, overwhelming users with a continuous, unfiltered stream of posts [6, 7]. To mitigate this,
centralized social media platforms developed sophisticated algorithms to curate social feeds for
users [67, 68]. For example, Twitter, Instagram, and TikTok use AI-driven methods for selecting,
ranking, and recommending posts in users’ feeds based on interaction prediction [14, 57–59, 79].
The content recommendation algorithms have become a key feature of these platforms and are
credited with significantly increasing the platforms’ user base, reportedly attracting millions of
new users [4, 19, 74].
Here we summarized the main difference in feed curation between centralized social media
platforms and Mastodon:
(1) Data source: The ActivityPub protocol and the federated architecture of Mastodon allow
content to be distributed throughout the network when people subscribe to it [48, 80]. The
database of each server depends on the subscription of each user hosted by the server and the
server administrator’s federation choice3. Therefore, the data used to generate each user’s
feed is different.
(2) User expectation: Unlike centralized social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook,
Mastodon servers operate independently without a “universal” moderation policy. Server
administrators and moderators decide what is allowed on the server, which varies between
different servers, making it possible for Mastodon users to find a server aligned with the
content and values they seek. Also, prior research found that Mastodon users are interested
in joining smaller communities in seek of a safe environment for discussion or social es-
capism [50, 81]. The differences in user expectations may influence their curation needs.
(3) Goal of feed curation: Mainstream centralized social media platforms, funded by venture
capitalists, seek ultimate control over the platform to be much better positioned to monetize
the platforms via targeted advertising [54]. Thus in the development of feed curation algo-
rithms, they prioritize features that can maximize user retention such as the time spent on
the platform or the tendency to interact with the post [14, 57–59, 79]. Those features do not
consider users’ preferences. However, the non-profit nature of Mastodon grants user greater
agency in curating what they want to see in their feeds.
(4) Allowance of third-party development: Recently, centralized social media platforms
stopped opening their API to the public, which makes the development of third-party cu-
ration tools difficult [ 34, 37, 54, 71, 76]. However, the openness of Mastodon encourages
the development of third-party clients, giving options for end-users to have different user
experiences based on personal preference [28].
(5) Data-driven vs. rule-based curation tools: Prior work has focused on designing data-
driven solutions on centralized social media platforms to mitigate information overload and
enhance people’s network building [ 6, 7, 18, 36, 39]. Rule-based algorithms, even though
they provide more transparency, are neglected due to their limitations in dealing with large
amounts of data. However, the relatively smaller size of the database of each server in
Mastodon opened up new opportunities for developers.
3Server administrator can decide “de-federated” with specific server to stop data exchange
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on Mastodon 5
People’s feelings towards algorithmic curation in centralized social media platforms are mixed.
On one hand, people like the personalized experience and efficient information filtering that these
algorithms offer[5]. Despite the popularity of these algorithms, the resistance to algorithmic curation
has never stopped [4, 16]. Researchers have investigated the reasons behind the resistance and
attribute it to the violation of expectations, misunderstanding of the algorithms, lack of transparency
and agency, etc [16, 23, 24, 63]. Meanwhile, several strategies have been proposed to address these
issues; for instance, seamful design not only increases user awareness of algorithms but also
improves the quality of human-algorithm interactions and user agency in complex systems [23, 24].
In this paper, we extend the line of work by exploring the understudied areas about enhancing
transparency and user agency of curation tools on decentralized social media.
2.3 Existing Feed Curation Tools in Mastodon
In this section, we examined five popular Mastodon clients about their unique features (we compare
them with the native Mastodon app to define “unique”) that enable users to curate and customize
their feeds when browsing.
• Tusky is a Mastodon client for Android users that allows users “mute” a hashtag if they don’t
want to see about a certain topic. Tusky also offers a filter that can hide boosts [73].
• Elk is a web-based Mastodon client that reorders posts connected to each other to display them
in a connected thread in the feeds (in chronological feeds sometimes fragment discussions
by presenting posts solely in time-based order) [21].
• Ivory is a Mastodon client for iOS and Mac users. It will suppress duplicate boosted posts for
users [42].
• Ice Cube is a Mastodon client for iOS and Mac users. Besides one local feed, users can fetch
a specific remote server’s local feed without registering an account. Ice Cube also marked
where the user stopped and can resume the next time when the user logs in [41].
• Fedilab is a client for Mastodon and other platforms that integrate the ActivityPub protocol
such as Pleroma and Friendica. It supports multiple account management. Users can log in to
multiple accounts and switch between different feeds for those accounts simultaneously [27].
Feed curation in these existing Mastodon apps is either on an individual post level, like hiding
or suppressing specific posts, or on the feed level without manipulating content in the post, like
fetching the entire feed from remote servers. The exception is Elk, which re-orders posts to form
a connected thread based on replying time. However, Elk manages feeds in an automatic format
without users’ input. In this paper, we aim to explore how feed curation can occur across different
feeds and better integrate user preferences.
3 Method
3.1 Study Methodology
To investigate people’s perceptions and opinions regarding Mastodon feeds, their preferences
in managing their Mastodon feeds (RQ1) and what are their needs in curation tools (RQ2), we
conducted a two-part interview study with 21 Mastodon users.
Part 1: Understanding People’s Perception and Interaction with Mastodon Feeds. We
invited eleven participants (P1-P11) to have 60-minute interview sessions with us. We started by
asking participants about their most recent experiences using Mastodon, and their rationale for
picking their home server. Then, we invited them to share their screen as we asked them separate
questions for each Mastodon feed, including the frequency with which they check this feed, their
perceptions of the content, and their interaction patterns. We also asked participants to compare
their use of various Mastodon feeds.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

6 Liu et al.
Part 2: Exploring How to Enable Users to Explicitly Indicate Their Preference in
Mastodon Feed Curation. We designed and built braids.social based on our findings of the
first part of the study (details of design consideration and system implementation are presented
in the next section following the findings about RQ1) and had 30-minute interview sessions with
another ten participants (P12-P21). During the interview, we presented braids.social and asked
participants to complete the following tasks of feed customization so they could explore and learn
how to use the system:
• Task 1: See almost entirely trending posts.
• Task 2: See fewer posts from users and hashtags they follow relative to the local server.
• Task 3: See twice as many posts from the user @Mastodon on the mastodon.social server as
trending posts.
Afterward, we asked them to think aloud while configuring the feed based on their preferences,
followed by questions regarding how they felt about specific features of braids.social and how
they would like to change or improve it.
3.2 Participants
We recruited participants by posting on the home server of the leading author. Subsequently, the
recruitment post and its boosts were distributed across the Mastodon network. The recruiting
post consisted of a brief introduction to the study and a link for signing up. We conducted semi-
structured interviews with Mastodon users via Zoom. Participants’ basic information is provided
in the Appendix A. Our university’s Institutional Review Board approved this work. Additionally,
all participants provided consent to participate in the interviews, to the recording of their voices
and screens, and to having their conversations analyzed. Participants in part one and part two of
the study were completely distinct.
3.3 Data Analysis
For part one, we performed thematic analysis to gain deep insights into participants’ experiences.
Two researchers collaboratively created a 48-code codebook (see Appendix C) from the initial two
transcripts, aligning with our research questions and using thematic analysis methods [ 9]. We
validated each code category utilizing a subset of transcripts, categorizing based on similarities
in participant responses. Coders met regularly to ensure high inter-rater reliability (Cohen’s
kappa≥ 0.8) in the coding process. After coding was finished, the leading author iterated on
extracting themes from codes. For part two, one export coder performed thematic analysis to code
the transcripts and extract themes [9, 56]. The codebook consists of 40 codes and is provided in
Appendix D.
4 Findings: Understanding People’s Perception and Interaction with Mastodon Feeds.
4.1 Participants prefer chronological feeds but also identified scenarios where
algorithmic feeds might help
Mastodon distinguishes itself from other social media platforms because its feeds (except for the
explore feed) are ordered chronologically, often referred to as “not using an algorithm” by its
users. When participants talked about algorithmic feeds, they expressly referred to the machine
learning algorithms that rank posts based on maximization of user engagement or time spent on
the platform.
Most participants (8 out of 11) liked the chronological order of Mastodon’s feeds for the trans-
parency it grants. For example, P2 likes the chronological order as it is not manipulated and clearly
reveals what she missed while away: “I love that it’s chronological. I just want to see everyone I am
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on Mastodon 7
following and nothing more. When I was away for 12 hours, I could catch up on that 12 hours of
content without having to fiddle with it and be like, ‘Okay, where is all this stuff now?’ I just want to
see exactly what I missed. ”
Participants drew comparisons between Mastodon’s chronological feed order and the algorithmic
recommendation on mainstream social media like Twitter or Facebook, expressing a clear dislike
of that kind of algorithmic feed. We then learned that their reluctance was not to all algorithms.
Rather, they were critical of the aforementioned machine learning-based algorithms, which did
not meet their needs and made them feel powerless. For example, P11 indicated her frustration
with the algorithmic feeds on Twitter but noted that she found the algorithm on Bluesky, another
decentralized alternative, more satisfactory: “I love it (chronological order). It’s the best. I mean, it’s
one of the very best things about Mastodon. I hate the whole algorithm thing. [...] Bluesky doesn’t
irritate me as much as Twitter or others because at least you can, and they also give you the freedom
to create an algorithm. ”
Some participants stay neutral, weighing the pros and cons of both chronological and algorithmic
feed curation methods, like P1 and P8: “I miss that algorithmic mediation where it would still push
the most relevant stuff to the top and then keep this like irrelevant kind of stuff at the bottom. [...]
But then the chronological (order), works in a way that I don’t really miss out on stuff. [...] At least
on Mastodon, I know if you put something, it’s going to show up for me because of the chronological
timeline. Like, I’m not gonna lose it in the algorithmic ordering. So I see both pros and cons, ” (P1).“I
like that there’s no algorithm that trying to get me to see certain posts and make others harder to find.
The algorithm does have the advantage if I’ve been away for a long time, of helping me kind of sift
through, ”(P8).
P6 elaborated on his vision for what an ideal algorithmic curation would work from his perspec-
tive:“I understand that algorithmic timelines 4 are, you know, people don’t like that idea. [...] But if I
can design my own, or just teach my own algorithm, it’d be great. It doesn’t have to have anyone else’s
input. ... Every time I see his post, I can say, I want to see more of this, I want to see more of that to
make sure that the algorithm would say, ‘Okay, every time this person posts I’m going to make sure
it’s pinned at the top of his timeline and he sees it as the first thing he sees as soon as he comes back to
Mastodon. ”’
In summary, we found that while most participants clearly preferred chronologically ordered
feeds, they were not completely against algorithms. In fact, we learned that people find chronological
ordering most valuable when they check their feeds frequently, as it provides a timely overview
of activities during their absence. However, they identified some scenarios in which algorithm
intervention can be useful. For example, when they haven’t checked their feeds for longer, they
express a desire for algorithmic recommendations to highlight missed content tailored to their
interests. They disliked the machine learning algorithmic recommendations due to the lack of
agency and transparency.
4.2 Participants selectively interact with Mastodon feeds by choosing the home server
based on community and moderation policy
One of the most important things for Mastodon users is to choose a home server to host their
account. This decision determines what a user sees in their local and federated feeds. In our study,
we found a similar pattern that previous studies have argued: people on social media tend to gather
because of shared identity, culture, or interests [78]. For example, P9 joined her home server because
that’s a community for people of color, while P1 was drawn to join an academic-focused server:
4In Mastodon, users often use the term “timeline” to refer to feeds. We kept the word “timeline” in quotes and used the
feeds in other parts of the paper to be consistent with previous work in this field
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

8 Liu et al.
“When I hit Mastodon, I’m just like, ‘all of the black people come in. ’ We are like, ‘Are there black
people here?”’ (P9). Another motivation for participants to join their home server is to get more
information about their local communities. As P10 stated:“It seemed like a good sort of local/regional
instance. [...] There was a group of [the region where P10 lives] people who seemed to join up around
that same time as me. And that’s where some other people I knew landed. So seemed like a good fit. ”
However, some participants are concerned that prolonged engagement within a single community
holding similar viewpoints can lead to the formation of echo chambers, as P4 stated “I specifically
chose the larger one to see a cross-section of people because Mastodon is kind of echo-chambered in
a way that the same kinds of people I’m finding are like me in many ways. I didn’t want to be fully
echo-chambered into just a science silo or something like that. So it was a deliberate choice to go sort
of broader than more narrow. ” As a matter of fact, the communication mechanism of Mastodon
enables the user to connect with their preferred community no matter where their account is hosted.
Therefore, people do not feel the necessity of joining a specific server. Joining a general-purpose
server can expose them to other communities while keeping them in touch with their interested
ones. For instance, P6 initially joined a large general-purpose server during the onboarding process.
Even though tech-focused communities align more closely with his interests, he expressed no
intention to join: “I know there are other tech instances programmers use. [P6 listed several tech
instances] But I don’t know what that would necessarily get me because I just need to follow these
people. And I also don’t want to be completely isolated from other content. ”
Moreover, as stated before, Mastodon’s servers operate with their own rules and moderation
policies. The choice of home server not only determines the content appearing in their federated and
local feeds but also reflects the code of conduct they agree to follow. Among the eleven participants,
six highlighted their fondness for what they perceived as a friendly atmosphere in Mastodon, which
is largely attributed to users’ ability to select a server with moderation policies that resonate with
their values, as P3 stated: “Picking your home server is probably the single biggest stumbling block
people have to use Mastodon because there isn’t one big site to use. You have to pick one. And that
introduces friction. What I pick as my home should be one where I agree with the moderation rules.
The people seem generally chill looking at the ABOUT page before you join the server. ”
However, finding such a server may take time. Three of our participants (P2, P3, and P7) switched
their home servers to find moderation more in tune with their values. “I switched to this server
because I felt that [P2’s home server] was moderating, really, really well. ” (P2, who used to be on a
general-purpose server)
In sum, the home server on Mastodon significantly influences the content they encounter in their
local and federated feeds. The primary factor guiding users in choosing their home server is the
community they wish to engage with. These choices often revolve around identity, interests, and
geographical location. However, such a choice is not obligatory due to the inter-server connectivity
of Mastodon and the Fediverse more broadly. This allows users to communicate and interact with
people across different servers, thereby offering flexibility and diversity in their user experiences
on Mastodon. Another factor that drives people’s choice of home server is the moderation policy.
Participants tend to choose the home server whose moderation policy aligns with their values.
4.3 Participants’ interaction frequency of Mastodon feeds depends on their home
server size
Generally, participants reported visiting their home feed the most, followed closely by local and
then explore and federated feeds. This pattern is shaped by both the nature of the feeds and the
size of the servers.
Participants indicated that the content in the federated feed is often overly diverse and seldom
aligns with their interests. Moreover, the fast pace at which the content pops up contributes to
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on Mastodon 9
Fig. 1. Advanced Web Interface in the Official Mastodon Web App.
a sense of overwhelm, as P2 stated: “The federated timeline is so big and wide, which is great, but
I have enough things to see. I was like: ‘Please don’t get me more stuff. ” [As P2 was showing their
federated feed on her screen refreshing with new posts]. For some of the larger servers, even the
local feed can appear chaotic, making it challenging for P6 to find content that genuinely interests
him: “It’s really all about being able to find the stuff that I’m interested in, and the local and federated
timelines for me are just too overwhelming and too general, there’s too much content. ” To avoid this,
P8 joined a relatively small server: “(My home server) is a relatively small instance. It’s a good place
to just get to know a couple of people without being overwhelmed with the flow on local timeline. ”
Nonetheless, the federated feed is not always useless. About half of our participants (P1, P2, P3,
P7, P9) reported that when they are in search of intriguing posts or discovering new follows, they
deliberately visit the federated feed. This is particularly true for those new to Mastodon and who
have not yet fully built their home feed. The methods these participants use to curate their home
feed will be discussed in the following section.
4.4 Participants manage their home feed by applying filters for hashtags or accounts
The chronological order in Mastodon feeds ensures complete transparency in feed organization,
granting users full control over the content of their home feeds. In other words, only users’ follows
and subscriptions can appear in their home feed. This section delves into the strategies and methods
users employ to curate their home feeds.
P3, P4, and P11 mentioned using the advanced user interfaces in the native Mastodon web
app, which looks similar to TweetDeck [ 70]. This interface lets users view multiple feeds in
separate columns on their screens, as shown in Figure 1. By default, columns for the home feed
and notifications are displayed, but people can add columns to the layout.
In addition to following Mastodon accounts, participants indicated that they also follow a variety
of hashtags that align with their interests, such as #cats and #catsofmastodon. When a user follows
a hashtag, all public posts featuring that tag will appear in the user’s home feed, regardless of
whether or not they follow the account.
We learned that participants apply filters on their home feeds, extracting specific contents to
create new columns in the advanced user interface. For example, participants noted that they
aggregated selected hashtags and then pinned them to the advanced web interface as a new column.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

10 Liu et al.
Similarly, participants mentioned using Mastodon’s lists feature to create a subset of their followed
users. This feature allows users to add specific accounts to lists, creating a new feed exclusively
populated by activities from users within that list.
P6 shared with us that when he and the accounts he follows were in different time zones, posts
from them could easily be overlooked if he didn’t sift through all the posts accumulated during his
offline periods. To address this, he set up notifications for specific accounts he follows. This ensures
that he receives an alert whenever these specific accounts post, enabling him to stay updated even
if they are not online concurrently.
P9 uses a third-party service and could exclude all boosts from her personal page. P10 told us he
uses a third-party app that supports local-only posts. The local-only feature allows people to post
on the local server without spreading to the Fediverse. P10 sometimes uses the software to view
local-only posts because “it is local-oriented content or possibly even (related to) someone I know. ”
The two methods mentioned above, as well as adding hashtags to form a new feed and grouping
followed accounts into “lists”, all fundamentally revolve around applying filters on existing feeds.
These methods can be synthesized into rule-based algorithms, aligning with our earlier observation
that people are open to algorithmic feed curation.
4.5 Participants use multiple apps/tools at the same time because there is no one-fits-all
solution
The adoption of the decentralized protocol ensures multiple clients on the market that are compatible
with Mastodon besides the official app Mastodon developed [ 54]. It is noteworthy that users
presented a preference for third-party clients. Seven out of eleven participants said they like using
third-party clients (e.g., Elk, Fedilab). One of the advantages of ActivityPub-based social media
is that they don’t need to install different apps for each platform as they all implement the same
protocol and can communicate with each other. However, we learned that participants use multiple
apps and tools simultaneously instead of using one. Each client provides unique features that satisfy
participants’ needs and cannot be replaced.
P2, a participant with visual impairments, prefers using ‘Tweezecake’ due to its compatibility with
screen readers, as it does not necessitate keeping multiple windows open. However, ‘Tweezecake’
falls short in effectively managing hashtag following, prompting her to use ‘Mona, ’ a Mastodon
client for customized home feed organization. Despite this, ‘Mona’ lacks the feature to synchronize
settings across different devices, leading her to adopt ‘Tuskey’ for this specific function. While P2
is comfortable using separate clients for her computer and mobile phone, she finds the necessity of
using both ‘Mona’ and ‘Tusker’ on her cellphone cumbersome: “I’m happy to have two, one for my
computer, one for my phone. I just hate that I have to use 2 different apps on my phone to really get
what I need. It feels very clunky sometimes. ”
P2’s situation is not unique; participants P4, P9, and P10 also rely on multiple applications
for Mastodon. However, given the limited number of interviews we did, it remains inconclusive
whether using multiple apps is more advantageous than a single app equipped with various plugins.
5 Design Considerations and System Implementation of braids.social
In part one study, we learned that participants are open to algorithmic curation as long as it high-
lights transparency. Meanwhile, the tools participants currently use for browsing Mastodon feeds do
not have algorithmic curation. In part two of the study, we aim to explore the interface design that
can help Mastodon users configure rule-based algorithmic curation. We built braids.social based
on our aforementioned findings and used it to investigate participants’ needs in the tool that helps
them customize their feeds. An overview of how braids.social generates feed is shown in Figure
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on Mastodon 11
2. In this section, we present the design considerations and implementations of braids.social,
and we report our qualitative findings in the following section.
 Mastodon Feeds:
Home Local Explore
User Preference Input 
Interface
Feed Merge and 
Rearrange
BRAIDS.SOCIAL
Feed
Fig. 2. An overview of how braids.social generate feed
5.1 Design Implications Informed by Part One Study
From part one study, we identified two implications in designing feed curation tools in Mastodon:
• Collapsing Posts into a Single Feed to Reduce Information Overload in Local and
Federated Feeds: Participants from part one of the study reported under-utilization of the
local and federated feeds due to the overwhelming amount of information. In the meantime,
participants also acknowledged the importance of these feeds in providing access to content
from a broader network of accounts and topics. Therefore, we designed braids.socialwith
unified feeds where posts are extracted from three main categories: content users directly
followed (hashtags and accounts), content from people from the same community, and content
from the broader “fediverse”.
• Retain Chronological Order and Indicate Data Source to Increase the Curation
Transparency: Participants from part one study preferred the chronological order and
attributed it to its transparency. When designingbraids.social, we retained the chronological
order within each feed’s fragmentation but kept the composition of the unified feed based
on the user’s settings. In addition, as users value transparency in the algorithmic curation,
each post on the generated feed features a badge indicating the data source it was fetched
from (See Figure 3a). Badges we designed include “Users you follow”, “Hashtag you follow”,
“Trending post”, “Local post” and “Prioritized account”. The badge only reflects the first feed
it was seen in to prevent duplication.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

12 Liu et al.
(a) Posts on the unified feed feature
badges indicating which feed we
pulled it from
(b) braids.social’s default user in-
terface for inputting curation set-
tings
(c) Warning shown running out of
posts from one data source
Fig. 3. Design Considerations of braids.social
5.2 Interface Design
Recent work has validated the efficiency of slider-based design in enhancing transparency in
recommendation systems and content moderation tools [38, 44, 77]. Inspired by this, we designed a
user interface to collect users’ preference of how their unified feeds in braids.social are composed
(See Figure 3b). Through sliders with values ranging from “None” to “High Priority”, users indicate
how much they want to see content from three data sources: posts from accounts and hashtags
you follow (directly followed content), posts in the user’s local server but from accounts they don’t
follow (posts from people in the same community), and posts gaining traction across the federated
remote servers (posts in the broader “fediverse”). Moreover, we displayed the generated feed based
on the user’s setting but kept the chronological order within each fragment. That is, if a user set
“High Priority” to home feeds and “Low Priority” to local feeds, the post fetched from each feed
will be displayed chronologically. Still, posts from the home feed will be placed higher than local
ones, regardless of posting time. Finally, as pointed out by prior work, individuals often prioritize
content from those they care about [30]. We allow people to prioritize specific accounts from any
Mastodon instance, regardless of whether they follow them.
5.3 System Implementation
braids.social is a Mastodon web client built with Flask as the backend and React as the frontend.
It utilizes the Mastodon API to fetch posts from various data sources: Home Timeline API, Public
API (with local parameters), and Trending Status API5 based on users’ configuration, with each
request retrieving 40 posts. The user’s configuration determines the number of posts fetched from
each source. Pseudocode for the implementation is provided in Appendix B. To use braids.social,
5In Mastodon API, status means posts, trending posts feed is a re-ranking of federated feed based on popularity and time of
the posts
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on Mastodon 13
Table 1. Summary of Feed Customization
ID Following Content Local Posts Trending Posts Accounts
P12 High None Medium None
P13 High Low Low None
P14 High Medium None None
P15 High None Low None
P16 High Low Low None
P17 High Low Medium None
P18 Medium None Medium None
P19 High Low Medium None
P20 High None None High
P21 High Low None None
users must authenticate with their preferred Mastodon account via OAuth 2.0 and grant read-only
permissions.
6 Findings: Exploring How to Enable Users to Explicitly Indicate their Preferences in
Mastodon Feed Curation
6.1 The Unified Feed Makes Information More Digestible While Adding Discoverability
First, part two of the study further confirmed the findings from part one of the study that feeds other
than home feed are underutilized. When left to configure their feeds, nine out of ten participants
(except P18) put the following content (Home feed) as a high priority while setting the others
as none, low, or medium, the details of their settings are shown in Table 1. On the one hand,
participants viewed the combination of different feeds “a controlled way to digest local and trending
timelines” (P13) because posts from those two feeds are scattered in the content users are more
familiar with. On the other hand, participants found the unified feed enabled them to discover new
stuff other than what they already followed: “Definitely like to have a single feed. I mostly ignore
other features that are not my main (Home) feed, so, being able to have one feed and mix in the amount
of other stuff that I’m interested in seems really attractive to me, ” (P15)
6.2 The Adaptable Customization Accommodates Users’ Changing Preferences
In part one of the study, participants identified scenarios where they preferred algorithmic feeds,
mainly when they wanted a quick catch-up. While trying out braids.social, participants found
the customization interface especially helpful for prioritizing what they tried to catch up on. For
example, P15 appreciated the design of the priority sliders, stating: “I can put everything down to
None except for the one thing I wanted to make sure I saw. ” Similarly, P21 found the “Prioritized
account” feature valuable: “The fact that I can type in 3 accounts at the bottom to make sure I never
miss anything from those accounts kinda gives me another level of comfort of not feeling like I’m gonna
miss out on something. ” This finding contrasts slightly with our results from the part one study,
where participants preferred chronological feeds to fully catch up on missed content during offline
periods, rather than relying on algorithmic curation. It is important to note that, in this context,
the "algorithms" participants referred to are machine learning-based algorithms commonly used in
mainstream social media platforms. We attribute this attitude difference to the transparency and
user agency embedded in the design of braids.social.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

14 Liu et al.
However, participants acknowledged that their needs would change over time. Beyond catching
up, they expressed interest in adjusting customization settings for other situations. As P14 noted:“I
like the idea of being able to customize what I’m seeing on a you know, daily, weekly basis. If there’s
some breaking news this week, as far as changing my [preferences]. If I was on an art server, I might
be following an artist who’s working on a project. ” P15 also echoed this: “I always felt like there were
times when I might like to hear about the people that I know personally and have a strong connection
to, and everybody else I don’t care about. Or maybe I’m in an exploratory mood, and I’d like to see the
local and trending stuff and be able to broaden my network that way. So that’s interesting, being able
to set what I like, and then being able to change it if I want a different mix. ” P20 mentioned a desire to
toggle back to chronological feeds for more casual browsing: “Maybe I’m sitting down for an hour
of miscellaneous computer time, and that wouldn’t be the point where I’d want to use braids.social,
because I want the richer data experience. ” This finding underscores the importance of flexibility
in the tool to accommodate varying user needs while highlighting the value of allowing users to
switch off algorithmic curation and regain control over their feed.
6.3 Enhancing Curation Transparency – Ensuring Precise Interpretation of Affordances
and Continuously Reinforcing Understanding of the Algorithm
During the part two study, we asked the participants to complete three feed configuration tasks
to make sure they understood how to use the system. Most participants found the slider design
intuitive and easy to understand. However, we observed that it took extra cognitive effort to
understand the differences between sliders’ prioritization levels. For example, P16 said“It’s intuitive
in as much as what [low, medium, high] means. As to how that actually translates, if I really wanted
to know, I’d go in there and start plugging away and doing experiments. ” In addition, participants
developed different interpretations of what “high, medium, and low” means. In task three, to see
twice as many posts from a specific user as trending posts, seven out of ten participants set the
categories to high and low priority, respectively, with the other three choosing high and medium
priority, respectively. P18 explained his decision to choose the former:“I think medium will be a
more incremental relative increase than high. So the high priority made a very noticeable difference
to the low priority. But medium relative to low sometimes it felt like it wasn’t really too much of an
appreciable difference. ”
Moreover, participants identified a couple of braids.social’s features as useful indicators that
the rules-based algorithm worked, i.e., their input to the prioritization interface changed the feed as
expected. All participants found the post badges helpful in seeing where each post was coming from,
and as verification, the sliders worked. P14 added, “I like the feeling that [ braids.social] responds
immediately. Redrawing the timeline when I change the customization rules is really nice. A lot of
times you change the rules, and it’s like, well, maybe that’ll take some effect later. Maybe not. Who
knows?” In addition, some participants wanted confirmation that the algorithm worked as expected
by seeing the feed’s ordering reflect their prioritization settings. In Task 1, to see almost entirely
trending posts, P13 set Trending to high priority, Local to none, and Following and Hashtags to
low priority and said, “I started to see a few ‘Users I follow’ all in a row, and I was like, wait a minute.
Where’d the trending posts go? As we went further down, most of these say “Trending post” And I was
like, okay, never mind. It’s still good. ” P13 expected the category with the highest prioritization to
appear immediately at the top of the feed, while our random integration of the different timelines
does not guarantee this result. The feed should be ordered so that the highest-prioritized posts are
seen at the top and consistently throughout to match people’s expectations.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on Mastodon 15
7 Discussion
In this section, we reflect on the results of the study and discuss design implications for future
curation tools in Mastodon. We distill these into three key takeaways.
7.1 Seamful Design Enhances People’s Acceptance of Algorithmic Feed Curation but
Faces Challenges in Inaccurate Interpretations
Prior work in mainstream centralized social media platforms has documented the resistance of
algorithmic curation in social feeds due to various reasons such as violation of expectations and
misunderstanding of the algorithm [ 16, 23, 24, 63]. However, this resistance was not rooted in
dissatisfaction with the curated content. Instead, it stemmed from a sense of “betrayal” experienced
by users, primarily due to their initial unawareness of the algorithm’s role or a sense of confusion
regarding its operational mechanics [23, 24]. Recent research has highlighted the efficacy of seamful
design approaches in making the algorithms’ presence known and enhancing interactions between
humans and algorithms [ 20, 23]. Our investigation reveals a consistent trend: users, thanks to
seamful design, are cognizant of the algorithmic influence on their content feeds.
Our findings indicate that while visual cues and real-time feedback improved transparency in
algorithmic feed curation, participants remained uncertain about precisely interpreting the slider
affordances, particularly in understanding the exact impact these settings had on feed generation.
As noted by previous research [44], providing greater granularity in conveying differences between
levels could further enhance users’ understanding. We advocate providing more granularity in
seamful design and real-time visual feedback to align with users’ mental models in interpreting
feed curation affordances but leave it to future work to explore the optimal level of granularity.
Moreover, Mastodon is not the only decentralized social media platform that supports multiple
feeds. For example, BlueSky allows users to follow various feeds curated by others based on their
interests in specific topics and accounts [ 72]. The insights gained from our study on seamful
design and slider-based interfaces are also applicable to configuring feeds in other decentralized
social media platforms. As decentralized networks evolve, designing intuitive, user-controlled
curation mechanisms will be critical for enhancing content discoverability while maintaining
transparency and user autonomy. Future research should explore how different decentralized
platforms implement feed customization and how varying degrees of algorithmic assistance impact
user engagement and trust.
7.2 Machine Learning vs. Rule-based Algorithmic Curation
Our study revealed that participants are open to algorithmic curation in addition to their love of
chronological feeds. They identified scenarios where a chronological feed cannot be replaced by
algorithmic feeds, either machine learning-based or rule-based, and vice versa. In summary, our
study results suggest that the feed curation users prefer is closely tied to their browsing intent.
Participants appreciated the randomness of chronological feeds for mindless browsing and valued
the transparency they offered when they had enough time to catch up on all missed content.
However, participants relied on algorithmic assistance when the goal was to catch up on specific
topics or individuals quickly. Rule-based algorithms were considered more useful for configuring
the characteristics of posts to focus on, while machine learning-based algorithms were better
suited for generating quick summaries to help users grasp key information efficiently. In addition,
machine learning-based algorithms are widely recognized to enable personalized content discovery
beyond direct subscriptions [ 8, 62]. Recent research on Mastodon administrators’ governance
challenges highlights the trade-off between transparency in chronological feeds and AI-driven
recommendations. The absence of algorithmic content discovery has been identified as a key
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

16 Liu et al.
limitation, posing challenges for user adoption and engagement within Mastodon instances [81]. In
the area of broader recommendation systems, content discovery is also explored with the definition
of “serendipity”(relevance, novelty, and unexpectedness in the recommendation outputs) [45, 47, 65,
82]. Previously, both rule-based filters and machine learning methods were proposed to encourage
serendipitous discovery while balancing the user’s browsing goals in social media, e-commerce,
and news [12, 32, 33, 46]. In this work, we highlighted the opportunity in future research to balance
the “serendipity” and accuracy in UX design in recommendation systems, especially for increasing
the engagement and retention of newcomers.
Even though some participants hesitate to use machine learning algorithms due to their black-
box nature, it’s important to clarify that it does not necessarily indicate a general opposition to
them. Considering that currently, most Mastodon servers and servers in decentralized social media
operate as non-profit and ad-free entities, it remains an open question whether user attitudes would
shift over time, especially in light of recent advancements in the transparency and explainability
of machine learning algorithm curation on social media [ 35, 60, 66]. This evolving landscape
presents several opportunities for future research. First, there is a need to explore in-depth the
user perceptions of machine learning-based algorithmic curation within the Mastodon network.
Second, we see potential in co-designing the combination of rule-based and machine learning-
based algorithms, actively involving Mastodon users in the development process. Such research
could provide valuable insights into user preferences and contribute to creating more user-centric
algorithmic solutions in decentralized social media.
7.3 Development Choice in the Fediverse: New Apps or Add-ons?
Another observation from our study is that many participants had experience using third-party
apps, with some even primarily relying on them. The popularity of third-party apps can be partially
attributed to the ActivityPub protocol, which allows users to access interoperable data across
the federation network without installing separate apps for each platform. Participants in our
studies normally use more than one app as no singular solution can fully cater to all their needs.
While the decentralized nature of the Fediverse allows for various clients, each addressing specific
user requirements, we observed a reluctance among users to download multiple apps for different
features. The tension between having multiple apps and better user experiences resonates with the
advocacy made by Masnick about build protocols, not platforms . The dissatisfaction of policies on a
single platform pushes people to start more and more platforms. However, these new platforms
cannot satisfy users’ expectations all at once and lack interoperability [54]. With users gaining
more freedom to choose which interface or app they use to interact with protocol-based social
media, the UX challenge remains similar to that of managing multiple platforms: users still need to
navigate multiple apps for different features, much like managing different accounts across different
platforms. Therefore, we raised the question here whether app developers should open access to
make add-on features possible for other developers. We suggest future research to investigate the
trade-offs between creating new apps versus developing add-ons from the perspectives of both
users and developers.
8 Limitations
Our work has several limitations. First, our findings are limited by the small sample size . Mastodon
users are generally more concerned about algorithmic transparency, anti-corporation, and privacy
than traditional social media users . Our use of Google Forms for recruitment and Zoom for
interviews may deterred some Mastodon users from participating in the study. Thus, our insights
may not represent all Mastodon users, who are not representative of all social media users.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on Mastodon 17
Furthermore, Mastodon is a microblogging platform within the broader decentralized social
media ecosystem, alongside platforms like PeerTube for video-sharing and Pixelfed for photo-
sharing. These platform-specific focuses may shape different user expectations, particularly in how
users interact with strong and weak ties and discover new content. As a result, our findings on feed
curation in Mastodon may have limited generalizability across other decentralized platforms with
different interaction dynamics. Additionally, Mastodon operates on the ActivityPub protocol [80],
which differs in decentralized architecture and information flow from other protocols such as
ATProtocol [72] and Farcaster [25]. Consequently, the insights gathered from our user study may
not be directly transferable to platforms using different underlying protocols without significant
adaptation.
9 Conclusion
The decentralized social media Mastodon has attracted considerable attention after Twitter an-
nounced a series of policy changes. In this paper, we conducted a two-part interview study with
Mastodon users to understand how they perceive, interact with, and manage Mastodon feeds and
investigate how we can map the user preference in developing tools in Mastodon feed curation. The
study filled the gap in understanding the dynamics of feed curation in decentralized social media.
Our findings highlight several areas for future HCI research. First, we noticed that seamful design
can enhance people’s acceptance of algorithmic curation but also faces challenges in conveying
affordance more accurately. Second, we discussed the tension between machine learning-based and
rule-based algorithms in feed curation, highlighting that both methods have irreplaceable use cases.
Finally, we advocate for future HCI researchers to investigate the pros and cons of developing new
applications versus integrating add-ons within the Fediverse ecosystem.
10 Disclosure of the usage of LLM
We used ChatGPT (GPT4o model[1]) to facilitate the writing of this manuscript. The usage includes:
• Turn Excel format tables into LaTeX format tables
• Correct grammar mistakes and spelling
• Polish the existing writing by prompts like “Find me a synonym of X, ” “What is the noun/adjective
form of X” and “Shorten this sentence without changing its content. ”
Acknowledgments
We would like to thank Laiba Ali for her support in conducting interviews and generating transcripts.
We would also like to thank all our interviewees for their insights.
References
[1] Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman, Diogo Almeida,
Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal Anadkat, et al. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774
(2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2303.08774
[2] Ishaku Hassan Anaobi, Aravindh Raman, Ignacio Castro, Haris Bin Zia, Damilola Ibosiola, and Gareth Tyson. 2023. Will
Admins Cope? Decentralized Moderation in the Fediverse. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2023 . 3109–3120.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3543507.3583487
[3] Eytan Bakshy, Solomon Messing, and Lada A Adamic. 2015. Exposure to ideologically diverse news and opinion on
Facebook. Science 348, 6239 (2015), 1130–1132. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaa1160
[4] Jack Bandy and Nicholas Diakopoulos. 2021. More accounts, fewer links: How algorithmic curation impacts media
exposure in Twitter timelines. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction 5, CSCW1 (2021), 1–28.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3449152
[5] Shlomo Berkovsky and Jill Freyne. 2015. Personalized social network activity feeds for increased interaction and
content contribution. Frontiers in Robotics and AI 2 (2015), 24. https://doi.org/10.3389/frobt.2015.00024
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

18 Liu et al.
[6] Michael Bernstein, S Kairam, B Suh, L Hong, and EH Chi. 2010. A torrent of tweets: managing information overload in
online social streams. In Workshop on Microblogging: What and How Can We Learn From It (CHI EA ’10) .
[7] Michael S Bernstein, Bongwon Suh, Lichan Hong, Jilin Chen, Sanjay Kairam, and Ed H Chi. 2010. Eddi: interactive
topic-based browsing of social status streams. In Proceedings of the 23nd annual ACM symposium on User interface
software and technology. 303–312. https://doi.org/10.1145/1866029.1866077
[8] Bhumika Bhatt, Premal J Patel, and Hetal Gaudani. 2014. A review paper on machine learning based recommendation
system. International journal of engineering development and research 2, 4 (2014), 3955–3961. https://rjwave.org/ijedr/
papers/IJEDR1404092.pdf
[9] Virginia Braun and Victoria Clarke. 2006. Using thematic analysis in psychology. Qualitative research in psychology 3,
2 (2006), 77–101. https://doi.org/10.1191/1478088706qp063oa
[10] Aggi Cantrill. 2022. Mastodon Struggles to Keep Up With Surge of New Users Fleeing Twitter. Bloomberg (7 November
2022). https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-11-07/mastodon-struggles-to-keep-up-with-surge-of-new-
users-fleeing-twitter#xj4y7vzkg
[11] Lucio La Cava, Luca Maria Aiello, and Andrea Tagarelli. 2023. Drivers of social influence in the Twitter migration to
Mastodon. Scientific Reports 13, 1 (2023), 21626. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48200-7
[12] Yu-Shian Chiu, Kuei-Hong Lin, and Jia-Sin Chen. 2011. A social network-based serendipity recommender system.
In 2011 International Symposium on Intelligent Signal Processing and Communications Systems (ISPACS) . IEEE, 1–5.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ISPACS.2011.6146073
[13] Wikipedia contributors. 2024. Fediverse — Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fediverse.
[14] Paul Covington, Jay Adams, and Emre Sargin. 2016. Deep neural networks for youtube recommendations. InProceedings
of the 10th ACM conference on recommender systems . 191–198. https://doi.org/10.1145/2959100.2959190
[15] Anwitaman Datta, Sonja Buchegger, Le-Hung Vu, Thorsten Strufe, and Krzysztof Rzadca. 2010. Decentralized online
social networks. Handbook of social network technologies and applications (2010), 349–378. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
1-4419-7142-5_17
[16] Michael A DeVito, Darren Gergle, and Jeremy Birnholtz. 2017. " Algorithms ruin everything" # RIPTwitter, Folk
Theories, and Resistance to Algorithmic Change in Social Media. In Proceedings of the 2017 CHI conference on human
factors in computing systems . 3163–3174. https://doi.org/10.1145/3025453.3025659
[17] Nicholas Diakopoulos. 2014. Algorithmic accountability reporting: On the investigation of black boxes. Tow Center for
Digital Journalism, Columbia University 10 (2014). https://doi.org/10.1080/21670811.2014.976411
[18] Kevin Duh, Tsutomu Hirao, Akisato Kimura, Katsuhiko Ishiguro, Tomoharu Iwata, and Ching-Man Au Yeung. 2012.
Creating stories: Social curation of Twitter messages. In Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and
Social Media, Vol. 6. 447–450. https://doi.org/10.1609/icwsm.v6i1.14287
[19] Erwan Dujeancourt and Marcel Garz. 2023. The effects of algorithmic content selection on user engagement with
news on twitter. The Information Society 39, 5 (2023), 263–281. https://doi.org/10.1080/01972243.2023.2230471
[20] Upol Ehsan, Q Vera Liao, Samir Passi, Mark O Riedl, and Hal Daumé III. 2024. Seamful XAI: Operationalizing
Seamful Design in Explainable AI. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction 8, CSCW1 (2024), 1–29.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3637396
[21] Elk. 2024. Elk: A Lightweight Mastodon Web Client. https://elk.zone/
[22] Motahhare Eslami, Amirhossein Aleyasen, Karrie Karahalios, Kevin Hamilton, and Christian Sandvig. 2015. Feedvis: A
path for exploring news feed curation algorithms. In Proceedings of the 18th acm conference companion on computer
supported cooperative work & social computing . 65–68. https://doi.org/10.1145/2685553.2702690
[23] Motahhare Eslami, Karrie Karahalios, Christian Sandvig, Kristen Vaccaro, Aimee Rickman, Kevin Hamilton, and Alex
Kirlik. 2016. First I" like" it, then I hide it: Folk Theories of Social Feeds. In Proceedings of the 2016 cHI conference on
human factors in computing systems . 2371–2382. https://doi.org/10.1145/2858036.2858494
[24] Motahhare Eslami, Aimee Rickman, Kristen Vaccaro, Amirhossein Aleyasen, Andy Vuong, Karrie Karahalios, Kevin
Hamilton, and Christian Sandvig. 2015. "I always assumed that I wasn’t really that close to [her]" Reasoning about
Invisible Algorithms in News Feeds. In Proceedings of the 33rd annual ACM conference on human factors in computing
systems. 153–162. https://doi.org/10.1145/2702123.2702556
[25] Farcaster. 2025. Farcaster Documentation. https://docs.farcaster.xyz/
[26] FediDB. 2025. Fediverse Network Statistics. https://fedidb.org/
[27] Fedilab. 2024. Fedilab: A Versatile Client for the Fediverse. https://fedilab.app/
[28] Fedi.Tips. 2023. Which apps can I use? Should I use the official app or a third-party app? (2023). https://fedi.tips/which-
apps-can-i-use-should-i-use-the-official-app-or-a-third-party-app/
[29] KJ Feng, Xander Koo, Lawrence Tan, Amy Bruckman, David W McDonald, and Amy X Zhang. 2024. Mapping the
Design Space of Teachable Social Media Feed Experiences. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.14000 (2024). https://doi.org/10.
1145/3613904.3642120
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on Mastodon 19
[30] Kevin Feng, David McDonald, and Amy Zhang. 2023. Teachable Agents for End-User Empowerment in Personalized Feed
Curation.
[31] Jessica L Feuston, Alex S Taylor, and Anne Marie Piper. 2020. Conformity of eating disorders through content
moderation. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction 4, CSCW1 (2020), 1–28. https://doi.org/10.1145/
3392845
[32] Richard Fletcher and Rasmus Kleis Nielsen. 2018. Automated serendipity: The effect of using search engines on news
repertoire balance and diversity. Digital Journalism 6, 8 (2018), 976–989. https://doi.org/10.1080/21670811.2018.1502045
[33] Mouzhi Ge, Carla Delgado-Battenfeld, and Dietmar Jannach. 2010. Beyond accuracy: evaluating recommender
systems by coverage and serendipity. In Proceedings of the fourth ACM conference on Recommender systems . 257–260.
https://doi.org/10.1145/1864708.1864761
[34] Amy Gesenhues. 2018. Facebook cuts off access to API platform for hundreds of thousands of inactive apps. (2018).
https://martech.org/facebook-cuts-off-access-to-api-platform-for-hundreds-of-thousands-of-inactive-apps/
[35] Homero Gil de Zúñiga, Zicheng Cheng, and Pablo González-González. 2022. Effects of the News Finds Me perception
on algorithmic news attitudes and social media political homophily. Journal of Communication 72, 5 (2022), 578–591.
https://doi.org/10.1093/joc/jqac025
[36] Eric Gilbert. 2012. Predicting tie strength in a new medium. In Proceedings of the ACM 2012 conference on Computer
Supported Cooperative Work. 1047–1056. https://doi.org/10.1145/2145204.2145360
[37] Jay Graber. 2021. Ecosystem Review. https://gitlab.com/bluesky-community1/decentralized-ecosystem Archived at
https://perma.cc/RJ2Y-H6YT.
[38] Chen He, Denis Parra, and Katrien Verbert. 2016. Interactive recommender systems: A survey of the state of the
art and future research challenges and opportunities. Expert Systems with Applications 56 (2016), 9–27. https:
//doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2016.02.013
[39] Wanrong He, Mitchell L Gordon, Lindsay Popowski, and Michael S Bernstein. 2023. Cura: Curation at Social Media
Scale. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction 7, CSCW2 (2023), 1–33. https://doi.org/10.1145/3610186
[40] Sohyeon Hwang, Priyanka Nanayakkara, and Yan Shvartzshnaider. 2023. Whose policy? Privacy challenges of
decentralized platforms. In CHI’23 Workshops: Designing Technology and Policy Simultaneously: Towards A Research
Agenda and New Practice . https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4416746
[41] Ice Cubes. 2024. Ice Cubes: A Mastodon Client. https://github.com/Dimillian/IceCubesApp
[42] Ivory. 2024. Ivory: A Mastodon Client by Tapbots. https://tapbots.com/ivory/
[43] Ujun Jeong, Paras Sheth, Anique Tahir, Faisal Alatawi, H Russell Bernard, and Huan Liu. 2023. Exploring platform
migration patterns between twitter and mastodon: A user behavior study. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.09196 (2023).
https://doi.org/10.1609/icwsm.v18i1.31348
[44] Shagun Jhaver, Alice Qian Zhang, Quan Ze Chen, Nikhila Natarajan, Ruotong Wang, and Amy X Zhang. 2023.
Personalizing content moderation on social media: User perspectives on moderation choices, interface design, and
labor. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction 7, CSCW2 (2023), 1–33. https://doi.org/10.1145/3610080
[45] Denis Kotkov, Alan Medlar, and Dorota Glowacka. 2023. Rethinking serendipity in recommender systems. InProceedings
of the 2023 Conference on Human Information Interaction and Retrieval. 383–387. https://doi.org/10.1145/3576840.3578310
[46] Denis Kotkov, Jari Veijalainen, and Shuaiqiang Wang. 2020. How does serendipity affect diversity in recommender
systems? A serendipity-oriented greedy algorithm. Computing 102 (2020), 393–411. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00607-
018-0687-5
[47] Denis Kotkov, Shuaiqiang Wang, and Jari Veijalainen. 2016. A survey of serendipity in recommender systems.
Knowledge-Based Systems 111 (2016), 180–192. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2016.08.014
[48] Lucio La Cava, Sergio Greco, and Andrea Tagarelli. 2021. Understanding the growth of the Fediverse through the lens
of Mastodon. Applied network science 6 (2021), 1–35. https://doi.org/10.1007/s41109-021-00392-5
[49] Lucio La Cava, Sergio Greco, and Andrea Tagarelli. 2022. Information consumption and boundary spanning in
Decentralized Online Social Networks: The case of Mastodon users. Online Social Networks and Media 30 (2022), 100220.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.osnem.2022.100220
[50] Kijung Lee and Mian Wang. 2023. Uses and Gratifications of Alternative Social Media: Why do people use Mastodon?
arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.01285 (2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2303.01285
[51] Kristina Lerman and Rumi Ghosh. 2010. Information contagion: An empirical study of the spread of news on digg
and twitter social networks. In Proceedings of the international AAAI conference on web and social media , Vol. 4. 90–97.
https://doi.org/10.1609/icwsm.v4i1.14021
[52] Yuhan Liu, Varun Rao, Xingjian Zhang, Ryan Liu, Priyanka Nanayakkara, Zilin Ma, Kevin Feng, and Zhilin Zhang.
2024. Five Themes Discussed at Princeton’s Workshop on Decentralized Social Media. https://freedom-to-tinker.com/
2024/03/19/five-themes-discussed-at-princetons-workshop-on-decentralized-social-media/
[53] Aymeric Mansoux and Roel Roscam Abbing. 2020. Seven theses on the fediverse and the becoming of FLOSS. (2020).
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

20 Liu et al.
[54] Mike Masnick. 2019. Protocols, Not Platforms: A Technological Approach to Free Speech. https://knightcolumbia.org/
content/protocols-not-platforms-a-technological-approach-to-free-speech
[55] Mastodon gGmbH. [n. d.]. Mastodon - Social networking that’s not for sale. https://joinmastodon.org.
[56] Nora McDonald, Sarita Schoenebeck, and Andrea Forte. 2019. Reliability and inter-rater reliability in qualitative
research: Norms and guidelines for CSCW and HCI practice. Proceedings of the ACM on human-computer interaction 3,
CSCW (2019), 1–23. https://doi.org/10.1145/3359174
[57] Eric Meyerson. 2012. Youtube now: Why we focus on watch time. YouTube Creator Blog 10 (2012).
[58] Smitha Milli, Luca Belli, and Moritz Hardt. 2021. From optimizing engagement to measuring value. InProceedings of the
2021 ACM conference on fairness, accountability, and transparency . 714–722. https://doi.org/10.1145/3442188.3445933
[59] Arvind Narayanan. 2023. Understanding Social Media Recommendation Algorithms. https://knightcolumbia.org/
content/understanding-social-media-recommendation-algorithms
[60] Thao Ngo and Nicole Krämer. 2022. Exploring folk theories of algorithmic news curation for explainable design.
Behaviour & Information Technology 41, 15 (2022), 3346–3359. https://doi.org/10.1080/0144929X.2021.1987522
[61] Matthew N. Nicholson. 2023. An Exploration of the Twitter to Mastodon Migration .
[62] Ivens Portugal, Paulo Alencar, and Donald Cowan. 2018. The use of machine learning algorithms in recommender
systems: A systematic review. Expert Systems with Applications 97 (2018), 205–227. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2017.
12.020
[63] Emilee Rader and Rebecca Gray. 2015. Understanding user beliefs about algorithmic curation in the Facebook news
feed. In Proceedings of the 33rd annual ACM conference on human factors in computing systems . 173–182. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/2702123.2702174
[64] Aravindh Raman, Sagar Joglekar, Emiliano De Cristofaro, Nishanth Sastry, and Gareth Tyson. 2019. Challenges in
the decentralised web: The mastodon case. In Proceedings of the internet measurement conference . 217–229. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3355369.3355572
[65] Urbano Reviglio. 2019. Serendipity as an emerging design principle of the infosphere: challenges and opportunities.
Ethics and Information Technology 21, 2 (2019), 151–166. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10676-018-9496-y
[66] Michael Ridley. 2023. Using folk theories of recommender systems to inform human-centered explainable AI (HCXAI).
The Canadian Journal of Information and Library Science46, 2 (2023), 1–19. https://doi.org/10.5206/cjils-rcsib.v46i2.15723
[67] Manuel Gomez Rodriguez, Krishna Gummadi, and Bernhard Schoelkopf. 2014. Quantifying information overload in
social media and its impact on social contagions. In Proceedings of the international AAAI conference on web and social
media, Vol. 8. 170–179. https://doi.org/10.1609/icwsm.v8i1.14549
[68] Clay Shirky. 2011. The political power of social media: Technology, the public sphere, and political change. Foreign
affairs (2011), 28–41. http://www.jstor.org/stable/25800379
[69] Chris Stokel-Walkerarchive. 2022. Twitter may have lost more than a million users since Elon Musk took over. MIT
Technology Review (3 November 2022). https://www.technologyreview.com/2022/11/03/1062752/twitter-may-have-
lost-more-than-a-million-users-since-elon-musk-took-over/
[70] A Nicole Sump-Crethar. 2012. Making the most of Twitter. The reference librarian 53, 4 (2012), 349–354. https:
//doi.org/10.1080/02763877.2012.704566
[71] Aditya Surve, Aneesh Shamraj, and Swapneel Mehta. 2024. How Decentralization Affects User Agency on Social
Platforms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.09035 (2024). https://doi.org/10.36190/2024.74
[72] The Bluesky Team. 2023. Algorithmic Choice with Custom Feeds. https://blueskyweb.xyz/blog/7-27-2023-custom-
feeds.
[73] Tusky. 2024. Tusky for Mastodon. https://tusky.app/
[74] Twitter. 2023. Twitter’s Recommendation Algorithm. https://blog.twitter.com/engineering/en_us/topics/open-
source/2023/twitter-recommendation-algorithm
[75] Kristen Vaccaro, Ziang Xiao, Kevin Hamilton, and Karrie Karahalios. 2021. Contestability for content moderation.
Proceedings of the ACM on human-computer interaction 5, CSCW2 (2021), 1–28. https://doi.org/10.1145/3476059
[76] Christina Warren. 2012. Twitter’s API Update Cuts Off Oxygen to Third-Party Clients. (2012). https://mashable.com/
archive/twitter-api-big-changes
[77] Tom Warren. 2021. Intel’s Bleep is a new AI-powered tool that filters out toxic speech in games. (April 2021).
https://www.theverge.com/2021/4/8/22373290/intel-bleep-ai-powered-abuse-toxicity-gaming-filters The Verge.
[78] Dennis M Wilkinson. 2008. Strong regularities in online peer production. In Proceedings of the 9th ACM conference on
Electronic commerce. 302–309. https://doi.org/10.1145/1386790.1386837
[79] Julia Carrie Wong. 2018. Facebook overhauls News Feed in favor of’meaningful social interactions. The Guardian 12
(2018).
[80] World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). 2018. ActivityPub: Distributed Social Networks Protocol . https://www.w3.org/TR/
activitypub/#Overview
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on Mastodon 21
[81] Zhilin Zhang, Jun Zhao, Ge Wang, Samantha-Kaye Johnston, George Chalhoub, Tala Ross, Diyi Liu, Claudine Tinsman,
Rui Zhao, Max Van Kleek, et al. 2024. Trouble in Paradise? Understanding Mastodon Admin’s Motivations, Experiences,
and Challenges Running Decentralised Social Media. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction 8, CSCW2
(2024), 1–24. https://doi.org/10.1145/3687059
[82] Reza Jafari Ziarani and Reza Ravanmehr. 2021. Serendipity in recommender systems: a systematic literature review.
Journal of Computer Science and Technology 36 (2021), 375–396. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11390-020-0135-9
[83] Matteo Zignani, Sabrina Gaito, and Gian Paolo Rossi. 2018. Follow the “mastodon”: Structure and evolution of a
decentralized online social network. In Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media ,
Vol. 12. 541–550. https://doi.org/10.1609/icwsm.v12i1.14988
A Basic Information of Study Participants
To exclude personal information, we use general descriptions of their home server instead of
explicitly listing the exact ones.
Table 2. Basic Information of Participants in the Exploratory and User Study
ID Year Joined Gender Home Server Country Mastodon Client
P1 2020 Female Academic USA Native app, Elk
P2 2023 Female Art creators USA TweeseCase, Mona, Tuskey
P3 2021 Male Anarchist and Communist USA Native app, Tusky
P4 2022 Female General-purpose USA Native app
P5 2022 Female General-purpose USA Native app
P6 2022 Male General-purpose USA Ivory
P7 2022 Female Regional USA Native app
P8 2023 Male General-purpose USA Fedilab
P9 2022 Female People of color USA Native app, justmytoots.com
P10 2018 Male Regional USA Elk, Fedilab
P11 2016 Female General-purpose USA Native app
P12 2022 Female Not Specified USA Native app, Tusky
P13 2022 Male Not Specified USA Elk, Ivory, Ice Cubes
P14 2022 Male Not Specified USA Native app, Mastonaut
P15 2022 Male Not Specified USA Native app, Fedilabs
P16 2018 Male Not Specified Canada Elk, Megaladon, Tuba
P17 2022 Male Not Specified USA Native app, Ivory, Megalodon
P18 2023 Male Not Specified USA Native app, Moshido
P19 2017 Female Not Specified USA Native app, Tusky
P20 2018 Male Not Specified Germany Native app, Ice Cubes
P21 2017 Male Not Specified USA Native app, Ivory
B The Rules-based Curation Algorithm of braids.social
Below is the pseudocode for the two functions used to generate the unified feed given the user’s
input to the prioritization interface. We call the Mastodon API in getFeed() to retrieve the posts.
We combine the posts from the different timelines in combinePosts().
# This function takes the posts retrieved from the different feeds and merges them together based
on the prioritization level assigned to each feed
def combinePosts(posts):
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

22 Liu et al.
seen = dictionary of IDs of posts we have already
seen (to prevent duplicates)
scoreSum = total sum of the prioritization levels
filters = get list of content filters
if we have posts from the Home feed:
map each post from Home to whether or not its author is a followed user
while posts is non-empty:
randomly select one of the non-empty categories of posts
remove the category 's most recent post from the list of posts
remove category if it is now empty
if the post has not been seen already and does not contain a filtered-out phrase:
reformat and add a field for post category to the post 's JSON
add this post 's id to be seen
break
return the list of seen posts
# This function retrieves posts from Mastodon 's feeds via the API in proportion to the user 's
prioritization specifications
# scores is a dictionary with category names as keys, and the integer mapping of the prioritization levels
as values (none is 0, low is 1, medium is 2, high is 3)
# first_page is a boolean that is True when we have just reloaded the page, and False if we have clicked
'Show more ' to see new posts
# Returns a tuple: (list of post JSONs, ranOut: boolean for whether or not to display the warning that we 've
run out of posts from either Home feed or a prioritized account)
def getFeed(scores, first_page):
last_index = dictionary mapping categories to the
index of the last post retrieved
ranOut = False
reset last_index to initial values if first_page is True
sum = sum of the prioritization scores
if sum is 0:
return (empty list of posts, False)
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on Mastodon 23
# Function retrieving posts from finite feeds such as Home feed or prioritized accounts
def getFinitePosts():
if the category received prioritization level None
or we 've run out of posts:
return empty list of posts
calculate proportional number of posts to retrieve based on prioritization level:
(score * 40) // sum
if the category is Home:
retrieve appropriate number of posts from the Home feed via Mastodon API
else:
retrieve appropriate number of posts from the prioritized account
if 0 posts were returned:
ranOut = True
return empty list of posts
update last_index[category]
return posts
# Function retrieving posts from infinite feeds like Local and Trending
def getInfinitePosts():
if the category received prioritization level None:
return empty list of posts
calculate proportional number of posts to retrieve based on prioritization level:
(score * 40) // sum
if the category is Local:
retrieve appropriate number of posts from the Local feed via Mastodon API
else:
retrieve appropriate number of posts from the Trending feed via Mastodon API
update last_index[category]
return posts
# Retrieve posts with Mastodon API
posts = {}
for each slider category:
if category is Local or Trending:
category_posts = getInfinitePosts()
else:
category_posts = getFinitePosts()
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

24 Liu et al.
if len(category_posts) > 0:
posts[category] = category_posts
# Combine the posts from the three timelines all_posts = combinePosts(posts)
return all_posts, ranOut
C Part 1 Codebook
Table 3. Part 1 Codebook
Code Subcode Definition
Usage Of Third Party Software Usage Of Third Party Software What third-party software participants use.
Why Third Party Software Dislike Official App Why they use third party software instead of official app.
Like Third Party App
Device Use Device Use On what device participant use to browse content.
Homeserver Selection Choice Of Homeserver How participants choose their home servers.
Server Migration Participants migrating from another server to their current home server.
Reason Joining Mastodon Reason Joining Mastodon Why participants decided to join Mastodon.
Joining Time Joining Time When the participant joined / created an account on Mastodon.
Active Time Active Time Some people join before 2022 but are not active until 2022 Twitter migration event.
Reason Not Active Reason Not Active Why participants were not active immediately after joining.
Reason Become Active Reason Become Active Why they became active after joining.
Usage Similarity Between Twitter And Mastodon Usage Similarity Between Twitter And Mastodon Similar behavior on Twitter vs. Mastodon.
Usage Difference Between Twitter And Mastodon Usage Difference Between Twitter And Mastodon Different behavior on Twitter vs. Mastodon.
Community Motivation Behind Mastodon Use Community Motivation Behind Mastodon Use Participant’s motivation to join their homeserver.
Frequency Checking Home Frequency Checking Home How often they check home timeline.
Frequency Checking Local Frequency Checking Local How often they check local timeline.
Frequency Checking Federated Frequency Checking Federated How often they check federated timeline.
Frequency Checking Explore Frequency Checking Explore How often they check explore timeline.
Reasons Of Frequency Difference Reasons Of Frequency Difference Why do they check one timeline more frequent than others?
Curation Of Home Discover New Follows What methods do they use to curate their home timeline.
Follow Hashtags
Timline Timline Whether the timeline is related/aligned with user’s motivation/goals.
Like Of Chronological Order Like Of Chronological Order Participant likes chronological order.
Dislike Of Chronological Order Dislike Of Chronological Order Participant dislikes chronological order.
Like Of Algorithmic Mediation Like Of Algorithmic Mediation Participation likes the idea of algorithmic feed.
Dislike Of Algorithmic Mediation Dislike Of Algorithmic Mediation Participation dislikes the idea of algorithmic mediation.
Like Of Mastodon User Base Like Of Mastodon User Base Participant likes the userbase of Mastodon, such as nice people, friendly community, better quality posts.
Dislike Of Mastodon User Base Dislike Of Mastodon User Base Participant disliked the userbase of Mastodon, such as political extremism, low quality content.
Confusion About Mastodon Terms Confusion About Mastodon Terms Participant does not understand Mastodon terminology.
Confusion About Ui Confusion About Ui Participant gets confused over Mastodon UI, such as multiple timelines and accounts management.
Privacy Concern Privacy Concern Participant is concerned about privacy of data.
Wishlist Of Home Wishlist Of Home Features the participant would like on home timeline.
Wishlist Of Local Wishlist Of Local Features the participant would like on local timeline.
Wishlist Of Federated Wishlist Of Federated Features the participant would like on federated timeline.
Wishlist Of Explore Wishlist Of Explore Features the participant would like on explore timeline.
General Wishlist General Wishlist
Remove Duplicates In Timelines Remove Duplicates In Timelines There are duplicate posts in home/local/federated timelines.
Like Of Home Like Of Home Participant likes home timeline and why.
Like Of Local Like Of Local Participant likes local timeline and why.
Like Of Federated Like Of Federated Participant likes federated timeline and why.
Like Of Explore Like Of Explore Participant likes explore timeline and why.
Dislike Of Home Dislike Of Home Participant dislikes home timeline and why.
Dislike Of Local Dislike Of Local Participant dislikes local timeline and why.
Dislike Of Federated Dislike Of Federated Participant dislikes federated timeline and why.
Dislike Of Explore Dislike Of Explore Participant dislikes explore timeline and why.
Different Interaction On Different Timelines Different Interaction On Different Timelines How to participant interact (boost, like, retoot) differently across timelines.
Important Post Attribute Important Post Attribute Participant expresses what qualities of a post are important to them.
Like Of Moderation Like Of Moderation Participants likes the moderation of their server.
Concerns Of Moderation Concerns Of Moderation Participants dislikes the moderation of their server.
Mastodon Atmosphere Mastodon Atmosphere Participants discusses Mastodon atmosphere and their feelings about it.
Usage Of Multiple Accounts Usage Of Multiple Accounts Participant discusses their usage of multiple accounts on Mastodon.
D Part 2 Codebook
Received 20 February 2007; revised 12 March 2009; accepted 5 June 2009
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.

Understanding Decentralized Social Feed Curation on Mastodon 25
Table 4. Part 2 Codebook
Code Group Code
Mastodon Usage Primarily prefers the Home feed because they’ve curated it carefully (personalized content, trusted sources).
Uses local feed or hashtags when they’ve run out of content on the Home feed.
Uses lists to catch up with content on a specific topic or group.
Doesn’t generally like to see trending posts and prefers content they’ve explicitly chosen.
Believes Mastodon should have more tools for curating timelines.
Likes chronological ordering because they don’t trust algorithmic feeds.
Prefers having multiple columns or less white space to see more content at once.
Wants to reduce the amount of random or suggested content.
Mastodon needs to work on discoverability.
Usefulness of Braids.Social Seeing content from firehose in a controlled way.
Discoverability and seeing new content.
Makes sure they don’t miss any content for efficient catching up.
Adapting to preferences over time or in different contexts.
A convenient, on-the-go customization tool.
Maintains a chronological timeline where they still have control.
Primarily wants to see their Home timeline with subtle adjustments from Braids.
Wants the flexibility to see their Home feed (via Braids) alongside other content streams.
Finds prioritizing accounts useful for seeing their favorite content first.
Seeing local posts is not useful for large instances.
Braids is not useful for search.
Prefers a simple, readable interface.
Miscellaneous.
Algorithmic Understanding Confusing to understand intuitively without explanation.
Confusing to understand the relationship between the sliders and timeline adjustments.
Informational section was helpful for understanding algorithmic adjustments.
Needs greater reinforcement of the informational tooltips.
Badges were helpful for seeing where each post came from.
Would want to see multiple badges if it applies to more than one category.
Would like immediate confirmation of the rules-based outcomes.
Would want a little more clarity to ensure they understand how sliders affect the timeline.
Initially believed "Prioritized Accounts" referred to accounts they interact with most often.
Did not find it obvious how to access the slider interface initially.
Slider Interface Wants to be able to prioritize specific instances.
Wants to be able to prioritize users and hashtags separately.
Might enjoy more granularity in the different slider options.
Sliders provided more control and were easy to adjust quickly.
More time would be needed to understand the different slider options fully.
Enjoys having proportion sliders rather than a binary on/off.
Expressed intuitive understanding of the different sliders after brief use.
Liked being able to mute or set a category to None.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018.