                     EscapingtheEvilsofCentralizedControl
                          withself-certifying pathnames
                                  `
                         David Mazieres and M. Frans Kaashoek
                          dm@lcs.mit.edu,kaashoek@lcs.mit.edu
                          MITLaboratoryfor ComputerScience
                       545TechnologySquare, Cambridge MA 02139
                                     Abstract
            People have long trusted central authorities to coordinate secure collaboration on local-area
          networks. Unfortunately, the Internet doesn’t provide the kind of administrative structures individ-
          ual organizations do. As such, users risk painful consequences if global, distributed systems rely
          on central authorities for security. Fortunately, security need not come at the price of centralized
          control. To prove it, we present SFS, a secure, global, decentralized ﬁle system permitting easy
          cross-administrative realm collaboration. With a simple idea, self-certifying pathnames, SFS lets
          users escape the evils of centralized control.
          1 Introduction
            As distributed applications become increasingly prevalent, we must confront a serious danger:
          Future distributed infrastructures may, as a condition for security, subject their users to rigid, cen-
          tralized control with stiﬂing consequences. People collaborating across local-area networks usu-
          ally work within the same organization, limiting the incentive for malicious behavior and making
          it reasonable for someone trusted to coordinate the collaboration. The same does not hold true
          across the Internet. Global distributed applications must now handle previously unusual adminis-
          trative relationships, from ﬁle sharing between organizationsor homestorunninguntrustedforeign
          code on a local machine. If developers of global applications approach these situations with the
          techniquesthatworkedonlocal-areanetworks,theywillforceeveryonetosubmittoinappropriate,
          centralized authorities. Fortunately, the problems of centralized control can be avoided. This paper
          presents SFS, a secure and decentralized global ﬁle system.
            Onemustasktwofundamentalquestionsaboutanyglobalﬁle system: Whocontrolsthe name-
          space, and how do clients trust remote machines to serve parts of that namespace? A centrally
          controlled namespace hinders deployment; it prevents new ﬁle servers from coming on-line until
          This research was supported by a National Science Foundation NYI award.
       they gain approval from the naming authority. On the other hand, clients need cryptographic guar-
       antees on the integrity and secrecy of remote communications; these guarantees require a binding
       between encryption keys and points in the global namespace. To provide this binding without re-
       lying on naming authorities, SFS embeds the equivalent of a server’s public key in the pathname
       for a ﬁle. We call such pathnames self-certifying pathnames.
        Byexposingpublickeysinself-certifyingpathnames,SFSmanagestopermitarbitrarykeyman-
       agement policies within a single namespace. SFS recognizes that no single name to key binding
       process can satisfy all needs. Certiﬁcation authorities, hierarchical delegation, informal key ex-
       change, the “web of trust,” and even hard-coded encryption keys all have their place in different
       situations. The rest of this paper will show that a secure ﬁle system can, in fact, support all of these
       situations.
        The next section motivates the SFS design by outlining the evils of centralized control. The
       remaining sections show how users can escape these evils through SFS, and explain how SFS
       allowssecurecross-administrativerealmcollaborationwithoutresortingtoanycentralizedcontrol.
       2 TheEvilsofCentralized Control
        Authentication constitutes a major part of any secure network infrastructure. One cannot make
       use of user accounts or network resources without authenticating them. Whoever controls authen-
       tication therefore controls the creation of new resources. Concentrating that power in the hands
       of a central authority will hinder deployment, stiﬂe innovation, complicate cross-administrative
       realm collaboration, exclude valid network resources, create single points failure, and generally
       put everyone at the mercy of the authority.
        Several forms of centralized control can plague distributed systems. Most obvious is an over-
       reliance on certiﬁcation authorities. Any secure global infrastructure must let organizations bind
       names to public keys, but no system should inherently trust such certiﬁcation authorities or grant
       themspecial privileges or status. A system that can’t function without a particular certiﬁcation au-
       thority places users at the mercy of that authority. Should the authority decide to extort high fees,
       disclaimall liability, exclude people from certain countries, or even mandate key escrow, users will
       have no choice but to comply.
        As an example, SSL [5], the protocol over which secure HTTP runs, relies too heavily on cer-
       tiﬁcation authorities. Early versions of the Netscape web client could use only one certiﬁcation
       authority, Verisign. One couldn’t use Netscape with secure HTTP, even to debug a web server,
       without paying hundreds of dollars to buy a Verisign certiﬁcate for the server’s host. To make
       matters worse, particularly for those developing free web servers, Verisign refused to issue certiﬁ-
       cates to anyone who didn’t run one of several commercial web servers. Now the Netscape browser
       allows users to choose the certiﬁcation authorities they trust, but it essentially awards all author-
       ities the same level of trust. This means certiﬁcation authorities all demand a similarly exacting
       certiﬁcation process. The hassle of this process has limited the spread of secure HTTP servers.
        Another form of centralized control results from systems that somehow penalize cross-admin-
       istrative realm use. To facilitate collaboration, users of such systems tend to form inconveniently
       large administrative realms. The Kerberos [15] authentication system suffers from exactly this
       problem. Kerberos administrative realms often span many departments within an organization.
       People responsible for buying and otherwise maintaining machines often cannot create accounts
       or set up servers without involving a Kerberos administrator. The AFS [7] distributed ﬁle system
       has an even worse problem. Not only is authentication based on Kerberos, but administrators of
       client machines must also enumerate every single ﬁle server the client can talk to. An unprivileged
       user of an AFS client simply cannot access a ﬁle server his administrator does not know about.
       Therest of the paper will describe a distributed ﬁle system that avoids these problems.
       3 Self-Certifying Pathnames
        Through self-certifying pathnames, SFS provides a global name space over which no authority
       has control. Furthermore, this namespace permits cryptographic guarantees on communications
       with ﬁle servers.
        EachSFSﬁlesystemhasanameoftheform“/sfs/Location:HostID.” LocationtellsanSFS
       client where to communicate with a server, HostID tells it how to communicate securely. Location
       is simply a DNS hostname or IP address. HostID is a cryptographic hash of the server’s public key
       and hostname. SFS calculates HostID with SHA-1 [4], a one-way function for which there exist
       no known collisions. HostID therefore speciﬁes a unique, veriﬁable public key with which clients
       canestablishsecure communicationchannelstoservers. Withthisscheme,thenameofanSFSﬁle
       system entirely sufﬁces to certify its server. Thus, self-certifying pathnames form an egalitarian
       namespace that assures every SFS ﬁle system a place.
        SFSclients need not know about ﬁle systems before users access them. When a user references
       a non-existent directory of the proper format under /sfs, an SFS client attempts to contact the
       machine named by Location. If that machine exists, runs SFS, and can prove possession of a
       private key corresponding to HostID, then the client transparently creates the referenced directory
       in /sfs/andmountstheremoteﬁlesystemthere. Thisautomaticmountingguaranteeseveryone
       the right to create ﬁle systems. Given a host on the network, anyone can generate a public key,
       determine the corresponding HostID, run the SFS server software, and immediately reference that
       server by its self-certifying pathname on any client in the world.
        Ofcourse, no person will ever want to type a HostID—the hexadecimal representation of a 160-
       bit cryptographic hash. Instead, people can assign human-readable names to mount points through
       symbolic links. For instance, if Verisign acted as an SFS certiﬁcation authority, client administra-
       tors would likely create symbolic links from /verisign to the the mount point of that certiﬁca-
       tion authority—a pathname like /sfs/sfs.verisign.com:75b4e39a1b58c265f72d-
       ac35e7f940c6f093cb80.ThisﬁlesystemwouldinturncontainsymboliclinkstootherSFS
       mountpoints,sothat,forinstance,/verisign/mitmightpointto/sfs/sfs.mit.edu:0-
       f69f4a059c62b35f2bdac05feef610af052c42c.
        There is nothing magic about /verisign, however; it is just a symbolic link. Thus, SFS
       supports the use of certiﬁcation authorities, but neither relies on them for correct operation nor
       grants them any special privileges or status. In fact, organizations will probably install analogous
       symbolic links to their own servers in the root directories of their client machines. Individual
       users can create symbolic links for themselves in their home directories, perhaps after exchanging
       HostIDs in digitally signed email.
        Anyone with a universe-readable directory can create public links that others can make direct
       use of. As an example, /verisign/mit/lcs/dm/sfs-dist could be a path to the SFS
       distribution server. The certiﬁcation chain of such a pathname is always explicit. This is the server
                called dm/sfs-dist by the server called lcs by the server called mit by the server locally
                called /verisign. Despiteitsnotbeingofﬁciallycertiﬁed byVerisign,peoplecanstillreach the
                sfs-distserverandunderstandtheexactmeaningofthename.
                4 UsingSFS
                   Every SFS server, directory, and ﬁle has the same canonical pathname on every machine in the
                world. Thus, SFS provides a truly global ﬁle system. We discuss how users view SFS and what is
                involved in running an SFS server.
                4.1   Userview
                   Asdescribed in the previous section, users mount remote SFS ﬁle systems simply by referenc-
                ing self-certifying pathnames, either directly or through symbolic links. This mechanism makes
                every server accessible from any client machine, while always permitting cryptographic veriﬁca-
                tion of ﬁle system contents. A second, user-authentication mechanism is needed to access ﬁles
                that are not universe-readable, however. To accomplish this, SFS ﬁle servers have a local ﬁle,
                /etc/sfs users, analogous to the UNIX password ﬁle. sfs users maps user accounts to
                public keys. Users must register public keys in that ﬁle and prove possession of the corresponding
                private keys to access protected ﬁles on a server.
                   Once users are set up to access protected ﬁles, authentication happens transparently with ﬁle
                access. Every user of an SFS client machine runs an unprivileged authentication agent process
                withaccesstoprivatekeys. Whentheuserﬁrstreferencesaﬁlesystem,theclientsoftwarecontacts
                the agent, allowing it to authenticate the user to the remote server. The server sends the agent a
                challenge encrypted with the user’s public key; if the user agent successfully responds to this
                challenge, then access is allowed.
                   SFS servers base access control entirely on the identity of the users sending requests, not the
                machinesfromwhichrequestscome. SFSthushasnonotionofadministrativerealmforclientma-
                chines. Every client is identically conﬁgured, though individual users may conﬁgure their agents
                differently, and will certainly give their agents access to different private keys. This architecture
                guarantees users access to their ﬁles from any client machines they trust enough to use.
                4.2   SFSServers
                   Setting up an ordinary read-write SFS ﬁle server is fairly simple. One need only edit a few con-
                ﬁguration ﬁles such as sfs users, generate a public/private key pair for the server, and start the
                software. The new server will instantly be accessible on any client by its self-certifying pathname.
                One can notify users of a new server either by distributing its self-certifying pathname or placing
                a symbolic link to the pathname in an already reachable directory.
                   Some SFS servers, such as certiﬁcation authorities, may have very high integrity, availability,
                andperformanceneeds. Tomeettheseneeds,SFSallowsserverstoprovethecontentsofread-only
                ﬁle systems with precomputed digital signatures. This makes the amount of cryptographic com-
                putation required from read-only servers proportional to the ﬁle system’s size and rate of change
                rather than to the number of clients connecting. It also frees read-only servers from the need to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         keep any on-line copies of their private keys, which in turn allows read-only ﬁle systems to be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         replicated on untrusted machines.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.3                                                                                                                                                                                                          Example
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To illustrate the use of SFS across administrative realms, consider someone at a company col-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         laborating with a research project at a university. Such collaboration usually requires manual ﬁle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         transfers or remote logins over high-latency networks. With SFS, however, the university can
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         simply create an account for this user and put his public key in sfs users. The user can then
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         transparently access both the university’s ﬁle server and his company’s from the same local client
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         machine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Thereisnoneedtoreconﬁguretheclientormakeanyspecialarrangementstoaccesstheuniver-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sity’s ﬁle system. The user only needs to reference that ﬁle system to mount it. He can reference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         it through a symbolic link in an already reachable directory, or, if need be, he can create his own
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         link to it in a convenient location. Of course, the user will have to be authenticated separately to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         university and the company. However, his agent will handle this automatically.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5 SFSImplementation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TheSFSauthenticationprotocolistheheartoftheSFSnamingsystem. Wediscusstheprotocols
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         in detail, followed by a brief overview of the rest of the system.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.1                                                                                                                                                                                                          Authentication protocol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             The SFS authentication protocol was inspired by ssh [17], but with several ﬁxes [1] and mod-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         iﬁcations. It takes place in two stages: ﬁrst, authenticating the server to the client, and second,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         authenticating the user to the server, via the client. Three parties are involved: the SFS client
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         software C, the SFS server software S, and the user’s authentication agent A. The only current
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         implementation of the agent software holds all private keys on the same machine as C. Each user
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         can choose to run his own agent implementation, however. In the future, we envision dumb agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         that forward authentication requests to smart cards or even to other agents through encrypted login
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         connections, as is currently done with ssh.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Theﬁrst stage, shown in Figure 1, authenticates the server to the client, with the client initiating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the exchange. The goal is to agree on two client-chosen shared session keys, K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and K , to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      sc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            cs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         encrypt and protect the integrity of future data communication between client and server. The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         server sends the client two public keys, PK and PK : the ﬁrst, PK , is the long-lived key whose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         hash is in the pathname; the second, PK , is a temporary public key which changes every hour.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Useofatemporarypublickeyprovidesforward secrecy: even if SK , the long-livedsecret key, is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         compromised, old communication cannot be decrypted without breaking PK once SK has been
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         destroyed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             The host ID in this protocol is the hash obtained from the pathname by the client. The client
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sends the host ID and hostname to the server in its ﬁrst message so the same machine can serve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         multiple ﬁle systems without needing multiple IP addresses. The session ID, which is a hash of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the two session keys, the server’s temporary public key, and a server-chosen nonce N , is used
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         in future communication to identify the session. The plaintext echoing of N has no effect on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             host ID = fPK ;hostnameg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHA-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             session ID = fK ;K ;PK ;N g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cs                                                                                                                                                                                                sc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t                                                                                                                                                      0 SHA-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1. C ! S: hostname, host ID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2. S ! C: PK ;PK ;N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3. C ! S: ffK ;K g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              g                                                                                                                                                                                                        ; session ID;N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        cs                                                                                                                                                                                                sc PK PK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t                                                                                                                                                                                                   s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Figure 1. Key exchange and server authentication.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1. C ! A: hostname;host ID;session ID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2. A !C !                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S: PK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          cs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3. S !                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C !A:fN g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   u PK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          sc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4. A !C !                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S: fN ;hostname;hostID;session IDg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHA-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          cs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5. S !                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C: authentication number and remote credentials (UIDs, GIDs, etc.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          sc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Figure 2. Authenticating users.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         authentication proper, but can be used by the server to ﬁlter out certain denial-of-service attacks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         that wouldotherwiserequire signiﬁcantCPU timeduetotheexpenseofpublic-keydecryption[8].
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             After this initial stage, all trafﬁc from C to S is encrypted and authenticated with K , and all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         trafﬁc fromS toC withK . Theclientcanbesureitistalkingtotheserverasonlytheservercould
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         have decrypted these session keys. At this point, C can access S with anonymous permissions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             The second stage of the protocol authenticates the user to the server via the client, as shown in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Figure 2. This stage is necessary to access protected ﬁles. Here, PK is the user’s public key. The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         user’s agent A has a copy of the user’s private key, SK . N is a nonce, or challenge, chosen by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         u                                                                                                                                                                                             u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the server. Note that all messages between client and server are encrypted with one of the private
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         session keys K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and K .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      cs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             The authentication information in the last step of the user authentication is used to establish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         some reasonable correspondence between local and remote user and group IDs. In the ﬁrst step,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         note that the agent has access to both host name and host ID, allowing it to certify the host ID if
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         desired; however, the agent never sees either K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               or K , the session keys which are encrypting all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           cs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        sc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         client–server communication.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.2                                                                                                                                                                                                          Implementationdetails
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Both the SFS client and server are implemented at user-level, using NFS. Through a new asyn-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         chronous RPC library, fast encryption algorithms, aggressive on-disk client caching, and write-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         back caching, SFS performs comparably to Sun’s unencrypted NFS [13] on standard application
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         workloads, while additionally providing security and lease-based consistency. The speciﬁcs of
       our implementation are beyond the scope of this position paper; the system is described in detail
       in [10].
       6 Relatedwork
        SFS’s egalitarian namespace is similar in spirit to the SPKI/SDSI[3, 12] security infrastructure.
       In SPKI/SDSI, principalsare public keys, and everyprinciple acts as a certiﬁcation authority for its
       ownnamespace. SFS effectively treats ﬁle systems as public keys. However, because ﬁle systems
       inherently represent a namespace, SFS has no need for special certiﬁcation machinery—ordinary
       symbolic links already do the job. SDSI speciﬁes a few special roots, such as Verisign!!,
       which designate the same public key in every namespace. SFS can achieve a similar result by
       convention if clients all install symbolic links to certiﬁcation authorities in their local root direc-
       tories. We think such standard links should be determined by common practice, however, and not
       hard-coded into the ﬁle system.
        AFS [7, 14] is probably the most successful global ﬁle system to date. Like SFS, It provides
       a clean separation between the local and global namespace by mounting all remote ﬁle systems
       under a single directory, /afs. Unlike SFS, however, AFS client machines contain a ﬁxed list of
       available servers that only a privileged administrator can update. AFS uses Kerberos [15] shared
       secrets to protect network trafﬁc, and so cannot guarantee the integrity of ﬁle systems on which
       users do not have accounts. Though AFS can be compiled to encrypt network communications
       to servers on which users have accounts, the commercial binary distributions in widespread use
       do not offer any secrecy. DFS [9] is a second generation ﬁle system based on AFS, in which a
       centrally maintained database determines all available ﬁle systems.
        The Trufﬂes service [11] is an extension of the Ficus ﬁle system [6] to operate securely across
       the Internet. Trufﬂes provides ﬁne-grained access control with the interesting property that, policy
       permitting, a user can export ﬁles to any other user in the world, without the need to involve
       administrators. Unfortunately, the interface for such ﬁle sharing is somewhat clunky, and involves
       exchanging E-mail messages signed and encrypted with PEM. Trufﬂes also relies on centralized,
       hierarchical certiﬁcation authorities, naming users with X.500 distinguished names and requiring
       X.509certiﬁcates for all users and servers.
        WebFS[16]implementsanetworkﬁlesystemontopoftheHTTPprotocol. Speciﬁcally,WebFS
       uses the HTTP protocol to transfer data between user-level HTTP servers and an in-kernel client
       ﬁle system implementation. This allows the contents of existing URLs to be accessed through the
       ﬁle system. WebFSattemptstoprovideauthenticationandsecuritythroughaprotocollayeredover
       HTTP[2];authentication requires a hierarchy of certiﬁcation authorities.
       7 Conclusions
        SFSdemonstrates that a secure global ﬁle system with a uniform namespace does not need any
       centralized authority to manage that namespace. Through self-certifying pathnames, SFS permits
       arbitrary key management policies within a single namespace.
                   References
                    [1] Mart´ın Abadi. Explicit communicationrevisited: Two new examples. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineer-
                         ing, SE-23(3):185–186,March 1997.
                    [2] Eshwar Belani, Alex Thornton, and Min Zhou.           Authentication and security in WebFS.       from http://
                         now.cs.berkeley.edu/WebOS/security.ps,January1997.
                    [3] Carl M. Ellison, Bill Frantz, Butler Lampson, Ron Rivest, Brian M. Thomas, and Tatu Ylonen.¨      SPKIcertiﬁcate
                         documentation. Work in progress, from http://www.clark.net/pub/cme/html/spki.html.
                    [4] FIPS 180-1. Secure Hash Standard. U.S. Department of Commerce/N.I.S.T, National Tecnical Information
                         Service, Springﬁeld, VA, April 1995.
                    [5] Alan O. Freier, Philip Karlton, and Paul C. Kocher. The SSL protocol version 3.0. Internet draft (draft-freier-
                         ssl-version3-02.txt),Network Working Group, November1996. Work in progress.
                    [6] John S. Heidemann and Gerald J. Popek. File system development with stackable layers. ACM Transactions on
                         ComputerSystems, 12(1):58–89,February1994.
                    [7] John H. Howard, Michael L. Kazar, Sherri G. Menees, David A. Nichols, M. Satyanarayanan, Robert N. Side-
                         botham,andMichaelJ.West. Scaleandperformanceinadistributedﬁlesystem.ACMTransactionsonComputer
                         Systems, 6(1):51–81,February1988.
                    [8] Phil Karn and William Allen Simpson. The Photuris session key management protocol. Internet draft (draft-
                         simpson-photuris-15),Network Working Group, July 1997. Work in progress.
                    [9] Michael L. Kazar, Bruce W. Leverett, Owen T. Anderson, Vasilis Apostolides, Beth A. Bottos, Sailesh Chutani,
                         Craig F. Everhart, W. Anthony Mason, Shu-Tsui Tu, and Edward R. Zayas. DEcorum ﬁle system architectural
                         overview. In Proceedings of the Summer 1990 USENIX, pages 151–163.USENIX, 1990.
                   [10] David Mazieres.`   Security and decentralized control in the SFS distributed ﬁle system. Master’s thesis, Mas-
                         sachusetts Institute of Technology, August 1997.
                   [11] Peter Reiher, Jr. Thomas Page, Gerald Popek, Jeff Cook, and Stephen Crocker. Trufﬂes — a secure service for
                         widespread ﬁle sharing. In Proceedings of the PSRG Workshop on Network and Distributed System Security,
                         1993.
                   [12] Ronald L. Rivest and Butler Lampson. SDSI—a simple distributed security infrastructure. Working document
                         fromhttp://theory.lcs.mit.edu/˜cis/sdsi.html.
                   [13] Russel Sandberg, David Goldberg, Steve Kleiman, Dan Walsh, and Bob Lyon. Design and implementation of
                         the Sun network ﬁlesystem. In Proceedings of the Summer 1985 USENIX, pages 119–130.USENIX, 1985.
                   [14] M. Satyanarayanan. Scalable, secure and highly available ﬁle access in a distributed workstation environment.
                         IEEEComputer,pages9–21,May1990.
                   [15] J. G. Steiner, B. C. Neuman, and J. I. Schiller. Kerberos: An authentication service for open network systems.
                         In Proceedings of the Winter 1988 USENIX. USENIX, 1988.
                   [16] Amin M.Vahdat,Paul C. Eastha, and Thomas E. Anderson. WebFS: A global cache coherent ﬁle system. from
                         http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/˜vahdat/webfs/webfs.html,December1996.
                   [17] Tatu Ylonen.¨   SSH – secure login connections over the Internet. In Proceedings of the 6th USENIX Security
                         Symposium,pages37–42,July1996.
