THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 1
A Survey on Decentralized Identifiers and Verifiable
Credentials
Carlo Mazzocca , Abbas Acar , Selcuk Uluagac , Rebecca Montanari , Paolo Bellavista , Mauro Conti
Abstract—Digital identity has always been one of the key-
stones for implementing secure and trustworthy communications
among parties. The ever-evolving digital landscape has undergone
numerous technological transformations that have profoundly
reshaped digital identity management, leading to a major shift
from centralized to decentralized identity models. The latest stage
of this evolution is represented by the emerging paradigm of Self-
Sovereign Identity (SSI), which gives identity owners full control
over their data. SSI leverages Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)
and Verifiable Credentials (VCs), which have been recently stan-
dardized by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). These tech-
nologies have the potential to build more secure and decentralized
digital identity systems, significantly strengthening communica-
tion security in scenarios involving many distributed participants.
It is worth noting that use of DIDs and VCs is not limited to
individuals but extends to a wide range of entities including cloud,
edge, and Internet of Things (IoT) resources. However, due to
their novelty, existing literature lacks a comprehensive survey
on DIDs and VCs beyond the scope of SSI. This paper fills
this gap by providing a comprehensive overview of DIDs and
VCs from multiple perspectives. It identifies key security threats
and mitigation strategies, analyzes available implementations to
guide practitioners in making informed decisions, and reviews
the adoption of these technologies across various application
domains. Moreover, it also examines related regulations, projects,
and consortiums emerging worldwide. Finally, it discusses the
primary challenges hindering their real-world adoption and
outlines future research directions.
Index Terms—Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs), Verifiable Cre-
dentials (VCs), Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI), Digital Identity,
Decentralized Identity.
I. I NTRODUCTION
The recent proliferation of digital services accessible
through a network connection has led to an unprecedented
increase in the number of digital identities [1]. As a result,
the vast majority of the world’s population owns at least
one digital identity, which serves as the key to unlocking a
multitude of online capabilities and services. However, the
concept of digital identity extends far beyond the identification
of human beings [2]. With the widespread adoption of the
Manuscript received X, X; revised X, X.
Carlo Mazzocca is with the Department of Information and Electrical
Engineering and Applied Mathematics, University of Salerno, 84084 Fisciano,
Italy (e-mail: cmazzocca@unisa.it).
Rebecca Montanari and Paolo Bellavista are with the Department of Computer
Science and Engineering, University of Bologna, 40136 Bologna, Italy (e-
mail: name.surname@unibo.it).
Abbas Acar and Selcuk Uluagac are with the Cyber-Physical Systems
Security Lab, School of Computing and Information Science, Florida In-
ternational University, 33174 Miami, Florida, United States (e-mail: aacar,
suluagac@fiu.edu).
Mauro Conti is with the Department of Mathematics, University of Padua,
35131 Padua, Italy (e-mail: conti@math.unipd.it).
Internet of Things (IoT) and the power of the 5th generation
(5G) networks, coupled with the upcoming advent of the
6th generation (6G) networks, there has been a remarkable
increase in the number of connected devices [3]. These devices
require unique digital identities to enable their participation in
the digital ecosystem, such as establishing secure communi-
cations.
Digital identification has always been a primary concern,
as evidenced by the numerous solutions that have emerged
over the years. Indeed, the way an entity proves ownership
of a digital identity can be affected by a wide range of
vulnerabilities [4]. Centralized identity providers represent a
major weakness of traditional identification methods. Infor-
mation stored in centralized data repositories can potentially
lead to serious data breaches, resulting in significant loss of
personal data and damage to stakeholders’ reputations [5], [6].
In addition, centralized identity management systems rely on
specific identity service nodes, making them susceptible to the
single point of failure problem [7].
The advent of federated identity systems has addressed
some of these weaknesses along with scalability needs [8].
The principal advantage of this identity model lies in empow-
ering users to seamlessly access multiple services using the
same identity. This identification paradigm relies on mutual
trust among various parties, wherein verification is distributed
across all identification systems or entities that mutually accept
the standards employed by each system. In a typical federated
scenario, users authenticate themselves against a singular
authority, referred to as the identity provider, allowing them to
access all other applications on its behalf. Despite representing
an advance, federated identity still raises significant concerns
regarding user privacy. Specifically, this model hinges on a
certain level of trust in identity providers, and individuals
retain limited control over their data.
Therefore, the increasing use of online services, the growing
decentralization, as well as the rising awareness of the draw-
backs of traditional methods are paving the way to more secure
and privacy-preserving methods. In this direction, supported
by the current laws and regulations such as the European
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) [9], the concept
of Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI) [10] is gaining significant
interest from both the academic and industrial worlds.
SSI is based on the idea that an individual should have
full control over their information without being forced to
outsource data to any centralized authority or third party.
With an SSI, users can directly store their identity data and
determine how much of them they wish to share. In this way,
they can decide with whom they share their data. A funda-
arXiv:2402.02455v2  [cs.CR]  16 Apr 2025

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 2
TABLE I
SUMMARY OF SURVEYS IN THE FIELD .
Year Ref. Summary of the Work
2021 Cucko et al. [13] A systematic mapping study on SSI. The study outlines that DIDs and VCs are discussed in most papers
addressing SSI. The paper mainly provides insights into trends and demographics of SSI works.
2021 Soltani et al. [14] A survey on the SSI ecosystem. The work mainly reviews literature related to SSI. It reports a few available
implementations and briefly discusses related regulations in Europe and the United States.
2022 Bai et al. [15] A concise survey on the use of blockchain in SSI. The concept of DIDs and VCs is only presented as the
foundational technologies of SSI, without delving into an examination of relevant research papers.
2022 Schardong et al. [16]
A systematic review and mapping of theoretical and practical advances in SSI. The paper comprehensively
discusses how DIDs and VCs can be employed in SSI systems, and also considers a few other application
domains.
2023 Ernstberger et al.
[17]
A systematization of knowledge on data sovereignty, with a focus on decentralized identity, decentralized
access control, and policy-compliant decentralized computation. The paper also outlines key security and
privacy properties, along with open challenges in the field.
2024 Krul et al. [18] A systemization of knowledge based on trust requirements and assumptions of SSI elements. The work
identifies threats in SSI, potential mitigation, available implementations, and some challenges.
2024 Tan et al. [19] A systematic review and analysis of SSI solutions based on a set of research questions. The paper reports
the main regulations and policies across Europe and the U.S., as well as a few open challenges.
2024 Satybaldy et al. [20] A systematic literature review on SSI systems with particular emphasis on the main open challenges. It
also reports a few available implementations.
Now Our Survey
A comprehensive survey on DIDs and VCs, covering all key aspects, including threats and mitigations,
primary implementations, applications across diverse domains, and emerging regulations/initiatives pro-
posed by governments and organizations.
TABLE II
COMPARISON OF SURVEYS IN THE FIELD . LEGEND : INCLUDED ,G #PARTIALLY INCLUDED ,# NOT INCLUDED .
Year Reference Literature
Review on SSI
Literature Review
on Other Applications
Threats &
Mitigation
Available
Implementations
Regulations, Projects
& Organizations
Challenges &
Future Directions
2021 Cucko et al. [13] # # # # # G #
2021 Soltani et al. [14]  G # # G # G # G #
2022 Bai et al. [15] # # # # # G #
2022 Schardong et al. [16]  # # # # G #
2023 Ernstberger et al. [17] G # # G #  #  
2024 Krul et al. [18]  #   #  
2024 Tan et al. [19] G # G # # # G # G #
2024 Satybaldy al. [20] G # G # # G # #  
Now Our Survey       
mental achievement of SSI is the ability for users to present
their trusted credentials to a third party without needing an
intermediary. This process is enabled through the ownership
and control of Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) [11], which
define a globally unique and cryptographic identifier scheme.
Each DID is associated with a DID Document, containing
publicly available information (e.g., public keys), stored on
shared and verifiable data sources such as Distributed Ledger
Technologies (DLTs). By presenting a DID, an individual can
obtain Verifiable Credentials (VCs) [12]. These VCs include
claims regarding the DID that can be verified by an external
party without requiring direct engagement with the VC issuer.
For example, an individual applying for a job online could
present a digitally signed credential from their university, at-
testing to their acquisition of a bachelor’s degree and residency
in the relevant country in which they are applying.
Consequently, such technologies can play a key role in
establishing trust and secure communications among peers
through digital identities [21], encompassing both human and
non-human entities such as IoT devices. DIDs and VCs have
been proposed as valuable solutions to enhance privacy and
security in several application domains (e.g., smart transporta-
tion and smart healthcare). These standards can be extended
to anyone and anything, including cloud, edge, and IoT re-
sources. Notably, numerous implementations supporting these
technologies have recently been developed and made avail-
able by different organizations, including major companies
in the industry, such as Microsoft. Additionally, government
institutions worldwide have been actively working to promote
the widespread adoption of DIDs and VCs. For instance,
in May 2024, the European Union introduced Regulation
2024/1183 [22], establishing the European Digital Identity
Framework. This initiative seeks to provide European citizens
with secure access to online and offline public and private
services throughout Europe via an SSI system, reflecting a
significant stride toward the advancement of digital identity
solutions.
A. Comparison with Related Surveys
Interest in DIDs and VCs has rapidly grown worldwide,
drawing significant attention from academia, industry, govern-
ments, and standardization bodies. This trend is fueled by the
increasing number of research papers and initiatives emerging
in recent years. However, most existing surveys primarily
focus on the role of DIDs and VCs within SSI ecosystems,
often overlooking their wider applications. In contrast, this
survey aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the
use of these technologies. Table I briefly summarizes key

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 3
contributions of relevant surveys in the field, while Table II
presents a comparative analysis, highlighting their scope and
focus. INCLUDED ( ) means that the paper thoroughly covers
the topic in question, while PARTIALLY INCLUDED (G #)
indicates that the paper covers the topic to some extent but
not in full depth.
Literature Review on SSI and Other Applications. This
survey offers a comprehensive overview of how DIDs and VCs
are employed across various areas, such as smart transportation
and industry. Other surveys primarily focus on SSI [16]
or narrow their scope to subtopics [14], [18], [20]. Beyond
reviewing papers on SSI, Soltani et al. [14] also consider a
few other application domains, such as healthcare and IoT. Tan
et al. [19] cover a broader range of fields but their literature
review does not emphasize how DIDs and VCs are used in
these domains.
Threats & Mitigation. Threat and mitigation strategies are
often overlooked in existing literature. Our survey is one of
the few to identify threats related to DIDs and VCs, while also
proposing potential mitigation strategies. Similar to our work,
Krul et al. [18] discuss threats and mitigation in SSI systems,
while Ernstberger et al. [17] present a concise threat model
for SSI.
Available Implementations. This survey provides practical
guidance for developers by identifying the most suitable solu-
tions for their needs, unlike other works that primarily report
frameworks and some of their features. Krul et al. [18] list the
main industrial solutions and how they support identification,
credential exchange, and some security and privacy properties.
Ernstberger et al. [17] offer tabular comparisons of supported
functionalities, while other studies provide a brief overview of
a few frameworks [14], [20].
Regulations, Projects & Organizations. A key contribution
of our work is an extensive review of regulations, projects,
and organizations emerging worldwide. Only Tan et al. [19]
and Soltani et al. [14] conduct similar research; however, their
studies are limited to the main initiatives in Europe and the
United States.
Challenges & Future Directions. While almost all related
works discuss challenges and future directions, most either
address them briefly or focus on sub-fields. For instance,
Ernstberger et al. [17] and Krul et al. [18] focus on privacy
and security challenges. Our survey identifies a wide range
of challenges and future research directions specific to DIDs
and VCs. Satybaldy et al. [20] provide the most comprehensive
analysis of SSI challenges but they only present a few research
directions.
B. Contributions
Related surveys primarily focus on how DIDs and VCs
have been employed in SSI systems, often overlooking critical
areas such as security, practical implementations, alternative
applications, and regulations. This survey aims to bridge these
gaps by providing an in-depth examination of DIDs and
VCs. It covers a wide range of topics, including foundational
concepts, security threats, potential mitigation, major available
A Survey on
Decentralized
Identifiers
and
Verifiable
Credentials
Section - I
Introduction
Section - II
Fundamentals of
Digital Identity
Section - III
Threats & Mitigation 
Strategies
Section - IV
Implementations
Section - VI
Regulations, Projects &
Organizations
 Sec - I(A): Comparison with Related Surveys
 Sec - I(B): Contributions
 Sec - I(C): Organization
 Sec - II(A): Digital Identity Evolution
 Sec - II(B): Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)
 Sec - II(C): Verifiable Credentials (VCs)
 Sec - II(D): Verifiable Data Registry (VDR)
 Sec - IV(A): DIDKit
 Sec - IV(B): IOTA Identity Framework
 Sec - IV(C): Hyperledger Aries
 Sec - IV(D): Microsoft Entra Wallet Library
 Sec - IV(E): Veramo
 Sec - IV(F): Lessons Learned
 Sec - V(A): Smart Transportation
 Sec - V(B): Smart Healthcare
 Sec - V(C): Industry
 Sec - V(D): Other Smart Services
 Sec - V(E): Identity Management
 Sec - V(F): Lessons Learned
 Sec - VI(A): Europe
 Sec - VI(B): North America
 Sec - VI(C): South America
 Sec - VI(D): Africa
 Sec - VI(E): Australia and Oceania
 Sec - VI(F): Lessons Learned
Section - VIII
Conclusions
Section - VII
Challenges & Future
Research Directions
Section - V
Applications
 Sec - VII(A): Standardization
 Sec - VII(B): Scalability
 Sec - VII(C): Usability
 Sec - VII(D): Integration
 Sec - VII(E): Security and Privacy
 Sec - III(A): Key and Credential Compromise
 Sec - III(B): Credential Validity
 Sec - III(C): Privacy
 Sec - III(D): Man-in-the-Middle
Fig. 1. Illustrative organization of the survey.
implementations, application domains, as well as challenges
and emerging research directions. We believe that this paper
offers a comprehensive resource for readers aiming to gain
thorough understanding of these emerging technologies. The
key contributions of our work can be summarized as follows:
• We identify the key threats associated with DIDs and
VCs and propose potential mitigation strategies to address
them.
• We conduct a comparative analysis of the main com-
mercial implementations available, aiding developers in
making informed decisions tailored for their specific
needs.
• We review how DIDs and VCs have been employed in
research papers across diverse applications, which goes
beyond SSI systems.
• We report and discuss a wide array of global initiatives,
regulations, and projects that have emerged, providing
valuable insights into the potential of these technologies
and how they have been adopted worldwide.
• We identify and highlight critical challenges that are
specific to DIDs and VCs. Moreover, we point out under-
explored areas that warrant further investigation, outlining
promising research directions.

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 4
IANA
1988
ICANN
1998
Microsoft 
Passaport
1999
SUN Free
Alliance
2001
IIW
OpenID
2005
OpenID
2.0
2006
OAuth
2010
SSI
2012
FIDO
2013
OpenID
Connect
2014
DID
VC
2019
Fig. 2. Timeline of digital identity evolution.
C. Organization
Figure 1 illustrates the structure of this survey, the remain-
der of this paper is organized as follows. Section II provides
the foundation of digital identities by outlining their evolution
over time, with particular focus on DIDs and VCs. Section III
identifies key security threats associated with DIDs and VCs. It
also discusses potential mitigation strategies, which are crucial
for ensuring the secure adoption of these technologies. Section
IV shifts from theoretical aspects to practical considerations,
exploring the spectrum of main available implementations.
This section helps developers in selecting the most suitable
solution based on their specific needs. Section V links the
technical and practical aspects by reviewing the various appli-
cations of DIDs and VCs across different research domains,
demonstrating their real-world impact and versatility. Sec-
tion VI examines the broader ecosystem by offering insights
into global regulations, projects, and organizations. Section
VII identifies existing challenges that hinder the widespread
adoption of these technologies and highlights opportunities for
future research, bridging current limitations with potential ad-
vancements. Finally, Section VIII summarizes the key insights
from the survey and provides concluding remarks. Table III
reports a list of abbreviations frequently used throughout the
paper.
II. F UNDAMENTALS OF DIGITAL IDENTITY
This section provides an overview of the development of
digital identities, with a focus on the standards and technolo-
gies that enable SSI systems.
A. Digital Identity Evolution
The evolution of digital identity has undergone many eras,
which have gradually shifted digital identification from cen-
tralized to decentralized identity models [23]. Figure 2 depicts
this timeline evolution.
Centralized Identity. In centralized identity systems, identi-
ties are managed by a central authority [24]. One of the earliest
forms of digital identity dates back to 1988 when the Internet
Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) was responsible for
determining the validity of IP addresses. Later, the scientific
community witnessed the emergence of organizations such as
the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
(ICANN), which arbitrates the validity of domain names.
TABLE III
LIST OF THE ACRONYMS FREQUENTLY USED IN THIS ARTICLE .
Acronym Description
ABAC Attribute-based Access Control
CID Content Identifier
DAG Direct Acyclic Graph
DID Decentralized Identifier
DHS Department of Homeland Security
DIACC Digital Identity and Authentication Council of Canada
DLT Distributed Ledger Technology
DT Digital Twin
eIDAS Electronic Identification and Trust Services
EBSI European Blockchain Services Infrastructure
EU European Union
EUDIW European Digital Wallet
EV Electric Vehicle
FL Federated Learning
FIDO Fast IDentity Online
5G 5th Generation Mobile Networks
GDPR General Data Protection Regulation
IIoT Industrial Internet of Things
IoMT Internet of Medical Things
IoT Internet of Things
IoV Internet of Vehicles
IPFS Internet Planetary File System
ML Machine Learning
OAuth Open Authorization
OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer
SSI Self-Sovereign Identity
SSO Single-Sign On
U.S. United States
VC Verifiable Credential
VDR Verifiable Data Registry
VIN Vehicle Identification Number
V2X Vehicle-to-anything
V2V Vehicle-to-vehicle
VP Verifiable Presentation
W3C World Wide Web Consortium
ZKP Zero-Knowledge Proof
Centralized identity management systems rely on usernames
and passwords for authentication, which raises several con-
cerns [25], as users often prioritize simplicity over security
when choosing their credentials. This makes them vulnerable
to attacks such as dictionary or phishing attacks. Moreover,
individuals usually have as many identities as the number of
services, resulting in a fragmented identity landscape.
Centralized models suffer from a single point of failure
and expose user-related information to potential risks, whether
from centralized authorities or through data breaches [26],
[27]. Consequently, this identity model also poses challenges
for service providers [28], requiring substantial investments to
securely store, preserve, and safeguard user data in compliance

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 5
DID Controller
DIDDID Subject
DID Document
DID URL
Verifiable Data Registry
recorded onrefers to
controls
resolves to
refers/deferences to
Fig. 3. Overview of a DID-based architecture and the relationship of the
main components.
with existing regulations.
Federated Identity. Federated identity represents the second
era of digital identification, addressing some of the challenges
associated with centralized identification. It allows users to
utilize the same identity across multiple sites and applica-
tions [29]. By logging in once, users can access various
resources without creating separate accounts for each system.
This approach relies on trusted relationships between differ-
ent parties to ensure secure authentication and authorization.
Indeed, federations are achieved by distributing identification
and verification components across systems or by mutually
accepting shared standards between them.
One of the pioneers in proposing federated identity was
Microsoft with its Passport program, which allowed users
to access different websites with a single login. In 2001,
Sun Microsystems formed the Liberty Alliance to develop
open standards for federated identity and identity-based web
services. Today, major companies like Google and Meta
offer Single Sign-On (SSO) support [30]. A typical federated
scenario involves a user authenticating through an identity
provider (e.g., Google or Meta identity providers) and then
gaining access to other applications on its behalf.
While federated models reduce identity fragmentation, they
still pose privacy concerns. Despite a decrease in the num-
ber of centralized entities involved, users must trust identity
providers, which remain centralized, offering limited control
over user data. Furthermore, federated identity relies on mutual
recognition between two or more parties, which may be
increasingly complex at scale [31].
User-centric Identity. The demand for greater control over
personal data has given rise to user-centric identity. This model
empowers individuals to manage their identities independently
or across multiple authorities without relying on centralized
federations [32], [33]. Users retain autonomy and must ex-
plicitly grant consent before sharing or modifying their data,
enhancing privacy and security.
In 2005, the Identity Commons, an influential American
organization with a mission to support, facilitate, and promote
the creation of an open identity layer for the Internet, played
a pivotal role in advocating for the Internet Identity Workshop
(IIW). The IIW places users at the core of identity manage-
ment, aiming to empower individuals in shaping their online
identities. This lead to numerous projects embodying user-
centric principles, including OpenID, OpenID 2.0, OpenID
Connect (OIDC), Open Authorization (OAuth), and Fast IDen-
tity Online (FIDO) [33]–[35]. User-centric approaches enable
individuals to control their data through various authenticators
(e.g., JSON Web Tokens) and certificates issued by different
did:example:123456789abcdefghi
{
  "@context": [
   "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
   "https://w3id.org/security/suites/ed25519-2020/v1"
]
"id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
"authentication": [{  
  "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
  "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2020",
  "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
  "publicKeyMultibase": "zH3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZp..."
  }]
}
Fig. 4. An example of a DID and its DID Document.
service providers, all securely stored on their devices.
Despite the notable progress, user-centric identity systems
still depend on trust relationships with service providers and
authorities, requiring users to trust these entities to handle their
information responsibly and not misuse it [36].
Self-Sovereign Identity. SSI represents the last era in the long
and evolving journey of digital identity evolution. Introduced
in 2012, this concept marks a significant advancement over
user-centric identity systems [37].
In contrast to conventional identity management systems,
where the service provider controls the identity model, SSI
places the individual at the core. Users are granted full control
over their identities, enabling them to decide when, if, and
how they wish to disclose or modify their data. SSI relies on
decentralized infrastructure and cutting-edge technologies such
as DLTs, DIDs, and VCs. By leveraging DLTs likeblockchain,
SSI eliminates the need for central authorities [38], fostering
a trustless environment where users can interact with services
and applications without exposing their sensitive information
to a single entity [39]. This decentralized architecture ensures
that data is cryptographically secured and verifiable, delivering
transparency and immutability for identity management.
In an SSI ecosystem, individuals are uniquely identified
by DID, linked to a key pair controlled by the user. The
public key bound to the identifier is usually shared on a DLT,
allowing users to verify identities independently [10]. Users
prove attributes or claims through VCs, which can be cryp-
tographically verified by any other parties without interacting
with the issuing centralized authority. These credentials are
typically transmitted off-chain due to privacy considerations,
with verification depending on publicly available information
associated with the identifier and credential issuer.
B. Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)
DIDs have emerged as a groundbreaking digital identifier
widely embraced within decentralized identity systems. They
were formalized and standardized by the World Wide Web
Consortium (W3C) [40] after substantial collaborative efforts
from 2017 to 2019, culminating in the publication of the DID
specification as an official W3C Recommendation. Figure 3
provides an overview of the major components of a DID-based
architecture.

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 6
Architecture. A DID uniquely identifies a DID Subject, which
can be either a human or non-human entity. It consists of
three essential components: the Uniform Resource Identifier,
the identifier for the specific DID method, and the method-
specific identifier for the DID. The DID method specifies the
processes for creating, resolving, updating, and deactivating
DIDs and DID Documents. The DID URL extends a basic
DID by including additional URI components like path, query,
and fragment, enabling precise resource location within a DID
Document or an external resource.
Each DID resolves to a DID Document, a machine-readable
JSON-LD document containing information about the DID
Subject, such as cryptographic public keys, service endpoints,
authentication parameters, timestamps, and additional meta-
data. DIDs are consistent and permanent, offering reliable
identification even as individuals switch service providers
or platforms. Figure 4 shows an example of DID and its
corresponding DID Document.
DIDs are designed to eliminate reliance on centralized
identity providers, fostering the adoption of SSI systems.
Users have control and ownership over their DIDs, which
can be created and managed by themselves. An entity can
prove the ownership of a DID by leveraging the private key
corresponding to the public key in the DID document. The
verifier can access DID Document, which is publicly available
through a Verifiable Data Registry (VDR).
The DID Controller is the entity authorized to modify the
DID Document. A DID might have multiple controllers or may
coincide with the DID Subject, aligning with the principles
of the SSI paradigm. DIDs are resolved through a universal
resolver [41] that supports multiple DID systems. A DID
system needs to implement a DID adapter to be compatible
with the universal resolver, functioning as an interface between
system-specific DID methods and the universal resolver.
Types of DIDs. The DID specification [42] introduces three
types of DIDs:
• Anywise DIDs can be utilized with an unspecified num-
ber of parties, typically strangers. They allow broad usage
without limiting the number of relationships that can be
established.
• Pairwise DIDs are only known by their subject and
one other party, such as a service provider. Pairwise
DIDs address privacy concerns by ensuring that each
relationship has a unique DID, minimizing the risk of
correlation between different interactions.
• N-wise DIDs are designed to be known by strictly N
parties, including the subject. They encompass pairwise
DIDs as a special case when N equals 2.
Communication Protocols. The growing interest in DID has
also led to the development of DID-based communication
protocols [43], [44], enabling private and secure communi-
cation between two or more SSI entities. These protocols
rely on DIDs and facilitate mutual authentication between the
participating parties.
The DID Auth protocol allows an identity owner to use
their client application, such as a mobile device or browser,
to prove their control over a DID to a service provider. This
{
  "@context": [
    "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
    "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/examples/v1"
  ],
  "id": "http://example.edu/credentials/1872",
  "type": ["VerifiableCredential", "AlumniCredential"],
  "issuer": "https://example.edu/issuers/565049",
  "issuanceDate": "2010-01-01T19:23:24Z",
    "credentialSubject": {
    "id": "did:example:ebfeb1f712ebc6f1c276e12ec21",
    "alumniOf": {
      "id": "did:example:c276e12ec21ebfeb1f712ebc6f1",
      "name": [{
        "value": "Example University",
        "lang": "en"
      }, {
        "value": "Esempio di Università",
        "lang": "it"
      }]
    }
  },
  "proof": {
    "type": "RsaSignature2018",
    "created": "2017-06-18T21:19:10Z",
    "proofPurpose": "assertionMethod",
    "verificationMethod":
"https://example.edu/issuers/565049#key-1",
    "jws":
"eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImI2NCI6ZmFsc2UsImNyaXQiOlsiYjY0..."
  }
}
Fig. 5. Example of a VC allowing alumni of Example University to receive
discounts on season tickets for sporting events.
Issuer VerifierHolder
VDR
Issue VC Send VP
Verify Identifiers
and use Schemas
Register Identifiers
and use Schemas
Verifiy Identifiers
and Schemas
3 4
12 5
Fig. 6. Overview of VC main actors.
protocol utilizes a challenge-response cycle that can be cus-
tomized based on the specific circumstance, potentially replac-
ing traditional forms authentication methods like usernames
and passwords, establishing an authenticated communication
channel between the identity owner and the service provider.
C. Verifiable Credentials (VCs)
VC is a specification developed by the W3C to create an in-
teroperable data structure capable of representing claims (e.g.,
properties or attributes) that are cryptographically verifiable
and tamper-proof. VCs are designed to seamlessly operate
across different platforms and applications. Individuals can
store VCs in their digital wallet and carry them anywhere
while ensuring they remain verifiable. This flexibility and
convenience allow users to present their credentials efficiently.
Figure 5 shows an example of VC that enables all alumni of
”Example University” to receive a discount on season tickets
to sporting events.
Main Actors. In the VC ecosystem, a holder refers to an entity
exercising control over one or more VCs. These credentials
are issued by trusted entities such as government agencies or

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 7
banks. A verifier is an entity, such as an e-commerce website,
that requires valid credentials to offer a service. Figure 6
illustrates the key roles within the ecosystem of VCs.
To facilitate the creation and verification of identifiers,
keys, verifiable credentials schema, and other relevant data
essential for using VCs, are shared through a VDR, which
acts as a mediator within the ecosystem. Since credentials
often contain sensitive information, they are typically shared
off-chain instead of being stored on a VDR or a centralized
system. This approach minimizes the risk of data exposure by
keeping sensitive information out of public or easily accessible
systems, ensuring greater privacy and security for the user.
Structure of VCs. Similar to DIDs, VCs also consist of sev-
eral elements, including the Subject URI, the URI of the issuer
responsible for the claims, and URIs that uniquely identify the
credential. The Subject URI is used to retrieve the subject’s
public key, ensuring verification of the credential’s ownership.
Meanwhile, the issuer URI is essential for obtaining their
public key and verifying that the credential originates from
a trusted entity. Notably, the URI can also take the form of a
DID.
Furthermore, VCs include claim expiration conditions and
cryptographic signatures, ensuring that the credential validity
is maintained over time and that the integrity of the informa-
tion is secured through cryptographic verification.
Verifiable Presentation. The W3C Verifiable Credentials
Working Group has also defined the concept of Verifiable Pre-
sentations (VPs), which specify the methods for signing and
presenting VCs by the holder. VCs or VPs can be described
using JSON-LD, JSON, or JSON Web Token formats. Figure
7 shows a VP obtained from the VC of the previous example.
The standard related to expressing verifiable information on
the Web has been published to provide a regulation spec-
ification for expressing credentials on the Internet ensuring
that they are machine-verifiable, respect privacy, and, most
importantly, are cryptographically secure.
Selective Disclosure. To grant individuals full control over
their data, VCs allow selectively disclosing a subset of the
information contained with them. Over the years, various
methods for selective disclosure have been developed [45],
[46]. They are usually categorized into mono claims, hashed
values, Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKP), and selective disclo-
sure signatures. The current state-of-the-art solution is SD-
JWT [47], which enhances privacy by replacing plaintext
claims with digests of their salted values. When the holder
discloses specific information, they share the original claim
and the corresponding salt.
D. Verifiable Data Registry (VDR)
In the context of DIDs and VCs, a VDR plays a crucial
role in creating, managing, and verifying identifiers, keys,
credential schema, and other relevant data required to utilize
these decentralized identity technologies [48].
Role of VDR in SSI. A VDR acts as a trusted interme-
diary within the ecosystem of DIDs and VCs, serving as
a repository or database that stores and provides access to
{
  "@context": [
    "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
    "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/examples/v1"
  ],
  "type": "VerifiablePresentation",
  "verifiableCredential": [{
    "@context": [
      "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
      "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/examples/v1"
    ],
    "id": "http://example.edu/credentials/1872",
    "type": ["VerifiableCredential", "AlumniCredential"],
    "issuer": "https://example.edu/issuers/565049",
    "issuanceDate": "2010-01-01T19:23:24Z",
    "credentialSubject": {
      "id": "did:example:ebfeb1f712ebc6f1c276e12ec21",
      "alumniOf": {
        "id": "did:example:c276e12ec21ebfeb1f712ebc6f1",
        "name": [{"value": "Example University", "lang": "en"}, 
          {"value": "Exemple d'Université", "lang": "fr"}]
      }
    },
    "proof": {
      "type": "RsaSignature2018",
      "created": "2017-06-18T21:19:10Z",
      "proofPurpose": "assertionMethod",
      "verificationMethod": "https://example.edu/issuers/565049#key-1",
      "jws": "eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImI2NCI6ZmFsc2UsImNyaXQiOlsiYjY0..."
    }
  }],
  "proof": {
    "type": "RsaSignature2018",
    "created": "2018-09-14T21:19:10Z",
    "proofPurpose": "authentication",
    "verificationMethod": "did:example:ebfeb1f712ebc6f1c276e12ec21#keys-1",
    "challenge": "1f44d55f-f161-4938-a659-f8026467f126",
    "domain": "4jt78h47fh47",
    "jws": "eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImI2NCI6ZmFsc2UsImNyaXQiOlsiYjY0..."
  }
}
Fig. 7. Example of a VP derived from the VC for alumni of Example
University.
essential information. This includes DID Documents, which
contain details such as cryptographic public keys, service end-
points, authentication parameters, timestamps, and metadata.
The VDR ensures the availability and accessibility of these
documents to support the resolution and verification processes.
When verifiers need to verify a DID or a VC, they retrieve
the relevant information from the VDR. By accessing the
public information stored in the registry, they can validate
the authenticity, integrity, and validity of the DIDs and VCs
involved in the verification process, thereby establishing trust
and confidence in the decentralized identity ecosystem.
The VDR also manages and maintains the lifecycle of
DIDs and VCs. It facilitates the creation, registration, and
revocation of DIDs and VCs, acting as a centralized point
of control or coordination. For example, when an entity wants
to create a new DID or issue a new VC, it interacts with
the VDR to ensure proper registration and management of the
associated information. Similarly, when a DID or VC needs
to be revoked or updated, the VDR can handle the necessary
operations to reflect the changes in the system. Additionally,
the VDR supports interoperability and standardization within
the decentralized identity ecosystem by enforcing consistent
data formats, validation rules, and data-sharing protocols.
This promotes compatibility and seamless integration across
different DID methods, VC issuers, and verifiers.
Implementations. Currently, the W3C’s standards do not
specify how the VDR should be implemented. Most of the
proposed approaches are based on DLTs, with blockchain

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 8
standing out as the most popular type of DLT [49]. Blockchain
is characterized by interconnected blocks, each referencing to
the previous block hash, forming a secure chain [50]. Any
tampering would lead to a different hash that can be easily
detected. This feature is fundamental for the secure sharing
of information such as DID Documents. Additionally, many
blockchains also support smart contracts [51], which are self-
executing programs stored directly on the blockchain and trig-
gered when specific conditions are met. This inherent design
ensures fault tolerance, tamper-proofing, and traceability. In
the subsequent sections, we will show how these features make
smart contracts a valuable technology in various application
domains utilizing DIDs and VCs.
Alternative solutions have also emerged. For example,
Information-Centric Networking (ICN) is a novel networking
paradigm that can be adopted to implement the registry [52].
Users interact with edge nodes to manage DIDs through HTTP
APIs, which are then translated into appropriate ICN flows.
III. T HREATS & M ITIGATION STRATEGIES
Although DIDs and VCs offer significant security and pri-
vacy benefits, they are not without vulnerabilities. This section
outlines the major threats associated with these technologies
and presents potential strategies for mitigation.
A. Key and Credential Compromise
Threat 1 : An adversary may perform various attacks, such
as phishing, malware, or direct key theft, to compromise the
private key associated with a DID or gain unauthorized access
to credentials, impersonating the legitimate identity owner.
Mitigation: Mitigating the risks of key and credential com-
promise requires a multi-faceted approach. Below are some
effective strategies:
• Key Rotation: Regularly rotating keys and revoking old
ones minimizes the damage caused by a potential com-
promise.
• Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA): Implementing MFA
enhances the security of wallet access by protecting keys
and credentials. MFA can also require the presentation
of the same credential from multiple devices, ensuring
that compromising a single wallet does not allow the
adversary to use the credential as their own.
• Hardware Security Modules (HSMs): Storing private keys
in secure hardware modules protects them from unautho-
rized access.
• Trusted Third Party Key Recovery: Keys can be securely
backed up and recovered through trusted third parties
[53], using escrow services to safeguard against key loss.
Threat 2: A malicious user may collude with others or steal
a valid credential from a legitimate user, presenting it to a
verifier and acting on behalf of the holder.
Mitigation: This threat can be mitigated by associating the
VC and their presentation with the identity owner, preventing
illegitimate transfers. The holder identifier, such as a DID, is
included in the VC, whose immutability prevents any alter-
ation. To prove ownership over the credential, the presenter
16KB
 Revoked Credentials
ZLIB Compression
135 bytes
Fig. 8. Revocation List 2020.
must demonstrate knowledge of the identity owner’s private
key, which is only known by the holder.
Threat 3: An attacker may attempt to gain access to a service
by forging a legitimate VC or presenting a credential issued
by an entity that lacks the authority to issue VCs.
Mitigation: Credentials must be digitally signed by the issuer,
preventing adversaries from forging VCs as they do not know
the issuer’s private key. Each credential must include an issuer
identifier to ensure that a trusted and recognized authority has
certified the presented claims. Additionally, a secure register
should be maintained to identify all trustworthy issuers and
the claims they are authorized to certify.
B. Credential Validity
Threat 4 : Although always verifiable, the validity of VCs
can change over time due to loss of privileges or expiration.
Consequently, a verifier must verify the validity of a credential
before accepting it.
Mitigation: The issuer can specify the validity period within
the credential itself, enabling the verifier to check whether the
credential is still valid.
However, this approach does not account for scenarios
where issuers revoke VCs due to a holder’s loss of privileges.
This concern can be addressed using revocation mechanisms
commonly employed for PKI certificates [54], such as On-
line Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) [55] and Certificate
Revocation Lists (CRLs) [56]. The W3C also proposed the
revocation bitstring ”Revocation List 2020” [57], where each
bit corresponds to an index contained in the VCs. Figure 8
provides an illustrative overview of Revocation List 2020.
When a bit is set to 1, the corresponding VC is revoked;
otherwise, it remains valid. Since most credentials are ex-
pected to remain valid, long stretches of bits often retain
identical values. This property makes the bitstring amenable to
compression techniques like ZLIB [58], which can reduce its
size. Furthermore, concerns about the size of data structures
for managing revocation have inspired novel approaches that
minimize storage and network requirements [59].
C. Privacy
Threat 5: A VC may contain more claims than necessary for
accessing a specific service. Consequently, a service provider

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 9
TABLE IV
COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF MAIN IMPLEMENTATIONS OF DID S AND VCS. LEGEND :↑ HIGH ,≈ MEDIUM ,↓ LOW, - NOT SPECIFIED .
Library DIDKit IOTA Identity
Framework
Hyperledger
Aries
Microsoft Entra
Wallet Veramo
Main Target Platform Multi-platforms Multi-platforms/IoT Devices Multi-platforms Mobile Applications Multi-platforms
Programming Language Rust, C, Java, Android,
Python, JavaScript Rust, Node.js Python, JavaScript, Go, .NET Android, iOS JavaScript
W3C Compliance ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Credential Format JSON-LD/JWT JWT JSON-LD JWT JSON-LD/JWT
Key & Wallet Management - Stronghold - Azure Key Vault -
Verifiable Proof Types RSA/EdDSA/ECDSA/
EIP712/JWS2020 EdDSA/ECDSA BBS+/EdDSA EdDSA/ES256K/ECDSA P-256 EdDSA, ECDH, ECDSA
Selective Disclosure SD-JWT SD-JWT/ZKSD SD-JWT SD-JWT SD-JWT Through
Plugin Interface
Verifiable Data Registry - Tangle Indy Ledger - -
Learning Curve ↓ ≈ ↑ ≈ ↓
Open Source ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
might acquire more information than required. Malicious ser-
vice providers could exploit personal data for financial gain
through individual profiling, while honest service providers
might inadvertently elevate privacy loss risks.
Mitigation: Individuals should provide only the information
needed to access the intended service by removing unnec-
essary claims from a VC when generating the presentation.
This can be achieved through employing selective disclosure
[45], [46], which allows presenting only a subset of claims
contained in a VC. Selective disclosure techniques enable veri-
fying the authenticity of the revealed claims without accessing
the entire credential.
Threat 6 : Selective disclosure techniques could still allow
service providers to link claims to the same individual across
subsequent presentations or collude with other providers [18].
Mitigation: Using Pairwise DIDs can help mitigate this risk
by reducing the likelihood of correlation, though it does
not entirely prevent linkage across multiple presentations. To
further reduce the risk, VCs should avoid including persistent
user identifiers, such as DIDs, unless necessary for issuer iden-
tification. While complete unlinkability might be ideal in some
scenarios, it is not always appropriate. For instance, when a
credential is used for authentication, the service provider must
recognize repeat presentations to prevent Sybil attacks. Linked
unlinkability approaches [60] can address this, allowing the
identification of repeat presentations while minimizing the risk
of correlation across different providers.
Threat 7 : The holder of a VC may not have permission to
access certain confidential information within the credential,
which is intended solely for a verifier.
Mitigation: To protect sensitive information, claims within
the VC can be encrypted using a secret key known only to
authorized service providers. Additionally, selective disclosure
mechanisms can be employed, ensuring only the necessary
claims to be revealed. In such cases, the information re-
quired to reveal claims is shared exclusively with the service
providers, not the holder.
D. Man-in-the-Middle
Threat 8 : An attacker could intercept and tamper with
the communication between a legitimate user and a service
provider, potentially gaining access to the contents of the
presentation or altering the transmitted information.
Mitigation: Communications between two parties can be
secured by using end-to-end encryption protocols [61], which
protect the content from unauthorized access. Additionally, as
VCs are signed with the issuer’s private key, any modification
of their content would be detected.
Threat 9 : An adversary may intercept a VP and reuse it to
a different verifier, impersonating the legitimate holder and
gaining unauthorized access.
Mitigation: Replay attacks can be mitigated by including
a nonce or a timestamp in the VP. Verifiers should send a
challenge set as the nonce within the credential. To be valid,
the VP must include the challenge, ensuring it matches the
one provided by the verifier.
IV. I MPLEMENTATIONS
The successful implementation of DIDs and VCs plays a
crucial role in the widespread adoption of SSI systems and
the development of next-generation services. Developers need
efficient frameworks that simplify the use of these technologies
while adhering to established standards.
Although initially designed to give individuals greater con-
trol over personal data, DIDs and VCs have broader applicabil-
ity, extending to entities such as cloud, edge, and IoT devices,
which often feature different storage and computational capa-
bilities. This heterogeneity demands implementations that are
optimized to minimize storage and computational overhead.
The development of DIDs and VCs remains in its early
stages, with a relatively small number of available imple-
mentations. Nonetheless, our analysis provides developers and
stakeholders with valuable insights into the key differences
among the main solutions, guiding them in choosing the most
suitable option for their specific use cases. Table IV reports
the key features of main implementations.
A. DIDKit
DIDKit [62] is a toolkit from SpruceID that provides DID
and VC functionalities across various platforms. Its core
libraries are implemented in Rust, offering advantages such
as memory safety, simpler dependency tree, and compatibility
with various platforms, including embedded systems.
While DIDKit SDK supports a wide range of use cases,
its bindings for other languagessuch as C, Java, Android,
Python, and JavaScriptare implemented as wrappers around

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 10
the Rust core. As a result, using these bindings may intro-
duce additional challenges and complexity compared to direct
Rust usage. DIDKit supports selective disclosure, implemented
through SD-JWT. This library offers the following features:
1) It can sign and verify any VC compliant to the
W3C standard. DIDKit also includes a ready-to-use
HTTP/HTTPS server that accessed via any API inter-
face, including those specified by the W3C standard.
2) It supports and translates both of the two major signing
systems and proof formats used in VC.
3) It can handle, authenticate, validate, register, and de-
terministically generate many kinds of DIDs compliant
with the W3C standard.
4) It can also issue and consume authorization tokens based
on the Object Capabilities ”ZCaps”.
B. IOTA Identity Framework
The IOTA Identity framework [63] implements decentral-
ized identity solutions using both a DLT-agnostic approach
and dedicated IOTA method specification. It is built on the
Tangle, a next-generation DLT tailored for the IoT ecosystem.
The IOTA Identity Framework enables the creation of new
digital identities for any entity, including IoT devices, at any
time. These functionalities are offered in Rust and Node.js via
Web Assembly (W ASM), making it versatile across various
environments.
When using IOTA Identity, the verifier can confirm the
issuer’s identity through their public key on the Tangle,
while the holder provides proof of ownership over their DID.
IOTA Identity also supports selective disclosure mechanisms
following IETF standards, including both SD-JWT and Zero-
Knowledge Selective Disclosure (ZKSD).
One of the standout features of the IOTA identity framework
is its integration with the IOTA ledger, a Direct Acyclic Graph
(DAG), which provides unique benefits:
• Feeless: Unlike traditional blockchains, IOTA has no min-
ers or validators. Messages, including DID Documents,
can be stored without incurring transaction fees. This
feeless nature allows the deployment of SSI applications
directly on the main network at no cost, promoting global
accessibility and inclusivity.
• Ease-of-use: IOTA Identity is accessible without any
cryptocurrency token. It also provides simple APIs that
allow standardized and flexible functionalities. Addition-
ally, the framework includes a stronghold to securely
manage secrets.
• General Purpose DLT : IOTA is a general-purpose DLT,
enabling SSI integration with other features such as pay-
ments, data streams, smart contracts, and access control.
C. Hyperledger Aries
Hyperledger Aries [64] is an open-source project within
Hyperledger ecosystem that offers a complete suite of tools
and libraries for building decentralized identity applications.
It supports DIDs and VCs, ensuring their secure storage and
presentation while maximizing privacy preservation. Aries is
designed to be highly flexible, supporting multiple protocols,
various credential types, ledgers, and registries, as well as pro-
viding interoperability tools across different identity systems.
Developers can create novel applications by integrating
application-specific code that controls the Aries agent. Cur-
rently, there are several Aries general-purpose agents, with
others under active development:
• Aries Cloud Agent - Python : Suitable for all non-mobile
applications and has production deployments. It runs
alongside a controller and communicates using an HTTP
interface. The controller can be implemented using any
language and the agent embeds Indy-SDK.
• Aries Framework - .NET : Designed for building mobile
and server-side agents, this framework is also used in
production environments. Similar to the Python-based
agent, the controller can be written in any language, and
the framework can be embedded as a library. It also
includes the Indy-SDK.
• Aries Static Agent - Python : A configurable agent that
does not use persistent storage, making it lightweight and
straightforward for specific use cases.
Despite its potential, the development resources available
for Aries agents can be somewhat limited. Hyperledger pro-
vides an online course for developers, which is offered at
certain times throughout the year.
In terms of security and performance, Hyperledger Aries
stands out as one of the most robust platforms for decentralized
identity systems. However, for testing purposes or certification
in process-heavy environments, Aries may not be the optimal
choice due to its architectural complexity and the steep learn-
ing curve required to effectively use and deploy its agents.
D. Microsoft Entra Wallet Library
Microsoft has been actively developing the Microsoft Entra
Wallet Library [65], a novel library to manage DIDs and VCs
on iOS and Android platforms. It enables mobile applications
to integrate with the Microsoft Entra Verified ID platform,
supporting the issuance and presentation of VCs in compliance
with various industry standards, including OpenID Connect,
Presentation Exchange, and VCs.
By default, Microsoft Entra Wallet Library uses distinct
DIDs for each interaction with relying parties, ensuring pri-
vacy protection by preventing the correlation of user actions.
Moreover, the library automates the retrieval of exchanged
VCs directly from the original issuer, streamlining the process
and maintaining the integrity of the credentials. The library
supports the following requirements, providing flexibility for
verifiers and issuers:
• GroupRequirement: Allows verifiers or issuers to request
multiple requirements simultaneously, aggregating them
into a list.
• VerifiedIdRequirement: Enables a verifier or issuer to
request a specific VerifiedId, which serves as the primary
credential for the user.
• SelfAttestedClaimRequirement: Allows an issuer to re-
quest self-attested claim, which are simple string values
provided by the user.

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 11
• PinRequirement: Enables an issuer to require a PIN from
the user as part of verification or issuance process.
• AccessTokenRequirement: Allows an issuer to request an
Access Token. This typically involves the use of an
external library.
• IdTokenRequirement: Permits an issuer to request an
Identity Token (Id Token). If the token is not included
in the request, it must be obtained through an external
library.
Despite its potential, Microsoft Entra Wallet Library has
some limitations. To access developer resources, users must
register for the Microsoft 365 Developer Program and provide
personal information. In terms of usability, the Microsoft Entra
Wallet is primarily optimized for mobile devices, limiting its
broader use cases. However, it remains a promising solution
for IT admins managing access to apps and resources and
for app developers seeking to implement SSO functionalities
using existing user credentials.
E. Veramo
Veramo [66] is a JavaScript Framework designed to simplify
the use of DIDs and VCs. Its flexibility and modularity make
it adaptable for a wide range of use cases and workflows. At
the core of Veramo is the Veramo Agent, which leverages a
plugin-driven architecture to provide scalability and integration
with emerging standards in the verifiable data ecosystem.
The Veramo Agent is responsible for creating identifiers,
resolving identifiers, credential issuance, credential revocation,
credential exchange, and secret application hot sauce. These
functionalities are implemented via plugins, which expand
the agents capabilities and ensure adaptability. Additionally,
Veramo is multi-platform, running seamlessly across Node.js,
browsers, and React Native, making it suitable for a wide
array of development environments. Veramo further enhances
usability with a Command Line Interface (CLI), allowing
developers to quickly create DIDs and VCs or run a local
cloud agent directly from the terminal. This streamlines both
the development and testing processes, making it an attractive
tool for decentralized identity solutions.
Moreover, Veramo supports selective disclosure through a
dedicated plugin, enabling holders to selectively reveal specific
claims within a VC, thus protecting sensitive information
during credential verification. While this feature is still in its
beta phase, it demonstrates Veramo’s commitment to offering
robust privacy features aligned with emerging IETF standards
F . Lessons Learned
The exploration of the most popular implementations and
frameworks highlights their adherence to the W3C stan-
dard and open-source nature - two key factors favoring the
widespread adoption of DIDs and VCs. In particular, this
adherence ensures seamless interoperability across different
systems, which is crucial for the successful integration of
these identity technologies. Reviewing implementations shows
that some are more generic and web-centric (i.e., DIDKit,
Hyperledger Aires, and Veramo), while others are tailored
for specific application domains. Consequently, developers
must choose a framework that aligns with their needs and
application scenarios.
Among the existing implementations, DIDKit offers notable
flexibility by supporting a variety of popular programming
languages. Its inclusion of a ready-to-deploy HTTP/HTTPS
server makes it particularly valuable for developers approach-
ing these standards for the first time. Similarly, Veramo is
designed to simplify the creation of decentralized identity ap-
plications; however, its limitation to JavaScript may influence
developer’s decisions. While Hyperledger Aries provides a
robust solution, the initial learning curve may pose challenges,
especially for developers unfamiliar with the Hyperledger
ecosystem.
As outlined throughout this survey, the scope of DIDs
and VCs extends beyond only individuals and is potentially
applicable to any entity, including machines. In this context,
the IOTA Identity framework emerges as a natural and promis-
ing solution to enable the adoption of these technologies in
real-world scenarios, involving both humans and IoT devices.
IOTA’s underlying distributed ledger not only facilitates the
use of these technologies but also inherently supports a VDR,
eliminating the need for configuring an additional DLT to dis-
seminate publicly available information like DID Documents.
For developers focusing on mobile-centric solutions, the
Microsoft Entra Wallet Library stands out as it is specifically
designed for managing DIDs and VCs on various mobile
devices (e.g., smartphones and smartwatches) running iOS
and Android. This implementation empowers developers to
provide end-users with comprehensive control over their data
through their preferred mobile devices. The active involvement
of major technology companies is crucial in advancing these
technologies and delivering solutions seamlessly integrated
into the modern digital landscape.
V. A PPLICATIONS
In this section, we provide an in-depth analysis of DIDs
and VCs, exploring their application across various domains.
The versatility of these technologies becomes evident through
their use across a wide spectrum of fields, ranging from smart
transportation to smart healthcare.
We selected the application domains based on the maturity
of each field in adopting digital identity solutions, the potential
for significant real-world impact using DIDs and VCs, and
the existence of a robust body of research supporting these
developments. Figure 9 visually categorizes these application
areas, summarizing key findings from state-of-the-art research
that leverage the capabilities of DIDs and VCs.
A. Smart Transportation
Recent technological advancements have significantly con-
tributed to the development of modern intelligent transporta-
tion systems (ITS) [79], which impact various aspects of our
lives. Smart transportation involves integrating communication
technologies with vehicular services in transportation systems
[80]. In particular, Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) communications
have opened up for novel applications aiming to improve road
traffic efficiency and road safety [81]. For example, vehicles

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 12
Application Domains of DID and VC in the Literature
Smart Transportation Smart Services Other Idenity and Access
Management
Vehicular
Communications
Vehicular Services
Smart Healthcare
Healthcare
Services
Healthcare Data
Management
Industry
Smart
Manufacturing
Energy
Distribution
Smart Agriculture
Smart Supply
Chain
Other Smart Services
Smart Tourism
Smart Education
Smart Home
Reputation-based
Systems
Identity Management
Users and Devices
Serivices and Data
Electric Vehicle
Services
Fig. 9. Application domains of DID and VC in the existing literature.
TABLE V
TAXONOMY OF SMART TRANSPORTATION APPLICATIONS .
Work Use Case Main Contributions
[67] V2X Protocol A blockchain-based decentralized vehicle-to-anything protocol that enables vehicles to authenticate and
validate their information.
[68] Secure Data
Provenance A protocol that leverages VC to achieve secure data provenance in IoVs.
[69] V2X Protocol A decentralized key management system based on blockchain and SSI principles.
[70] V2X Reputation
System A V2X reputation system that allows transferring reputation to preserve privacy.
[71] Vehicle
Authentication
A secure registration and authentication mechanism for decentralized V ANETs, assisted by double-layer
blockchain and DIDs
[72] Seaport Truck
Authentication A secure, portable, decentralized, and user-controllable identity scheme for truck authentication in seaports.
[73] Vehicle Rights A decentralized identity management and vehicle rights delegation system.
[74] Vehicle Data A mechanism for establishing vehicle data provenance in real-time.
[75] Vehicle Identity A cost-effective implementation of the MOBI standard for vehicle identity.
[76] Energy Trading A blockchain-based energy trading scheme for electric vehicle-to-vehicle interactions.
[77] EV Charging A protocol for EV charging authentication and authorization that can be integrated into ISO 15118.
[78] Customer Privacy A user-empowered privacy-preserving authentication protocol for EV charging.
can exchange critical data regarding road conditions or acci-
dents. However, a key challenge in V2V communications is
the lack of trust between vehicles, as they typically do not have
prior relationships and rely on centralized network authorities.
DIDs and VCs offer promising solutions for establishing
a more secure and decentralized ITS ecosystem. Table V
provides a summary of the relevant literature in this area.
Vehicular Communications. In V2V communications, DIDs
and VCs ensure integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and
privacy without relying on a centralized trusted authority.
These technologies, when combined with DLTs, enable pro-
moting decentralized solutions that meet the requirements of
ITS applications. This trend has been further endorsed by the
MOBI Alliance [82], which introduced a blockchain-based
Vehicle IDentification (VID) standard in 2019 [75]. Built on
the DID specification, this standard enhances the traditional
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN), making it compatible
with the blockchain ecosystem. Figure 10 illustrates a high-
level architecture of a potential ecosystem based on VID and
DLT.
An example of such a protocol is D-V2X [67], a blockchain-
based decentralized Vehicle-to-Anything (V2X) protocol that
Governament Entity Wallet
Issuer of registration VC
Issuer of title VC
OEM Wallet
Issuer of birth VC
Governament Entity Wallet
Registration VC
Title VC
Identity VC
Insurance VC
Vehicle Wallet
Vehicle birth VC
VID
Ownership VC
Warranty VC
Mileage VC
...
...
RSU Wallet
Identity VC
DLT
Fig. 10. The DID/VC-enabled smart transportation reference architecture
presented by MOBI [10].
eliminates the need for a trusted intermediary. The key ele-
ment of this system is the decentralized vehicular PKI (D-
VPKI), which replaces the traditional VPKI used in V2X
communications [83]. To link a VIN to a vehicle using the
blockchain, the vehicle first registers a random DID with
the D-VPKI. The original equipment manufacturer (OEM)

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 13
then issues a VC embedding the VIN and any other relevant
data. In a fully decentralized set up, the vehicle acts as
both the subject and holder. Whenever the vehicle needs to
prove its DID association with its VIN, it provides the VC.
To preserve privacy, a vehicle registers multiple DIDs, all
linked to the master DID through ZKP-enabled VCs issued
by the OEM, which will remove the DIDs post-creation.
Alternatively, Secure Multiparty Computation (MPC) can be
employed to issue VCs, preventing the OEM from linking the
original DID Vehicles can also use pseudonyms by creating
two VPs: one to demonstrate the link between pseudonym and
master DID, and another to validate the master DID without
revealing it.
In addition, to counter GPS spoofing attacks, a vehicle can
obtain a VC from a nearby infrastructure (e.g., a traffic light),
certifying its location. Such a concern can also be addressed
through secure data provenance protocols [68]. Vehicles reg-
ister with local Road Side Units (RSU) by presenting a VC
attesting to some attributes. RSUs maintain a table for each
vehicle, including its attributes and location at a particular
time, leveraging basic safety messages. A vehicle that receives
claims from another vehicle, interacts with the RSU to check
whether the claimed whether the claim location is correct.
Vehicular Decentralized Key Management (VDKMS) [69] is
another proposal that leverages DIDs and VCs to achieve
secure communication and efficient key management in V2X
networks. Similarly to D-V2X, authorized vehicles are pro-
vided with a VC that binds the DID to vehicle information,
including its VIN.
Privacy-preserving computation is a significant concern in
V2X communications. One method to avoid tracking vehicles
consists of changing the blockchain address while retaining
reputations [70]. This mechanism prevents an external ob-
server from linking new and old addresses. The vehicle locally
generates a new address using a secret, derived from the
private key of its DID. These addresses form a deterministic
chain, allowing reconstruction for auditing or investigation
purposes. To transfer reputation, the vehicle generates a
”promise” containing the new address, the reputation value,
and a random nonce. This information is hashed and sent,
along with a ZKP, to a smart contract that verifies the proof,
checks the reputation balance, and stores the hash in a Merkle
Tree. The old address is then removed from the reputation
mapping, and the reputation is released to whoever can prove
ownership of the new address.
Vehicular Services. The integration of DIDs and VCs paves
the way for novel services in smart transportation, ranging
from optimal route planning and access to trucks at seaports
to transferring vehicle rights and V2V payments. For instance,
BDRA [71] leverages DIDs and a double-layer blockchain
for secure registration and authentication. The upper layer
comprises all authorized RSUs, while the lower layer includes
the RSU and the vehicles within their coverage areas. During
registration, each vehicle generates its own DID and submits
it to the covering RSU. RSUs collaborate with each other to
create a unique VC, granting vehicles access to services, such
as optimal route planning or real-time road condition updates.
Furthermore, they enable authenticated communications with
other vehicles. When a vehicle receives a message, it authenti-
cates the sender and verifies the sender’s DID against the list
of users authorized in the lower layer blockchain, ensuring
the sender reputation meets a predetermined threshold. The
recipient vehicle evaluates the message content, providing
feedback to the RSU, which updates its reputation on the
blockchain.
In seaports, trucks can be equipped with SSI credentials,
such as ”vehicle in service”, issued by trusted authorities.
DIDs and VCs can be used to enhance transportation efficiency
where thousands of tons of goods are moved [72]. When
a truck performs actions like picking up containers, it must
provide the necessary VCs to validate its authorization.
DIDs and VCs also streamline vehicle ownership transfers
and service access [73]. A vehicle owner can use pairwise
DIDs, private and not shared on the blockchain, to grant
temporary access to a service provider for vehicle checks or
to a friend borrowing the vehicle.
As connected vehicles and mobility applications increas-
ingly rely on data from diverse sources, ensuring data prove-
nance becomes critical to preventing misuse and manipulation.
DIDs can be employed to secure data provenance in an
automotive data processing chain, as demonstrated in a use
case involving an ML for detecting hazardous driving situa-
tions [74]. Here, data provenance is achieved by appending
new links - represented by DIDs - within a chain of signed
and linked data versions. Each data point is signed by its
producer and linked to its previous state, enabling traceability
throughout the data lifecycle.
MOBI is actively developing a vehicle identity standard to
support blockchain-based use cases such as V2V payments
and Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I) payments, automotive in-
surance, and financing. One practical implementation is the
Connected Vehicle Information Network (CVIN) [75], where
each vehicle is identified through a CVID ID, a DID-based
identifier.
Electric Vehicle Services. In recent years, Electric Vehicle
(EVs) have experienced significant growth, driven largely
by rising concerns about climate change and sustainability.
However, this gradual expansion has not been followed by
a corresponding increase in charging infrastructure [84]. The
development of the smart grid and the Internet of Vehicles
(IoVs) has enabled innovative charging methods such as
Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G) and V2V charging.
DIDs, VCs, and DLTs lay the foundation for novel energy
trading schemes in V2V environments [76]. In these systems,
DIDs are used to submit bids and reserve energy, the seller
DID is publicly accessible to verify the legitimacy of the
sellers and transactions. The only information stored on the
blockchain is the DID Document. Transaction details, such
as cost and the amount of energy exchanged, are securely
recorded through VCs. DIDs and VCs can be seamlessly
integrated into ISO 15118-20 [85], the standard defining
communication protocols for EV charging. These technologies
offer a robust alternative to the complex, centralized PKI
traditionally required by the standard [77].

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 14
TABLE VI
TAXONOMY OF SMART HEALTHCARE APPLICATIONS .
Work Use Case Main Contributions
[86] Immunity Passport An application that verifies COVID-19 antibody test/vaccination certifications.
[87] Immunity Passport A blockchain-based privacy-preserving platform for issuing and verifying COVID-19 test/vaccine certifi-
cates.
[88] Immunity Passport A blockchain-based platform for secure sharing and validation of COVID-19 vaccination certificates stored
in IPFS.
[89] Rare Disease A rare disease identity system that facilitates communications among different specialists, simplifying the
resolution of patient identities.
[90] Healthcare Data A privacy-aware access control system for healthcare data based on blockchain and SSI.
[91] Healthcare Data An access control system that allows users to directly grant access to their EHRs.
[92] Federated Learning A privacy-preserving decentralized learning framework for healthcare systems that leverages VCs to allow
clients to participate.
[93] IoMT Devices
Authentication A DID-based authentication system for smart healthcare systems.
[94] Personal Data
Trading A blockchain-based personal data trading system that enables users to sell their sensitive information.
Issuer 
fills an in-app
form
The app
verifies information 
through external  API
Issuer completes the
two factor verification
using  a link sent
to an official address 
Issuer receives the
DID that gos to the
Issuer's wallet
(a)
Issuer: Pharmacist
(b)
Holder: End-user
Holder uploads
a photo of
the identification
document
Text
A hash  is stored to 
the blockchain
meking the document
permanent
Holder receives the
DID that goes to the
Holder's wallet
Fig. 11. Onboarding Process: The pharmacist initiates the onboarding by submitting their information, which undergoes verification through external APIs to
generate a DID (a). The user authenticates their identity by uploading a document and receiving a DID (b).
1. The app collects the identity
information from the Holder
2. The app compares their hash 
with that stored on the blockchain
and shows the result on
the Issuer's display
3. After the test, the app retrieves 
the required data from the holder
and initiates the process
of creating a VC
4. The app sends the hash of 
the VC to the DLT 
5. The app sends the VC
to the waller of the Holder
Issuer: Pharmacist
Holder: End-user
Fig. 12. Certification Process: The user submits their identity information to
the pharmacist, who verifies it. After the completion of the medical test, the
application issues a VC containing the test results.
Another critical concern for EV charging is protecting
customer privacy. DIDs and VCs facilitate anonymous yet ver-
ifiable charging services, ensuring user privacy while enabling
service providers to confirm the legitimacy of users before
offering the service. [78]. Users register using a DID and a
pseudo-ID, which is employed to generate multiple pseudo-
IDs, which are then used for subsequent charging sessions.
Both the user and the charging station authenticate each other
by verifying the VC of the other party. ZKPs are employed to
validate the VC without revealing any additional information
about the user.
B. Smart Healthcare
The well-being of individuals has become a central focus
in modern society. With the increasing number of healthcare
services, the emphasis is on enhancing the health and wellness
of patients and elderly individuals, regardless of their location
or the time of need [95]. In this context, adopting DIDs and
VCs offers significant potential to address critical security and
privacy challenges. Below, we summarize key studies from
the literature that cover these aspects. Table VI reports the
contributions of each reference work.
Healthcare Services. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the
concept of immunity passport emerged as a potential means
to slowly come back to normal lives. Among the various
proposed technical solutions, those based on DIDs and VCs
have shown the most promise [14]. Mobile apps utilizing these
technologies can provide tamper-proof, privacy-preserving cer-
tification for test results and vaccinations [86], [87]. In such
systems, trusted entities like pharmacies or national health
service, providing VCs for essential documents such as test
results (e.g., blood tests) or vaccination certificates. These
credentials are securely stored in citizen hardware or digital
wallets after verification and medical testing are completed.
Verifiers are responsible for checking the VCs to determine
eligibility for participation in social activities, enforcing nec-
essary health restrictions, and ensuring that only individuals
meeting the required criteria are allowed access. Figure 11
illustrates the onboarding process for issuers and users, while
Figure 12 shows the main data flows of certification.

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 15
Some solutions [88] also incorporate decentralized tech-
nologies like the Internet Planetary File System (IPFS) for de-
centralized off-chain document storing, as storing certificates
directly on the blockchain would be extremely expensive in
terms of storage and time. Due to the criticality of such infor-
mation, IPFS stores the encrypted version of VCs, accessible
only to authorized entities. The IPFS hash is linked to the
citizen DID which serves as the user key pair.
These technologies can also support patients with rare
diseases, requiring treatments from multiple care providers
and specialists. Effective identity management helps stream-
line care, avoiding repetitive steps, enabling scalable and
collaborative solutions. RDIS [89] is a rare disease identity
system that facilitates communications between specialists and
resolves patient identities. It involves 4 types of participants,
each identified through a unique digital identifier (UDID),
a DID implementation tied to a digital profile. Verifiers,
such healthcare providers, manually check documents and
attest to users credentials. Consumers are all the entities, like
specialists, who need to access the Unique DID document of a
patient. The other participants are patients and their delegates,
which may be needed in case patients are minors or suffer
from some pathology that limits them. Verifiers issue and
sign attestations attached to patient’s UDID document, and
consumers verify these attestations through a smart contract,
which confirms the user presence in the verifier registry. Every
interaction is recorded in an audit log, containing only the DID
and a timestamp.
Healthcare Data Management. DIDs and VCs lay the
foundation of SSI systems, enabling selective disclosure of
userattributes while maintaining user privacy. One notable
application is DSMAC [90], a privacy-aware access con-
trol system for healthcare data built on blockchain and SSI
principles. DIDs authenticate access requests, with access is
granted or denied according to the roles defined in the user
VC under normal conditions. In emergency situations, the
system seamlessly shifts to Attribute-based Access Control
(ABAC) model, where permissions adapt dynamically to the
contextual attributes included in the VC. In this model, the
patient creates the access control policies and embeds them
into the DID Document, which is shared on the blockchain.
Access to Electronic Health Records (EHRs) can also be
managed using VCs, which represent the patient’s consent to
share specific information under predefined conditions [91].
Thus, individuals can directly issue a VC that determines what
resources can be accessed.
The increasing volume of healthcare data can be leveraged
by Machine Learning (ML) to support medical professionals
through predictive analytics for patient’s future health status.
However, strict regulations prohibit the processing or sharing
of individual health information without explicit consent,
hindering data exchange across hospitals and clinics. Federated
Learning (FL) [96] offers a promising and effective paradigm,
enabling multiple healthcare providers to collaboratively train
ML models without sharing raw data. In FL, each participant
trains a local ML model and exchanges only model weights,
which are further processed (e.g., differential privacy) to
prevent inference attacks. Another critical issue in FL is the
lack of trustworthiness among the participants, which can be
addressed by allowing a trusted authority, such as a hospital,
to facilitate collaboration [92].
The rise of the Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) is also
revolutionizing healthcare, with networks of small, power-
efficient, and lightweight wireless sensors, enabling healthcare
providers to remotely monitor patients [97]. These sensors
collect vital health data and assist in making timely med-
ical decisions. For secure data transmission, devices must
be registered using a DID and VC, which then generate
authentication tokens for interaction with healthcare providers
and identification numbers (e.g., hospital web server) [93].
Additionally, DIDs and VCs facilitate the secure trading
of personal data [94]. Users can authenticate their identity
through their DIDs and claim ownership of data using VCs. If
the data owner accepts a buyer’s request, they issue a VC that
grants the buyer permission to use the purchased data. ABAC
models offer highly flexible and fine-grained access control
by regulating authorization based on user-defined attributes,
which may include sensitive health information.
C. Industry
In recent years, the convergence of information technology
(IT) and operational technology (OT) has given rise to a
new era known as smart industries [111]. These industries
integrate traditional manufacturing processes with cutting-edge
technologies like artificial intelligence (AI), data analytics,
and IoT, driving and fostering economic growth [112]. As the
demand for intelligent, data-driven solutions rises, the software
has become a vital part of product development for modern
industries.
In this evolving landscape, decentralization has emerged
as a key focus due to the need for collaboration and inter-
connectivity among stakeholders. DIDs and VCs have attracted
significant attention as a tool for enabling secure and inter-
operable data exchange within industries [113]. Research in
this domain has identified four primary areas where DIDs
and VCs hold particular promise: smart manufacturing, energy
distribution, smart agriculture, and smart supply chain. Table
VII summarizes the main contributions of each referenced
study in these areas.
Smart Manufacturing. Smart manufacturing leverages ad-
vanced technologies to optimize and automate industrial pro-
cesses [114]. However, centralized approaches often suffer
from limitations in flexibility, efficiency, and security, while
trust issues with third-party authorities exacerbate these con-
cerns. To address these challenges the integration of DIDs
and VCs represents a compelling solution. For instance, DIDs
and VCs can be used to combat the counterfeiting of smart
devices, such as smartphones [98]. In this scenario, manufac-
turers generate a unique DID for each smartphone, using the
International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number as an
attribute. Specialized DID methods enable verification of the
IMEI DID document and ownership management, while VCs
serve to prove the device ownership.
The use of VC is also increasing in the context of Digital
Twin (DT) technology for realizing smart manufacturing and

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 16
TABLE VII
TAXONOMY OF INDUSTRY APPLICATIONS .
Work Use Case Main Contributions
[98] Anti-counterfeiting
System An anti-counterfeiting system for smartphones.
[99] Firmware/software
Updates A system for securely registering 5G IoT devices and updating their firmware.
[100] Device
Communications A framework for connecting unknown devices, updating firmware, and providing monitoring features.
[101] Federated Learning A framework that enables trustworthy federated learning among unknown clients.
[102] Federated Learning A framework that leverages blockchain and decentralized identifiers to simplify the use of FL in industry
4.0 scenarios.
[103] Smart Grid A distributed energy system incorporating renewable energy generation and heterogeneous end-users (e.g.,
residential, commercial, and industrial sectors).
[104] Smart Grid A framework for coordinating distributed energy resources.
[105] Smart Grid A DID-based attribute-based access control model for the smart grid.
[106] Agriculture Insurance A framework that enables trusted agricultural IoT data sharing and provides a decentralized oracle-based
access control mechanism for smart contracts in agricultural insurance.
[107] Food Supply Chain A system that provides full visibility of processes and food certifications.
[108] Supply Chain A model to track assets among different blockchain-based supply chain systems.
[109] Software Supply
Chain A blockchain-empowered architecture for software bill of materials.
[110]
Product Carbon
Footprint Supply
Chain
A model that enables trustworthy and confidential sharing of product carbon footprint.
Industry 4.0. DTs, characterized by the seamless integration
between the cyber and physical spaces, provide a virtual
representation of physical objects, processes, or services by
harnessing real-time data from their physical counterparts
[115]. The primary objective of DTs is to conduct tempo-
ral and predictive analyses, enabling organizations to derive
insights that facilitate informed decision-making and enhance
operational efficiency [116]. In this context, addressing se-
curity concerns is crucial, as data integrity in DTs must
be guaranteed. Authentic data, trusted sources, and traceable
ownership are essential for effective DT implementation. Ro-
bust cryptographic measures are required to protect data dur-
ing transit, thwarting unauthorized tampering. The SIGNED
framework [117] exemplifies how DLT and VCs can enhance
data security in digital twin environments. Each functional
unit, such as a device or software module, is equipped with
a wallet for seamless VC sharing. When issuing a VC, all
relevant attributes are encapsulated within a claim, encrypted
through a shared secret, and subsequently stored within the
VC. This ensures that verifiers can ascertain the integrity of
attributes and detect any tampering, while the issuer selectively
shares information based on specific requests.
Furthermore, DIDs and VCs can facilitate firmware updates,
as demonstrated by the Gnomon framework [99]. IoT devices
register their DIDs with an identity hub before delivery, and re-
ceive VCs to manage software updates. The software publisher
issues a new VC to the identity hub, and the device requests
the latest software through its VC, verifying if the software
publisher has authorized the update. If the VC references a
newer version, the device uses the URL included in the VC to
download the update. A DLT can further enhance, firmware
updates, and device monitoring [100]. Each device is assigned
a DID, certified by the associated DID Document that defines
its communication channel. A smart contract-based supervisor
manages logging operations and maintains a list of trusted
devices. Manufacturers can indicate a secure endpoint in the
DID Document to enable trustworthy firmware downloads.
DIDs and VCs also foster collaboration among unknown
participants in FL. For instance, TruFLaaS [101] offers FL as
a service, enabling companies to collaborate on shared tasks,
such as predicting machine breakdowns to reduce maintenance
costs and enhance production capacity. Participation is regu-
lated through VCs issued by the service provider, with the
option to revoke credentials when the quality of the submitted
models drops a certain threshold. Similarly, FlowChain [102]
promotes the adoption of FL in Industry 4.0 by using DIDs to
uniquely identify participants and regulate Industrial Internet
of Things (IIoT) device participation in FL training.
Energy Distribution. In this subsection, we explore other
applications related to energy distribution. DIDs and VCs can
be applied in blockchain-based energy management systems
to evaluate user credit [103]. Each user has a DID that can be
used to verify credit or assess the credit of others, all while
preserving privacy, and avoiding the disclosure of sensitive
information. VCs are issued by energy system operators to
grant users access to the microgrid and P2P trading system.
Users can also issue VCs to confirm that a counterpart
has either supplied power on demand or bought less than
scheduled. These VCs, which form part of the users credit
history, are stored on the blockchain, preventing falsification.
As illustrated in Figure 13, the collection of VCs issued to a
user constitutes their credit.
Flex [104] provides another example of how DIDs and VCs
can enhance energy systems. This framework coordinates dis-
tributed energy resources by registering stakeholders through
DIDs. These identifiers facilitate interactions between stake-
holders, such as system operators and retailers, while allowing
customers to present pre-defined documentation to authorized
parties for attribute validation. For example, a hardware vendor
can verify the capacity or model number of the inverter of
a rooftop solar system. DIDs and VCs allow users to prove

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 17
1. Residential user
DID1-Document1 
2. Commercial user
DID2-Document2
Entity
 Verifier
Register Query
Counterparty of commercial
user Neighbor
 DID2 bought 5KW less 
 than scheduled this week
Verifiable Credential Issuer
DID1 bought electricity as
scheduled this week
Record Request
Verification
Fig. 13. VCs can be used to determine the user’s credit. In the figure, the
commercial user with DID 2 has bought less energy than expected, whereas
the neighboring user with DID 1 has requested the scheduled energy.
their attributes to any authorized market participant or system
without disclosing the underlying information.
In the context of smart grids, ABAC models are widely
used for their granularity and flexibility. However, using user
attributes for access control can raise significant privacy con-
cerns. To address this challenge and mitigate privacy risks, a
promising solution is to implement a DID-based ABAC system
[105]. This approach leverages pairwise DIDs to uniquely
identify participants, with each identifier tailored to the specific
interactions. To further enhance privacy protection, traditional
user attributes are replaced with VCs, which attest to the
validity of certain user attributes without disclosing sensitive
information.
Smart Supply Chain. The integration of DIDs, VCs, and
DLTs holds significant promise for enhancing the industrial
supply chain within the broader industry ecosystem. These
technologies can significantly improve transparency, traceabil-
ity, interoperability, and logistics operations.
DLTs provide transparency and immutability, which are
key to fostering trust and cooperation between supply chain
participants, including companies and manufacturers. With
DLTs, all participants can access reliable and tamper-proof
information, promoting efficient collaboration. On the other
hand, DIDs enable the tracking of entities involved in supply
chain operations, such as IoT devices and personnel. For in-
stance, each node in the supply chain can require certifications,
which are issued as VCs by authorized bodies [107]. These
certifications are publicly accessible and verifiable. When a
participant seeks a process certification, an off-chain verifica-
tion procedure ensures they meet the necessary requirements.
If successful, the certification body issues a VC stored on
the IPFS, with the resulting hash being signed and recorded
on the blockchain. Verifiers retrieve the VC by accessing the
hash from the blockchain and the corresponding data on IPFS.
This mechanism ensures the integrity and authenticity of the
certifications, providing a robust trust model within the supply
chain. Figure 14 illustrates how this process leverages IPFS
and DLTs to manage DIDs and VCs.
Furthermore, VCs can enhance interoperability across dif-
ferent blockchain-based supply chain systems. An example of
this is the Verifiable Supply Chain Credential (VSCC) [108],
which extends the traditional VC data model to verify asset
alterations tracked across multiple blockchains. This allows
seamless data integration from different systems, enhancing
the overall efficiency and effectiveness of the supply chain. In
shipping, for instance, DIDs and VCs streamline interaction
between delivery agents and the mailbox for storing delivered
items [118]. The mailbox is identified through an anonymous
DID and communicates its availability to the marketplace.
For each purchase, the shipping deliverer is provided by the
marketplace with a VC that allows access to the mailbox, while
the customer receives a VC as proof of withdrawal.
Beyond traditional supply chain functionalities, the com-
bination of blockchain and VCs can revolutionize software
development, particularly for sharing the Software Bill of
Materials (SBOM) [109]. Blockchain provides a secure and
transparent way to store and share data, while VCs ensure the
authenticity and integrity of the SBOM information. Oversight
authorities may issue VCs certifying that software vendors
adhere to secure software development standards and prac-
tices. These credentials are then recorded on the blockchain,
enabling stakeholders to easily verify the authenticity of the
software and its components, thereby promoting trust in soft-
ware development processes.
VCs can also help achieve trustworthy supply chain ex-
change for product carbon footprints [110]. This is particularly
relevant for manufacturers, as selective disclosure enables
them to share only specific information from certifications
related to the carbon footprint of their products while safe-
guarding trade secretssuch as supplier detailsthat are typically
included alongside the certified carbon footprint value.
D. Other Smart Services
With the rapid advancement of cloud and IoT technologies,
urban centers are transforming into smart cities. The smart city
concept aims to capitalize on the resources available through
ubiquitous devices, offering a wide array of innovative ser-
vices. A fully smart city ecosystem encompasses components
such as IoT devices, interconnected networks, robust data
storage systems, and powerful cloud computing infrastructure
to support service delivery.
While the potential benefits of smart cities are clear,
their implementation remains in its early stages, with no
city achieving full digitalization yet. However, by combining
DIDs and VCs with other technological breakthroughs, these
advancements can significantly enhance smart city services.
Table VIII summarizes the key contributions of the reviewed
works.
Smart Tourism. The tourism sector continuously seeks inno-
vative solutions that can attract more visitors [129]. On the one
hand, the development of smart tourism aims to create a more
personalized and ever-adapting experience for tourists while
increasing economic, social, and environmental sustainability.

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 18
3. Hash
User
Access Control
System
Verifier
5. Hash
4. Hash
(a)
2. Hash
1. DID Document
6.DID Document
3. Hash
Issuer
Access Control
System
Verifier
5. Hash
4. Hash
(b)
2. Hash
1. VC
6. VC
Fig. 14. General workflow for managing DIDs and VCs using DLT and IPFS. In (a), a user uploads their DID on IPFS and publishes the corresponding
identifier (i.e., a hash value) on a DLT; such information is then used by verifiers to retrieve the DID document and access to the user’s publicly available
information. Similarly, in (b), issuers and verifiers perform the same operation referring to VC instead of a DID.
TABLE VIII
TAXONOMY OF OTHER SMART APPLICATIONS .
Work Use Case Main Contributions
[119] Smart Tourism A smart tourism identity authentication service based on blockchain and DID.
[120] Smart Tourism An analysis of how blockchain might offer novel travel experiences within the tourism domain.
[121] Smart Education A systematic literature analysis on the use of digital credentials in higher education institutions.
[122] Smart Education A mechanism to create secure and machine-verifiable academic credentials.
[123] Smart Education A decentralized verification solution for higher education certificates.
[124] Smart Education Empirical findings from a cross-border pilot on verifying education credentials between two universities
in Italy and Belgium.
[125] Smart Education An investigation of how digital credentials can be integrated into the SSI ecosystem to overcome challenges
of academic networks.
[126] Smart Home An OAuth-based authorization and delegation in smart homes for the elderly.
[127] Smart Home A capabilities-based access control system for IoT devices.
[128] E-commerce A reliable reputation systems for the e-commerce ecosystem.
[117] Digital Twin A framework based on data ownership and verifiability principles, aiming to ensure digital assets in DTs
securely protected.
On the other hand, the industry has faced challenges such as
fraudulent travel agencies and unqualified part-time guides.
The integration of DID, VC, and blockchain technology
offers an effective solution for identity authentication in smart
tourism [119]. Tourism companies that want to be authorized
can submit identity requests to regulatory authorities in com-
pliance with national standards. Upon successful verification,
they receive a DID and VC. To alleviate the burden on the
blockchain, IPFS is used to store the DID Documents and VCs,
which certify the legitimacy of the smart tourism organization
to offer services.
Some countries are reducing their reliance on traditional
passports. For example, starting in 2024, Singapore’s Airport
is implementing automated immigration clearance, allowing
travelers to depart without passports using biometric data
[130]. Blockchain-based SSI could further enable paperless
travel [120]. A tourist can apply for a visa by presenting their
DID to the consulate, which releases it as a VC. Such VCs
allow the tourist to share identity information when accessing
services like hotel reservations and car rentals that require
identity verification.
Smart Education. Many higher education institutions still rely
on paper-based graduation certificates, leading to inefficiencies
such as slow, costly, and easily falsified validation processes
[121]. These challenges affect both certificate holders and
recruiters. Graduates may face difficulties when accessing
services such as applying for further studies or transferring to
other universities, while recruiters may struggle with trust and
verifying the authenticity of credential. The adoption of DIDs
and VCs is a promising solution to create digital education
passports, offering a secure and trustworthy digital alternative
to traditional paper-based certificates.
To achieve trustworthiness, certification systems of aca-
demic credentials must be transparent. In this direction,
blockchain is considered the ideal technology. The process
of issuing a VC can be modeled as a series of sub-credentials
issued over time, with each certification step being recorded on
the blockchain. This creates a dependency graph, allowing ver-
ifiers to detect and prevent malicious actions while establishing
a publicly verifiable causal relationship between achievements
[122]. To further enhance trust, the certification process should
be distributed among different officials, reducing the risk
of a small group compromising the system. Additionally,
blockchain and consortium smart contracts can used to enforce
decentralized verification [123]. Higher education institutions
can register issued certificates on the blockchain, allowing
recruiters to verify their authenticity and integrity. In this
system, consortium smart contract maps the DIDs of regis-
tered educational institutions to their respective smart contract
addresses. When an academic institution joins the consortium,
it must deploy its smart contract and gain approval from
other members. The smart contract deployed by each higher
education institute manages the registration and retrieval of
certificate hashes. Recruiters can utilize an application to

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 19
verify certificates, while higher education institutes can use
another application to interact with the smart consortium
contract to express their intent to join the consortium.
Digital credentials also simplify students’ educational ser-
vices. For example, as shown in Figure 15, university admis-
sion offices may need to verify a student’s prior degrees from
other institutions, potentially located in different countries
[124]. Current academic networks like EMREX use PKI to
issue and verify digital credentials. However, linking digital
identities to students poses a challenge in EMREX as it is
not supported by default. To address this, the ELMO2EDS
application [125] converts EMREX digital credentials into
EBSI diplomas, a suitable SSI data format that enables user
authentication.
Smart Home. Smart homes consist of various interconnected
devices that collaborate to offer innovative facilities. These
devices communicate through a centralized home gateway,
acting as a bridge between the smart home and the Internet.
This integration enables users to remotely control their homes,
offers increased convenience and security to their daily lives
[131]. The home gateway also plays a crucial role in managing
user access to devices by enforcing predefined access control
policies.
In certain situations, external individuals may require ac-
cess, such as a technician needing to repair a refrigerator.
DIDs and VCs offer a promising solution for secure, tem-
porary access. Nevertheless, some smart devices may lack the
processing capabilities to handle DIDs and VCs directly. To
overcome this limitation, the processing of DIDs and VCs
can be delegated to an OAuth server [126]. Considering the
example of a broken refrigerator, the technician presents their
DID and VC, issued and trusted by their company, to the
OAuth server. The OAuth server generates a token granting
them that grants access to the refrigerator. In some cases, smart
devices may have the resources to independently verify VCs,
granting access based on the credential validity. These VCs
can include detailed information about the user capabilities
over the device, as demonstrated in [127].
Reputation-based Systems. Nowadays, individuals frequently
share their opinions through online reviews, expressing prefer-
ences for hotels, restaurants, services, and more on platforms
like TripAdvisor and Google Reviews. Many people also rely
on these reviews when making decisions, such as selecting a
restaurant or purchasing a product. However, it is crucial to
recognize that these reviews may not always be reliable due to
potential biases, whether positive or negative. To address this,
VCs can be also leveraged to build more trustworthy reputation
systems.
For example, in e-commerce systems, [128] each seller can
be identified through a digital identity and , after a purchase,
they can issue feedback tokens as VCs to customers. These
tokens are used to submit reviews, ensuring the feedback
and identity information is authentic and tamper-proof. To
encourage participation, clients are rewarded with a discount
token from the platform after submitting their review.
Smart Agriculture. Agriculture is one of the most valuable
sectors of the global economy. However, recent global warm-
1. Register
2. Request Educational
Credenaital
3.Issue VC
4. Present VC
5. Check attributes
of VC
Issuer: 
University A
Holder: Exchange Student
Verifier: 
University B
Fig. 15. A student seeks to participate in an exchange program at University
B, supported by a VC issued by University A. To ensure the legitimacy of the
credits earned at University B, the roles of issuer (University A) and verifier
(University B) are exchanged.
ing challenges have significantly impacted food production
[132], increasing the number of people experiencing acute
hunger. The production risks are primarily caused by ex-
treme weather conditions such as heavy storms and prolonged
droughts, which may cause severe losses in crop yield and
lead to marginal farmers financial bankruptcy. In response to
these challenges, agriculture insurance has emerged as a risk
management strategy to support farmers. However, the lack
of trustworthiness in agricultural data-sharing platforms and
information asymmetries discourage insurers from develop-
ing higher-quality insurance schemes. Moreover, smallholder
farmers are often reluctant to insure their crops due to limited
awareness, high premium costs, delays in payouts, and lack of
transparency in the claims process.
The integration of DIDs, VCs, and blockchain can offer the
required guarantees to realize agricultural IoT data sharing
[106]. In this context, smart contracts also play a crucial role,
as they can automate payout to farmers who meet predefined
conditions in agricultural risk assessment. However, due to
the deterministic nature of blockchain, smart contracts cannot
directly access data from external sources such as agricultural
IoT. This limitation is overcome through the use of oracles
which realizes a bridge between the blockchain ecosystem and
the outside world. Each IoT device deployed in farmland is
assigned a DID, and the blockchain serves as the source proof
for the VCs issued to these devices, based on their attributes.
E. Identity Management
DIDs and VCs were originally proposed as valuable tech-
nologies for identity management. This section reviews sys-
tems that leverage these technologies for managing user and
device identities, and to identify services and resources. Table
IX offers an overview of the referenced papers.
Users and Devices. CanDID [133] is a decentralized identity
system that enables issuing credentials in a user-friendly
manner. The identity subsystem securely ports identities and
credentials from existing web services (e.g., social media
platforms and online bank accounts), allowing the creation of
trustworthy credentials without needing to explicitly generate
DID-compatible credentials. CanDID also provides a key re-
covery service, enabling users to retrieve their keys efficiently.
BIdM [134] is a blockchain-based decentralized identity
management system that uses DIDs to identify identities and

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 20
TABLE IX
TAXONOMY OF IDENTITY AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT APPLICATIONS .
Work Use Case Main Contributions
[133] Identity System A decentralized digital identity system.
[134] Cross-domain
Identity A decentralized cross-domain identity management system based on blockchain.
[135] Identity System A distributed identity system for IoT.
[136] Access Control An access control model for cross-organization identity management.
[137] Selective Disclosure A protocol for the selective disclosure of claims within VCs.
[138] Identity System An identity framework that combines SSI and FIDO.
[139] Naming Protocol A naming protocol for IPFS content identifiers that enables self-verifiable content items.
[140] Service Discovery A P2P discovery system for web services.
[141] Cross-domain
Identity A cross-chain verification model of DIDs for JointCloud.
[142] Routing A protocol enabling routers to self-verify content advertisements.
remove any single-point dependencies. Public keys associated
with each identity are retrieved through the blockchain-based
identity provider, ensuring secure and trustworthy identity
management. BIdM employs a one-way accumulator to ac-
cumulate valid key-value pairs (DIDs and public keys) and
support efficient proof of membership. These accumulator
states are stored on a blockchain consortium, preventing single
point of failure and ensuring cross-domain synchronization.
For cross-domain authentication, the identity-relying party
retrieves the authenticated entity information and verifies them
via the accumulator. To enhance user identity representation,
BIdM divides identities into master and shadow: the mas-
ter identity corresponds to the DID used within blockchain
networks, while the shadow identity is issued by the iden-
tity provider and stored offline. SmartDID [135] is another
blockchain-based distributed identity system tailored for IoT
environments. It features a dual-credential mode and a dis-
tributed proof system. The dual-credential mode leveraging
commitments and ZKPs to protect the privacy of sensitive
attributes, on-chain identity data, and credential linkages.
SSIBAC [136] is an access control model based on the
XACML specification, integrating DIDs, VCs, and blockchain
technologies to provide privacy and data sovereignty. VCs are
encoded in VPs and mapped to access control policies stored in
a policy retrieval point. Access requests are regulated through
permission validators that bind VPs to attributes, roles, or other
data abstractions. Each VC corresponds to an attribute or role
defined by an access control policy.
In modern identity and access management systems, privacy
preservation is a critical concern. DIDs and VCs offer a novel
approach to increase privacy and security by allowing individ-
uals to present credentials without revealing unnecessary data.
This is made possible through selective disclosure, a key fea-
ture of VCs that enables users to share only a subset of claims
while keeping unrelated or sensitive information concealed.
For example, when purchasing wine online, a user can disclose
only their date of birth to verify their age, while keeping
other personal details private. This concept can be extended
to other domains, such as healthcare, where a patient might
need to prove their insurance coverage without revealing their
entire medical history. Numerous selective disclosure mech-
anisms have been developed over time, leveraging advanced
cryptographic techniques like ZKPs and selective disclosure
signatures to ensure security and privacy protection [45].
For example, claims within a VC that represent a diagnostic
record can be hidden through HMACs, allowing the patient to
selectively disclose data with medical personnel or healthcare
service providers [137].
To further enhance security, SSI identity frameworks can
integrate additional authentication protocols [138] like FIDO
[34]. This combination adds an extra layer of protection,
reducing the risk of data breaches and preventing unauthorized
access, even in the event of identity theft. Each individual uses
a FIDO authenticator, which generates a locally stored key pair
serving as their credentials. This key pair is linked to the user
DID, facilitating identification and verification of ownership
of VCs. For users lacking external authentication devices such
as USB tokens, the Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) can
act as the FIDO authenticator.
Services and Data. IPFS is a decentralized protocol for storing
and sharing data, where each item is identified by a content
identifier (CID) derived from a hash function. However, any
modification to the data results in a new CID, which can
complicate identifier management at scale. Integrating DID
and DNS can address this issue [139]. DIDs are used as
content names, while DNSlink binds a DID to a CID. The
content owner publishes a self-verifiable content item on IPFS,
which includes the DID document, proof, signed metadata, and
the content itself. The generated DID is associated with the
CID through DNSlink, allowing the the item to be located by
its DID. Whenever the CID is updated due to content changes,
the corresponding DNS record is updated as well.
Beyond data storage, DIDs can be extended to service
discovery in peer-to-peer networks by using them to identify
threads as global resources [140]. DID and VCs enable identity
verification among multiple entities from multiple organiza-
tions. However, they are usually employed to verify identities
within a single blockchain. Facilitating cross-chain DID verifi-
cation across different blockchains can promote collaboration
and trust between entities. For example, in JointCloud - a
novel cloud computing paradigm connecting multiple clouds -
managing heterogeneous VCs issued by various organizations
is achieved through a data structure called a verifiable claim,
which can be signed by any entity [141]. To verify claims
across blockchains, the verifier executes cross-chain contracts
and, if permitted, retrieves and verifies the claims. To further

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 21
enhance trust, verifiable claims, signers, and verifiers are
assigned a credibility value.
DIDs can also be applied to self-verifiable content advertise-
ment in named data networking (NDN) [142], where content
is routed based on identifiers instead of network locations. In
this model, content owners use hierarchical DIDs as content
names and authorize a publisher to advertise a content name
prefix to a specific router. To secure the advertisement process,
the content owner generates a DID document containing the
JWK representation of a key, which allows the publisher with
that key to advertise the content.
F . Lessons Learned
The review of the existing body of research outlines that
DIDs and VCs have found applications across seemingly
unrelated fields, including smart transportation and smart
healthcare. Despite the differences, these technologies are used
as integral components in realizing SSI systems across most
domains.
A key feature of DIDs and VCs is the capacity to empower
individuals with complete control over their data, enabling
selective information sharing. Consequently, communication
becomes more secure and the risk of potential data breaches
is reduced, contributing to building a decentralized and safer
digital landscape. Moreover, as underscored by the differences
between application domains, these digital identities are uti-
lized across a multitude of platforms and applications, thereby
favoring interoperability and improving user experience. No-
tably, VCs can seamlessly enable access to both educational
and healthcare services.
While existing literature primarily focuses on DIDs and VCs
as building blocks for SSI, their ability to provide decentral-
ized verification and the use of DLTs extends beyond, paving
the way for fulfilling the objectives of various applications.
As highlighted in the literature review, DIDs and VCs can be
leveraged in many scenarios where decentralized verification
and/or immutability are required, with human involvement not
being the primary focus. For instance, in vehicular scenarios,
these technologies are used to enable secure and verifiable
communications between vehicles and roadside units [67].
Similarly, the Gnomon framework [99] employs DIDs and
VCs to securely update firmware on devices.
Finally, as discussed in Section IV, there are connections be-
tween the chosen implementation and the application domain.
For example, referring to the frameworks reported in Table IV,
in contexts such as smart agriculture and smart transportation,
where entities like smart sensors and vehicles require digital
identities, IOTA Identity stands as a natural solution. On the
other hand, for individuals who prefer managing their digital
credentials through mobile applications, e.g., storing medical
certificates or travel information, the Microsoft Entra Wallet
offers all the necessary functionalities.
VI. R EGULATIONS , P ROJECTS & O RGANIZATIONS
Recently, we have been witnessing a growing interest in
DIDs and VCs, as demonstrated by the increasing number of
regulations, projects, and consortiums emerging worldwide. To
provide a comprehensive overview of the global landscape, this
section analyzes the key initiatives that have emerged since
2019. These represent collaborative efforts among various
stakeholders, such as government entities, technology firms,
research institutions, and standardization bodies.
A. Europe
Europe has always been at the forefront of developing in-
novative identity management solutions that enable European
citizens to use electronic identities (eIDs) for online authenti-
cation and communication with online services provided by
Member States [143]. This interest in decentralized digital
identity predates the rise of DIDs and VCs. In 2014, the Euro-
pean Commission recognized the importance of digital identity
with the publication of Regulation 910/2014 on electronic
identification and trust services (eIDAS) [144]. This regulation
laid the groundwork for European citizens to securely access
online services across the European Union (EU) through a
standardized set of digital identity credentials.
eIDAS 2.0. The eIDAS regulation is based on the federated
identities model, wherein users are registered with an identity
provider. This provider enables them to seamlessly share their
identities with service providers that place trust in that identity
provider. Although this approach provides an SSO experience,
it has raised privacy concerns because users do not have
direct control over their data, and the identity provider has
the potential to aggregate information from multiple services,
potentially profiling clients.
To address such challenges, the European Commission
proposed an updated version of eIDAS in 2021 known as
eIDAS 2.0 [145]. This updated version shifts from a federated
to an SSI model aiming to empower users with direct control
over their information, sharing only the minimum amount of
data required by the service provider to fulfill their request.
In May 2024, the EU Regulation 2024/1183 [22] intro-
duced the European Digital Identity Framework, designed to
strengthen secure and user-controlled digital identities. A key
element of this framework is the European Digital Identity
Wallet (EUDIW) [146], which is expected to catalyze a major
shift toward digital identity, with 500 million smartphone users
anticipated to regularly use the EUDIW by 2026 [147]. This
wallet aims to offer European citizens secure access to both
public and private services, online and offline, across Europe
through an SSI system. It will simplify daily activities for
citizens and businesses by supporting various use cases, such
as opening a bank account or obtaining educational credentials.
In this ecosystem, each EUDIW is associated with a DID,
and the credentials stored in the EUDIW take the form of
VCs issued by eIDAS issuers. The verification keys must
be publicly accessible by anyone for any use case, ensuring
transparency and interoperability.
eSSIF-LaB. The European Self-Sovereign Identity Framework
Lab (eSSIF-LaB) [148] is an EU-funded project that focuses
on accelerating the adoption of SSI. This initiative represents a
next-generation digital identity solution, aiming to revolution-
ize electronic transactions both online and offline. It achieves
this by offering a secure, open, and trustworthy framework.

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 22
eSSIF-LaB functions as a collaborative ecosystem that brings
together various stakeholders, including governments and en-
terprises, to simplify the implementation and utilization of SSI
technology.
EBSI. The European Blockchain Services Infrastructure
(EBSI) [149] is a collaborative effort between the EU and
the European Blockchain Partnership (EBP) to establish a
unified platform involving all 27 EU MSs, as well as Norway
and Liechtenstein. Its primary objective is to create a robust
infrastructure that supports seamless cross-border services. For
example, one significant application of EBSI lies in leveraging
DIDs and VCs to streamline the management of educational
credentials. To illustrate the potential of EBSI in this context,
notable institutions like the University of Bologna in Italy and
the University of Leuven in Belgium have recently participated
in a pilot study focused on the verification of educational
credentials [124]. This study included verifiable student IDs
and transcripts of student records, which can be reliably
verified through the EBSI framework.
Regional Initiatives. Besides initiatives directly led by Euro-
pean institutions, there are other projects at the regional level
[150]. Among European countries, Finland, Spain, the Nether-
lands, and Germany are actively working on the development
of national SSI frameworks. Moreover, the Spanish Associa-
tion for Standardization published the first global standard on
decentralized identity management based on DLTs in 2021.
GDPR. Additionally, DIDs and VCs offer a flexible and
privacy-preserving approach to digital identity management,
enabling robust compliance with key GDPR data rights.
• Right to Be Informed : Individuals have the right to be
informed about the collection and use of their data.
With VCs, data sharing is fully under the control of
the user, who decides when and with whom to share
their credentials. This ensures that individuals are always
aware of where their data is being transmitted and for
what specific purpose it is being used.
• Right to Rectification : In cases where the information
within a VC is incorrect or outdated, individuals can
request the issuance of the credential with the corrected
information, ensuring that their data remains accurate and
up-to-date.
• Right to Be Forgotten : Users can revoke a VC at any
time, rendering it unusable for future verifications and
preventing further use of the credential. Additionally, the
selective disclosure technique employed by VCs ensures
that only the minimum necessary information is shared
for any given transaction, significantly reducing the risk
of unnecessary data retention by third parties. Finally,
VCs may also leverage cryptographic techniques like
ZKP, which allows individuals to prove certain properties
without revealing underlying personal data, leading to
enhanced data minimization.
B. North America
The United States (U.S.) has shown a long-standing interest
in trusted digital identities and initiated significant develop-
ments starting as early as 2011 when the National Strategy
for Trusted Identity in Cyberspace (NSTIC) was implemented
[151]. In 2016, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
recognized the potential of blockchain-based digital identity
technology, awarding grants to enterprises involved in this
field [152], including one that funded the establishment of the
DID working group within the W3C. Within a year, the DHS
began providing financial support, accumulating a total of $4
million in funding targeted specifically at small and medium-
sized enterprises in the DID domain [153].
Over the years, the U.S. government’s interest in DIDs
and VCs has remained consistent. In June 2023, the DHS
further showcased its commitment to advancing this field by
publishing a solicitation seeking cutting-edge solutions for a
privacy-preserving digital credentialing ecosystem [154]. The
DHS aims to incorporate these solutions into various compo-
nents and offices, including U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services (USCIS), U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP),
and the DHS Privacy Office (PRIV). The global success and
adoption of DIDs and VCs have fueled this interest. Specifi-
cally, the DHS is looking for privacy-preserving components
that can seamlessly integrate with existing credentialing sys-
tems utilized by the department. Among the valuable technical
topic areas identified by the DHS are digital wallets and
software-based verifier implementations for mobile devices.
The Government of Canada, through its Digital Identity
and Authentication Council of Canada (DIACC), has been
actively exploring the use of DIDs and VCs. DIACC is a
nonprofit coalition of public and private sector leaders working
together to develop a digital identity framework for Canada
[155]. One of the key initiatives in this space is the Pan-
Canadian Trust Framework (PCTF), which comprises a set
of rules, standards, and best practices that define how digital
identity and VCs can be used across Canada. The framework
aims to establish a trusted and interoperable digital identity
ecosystem that facilitates secure and privacy-enhancing trans-
actions. Furthermore, Canada is actively involved in interna-
tional collaborations and standards development efforts related
to DIDs and VCs. For example, the DIACC participates in
the W3C Credentials Community Group. In 2018, Canadian
public authorities created the Verifiable Organizations Network
(VON) to enable governments and organizations to exchange
data with VCs used to issue digital licenses, permits, and
registration document to legal entities [156].
C. South America
In South America, Argentina is the most active country
working on digital identity projects that incorporate DIDs and
VCs. The main digital identity project is DIDI [157], which
aims to improve levels of trust and break down some of
the socioeconomic and financial barriers that impede access
to quality goods and services for vulnerable populations.
For example, in 2021, to promote financial inclusion, the
project began providing farmers in the Gran Cacho region with
VCs documenting their sustainable practices. Such credentials
contribute to climate risk scores that can be presented to
financial institutions looking to promote access to financial
credit for rural producers and communities. Recently, the

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 23
province of Misiones approved a law allowing the use of
blockchain in government management operations. Therefore,
the region launched a project to improve the adoption of digital
wallets. DIDs and VCs can also facilitate secure and trusted
cross-border trade.
South American countries are exploring the use of these
technologies to streamline customs processes and enhance
trade security. For example, Brazil, Colombia, and Costa Rica
are among the main countries involved in Farmer Connect
[158], a project that leverages SSI technologies to enable end-
to-end traceability across the food and agriculture supply chain
while addressing regulatory compliance needs.
D. Asia
Although digital identities are very widespread in Asia,
many of the existing solutions do not specifically employ DIDs
and VCs. Indeed, most of the approaches are still centralized.
However, it is worth noting that they could be easily integrated
with these technologies, whose potential has been recently
emphasized by the Founder CTO of Aadhaar [159], India’s
biometric ID system.
South Korea stands out as one of the Asian countries at
the forefront of adopting DIDs and VCs with a thriving
digital identity ecosystem and numerous ongoing projects
[160]. The Korea Financial Telecommunications & Clearings
Institute (KFTC) has introduced a blockchain-based digital ID
for financial services, while actively participating in the DID
Alliance Korea. In 2020, the city of Busan in South Korea
launched the Busan Blockchain ID App, enabling citizens to
utilize DIDs for accessing various facilities, such as the ”multi-
child family love” card that provides benefits to households
with three or more children. South Korea has also been
actively involved in international standardization efforts related
to DIDs and VCs, with the Korea Internet & Security Agency
(KISA) being a member of the W3C Credentials Community
Group.
In late 2023, the Chinese Ministry of Public Security col-
laborated with the Blockchain-based Service Network (BSN)
to introduce RealDID [161], an initiative designed to verify
real-name digital identities, encrypt personal data, and pro-
vide certification. Furthermore, the Chinese WeBank launched
WeIdentity [162], a project aiming to establish a decentralized
identity ecosystem using DIDs and VCs. In Hong Kong, using
blockchain, DIDs, and VCs have facilitated the development
of innovative platforms like ARTRACX Curator [163], which
establishes digital identities for fine art and collectibles, en-
suring proper intellectual property protection and authentica-
tion. These initiatives showcase the diverse applications and
forward-thinking approaches to digital identity in the region.
Since 2023, Taiwan’s government has been actively working
with W3C and IOTA to implement decentralized identity solu-
tions. Taiwan DID [164] is a service that provides Taiwanese
citizens with VCs once their residency has been verified.
Taiwan DID can be used for digital content subscription
services that offer different pricing and content in multiple
countries.
E. Africa
DIDs and VCs hold significant potential in addressing
identity management challenges in less technologically ad-
vanced countries such as those in Africa. Indeed, many of
the identity issues experienced in technologically advanced
countries, such as Europe and the U.S., have also recently
emerged in the second-largest continent. One major concern
is the ease of forging digital certificates, as credentials can be
easily manipulated using tools like Photoshop. This creates a
pressing need to enable easy online verification of credentials
for trainees, recruiters, and employers. VCs offer a promising
solution in this regard. For instance, Gravity Training, a
prominent provider of commercial work-at-height solutions in
South Africa, has partnered with Dock Network to embrace
the use of VCs [165]. Additionally, local initiatives like Diwala
have facilitated the use of VCs in more than 50 institutions
across nine African countries [166].
Another critical issue is broadening and facilitating access
to financial services. Kiva is a nonprofit organization that aims
to enhance financial access for underserved communities. In
2019, Sierra Leone, a West African nation of about 7 million
people, launched the National Digital Identity Platform (NDIP)
that employs the Kiva Protocol. This platform leverages DIDs
and VCs to enable fast, affordable, and secure identity verifi-
cation for citizens [167]. SSI technology can also be valuable
in facilitating birth registration. In Kenya, the use of DIDs and
VCs empower relatives to interact with health workers through
smartphones, enabling efficient birth registration and linking
mothers to their babies [168].
F . Australia and Oceania
Australia has many ongoing and proposed projects focused
on storing VCs issued by the government in device-native
or state-government wallets and applications. These initiatives
aim to facilitate seamless and secure digital identity verifica-
tion processes. Additionally, Australian jurisdictions are uti-
lizing existing applications and digital wallets for various use
cases with particular emphasis on employment and education.
For instance, when a recent graduate applies for a job or a
higher degree, they may be required to present VCs as proof of
their education [169]. However, cross-jurisdictional use cases
are also emerging, where citizens may be asked to provide
credentials issued by one or more state-level jurisdictions.
In New Zealand, the Digital Identity Services Trust Frame-
work (DISTF) Bill was approved at the beginning of 2023,
establishing the legal foundation for an open accreditation
scheme. This framework promotes the widespread use of
VCs and digital identity in everyday life [170]. For instance,
the Credentials Verification Service for the Nursing Council
of New Zealand (CVS-NCNZ) enables nurses educated and
licensed outside the country to have their credentials verified
and authenticated [171]. This service plays a crucial role in
allowing qualified nurses to work legally in New Zealand.
G. Lessons Learned
The analysis of emerging regulations, projects, and or-
ganizations underscores the global momentum behind DIDs

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 24
TABLE X
WORLDWIDE INITIATIVES ON DID S AND VCS.
Government Initiative Description
Europe eIDAS 2.0 Enables European citizens to access online services across the EU through SSI.
Europe EUDIW Secure storage for European citizens to store credentials and identity attributes, and provide them to service
providers.
Europe eSSIF-Lab An EU project promoting the adoption of SSI through a collaborative ecosystem that simplifies its
implementation and utilization for governments and enterprises.
Europe EBSI A unified platform, involving all 27 EU members Norway, and Liechtenstein, offering seamless cross-
border services.
Canada PCTF A set of rules, standards, and best practices that define how VCs can be used across Canada.
Argentina DIDI Increases trust and reduces socioeconomic and financial barriers limiting vulnerable populations’ access
to quality goods.
South Korea Busan Blockchain ID
App Enables citizens of Busan city to use DIDs for accessing smart city facilities.
China RealDID A digital identity service for verifying real-name digital identities, encrypting personal data, and certifica-
tion.
Taiwan Taiwan DID Offers digital services based on the residency of users.
Africa Diwala Leverages VCs to easily verify credentials.
Africa NDIP Securely identify citizens through DIDs and VCs.
New Zealand DISTF A framework to promote the use of VCs in daily lives.
and VCs. These technologies are not only advancing digital
identity but also empowering individuals, communities, and
organizations across continents. Table X highlights the main
initiatives worldwide.
Europe is undergoing a remarkable digital transformation,
moving towards the SSI model, as exemplified by eIDAS 2.0.
European citizens will be empowered with more control over
their data, while the introduction of the EUDIW ensures the
secure storage and sharing of DIDs and VCs. Moreover, many
countries are actively working on national SSI frameworks,
recognizing the importance of tailoring digital identity solu-
tions to local needs and regulations.
In North America, government commitment to promoting
the adoption of DIDs and VCs is evident. The U.S. DHS is cur-
rently seeking innovative solutions for the privacy-preserving
digital credential ecosystem, highlighting the potential of such
technologies. The Canadian Digital Identity and Authentica-
tion Council is shaping the Pan-Canadian Trust Framework,
emphasizing trust and interoperability in the digital identity
ecosystem.
Argentina is the most active country in South America.
The DIDI project exemplifies how DIDs and VCs can help
vulnerable populations to overcome socioeconomic and finan-
cial barriers. The use of VCs to promote climate-responsible
agriculture and secure rural credit highlights the real-world
impact these technologies can have on local communities.
Among Asian countries, South Korea stands out as one of
the leaders in adopting DIDs and VCs for digital identity
solutions. These initiatives reflect the forward-thinking ap-
proach to digital identity and its potential to transform various
sectors, including finance and public services. In late 2023,
China unveiled plans for introducing a new digital identity
service based on DIDs and VCs, supporting the vision that
these technologies will experience a significant boost in the
near future.
DIDs and VCs are also envisioned as valuable technologies
to foster inclusivity and address the unique challenges that af-
fect Africa. For example, they can enhance financial inclusion
and secure birth registration. Local initiatives like Diwala and
partnerships with organizations (e.g., Kiva) demonstrate the
adaptability and impact of DIDs and VCs in different African
contexts.
Finally, Australia and New Zealand are pursuing the
widespread adoption of DIDs and VCs. These initiatives focus
on enabling citizens to store and use government-issued VCs,
providing secure and seamless identity verification. Cross-
jurisdictional use cases demonstrate the potential of VCs to
enhance digital identity across borders.
VII. C HALLENGES & FUTURE RESEARCH DIRECTIONS
Through the extensive review of DID and VC applications,
we have identified several key challenges and outlined future
research directions.
A. Standardization
Although DIDs and VCs have been standardized by the
W3C, there are several challenges related to content and pro-
tocol standardization across different domains. One of the pri-
mary concerns is inconsistency in DID method specifications,
which vary in format, completeness, information density, and
even versioning [172]. These discrepancies pose significant
challenges for interoperability, as different DID methods may
present varying structures, making seamless integration and
verification more difficult.
Similar challenges affect the standardization of VCs. While
there are domain-specific efforts, such as the EBSI working
on educational credentials for cross-university recognition
in Europe [124], many application domains are still in the
early stages of adoption. For example, IoT lacks standardized
VC data structures for devices, hindering interoperability be-
tween IoT networks. Moreover, different industries may adopt
domain-specific standards, such as VCs for healthcare, leading
to fragmentation if they are not designed to be interoperable.
Standardization concerns extend to the protocols that regu-
late their use. Many key aspects, particularly those related to
security, remain non-normative. There is currently no consen-
sus on cryptographic algorithms, key management practices, or

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 25
lifecycle management standards for DIDs and VCs. Addition-
ally, regulatory and legal frameworks are still evolving, which
further complicates interoperability and compliance across
different jurisdictions. Initiatives like the W3C, ISO standards,
and consortiums like Trust over IP (ToIP) [21] are working
to address these challenges by promoting unified frameworks
and conducting interoperability testing to facilitate seamless
integration.
B. Scalability
Decentralized architectures based on DIDs and VCs offer
greater scalability than centralized systems. This is a natural
consequence because they do not rely on centralized author-
ities, which often become bottlenecks in traditional systems.
DLTs used for storing DID Documents do not remarkably im-
pact scalability regarding verification, as this occurs off-chain.
The DLTs are solely used to store and retrieve DID Documents
containing issuer and holder public keys. Moreover, a verifier
trusting a subset of issuers can locally store their public keys,
minimizing ledger interactions.
However, with the increasing adoption of DIDs and VCs,
scalability challenges emerge at the system level, especially
in ledger storage and maintenance. The exponential increase
in digital identities and their associated DID Documents will
place higher demands on the ledger. Although registration and
updates occur less frequently than verifications, the expanding
ledger may increase maintenance and access costs, leading to
potential bottlenecks in query efficiency. Additionally, DLT-
based systems can face network congestion during peak activ-
ity, slowing down data retrieval and raising operational costs.
To address these challenges, mechanisms like indexing,
caching, and sharding [52] can improve DID Documents
retrieval. Indexing can allow faster lookups, while caching can
store frequently accessed data locally to minimize interactions
with the ledger. Sharding allows splitting the ledger into
smaller, more manageable parts, allowing for parallelized
access and reducing latency.
Ongoing research in selective disclosure protocols [45] aims
to minimize storage requirements for holders and the amount
of data processed during verification. By 2026, identity owners
are expected to manage multiple VCs issued by various or-
ganizations [147], making it essential to develop mechanisms
that enable holders to maintain minimal additional information
while selectively disclosing subsets of their claims. These
protocols also reduce the data transmitted during verification,
alleviating strain on communication channels, minimizing
bandwidth usage, and enhancing verification efficiency
As the volume of issued VCs grows, novel efficient revo-
cation mechanisms become increasingly important to ensure
that revocation information can be transmitted and stored
without overwhelming the network or consuming excessive
storage. Techniques such as cryptographic accumulators and
tail files represent promising approaches for optimizing revo-
cation management [59].
C. Usability
The complexity of managing new forms of digital identities
may pose a significant barrier to their adoption, particularly
for average users. To address this, by 2026, all EU member
states must develop a secure and user-friendly tool that allows
European citizens to easily manage their digital identity for
accessing public and private services both online and offline
(e.g., via Bluetooth or NFC) [173]. This tool will integrate a
wide range of digital documents, from academic credentials
to driving licenses [174]. To promote their broad adoption,
digital wallets must offer intuitive interfaces that abstract the
complexity of the underlying technology. Individuals should
be able to manage their credentials with simple, clear options
for sharing data during verifications while retaining full control
over their digital identities. Consent management must be user-
friendly, with straightforward prompts clearly explaining the
implications of sharing personal information.
To further enhance the user experience, visual workflows
and step-by-step guided processes for presenting VCs can
make interactions seamless. Additionally, these wallets should
support cross-platform interoperability, allowing users to ac-
cess multiple services without needing different wallets. In-
teroperability requires adherence to common standards, such
as those established by the W3C for DIDs and VCs. This
ensures compatibility between different digital identity sys-
tems and avoids fragmentation, enabling both users and service
providers to integrate digital identities into their existing
workflows efficiently.
Moreover, automated features for managing the credential
lifecycle should be integrated to reduce the manual burden
on users. This includes notifications for credential renewals,
automatic updates, and alerts for revocation or expiration,
streamlining the process for users unfamiliar with digital iden-
tity management. Digital identity systems should be designed
to operate seamlessly across multiple devices. By synchroniz-
ing credentials between mobile, desktop, and other platforms,
users can manage and verify their credentials from anywhere,
enhancing both convenience and accessibility. For instance,
interoperability between wallets and identity-verification ser-
vices across platforms and jurisdictions will be critical in
creating a cohesive user experience, particularly for travelers
or individuals interacting with international services. Wallet
interoperability must also account for region-specific legal
requirements because differing privacy laws in regions like
the EU and the U.S. can influence how VCs are managed and
shared, which affects cross-jurisdictional interoperability.
D. Integration
DIDs and VCs represent a paradigm shift in digital identity
management, and their integration with the existing digital
identity ecosystem presents both opportunities and challenges.
One of the major concerns is the lack of a collaborative
environment where a community of trusted issuers actively
participates. Currently, only a limited number of entities are
ready to issue VCs. Although traditional issuers of digital
credentials may initially be unwilling to issue signed variants
like VCs [133], the potential of these technologies could foster
greater collaboration and engagement from them.
DIDs and VCs have the potential to significantly enhance
digital identity ecosystems. For example, social media could

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 26
leverage these technologies to create verified accounts, ad-
dressing concerns about bot activity and creating a safer online
environment [175]. In this scenario, VCs play a key role by
enabling individuals to prove the authenticity of the infor-
mation required to create an account. Notably, by employing
selective disclosure, only the necessary information would be
revealed, preserving user privacy. Similar considerations can
be extended to other digital identity environments. DIDs and
VCs could eventually replace traditional government-issued
IDs. Governments could use VCs to provide secure, tamper-
proof identity verification while giving citizens greater control
over their data.
However, this transformation also brings technical changes.
Identity owners will need a digital wallet to manage their
credentials and must undergo a registration procedure that typ-
ically involves an initial verification step. Moreover, existing
digital identity systems will adapt to support decentralized
verification, issuance, and revocation of VCs. For example,
service providers would need public keys from a verifiable
data registry to directly authenticate the ownership and validity
of the presented credentials. While this may face resistance
from established identity providers, regulatory frameworks like
GDPR could help to overcome such aversion.
To ensure seamless integration, interoperability frameworks
like DIDComm [176] can address challenges arising from dif-
ferences in various factors, including programming languages,
vendors, and networks. Additionally, developing robust APIs
and SDKs will enable wallet providers to integrate seamlessly
with various services, enhancing cross-platform compatibility
and reducing fragmentation.
In the short term, broad-scale adoption of these technologies
can be achieved by ensuring a smooth transition for legacy
systems. Overcoming the inertia associated with legacy in-
frastructure and enabling seamless interoperability between
traditional and decentralized credentialing processes will be
key to facilitating the widespread adoption of DIDs and VCs.
Thus, novel approaches that build VCs from data, available in
existing and unmodified services [177], [178], will be crucial
to promote this integration.
E. Security and Privacy
As discussed throughout the paper, although DIDs and VCs
offer many security benefits, especially in terms of privacy
and fine-grained control over personal data, there are some
security concerns that need to be further explored.
DID Management. Granting third parties access to manage
DID documents introduces potential vulnerabilities that must
be carefully addressed to ensure the integrity and security of
decentralized identities. A risk is the possibility of the DID
controller impersonating the DID owner by generating a new
key pair and modifying the public key in the DID document.
This highlights the need for robust authorization and auditing
mechanisms to detect and prevent unauthorized modifications
to DID Documents.
Currently, the public key associated with a DID is often
registered to a blockchain, making it accessible to other
nodes of the network. If the corresponding private key is
compromised, key rotation must be initiated. In such cases,
the DID owner generates a new key pair and publishes the
new public key, signed with the previous one [179]. How-
ever, the unpredictable nature of key compromises introduces
significant security challenges. Regular key pair updates are
one way to reduce the vulnerability window, but this presents
a fundamental limitationwhile it minimizes risk, it does not
eliminate it. Key rotation also introduces usability concerns,
as frequent updates can be cumbersome for users. Research
should focus on flexible key rotation mechanisms that respond
dynamically to key compromises, enabling automatic detection
and immediate revocation without relying solely on preemptive
updates [180]. Integrating MFA, such as one-time passwords
(OTP) with key rotation, adds an extra layer of security,
making it harder for attackers to steal identities even if a
private key is compromised.
VC Revocation. Despite the growing interest in VCs, there
remains a significant gap in research focused on developing
novel and efficient revocation mechanism. At the time of this
paper, only one proposed specification exists, but it has not yet
achieved W3C standard status and is on the W3C standards
track. As described in Section III, this is the primary method
for revoking VCs at present. In addition, there is only one work
[59] that introduces a novel mechanism for efficient revocation
of VCs, specifically designed for IoT networks.
The field of VC revocation presents a range of unexplored
research opportunities. The scalability of current approaches,
especially in high-throughput environments or those involving
constrained devices, like IoT networks, is underexplored.
Additionally, novel approaches that leverage cryptographic
accumulators and ZKP could further enhance reliability and
security across different contexts. Another promising research
direction involves revocation solutions interoperable across
various decentralized systems.
Accountability. Ensuring privacy while simultaneously ad-
hering to existing regulations, such as Know-Your-Customer
(KYC) [181] and Anti-Money-Laundering (AML) [182], poses
a significant challenge for DIDs. DIDs are designed with
privacy preservation as a core objective, but reconciling this
feature with the need to screen users presents several com-
plexities. Modern systems leveraging DIDs should meet these
regulations and be able to screen users of the system. Specif-
ically, they should be able to identify and validate credentials
associated with users. This becomes crucial for screening
individuals against various lists, such as sanctions lists, to
determine if any preventative actions, like blacklisting, are
warranted.
Privacy. Research in this domain should explore novel meth-
ods that seamlessly integrate privacy-preserving features while
ensuring compliance with regulatory measures. This involves
developing cryptographic techniques or privacy-enhancing
protocols that enables DIDs to provide verifiable information
without exposing sensitive details of users.
A key area for further exploration is selective disclosure
within VCs, which allows users to reveal only specific claims
without sharing unnecessary information. While SD-JWT rep-
resents a widely accepted solution, it still presents some

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 27
challenges. Notably, the size of the credential grows linearly
with the number of claims, which can significantly impact end-
user storage requirements. Furthermore, although SD-JWT
conceals the content of hidden claims, it discloses the exact
number of claims included, which introduces privacy concerns.
This detail could be exploited for inference attacks, where
adversaries may deduce sensitive information based on the
number of undisclosed claims [183], [184].
VIII. C ONCLUSIONS
This article presents a comprehensive survey on DIDs and
VCs, two building blocks to authenticate and authorize entities
in the modern digital landscape, enabling secure and trustwor-
thy communication. We analyze DIDs and VCs in terms of
threats and mitigation, implementations, application domains,
and regulations. Our analysis of the available implementations
offers developers valuable insights into the features of existing
libraries, aiding informed decision-making across frameworks.
The review of the application DIDs and VCs demonstrates
that their utility goes far beyond SSI systems. Furthermore,
we examine global initiatives and projects led by governments
and political institutions, showcasing the growing adoption of
these technologies. Finally, we discuss emerging challenges
and outline future research directions, providing a valuable
foundation for ongoing studies in this field.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was partially supported by the project SER-
ICS (PE00000014) under the MUR National Recovery and
Resilience Plan program funded by the European Union -
NextGenerationEU, the U.S. National Science Foundation’s
Intergovernmental Personnel Act Independent Research & De-
velopment Program, and Cyber Florida. The views expressed
by the authors in this paper are their own, not those of the
funding entities.
REFERENCES
[1] P. A. Grassi, M. E. Garcia, and J. L. Fenton, “Digital identity guide-
lines,” NIST special publication , vol. 800, pp. 63–3, 2017.
[2] K.-Y . Lam and C.-H. Chi, “Identity in the Internet-of-Things (IoT):
New Challenges and Opportunities,” in Information and Communi-
cations Security , K.-Y . Lam, C.-H. Chi, and S. Qing, Eds. Cham:
Springer International Publishing, 2016, pp. 18–26.
[3] K. Shafique, B. A. Khawaja, F. Sabir, S. Qazi, and M. Mustaqim, “In-
ternet of Things (IoT) for Next-Generation Smart Systems: A Review
of Current Challenges, Future Trends and Prospects for Emerging 5G-
IoT Scenarios,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 23 022–23 040, 2020.
[4] M. A. Olivero, A. Bertolino, F. J. Domnguez-Mayo, M. J. Escalona,
and I. Matteucci, “Digital persona portrayal: Identifying pluridentity
vulnerabilities in digital life,” Journal of Information Security and
Applications, vol. 52, p. 102492, 2020.
[5] S. Alneyadi, E. Sithirasenan, and V . Muthukkumarasamy, “A survey on
data leakage prevention systems,” Journal of Network and Computer
Applications, vol. 62, pp. 137–152, 2016.
[6] A. Shabtai, Y . Elovici, and L. Rokach, A survey of data leakage
detection and prevention solutions . Springer Science & Business
Media, 2012.
[7] P. C. Bartolomeu, E. Vieira, S. M. Hosseini, and J. Ferreira, “Self-
Sovereign Identity: Use-cases, Technologies, and Challenges for Indus-
trial IoT,” in 2019 24th IEEE International Conference on Emerging
Technologies and Factory Automation (ETFA), 2019, pp. 1173–1180.
[8] M. Alizadeh, K. Andersson, and O. Scheln, “Comparative Analysis of
Decentralized Identity Approaches,” IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 92 273–
92 283, 2022.
[9] EU, “Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural
persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on
the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC
(General Data Protection Regulation),” 2016. [Online]. Available:
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2016/679/oj/eng
[10] A. Mhle, A. Grner, T. Gayvoronskaya, and C. Meinel, “A survey on
essential components of a self-sovereign identity,” Computer Science
Review, vol. 30, pp. 80–86, 2018.
[11] W3 Recommendation, “Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) v1.0,” 2022.
[Online]. Available: https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/
[12] W. Recommendation, “Verifiable Credentials Data Model v1.1,” 2022.
[Online]. Available: https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/
[13] S. Cucko and M. Turkanovi, “Decentralized and Self-Sovereign Iden-
tity: Systematic Mapping Study,” IEEE Access , vol. 9, pp. 139 009–
139 027, 2021.
[14] R. Soltani, U. T. Nguyen, and A. An, “A Survey of Self-Sovereign
Identity Ecosystem,” Security and Communication Networks, vol. 2021,
p. 8873429, Jul 2021.
[15] Y . Bai, H. Lei, S. Li, H. Gao, J. Li, and L. Li, “Decentralized and
Self-Sovereign Identity in the Era of Blockchain: A Survey,” in 2022
IEEE International Conference on Blockchain (Blockchain) , 2022, pp.
500–507.
[16] F. Schardong and R. Custdio, “Self-sovereign identity: A systematic
review, mapping and taxonomy,” Sensors, vol. 22, no. 15, 2022.
[17] J. Ernstberger, J. Lauinger, F. Elsheimy, L. Zhou, S. Steinhorst,
R. Canetti, A. Miller, A. Gervais, and D. Song, “SoK: Data
Sovereignty,” in 2023 IEEE 8th European Symposium on Security and
Privacy (EuroS&P), 2023, pp. 122–143.
[18] E. Krul, H.-y. Paik, S. Ruj, and S. S. Kanhere, “SoK: Trusting Self-
Sovereign Identity,” Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies ,
2024.
[19] K. L. Tan, C.-H. Chi, and K.-Y . Lam, “Survey on Digital Sovereignty
and Identity: From Digitization to Digitalization,” ACM Comput. Surv.,
vol. 56, no. 3, Oct. 2023.
[20] A. Satybaldy, M. S. Ferdous, and M. Nowostawski, “A Taxonomy of
Challenges for Self-Sovereign Identity Systems,” IEEE Access, vol. 12,
pp. 16 151–16 177, 2024.
[21] M. Davie, D. Gisolfi, D. Hardman, J. Jordan, D. O’Donnell, and
D. Reed, “The Trust over IP Stack,” IEEE Communications Standards
Magazine, vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 46–51, 2019.
[22] European Union, “Regulation (EU) 2024/1183 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2024 on European digital
identity wallets,” 2024, accessed: 2024-10-13. [Online]. Available:
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1183/oj
[23] L. Ante, C. Fischer, and E. Strehle, “A bibliometric review of research
on digital identity: Research streams, influential works and future
research paths,” Journal of Manufacturing Systems , vol. 62, pp. 523–
538, 2022.
[24] D. P ¨ohn and W. Hommel, “An Overview of Limitations and Ap-
proaches in Identity Management,” in Proceedings of the 15th Interna-
tional Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security , ser. ARES
’20. New York, NY , USA: Association for Computing Machinery,
2020.
[25] M. Yıldırım and I. Mackie, “Encouraging users to improve password
security and memorability,” International Journal of Information Se-
curity, vol. 18, no. 6, pp. 741–759, Dec 2019.
[26] H. Saleem and M. Naveed, “Sok: Anatomy of data breaches,” Proceed-
ings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies , 2020.
[27] P. Mayer, Y . Zou, F. Schaub, and A. J. Aviv, “”Now I’m a
bit angry:” Individuals’ Awareness, Perception, and Responses to
Data Breaches that Affected Them,” in 30th USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Security 21) . USENIX Association, Aug. 2021,
pp. 393–410. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/
usenixsecurity21/presentation/mayer
[28] D. Zhe, W. Qinghong, S. Naizheng, and Z. Yuhan, “Study on Data
Security Policy Based on Cloud Storage,” in2017 ieee 3rd international
conference on big data security on cloud (bigdatasecurity), ieee inter-
national conference on high performance and smart computing (hpsc),
and ieee international conference on intelligent data and security (ids) ,
2017, pp. 145–149.
[29] D. W. Chadwick, Federated Identity Management. Berlin, Heidelberg:
Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2009, pp. 96–120.
[30] A. Armando, R. Carbone, L. Compagna, J. Cuellar, and L. Tobarra,
“Formal Analysis of SAML 2.0 Web Browser Single Sign-on: Breaking
the SAML-Based Single Sign-on for Google Apps,” in Proceedings of
the 6th ACM Workshop on Formal Methods in Security Engineering ,

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 28
ser. FMSE ’08. New York, NY , USA: Association for Computing
Machinery, 2008, p. 110.
[31] A. A. Malik, H. Anwar, and M. A. Shibli, “Federated Identity Man-
agement (FIM): Challenges and opportunities,” in 2015 Conference on
Information Assurance and Cyber Security (CIACS) , 2015, pp. 75–82.
[32] R. Laborde, A. Oglaza, S. Wazan, F. Barrere, A. Benzekri, D. W.
Chadwick, and R. Venant, “A User-Centric Identity Management
Framework based on the W3C Verifiable Credentials and the FIDO
Universal Authentication Framework,” in 2020 IEEE 17th Annual
Consumer Communications & Networking Conference (CCNC) , 2020,
pp. 1–8.
[33] D. Recordon and D. Reed, “OpenID 2.0: A Platform for User-Centric
Identity Management,” in Proceedings of the Second ACM Workshop
on Digital Identity Management , ser. DIM ’06. New York, NY , USA:
Association for Computing Machinery, 2006, p. 1116.
[34] S. Srinivas, D. Balfanz, E. Tiffany, A. Czeskis, and F. Alliance, “Uni-
versal 2nd factor (U2F) overview,” FIDO Alliance Proposed Standard,
vol. 15, 2015.
[35] D. Hardt, “The OAuth 2.0 authorization framework,” Tech. Rep., 2012.
[36] A. Jøsang, C. Rosenberger, L. Miralab ´e, H. Klevjer, K. A. Varmedal,
J. Daveau, K. E. Husa, and P. Taugbøl, “Local user-centric identity
management,” Journal of Trust Management , vol. 2, no. 1, p. 1, Jan
2015. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1186/s40493-014-0009-6
[37] A. Tobin and D. Reed, “The inevitable rise of self-sovereign identity,”
The Sovrin Foundation, vol. 29, no. 2016, p. 18, 2016.
[38] B. Cao, Z. Wang, L. Zhang, D. Feng, M. Peng, L. Zhang, and Z. Han,
“Blockchain Systems, Technologies, and Applications: A Methodology
Perspective,”IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 25, no. 1,
pp. 353–385, 2023.
[39] M. S. Ferdous, F. Chowdhury, and M. O. Alassafi, “In Search of Self-
Sovereign Identity Leveraging Blockchain Technology,” IEEE Access,
vol. 7, pp. 103 059–103 079, 2019.
[40] W. Recommendation, “World Wide Web Consortium,” 2021. [Online].
Available: https://www.w3.org/
[41] M. Sabadello, “A universal resolver for self-sovereign identifiers,”
Decentralized Identity Foundation, 2017.
[42] I. Foundation, “Peer DID Method Specification,” 2021. [Online].
Available: https://identity.foundation/peer-did-method-spec/
[43] B. Alangot, P. Szalachowski, T. T. A. Dinh, S. Meftah, J. I. Gana,
K. M. M. Aung, and Z. Li, “Decentralized Identity Authentication with
Auditability and Privacy,” Algorithms, vol. 16, no. 1, 2023.
[44] M. Sabadello, K. Den Hartog, C. Lundkvist, C. Franz, A. Elias,
A. Hughes, J. Jordan, and D. Zagidulin, “Introduction to did auth,”
Rebooting the Web of Trust VI , 2018.
[45] eila Beirovi Rami, E. Cogo, I. Prazina, E. Cogo, M. Turkanovi,
R. T. Mulahasanovi, and S. Mrdovi, “Selective disclosure in digital
credentials: A review,” ICT Express, 2024.
[46] A. Flamini, G. Sciarretta, M. Scuro, A. Sharif, A. Tomasi,
and S. Ranise, “On cryptographic mechanisms for the selective
disclosure of verifiable credentials,” Journal of Information Security
and Applications , vol. 83, p. 103789, 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212624000929
[47] D. Fett, K. Yasuda, and B. Campbell, “Selective Disclosure
for JWTs (SD-JWT),” in Selective Disclosure for JWTs (SD-
JWT). IETF, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://www.ietf.org/archive/
id/draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt-07.html
[48] M. Alizadeh, K. Andersson, and O. Scheln, “Performance Analysis
of Verifiable Data Registry Solutions for Decentralized Identifiers,” in
2022 IEEE Asia-Pacific Conference on Computer Science and Data
Engineering (CSDE), 2022, pp. 1–8.
[49] J. Garc ´ıa-Rodr´ıguez, R. Torres Moreno, J. Bernal Bernab ´e, and
A. Skarmeta, “Towards a Standardized Model for Privacy-Preserving
Verifiable Credentials,” in Proceedings of the 16th International Con-
ference on Availability, Reliability and Security , ser. ARES ’21. New
York, NY , USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2021.
[50] P. Dunphy and F. A. Petitcolas, “A First Look at Identity Management
Schemes on the Blockchain,” IEEE Security & Privacy , vol. 16, no. 4,
pp. 20–29, 2018.
[51] W. Zou, D. Lo, P. S. Kochhar, X.-B. D. Le, X. Xia, Y . Feng,
Z. Chen, and B. Xu, “Smart Contract Development: Challenges and
Opportunities,” IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering , vol. 47,
no. 10, pp. 2084–2106, 2021.
[52] B. Alzahrani, “An Information-Centric Networking Based Registry
for Decentralized Identifiers and Verifiable Credentials,” IEEE Access,
vol. 8, pp. 137 198–137 208, 2020.
[53] R. Soltani, U. T. Nguyen, and A. An, “Practical Key Recovery Model
for Self-Sovereign Identity Based Digital Wallets,” in 2019 IEEE Intl
Conf on Dependable, Autonomic and Secure Computing, Intl Conf on
Pervasive Intelligence and Computing, Intl Conf on Cloud and Big
Data Computing, Intl Conf on Cyber Science and Technology Congress
(DASC/PiCom/CBDCom/CyberSciTech), 2019, pp. 320–325.
[54] S. Khan, F. Luo, Z. Zhang, F. Ullah, F. Amin, S. F. Qadri, M. B. B.
Heyat, R. Ruby, L. Wang, S. Ullah, M. Li, V . C. M. Leung, and
K. Wu, “A Survey on X.509 Public-Key Infrastructure, Certificate
Revocation, and Their Modern Implementation on Blockchain and
Ledger Technologies,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials ,
vol. 25, no. 4, pp. 2529–2568, 2023.
[55] S. Santesson, M. Myers, R. Ankney, A. Malpani, S. Galperin, and
C. Adams, “X. 509 internet public key infrastructure online certificate
status protocol-ocsp,” Tech. Rep., 2013.
[56] D. Cooper, S. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, R. Housley, and
W. Polk, “Internet X. 509 public key infrastructure certificate and
certificate revocation list (CRL) profile,” Tech. Rep., 2008.
[57] W. Recommendation, “Revocation List 2020,” 2021. [Online].
Available: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-status-rl-2020/
[58] J.-l. Gailly and M. Adler, “Zlib compression library,” 2004.
[59] C. Mazzocca, A. Acar, S. Uluagac, and R. Montanari,
“EVOKE: Efficient revocation of verifiable credentials in IoT
networks,” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security
24). Philadelphia, PA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2024, pp.
1279–1295. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/
usenixsecurity24/presentation/mazzocca
[60] Z. Zhang, M. Kr ´ol, A. Sonnino, L. Zhang, and E. Rivi `ere, “EL
PASSO: efficient and lightweight privacy-preserving single sign on,”
Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies , 2021.
[61] X. de Carn ´e de Carnavalet and P. C. van Oorschot, “A Survey and
Analysis of TLS Interception Mechanisms and Motivations: Exploring
how end-to-end TLS is made end-to-me for web traffic,” ACM Comput.
Surv., vol. 55, no. 13s, jul 2023.
[62] DIDKit, “DIDKit.” [Online]. Available: https://www.spruceid.dev/
didkit/didkit
[63] I. Fundation, “IOTA Identity Framework.” [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/iotaledger/identity.rs
[64] Hyperledger, “Hyperledger Aries.” [Online]. Available: https://www.
hyperledger.org/projects/aries
[65] Microsoft, “Microsoft Entra Wallet Library.” [Online]. Avail-
able: https://github.com/microsoft/entra-verifiedid-wallet-library-ios#
microsoft-entra-wallet-library
[66] Veramo, “Veramo.” [Online]. Available: https://veramo.io/
[67] I. Agudo, M. Montenegro-Gmez, and J. Lopez, “A Blockchain Ap-
proach for Decentralized V2X (D-V2X),” IEEE Transactions on Ve-
hicular Technology, vol. 70, no. 5, pp. 4001–4010, 2021.
[68] A. Nepal, R. Doss, and F. Jiang, “Secure data provenance for internet of
vehicles with verifiable credentials,” in 2023 IEEE 14th Annual Ubiq-
uitous Computing, Electronics & Mobile Communication Conference
(UEMCON), 2023, pp. 0210–0218.
[69] W. Yao, Y . Liu, F. P. Deek, G. Wang, and Y . Wu, “VDKMS: Vehicular
Decentralized Key Management System for Cellular Vehicular-to-
Everything Networks, A Blockchain-Based Approach,” in GLOBE-
COM 2023 - 2023 IEEE Global Communications Conference , 2023,
pp. 7526–7531.
[70] P. Michalopoulos, J. Meijers, S. F. Singh, and A. Veneris, “A V2X
Reputation System with Privacy Considerations,” in 2022 IEEE 13th
International Conference on Software Engineering and Service Science
(ICSESS), 2022, pp. 8–14.
[71] X. Li, T. Jing, R. Li, H. Li, X. Wang, and D. Shen, “BDRA:
Blockchain and Decentralized Identifiers Assisted Secure Registration
and Authentication for V ANETs,”IEEE Internet of Things Journal, pp.
1–1, 2022.
[72] P. C. Bartolomeu, J. Bernardino, and J. Ferreira, “Decentralized Ad-
Hoc Seaport Truck Authentication,” in 2022 IEEE 19th Annual Con-
sumer Communications & Networking Conference (CCNC) , 2022, pp.
417–420.
[73] S. Terzi, C. Savvaidis, A. Sersemis, K. V otis, and D. Tzovaras, “Decen-
tralizing Identity Management and Vehicle Rights Delegation through
Self-Sovereign Identities and Blockchain,” in 2021 IEEE 45th Annual
Computers, Software, and Applications Conference (COMPSAC), 2021,
pp. 1217–1223.
[74] D. Wilms, C. Stoecker, and J. Caballero, “Data Provenance in Vehicle
Data Chains,” in 2021 IEEE 93rd Vehicular Technology Conference
(VTC2021-Spring), 2021, pp. 1–5.

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 29
[75] N. Prakash, D. G. Michelson, and C. Feng, “CVIN: Connected Ve-
hicle Information Network,” in 2020 IEEE 91st Vehicular Technology
Conference (VTC2020-Spring), 2020, pp. 1–6.
[76] M. Kim, J. Lee, J. Oh, K. Park, Y . Park, and K. Park, “Blockchain
based energy trading scheme for vehicle-to-vehicle using decentralized
identifiers,” Applied Energy, vol. 322, p. 119445, 2022.
[77] A. Kailus, D. Kern, and C. Krauß, “Self-sovereign Identity for Electric
Vehicle Charging,” in Applied Cryptography and Network Security ,
C. P ¨opper and L. Batina, Eds. Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland,
2024, pp. 137–162.
[78] R. P. Parameswarath, P. Gope, and B. Sikdar, “User-empowered
privacy-preserving authentication protocol for electric vehicle charging
based on decentralized identity and verifiable credential,” ACM Trans.
Manage. Inf. Syst. , vol. 13, no. 4, aug 2022.
[79] S. Di Martino, E. Landolfi, N. Mazzocca, F. Rocco di Torrepadula,
and L. L. L. Starace, “A visual-based toolkit to support mobility data
analytics,” Expert Systems with Applications, vol. 238, p. 121949, 2024.
[80] A. Feraudo, A. Calvio, A. Bujari, and P. Bellavista, “A Novel De-
sign for Advanced 5G Deployment Environments with Virtualized
Resources at Vehicular and MEC Nodes,” in 2023 IEEE Vehicular
Networking Conference (VNC) , 2023, pp. 97–103.
[81] R. K. Jurgen, V2V/V2I communications for improved road safety and
efficiency. SAE International, 2012, vol. 154.
[82] “ Mobility Open Blocjchain Initative (MOBI).” [Online]. Available:
https://dlt.mobi/
[83] S. Khan, F. Luo, Z. Zhang, M. A. Rahim, M. Ahmad, and K. Wu,
“Survey on Issues and Recent Advances in Vehicular Public-Key
Infrastructure (VPKI),” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials ,
vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 1574–1601, 2022.
[84] M. Campaa, E. Inga, and J. Crdenas, “Optimal Sizing of Electric
Vehicle Charging Stations Considering Urban Traffic Flow for Smart
Cities,” Energies, vol. 14, no. 16, 2021.
[85] Road vehicles - Vehicle-to-Grid Communication Interface - Part 2:
Network and Application Protocol Requirements, International Organi-
zation for Standardization Std. ISO/DIS 15 118-2:2018, Dec. 2018.
[86] M. Eisenstadt, M. Ramachandran, N. Chowdhury, A. Third, and
J. Domingue, “COVID-19 Antibody Test/Vaccination Certification:
There’s an App for That,” IEEE Open Journal of Engineering in
Medicine and Biology , vol. 1, pp. 148–155, 2020.
[87] A. Abid, S. Cheikhrouhou, S. Kallel, and M. Jmaiel, “Novid-
Chain: Blockchain-based privacy-preserving platform for COVID-19
test/vaccine certificates,” Software: Practice and Experience , vol. 52,
no. 4, pp. 841–867, 2022.
[88] M. Abubakar, P. McCarron, Z. Jaroucheh, A. Al Dubai, and
B. Buchanan, “Blockchain-based Platform for Secure Sharing and
Validation of Vaccination Certificates,” in 2021 14th International
Conference on Security of Information and Networks (SIN) , vol. 1,
2021, pp. 1–8.
[89] F. A. Rafid, E. Benissan, L. Murr, I. Ermakov, K. Oikonomou, and
P. Zhang, “A Decentralized Identity System for Accelerating Medical
Communications within Rare Disease Communities,” in 2022 IEEE In-
ternational Conference on Blockchain, Smart Healthcare and Emerging
Technologies (SmartBlock4Health), 2022, pp. 1–8.
[90] H. Saidi, N. Labraoui, A. A. A. Ari, L. A. Maglaras, and J. H. M. Emati,
“Dsmac: Privacy-aware decentralized self-management of data access
control based on blockchain for health data,” IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp.
101 011–101 028, 2022.
[91] C. Pujari, B. Muniyal, C. C. B, and M. Rajarajan, “A User-Centric Self-
Sovereign Identity-Based Authentication Framework for Decentralized
Data Management in Healthcare Settings,” in 2023 International Con-
ference on Recent Advances in Information Technology for Sustainable
Development (ICRAIS), 2023, pp. 89–94.
[92] H. Kasyap and S. Tripathy, “Privacy-Preserving Decentralized Learning
Framework for Healthcare System,” ACM Trans. Multimedia Comput.
Commun. Appl., vol. 17, no. 2s, jun 2021.
[93] A. M. Alnour and K. H. Kim, “Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)-
Based Authentication Scheme for Smart Health Care System,” in
2022 Thirteenth International Conference on Ubiquitous and Future
Networks (ICUFN), 2022, pp. 443–438.
[94] D. Yoon, S. Moon, K. Park, and S. Noh, “Blockchain-based Personal
Data Trading System using Decentralized Identifiers and Verifiable
Credentials,” in 2021 International Conference on Information and
Communication Technology Convergence (ICTC), 2021, pp. 150–154.
[95] Z. Wang, Z. Yang, and T. Dong, “A Review of Wearable Technologies
for Elderly Care that Can Accurately Track Indoor Position, Recognize
Physical Activities and Monitor Vital Signs in Real Time,” Sensors,
vol. 17, no. 2, 2017.
[96] P. Bellavista, L. Foschini, and A. Mora, “Decentralised Learning in
Federated Deployment Environments: A System-Level Survey,” ACM
Comput. Surv., vol. 54, no. 1, feb 2021.
[97] P. Gope and T. Hwang, “BSN-Care: A secure IoT-based modern
healthcare system using body sensor network,” IEEE sensors journal ,
vol. 16, no. 5, pp. 1368–1376, 2015.
[98] A. Sghaier Omar and O. Basir, “Decentralized Identifiers and Verifiable
Credentials for Smartphone Anticounterfeiting and Decentralized IMEI
Database,” Canadian Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering ,
vol. 43, no. 3, pp. 174–180, 2020.
[99] R. Ansey, J. Kempf, O. Berzin, C. Xi, and I. Sheikh, “Gnomon:
Decentralized Identifiers for Securing 5G Iot Device Registration and
Software Update,” in 2019 IEEE Globecom Workshops (GC Wkshps) ,
2019, pp. 1–6.
[100] G. Pescetelli, L. Petrosino, S. D. Valle, G. Ronga, M. Merone, and
L. V ollero, “Framework for IoT ecosystems based on distributed ledger
technologies and decentralized identifiers,” in 2022 IEEE International
Workshop on Metrology for Industry 4.0 & IoT (MetroInd4.0&IoT) ,
2022, pp. 87–91.
[101] C. Mazzocca, N. Romandini, M. Mendula, R. Montanari, and P. Bellav-
ista, “TruFLaaS: Trustworthy Federated Learning as a Service,” IEEE
Internet of Things Journal , pp. 1–1, 2023.
[102] P. Bellavista, L. Foschini, R. Montanari, and N. Romandini,
“FlowChain: The Playground for Federated Learning in Industrial
Internet of Things Environments,” IEEE Internet of Things Magazine ,
vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 78–83, 2022.
[103] Y . Li, W. Yang, P. He, C. Chen, and X. Wang, “Design and management
of a distributed hybrid energy system through smart contract and
blockchain,” Applied Energy, vol. 248, pp. 390–405, 2019.
[104] S. Hartnett, J. Morris, and I. Vlachos, “Chapter 16 - EW Flex:
A decentralized flexibility marketplace fostering TSO-DSO coopera-
tion,” in Mathematical Modelling of Contemporary Electricity Markets,
A. Dagoumas, Ed. Academic Press, 2021, pp. 279–286.
[105] B. Kim, W. Shin, D.-Y . Hwang, and K.-H. Kim, “Attribute-Based Ac-
cess Control(ABAC) with Decentralized Identifier in the Blockchain-
Based Energy Transaction Platform,” in 2021 International Conference
on Information Networking (ICOIN) , 2021, pp. 845–848.
[106] M. T., K. Makkithaya, and N. V .G., “A trusted IoT data sharing and se-
cure oracle based access for agricultural production risk management,”
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture , vol. 204, p. 107544, 2023.
[107] L. Cocco, R. Tonelli, and M. Marchesi, “Blockchain and Self Sovereign
Identity to Support Quality in the Food Supply Chain,” Future Internet,
vol. 13, no. 12, 2021.
[108] Y . Mezquita, B. Podgorelec, A. B. Gil-Gonzlez, and J. M. Corchado,
“Blockchain-Based Supply Chain Systems, Interoperability Model in a
Pharmaceutical Case Study,” Sensors, vol. 23, no. 4, 2023.
[109] B. Xia, D. Zhang, Y . Liu, Q. Lu, Z. Xing, and L. Zhu, “Trust in
Software Supply Chains: Blockchain-Enabled SBOM and the AIBOM
Future,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.02088 , 2023.
[110] S. B. Shams, A. Kind, F. A. Jaeger, G. Beitinger, I. A. Leonte,
M. Weinhold, and V . Pham, “Trustworthy Supply Chain Exchange for
Product Carbon Footprint,” in 2023 IEEE International Conference on
Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain, and Internet of Things (AIBThings) ,
2023, pp. 1–6.
[111] L. Patera, A. Garbugli, A. Bujari, D. Scotece, and A. Corradi, “A
Layered Middleware for OT/IT Convergence to Empower Industry 5.0
Applications,” Sensors, vol. 22, no. 1, 2022.
[112] B.-h. Li, B.-c. Hou, W.-t. Yu, X.-b. Lu, and C.-w. Yang, “Applica-
tions of artificial intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review,”
Frontiers of Information Technology & Electronic Engineering, vol. 18,
no. 1, pp. 86–96, Jan 2017.
[113] Y . Ren, R. Xie, F. R. Yu, T. Huang, and Y . Liu, “Potential Identity
Resolution Systems for the Industrial Internet of Things: A Survey,”
IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials , vol. 23, no. 1, pp. 391–
430, 2021.
[114] R. Venanzi, S. Dahdal, M. Solimando, L. Campioni, A. Cavalucci,
M. Govoni, M. Tortonesi, L. Foschini, L. Attana, M. Tellarini, and
C. Stefanelli, “Enabling adaptive analytics at the edge with the Bi-Rex
Big Data platform,” Computers in Industry, vol. 147, p. 103876, 2023.
[115] A. De Benedictis, N. Mazzocca, A. Somma, and C. Strigaro, “Digital
Twins in Healthcare: An Architectural Proposal and Its Application
in a Social Distancing Case Study,” IEEE Journal of Biomedical and
Health Informatics, vol. 27, no. 10, pp. 5143–5154, 2023.
[116] S. West, O. Stoll, J. Meierhofer, and S. Zst, “Digital Twin Pro-
viding New Opportunities for Value Co-Creation through Supporting
Decision-Making,” Applied Sciences, vol. 11, no. 9, 2021.

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 30
[117] Z. Pervez, Z. Khan, A. Ghafoor, and K. Soomro, “SIGNED: Smart
cIty diGital twiN vErifiable Data Framework,” IEEE Access , vol. 11,
pp. 29 430–29 446, 2023.
[118] A. De Salve, A. Lisi, P. Mori, L. Ricci, and C. Turco, “Self-Sovereign
Identity for Privacy-Preserving Shipping Verification System,” in Pro-
ceedings of the 2022 5th International Conference on Blockchain
Technology and Applications, ser. ICBTA ’22. New York, NY , USA:
Association for Computing Machinery, 2023, p. 147157.
[119] J. Li, Q. He, R. Liang, and B. Jiang, “Smart Tourism Identity Authen-
tication Service Based on BlockChain and Decentralized Identifier,” in
Blockchain and Trustworthy Systems , H.-N. Dai, X. Liu, D. X. Luo,
J. Xiao, and X. Chen, Eds. Singapore: Springer Singapore, 2021, pp.
545–558.
[120] M. Y . Baer, T. Bykbee, and M. Kizildag, “What if we could travel
without passport? First sight to blockchain-based identity management
in tourism,” Asia Pacific Journal of Tourism Research , vol. 28, no. 4,
pp. 341–363, 2023.
[121] E. Wolz, M. Gottlieb, and H. Pongratz, “Digital Credentials in Higher
Education Institutions: A Literature Review,” in Innovation Through
Information Systems , F. Ahlemann, R. Sch ¨utte, and S. Stieglitz, Eds.
Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2021, pp. 125–140.
[122] R. Q. Saramago, L. Jehl, H. Meling, and V . Estrada-Galianes, “A Tree-
based Construction for Verifiable Diplomas with Issuer Transparency,”
in 2021 IEEE International Conference on Decentralized Applications
and Infrastructures (DAPPS), 2021, pp. 101–110.
[123] D. Serranito, A. Vasconcelos, S. Guerreiro, and M. Correia,
“Blockchain Ecosystem for Verifiable Qualifications,” in 2020 2nd
Conference on Blockchain Research & Applications for Innovative
Networks and Services (BRAINS) , 2020, pp. 192–199.
[124] E. Tan, E. Lerouge, J. Du Caju, and D. Du Seuil, “Verification of
Education Credentials on European Blockchain Services Infrastructure
(EBSI): Action Research in a Cross-Border Use Case between Belgium
and Italy,” Big Data and Cognitive Computing , vol. 7, no. 2, 2023.
[125] P. Herbke and H. Yildiz, “ELMO2EDS: Transforming Educational
Credentials into Self-Sovereign Identity Paradigm,” in 2022 20th
International Conference on Information Technology Based Higher
Education and Training (ITHET) , 2022, pp. 1–7.
[126] P. N. Mahalle and G. R. Shinde, OAuth-Based Authorization and Del-
egation in Smart Home for the Elderly Using Decentralized Identifiers
and Verifiable Credentials. Singapore: Springer Singapore, 2021, pp.
95–109.
[127] N. Fotiou, V . A. Siris, G. C. Polyzos, Y . Kortesniemi, and D. Lagutin,
“Capabilities-based access control for IoT devices using Verifiable
Credentials,” in 2022 IEEE Security and Privacy Workshops (SPW) ,
2022, pp. 222–228.
[128] . Doan and H. Karacan, “A Blockchain-Based E-Commerce Reputation
System Built With Verifiable Credentials,” IEEE Access , vol. 11, pp.
47 080–47 097, 2023.
[129] A. Sabbioni, T. Villano, and A. Corradi, “An Architecture for Ser-
vice Integration to Fully Support Novel Personalized Smart Tourism
Offerings,” Sensors, vol. 22, no. 4, 2022.
[130] H. Chen, “This world-class airport will
soon go passport-free,” Cable News Network
(CNN). [Online]. Available: https://edition.cnn.com/travel/article/
changi-airport-singapore-passport-free-travel-intl-hnk/index.html
[131] B.-C. Chifor, I. Bica, V .-V . Patriciu, and F. Pop, “A security autho-
rization scheme for smart home Internet of Things devices,” Future
Generation Computer Systems , vol. 86, pp. 740–749, 2018.
[132] M. L. Caterina Agrimonti and G. Visioli, “Smart agriculture for food
quality: facing climate change in the 21st century,” Critical Reviews
in Food Science and Nutrition , vol. 61, no. 6, pp. 971–981, 2021.
[133] D. Maram, H. Malvai, F. Zhang, N. Jean-Louis, A. Frolov, T. Kell,
T. Lobban, C. Moy, A. Juels, and A. Miller, “CanDID: Can-Do
Decentralized Identity with Legacy Compatibility, Sybil-Resistance,
and Accountability,” in 2021 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy
(SP), 2021, pp. 1348–1366.
[134] R. Chen, F. Shu, S. Huang, L. Huang, H. Liu, J. Liu, and K. Lei,
“BIdM: A Blockchain-Enabled Cross-Domain Identity Management
System,” Journal of Communications and Information Networks, vol. 6,
no. 1, pp. 44–58, 2021.
[135] J. Yin, Y . Xiao, Q. Pei, Y . Ju, L. Liu, M. Xiao, and C. Wu, “SmartDID:
A Novel Privacy-Preserving Identity Based on Blockchain for IoT,”
IEEE Internet of Things Journal , vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 6718–6732, 2023.
[136] R. Belchior, B. Putz, G. Pernul, M. Correia, A. Vasconcelos, and
S. Guerreiro, “SSIBAC: Self-Sovereign Identity Based Access Con-
trol,” in 2020 IEEE 19th International Conference on Trust, Security
and Privacy in Computing and Communications (TrustCom), 2020, pp.
1935–1943.
[137] X. Song, G. Xu, Y . Huang, and J. Dong, “Did-hvc-based web3 health-
care data security and privacy protection scheme,” Future Generation
Computer Systems, vol. 158, pp. 267–276, 2024.
[138] V . Bolgouras, A. Angelogianni, I. Politis, and C. Xenakis, “Trusted
and Secure Self-Sovereign Identity Framework,” in Proceedings of the
17th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security ,
ser. ARES ’22. New York, NY , USA: Association for Computing
Machinery, 2022.
[139] N. Fotiou, V . A. Siris, and G. C. Polyzos, “Enabling self-verifiable
mutable content items in IPFS using Decentralized Identifiers,” in 2021
IFIP Networking Conference (IFIP Networking) , 2021, pp. 1–6.
[140] C. Farmer, S. Pick, and A. Hill, “Decentralized identifiers for peer-to-
peer service discovery,” in 2021 IFIP Networking Conference (IFIP
Networking), 2021, pp. 1–6.
[141] T. Zhong, P. Shi, and J. Chang, “Jointcloud cross-chain verification
model of decentralized identifiers,” in 2021 IEEE International Perfor-
mance, Computing, and Communications Conference (IPCCC) , 2021,
pp. 1–8.
[142] N. Fotiou, Y . Thomas, V . A. Siris, G. Xylomenos, and G. C. Poly-
zos, “Securing Named Data Networking routing using Decentralized
Identifiers,” in 2021 IEEE 22nd International Conference on High
Performance Switching and Routing (HPSR) , 2021, pp. 1–6.
[143] A. Sharif, M. Ranzi, R. Carbone, G. Sciarretta, F. A. Marino, and
S. Ranise, “The eIDAS Regulation: A Survey of Technological Trends
for European Electronic Identity Schemes,” Applied Sciences, vol. 12,
no. 24, 2022.
[144] European Union, “Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on Electronic
Identification and Trust Services for Electronic Transactions in
the Internal Market and Repealing Directive 1999/93/EC,” 2014.
[Online]. Available: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/
?uri=uriserv:OJ.L .2014.257.01.0073.01.ENG
[145] European Union, “ Regulation of the European Parliament and of
The Council Amending Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 as Regards
Establishing a Framework for a European Digital Identity,” 2021.
[Online]. Available: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/
?uri=CELEX:52021PC0281
[146] B. Podgorelec, L. Alber, and T. Zefferer, “What is a (Digital) Identity
Wallet? A Systematic Literature Review,” in 2022 IEEE 46th Annual
Computers, Software, and Applications Conference (COMPSAC), 2022,
pp. 809–818.
[147] Gartner, “Gartner predicts at least 500 million smartphone users will
be using a digital identity wallet by 2026,” Sep. 2024, accessed:
2024-10-13. [Online]. Available: https://tinyurl.com/mrz5v362
[148] European Union, “ European Self-Sovereign Identity Framework Lab.”
[Online]. Available: https://essif-lab.eu/
[149] European Union, “ Regulation of the European Parliament and
of The Council Amending Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 as
Regards Establishing a Framework for a European Digital Identity.”
[Online]. Available: https://ec.europa.eu/digital-building-blocks/wikis/
display/EBSI/Home
[150] Decentralized Identity, “ European Digital Identity and SSI.” [Online].
Available: https://decentralized-id.com/government/europe/#regional
[151] J. Li and Y . Jing, “Establishing an International Engagement Model
of Digital Identity Based on Blockchain,” Mobile Information Systems,
vol. 2022, p. 6988211, Aug 2022.
[152] O. Avellaneda, A. Bachmann, A. Barbir, J. Brenan, P. Dingle, K. H.
Duffy, E. Maler, D. Reed, and M. Sporny, “Decentralized Identity:
Where Did It Come From and Where Is It Going?” IEEE Communi-
cations Standards Magazine , vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 10–13, 2019.
[153] J. Li and Y . Jing, “Establishing an International Engagement Model
of Digital Identity Based on Blockchain,” Mobile Information Systems,
vol. 2022, 2022.
[154] U.S. Department of Homeland Security, “ News Release:
DHS S&T Seeks Solutions for Privacy Preserving Digital
Credential Wallets & Verifiers ,” 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://www.dhs.gov/science-and-technology/news/2023/06/22/
st-seeks-solutions-privacy-preserving-digital-credential-wallets-verifiers
[155] Digital Identity and Authentication Council of Canada,
“ Perspectives on the Adoption of Verifiable Creden-
tials ,” 2023. [Online]. Available: https://diacc.ca/2023/05/09/
perspectives-on-the-adoption-of-verifiable-credentials/
[156] J. Sedlmeir, R. Smethurst, A. Rieger, and G. Fridgen, “Digital identities
and verifiable credentials,” Business & Information Systems Engineer-
ing, vol. 63, no. 5, pp. 603–613, 2021.

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 31
[157] “Identidad Digital para la Inclusin.” [Online]. Available: https:
//didi.org.ar/en/
[158] “Farmer Connect.” [Online]. Available: https://www.farmerconnect.
com/
[159] S. Nadhamuni, “The Future of Digital Identity Verification: In the era of
AI Deep Fakes,” 2023. [Online]. Available: https://curator.artracx.com/
[160] S. Kim, A. Zhang, R. Liao, W. Zheng, Z. Hu, and Z. Sun, “Sampling
blockchain-enabled smart city applications among South Korea, the
United States and China,” Journal of Smart Cities and Society , vol. 1,
no. 1, pp. 53–70, 2022.
[161] “Blockchain-managed IDs arrive in China with new
government-backed scheme aiming to reduce data
leaks.” [Online]. Available: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/
blockchain-managed-ids-arrive-china-093000169.html
[162] WeBank, “ WeIdentity.” [Online]. Available: https://weidentity.
readthedocs.io/en/latest/README.html
[163] “ Artracx Curator.” [Online]. Available: https://curator.artracx.com/
[164] “Taiwan DID.” [Online]. Available: https://github.com/tw-did/tw-did
[165] Dock Network, “ Gravity case study .” [Online]. Available:
https://www.dock.io/gravity-case-study
[166] Diwala , “ Diwala .” [Online]. Available: https://www.diwala.io/
[167] “Case Study: Kiva launches Africas first national decentral-
ized ID system with Hyperledger Indy,” 2021. [Online].
Available: https://www.hyperledger.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/
Hyperledger CaseStudy Kiva Printable.pdf
[168] M. Freytsis, I. Barclay, S. K. Radha, A. Czajka, G. H. Siwo, I. Taylor,
and S. Bucher, “Development of a mobile, self-sovereign identity ap-
proach for facility birth registration in Kenya,” Frontiers in Blockchain,
vol. 4, p. 631341, 2021.
[169] Z. Ziyi Li, K. L. Joseph, J. Yu, and D. Gasevic, “Blockchain-
based Solutions for Education Credentialing System: Comparison and
Implications for Future Development,” in 2022 IEEE International
Conference on Blockchain (Blockchain) , 2022, pp. 79–86.
[170] J. Soong, “ 2023 the break out year for Digital Identity — June
Newsletter ,” 2023. [Online]. Available: https://digitalidentity.nz/2023/
06/21/2023-the-break-out-year-for-digital-identity-june-newsletter/
[171] C. International, “ The Credentials Verification Service for the Nursing
Council of New Zealand .” [Online]. Available: https://ncnz.cgfns.org/
[172] F. Hoops, A. Mhle, F. Matthes, and C. Meinel, “A Taxonomy of
Decentralized Identifier Methods for Practitioners,” in 2023 IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Decentralized Applications and Infrastructures
(DAPPS), 2023, pp. 57–65.
[173] Z. E. Ansaroudi, R. Carbone, G. Sciarretta, and S. Ranise, “Control
is Nothing Without Trust a First Look into Digital Identity Wallet
Trends”,” in Data and Applications Security and Privacy XXXVII ,
V . Atluri and A. L. Ferrara, Eds. Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland,
2023, pp. 113–132.
[174] European Commission, “The many use cases of
the EU Digital Identity Wallet,” 2024. [Online].
Available: https://ec.europa.eu/digital-building-blocks/sites/display/
EUDIGITALIDENTITYW ALLET/The+many+use+cases+of+the+
EU+Digital+Identity+Wallet
[175] K.-C. Yang, O. Varol, P.-M. Hui, and F. Menczer, “Scalable
and generalizable social bot detection through data selection,”
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence ,
vol. 34, no. 01, pp. 1096–1103, Apr. 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5460
[176] C. Badertscher, F. Banfi, and J. Diaz, “What Did Come Out
of It? Analysis and Improvements of DIDComm Messaging,” in
Proceedings of the 2024 on ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer
and Communications Security , ser. CCS ’24. New York, NY , USA:
Association for Computing Machinery, 2024, p. 47324746. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3658644.3690300
[177] F. Zhang, E. Cecchetti, K. Croman, A. Juels, and E. Shi, “Town Crier:
An Authenticated Data Feed for Smart Contracts,” in Proceedings of
the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, ser. CCS ’16. New York, NY , USA: Association for
Computing Machinery, 2016, p. 270282.
[178] F. Zhang, D. Maram, H. Malvai, S. Goldfeder, and A. Juels, “DECO:
Liberating Web Data Using Decentralized Oracles for TLS,” in Pro-
ceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
Communications Security , ser. CCS ’20. New York, NY , USA:
Association for Computing Machinery, 2020, p. 19191938.
[179] M.-H. Rhie, K.-H. Kim, D. Hwang, and K.-H. Kim, “Vulnerability
Analysis of DID Documents Updating Process in the Decentralized
Identifier Systems,” in 2021 International Conference on Information
Networking (ICOIN), 2021, pp. 517–520.
[180] C.-S. Park and H.-M. Nam, “A New Approach to Constructing Decen-
tralized Identifier for Secure and Flexible Key Rotation,” IEEE Internet
of Things Journal , vol. 9, no. 13, pp. 10 610–10 624, 2022.
[181] R. R. Mullins, M. Ahearne, S. K. Lam, Z. R. Hall, and J. P. Boichuk,
“Know Your Customer: How Salesperson Perceptions of Customer Re-
lationship Quality Form and Influence Account Profitability,” Journal
of Marketing, vol. 78, no. 6, pp. 38–58, 2014.
[182] A. K. Shaikh, M. Al-Shamli, and A. Nazir, “Designing a relational
model to identify relationships between suspicious customers in anti-
money laundering (aml) using social network analysis (sna),” Journal
of Big Data , vol. 8, no. 1, p. 20, Jan 2021.
[183] S. Mehnaz, S. V . Dibbo, R. De Viti, E. Kabir, B. B. Brandenburg,
S. Mangard, N. Li, E. Bertino, M. Backes, E. De Cristofaro et al. ,
“Are your sensitive attributes private? novel model inversion attribute
inference attacks on classification models,” in 31st USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Security 22) , 2022, pp. 4579–4596.
[184] A. Praveena and S. Smys, “Prevention of inference attacks for private
information in social networking sites,” in 2017 International Confer-
ence on Inventive Systems and Control (ICISC) , 2017, pp. 1–7.
Carlo Mazzocca received his Ph.D. in Computer
Science and Engineering in 2024 from the Univer-
sity of Bologna, Bologna, Italy. Currently, he is an
Assistant Professor in Tenure Track at the Univer-
sity of Salerno, Salerno, Italy. His research primar-
ily focuses on security and privacy aspects, with
a particular emphasis on digital identity, security
mechanisms built on distributed ledger technologies,
authentication and authorization solutions for the
cloud-to-thing continuum.
Abbas Acar received his MSc and Ph.D. degrees
in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engi-
neering at Florida International University in 2019
and 2020, respectively. Before that, he received his
B.S. degree in Electrical and Electronics Engineering
from Middle East Technical University in 2015.
His research interests include continuous authentica-
tion, IoT security/privacy, and homomorphic encryp-
tion. More information can be obtained from https:
//web.eng.fiu.edu/aacar/
Selcuk Uluagac is an Eminent Scholar Chaired
Professor and the director of the Cyber-Physical
Systems Security Lab in the School of Computing
and Information Sciences at Florida International
University (FIU), Miami, Florida, USA. Before FIU,
he was a Senior Research Engineer at Georgia
Institute of Technology and at Symantec. He holds
an M.S. and Ph.D. from Georgia Tech and an M.S.
from Carnegie Mellon University. He is an expert on
security and privacy topics with hundreds of scien-
tific/creative works in practical and applied aspects
of these areas. He received the US NSF CAREER Award (2015), the US
Air Force Office of Sponsored Researchs Summer Faculty Fellowship (2015),
and the University of Padova’s (Italy) Summer Faculty Fellowship (2016).
His research in cybersecurity has been funded by numerous government
agencies and industry. He has served on the program committees of top-tier
security conferences such as ACM CCS, IEEE Security & Privacy (Oakland),
NDSS, and Usenix Security, inter alia. He was the General Chair of the
ACM Conference on Security and Privacy in Wireless and Mobile Networks
(ACM WiSec) in 2019. Currently, he serves on the editorial boards of IEEE
Transactions on Information Forensics and Security as Deputy Editor-in-
Chief, and IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing and Elsevier Computer
Networks Journal as associate editor. More information can be obtained from
http://nweb.eng.fiu.edu/selcuk/.

THIS ARTICLE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION IN IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS: 10.1109/COMST.2025.3543197 32
Rebecca Montanari is Full Professor at the Univer-
sity of Bologna since 2021 carrying out her research
in information security and the design/development
of middleware solutions for services in mobile and
IoT systems. Her research is currently focused on
blockchain technologies to support various supply
chains, including agrifood, manufacturing and fash-
ion and on security systems for Industry 4.0. She has
established several collaborations with state-of-the-
art research centers in the field of semantic web and
policy management, such as Nokia Research Center
Cambridge, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Imperial College London,
Institute for Human and Machine Cognition, and Pensacola-USA. She has
taken part as both coordinator/scientific responsible and participant in several
research projects, internationally and in the European Community based in
all areas of ICT, and also funded by Italian Organizations, such as the several
Research Ministry and Regional funding systems.
Paolo Bellavista received the Ph.D. degree in com-
puter science engineering from the University of
Bologna, Italy, in 2001. He is currently a Full Pro-
fessor with the University of Bologna. His research
interests include middleware for mobile computing,
QoS management in the cloud continuum, infrastruc-
tures for big data processing in industrial environ-
ments, and performance optimization in wide-scale
and latency-sensitive deployment environments. He
serves on the Editorial Boards of IEEE COMMU-
NICATIONS SURVEYS AND TUTORIALS, IEEE
TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK AND SERVICE MANAGEMENT, IEEE
TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, ACM CSUR, ACM TIOT,
and PMC (Elsevier). He is the Scientific Coordinator of the H2020 IoTwins
Project (https: www.iotwins.eu).
Mauro Conti received the Ph.D. degree from the
Sapienza University of Rome, Italy, in 2009. He
is a Full Professor at the University of Padua,
Italy. He is also affiliated with TU Delft and the
University of Washington, Seattle. His research in
the area of Security and Privacy is also funded
by companies, including Cisco, Intel, and Huawei.
He published more than 450 papers in topmost in-
ternational peer-reviewed journals and conferences.
He is the Editor-in-Chief for IEEE Transactions on
Information Forensics and Security and has been an
Associate Editor for several journals, including IEEE Communications Sur-
veys and Tutorials, IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing,
and IEEE Transactions on Network and Service Management. He is a Fellow
of Y AE and a Senior Member of ACM.