I NFORMAT I ON SYSTEMS LABORATORY 
STANFORD ElECTRONICS LABORATORIES 
DEPARTMENT OF ElECTRICAL ENGINEERING 
STANFORD UNIVERSITY' STANFORD, CA 94305 
SECRECY, AUTHENTICATION, AND 
PUBLIC KEY SYSTEMS 
By 
Ralph Charles Merkle 
June 1979 
Technical Report No. 1979-1 
This work was supported by the National Science Foundation 
under grant ENG-IOI73; the U.S. Air Force Office of 
Scientific Research under contract F49620-78-C-0086; and the 
U.S. Army Research Office under contract DAAG29-78-C-0036. 

· 
SEL 79-017 
SECRECY, AUTHENTICATION, AND PUBLIC KEY SYSTEMS 
By 
Ralph Charles ~erkle 
June 1979 
Technical Report No. 1979-1 
This work was supported by the National Science Foundation under 
grant ENG-10173; the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research 
under contract F49620-78-C-0086; and the U.S. Army Research Of­
fice under contract DAAG29-78-C-0036. 

o Copyright 1919 
by 
Ralph Charles Yerkle 
ii 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
It is the author's great pleasure to acknowledgp the aid, 
the help, the assistance, and the support of: my fellow gradu­
ate students, Steve Pohlig, Raynold Kahn, Dov Andleman, and 
Justin Reyneri; Bob Fabry and Jim Reeds on the faculty at U.C. 
Berkeley; the independent and imaginative ~~it Diffie; the ever 
helpful Charlotte Coe; my fellow Berkeley students Peter Blat­
man, Bruce Englar, Frank Olken, and Loren Kohnfelder; the love 
and support of Carol Shaw; and my mother, who knew I could do 
it all along. 
I would like to give my special thanks to Martin Hellman, 
whose support made it possible and who encouraged me when it 
counted most: when little was known and much was doubted. 
Thanks are also due to the National Science Foundation for 
it's support. of the work described in chapter's III, IV, VI, 
VII, VIII, IX and X under grant ENG-10173; and t.o the U.S. Air 
Force Office of Scientific Research and the U.S. Army Research 
Office for their support of the work described in chapters II, 
V and VII under contracts F49620-78-C-0086 and DAAG29-78-C-
0036. 
6/4/79 iv 

Table of Contents 
I. Introduction ................................ 1 
II. One Way Hash Functions ••••••••••••••••••••• 11 
III. A Public Key Cryptosystem Using Puzzles •••• 16 
IV. Public Key Distribution Using Puzzles •••••• 21 
V. A Certified Digital Signature •••••••••••••• 32 
VI. The Trapdoor Knapsack •••••••••••••••••••••• 62 
VII. How Secure is the Trapdoor Knapsack? •••••• 82 
VIII. An NP-complete Conventional Cipher •••••••• 105 
IX. Protocols for Public Key Cryptosystems •••• 112 
X. On the Security of Multiple Encryption •••• 142 
XI. Conclusions ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 150 
XII. Bibliography ••••••••••••••••••• ~ •••••••••• 151 
APPENDICES 
XIII. FC Code to Generate Trapdoor Knapsacks •••• 157 
XIV. Examples of Trapdoor Knapsacks •••••••••••• 165 
v 

I. INTRODUCTION 
1. Introduction 
Cryptography is a fascinating subject, even more so today 
than in the past. The new and once unthinkable ideas of public 
key distribution and digital signatures have opened up new 
fields of research, and new possibilities for the marketplace. 
To be one of the first to venture into this virgin territory 
has been a great privilege. 
This thesis presents the findings of work done between 
fall of 1974 and spring of 1979. 
Chapters III and IV describing the "puzzle" methods are 
now primarily of pedagogical and historical interest: they 
were the first. break in what at that time appeared to be a 
smooth and solid wall. 
Chapter VI, on the trapdoor knapsack, describes the second 
real breakthrough, (the first was the key distribution method 
based on exponentiation developed by Hellman) and represents 
work done in the summer of 1976. 
Chapter V, on a certified digital signature, was conceived 
in the summer of 1977. To some extent it represents frustra­
tion over the difficulties of extracting signatures in a clean 
and reliable way from the trapdoor knapsack. 
Chapter VII is a follow up on chapter VI. It attempts to 
provide reasons for believing that the trapdoor knapsack is ac­
tually secure. The author is, of course, quite convinced it is 
6/4/79 Chapter I Page 1 

INTRODUCTION 
secure; but inventors have traditionally been blind to the 
weaknesses and obvious faults of their cryptographic inven­
tions. It has therefore been very encouraging to hear from 
others that they have failed miserably in attempts to analyze 
it. 
Chapter IX on protocols provides insight into the problems 
and techniques of actually using pubJic key systems. 
Chapter VIII describes an essentially NP-complete conven­
tional cryptosystem, a theoretical result which might provide a 
useful avenue for further research aimed at getting proofs of 
security. 
Chapter X describes a cryptanalytic method for breaking an 
apparent improvement which has been suggested to the DES. Its 
description of potential weakness in a particular scheme for 
multiple encipherment carries with it a simple moral: simple 
extensions or modifications to a cryptographic algorithm can 
have unexpected weaknesses. 
6/4/79 Chapter I Page 2 

INTRODUCTION 
2. Conventional Cryptography 
Conventional cryptographic systems provide secrecy and au-
thentication to information which may be overheard or mod ified 
by unauthorized third parties. This is done by encrypting (or 
enciphering) the plaintext P with a k~y K to produce the 
ciphertext C: SK(P) = C, where SK denotes the encjphering func-
tion under key K. Only authorized users know K, and so only 
-1 they can decipher C by computing P = SK (C). Although unau-
thorized users know C and the set of functions {SK}' this does 
not allow them either to determine P or to mod ify C to produce 
a C' which deciphers to a meaningful message. 
The security of such systems resides entirely in the key 
K. All other components of the system are assumed to be public 
knowledge. To maintain security, the legitimate users of the 
system must learn K, while preventing others from learning it. 
To date, this has been done by send ing K to the legitimate 
users of the system over special physicC'lly secure communica-
tion channels, e.g., registered mail or couriers. The flow of 
information in a conventional cryptographic system is shown in 
figure 1. 
6/4/79 Chapter I Page 3 

SENDER 
P 
EAVESDROPPER 
ENCRYPTIONI ~DECRYPTION ~RECEIVER 
C 
----- ---- ----
-- ... ---------
K 
FIG 1 
THE FLOW OF INFORMATION IN 
A CRYPTOGRAPHIC PRIVACY SYSTEM. 
P 
PAGE 3A 

INTRODUCTION 
3. Public Key Systems 
The reader interested in public key cryptography is re­
ferred to [4] for an excellent tutorial overview. So that this 
thesis is self contained, two sections from that paper are 
reproduced below with only minor changes to introduce the con­
cepts of public key systems and digital signatures. 
The difficulty of distributing keys has been one of the 
major limitations on the use of conventional cryptographic 
technology. In order for the sender and receiver to make use 
of a physically secure channel such as registered mail for key 
distribution, they must be prepared to wait while the keys are 
sent, or have made prior preparation for cryptographic communi­
cation. 
In the military, the chain of command helps to limit the 
number of user-pair connections, but even there, the key dis­
tribution problem has been a major impediment to the use of 
cryptography. This problem will be accentuated in large com­
mercial communication networks where the number of possible 
connections is (n2_n)/2 where n is the number of users. A sys­
tem with one million users has almost 500 bill ion possible con­
nections, and the cost of distributing this many keys is prohi­
bitive. 
At this point we introduce a new kind of cryptographic 
system which simplifies the problem of key distribution. It is 
6/4/79 Chapter I Page ~ 

INTRODUCTION 
possible to dispense with the secure key distribution channel 
of figure 1, and communicate over the insecure channel without 
any prearrangement. As indicated in figure 2, two way communi­
cation is allowed between the transmitter and receiver, but the 
eavesdropper is passive and only listens. Systems of this type 
are called public key systems, in contrast to conventional sys­
tems. 
The reason that keys must be so carefully protected in 
conventional cryptographic systems is that the enciphering and 
deciphering functions are inseparabl e. Anyone who has access 
to the key in order to encipher messages can also decipher mes-
sages. If the enciphering and deciphering capabilities are 
separated, privacy can be achieved without keeping the enci­
phering key secret, because it can no longer be used for deci­
phering. 
The new systems must be designed so that. it is easy to 
generate a random pair of inverse keys E, for enciphering, and 
D, for deciphering, and easy to operate with E and D, but com­
putationally infeasible to compute D from E. 
A public key cryptosystem is a pair of families {EK} and 
{OK} for K in {K}, of algorithms representing an invE'rtibJ e 
transformation and its inverse defined such that: 
1) For every K in {K}, DK is the inverse of EK• That is, 
DK(EK(~)) = M, for any K and any ~. 
2) For every K in {K} and M in {M}, the values EK(M) and 
6/4/19 Chapter I Page 5 

MESSAGE ... SOURCE 
" P 
., 
EAVESDROPPER 
~ .. 
TRANSMITTER ~ 
I~ 
411 ~ 
KEY 
SOURCE #1 
FIG 2 
THE FLOW OF INFORMATION IN A 
PUBLIC KEY SYSTEM. 
.. RECEIVER III.. 
• JIll'" 
P .. ~ 
KEY 
SOURCE #2 
PAGE SA 

INTRODUCTION 
DK(M) are easy to compute. 
3) For nearly all K in {K}, any easily computed algorithm 
equivalent to DK is computationally infeasible to 
derive from EK• 
4) For every K in {K}, it is feasible to generate the in­
verse pair EK and DK from K. 
The third property allows a user's enciphering key EK to 
be made public without compromising the security of his secret 
deciphering key DK• The cryptographic system is ther~fore 
split into two parts, a family of enciphering transformations, 
and a family of deciphering transformations in such a way that 
given a member of one family it is infeasible to find the 
corresponding member of the other. 
The fourth property guarantees that there is a feasible 
way of computing corresponding pairs of inverse transformations 
when no constraint is placed on what either the enciphering or 
deciphering transformation is to be. In practice, the crypto­
equipment must contain a true random numb~r generator (e.g., a 
noisy diode) for generating K, together with an algorithm for 
generating the EK-Dk pair from K. 
A system of this kind greatly simplifies -the problem of 
key distribution. Each user generates a pair of inverse 
transformations, E and D. He keeps the deciphering transforma­
tion D secret, and makes the enciphering transformation E pub­
lic by, for example, placing it in a public directory similar 
6/4/79 Ch8pter I Page 6 

INTRODUCTION 
to a phone book. Anyone can now encrypt messages and send them 
to the user, but no one else can decipher messages intended for 
him. 
If in addition to conditions 1) - 4) above, the set of 
transformations satisfy 
1') For every K in {K}, EK is the inverse of DK• That is 
for any K and any M, EKDK(~) = M. 
It is possible, and often desirable, to encipher with D 
and decipher with E. For this reason, EK is sometimes called 
the public key, and DK the secret (or signing) key. 
6/4/79 Chapter I Page 7 

INTRODUCTION 
4. Digital Signatures 
A second difficulty which has limited the appl ication of 
conventional cryptography is its inability to deal with the 
problem of dispute. Conventional authentication systems can 
prevent third party forgeries, but cannot settle disputes 
between the sender and receiver as to what message, if any, was 
sent. 
In current commercial practice, the validity of contracts 
and agreements is guaranteed by handwri tt.en signatures. A 
signed contract serves as proof of an agreement which the hold­
er can present in court if necessary, but the use of signatures 
requires the transmission and storage of written documents: a 
major barrier to more widespread use of electronic communica­
tions in business. 
The essence of a signature is that although only one per­
son can produce it, anybody can recognize it. If there is to 
be a purely digital replacement for this paper instrument, each 
user must be able to produce messages whose authenticity can be 
checked by anyone, but which could not have been produced by 
anyone else, especially the intended recipient. In a conven­
tional system the receiver authenticates any message he re­
ceives from the sender by deciphering it in a key which the two 
hold in common. Because this key is held in common, however, 
the receiver has the ab il ity to produce any cryptogram that 
6/4/79 Chapter I Page 8 

INTRODUCTION 
could have been produced by the sender and so cannot prove that 
the sender actually sent a disputed message. 
Publ ic key cryptosystems provide a direct solution to the 
signature problem, if they satisfy condition 1'). Systems 
which almost satisfy 1') are also usable (see chapter VI). 
If user A wishes to send a signed message M to user B, he 
operates on it with his private key DA to produce the signed 
message S = DA(M). DA was used as A's deciphering key when 
privacy was desired, but is now used as his "enciphering" or 
"signing" key. When user B receives S he can recover ~ by 
operating on S with A's public key EA' 
B saves S as proof that user A sent him the particular 
message M. If A later disclaims having sent this message, E 
can take S to a judge who obtains EA and checks that EA(S) = M 
is a meaningful message with A's name at the end, the proper 
date and time, etc. Only user A could have generated S because 
only he knows DA, so A will be held responsible for having sent 
M. 
This technique provides unforgeable, message dependent, 
digital signatures, but allows any eavesdropper to determine M 
because only the public information EJI is needed to recover M 
from S. To obtain privacy of communication as well, A can en­
crypt S with B's public key and send EB(S) instead of S. Only 
B knows DB' so only he can recover S and thence M. B still 
saves S as proof that user A sent him M. 
Other methods of generating digital signatures which do 
6/4/79 Chapter I Page 9 

INTRODUCTION 
not depend on publ ic key crypt.osysterns have been suggested [6]. 
[19] and Chapter V. 
[Note : This concludes the two sections taken largely fr·om 
[4].] 
6/4/79 Chapter I Page 10 

II. ONE WAY HASH FUNCTIONS 
There are many instances in which a large data field (e.g. 
10, 000 bits) needs to be authenticated, but only a small data 
field (e.g. 100 bits) can be stored or authenticated. (See, 
for example, chapter V). It is often required that it be in­
feasible to compute other large data fields with the same image 
under the hash function, giving rise to the need for a ~ way 
hash function. 
Intuitively, a one way hash function F is one which is 
easy to compute but difficult to invert and can m?p arbitrarily 
large data fields onto much smaller ones. If y = F( x), then 
given x and F, it is easy to compute y, but given y and F it is 
effectively impossible to compute x. More precisely: 
1) F can be applied to any argument of any size. F ap­
plied to more than one argument (e.g. F( x1 ,x2 ) ) is 
equi val ent to F appl ied to the concatenation of the 
arguments, i.e. F«x 1 ,x 2». 
2) F always produces a fixed size output, which, for the 
sake of concreteness, we take to be 100 bits. 
3) Given F and x it is easy to compute F(x). 
4) Given F and F(x), it is computationally infeasible to· 
determine x. 
5) Given F and x, it is computationally infeasible to 
find an x' i x such that F(x) = F(x'). 
The major use of one way functions is for authentication. 
6/4179 Chapter II Page 11 

ONE WAY HASH FUNCTIONS 
If a value y can be authenticat.ed, we can authenticate x by 
computing 
F( x) = y 
and authenticating y. 
No other input x' can be found (al though they probably ex 1st) 
which will generate y. A 100 bit Y can authenticate an arbi­
trarily large x. This property is crucial for the convenient 
authentication of large amounts of information. Although a 100 
bit y is plausible, selection of the size in a real system in­
volves tradeoffs between the reduced cost and improved effi-
ciency of a smaller size, and the improved security of a larger 
size. 
Because y is used to aut.henticate the corresponding x, it 
would be intolerable if someone could comput.e an x' such that y 
= F(x) = F(x'). The fraudulent x' could be substituted for the 
legitimate x and would be authenticated by the same informa­
tion. If y is 100 bits long, an interloper must try about 2100 
different values of x' before getting a value such that F(x') = 
y. In an actual system, F will be applied to many different 
values of x, producing many different values of y. As a conse- . 
quence, trying fewer than 2100 different values of x will prob­
ably yield an x' such that F(x') = y for some already authenti-
cated y. To take a concrete example, assume F has been applied 
to 240 different values of x, and produced 240 corresponding 
values of y, each of which has been authenticated. If the y's 
are 100 bits, then a random search over 260 values of x would 
6/4/79 Chapter II Page 12 

ONE WAY HASH FUNCTIONS 
probably yield an x' such that y = F(x) = F(x') for some value 
of y. While this search is still difficult, it is easier than 
searching over 2100 different values of x. This demonstrates 
that y might have to be longer than expected in a heavily used 
system. 100 Forcing an opponent to search over all 2 different 
values of x would be more desirable. This can usually be done 
by using many different functions, F" F2, The effect of 
using many different one way functions is to prevent analysis 
of F by exhaustive techniques, because each value of x is au-
thenticated witl'1 a distinct Fi • This will significantly in-
crease security, yet requires only minor changes in implementa-
tion. 
Functions such as F can be defined in terms of convention-
al cryptographic functions [6 J. Assume we have a conventional 
encryption function C(key,plaintext) which has a 200 bit key 
size and encrypts 100 bit blocks of plaintext into 100 bit 
blocks of ciphertext. (It is a common misconception that the 
key can be no larger than the plaintext blocksize, but as an 
example the DES can be regarded as having a 768 bit key and a 
64 bit block size). 
We first define F 0' which is simpler than F and wMch sa­
tisfies properties 2, 3, 4, and 5; but whose input x is res-
tricted to be 200 bits. We define 
FO(X) = y = C(x,Q) 
FO accepts a 200 bit input x and produces a 100 bit output y, 
as desired. Furthermore, given y, the problem of finding an x' 
6/4/79 Chapter II Page 13 

ONE WAY HASH FUNCTIONS 
such that F(x') = y is equivalent to finding a key x' such that 
y = C( x' ,Q). If C is a good encryption function, this is com-
putationally infeasible. 
If the input x to F is fewer than 200 bits, then we CAn 
"pad" x by adding 0' s until it is exactly 200 bits, and then 
define F = F o. If the input is more than 200 bits, we will 
break it into '00 bit pieces. Assume that 
and that each x. is '00 bits long. Then F is defined in terms 1 
of repeated applications of FO. Fe is first applied to x, and 
x2 to obtain y, Then = 
FO(Y2'X 4 ), Y4 = Fo(Y3'x 5 ), ••• Yi = Fo(Yi_"X i +')' ••• Yk-' = 
FO(Yk_2'x k ). F(x) is defined to be Yk-,; the final Y in the 
series. If x is not an exact multiple of '00 bits, then it is 
padded with O's, as above. 
It is obvious that F can accept arbitrarily large values 
for x. Although complexity theory has not progressed to the 
point where it is possibJ e to prove that it will be computa-
tionally infeasible to find any vector ~' not equal to x such 
that F(~) = F(~'), a p]ausibility argument cen be made induc-
tively thc:ot this is the case. As a basis, when k = 2, the pro-
= 
perty holds because F(~) = F 0 (X, ,x 2 ), and the property holds 
for FO by assumption. We establish the case for k = 3 by con­
tradiction. We assume that FCx"x 2 ,x 3 ) = F(x,',x 2 ',x 3 ') and 
that Xi i Xi' for some i in {',2,3l. We first note that 
F(X"x 2 ,x 3 ) = FO(Y1'X 3 ) by definition. If either y, -t Y1' or 
6/4/79 Chapter II Page 14 

ONE WAY HASH FUNCTIONS 
X3 i X3" and FO(y"x 3 ) = FO(y,',x 3 '), then we have violated 
assumption 5 made about FO. If y, = y,' and x3 = x3" then ei­
ther x, i x,' or x2 i x2 '. By definition FO(x, ,x 2 ) = y" and 
FO(x, ',x 2 ') = y,', so FO(x"x 2 ) = FO(x, ',x 2 ') and again we con­
tradict assumption 5 made about FO. This line of logic can be 
extended to the cases k = 3. 4, 5, 
This argument cannot be made fully rigorous until the pro­
perties of F 0 are made rigorous. This must await further ad­
vances in complexity theory. 
6/4/79 Chapter II Page'5 

III. A PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEM BASED ON PUZZLES 
This chapter describes the first public key distribution 
system and the first publ ic key cryptosystem, which were both 
based on the concept of a "puzzle". 
Puzzles can be used in a variety of ways to make public 
key distribution systems where the effort involved to break the 
system grows as the square of the effort to use the system. 
The method described in chapter IV is not the simplest, but was 
selected because it requi.red the least memory and was deter­
ministic. (As an interesting aside, Ron Rivest sent the author 
a letter mentioning this fact, and described a simpler system 
which was, in fact, the system the author originally devised.) 
As originally conceived, the method was more closely 
linked to the concept of a one way function and was probabilis­
tic in nature. Basically, it centered on the observation that 
if two people randomly select n numbers from a space of n2 
numbers, there is a significant probability that both will have 
selected at least one number in common. This is closely relat­
ed to the "birthdc-y problem" [41 J. Given n people in a room, 
what is the probability that at least two of them were born on 
the same day? The probability becomes surprisingly high when 
there are more than square root(365) = 20 people in the room. 
This surpri sing statistical result can be used for public 
key distribution rather easily. If A and B wish to agree on a 
2 common key, then each selects n numbers from a space of n 
numbers. The probability that they selected a common number is 
significant and if A and B can determine this common number it 
6/4/79 Chapter III Page 16 

A PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEM BASED ON PUZZLES 
can be used as a cryptographic key in further communications. 
Note that the number of possible keys is n2 , so anyone who 
2 tries to break this method must search through all n , rather 
than the O(n) keys that A and B know. 
A and B determine the common number as follows: A applies 
a one way function F to hide each of his n randomly chosen 
numbers, and sends them to B. B applies F to hide his randomly 
chosen numbers and sends the result to A. A and B can now sort 
both lists of hidden numbers, and look for a match. If A and B 
chanced upon the same number, then the hidden version of this 
number computed by A and P will be the same. All that E knows 
is the hidden versions of the numbers. E can easily look 
through A's and B's hidden numbers and find the match, but then 
E must search through all n2 possible values to find the origi-
nal value, which is used as the key. A and B, on the other 
hand, already KNOW the original values, because they generated 
the hidden values by applying F to numbers they knew. 
The next phase in the evolutionary development of the 
method was to create a deterministic version of the original 
method. This is done fa irly easily. Instead of selecting n· 
numbers from n2 possibilities completely at random, select one 
number randomly in the range from 1 to n, the second number 
randomly in the range from n+1 to 2 • n, the third number ran-
domly in the range from 2 • n + 1 to 3 • n, the ith number from 
the range (i-1) • n + 1 to i • n, and the nth number from the 
range (n-1) • n + 1 to n • n. This guarantees that there must 
6/4/79 Chapter III Page 17 

A PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEM BASED ON PUZZLES 
be one number in each of the n possible ranges. By picking a 
random range, and then searching sequentially through all pos­
sible numbers in that range, a "collision" must occur. In oth­
er words, f>. picks a single number randomly from each range, 
hides them, randomly permutes their order and transmits the 
permuted hidden values to P. B picks a random range, hides all 
n numbers in that range, but does not send the result to A. 
Instead, E looks for a match between the hidden numbers A sent, 
and the hidden numbers E just generated. When E finds the 
match, E sends the hidden value back to A, who compares t.his 
single hidden number against the n hidden numbers A generated. 
The method now deterministically achieves an n2:n ratio of ef­
fort (work factor). However, it still requires a great deal of 
memory. 
The method described in chapter IV was the next p.volution­
ary step beyond this. 
The "puzzles" method also evolved into the first public 
key cryptosystem. Easically, the enciphering and deciphering 
keys are just explicit tabular representations of randomly 
chosen enciphering and deciphering functions. The only modifi­
cation is to the enciphering key. It cannot be represented in 
a simple tabular format, because this would allow it to be in­
verted too easily, i.e., the public enciphering key must be 
hard to invert, and a tabular format is not hard to invert, so 
the tabular format must be extended somewhat. This is done by 
6/4/79 Chapter III Page 18 

A PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEM BASED ON PUZZLES 
enpuzzling the elements of the range. 
First, we define the enpuzzlement of an argument by the 
function: 
P(x,n) 
where x is the value to be enpuzzled, and n represents the 
difficul ty of breaking the resulting puzzle. P<345, 45) means 
that the number "345" can be recovered by putting in 45 units 
of effort (on average). 
A small enciphering key; which maps plaintext into 
ciphertext 7, plaintext 2 into ciphertext 3, and plaintext 
8 into ciphertext 5; is shown in figure 1, with n = B. 
The Enciphering Key 
P(7,B) 
2 P(3,8) 
3 P(6,S) 
4 P(B,8) 
5 P(1,8) 
6 P(4,8) 
7 P(2,8) 
8 P(5,8) 
Figure 1 
Note that it requires O(n) units of effort to compute 
6/4/79 Chapter III Page 19 

A PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEM BASED ON PUZZLES 
E(plaintext) from this tabular representation, but that comput-
2 ing D(ciphertext) requires O(n ). 
The corresponding secret deciphering key is shown in fig-
ure 2. 
The Deciphering Key 
1 5 
2 7 
3 2 
4 6 
5 8 
6 3 
7 1 
8 4 
Figure 2 
The secret deciphering key is not enpuzzled, and so it is 
easy to compute D(ciphertext) from it, (or to compute 
E(plaintext), but this is largely beside the point). Making 
the enCiphering and deciphering keys can be done in O(n) time, 
enciphering requires O(n) time, deciphering can be done in unit 
time, but breaking the system requires O(n2 ) time. 
6/4/79 Chapter III Page 20 

IV. PUBLIC KEY DISTRIBUTION USING PUZZLE~ 
1. INTRODUCTION 
This chapter describes the first public key system ever 
developed. Until this system. it had been assumed that a 
necessary precondition for cryptographically secure communica­
tions was the transmission of a key. by secret means. prior to 
an attempt to communicate securely. The system described below. 
however, allows two communicants to select a key publicly. but 
in such a fashion that no one else can easily determine what it 
is. 
The body of the chapter will begin with a description of a 
conventional cryptographic system. in whicp secure transmission 
of the key is required. It will then develop the new concept 
of a public key system. The implications of public key systems 
will then be explored in more detail. with the aid of some ex­
amples. 
6/4/79 Chapter IV Page 21 

PUBLIC KEY DISTRIBUTION USING PUZZLES 
2. REVIEr! 
We introduce three protagonists into our paradigm: A and 
B, the two communicants, and E, the enemy, who wishes to find 
out what A and E are communicating. A and R have available a 
conventional cryptographic system for encrypting and decryptjng 
messages that they send to each other. A, E, and E all know 
the general method of encryption. A and B also have available 
a normal communications channel, over which they send the bulk 
of their messages. To allow A Clnd P to communicate securely, 
they must load a key, which is unknown to E, into their crypto­
graphic devices. The general method uses this key as a parame­
ter, and will perform a particular transformation on messages 
for a particular key. Because E does not know this key, he 
cannot perform the particular transformation, and thus cannot 
encrypt or decrypt messages. 
A and B must both know what the key is, and must insure 
that E does not know what it is. In the trad itional parad igm 
for cryptography, this situation comes about by the transmis­
sion of the key from A to E over some special and secure com­
munications channel which we shall refer to as the key channel. 
E cannot intercept messages sent on this channel, and the key 
is therefore safe. 
The key channel is not used for normal communications be­
cause of its expense and inconvenience. 
In view of the central position that the key channel will 
6/4/79 Chapter IV Page 22 

PUPLIC KEY DISTRIBUTION USING PUZZLES 
occupy in this chapter, it would be wise to state, somewhat 
more clearly, the conditions which it must satisfy. There are 
two such conditions. 
1) E cannot modify or alter messages on the key channel, 
nor can he inject false or spurious messages. 
2) E is unable to determine the content of any message 
sent over the key channel, i.e., E cannot intercept 
the messages. 
Systems of this type are referred to as conventional cryp­
tographic systems, and their study dates back to antiquity (See 
Shannon [35J for a good overview). We now make a modification 
which had not previously been considered. 
6/4/79 Chapter IV Page 23 

PUBLIC KEY DISTRIBUTION USING PUZZLES 
3. THE NEW APPROACH 
We modify the t.raditional paradigm by dropping the second 
restriction on the key channel, but not the first. We no 
longer demand that E be unable to learn what is sent on the key 
channel, rather, we assume that E has perf~ct knowledge of 
everything that is sent over this channel [footnote page 31]. 
Al though in some in stances the key and normal channel s may be 
one and the same, we shall treat them as logically distinct. 
It is the thesis of this chapter that secure communica-
tions between A and B can take place under t.he conditions we 
have just described. 
The reader should clearly understand that no key lurks in 
the background. There is no method by which A and B can com-
municate other than the normal channel and the key channel. 
They have made no secret preparations prior to the time that 
they wish to communicate securely. 
We must carefully consider what constitutes a solution. 
If A and B eventually agree upon a key, and if the work re-
quired of E to determine the key is much higher than the work· 
put in by either A or E to select the key, then we have a solu-
tion. Note that E can determine the key used in most conven-
tional cryptographic systems (with the exception of the one 
time pad) simply by trying all possible keys and seeing which 
one produces a legible message. However, the amount of work 
required grows exponentially compared to the amount of work put 
6/4/79 Chapter IV Page 24 

PUBLIC KEY DISTRIPUTION USING PUZZLES 
in by A or P. The public key solution described is not ex­
ponential, but the amount of work required of E to determine 
the key increases as the square of the amount of work put in by 
A and P to select the key. Methods which appear to force E to 
put in an amount of work which grows exponentially with the 
amount of work A and B put in have been discovered since the 
conception of this method. While this method is therefore not 
as practical, its simplicity makes it the most nearly provably 
secure system and the best for pedagogical purposes. It relies 
on little more than the existence of one way functions. 
6/4/79 Chapter IV Page 25 

PUBLIC KEY DISTRIBUTION USING PUZZLES 
4. THE ~THOD 
The method is based on the concept of a puzzle, that is, a 
cryptogram which is meant to be broken. To solve the puzzle, 
we must cryptanalyze the cryptogram. Having done this, we 
learn the information that was "enpuzzled", the plaintext of 
the cryptogram. Just as we can encrypt plaintext to produce a' 
cryptogram, so we can enpuzzle information to produce a puzzle. 
A puzzle, though, is meant to be solved, while ideally, a cryp-
togram cannot be cryptanalyzed. To solve a puzzle, all you 
need do is put in the required amount of effort. 
To sharpen our definition. we will consider the following 
method of creating puzzles. First, select a strong encryption 
function. We are not interested in the details of how this en­
cryption function works: our only interest is that it does 
work. The reader can self'ct any encryption function that he 
feels is particularly strong and effective. A concrete example 
might be the DES encryption function [24J, which with a longer 
key is currently felt to be quite strong. 
After selecting an encryption function, we create our puz­
zle by encrypting some piece of information with that function 
wi th a key chosen at random from a specified subset of the 
keyspace. We artificially restrict the size of the key space 
used with the encryption function to make the puzzle solvable. 
If the key is normally 128 bits, we might use only 30 bits and 
set the remaining 98 bits to O. \-,Thile searching through 2128 
6/4179 Chapter IV Page 26 

PUBLIC KEY DISTRIBUTION USING PUZZLES 
possible keys is completely infeasible, searching through 230 
is tedious, but quite possible. We can control the difficulty 
of solving a puzzle, simply by changing the restriction on the 
size of the key space used. To make the puzzle harder to 
solve, we might select a 40 bit key, while to make it easier, 
we might select a 20 bit key. vre assume the strength of the 
underlying encryption function is adequate to insure that our 
puzzle can only be solved by exhaustive search through the res­
tricted key space, and we can then adjust the size of the key 
space to precisely control the difftcul ty of solving the puz­
zle. 
There is still one more point that must be brought out. 
In cryptanalyzing an encrypted message, the cryptanalyst relies 
on redundancy in the message to indicate when the proper key is 
tried. If the information we enpuzzle is random, there will be 
no redundancy, and thus no way of solving the puzzle. We must 
deliberately introduce redundancy into our puzzle, so that it 
can be solved. This can be done easily enough by encrypting, 
along with the information, a constant that is publicly stated. 
When we try to decrypt the puzzl e with a particular key, the 
recovery of this constant can be taken as evidence that we have 
selected the right key, and thus have solved the puzzle. The 
absence of the constant part in the decrypted puzzle guarantees 
that we have used the wrong key, and should tr y ag ai n. Wh il e 
an incorrect key can produce a false alarm, if the constant 
field is larger than the number of bits in the restricted key 
6/4/79 Chapter IV Page 27 

PUBLIC KEY DISTRIBUTION USING PUZZLES 
space, then unicity distance arguments indicate that false 
alarms should be rare. 
With the concept of puzzle in hand, we can proceed. We let 
A and B agree upon the value of N which they wish to use. A 
then generates N puzzles, and transmits these N puzzles to P 
over the key channel. A chooses the size of the key space so 
that these puzzles require O(N) effort to break. (That is, A 
selects a key space of size K·N, for a constant, K.) Each puz­
zle contains, within itself, two pieces of information. Nei­
ther piece of information is readily available to anyone exa­
mining the puzzle. By devoting O(N) effort to solving the puz­
zle, it is possible to determine both these pieces of informa­
tion. One piece of information is a puzzle id, which uniquely 
identifies each of the N puzzles. The ids were assigned by A 
at random. The other piece of information in the puzzle is a 
random bit string which is the proper size for use as a true 
(unrestricted) key, Le., one of the possible keys to be used 
in subsequent encrypted communications. To distinguish the true 
keys, one for each puzzle, from the keys randomly selected from 
the restricted key space to create the puzzles, we will call 
the former "true keys", and the latter, "restricted keys". 
Thus, N true keys are enpuzzled, and in the process of enpuz­
zling each true key, a restricted key is used. 
When B is presented with this menu of N puzzles, he 
selects a puzzle at random and spends O(n) effort to solve the 
puzzle. B then transmits the id back to A over the key chan-
6/4/79 Chapter IV Page 28 

PUBLIC KEY DISTRIBUTION USING PUZZLES 
nel, and uses the true key found in the puzzle as the key for 
further encrypted communications over the normal channel. 
A, P, and E all know the N puzzles. They also know the 
id, because B transmitted the id over t.he key channel. E knows 
the corresponding true key, because E selected the puzzle to be 
solved. A knows the correspond ing true key, because A knows 
which true key is associated with the id that P sent.. E knows 
only the id, but does not know the true key. E does not know 
which puzzle contains the true key that E selected, and which A 
and P are using, even though he knows the id. To determine 
which puzzle is the correct one, he must break puzzles at ran­
dom until he encounters the one with the correct ide 
If E is to determine the key which A and E are using, 
then, on an average, E will have to solve 1/2 N puzzles before 
reaching the puzzle that E solved. Each puzzle has been con­
structed so that it requires O(N) effort to break, so E must 
spend, on an average, O(N2 ) effort to determine the key. B, on 
the other hand, need only spend O(N) effort t.o break the one 
puzzle he selected, while A need only spend O(N) effort to 
manufactur e the N puzzl es. Thus, both A and E will only put 
in O{N) effort. A detailed description appears in [21]. 
In summary: the method allows the use of channels satisfy­
ing assumption 1, and not satisfying assumption 2, for the 
transmission of key information. We need only guarantee that 
messages are unmod ified, and we no longer require that they be 
unread. If the two communicants, A and E, put in O(N) effort, 
6/4/79 Chapter IV Page 29 

PUBLIC KEY DISTRIBUTION USTNG PUZZLES 
then the enemy, E, must. put in O(N2) effort to determine the 
key. 
Generating the n puzzles is orders of magnitude less cost-
ly than transmitting them. Creating a method in which the ra-
tio of efforts was still 2. n .n, but which did not require 
transmitting O(n) bits would be a substantial and practical im-
provement. There seems no reason in principal why such an im-
provement should not be possible. 
6/4/79 Chapter IV Page 30 

PUBLIC KEY DISTRIBUTION USING PUZZLES 
5. FOOTNOTE 
Wyner [39J introduced a different (information theoretic) 
approach to secure communication over an insecure channel 
wi thout prearrangement. Wynf>r assumes that the wiretapper E 
has inferior reception of the messages being transmitted. By 
taking advantage of this inferior reception, Wyner shows how 
the wiretapper can be completely confused. Our approach is dif­
ferent and assumes that both the legitimate receiver and the 
wiretapper perfectly receive whatever the transmitter sends. 
6/4/79 Chapter IV Page 31 

V. A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
1. Introduction 
Digital signatures prorr.ise to revolutionize business by 
phone or other telecommunication devices [6J but use of the 
currently known pubHc key cryptosystems [18], [20J, [21], [31] 
is risky until they have been carefully certified. A signature 
system whose security rested solely on the security of a con­
ventional cryptographic function would be "prE"-certified" to 
the extent that the underlying encryption function had been 
certified. The delays and cost of a new certification effort 
would be avoided. Lamport and Diffie [6J suggested such a sys­
tern, but it has severe performance drawbacks. Lipton and Ma­
tyas [17J nonetheless suggested its use as the only near term 
solution to a pressing problem. 
This chapter describes a digital signature system which is 
"pre-certified" in the above sense, generates signatures of 
about 15 kilobits (2 kilobytes), requires a few thousand appli­
cations of the underlying encryption function per signature, 
and only a few kilobytes of memory. If the underlying encryp­
tion function takes 10 microseconds to encrypt a block, gen­
erating a signature takes approximately 20 milliseconds. 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 32 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
The following major points are covered: 
1.) A description of the Lamport-Diffie one time signa­
ture. 
2.) An improved version of the Lamport-Diffie one time 
signature. 
3. ) A method of converting anyone time signature into a 
convenient signature system. 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 33 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
2. The Lamport-Diffie One Time Signature 
The Lamport-Diffie one time signature [6J is based on the 
concept of a one way function [7] ,[38], If y = F(x) is the 
result of applying the one way function F to input x, then the 
key observation is: 
The person who computed y = F(x) is the only person who 
knows x. If y is publicly revealed, only the origi.­
nator of y knows x, and can choose to reveal or con­
ceal x at his whim. 
This is best clarified by an example. ~uppose a person A 
has some stock, which he can sell at any time. A might wish to 
sell the stock on short notice, which means that A would like 
to tell his broker over the phone. The broker, E, does not 
wish to sell with only a phone call as authorization. To solve 
this problem, A computes y = F(x) and gives y to E. They agree 
that when A wants to sell his stock he will reveal x to B. 
(This agreement could be formal ized as a wrHten contract [17] 
which includes the value of y and a description of F but not 
the value of x.) E will then be able to prove that A wanted to 
sell his stock, because B will be able to exhibit x, and demon­
strate that F(x) = y. 
If A later denies having ordered E to sell the stock, B 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 34 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
can show the contract and x to a judge as proof that A, con-
trary to his statement, did order the stock sold. Both F and y 
are given in the original (written) contract, so the judge can 
compute F(x) and verify that it equals y. The only person who 
knew x was A, and the only way E could have learned x would be 
if A had revealed x. Therefore, A must have revealed x; an ac-
tion which by prior agreement meant that A wanted to sell his 
stock. 
This example illustrates a signature system which "signs" 
a single bit of information. Either A sold the stock, or he 
did not. If A wanted to tell his broker to sell 10 shares of 
stock, then A must be able to sign a several bit message. In 
the general Lamport-Diffie scheme, if A wanted to sign a mes-
sage m whose size was s bits, then he would precompute F(x 1 ) = 
Y1' F(x 2 ) = Y2' F(x 3 ) = Y3'··· F(x s ) = Ys· A and B would agree 
on the vector Y = Y1' Y2 ••• Ys. If the jth bit of m was a 1, 
A would reveal x.. If the jth bit of m was a 0, A would not J 
reveal In essence, each bit of m would be individually 
signed. Arbitrary messages can be signed, one bit at a time. 
Tn practice, long messages (greater than 100 bits) can be 
mapped into short messages (100 bits) by a one way function and 
only the short message signed. We can therefore assume, 
without loss of generality, that all messages are a fixed 
length, e.g., 100 bits. 
The method as described thus far suffers from the defect 
that B can alter m by changing bits that are 1's into a's. B 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 35 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
simply denies he ever received x., (in spite of the fact he J 
did). However, O's cannot be changed to , 'so Lamport and Dif-
fie overcame this problem by signing a new message m', which is 
exactly twice as long as m and is computed by concatenating m 
with the bitwise complement of m. That is, each bit mj in the 
original message is represented by two bits, m. and the comple­J 
ment of mj in the new message m'. Clearly, one or the other 
bit must be a O. To alter the message, B would have to turn a 
o into a " something he cannot do. 
It should now be clear why this method is a "one time" 
signature: Each Y = y" Y 2' ••• Y 2 s can only be used to sign 
one message. If more than one message is to be signed, then 
new values Y" Y2, Y3, ••• are needed, a new Yi for each mes-
sage. 
One time signatures are practical between a single pair of 
users who are willing to exchange the large amount of data 
necessary but they are not practical for most applications 
without further refinements. If each y. is '00 bits long and a 1 
100 bit one way hash function of each message is signed, each 
Yi must be 20,000 bits. If 1000 messages are to be signed be­
fore new public authentication data is needed, over 20,000,000 
bi ts or 2.5 megabytes must be stored as public informat.ion. 
Even if this is not overly burdensome when only two users, A 
and B, are involved in the signature system, if B had to keep 
2.5 megabytes of data for 1000 other users, B would have to 
store 2.5 gigabytes of data. While possible, this hardly seems 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 36 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
economical. With further increases in the number of users, or 
in the number of messages each user wants to be able to sign, 
the system becomes completely unwieldy. 
How to eliminate the huge storage requirements is a major 
subject of this chapter. 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 37 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
3. An Improved One Time Signature 
This section explains how to reduce the size of signed 
messages in the Lamport-Diffie method by almost a factor of 2. 
As previously mentioned. the Lamport-Diffie method solves 
the problem that 1 's in the original message can be altered to 
O's by doubling the length of the message, and signing each bit 
and its complement independently. In this way, changing a 1 to 
a 0 in the new message, m', would result in an incorrectly for-
matted message, which would be rejected. 
represents a solution to the problem: 
In essence, this 
Create a coding scheme in which accidental or inten­
tional conversion of 1's to O's will produce an ille­
gal codeword. 
An al ternati ve coding method which accompl ishes the same 
result is to append a count of the number of 0 bits in m before 
signing. The new message, m', would be only log2 s bits longer 
than the original s bit message, m. If any 1's in m' were 
changed to O's (O's cannot be changed to 1 's), it would falsify 
the count of O's. 
Notice that while it is possible to reduce the count by 
changing 1 's to O's in the count field, and while it is possi­
ble to increase the number of O's by changing 1 's to O's in the 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 38 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
message, these two "errors" cannot be made to compensate for 
each other. e 
A small example is in order. Assume that our messages are 
8 bits long, and that our count is 10g2 8 = 3 bits long. If 
our message m is 
m = 11010110 
Then m' would be 
m' = 11010110,011 
(Where a comma is used to clarify the division of m' into m and 
its 0 count.) 
If the codeword 11010110,011 were changed to 01010110,011 
by changing the first 1 to a 0, then the count 011 would have 
to be changed to 100 because we now have 40's, not 3. Put 
this requires changing a 0 to a 1, something we cannot do. If 
the codeword were changed to 11010110,010 by altering the 0 
count then the message would have to be changed so that it had 
only 20's instead of 3. Again, this ch8nge is illegal because 
it requires changing O's to 1 'so 
This improved method is easy to implement and cuts the 
size of the signed message almost in half, although this is 
still too large for most applications; e.g., it reduces 2.5 
gigabytes to 1.25 gigabytes. 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 39 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
4. Tree Authentication 
A new protocol would eliminate the large storage require-
ments and the need for prior arrangements. If A transmitted Y. 
1 
to E just before signing a message, then B would not previously 
have had to get and keep copies of the Y. from A. Unfortunate-1 
ly, such a protocol would not work because anyone could claim 
to be A, send a false Y., and tr ick B into thinking he had re­I 
ceived a properly authorized signature when he had received 
nothing of the kind. B must somehow be able to confirm that he 
was sent the correct Y. and not a forgery. 1 
The problem is to authenticate A's Y .• The simplest (but 1 
unsatisfactory) method is, as suggested above, to keep a copy 
of A's Yi • In this section, we describe a method called "tree 
authentication" which can be used to authenticate any Y. of any 1 
user quickly and easily, but which requires minimal storage. 
Problem Definition: Given a vector of data items! = Y1,. 
Y2, ••• Yn design an algorithm which can quickly authenticate a 
randomly chosen Y. but which has modest memory requirements, 
1 
i.e., does not. have a table of Y1, Y2, •.• Yn • 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 40 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
We authenticate the Y. by "divide and conquer". As illus-1 
trated in figure 1, define the function HCi,j,!) by 
2.) HCi,j,Y> = 
FCY. ) 
1 
where k = Ci+j)/2 
for the <i ,j> pairs of figure 1 and its extensions to larger 
trees described below. 
HCi,j,Y) is a function of Y., Y. l' ... Y. and can be used - 1 1+ J 
to authenticate all of them. HC1,n,!) can be used to authenti-
cate Y 1 through Yn and is only 100 bits, so it can be con­
veniently stored. We restrict n to powers of 2 to simplify the 
explanation. " 
This method lets us selectively authenticate any "leaf," 
Y i' that we wish. To see this, we use an example where n = 8. 
To authenticate Y5 , we proceed in the manner illustrated in 
figure 2: 
1.) HC1,8,!) is already known and authenticated. 
and HC5,8,!) and let the receiver compute HC1,a,!) = 
FC HC1,4,!), HC5,8,!) ) to confirm that they are 
correct. 
3.) The receiver has authenticated H(5, a,!). Send 
HC5,6,!) and HC7,8,!) and let the receiver compute 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 41 

Y, Y2 
,. 
H (3,3 ,1) 0 H(4, 4, Y)O H( 5,5, Y )0 H(6,6, Y ) 0 H (7,7, Y) b H (8,8 , Y) 
Y3 Y4 Y5 
FIG 1 
AN AUTHENTICATION TREE WITH N = 8. 
Y6 Y7 y. 8 
PAGE 41B 

, 
H(3,4,),:) 
H(6,6,Y)(5 H(7, 7, Y)b H(8,8,Y) 
Y1 Y2 . Y3 Ys Y7 
FIG 2 i 
.CIRCLED ENTRIES SHOW THE AUTHENTICATION PATH FOR YSI 
PAGE 41C 
'. 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
H(5,8,~) = F( H(5,6,!), H(7,8,!) ) to confirm that 
they are correct. 
4.) The receiver has authenticated H(5,6,!). Send 
H(5,5,!) and H(6,6,!) and let the receiver compute 
H(5,6,!) = F( H(5,5,!), H(6,6.!) to confirm that 
they are correct. 
5.) The receiver has authenticated H(5,5,!). Send Y5 and 
let the receiver compute H(5,5,!) = F( Y5 ) to con-
firm that it is correct. 
6.) The receiver has authenticated Y5 • 
Uslng this method, only log2 n transmissions are required, 
each of about 200 bits. Close examination of the algorithm 
will reveal that half the transmissions are redundant. For ex-
ample, H(5,6,!) can be computed from H(5,5,!) end H(6,6,!), so 
there is really no need to send H(5,E,!). Similarly, H(5,8,!) 
can be computed from H(5,6,!) and H(7,8,!), so H(5,e,!) need 
never be transmitted, either. (The recel.ver must compute these 
quantities anyway for proper authentication.) Therefore, to au-
thenticate Y5 required only that we have previously authenti­
cated H(1,8,!), and that we transmit Y5 , H(6,6,!), H(7,8,!), 
and H(1,4,!). That is, we require 100 log2 n bits of informa-
tion to authenticate an arbitrary Y .. 
1 
The method is called tree authentication because the com-
putation of H(1,n,!) forms a binary tree of recursive calls. 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 42 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
Authenticating a particular leaf Y. in the tree requires only 1 
those values of H() starting from the leaf and progressing to 
the root, i.e., from HCi,i,,!) to H(1,n,,!). H(1,n,,!) will be 
referred to as the root of the authentication tree, or R. The 
information near the path from R to HCi, i ,1) required to au-
thenticate Yi will be called the authentication path for Yi. 
A "proof" that the authentication path actually authenti-
cates the chosen leaf is similar to the "proof" that F defined 
in chapter II correctly authenticates its input. Again, more 
rigorous proofs must await advances in complexity theory. 
Although H() produces a 100 bit output, unless additional 
precautions (outlined in chapter II) are taken, only 260 or 270 
operations would suffice to break the system. To force the 
cryptanal ysis to use 2100 operations it is necessary to make 
each application of F unique, i.e., to use a family Of one way 
functions F1, F 2 , ••• each one of which is used only once. 
The use of tree authentication is now fa irly clear. A 
transmits Y. to B. A then transmits the authentication path 1 
for Y.. B knows R, the root of the authentication tree, by 
1 
prior arrangement. P can then authenticate Y., and can accept 1 
the ith signed message from A as genuine. 
The prior arrangements include the computation of R by A. 
If A wishes to be able to sign 1,000,000 messages, this pre-
computation will require about an hour, assuming a single en-
cryption takes 10 microseconds. (Fairchild is now (1979) pro-
ducing a 4-chip set which costs about $100 and which encrypts 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 43 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
faster than this.) The time required for the pre-computation is 
linear in n, so if A desires to be able to sign 1,000,000,000 
messages, his pre-computation will be about 1000 hours. 
The major distinction between this method and digital sig-
natures generated using publ ic key cryptosystems is the re-
quirement that R be changed periodically because only n mes-
sages can be signed. With a publ ic key cryptosystem, it is 
possible to sign an almost indefinite number of messages, and 
for a user to retain DA for his I ifetime if he so desires. In 
practice, this restriction does not appear to be significant. 
If the jth user has a distinct authentication tree with 
root R j' then tree authentication can be used to authenticate 
R j just as easily as it can be used to authenticate Yi • It is 
not necessary for each user to remember all the R. in order to J 
authenticate them. A central clearinghouse could accept the Rj 
from all u users, and compute H(1 ,u,.!~). This single 100 bit 
quantity could then be distrihuted and would serve to authenti-
cate all the R., which would in turn be used to authenticate J 
the Yi • In practice, A would remember R A and the authentica-
tion path for RA and send them to P along with Yi and the au­
thentication path for Yi • (A different method of authentica­
tion would be for the clearinghouse to digitally sign "letters 
of reference" for new users of the system using a one time sig-
nature. Kohnfelder [14J has suggested this method for use with 
public key cryptosystems; see chapter 9.) 
Tree authentication and authentication using one time sig-
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 44 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
natures can be intermixed to produce systems with all the flex­
ibility of public key based systems. 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 45 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
5. The Path Regeneration Algorithm 
A must know the authentication path for Y. 
1 
before 
transmitting it to B. Unfortunately this requires the computa-
tion of H(i ,j ,:0 for many different values of i and j. In the 
example, it was necessary to compute H(6,6,!), H(7.8,!), and 
H(1,4,!) and send them to B along with Y5 • This is simple for 
the small tree used in our example, but computing 
H(4194304,8388608,!) just prior to sending it would be an in-
tolerable burden. One obvious solution would be to precompute 
H(1,n,!) and to save all the intermediate computations: i.e., 
precompute all authentication paths. This would certainly al-
low the quick regeneration of the authentication path for Yi , 
but would require a large memory. 
A more satisfactory solution is to note that we wish to 
authenticate Y1, Y2 , Y3 , Y4 , ••• in that order. Most of the 
computations used in reconstructing the authentication path for 
Y. can be used in comput ing the authentication path for Y. 1. 1 1+ 
Only the incremental computations need be performed, and these 
are quite modest. 
In add it ion. although the Y. must appear to be random, 1 
they can actually be generated (safely) in a pseudo-random 
fashion from a small truly random seed. It is not necessary to 
keep the Y. in memory, but only the small truly random seed 1 
used to generate them. 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 46 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURF 
The result of these observations is an algorithm which can 
recompute each Y. and its authentication path quickly and with 1 
modest memory requirements. Before describing it we review the 
problem: 
Problem Definition: Sequentially generate the authentica-
tion paths for Y1, Y 2, Y 3, ... Yn with modest time and 
space bounds. 
The simplest way to understand how an algorithm can effi-
ciently generate all authentication paths is to generate all 
the authentication paths for a small example. 
An example of all authentication paths for n = 8 is: 
leaf 
6/4/79 
authentication path 
H(1,8,:0 H(5,8,I) H(3,4,!) H(2,2,!) 
H(1,8,!) H(5,8,!) H(3,4,!) HO,l,!) 
H(1,8,!) H(5,8,!) H(1,2,!) H(4,4,!) 
H(1,B,!) H(5,8,!) H(1,2,!) H(3,3,!) 
H(1,8,!) H(1,4,!) H(7,8,!) H(6,6,!) 
H(1,B,!) H(1,4,!) H(7,8,!) H(5,5,!) 
H ( 1 • B ,! ) H (1 , 4 ,! ) H (5 , 6 ,! ) H ( 8, 8 ,! ) 
H(1,8,!) H(1,4,!) H(5,6,!) H(7,7,!) 
TABLE 1 
Chapter V Page 47 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
If we had to separately compute each entry in table 1, then it 
would be impossible to efficient]y generate the authentication 
paths. Fortunately, there is a great deal of duplication. If 
we eliminate all duplicate entries, then table 1 becomes table 
2: 
leaf authentication path 
Y1 H(1,a,!.) H(5,a,!.) H(3,4,!.) H(2,2,!.) 
Y2 H(1,1,!.) 
Y3 H(1,2,!.) H(4,4,!) 
Y4 H(3,3,!) 
Y5 H(1,4,!) H(7,8,!) HC6,6,!) 
Y6 H(5,5,!) 
Y7 H(5,6,!) H(8,8,!) 
Ya H(7,7,!) 
TABLE 2 
Clearly we can generate all authentication paths by 
separately computing each of the 2 n-1 entries in table 2, but 
this would require too much memory, and it is not clear what 
the execution time would be. We first consider the execution 
time, the memory requirement will be considered later. Because 
all computations must eventually be defined in terms of the 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 4a 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
underlying encryption function C( key ,plaintext), it seems ap-
propriate to define execution time requirements in terms of the 
number of applications of C. One application of C counts as 
one "unit" of computation. We shall call this "unit" the "et," 
(pronounced eetee) which stands for "encryption time." 
Computing F requires a number of ets proportional to the 
length of its input. In particular, if the input is composed 
of 100 k bits, then F requires k-1 ets (see chapter 2). 
First, we must determine the cost of computing the indivi-
dual entries. The algorithm for computing H(i,j,I) from Y does 
a tree traversal of the subtree whose leaves are Y., Y. l' 1 1+ 
Y. 2' ••• Y .• At each non-leaf node in this traversal it does 1+ J 
1 et of computation (one application of F to a 200-bit argu-
ment). A tree with j-i+1 leaves has j-i non-leaf nodes, i.e., 
j-i nodes internal to the tree. For example, a tree with 8 
leaves has 4 + 3 + 2 + 1 = 10 internal nodes. Because there 
are j-i non-leaf nodes, computing H(i ,j ,I) requires j-i ets, 
excluding the leaves. The computations required to regenerate 
a leaf (using a truly random seed in a pseudo random number 
generator) will be fixed and finite. Let r be the (fixed) 
number of ets required to regenerate a leaf. There are (j-i+1) 
leaves, so the overall cost of computing HCi,j,I) is (j-i) + 
(j-i+1) • r ets. In practice r will be a few hundred, so we 
can approximate this by (j-i+1) • r ets. 
We can now approximate the cost of computing each entry in 
table 2. There are n entries which require about r ets, n/2 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 49 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
entries which require about 2 r ets, n/4 entries which require 
about 4 r ets, and n/8 entr ies which require about 8 r ets. 
This means that the total cost of computing all entries in a 
single column is about 8 r ets. There are 4 columns, so the to­
tal computational effort is about 4·8 r = 32 r ets. In gen­
eral, the computational effort required to compute table 2 will 
be n • (1 + 10g2 n) • r ets. This is because computing all the 
entries in each column will require n • r ets, and there are 1 
+ 10g2 n columns. 
This result impl ies that an algorithm which sequentially 
generated the authentication paths would require an average of 
about 
r • 10g2 n (5.1) 
ets per path, where r is a constant representing the number of 
ets required to regenerate a leaf. This is quite reasonable. 
Although the time required to generate each authentication 
path is small, we must also insure that the space required is 
small and that the computational burden is smoothly distributed 
as a function of time. We can do this by again looking at 
table 2. As we sequentially generate the authentication paths, 
we will sequentially go through the entries in a column. This 
implies that at any point in time there are only two entries in 
a column of any interest to us: the entry needed in the current 
authentication path, and the entry immediately following it. 
We must know the entry in the current authentication path, for 
without it, we could not generate that path. At some point, we 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 50 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
will need the next entry in the column to generate the next au-
thentication path. Because it might require a great deal of 
effort to compute the next entry (e.g. to compute H(1,4,!», we 
need to compute it incrementally, and to begin computing it 
well in advance of the time we will actually require it to gen-
erate an authentication path. 
As an example, H(5,8,!) is required in the authentication 
paths for Y1' Y2 , Y3, and Y4 while H(1,4,!) is required in the 
paths for Y5, Y6 , Y7, and Y8" The values of HO for the first 
authentication path must be precomputed with some del ay (dis-
cussed below). Once this precomputation is complete, the 
succeeding values of H() required in succeeding authentication 
paths must be incrementally computed. As we generate the first 
4 authentication paths, we must be continuously computing 
H(1,4,!) even though it is not needed until we reach Y5 • If we 
wai ted until time 5 to start computing it, it would take about 
4 r ets to compute and entail some delay. By computing H dur-
ing times 1 through 4, a processor capable of only r ets/unit 
time is needed. In general, if the tree is of depth k it will 
take 2k- 1 • r ets to compute the second element in the second 
column, but there are 2k- 1 time units in which to compute it, 
again requiring a processor capable of only r ets/unit time. 
Similarly, we must start computing the second element in 
the third column, H( 1, 2,!). when we generate the first authen-
tication path. It takes about 2 r ets to compute this element 
k-2) . . t (2k -2 . (2 in general • but there are 2 tlme unl s ln gen-
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 51 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
era!). in which to do this. so the processor for computing en-
tries in the third column also needs to operate at only r 
ets/unit time. k-i-1 It is seen that it takes 2 • r ets to com-
t th t t . th . k-i-1 pu e _e nex en ry 1n e 1 th column and that there are 2 
time units in which to do this. Thus. only one processor is 
needed per column (10g2 n in all). and each processor need 
operate at only r ets/unit time. 
If we assume a convenient block size (of 100 bits) and if 
we ignore constant factors. then the memory required by this 
method can be computed. We can first determine the memory re-
quired by the computations in each column, and then sum over 
all 10g2 n columns. We must have one block to store the 
current entry in the column. We must al so have enough memory 
to compute the next entry in the column. The memory required 
while computing H<i,j,.!) is 1 + 10g2 (j-i+1) blocks. This as-
sumes a straightforward recursive algorithm whose maximum stack 
depth will be 1 + 10g2 (j-i+1). The memory required to recom­
pute a leaf (to recompute H<i,i.!» is ignored because it is 
small (a few blocks). constant. and the same memory can be 
shared by all the columns. Representing the memory require-
ments of H() in a new table in the same format as table 2 gives 
table 3: 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 52 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
leaf memory required to compute entries 
in authentication path (in blocks) 
Y1 II 3 2 
Y2 
Y3 2 
Y4 
Y5 3 2 
Y6 
Y7 2 
Y8 1 
TABLE 3 
Table 3 shows the memory required to compute each entry in 
table 2. Clearly the memory required to compute H(i,i,I) is 1. 
The memory required to compute H(1,2,I) = 1 + the memory re-
quired to compute H( 1,1 ,I) since we first compute B( 1,1 ,I) and 
must remember it to compute H(1,2,I). Similarly, to compute 
H(1,2 t ,I) requires one more memory location than was needed for 
t-1 H(1,2 ,I). The memory required for each column will be about 
the memory required during the computation of a single entry in 
the column because once an entry is computed, the memory is 
available to compute the next entry and the old entry is dis-
carded after use. This means the total memory required will be 
about: 3 + 2 + 1 = 6 blocks. (This assumes we do not recompute 
H(1,8,I))· 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 53 
'" 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
For n in general, there are 10g2 n columns and each column 
requires, on an average, (10g2 n)/2 blocks so the total memory 
required will be on the order of: 
2 (10g2 n) 12 blocks 
This means that the memory required when n = 220 
(1,048,576) is about 20'20/2 = 200 blocks. For 100 bit blocks, 
this means 20 kilobits, or 2.5 kilobytes. Other overhead might 
amount to 2 or 3 kilobytes, giving an algorithm which requires 
5 or 6 kilobytes of memory, in total. 
Readers interested in implementing this technique can use 
the following program, written in a Pascal-like language with 
two multiprocessing primitives added: 
1.) While <condition> wait 
2.) Fork <statement> 
In addition, the function "MakeY(i)" will regenerate the value 
of Y. from the truly random seed. 
1 
Declare flag: array[O •• 10g2Cn)-1J of integer; 
AP: array[0 •• 10g2(n)-1J of block; 
(* AP -- Authentication Path *) 
Procedure Gen(i); 
Begin 
i+1 For j:= 1 to n step 2 Do 
6/4179 Chapter V Page 54 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
Begin 
Emit(i,H(j+2 i ,j+2 i +1-1»; 
Emit(i,H(j,j+2 i -1»; 
End; 
End; 
Procedure Emit(i,value); 
Begin 
While flag[i] i 0 wait; 
APU]:= value; 
i flagU]:= 2 ; 
End; 
Procedure H(a,b); 
Begin 
If a = b Return( F(~akeY(a») 
Else 
Return(F(H(a,(a+b-1)/2),H«a+b+1)/2,b»; 
(* Note that F should be parameterized by 
the user's name and by a and b. If 
this is not done, Y must be made larger 
to assure security (see chapter II). *) 
End; 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 55 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
(* The main program *) 
Begin 
For i := 0 to 10g2(n)-1 Do 
Begin 
flag[i]:= 0; 
Fork GenCi); 
End; 
For j:= 1 to n Do 
Begin 
Print("Authentication Path ", j, " is:"); 
For k := 0 to 10g2Cn)-1 Do 
Begin 
While flag[k] = 0 wait; 
PrintCAP[k]); 
flag[k]:= flag[k]-1; 
End; 
End; 
End; 
The general structure of this program is simple: the main 
routine forks off 10g2 n processes to deal with the 10g2 n 
columns. Then it prints each authentication path by sequen­
tially printing an output from each process. The major omis­
sion in this program is the rate at which each process does its 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 56 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
computations. It should be cleC'lr from the previous discussion 
that each process has adequate time to compute its next output. 
There are three major ways of improving this algorithm. 
First, each process is completely independent of the other 
processes. However, separate processes often require the same 
intermediate values of H(), and could compute these values once 
and share the result. 
Second, values of H() are discarded after use, and must be 
recomputed later when needed. While saving all values of H() 
takes too much memory, saving some values can reduce the compu­
tation time and also reduce memory requirements. The reduction 
in memory is because of the savings in memory when the saved 
value is not recomputed. Recomputing a value requires memory 
for the computation, while saving the value requires only a 
single block. 
Finally, the memory requirements can be reduced by care­
fully scheduling the processes. While it is true that each 
process requires about 10g2 n blocks of memory, this is a max­
imum requirement, not a typical requirement. By speeding up 
the execution of a process when it is using a lot of memory, 
and then slowing it down when it is using little memory, the 
average memory requirement of a process (measured in block­
seconds) can be greatly reduced. By scheduling the processes 
so that the peak memory requirements of one process coincide 
wi th the minimum memory requirements of other processes, the 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 57 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
total memory required can be reduced. 
All three approaches deserve more careful study because 
the potential savings in time and space might be large. Even 
wi thout such improvements the technique is completely practi-
cal. 
Before the time requirements of the algorithm can be fully 
analyzed, a description of MakeY is needed: i.e., we must 
determine r in equation (5.1). If we assume that the improved 
version of the Lamport-Diffie algorithm is used, then MakeY 
must generate pseudo-random Xi vectors, from which Yi vectors 
can then be generated. If the one way hashed messages are all 
100 bits long, then the Xi vectors will have 100 + 10g2 100 = 
107 elements. 
The X. vect.ors can be generated using a conventional ci-
1 
pher, C(key,plaintext). A single 200 bit secret key is re-
quired as the "seed" of the pseudo-random process which gen-
erates the Xi vect.ors. The output of C is always 100 bits, and 
the input must be 100 bits or fewer, (if fewer, O's are append-
ed). We can now define x .. as l,J 
x. . = C ( seed ke y , < i , j> ) l,J 
where "seedkey" is the 200 bit secret and truly random key used 
as the "seed" of this somewhat unconventional pseudo-random 
number generator. The s}Jbscript i is in the range 1 to n, 
while the subscript j is in the range 1 to 107. There are n 
possible messages, each 100 bits in length. Each Xi is a vec-
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 58 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
tor xi ,1' xi ,2' ••• xi ,107' 
Determining any xi ,j knowing some of the other xi ,j' s is 
equivalent to the problem of cryptanalyzing C under a known 
plaintext attack. If C is a good encryption function, it will 
not be possible to determine any of the xi . without already ,J 
knowing the key. The secret vectors Xi are therefore safe. 
We know that Yi . = F(x .. ), and that HCi,i,Y) = F(Y.) = ,J 1,J - 1 
F(Yi,1' Yi,2' Yi,3' .•• Yi,107). The cost of computing F(Yi ) 
is 106 ets, because Yi is 107'100 bits long. The total effort 
to compute H( i ,i ,I) is the effort to generate the elements of 
the Xi vector, plus the effort to compute F(Xi 1)' F(x i 2)' ••• , , 
F(x. ), plus the effort to compute F(Yi ). This is 107 ets to 1,n 
compute the Xi vector, 107 ets to compute the Yi vector, and 
106 ets to compute F(Y.) = HCi,i,Y). This is a total of 320 
1 -
ets to regenerate each leaf in the authentication tree. 
Using equation (5. 1 ), we know that the cost per authenti-
cation path is 320 10g2 nets. 20 For n = 2 ,this is 6400 ets. 
To generate authentication paths at the rate of one per second 
implies 1 et is about 160 microseconds. While easily done in 
hardware, this speed is difficult to attain in software on 
current computers. Reducing the number of ets per authentica-
tion path is a worthwhile goal. This can effectively be done 
by reducing either the cost of computing H(i,i,!), or by reduc-
ing the number of times that H(i,i,!) has to be computed. 
As mentioned earlier, keeping previously computed values 
of H() rather than discarding them and sharing commonly used 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 59 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
val ues of H() among the 10g2 n processes reduces the cost of 
computing each authentication path. In fact, a reduction from 
over 6000 ets to about 1300 ets (for n = 220) can be attained. 
(To put this in perspective, MakeY requires 320 ets and must be 
executed at least once per authentication path. Therefore, 320 
ets is the absolute minimum that can be attained without modi-
fying MakeY.) This means the path regeneration algorithm can 
run in reasonable time (a few seconds) even when the underlying 
encryption function, C, is implemented in software. 
6/4179 Chapter V Page 60 

A CERTIFIED DIGITAL SIGNATURE 
6. Conclusion 
Digital signature systems not requiring public key cryp­
tosystems are possible and desirable because they are easy to 
certify. Such a system was described which had modest space 
and time requirements and a signature size of about 15 kilo­
bits. The method described can be implemented at once, with no 
delay due to certification. 
6/4/79 Chapter V Page 61 

VI. THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
1. Introduction 
This chapter describes a public key cryptosystem based on 
the knapsack problem. Given a one-dimensional knapsack of 
length Sand n rods of lengths a a the "k k 1. 2 •.•• ,a n , napsac 
problem" is to find a subset of the rods which exactly fills 
the knapsack, if such a subset exists. Equivalently, find a 
binary n-vector ~ such that S = ~ * ~. if such an x exists, (* 
applied to vectors denotes dot product.) 
A supposed solution ~ is easily checked in at most n addi-
tions, but finding a solution is believed to require a number 
of operations which grows exponentially in n. Exhaustive, tri-
al and error search over all 2n possible ~'s is computationally 
infeasible if n is larger than one or two hundred. The best 
published method for solving knapsacks of the form considered 
here requires 2n/2 complexity both in time and memory [10J. In 
addition, Schroeppel [33J has devised an algorithm which takes 
O(2n/2) time and O(2n/ 4 ) space. Theory supports the belief 
that the knapsack problem is hard because it is an NP-complete 
problem [footnote page 81], and is therefore one of the most 
difficul t computational problems of a cryptographic nature [1 
pp 363-404J [6]. Its degree of difficulty, however, is cru­
cially dependent on the choice of a. If ~ = (1,2,4, ••• 2n- 1 ), 
then solving for x is equivalent to finding the binary 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 62 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
representation of S. Somewhat less trivially, if for all i, 
(6.1) 
then ~ is also easily found: xn =1 if and only if S ~ an and, 
for i = n-1,n-2, ••• 1, xi = 1 if and only if 
n 
s - ~ x • a. > L.J j J 
j=i+1 
(6.2) 
While the theory of NP-complete problems and these exam-
pIes demonstrate that the knapsack problem is only difficult 
from a worst case point of view, it is probably true that 
choosing the ai independently and uniformly from the integers 
between 1 and 2n generates a difficult problem with probability 
tending to one as n tends to infinity. While several efficient 
algorithms exist for solving the knapsack problem under special 
conditions [10], [11], [16], none of these special conditions 
is applicable to trap door knapsacks generated as suggested in 
this chapter. 
A trap door knapsack [6] is one in which careful choice of 
a allows the designer to easily solve for any ~, but which 
prevents anyone else from finding the solution. We will 
describe one method for constructing a trap door knapsack, and 
another (multiplicative) method due to Hellman is described in 
[21]. We first indicate how knapsacks can be used to hide in-
formation. Each user I in a system generates a trap door knap-
6/4179 Chapter VI Page 63 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
sack vector, ~(I), and places it in a public file with his name 
and address. When someone wishes to send the binary informa­
tion vector x to the Ith user, he sends S = x * a(T). The in­
tended recipient can recover x from ~ but no one else can. 
Section 5 shows how trap door knapsacks can be used to generate 
electronic signatures and receipts [6]. 
Eefore proceeding, a word of caution is in order. First, 
as is always the case in computational cryptography, we cannot 
yet prove that the systems described in this chapter are 
secure. For brevity, however, we will not continue to repeat 
this. Second, the trap door knapsacks described in this 
chapter form a proper subset of all possible knapsacks and 
their solutions are therefore not necessarily as difficult as 
for the hardest knapsacks, and it is the hardest knapsacks with 
which NP theory is concerned. 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 64 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
2. ! Method for Constructing Trap Door Knapsacks 
The designer chooses two large numbers, m and w, such that 
w is invertible modulo m (equivalently GCD(w,m)=1). He selects 
a knapsack vector,.!' which satisfies (6.1) and therefore al-
lows easy solution of S' = a' * x. He then transforms the 
easily solved knapsack vector a' into a trap door knapsack vec-
tor a via the relation 
a i = w • a'i mod m (6.3) 
The ai are pseudo-randomly distributed and it therefore appears 
that anyone who knows .!' but not wand m, would have great dif-
ficulty in solving a knapsack problem involving a. The 
designer, on the other hand, can easily compute 
-1 S' = w • S mod m 
-1 
·E = w xi 
= w • xi -1 E 
= Ex .• a'. 1 1 
If m is chosen so that 
m > ~ a' LJ i 
• a. mod m 1 
• w • a' i mod m 
mod m 
then (6.7) implies that S' is equal to 2':xi 
(6.4) 
(6.5) 
(6.6) 
(6.7) 
(6.8) 
a' i in integer 
arithmetic as well as mod m. This knapsack is easily solved 
for ~, which is also the solution to the apparently difficult, 
but trap door, knapsack problem S = ~ * ~. 
To help make these ideas clearer, we give a small example 
with n = 5. Taking m = 8443, .!' = (171,196,457,1191,2410). and 
-1 w = 2550 (so w = 3950). then a = (5457,1663.216,6013,7439). 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 65 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
Given S = 1663 + 6013 + 7439 = 15115, the designer computes 
-1 S' = w • S mod m (6.9) 
= 3950 • 15115 mod 8443 (6.10) 
= 3797 (6.11) 
Because S' > a'5' he determines that x5 = 1. Then, using (6.2) 
for the a' vector, he determines that x4 = 1, x3 = 0, x2 = 1, 
x1 = 0, which is also the correct. solution to S = a * x. 
Anyone else who does not know m, ~', and w has great dif-
ficul ty in solving for .! in S = a * .! even though the general 
method used for generating the trap door knapsack vector a must 
be public. His task can be further complicated by scrambling 
the order of the ai' and by adding different random multiples 
of m to each of the a i • 
The example given was extremely small in size and only in-
tended to illustrate the technique. Using n = 100, which is 
the bottom end of the usable range for secure systems, m can be 
chosen uni formly from the numbers between 2201 + 1 and 2202 -
1· a' b h . f 1 f th [1 2100]. , , 1 can e c osen unl orm y rom e range, , a 2 
can be chosen uniformly from [2'00 + 1, 2·2'°°]; 
chosen uni formly from 
a' can be 3 
a' . 1 can be 
chosen uniformly from [(2 i -'_1).2'00+1, 2i - 1.2'00)]; ••• a'100 
can be chosen uniformly from [(2 99_1).2'00 +1, 299 .2'°°]; and 
w can be chosen uniformly from [2, m-2] and then repeatedly di-
vided by the greatest common divisor of wand m, to yield the 
value of w that is actually used. 
These choices ensure that (6.8) is met and that an op-
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 66 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
ponent has at least 2100 possibilities for each parameter and 
hence cannot search over even one of them. Note that each a. 1 
will be pseudo-randomly distributed between 1 and m-1 and hence 
will require a 202 bit representation. S will require a 209 
bit representation, so there is a 2.09: 1 data expansion from x 
to S. 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 67 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
3. An Iterative Method 
This section discusses techniques for improving the secu-
rity and utility of the basic methods. 
In the first method we transformed a hard and apparently 
very difficult knapsack problem, ~. into a very simple and 
easily solved knapsack problem, ~', by means of the transforma-
tion: 
-1 a ' . = w ·a. mod m 1 1 
(6.15) 
We could solve a knapsack invol ving ~ because we could solve a 
knapsack involving ~'. Notice, though, that it does not matter 
why we are able to solve knapsacks involving ~', all that 
matters is that we can solve them. Rather than requiring that 
~' satisfy (6.1), we could require that a ' be transformable 
into a new problem, ~", by the transformation: 
-1 a I I. = w'. a I. mod m I 
1 1 
(6.16) 
where the new problem, ~", satisfies (6.1), or is otherwise 
easy to solve. Having done the transformation twice, there is 
no problem in doing it a third time. That is, we select an a" 
which is easy to solve, not because it satisfies (6.1), but be-
cause it can be transformed into ~"', which is easy to solve, 
by: 
-1 a I I I. = W I I • a I '. mod m I , 
1 1 (6.17) 
It is clear that we can repeat this process as often as we 
wish. 
With each successive transformation, the structure in the 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 68 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
publicly known vector, ,!, becomes more and more obscure. In 
essence, we are encrypting the simple knapsack vector by the 
repeated application of a transformation which preserves the 
basic structure of the problem. The final result,! appears to 
be a collection of random numbers. The fact that the problem 
can be easily solved has been totally obscured. 
The effect of repeating the process several times is very 
different from that obtained with certain ciphers, such as a 
simple substitution. A simple substitution cipher is not 
strengthened by repetition because the composition of two sub-
stitution ciphers is yet another substitution cipher. The 
(w,m) transformations do not have this closure property. The 
following example shows that the repetition of two (w,m) 
transforms i.s not in general equivalent to a single (w,m) 
transform. 
If w = 3, m = 89, w' = 17, m' = 47, and .!" = (5,10,20) 
t.hen a' = <38,29, 11) and a = (25, 87,33) • Assume there ex ists w 
and m such that 
a = w • a" mod m 
Then a 1 = 25 and a"1 = 5 implies that 
25 = w • 5 mod m 
From this we have 
2 • 25 = w • 2 • 5 mod m 
or 
(6.18) 
(6.19) 
(6.20) 
50 = w • 10 mod m (6.21) 
But now the relation a2 = 87 and a"2 = 10 implies that 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 69 

.LHE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
,.. 
87 = w • 10 mod m (6.22) 
,.. 
so 87 = 50 mod m, or 37 = 0 mod m, which implies that m = 37. 
Equation (6.19) then becomes 
,.. 
25 = m • 5 mod 37 (6.23) 
,.. 
so w = 5. But if w = 5, and m = 37, then equation (6.18) for 
a3 = 33 and a"3 = 20 becomes 
33 = 5 • 20 mod 37 (6.24) 
or 33 = 26 mod 37, a contradiction. We conclude that no such w 
and m can exist. 
The original, easy to solve knapsack vector can meet any 
condition, such as (6.1) which guarantees that it is easy to 
solve. 
It is important to consider the rate of growth of ,!, be-
cause this rate determines the data expansion involved in 
transmitting the n bit vector x as the larger quantity S. The 
rate of growth depends on the method of selecting the numbers 
but, with n = 100, each ai need be at most 7 bits larger than 
the corresponding a'i' each a'i need be at most 7 bits larger 
than a"i' etc. etc. Each successive stage of the transforma­
tion need increase the size of the problem by only a small, 
fixed amount. Repeating the transformat·ion 20 times will add 
at most 140 bits to each ai • If each a i is 200 bits long to 
begin with, then they need only be 340 bits long after 20 
stages, and S is representable in 347 bits. The data expansion 
is then only 3.47:1. 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 70 

THE TFAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
4. Compressing The Public File 
As described above, the Ith user must place his trap door 
knapsack vector, ~(I), in a public file. The Jth user can then 
look up ~(I), and send a message.! to I, hidden as S = a{I) * 
x. To avoid storing the rather large vector ~ (I), J could ask 
I to transmit a{I) to him. But, unless J has some method for 
testing ~(I), user K might fool J by sending him ~(K), and say­
ing it was a{I). J would then mistakenly tell all his secrets 
to K. A method is needed for J to convince himself that he was 
really sent a{I). With a public file, each user can make one 
personal appearance when depositing his vector and, after so 
identifying himself to the system, he could identify (authenti­
cate) himself to any user by his ability to decipher messages 
hidden with his vector. The file itself must be protected, but 
this is relatively easy because only write protection is need­
ed. 
To preserve this authentication benefit of the public 
file, but to reduce its size(20 or more kilobits per user) we 
suggest storing a 100 bit one-way hash total, h[~{r)], instead 
of a(I) itself. When J receives a(I) from I he computes 
h[a{I)] and checks this against I's value stored in the public 
file. The hash function, h, must be a one-way function [6], 
[38], [1], [28] so that K cannot generate a new vector a{K) 
such that h[a{K)] = h[{~{I)], without having to perform a com­
putationally impossible feat. 
6/4/19 Chapter VI Page 11 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
Allowing 200 bits for storing the user's name and address, 
(or "phone number"), the public file now contains 300 bits, in­
stead of over 20 kilobits, per user. A system with a million 
users requires a 300 million bit,. instead of a 20 billion bit, 
public file. Transmission costs are comparable for both im­
plementations. 
A 100 bit number can be coded as 20 alphanumeric charac­
ters, which is small enough to fit in a phone book. A typical 
entry would look like this: 
Joe Smith •••••• 497-1573 
KSDJR E6K65 3GFVM OMK4K 
The extra entry, KSDJR E6K65 3GFVM OMK4K, is the one-way hash 
total of Smith's trap door knapsack vector, !.(Smith). With 
this information, we can call up Smith, and hold a secure 
conversation with him, which no one else can understand. We do 
not need to have met Smith previously to know we are talking 
with him or for him to know he is talking with us. 
Transmitting 20 kilobits on a high speed, 50 kbps link, 
takes 0.4 second, but on a low speed, 300 bps I ink, it takes 
over a minute. The transmission time can be reduced by a fac­
tor of 5, to about 4 kilobits, which takes less than 15 seconds 
to transmit at 300 bps, by cutting the number of a i to n=20. 
The vector .!' however, now has only 20 binary elements, which 
is small enough to allow solution by exhaustive search. To 
maintain security, the information in the.! vector must be in­
creased to about 100 bits, while keeping n = 20. This can be 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 72 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
done by allowing each element, x., to take on values in the set 1 
{0,1,2,3, ••• ,31}, instead of just in {0,1}. Specifying each xi 
takes 5 bits, and specifying the whole vector x takes 100 bits. 
Equation (6.1) must now be modified to 
i-1 
ai > 31 • L a j 
j=1 
(6.25) 
If n is reduced to 1 and the single element of the ~ vec-
100 tor assumes a value in {0,1,2, ••• 2 -1}, then the system is 
easily broken because 
x = Sia (6.26) 
When n=2, the system can also be broken easily, by an a1-
gorithm similar in spirit to the greatest common divisor a1go-
rithm. It seems that small values of n weaken the system, and 
further research is needed to determine how small n can be, 
while still preserving security. The value n = 20 suggested 
above must be treated with suspicion until an adequate certifi-
cationa1 study is conducted. 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 73 

~HE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
5. Signatures 
As discussed in [6], the need for a digital equivalent of 
a written signature is a major barrier to the replacement of 
physical mail by teleprocessing systems. Usual digital authen­
ticators protect against third party forgeries, but cannot be 
used to settle disputes between the transmitter and receiver as 
to what message, if any, was sent. A true digital signature 
allows the recipient to prove that a particular message was 
sent to him by a particular person. Obviously, it must be im-
possible for the recipient to alter the contents of the message 
and generate the corresponding signature, but it must be easy 
for him to check the validity of a signature for any message 
from any user. A digital signature can also be used to gen-
erate receipts. The recipient signs a message saying, "I have 
received the following message: TEXT." This section describes 
how trap door knapsacks might be used to generate such signa­
tures and receipts. 
If every S in some large fixed range had an inverse image 
x then it could be used to provide signatures. When the Ith 
user wanted to send the message m he would compute and transmit 
x such that a(I) * x = m. The recipient could easily compute m 
from x and, by checking a date/time field (or some other redun­
dancy in m), determine that the message was authentic. Because 
the recipient could not generate such an ~ he saves x as proof 
that the Ith user sent him the message m. 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 74 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
This method of generating signatures can be modified to 
work when the density of solutions (the fraction of S between 0 
and ~ ai which have solutions to x * ~ = S) is less than '. 
provided it is not too small. The message m is sent in pla1n-
text form. or encrypted if eavesdropping is a threat. and a se-
quence of one-way functions [6J. [38J. [7J. [28J y, = F,(m). Y2 
are computed. The transmitter then seeks inverse 
images for y1. y2 •••• until one is found and appends the 
corresponding ~ to m as a signature. The receiver computes y = 
a * x and checks that y is equal to Yk with k not too large. 
for example at most 10 times the expected value of k. 
or 
The sequence of functions F.(·) can be as simple as; 1 
F. (m) = F(m) + i 
1 
F. (m) = F(m+i) 1 
(6.20a) 
(6.20b) 
where F(·) is a one-way function. It is necessary that the 
range of F(·) have at least 2100 values to foil trial and error 
attempts at forgery. If the message is much longer than '00 
bits. the expansion caused by the addition of a 100 bit authen-
tication field is unimportant. 
If the trap door knapsack vector were generated as sug-
gested at the end of section 2. the solution density would be 
less than '/(2 100 ). and over 2100 Yk would have to be tried. on 
the average. before one with a solution was found. It is pos-
sible. however. to use the iterative method of section 3 to ob­
tain a solution density of approximately 1/(10~) with two 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 75 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
iterations or 1/(10 6) with three iterations, when n = 100. 
First, a knapsack vector ~" with a solution density near 1 is 
selected. If ~" = (1,2,4,8, •.. ,299 ) then the solution density 
is 1, but increasing some of the larger a"i need not greatly 
reduce the solution density. For example, 
(1,2,4,8,17,35.68,142) has a solution density of .92 and still 
satisfies (6.1). Such choices may not be necessary, but they 
provide an additional margin of safety at almost no additional 
cost. 
After selecting ~' " parameters m' and w' are chosen such 
that m' > a" i and w-', exists modulo m'. The weak trap 
door knapsack vector 
a'=w'·a" mod m' (6.27) 
is then computed. New parameters m > a'. and w (wi th w 2: -1 
- 1 
eXisting mod m) are chosen, and the more secure trap door knap-
sack vector 
a = w • a' mod m (6.28) 
is computed. The process can be iterated more than twice to 
obtain the final vector, ,!, but the solution density typically 
decreases by a factor of n/2 with each iteration. When used 
for hiding information this decrease is of little importance, 
but when used for signatures, several iterations are all that 
can be afforded because of the need for a high solution densi-
ty. With so few iterations, it is possible for two adjacent a i 
to be in the same ratio (usually 2: 1) as they were in the ~ 
vector. This weakness can be overcome by adding multiples of 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 76 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
m' (or m) to a subset of the a'i (or ai ) which suffer from this 
problem. This decreases the solution density somewhat, and ac­
counts for our 1/(10 4) and 1/(10 6) estimates for two and three 
iterations when n = 100. 
A small example is again helpful in illustrating the 
method. Starting with 
~" = (1,2,4,8,17,35,68,142) (6.29) 
whose components sum to 277, we choose m' = 291 and w' = 176 
( -1 w' = 167), resulting in 
~' = (176,61,122,244,82,49,37,257) (6.30) 
The second, third and fourth components are in the ratio of 2:1 
which can be hidden by adding m' to the third component to ob-
tain the new vector 
a' = (176,61,413,244,82,49,37,257) (6.31> 
whose components sum to 1319. Choosing m = 1343, w = 498 (w-1 
= 925) yields 
~ = (353,832,195,642,5 46,228,967,401) (6.32 ) 
whose components sum to 4164 • The density of solutions using a 
is 256/4164 = .061 so approximately 16 attempts are needed, on 
the average, to obtain a signature. This agrees well with the 
2 2 estimated range of n /4 = 16 to n = 64. 
The density of solutions can be increased by restricting 
the Yk to I ie near the midd Ie of the range (0, ~ a . ), say L-l 
between 1000 and 3000 in this example. The law of large 
numbers indicates that for most .!' the sum a * x will lie in 
this range. 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 77 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
Shamir [43] has developed a different method of using the 
knapsack problem to obtain signatures. 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 78 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
6. Discussion 
We have shown that it is possible to construct trap door 
knapsack problems and that information and signatures can be 
hidden in them for transmission over an insecure channel. Con­
ventional cryptographic systems also can hide information and 
authenticators during transmission over an insecure channel, 
but have the disadvantage that first a "key" must be exchanged 
via courier service or some other secure means. Also, in con-
ventional cryptography, the authenticator only prevents third 
party forgeries and cannot be used to settle disputes between 
the transmitter and receiver as to whether a message was actu­
ally sent. 
We have not proved that it is computationally difficult 
for an opponent who does not know the trap information to solve 
the problem. Indeed, proofs of security are not yet available 
for normal cryptographic systems, and even the general knapsack 
problem has not been proved difficult to solve. The theory of 
computational complexity has not yet reached the level of 
development where such proofs are feasible. The best published 
algorithm for solving the knapsack problem is exponential, tak­
ing 0(2 n/2 ) time and space [10 J. Schroeppel [33, unpublished] 
has devised an algorithm which takes 0(2 n/2 ) time and 0(2 n/4 ) 
space. 
Faith in the security of these systems must therefore rest 
on intuition and on the failure of concerted attempts to break 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 79 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
them. 
Attempts to break the system can start with simplified 
problems (e.g. assuming m is known) (see chapter VII section 
5.) If even the most favored of certificationa1 attacks is un­
successful, then there is a margin of safety against cleverer, 
wealthier, or luckier opponents. Or, if the favored attack is 
successful, it helps establish where the security really must 
reside. 
As noted, the techniques suggested in this chapter gen­
eralize to xi in the set {0,1,2,3, ••• ,Nl. The advantages and 
weaknesses of such systems deserve further study. 
Recently, Rivest, Shamir, and Ad1eman [31] have proposed 
another public key cryptosystem, which yields signatures more 
directly because the density of solutions in their problem is 
1. Their system also requires a smaller key (apparently 600 
bits versus 20 ki10bits); but is significantly slower. Neither 
system's security has been adequately established but, when 
iterated, the trap door knapsack appears less likely to possess 
a chink in its armor. When used for obtaining signatures, the 
trap door knapsack appears to be the weaker of the two. Both 
public key systems clearly need further certification and 
study. 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 80 

THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK 
7. Footnote 
Other definitions of the knapsack problem exist in the 
literature [10], [11J, [31J. The definition used here is 
adapted from Karp [13]. To be precise, Karp's knapsack problem 
is to determine whether or not a solution ~ exists, while the 
corresponding cryptographic problem is to determine what x is, 
given that it exists. The cryptographic problem is not NP­
complete, but is just as hard as the corresponding NP-complete 
problem. If there is an algorithm for solving the cryptograph­
ic problem in time T(n), i.e., for determining ~ given that it 
exists, then we can determine whether or not an x exists in 
time T(n), Le., solve the corresponding NP-complete problem. 
If the algorithm determines ~ in time T(n), then some ~ exists. 
If the algorithm does not determine ~ in time T(n), or deter­
mines an incorrect x --which is easily checked-- then no such x 
exists. 
6/4/79 Chapter VI Page 81 

VII. HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
1. Introduction 
Although the knapsack problem can be used as the basis of 
a public key cryptosystem, a closer investigation of its secu­
rity is needed in order to select the size and exact type of 
trapdoor knapsack to use. This chapter is a study of the knap­
sack problem from several perspectives, in an attempt to deter­
mine how secure it is, and what type of trapdoor knapsack is 
most sui table for actual implementation. Besides discussing 
the best known algorithms for solving the knapsack problem, and 
for solving special cases of the trapdoor knapsack problem, it 
also gives direct reductions of Boolean circuits to the knap­
sack problem. (The problem of Boolean circuits has already 
been shown to be NP-complete. As a byproduct of this reduction 
we show that if DES [24] is secure, so are general knapsacks 
with n = 10,000.) The proofs presented are accessible to anyone 
with a modest knowledge of Boolean circuit theory, and require 
no theoretical background, (in particular, no knowledge of NP 
complete problems is assumed.) They can serve to demystify com­
plexity theory as applied to the knapsack problem. 
There are two aspects to the complexity of the knapsack 
problem. First, does there exist a method of solving the trap­
door knapsack which cannot solve the general knapsack problem? 
That is, is the trapdoor knapsack problem easy to solve even 
though the general knapsack problem is NP-complete and there-
6/4/79 Chapter VIr Page 82 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
fore presumably hard to solve? Secondly. what is the complexi­
ty of the general knapsack problem? Do there exist unusually 
efficient algorithms for solving the knapsack problem? Do 
there exist algorithms which will rapidly solve some knapsack 
problems? This chapter first attempts to give a better idea of 
the complexity of the general knapsack problem. both by consid­
ering the most efficient algorithms known for its solution. and 
by examining direct reductions of Boolean circuits to the knap­
sack problem. It will then examine some algorithms which can 
efficiently break certain specialized cases of the trapdoor 
knapsack problem. 
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 83 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
2. The Knapsack Problem 
The knapsack problem is: given an integer S and an integer 
vector a = a 1, a 2 , a 3 , ••• an find a vector ~ = x1' x2 '.·· xn 
where x. is in {O, 1} such that S = x * ~, (where n* n denotes 1 
dot product.) 
Karp [13] showed that this problem is NP-complete. The 
best published algorithm for solving this problem requires 2n/2 
operations and 2n/2 memory [10 J. This algorithm is simpl e in 
nature: all possible sums involving a 1, a 2 , ••• an/2 are gen­
erated, and the 1 ist of 2n/2 possible sums is sorted. Then, 
all possible sums involving an/2 +1 , a n/2 +2 , an are gen-
erated, each sum is subtracted from S, and the resulting list 
of numbers is sorted. If a number in the first list matches a 
number in the second 1 ist, then a sol ut ion ex ists and can be 
readily computed. (An unpublished algorithm which runs in time 
2n/2 and in space 2n/4 has been discovered by Schroeppel [33]). 
The proof by Karp that this problem is NP-complete is 
elegant and concise, but gives little hint as to whether the 
best known algorithms (mentioned above) are very close to the 
best possible algorithms or whether much better algorithms are 
possible. A more fundamental problem with the use of the 
theory of NP complete problems is that the nondeterministic po-
lynomial time Turing machine was reduced to the knapsack prob-
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 84 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
lem, but the actual complexity of a nondeterministic Turing 
machine has not been investigated closely enough for crypto­
graphic purposes: in cryptography, constant factors are VERY 
important. 
Rather than reduce a non-deterministic Turing machine to 
the knapsack problem, it is more appropriate to reduce Boolean 
circui ts to the knapsack problem. The rationale for this is 
simple: modern cryptographic systems are actually built out of 
Boolean circuits, i.e., "and," "or" and "not" gates. Crypto­
graphic systems built out of arbitrary combinations of -such 
logical building blocks have already been certified. As a 
consequence, reducing Boolean circuits to the knapsack problem 
directly will not only let us infer that the knapsack problem 
is NP-complete, it will also let us draw some inferences about 
a lower bound on n needed for a secure system. If it is possi­
ble to embed the problem of cryptanalyzing an already certified 
cryptographic system into a knapsack problem with n = 10, 000, 
then we can safely infer that there is no uniformly fast algo­
rithm which can solve knapsack problems with n = 10,000. 
Furthermore, the details of the actual reduction might give us 
some feel for the security of the knapsack problem. 
We first extend the problem of Boolean circuits by includ­
ing a multi-input multi-output "gate," which is intended to 
model the ROM-based S-boxes (substitution boxes) found in many 
modern cryptographic functions. We define a "(k,m)S-box" as a 
device with k Boolean inputs, and m Boolean outputs, where the 
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 85 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
function which determines the output from the input is arbi­
trary. As an example, figure 1 shows the truth table for a 
<3, 2)S-box. 
input output 
000 01 
001 11 
010 00 
011 10 
100 11 
101 11 
110 01 
111 00 
Figure 1 
The reader should notice that "and" and "or" gates are 
just (2,1 )S-boxes, and a "not" gate is just a (1,1 )S-box. 
These devices will therefore not be considered separately. 
In order to embed a modern cryptographic function into the 
knapsack problem, it is sufficient if we can embed arbitrary 
(k,m)S-boxes and their interconnections. This can be done 
easily, and the (3,2)S-box of figure 1 is shown in figure 2 em­
bedded in a knapsack problem with p = 13. The {ail and Shave 
been chosen so that exactly 8 .! vectors satisfy S = a * x and 
these 8 vectors specify the data of figure 1 under the follow-
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 86 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
ing interpretation. 
a 1 = 000--01---------1 
a2 = 001--11---------1 
a3 = 010--00---------1 
a4 = 011--10---------1 
a5 = 100--11---------1 
a6 = 101--11---------1 
a7 = 110--01---------1 
a8 = 111--00---------1 
input a9 = 100--00---------0 
input 2 a 10 = 010--00---------0 
input 3 a 11 = 001--00---------0 
output a 12 = 000--10---------0 
output 2 an = 000--01---------0 
sum s = 111--11---------1 
Figure 2 
The a. are shown in binary. and "-" is used for zero's 1 
which are not structurally important. but which are used only 
for spacing and to prevent carries between the three structural 
fields during addition of the ai • x9 • x10• and x11 represent 
the 3 input values to the S-box in complementary notation. If 
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 87 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
X9 is 0, then input 1 to the S-box is a 1. If x9 is a 1, then 
input 1 is a O. Similarly for x10 and x11 • The outputs are 
represented, again in complementary logic, by x12 and x13• The 
variables x1 through xa are not interpreted, they are part of 
the "internal workings" of this S-box representation. The fi­
nal "1" in a 1 through aa coupled with the requirement that S 
end in 1 guarantees that only one of x1 through xa can be a 1, 
all the rest must be o's. 
Perhaps the best explanation of this S-box is to work 
through an example of what happens when a given 3-bit input is 
specified as part of the ~ vector, and how it eventually pro­
duces the correct 2-bit output, also as part of the x vector. 
Figure 1 shows that on input 110 this S-box must produce 
output 01. Input 110 corresponds to x9 = 0, x10 = 0, and x11 = 
1, and output 01 corresponds t.o x12 = 1 and x13 = O. To force 
a7 , which corresponds to this input-output pair, to be included 
in the sum we set the first three bits of S to 111. Only one 
of x1 through x8 can be a 1, and the Xi selected must make the 
first 3 bits of the sum equal 111. Because carries are 
prevented between the three structural fields, the only possi­
ble choice is x7 = 1, and the rest of x1 through xa are equal 
to O. Now, x7 has a two-bit "output" section, which is the 
correct output (01) for the original input 110. By choosing 
the second field in S to be 11 we force x12 and x13 to assume 
the correct out put in complementary notation (10) in a manner 
analogous, but precisely reversed, from the manner in which the 
6/4/79 Chapter VIr Page 88 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
input selected x7 in the first place. 
The reader should note that a, through a8 in figure 2 are 
nearly exact copies of the S-box shown in figure " the only 
change being the addition of structurally unimportant D's, in­
dicated with "-". The last structural field is the constant, 
,. Each of a9 through a" has a single bit, surrounded by 0 
bits to form an "identity matrix" in the first structural 
field. The same is true for a'2 through a 13 in the second 
structural field. 
The knapsack problem in figure 2 models the (3,2)S-box in 
figure 1, but the details of how to interconnect two or more 
S-boxes into a single circuit must still be developed. For 
simplicity, we do this with an example using two identical S­
boxes. These can be represented by a single knapsack with n = 
26, and of twice the "wid th" as the original knapsacks with six 
structural fields. The first three fields are used only for a, 
to an to represent the first S-box. The second three fields 
are only used for a'4 through a26 to represent the second S-
box. By including a non-structural buffer of O's between 
fields three and four, any.! vector which solves the knapsack 
problem is consistent with the input/output relation of both 
S-boxes. Figure 3 shows the result of applying this procedure 
to generate two non-interconnected S-boxes identical to the S­
box of figures' and 2. 
To interconnect an output from one S-box to an input of 
the other S-box, we must force the associated xi and Xj to be 
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 89 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
equal to each other. To connect input 1 of the first S-box (a9 
in figure 3) to output 2 of the second S-box (a 26 in figure 3) 
we must force x9 to equal x26• This is done by making x9 
identical to x26 ' i.e., a26 is removed, and a new a9 is defined 
to be the sum of a9 and a26 • This is illustrated in figure 4. 
In general, to connect ai with a j' create a j = a j + ai' and 
delete the old 8 i • 
As an example, if we wished to have two <3,2)S-boxes ex­
actly like the one shown in figures 1 and 2, and to intercon­
nect the second output of one with the first input of the oth­
er, the result would look like figure 3. 
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 90 

input 1 
input 2 
input 3 
output 1 
output 2 
input 1 
input 2 
input 3 
output 1 
output 2 
sum 
6/4/79 
HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
a 1 = 000--01---------1 
a2 = 001--11---------1 
a3 = 010--00---------1 
a4 = 011--10---------1 
a5 = 100--11---------1 
a6 = 101--11---------1 
a7 = 110--01---------1 ,-----------------­
aa = 111--00---------1 :------------------
= 100--00---------0:-----------------­
= 010--00---------0:-----------------­
= 001--00---------0:------------------
a 12 = 000--10---------0:-----------------­
a 13 = 000--01---------0:------------------
= -----------------:-000--01---------1 
= -----------------'-001--11---------1 
= ----------------- -010--00---------1 
= ----------------- -011--10---------1 
= ----------------- -100--11---------1 
= ----------------- -101--11---------1 
= ----------------- -110--01---------1 
= ----------------- -111--00---------1 
a 22 = -----------------:-100--00---------0 
a 23 = -----------------:-010--00---------0 
a 24 = -----------------:-001--00---------0 
a 25 = -----------------:-000--10---------0 
a 26 = -----------------:-000--01---------0 
s = 111--11----------:-111--11---------1 
Figure 3 
Chapter VII Page 91 

input 1 
(and also 
output 2) 
input 2 
input 3 
output 1 
output 2 
input 1 
input 2 
input 3 
output 1 
sum 
6/4/79 
HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
a 1 = 000--01---------1 ------------------
a2 = 001--11---------1 ------------------
a3 = 010--00---------1 ------------------
a4 = 011--10---------1 ------------------
a5 = 100--11---------1 ------------------
a6 = 101--11---------1 ------------------
a7 = 110--01---------1 ------------------
a8 = 111--00---------1 ------------------
a9 = 100--00---------01------01---------­
a 10 = 010--00---------01-----------------­
a 11 = 001--00---------01------------------
a 12 = 000--10---------01-----------------­
a 13 = 000--01---------01------------------
a 14 = -----------------1-000--01---------1 
a 15 = -----------------1-001--11---------1 
a 16 = -----------------1-010--00---------1 
a 17 = -----------------1-011--10---------1 
a 18 = -----------------1-100--11---------1 
a 19 = -----------------1-101--11---------1 
a20 = -----------------1-110--01---------1 
a 21 = -----------------1-111--00---------1 
a 22 = -----------------1-100--00---------0 
a 23 = -----------------1-010--00---------0 
a 24 = -----------------1-001--00---------0 
a 25 = -----------------1-000--10---------0 
s = 111--11----------1-111--11---------1 
Figure 4 
Chapter VII Page 92 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
From figure 2 it is seen that a (k,m)S-box can be imbedded 
in a knapsack of size 2k+k+m. Outputs of one S-box will usual­
ly serve as inputs to other S-boxes, so the size of the knap­
sack which represents the interconnection of several S-boxes 
will be somewhat reduced from the sum of the sizes of the knap­
sacks representing the isolated S-boxes. 
To model cryptanalysis, note that in a known plaintext at­
tack, the key is the only free input to the circuit because the 
plaintext and ciphertext are fixed. (The known plaintext and 
ciphertext val ues can be obtained in the circuit by several 
methods, the easiest to explain is to use (1,1) S-boxes whose 
outputs are independent of their inputs.) Any .! vector which 
solves the resultant knapsack problem specifies the key in com­
plementary notation. Solving the knapsack problem is thus at 
least as hard as cryptanalysis of the system modeled by the 
Boolean circuitry. 
It is now possible to embed the problem of cryptanalysis 
of a modern encryption function into the knapsack directly. As 
an example we consider embedding the National Bureau of Stan­
dards Data Encryption Standard (DES) [24]. Although there is 
controversy about the security of the DES [5], [15], there is 
little doubt that an encryption function with an equivalent 
complexity could be made secure. Because the embedding we 
describe could be used to embed any encryption function of com­
parable complexity into the same size knapsack problem, the 
security of the DES is not an issue. 
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 93 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
We shall not consider the DES algorithm in any great de­
tail, except to estimate the number and type of S-boxes it con­
tains. It has 8 S-boxes, but requires 16 "rounds" or itera­
tions. That is, the DES is a clocked sequential circuit which 
requires 16 clock periods to compute a result. Because we can 
model only combinatorial circuits, and not sequential circuits, 
we must "unroll" the 16 rounds into a single combinatorial cir­
cui t 16 times longer than the circuitry required for a single 
round. We shall therefore compute how large a knapsack would 
be required to model a single round of the DES algorithm, and 
then multiply by 16. 
There are 8 (6,4)S-boxes involved in one round. In addi­
tion, there are 80 (2,1)S-boxes used for exclusive-oring. Of 
these, 48 are used to ex-or the key with the data, and 32 to 
ex-or the two halves of the data. The result is 8 • (2 6 + 6 + 
4) + 80 • (22 + 2 + 1) = 1152. To continue this for 16 rounds 
would require a knapsack with n = 18432. 
This estimate is conservative (too large) for two major 
reasons: First, the (2,1)S-boxes are used for exclusive-or 
gates, and exclusive-or gates can in fact be implemented in a 
knapsack of size n = 4, rather than n = 7. Second, this counts 
the input of one S-box which is also the output of a preceding 
S-box twice, again inflating the size of knapsack needed. If 
both of these factors are taken into account, the size of the 
knapsack required shrinks to n = 11,264. A few more improve­
ments can yield an n of about 10,000, but further improvements 
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 94 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
become more difficult at this point. We shall use the estimate 
n = 10,000 for the rest of the chapter. 
The interpretation given to this fact (that the DES can be 
imbedded in a knapsack of size n = 10,000) is quite straight­
forward: should an algorithm ex ist which can efficiently and 
uniformly solve 
DES --and all 
kna psack probl ems wi th n = 10,000, then the 
other encryption functions of similar 
complex i ty-- can be broken. Because the second statement is 
highly implausible, it is also highly implausible that any fast 
algori thm will be found for solving arbitrary knapsacks with 
n=10,000. 
The best known algorithm for solving the knapsack problem, 
coupled with the largest computer that can be imagined will be 
totally unable to solve knapsack problems with n = 1000. Even 
solution of knapsacks with n = 100 will be prohibitively expen­
sive with today's technology. 
Even if we accept n = 100 as a lower bound and n = 10,000 
as an upper bound on the size of knapsack problem necessary for 
a secure system, there is still a great deal of difference 
between the two. Fortunately, the upper bound seems very 
loose. A knapsack with n = 10,000 can actually embed any DES­
like encryption function with 16 • 8 = 128 (6,4)S-boxes, as 
well as some auxiliary logic. 
6/4/79 Chapter VIr Page 95 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
3. Double Sum is Easy to Solve 
An apparently effective method for reducing the value of n 
in the trapdoor knapsack (thus reducing the size of the public 
enciphering key a) is to allow the x. to take on values in the - 1 
range {0,',2, 
n = , 00 and B = 
it produces n = 
S = a 1 • x 1 
P} instead of the range {O,'}. Starting with 
(the usual case) and pushing this to its lim­
and E = 2'00_, with 
as the enciphering operation. Cryptanalysis is easily done by 
one division. The case n = 2 results in the double sum problem 
defined as: given integers S, a" a2, and P, find integers x, 
and x2 such that 
S = 
and 
We may assume that GCD(a1,a 2) = 
(7. , ) 
<7.2) 
since otherwise we can 
compute their GCD and divide a l' a2, and S by it to get a new 
problem with GCD(a"a 2) = 1. Then we can use the GCD algorithm 
to generate numbers y, and Y2 such that 
~ultiplying this equation by S gives 
We also have 
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 96 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
If we add multiples of the second equation to the first, 
we will still have an equation which satisfies (1.'), and be­
cause a, and a2 are relatively prime, it generates all possible 
solutions to (1.'). 
The solut ion must satisfy (1.'), and x, can be expressed 
in the form 
x, = k • a2 + r 
which gives 
S = a, • (k . a 2 + r) + a2 . x2 
<1.3) 
<1.4) 
Furthermore, the value of r can be computed from 
S • y, = x, = k • a2 + r mod 8 2 
or 
We must satisfy x, < P. We must also satisfy (1.') and 
(1.2), which implies x, < (S+')/a,. If x, > (S+')/a" then x2 
< 0, contradicting (1.2). If we let min = min(B, (S+')/a,) 
then these t.wo conditions reduce to x, < min. If we now select 
the largest allowable value of x" which will generate the 
smallest possible value of x2 , either it is a solution, or no 
solution exists. Using equation (1.3), we have 
k • a2 + r = x, < min 
or 
k • a2 < min - r 
or 
6/4/19 Chapter VIr Page 91 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
k < (min - r)/a 2 
so the largest allowable value of k will be 
k = (min - r - ')/8 2 
By truncating k to an integer, we obtain an exact solution 
to (7.3), and generate a value for x,. 
We now compute x2 , using the already obtained value of x" 
and determine if x2 < B. If x2 < P, we have computed the solu-
tion. Otherwise, no solution exists. 
To summarize: 
614/79 
, - a • y + a • Y2 -, 1 2 
compute r = S . y, mod a2 
compute min = min(b, (S+')/a,) 
compute k = (min - r - ')/a 2 
if k < 0, there is no solution 
truncate k 
compute x, = k • a2 + r 
compute x2 = (S - a, . x,) 1 a2 
if x2 < B then x is the solution 
otherwise no solution exists 
Chapter VII Page 98 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
4. What Value of n is Safe? 
It is clear that n = 2 is not safe. At the present time, 
al though we do not have a fully tested general algorithm for 
solving problems with n = 3, the author believes that this is 
also not sa fe. It is not clear whether n = 4 is safe, but 
small values of n, i.e., less than 10, should certainly be 
avoided at the present time. The author wishes to emphasize 
that estimates about a "safe" value of n have a large subjec-
tive component. The only method of establishing that a partic-
ular selection of parameters for the trapdoor knapsack can be 
relied on to provide a high level of security is to have a cer-
tificational attack on the system by individuals skilled in 
cryptanalysis and the particular problem area. Closer investi-
gation of the parameter n in the generalized knapsack seems 
justified before adopting a value for a particular system. 
(Certificational attacks should optimally include the creators 
of the system as one group. Those interested in initiating a 
serious certification of the trapdoor knapsack should contact 
the author.) 
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 99 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
5. How ~any Iterations of the Knapsack ~ Safe? 
Although even the single iteration knapsack has not yet 
been broken, it is the author's belief that at least two or 
three iterations of the (w,m) transform are needed to produce a 
margin of safety. The author would presently feel comfortable 
with ten iterations, although, as mentioned before, such "feel-
ings" should be viewed with caution. A full certificational 
attack by several expert.s would be preferable. 
Work by the author, by Martin Hellman, and by Ad i Shamir 
[unpublished] on the security of the single iteration trapdoor 
knapsack indicates that revealing any ~ of the parameters al-
lows solution of the problem. 
Taking the three cases in order, let us assume that in ad-
dition to the public vector~, our opponent learns a'in a sin-
gle iteration trapdoor knapsack. In this case, the following 
equations hold: 
a, • w = a, mod m 
a • w = a' mod m 2 2 
which in turn implies that 
a • w • a' = a • w • a' mod m , 2 2 , 
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 100 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
which together with GCD(w,m) = 1 implies 
a • a' - a • a' = k • m 1 2 2 1 
where k is an unknown integer. 
The essential point of this computation is that we can 
easily compute a multiple of m. By repeating this trick a few 
times with other numbers from the trapdoor knapsack, we can 
compute several different multiples of m. Taking their gcd 
will then give us m, which can in turn be used to recover w. 
If all we know is m, we can often recover w using a method 
devised by Shamir [42]. The basic equations behind this method 
are: 
a 1 • w = ai mod m 
a • 2 w = a2 mod m 
which impl ies 
mod m 
But we can compute a 1/a 2 mod m, which lets us rewrite the 
equation as: 
known 
6/4/79 
= a'/a' 1 2 
Chapter VIr Page 101 

BOW ~EClJPE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
or again as 
a' . known = a' mod m 2 1 
Furthermore, we know that ai and a2 are very small com­
pared with m. We therefore seek two numbers satisfying 
n1 • known = n2 mod m 
n1, n 2 are small 
and hope that these two numbers are ai and a2 CShamir [42J has 
the details). In many cases, our hopes will be satisfied. In 
particular, random function arguments imply that the sol ut ion 
will be unique if lengthCai) + lengthCa 2) < lengthCm). 
Although it is fairly easy to pick m small enough to foil this 
particular attack, it still indicates that m should be kept 
secret to maintain security. Although m might not satisfy the 
constraint given, it might still be possible to solve for a, 
and a2 using a generalized attack with the first three elements 
of the trapdoor knapsack. 
-1 . Finally, if w 1S known, this allows ready computation of 
-1 -1 -1 w • a 1, w • a2 and w • a ~ • 
..J 
These numbers are all equal 
to a multiple of m plus the small numbers Crelative to m) ai, 
a2 and 8 3, All we need do is compute a number which satisfies 
these conditions, and we have recovered m. 
Since there are three secret parameters in the single 
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 102 

HOW SECURE IS THE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
iteration trapdoor knapsack and making anyone public destroys 
security, conservatism dictates using the iterated trapdoor 
knapsack even though all three parameters are secret. Much as 
product ciphers can build a strong encryption function by 
iterating weak simple ciphers, so the iterated trapdoor knap­
sack builds strength by iterating the (w,m) transform. 
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 103 

HOW SECURE IS THE TFAPDOOR KNAPSACK? 
6. Conclusion 
The purpose of this chapter has been to give the reader a 
better idea of the security of particular trapdoor knapsack 
problems. It seems clear at this time that a trapdoor knapsack 
with n = 1000, with 100 iterations, and with each number in the 
a vector 5000 bits long should be totally secure. Reducing 
these numbers to more practical values is essential before the 
trapdoor knapsack is used in a real system. 
6/4/79 Chapter VII Page 104 

VIII. AN NP-COMPLETE CONVENTIONAL CIPHER 
1. Introduction 
It is possible to make a conventional cipher based on the 
knapsack problem which is essentially NP-complete. Those 
knowledgeable about the theory of NP-completeness might object 
to the use of the term "tIP-complete" in these circumstances, so 
the qualification "essentially" has been added. The precise 
distinctions are more definitional than substantive and are ex­
plained below. 
It appears that the proof technique used here can be gen­
eralized to other ciphers. 
6/4179 Chapter VIII Page 105 

AN NP-COMPLETF CONVENTIONAL CIPHER 
2. The Basic Idea 
It is possible to create a one way function based on the 
knapsack problem by defining ~ to be the input to the function, 
S to be the output from the function, and ~ = a" a2, ••• an as 
the function specification. This allows definition of the 
function by 
F( x) = s = x * a 
(where * denotes dot product). 
We can define a stream cipher [4J based on this: 
and the deciphering process is just: 
where ~ represents modulo two addition (exclusive or), ~ is de­
fined to be the key and Pt , Ct , and F(~)t are all one bit quan­
tities. Ct is the single bit of ciphertext transmitted at time 
t; Pt is the single bit of plaintext generated by A at time t; 
and F(~)t is the single bit of S needed to encrypt Pt at time 
t. 
6/4/79 Chapter VIII Page '06 

AN NP-COMPLETE CONVENTIONAL CIPHER 
The advantage of this definition is that the key, .!' is 
the argument of a one way function. and should therefore be 
difficult to determine. 
To be useful, it must be possible to send indefinite 
amounts of plaintext: P must be infinite. This implies S must 
be infinite. This in turn implies that the a. must be i.nfin-1 
ite. (Notice that it does not imply.! is infinite.) Infinite 
a. 's are trivial: they need only be generated as indefinite 1 
streams, least significant bit first. For each index i in 
{ 1 ,2, n}, A will transmit a. l' a. 2' 1. 1, a. t 1, 
time t, A will transmit n + 1 bits: a 1,t, a2 ,t, a 3,t 
and Ct' 
At 
• •• an t' , 
A uses key.! to select a subset of the a i . A adds up the 
subset of the a. to compute the sum, S. B knows .!. hence B can 
1 
also compute S. (Everyone knows ~. which is public knowledge.) 
Because the a. are infinite in length, S will also be in-1 
finite in length. As the a i are transmitted, least significant 
bit first, it will become possible for B to compute S, also 
least significant bit first. That is, S will be a bit stream, 
computable from the n bit streams a l' a 2, •.• an' and the key 
x. 
6/4/79 Chapter VIII Page 101 

AN NP-COMPLETE CONVENTIONAL CIPHER 
This is illustrated in figure 1. 
time t: 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 
a 1 = 0 o 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 
a2 = 1 0 1 0 1 001 0 
a 3 = 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 
an = •••• 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 
S = 
P = 
o 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 
1 o 0 0 0 
o 0 
000 
C = 000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Figure 1 
E cannot learn.! without solving the knapsack problem but 
it seems conceivable that E might be able to deduce some por­
tion of S without ever knowing.!. In the following paragraphs, 
this is shown to be impossible. 
If we assume E attacks this cipher under a known plaintext 
attack, then E knows St for t < the present time. This is be­
cause 
6/4/79 Chapter VIrI Page 108 

AN NP-COMPLETE CONVENTIONAL CIPHER 
In spite of this, E will not be able to compute St for any t > 
the present time, even given the full values of the ai (which 
extend indefinitely into the future) without also solving for 
.!' and thus solving the knapsack problem. This can be proven 
by contradiction. 
Assume E can predict St for some t > the present time and 
for any value of the a .• To determine if x. is a 0 or a 1, E 1 1 
makes two predictions. E first predicts St' and then makes 
another prediction St after complementing the single bit, ai,t. 
If St i St' then xi must be a 1, otherwise it must be a O. 
This proves that solving this cipher for even one bit of 
unknown plaintext allows E to recover one of the xi. Repeating 
this n times allows recovery of the x vector, thus solving the 
knapsack problem. 
Why is this cipher only "essentially" NP-complete? In 
essence, the question is the distinction between the following 
two problems: 
Find .!' given that we know it exists. 
Determine whether or not x exists. 
The latter is the knapsack problem, and is NP-complete. 
The former is not quite the knapsack problem, and I have been 
calling it "essentially" NP-complete. 
From a cryptographer's point of view there is not much 
difference between these two problems. If an algorithm exists 
6/4/79 Chapter VIII Page 109 

AN NP-COMPLETE CONVENTIONAL CIPHER 
that will find x in time Ten), then we can determine whether or 
not ~ exists by running the algorithm for time Ten) and noting 
whether it produces the correct ~ at the end of that time. If 
it does produce the correct ~, then x ex ists. If it did not 
find any ~ in that time, no ~ exists. 
It can be argued that this "proof" is inadequate because 
we have not taken into account the time required to compute T 
itself. It is not the purpose of this chapter to provide air­
tight theoretical definitions, simply to point out that such 
theoretical considerations ex ist, but do not appear to be im­
portant for cryptographic applications. 
6/4/79 Chapter VIII Page 110 

AN NP-COMPLETE CONVENTIONAL CIPHER 
3. Conclusion 
A conventional cipher which is essentially NP-complete was 
given. This cipher, based on the knapsack problem, is the 
first with this property known to the author. 
6/4/79 Chapter VIII Page 111 

IX. PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
1. Introduction 
This chapter examines the ways in which public key systems 
can be used and the special strengths they offer, by giving a 
series of example protocols. Beyond providing recipes for 
solving some specific problems, these examples are intended to 
improve the reader's ability to judge other protocols and, when 
faced with new problems, to synthesize new protocols. 
The reader is assumed to be famil iar with the general 
ideas behind public key cryptosystems, as described in [6 J. 
[4]. 
For many of the following examples, we shall need the ser­
vices of two communicants, called A and P, and an opponent E. 
A and E will attempt to send secret messages and sign con­
tracts, while E will attempt to discover the keys, learn the 
secrets, and forge contracts. Sometimes, A will attempt to 
evade a contract he signed with B, or B will attempt to forge 
A's signature to a new contract. 
A and B will need to apply one way functions to various 
arguments of various sizes, so we define the one way function F 
with the properties that: 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 112 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
1) F can be applied to any argument of any size. F ap­
plied to more than one argument is defined to be the 
same as F applied to the concatenation of the argu­
ments. 
2) F will produce an output of fixed size (perhaps 100 
bits) 
3) Given F and x it is easy to compute F(x). 
4) Given F and F(x) it must be impossible to determine 
x. 
5) Given F and x, it must be impossible to determine x' 
i x such that F(x) = F(x'). 
For a more complete discussion of one way functions, see [7], 
[38], [19] and chapter II. 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 113 

<. 
PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
2. Centralized Key Distribution 
Centralized key distribution using conventional encryption 
functions was the only reasonable method of handling key dis-
tribution in a multi-user environment before the discovery of 
public key distribution methods. Only conventional encryption 
functions need be used, which presently offers a performance 
advantage. (The currently known publ ic key systems are less 
efficient than conventional cryptographic systems. Whether or 
not this will continue is not now known. Discovery of new pub-
lic key systems seems almost inevitable, and discovery of more 
efficient ones probable.) 
In centralized key distribution, A, B, and all other sys-
tem users somehow deposit a conventional cryptographic key with 
a central key distribution center. Call X I S key kx, and let 
C( key ,plaintext) be the ciphertext resulting from the conven-
tiona 1 encryption function. If A wishes to communicate with B, 
then A picks a random key k' and computes y = C(kA,<k' ,"send 
this key to B"» and sends it to the center along with his 
-1 name. The center computes C (kA,y) = <k' ,"send this key to 
B"> and then computes z = C(kp,<k' ,"this key is from A"» and 
-1 sends this to B. B computes C (kE, z) = <k', "this key is from 
A"> and uses k' in further encrypted communications with A. 
This protocol is simple and requires only conventional en-
cryption functions. Needham and Schroeder [25] and Popek and 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 114 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
Kline (27] have defended its use. 
The major vulnerabil ity of this protocol is to both cen­
tralized loss of security and centralized loss of function. 
All of the eggs are in a central basket. Theft of the central 
keys, or bribery of personnel at the central site will comprom-
ise all users of the system. Simil arly, destruction of the 
central keys destroys the key distribution mechanism for all 
users. In addition, even though A and B can communicate with 
each other, if either of t.hem is unable to communicate with the 
key distribution center they will not be able to establish a 
secure key. In contrast, public key distribution will be seen 
to continue to function when only two users are left, and only 
the single communication path between them is functional. Pub­
lic key systems are much more robust. 
The security and reliability of centralized key distribu­
tion can be increased by using two or more centers, each with 
its own keys [6]. Destruction or compromise of a single center 
will not affect the other center. If users always use several 
keys --one from each center-- both to encrypt and decrypt mes­
sages, then compromise of a single key (or a single center) has 
no effect on user security. Only if all centers are comprom-
ised is the users' security compromised. In general, any 
number of centers can be established; although practical con­
siderations will usually dictate a small number, e.g., two to 
five. 
A system with multiple centers forces each user to estab-
6/4179 Chapter IX Page 115 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
1ish a key with each center. This increases cost, but also in-
creases security. There are two ways of modeling this increase 
in security. In the first, we argue that the probability of 
compromising one center is p, so the probability of compromis-
k ing k centers is p • If P is reasonably small, this model 
predicts a rapid and dramatic increase in security as the 
number of centers is increased. In the second model we argue 
that if the cost of compromising one center is d dollars, then 
the cost of compromising k centers is only k'd dollars. This 
model predicts only a small increase in security as new centers 
are added. The truth probably lies somewhere in between. 
The centralized key distribution protocol does not fully 
solve the key distribution problem. Some sort of key distribu-
tion method must be used between each user X and the center to 
establish each kX' This problem is nontrivial because no elec-
tronic communications can be used for the transmission of kX' 
and inexpensive physical methods, e.g., registered mail, offer 
only moderate security. The use of couriers is reasonably 
secure, although more expensive. Some implementations of pub-
1ic key distribution protocols do not require a secure channel 
for transmitting individual keys. rather they only require au-
thentication of one (system) key or the root node in a tree au-
thentication system (see sections 5 and 6). 
Centralized key distribution is more vulnerable to both 
loss of security and loss of function than well designed public 
key distribution systems. At the present time, it does provide 
6/4179 Chapter IX Page 116 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
improved performance because conventional encryption functions 
are more efficient (faster or require less memory) than public 
key functions. In addition, certified conventional encryption 
functions are widely available, but this is not true of public 
key systems. 
change. 
6/4/19 
The latter two situations can be expect.ed to 
Chapter IX Page 117 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
3. Simple Public Key Distribution 
This is the most basic application of public key systems 
[6], [18], [20], [21], [31]. Its purpose is to allow A and B 
to agree on a common key k without any prior secret arrange­
ments, even though E overhears all messages. While public key 
distribution systems which are not based on public key cryp­
tosystems exist [6], [20], we describe the protocol in terms of 
a public key cryptosystem. A randomly computes enciphering and 
deciphering keys EA and DA, and sends FA to F (and inadvertent­
ly E). B picks a random key, k, and transmits EA(k) to A (and 
E). A computes DACEACk)) = k. A then discards both EA and DA, 
and B discards EA. The key in future communications is k. It 
is used to encrypt all further messages using a conventional 
encryption function. Once A and B have finished talking, they 
both discard k. If they later resume the conversation the pro­
cess is repeated to agree on a new key k' . 
This protocol is very simple, and has a great deal to 
recommend it. First, no keys and no secret materials exist be­
fore A and B start communicating, and nothing is retained after 
they have finished. It is impossible for E to compromise any 
keys either before the conversation takes place, or after it is 
over, for the keys exist only during the conversation. Furth­
ermore, if E is passive and does not actively interfere with 
the messages being sent, then E will understand nothing and the 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 118 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
conversation will be secure. 
The disadvantage of this protocol is that E might actively 
interfere with the exchange of keys. Worse yet, if E has con­
trol of the channel, he can force a known k on both A and E. 
All further messages encrypted with k can then be read by E. 
All E need do is pretend to E that he is A, and pretend to A 
that he is B. To do this, E blocks transmission of EA to E, 
and substitutes EE. B will compute EE(k) and transmit it to A. 
E will block this transmission, learn k by computing DE(EE(k)) 
= k and then send FA(k) to A. A will compute DA(EA(k)) = k as 
usual. E knows k, and both A and B are none the wiser. 
In spite of this disadvantage, the protocol is very useful 
for two reasons. Passive eavesdropping, by itself, is a major 
problem. In "The Codebreakers," the authori tati ve 1164 page 
history of cryptography by David Kahn [12], the threat was from 
passive eavesdropping in the vast majority of cases. Use of a 
simple public key distribution protocol provides protection 
from this attack, and also provides a positive guarantee 
against lost or stolen codebooks, bribery or blackmail of code­
clerks, and "practical cryptanalysis" by theft of keys. For 
example, the major vulnerability of the U.S. telephone network 
today is from technically sophisticated passive eavesdropping. 
The Russians use their embassies and consulates in the U.S. to 
house microwave receivers which listen to conversations carried 
between telephone company microwave towers [36], [3]. They are 
not jamming or altering phone calls; just listening. 
6/4179 Chapter IX Page 119 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
Secondly, if the reader has a preference for any other key 
distribution protocol which does not provide these blanket 
guarantees against lost or stolen keys, then it is simple to 
combine the readers preferred key distribution protocol with 
the simple public key distribution protocol to obtain a hybrid 
which offers the strengths of both. The problem of carelessly 
lost keys, poor key security, theft of keys, and bribery of 
clerks or janitors who have access to the key are not minor, as 
history shows [12 J. A blanket guarantee against all passive 
attacks is extremely comforting. 
When guarantees of authenticity are also required, the 
simple public key distribution protocol can be used together 
with other methods because of the remarkably strong guarantees 
it provides against the passive eavesdropper. Even though a 
"better" method is being used to provide authenticity, its 
security might have been compromised by theft of keys, in which 
case it is impossible to guarantee authenticity, but the simple 
key distribution protocol at least still guarantees secrecy. 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 120 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
4. Authenticated Public Key Distribution 
There is a now classic protocol [6] which provides secure 
and authenticated communications between A and B: A and B gen­
erate FA and EB and make them public, while keeping DA and DB 
secret. The publ ic enciphering keys of all users are entered 
in a public file, allowing easy and authenticated access to EX 
for any user, X. EX can be authenticated upon entry in the 
file by X making a personal appearance. 
If A and B wish to agree on a common key k, then 
1) A looks up EB in the public file. 
2) A generates k1 randomly and transmits Ep(k 1) to P. 
3) B looks up EA in the public file. 
4) B generates k2 randomly and transmits EA(k2) to A. 
5) A computes k = (k 1,k 2>, where k2 = DA (EA (k2». 
6) B computes k = (k 1,k 2>, where k1 = DB(EB(k 1» . 
At the end of this protocol, A and R have agreed on a com­
mon key, k, which is both secret and authenticated. A is as­
sured he is talking to B, for only B can decipher EB(k 1), while 
B is assured he is talking to A because only A can decipher 
EA(k2 ). 
This protocol suffers from two weaknesses. First, entries 
in the public file might be altered. F. might create a false 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 121 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
entry in A's public file which read: 
B •••••••••••• EE 
This false entry would let E pretend to A that he was P., to the 
disadvantage of both A and P. 
False entries in the public file can be dealt with both by 
good physical security, or by using new protocols (see sections 
5 and 6) for authenticating the entries in the public file. 
Second, secret deciphering keys can be lost. If E should 
learn DB' then E could masquerade as P to A without altering 
the public file. Unless additional precautions are taken, A 
and B might never find out about the loss. Note that if DB is 
compromised but DA is still secure, then A can no longer be 
sure he is talking to B, but he can be sure he is talking 
secretly to some (unauthenticated) person claiming to be B. 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 122 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
5. Public Key Distribution with Certificates 
Kohnfelder [14] suggested that entries in the public file 
can be authenticated by having a Central Authority (CA) sign 
them with DCA. He called such signed entries certificates. 
The certificate for A, called CA, is computed by the central 
authority as: 
while similarly CB is computed as: 
The protocol with certificates is the same as the authen-
ticated protocol, except steps 1 and 3, which involve looking 
up EA and Ep ' are replaced by the steps of obtaining and check­
ing the certificates for A and B. The modified protocol is: 
1) A obtains P's certificate (either from a public file, 
or by requesting it from B) and confirms it by com-
puting 
ECA(CB) = "user P",E p 
2) A generates k1 randomly and transmits EB(k 1) to B. 
3) B obtains A's certificate and confirms it by comput-
ing 
E (C) = "user A" E CA A ' A 
4) P generates k2 randomly and transmits EA(k 2) to A. 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 123 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
5) A computes k = <k1,k 2>, where k2 = DA(EA(k2)). 
6) P computes k = <k1,k 2>, where k1 = DB(Ep.(k1)). 
This protocol assures A and P that each has the other's 
public enciphering key, and not the public enciphering key of 
some imposter. 
The security of this protocol rests on the assumptions 
that DA, DB' and DCA have not been compromised, that A and B 
have correct copies of ECA ' and that the central authority has 
not issued a bad certificate, either deliberately because it 
was untrustworthy, or accidentally because it was t.ricked. 
ECA can be published in newspapers and magazines, and sent 
over all available communication channels. 
correct reception would be very difficult. 
Blocking its 
Securi ty can be improved by having several "Central Au-
thorities," each with its own secret deciphering key. Each 
user would be given a certificate from each authority, all au­
thenticating the same public enciphering key. Compromise of a 
single authority will no longer result in compromise of the 
system. 
If only a single "Central Authority" exists, and DCA is 
compromised, then it is no longer possible to authenticate the 
users of the system and their publ ic enciphering keys. The 
certificates are now worthless because the (unauthorized) per­
son who has learned DCA can produce false certificates at will. 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 124 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
This problem can be greatly reduced by destroying DCA 
after certificates for all users have been created. If DCA no 
longer exists, it cannot be compromised. The central authority 
would create ECA and DCA' sign all the certi ficates, then im­
mediately destroy DCA. DCA would be vulnerable only during the 
short time that it was being used to sign certificates. 
While it is now impossible for anyone to falsely add new 
users to the system by creating false certificates, it is also 
impossible to add legitimate users to the system as well. This 
is unacceptable. The simplest way of dealing with this problem 
is for the central authority to issue new certificates with a 
new (different) secret deciphering key. For example, each 
month the central authority could create new certificates for 
that month's new users using a newly created DCA. The new ECA 
would be published, and the new users would be accepted. The 
new DCA would be destroyed after use. 
Al though this method sharply reduces the risk that DCA 
might be compromised, it still leaves open the possibility that 
the central authority might issue bad certificates either by 
intent, or because of some tr ickery during the short period 
when new certificates are actually being signed. These possi­
bilities can be effectively eliminated by the next protocol. 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 125 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
6. Public Key Distribution with Tree Authentication 
Key distribution with certificates was vulnerable to the 
criticism that DCA can be compromised, resulting in system wide 
loss of authentication (although not necessarily loss of secre­
cy). This problem can be solved by using tree authentication, 
as described in Chapter V. 
Again, this protocol attempts to authenticate entries in 
the public file. However, instead of signing each entry in the 
public file, this protocol applies a one way hash function, H, 
to the entire public file. Even though H is applied to the en­
tire public file, the output of H is only 100 or 200 bits long. 
The (small) output of H will be called the root, R, of the pub­
lic file. If all users of the system know R, then all users 
can authenticate the correctness of the (whole) public file by 
computing R = H(public file). Any attempt to introduce changes 
into the public file will imply with probability near one that 
R ~ H(altered public file), an easily detected fact. 
This method effectively eliminates the possibility of 
compromising DCA because no secret deciphering key exists. 
Anyone can compute R = H(public file), and so confirm that the 
copy of the public file that they have is correct. R, (like 
ECA in the protocol of section 5) can be widely distributed. 
Because correct copies of the public file are widely dis­
tributed, it is very easy for a user of the system to discover 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 126 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
that someone else is attempting to masquerade as him. If E has 
put the false entry 
A ••••••••••••• EE 
into the public file, then A will discover this fact when he 
looks at hi s own entry. A cannot be given a spec ially "pr int­
ed" public file with his entry correct because then H(public 
file) would not equal R. If new public files are issued before 
they go into use, then all users of the system will have time 
to assure that they have been correctly entered into the public 
file. Because the public file will be subjected to the harsh 
glare of public scrutiny, and because making alterations in the 
public file is effectively impossible, a high degree of as­
surance that the public file is correct can be attained. 
While this concept is very comforting, forcing each user 
to keep a complete copy of the public file might not be practi­
cal. Fortunately , it is possible to selectively authenticate 
individual entries in the public file, without having to know 
the whole public file. This is done by using "tree authentica­
tion," described in chapter V. 
The essence of tree authentication is to authenticate the 
entire public file by "divide and conquer." If we define Y = 
public file = Y 1 ' Y2 ' ... y n' ( so the ith entry in the public 
file is denoted Yi , and B's entry is YB); we can define 
H(public file) = H(Y) as: 
H(Y) = F( H(first half of r), H(second half of y) 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 127 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
Where F is a one way function defined in section 1. 
If A wishes to confirm B's public enciphering key, then A 
need only know the first half of the public file, (which is 
where YB appears) and H(second half of public file) which is 
only 100 bits long. A can compute H(public file) knowing only 
this information, and yet A only knows half the entries in the 
public file. 
In a similar fashion, A does not really need to know all 
of the first half of the public file, for 
H(first half of public file) = 
F( H(first quarter of public file), 
H(second quarter of public file) ) 
All A needs to know is the first quarter of the public file 
(which has YB), and H(second quarter of public file). 
By applying this concept recursively, A can confirm Yp in 
the public file knowing only R, log2 n intermediate H values, 
and YB itself. The information needed to authenticate YB, 
given that R has already been authenticated, lies along the 
path from R to YE• This information will be called the authen­
tication path. 
These definitions are illustrated in figure 1, which shows 
the authentication path for Y5• 
This brief sketch of tree authentication should serve to 
convey the idea. For a more detailed discussion the reader is 
6/4/19 Chapter IX Page 128 

FIG 1 i 
CIRCLED ENTRIES SHOW THE AUTHE1~TICATION PATH FOR YSI 
PAGE 128B 
'0 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
referred to chapter V. 
Using tree authentication, user A has an authentication 
path which can be used to authenticate user A I s publ ic enci­
phering key, provided that R has already been authenticated. 
An "authentication path" is a new form of certificate, with ECA 
replaced by R. 
The advantage of tree authentication over certificates is 
that no secret deciphering key DCA exists, so DCA cannot be 
compromised. It is impossible to create false certificates 
after R is computed. 
With tree authentication, it is impossible to have a cen­
tralized loss of authentication, but it is also impossible to 
add new users without issuing a new tree. The tree, once com­
puted, is fixed and unchanging. Therefore, the public file 
(which is just the leaves of the tree) is also fixed and un­
changing. For this reason, it can be carefully and publ icly 
checked for errors. For the same reason, it is impossible to 
update. A new tree must be issued periodically. 
In summary: If tree authentication is used to authenticate 
each entry in the public file, the protocol for public key dis­
tribution proceeds as follows: 
1) A obtains B's entry in the public file and B's authen­
tication path (either from B or from some convenient 
storage device) and confirms their correctness. 
2) A generates k1 randomly and transmits EB(k 1) to B. 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 129 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEM~ 
3) B obtains A's entry in the public file and A's authen-
tication path and confirms their correctness. 
4) B generates k2 randomly and transmits EA(k2) to A. 
5) A computes k = <k,.k 2>· where k2 = DA(EA(k2»· 
6) B computes k = <k,.k 2>· where k, = DB(EB(k,». 
This protocol can only be compromised if: DA or DB is 
compromised. or if R is not correctly known by A or B. or if 
there is a false and misleading entry in the public file. The 
latter two are easily detectable. If either A or B has the 
wrong R. they will be unable to complete the protocol with any 
other legitimate user who has the correct R. Complete failure 
of the protocol is easily detected. and will lead to some sort 
of corrective action. Implicitly. the correct value of R is 
agreed on by A and B every time each confirms the correctness 
of the other's authentication path. The correct value of R is 
therefore being constantly transmitted between pairs of users 
as they establish keys. This is in addition to other means of 
confirming R. such as publication. 
Because the public file is both open t.o public scrutiny 
and unalterable. false or misleading entries can be rapidly 
detected. In practice. a few users concerned with correctness 
can verify that the public file satisfies some simple global 
properties. i.e •• each user name appears once and only once in 
the entire public file; individual users can then verify that 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page '30 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
their own entry is correct, and need not bother examining the 
rest of the public file. 
The only practical method of compromising either A's or 
B's security is to compromise DA or DB. A user's security is 
thus dependent on himself and no one else. 
It is still possible for A to claim to be the non-existent 
C. Because C does not exist, he will never object that A is 
masquerading as him. A can effectively establish pseudonyms. 
If it is essential to establish a one to one correspondence 
between named users of the system and real people, some form of 
physical authentication is necessary. In many applications 
there 1s no need to know that user C is really a pseudonym for 
. user A. As long as C pays his bills, his real identity is ir­
relevant. The identifier "C" is relative, not absolute, and 
serves simply to tie together a sequence of transactions. 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 131 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
7. Digital Signatures 
Diffie and Hellman [6 J suggested the use of publ ic key 
cryptosystems to provide digital signatures, and Rivest, Shamir 
and Adleman [31 J have suggested an attractive implementation. 
Signature techniques based on methods other than public key 
cryptosystems have been suggested by Lamport and Diffie [6 J, 
Rabin [29J, and Merkle [19J. 
Digital signatures, whether based on conventional encryp­
tion functions, on public key cryptosystems, on probabilistic 
computations, or on other techniques, share several important 
properties in common. These common properties are best illus­
trated by explaining the general concept of a digital signa­
ture. 
The now classic example of a digital signature is that of 
a person A who wishes to place a purchase order with his stock 
broker P. A has just received word that the stock will go up 
in value, and wishes to purchase it within a few hours. A, on 
the Riviera, cannot send a written order to B in New York in 
time. All that A can quickly send to P is information, i.e., a 
sequence of bits, but 8 is concerned that A may later disclaim 
the order. A must somehow generate a sequence of bits (a digi­
tal signature) which will convince B (and if need be, a judge) 
that A authorized the order. It must be easy for P to validate 
the digital signature, but impossible for him (or anyone other 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 132 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
than A) to generate it (to prevent charges that B was dabbling 
in the market illegally with A's money). 
The signature must be a function of both the message and 
the signer, for it must convince R (and a judge) that the par­
ticular person, A, has signed the particular message, m. There 
is basically one situation which the digital signature must 
resolve: B claims that A signed a message, and A claims he did 
not. If in fact A signed the message, then he is guil ty of 
disavowal; but if he did not, B is guilty of forgery. To sum­
marize: a digital signature should be message dependent, signer 
dependent, easy for the sender to generate, easy for the user 
to validate, but impossible to forge or disavow. 
There are digital signature schemes which do not involve 
public key cryptosystems, and some which involve elaborate in­
teractions between A and P, as well as the clever use of random 
information [29J, but it will be convenient notationally to let 
A sign message m by computing the signature, DA(m). Checking a 
signature will then be done by checking that m = EA(DA(m)). If 
EA(DA(m)) produces an illegible message (random bits) then the 
signature is rej ected as inval id. This notation is somewhat 
misleading because the actual method of generating and validat­
ing signatures can be very different from this model. This no­
tation is retained because it is widely known and because we 
will not discuss the differences among different digital signa-
ture methods, only their common properties. The conclusions 
reached in the following paragraphs apply to both public key 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 133 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
andnon-pub11c key based signature systems. 
6/4/19 Chapt'er IX Page 134 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTO~YSTEMS 
8. ! Simple Digital Signature Protocol 
The first digital signature protocol, proposed in [6], 
proceeded as follows: 
A and B agree on message m that A is to sign. A computes 
DA(m) (where DA is known only to A) and transmits it to P. B 
looks up EA in the public file. B can now check DA(m) by com­
puting EA (D A (m» and confirming that it equals m. B retains 
DA(m) as proof that A signed message m. 
If A later denies having signed message m, P can give 
DA(m) to a judge, who can easily compute EA(DA(m» = m, proving 
that A signed the message. 
This protocol has been criticized [32J, [27J on two 
grounds. 
First, the public file might have been tampered with. 
When B looks up EA in the public file, E might have altered the 
public file so that EE appears next to A's name. B will then 
"check" a signature with the wrong public enciphering key, mak­
ing B's "check" useless. ~ethods of authenticating the public 
file, discussed previously under key distribution protocols, 
minimize this problem. 
A second criticism, raised by Saltzer [32J and by Popek 
and Kline [27J, is that A can disavow the signed message, ex­
plaining "E has stolen DA, and has posted it in a public place. 
Clearly, anyone could have computed DA (m), so it proves noth­
ing." In fact, E did not steal anything; A posted DA in a pub-
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 135 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
lic place himself. 
signed. 
A can now disavow any message he ever 
Although this simple protocol is flawed, it should be com­
pared with current practice. At the moment, it is possible to 
order goods and services simply by giving a valid credit card 
number and nothing else. 
Further, A cannot disavow a signed message without gen-
erating suspicion. Repeated disavowals would be especially 
questioned. In an actual system, the incidence of disavowal 
will be low, which implies that careful investigation of those 
cases that do occur is possible. 
A simple solution to the disavowal problem is to adopt 
very good physical security for DA, and then refuse to accept 
A's claim that DA was compromised. Several factors combine to 
allow extraordinarily good physical security for DA• First, 
destruction of DA is merely inconvenient. A can always gen­
erate a new D'A and E'A. If theft of DA is imminent, A can 
destroy DA• Contracts signed with DA are still val id and EA 
still exists to authenticate them, even though DA has been des­
troyed. 
Second, only a single copy of DA need exist. Because des­
truction of DA is only inconvenient, backup copies of DA need 
not be kept. DA could be kept in a small strong box or on a 
single chip of silicon in a "signet ring" worn by A. Attempts 
to open the ring would cause destruction of DA• 
To summarize, the simple signature protocol is a great im-
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 136 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
provement over the current situation (no signature protocol), 
but it suffers from three problems: the public file that B 
checks must be accurate; A might disavow the resulting signa­
ture, explaining (falsely) that DA was stolen; and DA might ac­
tually be stolen by E who can then impersonate A. 
Authenticating the entries in the public file was con­
sidered under public key distribution protocols. 
Physical security of DA is A's responsibility. 
Disavowal is considered further in section 9. 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 137 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
9. Dealing with Disavowal 
If it is necessary to assume that DA can be compromised, 
then several protocols which reduce or mitigate the problem of 
disavowal suggest themselves. 
One solution is to have a witness testify to the time of 
the order only. Essentially, this reduces the role of the wit­
ness to that of a reliable time stamp. As mentioned before, if 
a message was signed prior to the time the key was compromised, 
then it must be val id • The wi tness signs a statement of the 
format "The time is now 12:04:23 on the 17th of March, 1979, 
and I have been presented with the following bit pattern 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx." If the witness' signature is still 
valid, and the witness signed the statement prior to the time 
DA was compromised, then the witnessed signature must also be 
valid. The witness need not physically authenticate A's agree­
ment; the wi tness does not care where the bit pat tern comes 
from nor what it means. 
If A claims he lost DA yesterday, then a message signed 
three months ago and "time stamped" by a witness two months ago 
is still valid. Only A's recently signed messages are open to 
question. 
A can still disavow a message signed at 2:00 explaining 
that his signature was compromised at 1: 00 but that he d idn' t 
notice this fact until 3: 00. If A's argument that DA was 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 138 
! 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
compromised and he failed to notice this for two hours is ac­
cepted, then he can disavow a signed message. Since the "bene­
fit" of most disavowals (e.g. stock orders) is not realized un­
til a significant time after the message is sent, time stamping 
is more valuable than might first appear. 
If there is a witness who is trusted not to disavow his 
signature, why not rely on him entirely, and eliminate A's di-
gital signature completely? The witness' testimony that A 
agreed to the contract would BE the "signature." If the witness 
is fully trusted, he need not even use digital signatures. He 
could simply remember the contracts. In the event of dispute, 
the witness would simply look up the appropriate contract, and 
all parties to the dispute would abide by that version. (Popek 
and Kline [27] advocate the use of such methods.) 
The primary disadvantage to this al ternative is that A 
loses control over his signing ability. The witness can now 
forge A's "signature" on a contract, either because the witness 
is mal icious, or because the witness made a mistake. If the 
witness' word is accepted as binding, A would have no recourse. 
Even though A swore that he had not seen the contract, had not 
agreed to the contract, and would never have agreed to the con­
tract, if the "signature" provided by the witness is to be use­
ful, A's pleas must be ignored. In contrast, if the witness 
only countersigns A's digital signature, then A is guaranteed 
that forgery is impossible so long as DA is secure. 
In addition, if A is in San Francisco, B is in New York, 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 139 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
and the witness is in Philadelphia, then some form of secure 
communications between the various sites is required. 
adds additional points of vulnerability to the system. 
This 
Finally, if the witness is responsible for many contracts 
worth many millions of dollars, it is an attractive target for 
system penetrators and vandals. By contrast, digital signa­
tures are distributed; there is no central site whose destruc­
tion or compromise would invalidate all signatures for all 
users. 
Disavowal is an inherent property of any signature tech­
nique, including written signatures, stamps, seals, etc. For 
any signature system, the signer can try to disavow his signa-
. ture by creating a fanciful but not impossible scenario which 
would have allowed someone else to have forged the signature. 
The essential question is the plausibility of these scenarios. 
As their plausibility is reduced, the risk of disavowal is also 
reduced. To be practical, a signature system must reduce the 
risk of disavowal to a level which is tolerable for the partic­
ular application. Complete elimination of all risk does not 
appear to be attainable in practice. 
6/4179 Chapter IX Page 140 

PROTOCOLS FOR PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
10. Conclusions 
The primary purpose of this chapter has been to increase 
the readers insight into the strengths and weaknesses not only 
of the particular protocols described, but also of cryptograph­
ic protocols in general. Certainly, these are not the only 
cryptographic protocols possible. However, these protocols are 
valuable tools to the system designer: they illustrate what 
can be achieved and provide feasible solutions to some problems 
of recurring interest. 
6/4/79 Chapter IX Page 141 

X. ON THE SECURITY OF ~ULTIPLE ENCRYPTION 
Diffie and Hellman [5 J have argued that the 56-bit key 
used in the Federal Data Encryption Standard (DES) [24J is too 
small and that current technology allows an exhaustive search 
56 of the 2 keys. Although there is controversy surround ing 
this issue [9,15,34,23,40,2J, there is almost universal agree-
ment [37,5) that multiple encryption using independent keys can 
increase the strength of DES. But, as noted in [5 J, the in-
crease in security can be far less than might first appear. 
This chapter shows that a recently proposed scheme [37J for 
multiple encryption suffers from such a weakness. 
The simplest approach to increasing the key size is to en-
crypt twice, with two independent keys K1 and K2. Letting P be 
a 64 bit plaintext, C a 64 bit ciphertext, and K a 56 bit key, 
the basic DES encryption operation can be represented as 
(10.1) 
and simple double encryption is obtained as 
(10.2) 
While exhaustive search over all 2112 keys ((K1,K2) 
.) . 2112 t· d ill . f . bl th· palrs requlres opera lons an s c ear y ln eaSl e, lS 
cipher can be broken under a known plaintext attack (where 
corresponding plaintext and ciphertext are both known) with 256 
operations [5J, and 256 words of memory. The complexity, meas-
6/4179 Chapter X Page 142 

ON THE SECURITY OF MULTIPLE ENCRYPTION 
ured as time plus memory is therefore no greater than is needed 
to cryptanalyze a single 56 bit key exhaustively. (Though the 
cost is somewhat higher since memory is "more expensive" than 
time.) If P and C represent a known plaintext-ciphertext pa ir, 
then the algorithm for accomplishing this (5] encrypts P under 
all 256 possible values of K1, decrypts C under all 256 values 
of K2 and looks for a match. For obvious reasons this is 
called a "meet in the middle" attack and is given in detail by 
the following algorithm (Where n is the number of keys in the 
key space. For DES, n = 256 ): 
1.) For i = 1 to n Do 
a.) Table(i] = <Si(p),i,"encrypt"> 
-1 b.) Table(n+iJ = <Si (C),i,"decrypt"> 
2.) Sort the table on the first field. 
3.) Search the table for adjacent entries of the form 
6/4/79 
<value,K1,"encrypt"> 
<value,K2,"decrypt"> 
and test to see if K1 and K2 are the correct keys by 
encrypting further plaintext-ciphertext pairs. Based 
on unicity distance arguments (30,35], there will be 
about 248 "false alarms" for I<'1 and K2 if a single 
plaintext-ciphertext pair is used. Testing these 
takes less than 256 operations and therefore contri-
butes an unimportant overhead to the computation. 
Chapter X Page 143 

ON THE SECURITY OF MULTIPLE ENCRYPTION 
While the algorithm given runs in time n log n, it could 
be rewritten using hash tabl es to run in essentially linear 
time. In any event, the present analysis wi1l neglect loga-
rithmic factors. 
The use of double encryption provides some increase in 
. t b th 1 . th f t'· . 2 56 securl y ecause e a gorl m or cryp ana_ysIs requIres 
d f as well as 256 wor s 0 mf'mory, operations. The cost of a 
machine to perform 256 operations in approximately a day has 
been estimated by Diffie and Hellman [5] to be about 20 million 
dollars. The cost of 256 64-bit words of memory on 6250 cpi 
reels of magnetic tape, assuming 2400 foot reels that cost $15 
dollars each, is about 60 billion dollars. 
While the cost of implementing this search is high enough 
to discourage its use today, the danger of cheaper technology 
or shortcuts [9] in the future prompted Diffie and He1lman to 
suggest triple encryption with three independent keys K1, K2 
and K3. A generalized meet in the middle attack would then re­
quire 2112 operations and be well beyond the foreseeable tech-
nology for at least 50 years, and possibly forever. 
At the 1978 National Computer Conference, Tuchman [37] 
proposed a triple encryption method which uses only two keys K1 
and K2. The plaintext is encrypted with K1. decrypted with K2, 
then again encrypted with K1 so that: 
6/4/79 Chapter X Page 144 

ON THE SECURITY OF MULTIPLE ENCRYPTION 
This method seems to avoid the "meet in the middle" attack 
outlined above and is upwardly compatible with a single encryp-
tion by setting K1 = K2 to produce: 
(10.4) 
This allows users of the new (two key) system to decrypt 
data encrypted by users of the old (single key) system. 
Although the encryption technique (10.3) provides more 
security than simple double encryption as in (10.2), it is 
shown below that the new method can be cryptanal yzed using a 
chosen plaintext attack [6J in about 256 operations. We there-
fore recommend that if triple encryption is used, there be 
three independent keys. If compatibil ity with single encryp-
tion is desired, the operation can be taken to be: 
-1 C = SK1£SK2[SK3(P)J} (10.5) 
Then when K1 = K2 = K3 = K, C = SK(P). Users could al so be 
compatible with Tuchman's suggested two key method by taking K1 
= K3. 
Although chosen plaintext attacks can sometimes be mounted 
on real systems, the following should be viewed as a "certifi-
cational attack" which is only indicative of a weakness. His-
tory, littered with the broken remains of "unbreakable" ci-
phers, teaches extreme caution in certifying a new one [12J, so 
that today even an indication of weakness is regarded as 
dangerous. In many cases, ciphers which have yielded to chosen 
6/4/79 Chapter X Page 145 

ON THE SECURITY OF MULTIPLE ENCRYPTION 
plaintext attacks have later proven vulnerable to known plain-
text or ciphertext only attacks as well. 
We define some useful notation before describing the 
method of cryptanalysis: 
C = Enc(P) = -1 SK1 {SK2[SK1 (P)]} (10.6) 
M1 = SK1 (P) (10.7) 
-1 (10.8) M2 = SK2(M1) 
-1 (10.9) = SK2 (SK1 (P» 
-1 (10.10) = SK1(C) 
M1 and M2 are intermediate values in the computation of C from 
. P. 
We can motivate the method of cryptanalysis with the fol-
lowing observations: 
If we knew K1 and a (P, C) pair, then it would be possible 
to compute the intermediate values M1 and M2 from (10.7) and 
(10.10). This would let us mount a known plaintext attack on 
K2 using (10.8). There are 256 values of K1, so if we could 
quickly determine the right K2 once we found the rigbt K1, then 
cryptanalysis would only take 256 operations. Determining K2 
using a known plaintext attack requires 256 operations, which 
is too long. 
The trick is to somehow change the known plaintext attack 
on K2 to a chosen plaintext at tack (that is, M1 is chosen in 
(10.8); for example, M1 = Q), so we can quickly solve for K2 
6/4/79 Chapter X Page 146 

ON THF SECURITY OF ~ULTIPLE ENCRYPTION 
with a table lookup. This increases the memory needed to 256 
words, the same as is needed by the meet in the middle attack 
for simple double encryption. 
For this attack to work, we must find the value of P such 
that M1 = SK1(P) = Q. If we knew the right K1, then we could 
-1 easily compute P = SK1(Q) from(10.7), and cryptanalyze the sys-
tem in one step, because we could then request EncCP) = C, (by 
-1 the chosen plaintext assumption); compute SK1(C) = M2; and com-
pute K2 in one step from ~2 using the precomputed table. 
Since we do not know K1, we repeat this process for each 
of its 256 possible values and test any resulting (K1,K2) pairs 
to see which one is correct. Again using unicity distance ar-
48 . guments, we expect 2 false alarms, which is small compared 
with 256. 
-1 Because P = SK1(Q) from (10.7) and M2 = -1 SK1 (Q) from (10.8) 
the algorithm can proceed as follows: 
1.) For i = 1 to n Do 
.... -1 
a.) M2 = Si (Q) 
b.) Table[ iJ = <M2, i, "2"> 
" -1 -1 c.) M2 = S. (EncCSi (0») 1 -
d.) Table[n+iJ = <M2 ,i,"1"> 
2.) Sort the table on the first field. 
3.) Search the table for adjacent entries of the form 
<value ,K2, "2"> 
<value,K1,"1"> 
6/4/79 Chapter X Page 147 

ON THE SECURITY OF MULTIPLE ENCRYPTION 
and test to see if K1 and K2 are the correct keys by 
checking further plaintext-ciphertext pairs. 
Step 3 is guaranteed to find the correct (K1,K2) pair. 
6/4/79 Chapter X Page 148 

ON THE SECURITY OF MULTIPLE ENCRYPTION 
Conclusion 
Two methods of multiple encryption have been shown to be 
less secure than they first appeared. The weakness in both 
cases came from an ability to separate the key into two halves 
which did not interact. We conclude that all bits of the key 
should come into play repeatedly in a complex fashion as they 
do in the 56-bit DES, and that multiple encryption with any 
cryptographic system is 1 iable to be much less secure than a 
system designed originally for the longer key. 
6/4/79 Chapter X Page 149 

XI. CONCLUSION 
The use of cryptography is growing because of the increas­
ing demand for privacy as reflected in new legislation, the 
need to protect vulnerable electronic funds transfer systems, 
the increasing quantity and value of information sent over 
vulnerable communication channels, the dropping price of eaves­
dropping and analyzing information, and the dropping price of 
protecting information via encryption. 
Although it is difficult to predict the curves and swerves 
of a new and rapidly developing technology, it appears that 
many of the techniques described in this thesis will be used in 
telecommunication systems that span the globe to protect the 
privacy and integrity of communications of all kinds. 
6/4/79 Chapter XI Page 150 

XII. BIBLIOGRAPHY 
1. A.V. Aho, J.E. Hopcroft and J.D. Ullman, The Desjgn and 
Analysis of Computer Algorithms, Reading, Ma.: Addison-Wesley, 
1974. 
2. O.K. Branstad, J. Gait, and S. Katzke, Report of the 
workshop on cryptography in support of computer security, Na­
tional Eureau of Standards Rep. NESIR 77-1291, 21-22 Sept. 
1976. 
3. R. Davis, Remed ies sought to defeat Soviet eavesdropping 
on microwave links, ~icrowave Syst., vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 17-20, 
June 1978. 
4. Diffie, W., and Hellman, M.E., Privacy and authentication: 
an introduction to cryptography, Proceed ings of the IEEE Vol. 
67, No.3, Mar. 1979 pp. 397-427. 
5. Diffie, W. and Hellman, M. Exhaustive cryptanalysis of 
the NBS data encryption standard, Computer June 1977, pp. 74-
84. 
6. Di ffie, W., and Hellman, M. New directions in cryptogra­
phy. IEEE Trans. on Inform. IT-22, 6(Nov. 1976), 644-654. 
7. Evans, A., Kantrowitz, W., and Weiss, E. A user authenti­
cation system not requiring secrecy in the computer. Comm. ACM 
6/4/79 Chapter XII Page 151 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 
17, 8(Aug. 1974), 437-442. 
8. Feistel, H. Cryptography and computer privacy. Sci. Am. 
228,5 (May 1973), 15-23. 
9. Hellman, M. Merkle, R. Schroeppel, R. Washington, L., Dif­
fie, W., Pohlig, S., Schweitzer, P. Results of an initial at­
tempt to cryptanalyze the NBS data encryption standard, Infor­
mation Systems Laboratory SEL 76-042, Sept. 9, 1976. 
10. E. Horowitz and S. Sahni, Computing partitions with appli­
cations to the knapsack problem, JACM, Vol 21, No.2, April 
. 1974, pp. 277-292. 
11. O.H. Ibarra and C. E. Kim, Fast approximation algorithms 
for the knapsack and sum of subset problems, JACM Vol. 22, No. 
4, October 1975, pp. 463-468. 
12. Kahn, D. The Codebreakers. Macmillan, New York, 1976. 
13. Karp, R. M. Reducibility among combinatorial problems, in 
Complexity of Computer Computations, R. E. Miller and J. W. 
Thatcher, eds., Plenum Press, New York (1972), pp. 85-104. 
14. Kohnfelder, L.M. Using certificates for key distribution 
in a public-key cryptosystem. Private communication. 
6/4/79 Chapter XII Page 152 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 
15. Kolata, G.B. Computer encryption and the National Securi­
ty Agency. Science, Vol. 197, July 29, 1977. 
16. E. L. Lawler, Fast approximation algorithms for knapsack 
problems, Electronics Research Laboratory, College of Eng. U.C. 
Berkeley Memorandum No. UCB/ERL M77/45, 21 June 1977. 
17. Lipton, S.M., and f"latyas, S.f"l. Making the digital signa­
ture legal--and safeguarded. Data Communications (Feb. 1978), 
41-52. 
18. McEliece, R.J. A public-key cryptosystem based on alge­
braic coding theory. DSN Progress Report, JPL, (Jan. and Feb. 
1978), 42-44. 
19. Merkle, R. A certified digital signature, submitted to 
CACM. 
20. Merkle, R. Secure communications over insecure channels. 
Comma ACM 21, 4(Apr. 1978), 294-299. 
21. Merkle, R., and Hellman, M. Hiding information and signa­
tures in trapdoor knapsacks. IEEE Trans. on Inform. IT-24 , 
5(Sept. 1978), 525-530. 
22. R. Merkle, Secure communications over insecure channels, 
6/4/79 Chapter XII Page 153 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 
CACM Vol. 4, No. 21, April 1978 pp 294-299. 
23. Morris, R., Sloane, N.J.A., and Wyner, A.D. Assessment of 
the National Bureau of Standards proposed federal data encryp­
tion standard. Cryptologia, vol. 1, pp. 281-291, July 1977. 
24. National Bureau of Standards, Federal Information Process­
ing Standards Publication No. 46. 
25. R.M. Needham and M.D. Schroeder, Using encryption for au­
thentication in large networks of computers. CACM 21,12 Dec. 
1978 pp. 993-999. 
26. S.C. Pohlig and M.E. Hellman, An improved algorithm for 
computing logarithms over GF(P) and its cryptographic signifi­
cance, IEEE Trans. on Info Theory, vol. IT-24 , pp. 106-111, 
Jan. 1978. 
27. G.J. Popek and C.S. Kline, Encryption protocols, public 
key algorithms, and digital signatures in computer networks; in 
Foundations of Secure Computation, pp. 133-153. 
28. George B. Purdy, A high security log-in procedure, Comm. 
of the ACM, Vol. 17 No.8, pp. 442-445, Aug. 1974. 
6/4/79 Chapter XII Page 154 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 
29. Rabin, M.O., Digitalized signatures, in Foundations of 
Secure Computation, ed. DemilIo, R.A., et. al. pp. 155-166. 
30. Hellman, M.E. An extension of the Shannon theory approach 
to cryptography, IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory Vol. IT-23 , May 
1977 pp. 2A9-294. 
31. Rivest, R.L., ~hamir, A., and Adleman, L. A method for ob­
taining digital signatures and public-key cryptosystems. Comm. 
ACM 21, 2(Feb. 1978), 120-126 . 
. 32. J. Saltzer, On Digital Signatures, private communication. 
33. R. Schroeppel, unpublished work. 
34. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Involvement of 
the NSA in the development of the data encryption standard. 
News release, April 12, 1978. 
35. Shannon, C. E. Communication theory of secrecy systems. 
Bell Sys. Tech. Jour. 28 (1949) 654-715. 
36. J. Squires, Russ monitor of U.S. phones, Chicago Tribune 
pp. 123, June 25, 1975. 
6/4/79 Chapter XII Page 155 

PIBLIOGRAPHY 
37. W.L. Tuchman, Talk presented at the Nat. Computer Conf., 
Anaheim, Ca. June 1978. 
38. Wilkes, M.V., Time-Sharing Computer Systems, Elsevier, New 
York, 1972. 
39. Wyner, A. D. The wire tap channel. Bell Sys. Tech. Jour. 
54,8 (Oct. 1975), 1355-1387. 
40. E.K. Yasaki, Encryption algorithm: key size is the thing, 
Datamation, Vol. 22, No.3, pp. 164,166, Mar. 1976 • 
. 41. Feller, W. An Introduction to Probability Theory and its 
Applications, Vol. I, third edition, New York, Wiley 1968, p. 
33. 
42. Shamir, A. On the cryptocomplexity of knapsack systems, 
Symposium on the Theory of Complexity, Atlanta, Georgia, Apr. 
1979. 
43. Shamir, A. A fast signature scheme, MIT Laboratory for 
Computer Science Report TM-107 July 1978. 
6/4/79 Chapter XII Page 156 

XIII. ROUTINES TO GENERATE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
1* 
General Comments: 
The following routines have been written in PC, a 
simplified version of C that does indefinite precision 
integer arithmetic. BC runs on a PDP-11 under the Unix 
operating system. 
BC has a few peculiar conventions as follows: 
% The infix mod operator. w'Xm computes w modulo m. 
auto A local variable declaration. 
++ The unary increment-by-one operator. As a 
postfix operator, it first returns the value 
of a variable, then increments it. As a prefix 
operator, it increments a variable and returns 
the incremented value. 
Same as ++, only it decrements. 
!= The relational not-equal operator. 0!=1 is true, 
but O!=O is false. 
" " 
The relational equal operator: 0==0 is true. 
The indicated string is printed, no print or output 
statement is needed. 
exp A naked expression is printed. The statement 
6/4/79 
" i = ";i 
when i has value 845 will print 
i = 845 
To prevent unwanted printout of integer values 
from function calls, the construct 
f=f(a,b,c) 
Chapter XIII Page 157 

*1 
1* 
*1 
ROUTINES TO GENERATE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
will often appear, where f is a dummy variable 
which is discarded 
[] Left and right braces cannot appear in comments or 
in quotes (a bug) so all comments and quotes use 
( and ) for array subscripts. 
The semicolon is optional at the end of a line. 
if(O==O) statement; The statement is executed. This 
redundant construct is required because of 
bugs in BC. 
This file contains all routines necessary to 
generate trapdoor knapsacks, EXCEPT the 
routine r(l,h), used to generate a random number 
in the range from 1 (low) to h (high). That 
is, rO,h) is a random number satisfying 
1 < rO ,h) <h 
The main routine is m:make. Once called, it calls upon 
other routines, as needed, to generate the trapdoor knapsack. 
define m(m,n,r,g,b){ 
auto i,e,t 
1* m:make makes the enciphering and deciphering 
6/4/79 
keys for the iterated generalized knapsack method. 
The input parameters have the following meanings: 
m: The size in bits of m(1), the first modulus. 
n: The number of integers in the generalized 
Chapter XIII Page 158 

:-
, 
ROUTINES TO GENERATE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
trapdoor knapsack. 
r: the repetition count, i • e. , how many iterations. 
g: The growth rate, in bits/iteration. 
b: The bound on the x( 1): o < xCi) < b. 
Print out the arguments: *1 
if( 1 ==1) " 
The arguments m,n,r,g,b to m:make were: 
" 
m 
n 
r 
g 
·b 
1* 
*1 
We compare the "natural" growth rate 
with the growth rate g. If the natural growth rate 
exceeds the growth rate g, then we assume that the 
natural growth rate is desired. 
g=2"g 
t= (b-1 )*n 
jf(g<t) g=t 
1* e determines how many multiples of m(i) can be 
added to the a(i) *1 
e=g/t-1 
if(O==O) " 
6/4/79 Chapter XIII Page 159 

ROUTINES TO GENERATE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
The value of e is: ";e 
1* now we generate m( 1 ) and w( 1) *1 
m[ 1 ] = r(2"(m-1),2"m) 
w[ 1] = r(1,m[1 ]) 
1* Now to make sure gcd(w(1),m(1» = *1 
t = g (w[ 1 ], m [ 1 ]) 
while(t!=1) { w[1] = w[1]/t; t=g(w[1],m[1])} 
1[1] = i(w[1],m[1]) 
1* now we generate the a' vector 
(the value of c is discarded) *1 
c=c(w[1 ],m[1 ],b,n) 
1* copy it for safekeeping *1 
for(i=1;i<=n;i++) p[i]=a[i] 
" basis generated 
" 
1* now to generate the rest of the wand m vectors *1 
for(i=2;i<=r;i++) { 
i 
m[i] = rCg*m[i-1],2*g*m[i-1]) 
w[i] = r(1,m[i]) 
1* Make sure gcd(w(i),m(i»=1 *1 
t = gCw[iJ,m[ i]) 
while(t!=1) { w[i]=w[i]/t; t=g(w[i],m[i.])} 
1* and compute the inverse of w modulo m *1 
i[i] = i(w[i],m[i]) 
} 
1* Now we can generate the public enciphering vector *1 
for(i=1;i<=n;i++) forCj=1;j<=r;j++) { 
6/4/79 Chapter XIII Page 160 

~ 
i 
j 
ROUTINES TO GENERATE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
a[i]=a[i]*i[j]%m[j]+r(O,e)*m[j] 
" Mark! " 
} 
1* And print the public enciphering vector *1 
if{O==O) " The public enciphering vector is: 
" 
p(a[],n) 
1* print the simple knapsack vector *1 
if{O==O) " 
The simple (secret) knapsack vector is: 
" 
p(p[],n) 
if{O==O) " The w vector is: 
" 
p(w[],r) 
if (0==0) " The m vector is: 
" 
p{m[],r) 
if{O==O) " The i (inverse of w) vector is: 
" 
p( H J,r) 
return(O) 
} 
" just passed m:make 
" 
define i( a, b){ 
6/4/79 Chapter XIII Page 161 

ROUTINES TO GENERATE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
auto j,i,m,t 
/* This routine computes a inverse mod b 
i= 1 
j=O 
m=b 
while(O==O){ 
t=b/a 
j=j-t*i 
b=b-t*a 
if(b==O) if (a!=1) " in i: invert. 
" 
if(b==O) return(i) 
t=a/b 
i= i-t* j 
a=a-t*b 
if( a==O) if (b! = 1) "in 
" 
if(a==O) return(j+m) 
} 
} 
" just passed i:invert 
" 
define g(a,b){ 
auto i,j,k 
i: invert. 
/* computes the gcd of a and b */ 
while(O==O){ 
a=a%b 
if(a==O) return(b) 
b=b%a 
*/ 
gcd 
gcd 
6/4/79 Chapter XIII Page 162 
is not 
is not 
1 
1 

} 
" 
" 
ROUTINES TO GENERATE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
if(b==O) return(a) 
} 
just passed g:gcd 
define c(w,m,b,n){ 
auto k,j,x,y 
1* c:create creates the n numbers involved in the simple 
generalized knapsack vector. 0< xCi) < b. 
. *1 
} 
" 
" 
Note that the array a really represents 
the a' vector. 
Note that summation over n of (b-1)*a(i) is bounded by m, 
and that the a(i) satisfy a(i) > (b-1) * summation a(j) 
for j<i. 
k = m 1 b .... n 
for(j=1;j<=n;j++){ 
a[j] = r«b .... (j-1)-1)*k+1,b .... (j-1)*k) 
} 
return(O) 
just passed c:create 
define p(a[],n){ 
auto i 
1* p:print prints Qut an array *1 
for(i=1;i<=n;1++) a[i] 
return() 
6/4/79 Chapter XIII Page 163 

ROUTINES TO GENERATE TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
} 
" just passed p:print 
" 
1* The calling sequence: global parameters are initialized, 
and the main routine, m, is called. 
The "?" is an input statement * 1 
m=? 
n=? 
r=? 
g=? 
b=? 
m(m,n,r,g,b) 
6/4/79 Chapter XIII Page 164 
9 

! 
XIV. EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
1. Introduction 
This appendix gives some example trapdoor knapsacks. The 
author has retained the secret deciphering keys, and the reader 
is challenged to break any of them. They are of marginal 
strength to encourage attempts to break them. Full documenta­
tion, including listings of all relevant programs and the enci­
phering key, are given. 
2. Description 
The reader is assumed to be familiar with [6]. Most of 
the notation and all of the concepts that follow are described 
there. 
The program which generates trapdoor knapsack vectors has 
five input parameters, as well as a source of random integers. 
The random numbers are provided by a subroutine. This subrou­
tine, r(l,h), accepts two arguments: a lower limit and an upper 
limit. It returns a random integer in the range from the lower 
limit to the upper limit (inclusive). 
The five parameters describe: 
1) n: The number of integers in the knapsack. 
2) b: The range of the x[i]. 0 < x[i] < b. 
3) r: The number of iterations. 
~) g: The "growth" of the m vector per iteration in bits. 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 165 

EXA~PLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
(That is, m[i] is about 2g·m[i-1]). 
5) m: The size of m[1], the first modulus. (Note that m, 
as used in this context, is NOT the same as m 
described in [1]. The m vector is the natural 
generalization of m in [1].) 
The reader can check his understanding of the parameters 
n, b, and r by examining the following program segment. If we 
let the a' vector be the easy to solve (secret) knapsack vec­
tor, and a be the publicly known knapsack vector, then the rou­
tine for decoding s, the weighted sum of the integers in the a 
vector (s = x dot a) is: 
For j = r downto 1 do s = s*w[j] mod m[j]; 
For j = n downto 1 do 
Begin 
x[j]=s/a'[j]; 
End 
if(x[j]>=b) print(" Error: x[j] larger than b"); 
s=s-x[j]*a'[j]; 
Note that the first For statement converts s from the dif­
ficult to solve knapsack problem to the easy to solve knapsack 
problem. The vectors wand m are just the generalizations of 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 166 
., 

! 
EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
the integers wand m used in the single iteration knapsack. 
The second For statement decodes s into a weighted sum of 
the a'[i]. 
The parameters g and m are used to define the size of the 
integers in the knapsack problem. In particular, m gives the 
size in bits of m[1J, while g gives the "growth rate", Le., 
the increase in the size between m[i] and m[i+1]. These two 
parameters, taken together, define the size of m[i] for all i. 
Knapsacks with the following parameters have been gen­
erated: 
6/4179 
m 
300 
300 
300 
550 
n 
20 
6 
r 
6 
2 
g 
30 
30 
b 
2"10 
2"30 
20 2"10 
4 2"100 
Chapter XIV Page 167 

EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
3. THE PUBLIC ENCIPHERING KEYS 
The following section has the output of the trapdoor knap­
sack generating function. The output has been edited both for 
clarity and to delete the secret deciphering keys. The digits 
in the secret deciphering keys have been replaced with X's, 
thus clearly showing the size of these numbers but concealing 
their exact values. 
Numbers which require more than one line are extended us­
ing "\" at the end of the line. 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 168 

? 
EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
The arguments m,n,r,g,b to m:make were: 
300 
20 
o 
1024 
The value of e is: 0 
The public enciphering vector is: 
15129608995554448265183294801259173700777693742504245849293517\ 
00743775970020807652616728474 
. 17524932983557645722760284190473882583927059421015819376353932\ 
5799065041428006760782725691 
17225937970747338687231551661572161286297722869710199263697080\ 
7820958655976133279487750620 
91488866379290109557739402894698211130838391427430023781525692\ 
3811073379658376192168379165 
94262820794253890320443933071875869795625142774573849428509608\ 
650456231106385706727836631 
11388384681036095320536124150646919167647675890919002134429991\ 
63493020581846432447173678482 
17164561490371563702262183773738261525487190864260252517798872\ 
77213395347497006724623499765 
86517801731770532543741885456541883058148324212404989101077399\ 
8735545819677701380449301433 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 169 

EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
11918610102945650340311160161650311523832811383399928255062558\ 
02514510029525184748851751894 
10186511811912590244551480266112526423081912035430233837583568\ 
28199528366796096978741582414 
88132900511530210932431198840838038423113420192104681140079893\ 
1596001610428439534682519121 
11271491248094114240428639166896531852810916694253901676788123\ 
04015415567501129115853489561 
12085311314318150243424363543606231831199901981114062610222009\ 
15669311895163002094289286961 
14485430922501364435992263112363565292151305951945041835388146\ 
69771715706518806175445236680 
. 18881261711072427885226330073913600056141964754750810684880976\ 
69208294411355621724461161591 
18840689204755897531138630187418592655100273389883361028261623\ 
8323731921940674944071511959 
53196909860835203432715212539792034763303370601440944113970149\ 
6134355179709669756985245364 
17508960079759190905452196910562315702874340626629585921387736\ 
53520312052499979153941352119 
75110242518324020050071796663749928678824337103158621132808528\ 
834253104532129465889505610 
18633041196220983043158614594316710432541253309650075539934535\ 
52119983887566281548150010461 
The simple (secret) knapsack vector is: 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 110 

EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
. XX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
6/4/19 Chapter XIV Page 171 

EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
The w vector is: 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
The m vector is: 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
The i (inverse of w) vector is: 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 172 

EXA~PLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
The arguments m,n,r,g,b to m:make were: 
550 
4 
1 
30 
1267650600228229401496703205376 
The value of e is: 0 
The public enciphering vector is: 
66548921643195336226466738477434229959192804189375188792173517\ 
98204581021406969103971543806570426505592910710830964580119256\ 
. 57074465022305714593614695666457981294232 
11684898605722586318894226889837168088364682651279852730837157\ 
59301391908196763856942352126002186651785657829322167674672214\ 
87936298749063963446686191605473239307527 
28673911921164002303992927072837051623067378006874600205947505\ 
33516592506537471315024349010350090619979216651185755427174124\ 
601708976690831746874800531778679894464877 
10698579696822998161535367373067222285227832403890470260459712\ 
75683530572527154813286992913241349008324990670208801873643214\ 
620092254448548529952897080766929088669071 
The simple (secret) knapsack vector is: 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 173 

EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXX 
The w vector is: 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
The m vector is: 
. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
The i (inverse of w) vector is: 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 174 

FXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
The arguments m,n,r,g,b to m:make were: 
300 
6 
2 
30 
1073741824 
The value of e is: 0 
The public enciphering vector is: 
13132235906108717392663365023635308161076002659005223324995682\ 
25757599936500808339254694610635045146 
. 12528488195733656928466152676882523900185516876324287298619131\ 
380586309946524954009856518314444714159 
98959536571058166688252421388712784824420035528572633604543631\ 
48601662744714607478456499807853916200 
12178246401570249356105744244631115771305946255369054130689551\ 
725925672696713096799262325240902054193 
13359484996590370029702383299514807005137667883850037475621696\ 
084206987776300260651262919761676285651 
10605380625130962048597032199209554360229746160482647791377347\ 
415113739429281225862963632868189331960 
The simple (secret) knapsack vector is: 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 175 

EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
The w vector is: 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
The m vector is: 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
The i (inverse of w) vector is: 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 176 

EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
The arguments m,n,r,g,b to m:make were: 
300 
20 
6 
30 
1024 
The value of e is: 52479 
The public enciphering vector is: 
38715730992554486121272405707302308900190254362381098248854037\ 
02039089147774642182302678634059272748460321670522654185789046\ 
. 69317062601758874 
45963481413062270897336980471131787803479816837563704871634929\ 
64412545824400034470141207481925514558064955814501581390649868\ 
25526460022708092 
47379305802924677405559984916424427031739779129707090405682403\ 
71910070469798171108869279088831676924440803743504418976009529\ 
4154941724990513 
84147494179172295428375031758012898740442809371305937121065706\ 
84577751060823914277922629647522204684617711533895415516215144\ 
0356446225485422 
35547604501964494370572010230613962827803372039718656497738549\ 
70511639432408234857437415904856467426298605828569125571658631\ 
23689858301771567 
26327874002151723192221794869064497756424507919872393125373781\ 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 177 

EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACK~ 
23867772453949577638673204672488027113486979841148992157446034\ 
95311577477033299 
44137427640458270099948143106280924336347013911498245284167859\ 
96607761771476233994006770106080475456661015482830880038635956\ 
18128469849886865 
82869734506728408857670646187367840701450363010442084975363677\ 
76927489127818427124735230413757953097918761358229919317923335\ 
3546850589724563 
14435783033057224190224067526217500711045449689908289174307459\ 
73420352036464461078659313878916939486093236699367612785917679\ 
78264370706748596 
76219518479176804330617483693702169070570461167513995951771603\ 
. 15437650600544017420217970789135573545530048922944206333030398\ 
0826452486752343 
39057907333091628756443751313956792336454871430361636888411903\ 
66734535303428276644443984266324863268312425515094793334960194\ 
96299472093280176 
33713269934573232136020826742991836655590472158848681940828486\ 
25686782702318796654172703957782207550398421357982260463217571\ 
00121265799943710 
69921134220631872208059007887490035018668902960747850777141543\ 
19049543017365942287891801006275473440066900746652591567349236\ 
8805266202636565 
51196238094281378251652093753017210817286419746759610742659928\ 
94616199507515513250496229763102416668715378488669390981450426\ 
56875350837400915 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 178 
t 
, 

1 
• 
EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
44724883620928222090784519562821837484590672358050427322934764\ 
97494151350493273373028039004676025506580949966000913729267884\ 
31749339300260941 
85206344330067581086837330930667257383968038059247870726076869\ 
07880727801972856294928972164592767702534838364099275193529311\ 
43754226678945 
38970025165685322293070154507730744153272694441127356546088301\ 
19043923071104022138625700393102913674285153293383917226363619\ 
26355581688896977 
35735016141627835378596877196728868785145457355564120606595359\ 
93993394406622491144746236939321856430045889991927582914696631\ 
91555560301521980 
. 23750606001016588281369991225133189815540183312165150355918705\ 
14360762678975349752670346674852363030135963548192317645214176\ 
45809506052808766 
12811316661104085102673572902768673537492304808275616527342662\ 
60692973884603159029815008726045088971127956724223143319836701\ 
11913499359574243 
o 
The simple (secret) knapsack vector is: 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 179 

EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXX 
. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
The w vector is: 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 180 

EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXX 
The m vector is: 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
6/4/19 Chapter XIV Page 181 

EXAMPLES OF TRAPDOOR KNAPSACKS 
xxx 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXX 
The i (inverse of w) vector is: 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXX 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\ 
XXXXXXXXX 
6/4/79 Chapter XIV Page 182 

