Set Reconciliation with Nearly Optimal
Communication Complexity
Yaron Minsky,yAri Trachtenberg,zand Richard Zippelx
April 29, 2004
Abstract
We consider the problem of eciently reconciling two similar sets
held by dierent hosts while minimizing the communication complex-
ity, which we call the set reconciliation problem. We describe an ap-
proach to set reconciliation based on a polynomial encoding of sets.
The resulting protocols exhibit tractable computational complexity
and nearly optimal communication complexity when the sets being
reconciled are sparse. Also, these protocols can be adapted to work
over a broadcast channel, allowing many clients to reconcile with one
host based on a single broadcast, even if each client is missing a dier-
ent subset.
1 Introduction
We consider the problem of reconciling two physically separated sets with a
minimum of communication. Set reconciliation is particularly useful in sys-
tems that make progress in the face of poor and/or unpredictable network
connectivity by temporarily sacricing consistency. Such systems typically
A version of this paper appeared in the IEEE Transactions on Information Theory,
vol 49, no. 9, pp. 2213-2218, and a dierent version was presented at the International
Symposium on Information Theory, June 2001. A more complete earlier version of this
paper is available as Technical Report 2000-1796 from Cornell University
yY. Minsky is with the Dept. of Computer Science, Cornell University, Email: ymin-
sky@cs.cornell.edu
zA. Trachtenberg is with the Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Boston
University, Email: trachten@bu.edu
xR. Zippel is with the School of Computer Sciences, The Interdisciplinary Center,
Herzliya, Email: rz@idc.ac.il
1

require some mechanism for repairing whatever inconsistencies are intro-
duced, and set reconciliation can be a useful tool for doing those repairs.
Examples of this kind of system arise in a variety of contexts, including
distributed databases and le systems [1,2], mobile database synchroniza-
tion [3, 4], gossip protocols [5{7], and resource location systems [8,9]. More
generally, set reconciliation can be useful in any system that needs to main-
tain the consistency of unordered, distributed data.
The problem of reconciling two hosts’ data sets can be formalized as
follows: given a pair of hosts A and B, each with a set of length b bitstrings,
how can both host determine the union of the two sets with a minimal
amount of communication|both with respect to the number of exchanges
between the two hosts and with respect to the number of bits of information
exchanged. We call this the set reconciliation problem.
This paper presents a surprisingly simple and ecient class of set rec-
onciliation protocols based on a representation of sets as polynomials. The
advantage of this approach is that some operations on sets, in particular set
dierence, can be computed more eciently from the polynomial encoding.
The communication complexity of these set reconciliation protocols is close
to the size of the symmetric dierence of the two sets. Moreover, under
certain conditions, these protocols are one-way [10], meaning that no inter-
action between hosts is needed. Thus, a host A could broadcast an mb-bit
message, and every host Bi whose set diers from A’s set by at most m
bitstrings (each of length b) could recover the bitstrings it is missing. This
works even if each host Bi is missing a dierent set of bitstrings, so that
the total number of distinct bitstrings that can be recovered is much larger
than m.
We begin in Section 2 with a brief survey of the relevant literature.
Section 3 presents our set reconciliation algorithms and describes their per-
formance. Section 4 presents information-theoretic bounds on set reconcil-
iation, and shows that the communication complexity of our algorithms is
near optimal when the sets to be reconciled are sparse. Section 5 discusses
some of the connections between our work and Reed-Solomon decoding and
Section 6 presents our conclusions and directions for future research. The
appendix describes some of the computational intricacies of our protocols.
2 Related work
The general problem of eciently reconciling similar data is one that has
been studied extensively in a number of dierent settings. An overview of
2

that research is given below.
2.1 Error correcting codes
Set reconciliation is closely related to the problem of error-correction over
a noisy channel, where noise corresponds to dierences between sets. Thus,
one can represent a set S  U by a length jU j bitstring that has a 1 in
location i i the i-th element of U, according to some arbitrary ordering, is
present in S. Dierences between sets thus correspond to Hamming dier-
ences between their bitstring representations, and can be determined using
techniques described in Orlitsky’s PhD thesis [11] for linear codes, in [12] for
Reed-Solomon codes in particular, and in [13] for non-linear codes. Unfortu-
nately, the computational complexity of the standard encoding and decoding
algorithms for traditional error-correcting codes generally depends linearly
on code size, which is exponential in the representation size of an element
of S.
2.2 Communication complexity theory
There is a large body of work in what is typically called \communication
complexity theory" in which problems similar to set reconciliation have been
studied. The typical scenario for these works is that two discrete random
variables with a known joint distribution are given to two independent hosts;
each host desires to determine the other’s random variable with as little
communication as possible. Various results [10,11, 14,15] provide informa-
tion theoretic bounds on the amount of communication needed for such
random variable synchronization depending on the amount of interaction
(i.e., number of rounds of communication) permitted. These results show
that interaction can sometimes substantially reduce the amount of commu-
nication needed for synchronization. Extensions of these results show that
synchronizing with minimal communication is related to minimal coloring of
a corresponding characteristic graph [13, 16,17]. The enormous size of this
graph makes direct exploitation of this correspondence unwieldy in practice.
2.3 Set Representation
Central to our approach to set reconciliation in this paper is the represen-
tation of sets by their characteristic polynomials. This representation is not
novel and was rst proposed in [18] and later by Blum and Kannan [19] as
part of a probabilistic set equality test. That test is based on a probabilistic
equality test for polynomials proposed in [20], and we use essentially the
3

same approach to test rational function equality in Section 3.3. Another
aspect of our approach is that polynomials are manipulated by their values
rather than their coecients. A similar approach was proposed by Kaltofen
and Trager [21] as a way of eciently computing with sparse polynomi-
als. They present algorithms for computing the GCD, factorization, and
separation of numerators and denominators of black-box rational functions.
Other data structures have been proposed for representing sets in a way
that makes various operations more ecient. One relevant example is that
of a Bloom lter [22], which is a terse representation of sets that allows
for membership queries with a bounded probability of false positives. Un-
fortunately, Bloom lters do not provide an eective solution to the set
reconciliation problem, since the size of a Bloom lter is linear in the size of
the set being represented and the probability of false positives can be fairly
high.
Another way of encoding a set is to write down the set as a string con-
sisting of the set’s elements in sorted order. Insertions and deletions from
a set then correspond to insertions and deletions from the corresponding
string. Correction of insertion and deletion errors in strings has been stud-
ied in the context of spurious error correction [23, 24] and the -edits prob-
lem [15], and a number of algorithms for reconciling such errors have been
proposed [12,25{28]. A great deal of work also been done on the problem of
eciently computing the smallest possible set of edits separating two docu-
ments when both documents are available in their entirety (see [29] for an
overview.) Correcting insertions and deletion errors in a string appears to
be inherently more dicult than correction of insertion and deletion errors
in a set because of the ordered nature and unlimited length of the data. In
particular, correcting such errors in strings involves determining not only
the content of missing/added data, but also its location within a sequence.
As a result, set reconciliation algorithms based on this approach incur a
logarithmic dependency on the size of the sets being reconciled. Such a
dependency does not occur in our algorithms.
3 Set Reconciliation
Consider a pair of hosts A and B that each have a set of length b bitstrings,
denoted SA and SB respectively. Let the dierence sets A = SA n SB and
B = SB n SA have sizes mA and mB respectively. We denote the overall
number of dierences between the two hosts by m = mA + mB.
There is one case of the set reconciliation problem that has a straight-
4

forward solution|where mA = 1 and mB = 0. In this case, Protocol 1
reconciles the two sets with a single b-bit message. The key to Protocol 1
is that the elements in both SA and SB cancel each other out, leaving only
the parity sum of the dierence set. Since jAj = 1, this parity sum is in
fact the missing bitstring.
Protocol 1 Subset Reconciliation when mA = 1
1. Host A computes parityA, the parity sum of its bitstrings, and sends
it to B
2. Host B computes parityB, the parity sum of its bitstrings.
3. Host B computes the parity sum of parityA and parityB.
3.1 Characteristic Polynomials
Protocol 1 is limited to the case where mA = 1 and mB = 0 by the fact that
the parity sum is only sucient to recover the contents of a singleton set. To
generalize the approach of Protocol 1, we need a generalization of the parity
sum to the case of multiple dierences. The generalization we will use is
based on the characteristic polynomial S(Z) of a set S = fx1;x2; :: :;xng,
which we dene to be the following univariate polynomial.
S(Z) = (Z   x1)(Z   x2)(Z   x3)   (Z   xn) (1)
In order to use characteristic polynomials for set reconciliation, we need
to map length b bitstrings onto elements of some eld Fq where q  2b.
Note that the zeros of S(Z) are precisely the elements of S. Thus, the
elements of S can be recovered by factoring S(Z). Also note that S(Z)
is necessarily monic, i.e. its leading coecient is 1.
The characteristic polynomial of a set is not a summary of a set in the
same way that the parity sum is, since a set’s characteristic polynomial
contains all of the information contained in that set. Thus, a host can not
transmit the characteristic polynomial of a set any more cheaply than it
could transmit the set itself. The characteristic polynomial does, however,
allow for the kind of canceling that was central to Protocol 1. In particular,
consider the ratio between the characteristic polynomials of SA and SB:
SA(Z)
SB(Z) =
SA \ SB(Z)  A(Z)
SA \ SB(Z)  B(Z) =
A(Z)
B(Z) (2)
5

All terms corresponding to elements that are in both SA and SB cancel out,
leaving only the characteristic polynomials of A and B respectively, from
which the dierence sets themselves can be recovered.
The problem that remains is, how can A and B eciently compute the
ratio of their characteristic polynomials? The key idea is two divide out
the values of the polynomials at a collection of evaluation points, rather
than dividing the polynomials directly. The results of these divisions can
then be used to interpolate the desired rational function. This approach
takes advantage of the fact that if A and B are small, then the rational
function to be interpolated will have low degree. As a result, the number of
evaluation points required will be small as well.
3.2 Reconciliation with a known bound on m.
We rst consider how the above ideas can be applied to a context where an
upper bound m on m is known to all parties. Recall that m = mA + mB is
the number of elements that dier between SA and SB. The case where no
bound on m is known is discussed in Section 3.3.
Protocol 2 Set reconciliation
1. Hosts A and B evaluate SA(Z) and SB(Z) respectively at the same
m evaluation points, where m is greater than or equal to m.
2. The evaluations of SA(Z) and SB(Z) are combined to compute the
value of SA(Z)=SB(Z) at each of the evaluation points. These val-
ues are interpolated to recover the coecients of the reduced rational
function A(Z)=B(Z).
3. By factoring A(Z) and B(Z), the elements of A and B are
recovered.
Protocol 2 outlines our approach to set reconciliation for the case that a
close bound m on m is known. A more in-depth discussion of the workings
of the algorithm is given below.
3.2.1 Evaluating the Characteristic Polynomial
Most of the calculations required for set reconciliation, including the inter-
polation and factoring, depend only on the size of the symmetric dierence
6

between the sets to be reconciled. Evaluating each host’s characteristic poly-
nomial at a given evaluation point, on the other hand, requires a linear scan
over each host’s data set, which may be quite large. If the evaluation points
are chosen in advance, however, the cost of the evaluations can be amortized
over updates to those data sets. Specically, adding or deleting an element
x involves multiplying or dividing the value of the corresponding character-
istic polynomial by (Z   x) for each evaluation point Z. Thus, the cost per
insertion or deletion is 2m eld operations.
If an evaluation point k is chosen that is an element of SA and/or SB,
then the corresponding characteristic polynomial will vanish, complicating
the calculation of the ratio of A and B’s characteristic polynomials. These
anomalous evaluation points can be avoided by increasing the eld size q to
at least 2b + m. This ensures there are at least m evaluation points that
are guaranteed not to coincide with data elements. At worst, this approach
require one extra bit per element.
3.2.2 Rational Function Interpolation
The problem of determining a rational function that takes on prescribed
values is called the rational interpolation problem. In general, given bounds
d1 and d2 on the degrees of the numerator P(Z) = P
i piZi and denominator
Q(Z) = P
i qiZi of the rational function to be recovered, and a support set
V consisting of d1 + d2 + 1 pairs (ki; fi) 2 F2, there is a unique rational
function f (up to equivalence) such that f(ki) = fi for each (ki;fi) 2 V .
Each pair (ki; fi) in V implies a linear constraint on the coecients of the
numerator and denominator of the rational function to be recovered:
kd1
i + pd1 1kd1 1
i +    + p0
= fi  (kd2
i + qd2 1kd2 1
i +    + q0): (3)
Interpolation is achieved by solving the d1 + d2 + 1 simultaneous linear
equations implied by the elements of V [30].
Our problem in step 2 of Protocol 2 diers from the standard rational
interpolation problem in that we have a bound m on the total degree m =
mA+mB of the function, rather than individual numerator and denominator
bounds. Note, however, that mA mB = jSAj jSBj, and so can be computed
easily. Given  = mA   mB and an upper bound m on m, we can compute
bounds on mA and mB as follows:
mA  b(m + )=2c
def
= mA
mB  b(m   )=2c
def
= mB
7

We can assume w.l.o.g. that  and m have the same parity1 so that mA +
mB = m.
The following theorem, adapted from a standard theorem on rational
interpolation (see [31], Proposition 2.2.1.4), shows that a support set of size
m is sucient to ensure uniqueness.
Theorem 1 Let V be a support set with m elements over a eld F. Assume
there exist two monic rational functions f and g that satisfy V , and that the
numerator and denominator of f (respectively g) have degrees summing to
at most m. If the dierence in degrees between numerator and denominator
of f is the same as for g, then f and g are equivalent.
In our case, we know that a rational function f satisfying the degree
bounds of Theorem 1 exists because the support set V is taken from the
rational function A(Z)=B(Z), which is assumed to satisfy those degree
bounds. Thus, existence and uniqueness (up to equivalence) are guaranteed.
3.2.3 Example
Consider the sets SA = f1; 2;9;12; 33g and SB = f1;2; 9; 10;12;28g stored
at hosts A and B respectively as 6-bit integers represented by elements of
F97. Each host assumes a bound m = 5 and agrees a priori to the evaluation
points E = f 1;  2;  3;  4;  5g.
The characteristic polynomials for A and B are:
SA(Z) = (Z   1)  (Z   2)  (Z   9)  (Z   12)  (Z   33);
SB(Z) = (Z   1)  (Z   2)  (Z   9)  (Z   10)
(Z   12)  (Z   28):
The polynomials are evaluated at the locations in E over F97 to give values:
Z =  1  2  3  4  5
SA(Z) 58 19 89 77 4
SB(Z) 15 54 68 77 50
SA(Z)=SB(Z) 75 74 17 1 35
The rational function A(Z)=B(Z) is recovered by solving the system of
equations described in Section 3.2.2. Since the actual symmetric dierence
1If  and m don’t have the same parity, then m   1 is also a bound on m and trivially
has the same parity as .
8

is less then 5, the system of linear equations is singular and we arbitrarily
choose the solution
Z2 + 46Z + 12
Z 3 + 41Z 2 + 91Z + 4 = Z   33
Z2 + 59Z + 86
The zeros of the numerator and denominator are f33g and f10;28g respec-
tively, which are exactly equal to A and B.
3.2.4 Analysis
In order to compute sets A and B, Protocol 2 requires m evaluations of
SA(Z) and SB(Z), along with the sizes of SA and SB. This leads to a
communication complexity of
(b + 1)m + b = (m + 1)(b + 1)   1 (4)
bits. If m is chosen near m = mA + mB, then (4) is close to mb, the
cost of simply sending the missing bitstrings. If A recovers the symmetric
dierence, then an extra mAb  mb bits are required for A to send to B
the elements required for B to compute SA [ SB. Section 4 compares these
results to the information theoretic bounds.
The computational complexity of Protocol 2 has two dominating com-
ponents: the cost of evaluating the characteristic polynomials SA(Z) and
SB(Z) at the evaluation points, and the cost of interpolating and factor-
ing. The former component requires O(jSjm) time, but can be amortized as
O(m) per insertion as noted in Section 3.2.1. The cost of interpolation using
Gaussian elimination to solve the system of linear equations is O(m3) opera-
tions over Fq, as is the expected cost of simple root nding (see Appendix A).
Asymptotically faster algorithms are available, but their practical benet in
this context are unclear.
3.3 Reconciliation without a bound on m
Protocol 2 requires a bound m on the size m of the symmetric dierence.
In the absence of such a bound, a pair of hosts could reconcile their sets by
executing Protocol 2 using progressively larger values for m. Once a su-
ciently large m is reached, the reconciliation can be completed successfully.
Such an approach, however, requires a means for determining whether the
value of m chosen is large enough.
How can one eciently test whether the chosen m is large enough? One
approach would be for hosts A and B to execute Protocol 2 as usual, and
9

check for success at the end. If the interpolation and factorization steps con-
clude successfully, then the reconciling hosts can test whether the recovered
sets are actually equal by, for example, exchanging hashes of those sets. Any
such test must be probabilistic in nature in order to be ecient, as we note
in Section 4.
It is not necessary to do the complete reconstruction of the sets in or-
der to test whether m is large enough. Instead, we can do the necessary
test after the interpolation step of the protocol is completed. Let g(Z) be
the rational function returned by the interpolation step, and let f(Z) be
A(Z)=B(Z). If g(Z) = f(Z), then m must be an upper bound on
m. We thus require an ecient means for testing the equality of rational
functions.
Rational function equality can be tested probabilistically by evaluating
the rational functions in question at a random point and checking whether
those values agree. As follows from Theorem 1, the probability of two dif-
ferent monic rational functions agreeing on a randomly selected point is no
more than  = (D   1)=jEj, where E is the subset of Fq from which the
evaluation points were chosen and D is a bound on the degrees of the ra-
tional functions. In our context, D = jSAj + jSBj serves as a trivial upper
bound on the degree of the rational functions. Assuming sets SA and SB
are sparse and jEj is a signicant fraction of q, the typical value of  will be
small and k will converge to zero quickly in k.
The approach described above requires evaluation points to be chosen
at random, and so the evaluation points would need to be sent in addition
to the values of the characteristic polynomial at those points. In practice, a
pseudo-random number generator can be used to generate evaluation points,
thus reducing the amount of data that needs to be sent.
3.3.1 Minimizing bit complexity
If minimizing the number of transmitted bits is a priority, then evaluations
could be sent individually. B would simply recompute the interpolated
rational function g(Z) every time it receives an evaluation that does not
conrm the previous value of g(Z). When B receives k evaluations in a row
that conrm the previous value of g(Z), then B accepts g(Z) as equal to
f(Z).
The probability that the above protocol terminates with g(Z) 6= f(Z) is
bounded above by mk. To achieve a probability of failure less than , one
therefore needs no more than
k = dlog(=m)e > dlog(=(jSAj + jSBj))e (5)
10

extra evaluation points. As an example, to achieve a condence level of
10 11 when reconciling sets of 64-bit strings whose combined size is less
than 10; 000 would require k = 1 extra evaluations.
Using a value of k chosen according to (5) and a pseudo-random number
generator for choosing evaluation points would result in the transmission of
at most
(b + 2)(m + k) + b
bits, which is close to the communication complexity of Protocol 2 and
the information-theoretic minimum given in Section 4. The communication
complexity is close to that given in (4) when m is chosen exactly equal to
m. The computational complexity of this method is O(m4) operations, since
the interpolation can be repeated as many as m times.
3.3.2 Minimizing round complexity
Sending a single evaluation at a time has the advantage of requiring the
computation and transmission of the minimum number of polynomial eval-
uations. It has the disadvantage, however, of requiring (m + k) rounds of
communication. We can reduce the number of rounds to dlogc(m + k)e
by increasing the total number of evaluations by a factor of c each round.
Then, in the worst case scenario, the number of extra evaluations sent is
(c  1)(m+k). Equation (5) can be used for selecting k in this case as well.
The communications complexity for this approach is bounded above by
(b + 1)c(m + k) + b + dlogc(m + k)e
which is approximately c times the communications complexity of sending
one evaluation at a time. Moreover, for xed c, the computational complex-
ity is O((m+k)3) operations, which is cubic in m, as opposed to quartic for
the one-by-one approach.
4 Information-Theoretic Bounds
The set reconciliation algorithms described in Sections 3 have communi-
cations complexity within a small constant of mb. In this section we will
show that, for sparse sets, mb is close to the best achievable communication
complexity for any set reconciliation protocol.
Let N = jSA \ SBj. Set reconciliation demands that host A discern mB
integers from the 2b   N   mA that it might be missing, and symmetrically
for B. This gives the following information-theoretic lower bound on ^C1,
11

the number of bits that need to be transmitted between A and B assuming
no bound on the number of rounds of communication:
^C1  lg
2b   N   mA
mB


2b   N   mB
mA

: (6)
If m = mA + mB is held constant then this expression is minimized when
mA or mB is zero, as appropriate. This is because, for all n;j;k  0 and
j + k  n, n
j
n   j
k


 n
j + k

;: (7)
Thus,
^C1  lg
2b   N   m
m

: (8)
When 2b is at least twice as large as either host set, then the lower bound
in inequality (8) becomes (b   1   lg m)  m  mb   mlg m. Thus,
^C1
mb  1   lg m
b :
Assuming the sets are sparse, lg m must be signicantly smaller than b, and
so ^C1 is at best within a small fraction of mb.
The bound in (8) presumes that m is known a priori. Without such
knowledge, there is no deterministic algorithm for set reconciliation that
has better than linear communication complexity in the size of the sets. To
see why, note that set reconciliation is strictly more dicult than testing set
equality. As follows from a theorem of Yao [32, Theorem 1], the communi-
cation complexity of set equality is linear in the size of the sets being tested.
It is for this reason that the protocol proposed in Section 3.3 (for the case
where no bound on m is known) is probabilistic.
5 Reed-Solomon codes
Set reconciliation can also be accomplished by the use of error-correcting
codes, as described in Section 2.1. In fact, the information sent by our
algorithm can be understood in terms of the redundancy of a transformed
Reed-Solomon code.
Recall that in Protocol 2 we convert a set S = fx1;x2; x3; ::: ;xng into
a characteristic polynomial S(Z) = (Z   x1)(Z   x2)(Z   x3)    (Z   xn):
12

We then evaluate the polynomial at evaluation points pi to get values
fS(p1); S(p2); S(p3);: :: S(pm)g (9)
for an upper bound m on the number of tolerated dierences with other
sets. These evaluations are transmitted to a reconciling host.
On the other hand, the redundant residue code formulation of Reed-
Solomon codes involves converting a message u = (u1;u2;u3;: ::; uk) 2 Fk
q
into a polynomial u(Z) = Pk
i=1 uiZi 1. In this formulation, the codeword
corresponding to the message u is given by
c = (u(0);u(1);u(2);: :: ;u(q 2));
where  is a primitive root of unity in Fq. The Chinese Remainder Theorem
dictates that u(0) ::: u(k) uniquely determine the message u. Thus, the
redundant part of the codeword is given by
fu(k);u(k+1);u(k+2);: :: u(q 2)g: (10)
If the message u is set to the coecients of the characteristic polynomial
S(Z), the evaluation points pi are set to the appropriate powers of , and
k is set to q   1   m, then Equations (9) and (10) are identical. Thus,
Protocol 2 transmits the redundancy of a Reed-Solomon encoding of the
coecients of a set’s characteristic polynomial.
6 Conclusion
We have examined the problem of reconciling two related sets, stored at
separate hosts, with low communication complexity. We have presented and
analyzed two protocols for set reconciliation, one deterministic for the case
where a bound on the size of the dierence is known, and one probabilistic
for the case where no such bound is known.
The deterministic protocol requires a tight bound on the number of dif-
ferences between reconciling hosts, but it does not require interaction and
can thus be used in broadcast-style applications. The probabilistic protocol
does not require any a priori bound on the number of dierences between
reconciling hosts, but is interactive. The communication complexity of both
protocols is within a small constant of the information theoretic lower bound
for set reconciliation with sparse sets.
We have implemented all these protocols in a variety of settings [3,4,
33, 34] and believe that these protocols can serve as a foundation for a new
breed of scalable synchronization protocols for distributed applications.
13

7 Acknowledgments
We are grateful to Ramin Takloo-Bighash, Edward Reingold, Fred Schnei-
der, Lazar Trachtenberg, and Alexander Vardy for stimulating discussions.
References
[1] M. Satyanarayanan, \Coda: A highly available le system for a
distributed workstation environment," in Proceedings of the Second
IEEE Workshop on Workstation Operating Systems, Pacic Grove, CA,
September 1989.
[2] A.J. Demers, D. H. Greene, C. Hause, W. Irish, and J. Larson, \Epi-
demic algorithms for replicated database maintenance," in Proceed-
ings of the Sixth Annual ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed
Computing, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, August 1987, ACM,
number 6, pp. 1{12.
[3] A. Trachtenberg, D. Starobinski, and S. Agarwal, \Fast PDA synchro-
nization using characteristic polynomial interpolation," Proc. INFO-
COM, June 2002.
[4] D. Starobinski, A. Trachtenberg, and S. Agarwal, \Ecient pda
synchronization," IEEE Trans. on Mobile Computing, vol. 2, no. 1,
January-March 2003.
[5] R.A. Golding, Weak-Consistency Group Communication and Mem-
bership, Ph.D. thesis, UC Santa Cruz, December 1992, Published as
technical report UCSC-CRL-92-52.
[6] R. van Renesse, Y. Minsky, and M. Hayden, \A gossip-style failure
detection service," in Middleware ’98: IFIP International Confer-
ence on Distributed Systems Platforms and Open Distributed Process-
ing, Nigel Davies, Kerry Raymond, and Jochen Seitz, Eds. 1998, pp.
55{70, Springer Verlag.
[7] K. Guo, M. Hayden, R. van Renesse, W. Vogels, and K. P. Birman,
\GSGC: An ecient gossip-style garbage collection scheme for scalable
reliable multicast," Tech. Rep., Cornell University, December 1997.
[8] R. van Renesse, \Scalable and secure resource location," in 33rd Hawaii
International Conference on System Sciences, January 2000.
14

[9] M. Harchol-Balter, T. Leighton, and D. Lewin, \Resource discovery in
distributed networks," in 18th Annual ACM-SIGACT/SIGOPS Sympo-
sium on Principles of Distributed Computing, Atlanta, GA, May 1999.
[10] A. Orlitsky, \Worst-case interactive communication i: Two messages
are almost optimal," IEEE Trans. on Info. Theory, vol. 5, no. 36, pp.
1111{1126, 1990.
[11] A. Orlitsky, Communication Issues in Distributed Computing, Ph.D.
thesis, Stanford University, 1986, Electrical Engineering Department.
[12] K.A.S. Abdel-Ghaar and A.E. Abbadi, \An optimal strategy for com-
paring le copies," IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Sys-
tems, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 87{93, January 1994.
[13] M. Karpovsky, L. Levitin, and A. Trachtenberg, \Data verication and
reconciliation with generalized error-control codes," 39th Annual Aller-
ton Conference on Communication, Control, and Computing, October
2001.
[14] M. Naor, A. Orlitsky, and P. Shor, \Three results on interactive com-
munication," IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 39, no.
5, pp. 1608{1615, September 1993.
[15] A. Orlitsky, \Interactive communication of balanced distributions and
correlated les," SIAM Journal on Discrete Mathematics, vol. 6, no. 4,
pp. 548{564, November 1993.
[16] N. Alon and A. Orlitsky, \Source coding and graphs entropies," IEEE
Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 42, no. 5, pp. 1329{1339,
September 1996.
[17] H.S. Witsenhausen, \The zero-error side information problem and chro-
matic numbers," IEEE Trans. on Info. Theory, vol. 22, no. 5, Septem-
ber 1976.
[18] R. J. Lipton, \Ecient checking of computations," STACS, pp. 207{
215, 1990.
[19] M. Blum and S. Kannan, \Designing programs that check their work,"
Journal of the ACM, vol. 42, no. 1, pp. 269{291, 1995.
[20] J. Schwartz, \Fast probabilistic algorithms for verication of polyno-
mial identities," Journal of the ACM, vol. 27, pp. 701{717, 1980.
15

[21] E. Kaltofen and B. M. Trager, \Computing with polynomials given by
black boxes for their evaluations: Greatest common divisors, factoriza-
tion, separation of numerators and denominators," Journal of Symbolic
Computation, vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 300{320 (or 301{320??), 1990.
[22] B. H. Bloom, \Space/time trade-os in hash coding with allowable
errors," Communications of the ACM, vol. 13, no. 7, pp. 422{426, July
1970.
[23] V.I. Levensten, \Binary codes capable of correcting spurious insertions
and deletions of ones," Problems of Information Transmission, vol. 1,
no. 1, pp. 8{17, 1965.
[24] V.I. Levensten, \Ecient reconstruction of sequences," IEEE Trans.
on Info. Theory, vol. 47, pp. 2{22, January 2001.
[25] D. Barbara and R.J. Lipton, \A class of randomized strategies for
low-cost comparison of le copies," IEEE Transactions on Parallel
Distributed Systems, pp. 160{170, April 1991.
[26] J.J. Metzner and E.J. Kapturowski, \A general decoding technique
applicable to replicated le disagreement location and concatenated
code decoding," IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 36,
pp. 911{917, July 1990.
[27] G. Cormode, M. Paterson, S.C. S.ahinhalp, and U. Vishkin, \Commu-
nication complexity of document exchange," ACM-SIAM Symposium
on Discrete Algorithms, January 2000.
[28] A. Tridgell, Ecient algorithms for sorting and synchronization, Ph.D.
thesis, The Australian National University, 2000.
[29] M. Ajtai, R. Burns, R. Fagin, D. D. E. Long, and L. Stockmeyer,
\Compactly encoding unstructured inputs with dierential compres-
sion," Journal of the ACM, vol. 49, no. 3, pp. 289{317, May 2002.
[30] R.E. Zippel, Eective Polynomial Computation, Kluwer Academic
Press, Boston, 1993.
[31] J. Stoer and R. Bulirsch, Introduction to Numerical Analysis, Springer-
Verlag, New York, 2nd edition, 1993.
[32] A. C. Yao, \Some complexity questions related to distributive comput-
ing," in Proceedings of the 11th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of
Computing, 1979, pp. 209{213.
16

[33] Y. Minsky and A. Trachtenberg, \Practical set reconciliation," Tech.
Rep., Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Boston Uni-
versity, 2002, Technical Report BU-ECE-2002-01.
[34] S. Agarwal, D. Starobinski, and A. Trachtenberg, \On the scalability
of data synchronization protocols for PDAs and mobile devices," IEEE
Network, vol. 16, no. 4, July 2002.
[35] E. Kaltofen and V. Shoup, \Subquadratic-time factoring of polynomi-
als over nite elds," in 27th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of
Computing, 1995, vol. 9, pp. 398{406.
[36] V. Shoup, \A new polynomial factorization algorithm and its imple-
mentation," Journal of Symbolic Computation, vol. 20, pp. 363{397,
1995.
A Root Finding of Polynomials
Assume we are given a polynomial f(Z) of degree m over a nite eld Fq.
This appendix briey shows how to determine if all the zeros of f(Z) are
distinct and lie in Fq and, if so, how to nd them using classical algorithms
that require an expected O(m3 lg q) eld operations. More sophisticated
algorithms improve the asymptotic complexity to as low as O(m1:82 lg q) [35],
although their basic structure is similar to that presented here and their
practical benets are not clear. The techniques described here are based
on well known results (see for instance, [30,36]) and are included here for
completeness.
The particular type of root nding needed by the set reconciliation pro-
tocols involves three steps. First, determine if f(Z) is square free. Second,
verify that all irreducible factors of f(Z) are linear. And nally, nd the
linear factors of f(Z).
We can determine if f(Z) is square-free by computing the GCD (great-
est common divisor) of f(Z) and its derivative f 0(Z) using the Euclidean
algorithm in O(m2) eld operations. To verify that f(Z) is the produce
of m linear factors, we simply verify that f(Z) = GCD(f(Z); Zq   Z), the
latter term being the product of all monic linear polynomials over Fq. This
verication can be completed in O(m2 log q) time by using repeated squaring
(mod f(Z)), giving an overall verication time of O(m2 log q).
Finally, we nd the linear factors of f(Z) using probabilistic techniques.
We consider two dierent cases for the eld Fq (corresponding to the possible
17

choices for use in our set-reconciliation protocols): one where q is a prime
and the other where q = 2b. When q is a prime, note that the elements of
Fq are zeros of
Zq   Z = (Z
q 1
2 + 1)  Z  (Z
q 1
2   1):
So, almost half of the elements of Fq are zeros of R(Z) = Z
q 1
2   1.
A polynomial with similar properties can also be constructed for the eld
F2b:
R(Z) = Z2b 1
+ Z2b 2
+    + Z4 + Z 2 + Z:
We then have that
R(Z)  (R(Z) + 1) = R(Z)2 + R(Z);
= Z 2b
+ Z2b 1
+    + Z 2 + R(Z);
= Z 2b
+ Z:
So, all the elements of F2b are zeros of R(Z)  (R(Z) + 1), and each element
is either a zero of R(Z) or of R(Z) + 1.
To determine the zeros of f(Z), we chose a random element of a 2 Fq
and compute GCD(f(Z),R(Z - a)), which will have almost half the degree of
f(Z). Applying this technique recursively on the two factors of f(Z), with
dierent values for a will further split the polynomial, ultimately into linear
factors. In total, the expected number of GCDs required will be O(d).
18