MeritRank: Sybil Tolerant Reputation for
Merit-based Tokenomics*
Bulat Nasrulin, Georgy Ishmaev, Johan Pouwelse
Delft University of Technology
{b.nasrulin, g.ishmaev, j.a.pouwelse,}@tudelft.nl
Abstract—Decentralized reputation systems are emerging as
promising mechanisms to enhance the effectiveness of token-
based economies. Unlike traditional monetary incentives, these
systems reward participants based on the actual value of their
contributions to the network. However, the advantages and
challenges associated with such systems remain largely unex-
plored. In this work, we investigate the inherent trade-offs in
designing a decentralized reputation system that is simultane-
ously generalizable, trustless, and Sybil-resistant. Specifically,
“generalizable” means that the system can assess various types of
contributions across different contexts, “trustless” indicates that
it functions without the need for a central authority to oversee
reputations, and “Sybil-resistant” refers to its ability to withstand
manipulations by fake identities, i.e., Sybil attacks.
We propose M ERIT RANK, a Sybil-tolerant reputation system
based on feedback aggregation from participants. Instead of
entirely preventing Sybil attacks, our approach effectively limits
the benefits that attackers can gain from such strategies. This
is achieved by reducing the perceived value of the attacker’s
and Sybil nodes’ contributions through the application of decay
mechanisms—specifically, transitivity decay, connectivity decay,
and epoch decay. Using a dataset of participant interactions in
MakerDAO, we conducted experiments to demonstrate the Sybil
tolerance of M ERIT RANK.
I. I NTRODUCTION
Reputation mechanisms in blockchain applications provide
numerous desirable properties as system components. These
mechanisms can be employed at various layers of blockchain
systems. At the infrastructure level, anyone can act as a relay
node, competing based on reputation for how quickly and
neutrally they distribute transactions [1]. At the protocol layer,
Delegated Proof-of-Stake (DPoS) [2] utilizes mechanisms to
detect and punish undesirable behaviors, such as double voting
on blocks [3]. At the application layer, Decentralized Au-
tonomous Organizations (DAOs) [4]–[7] employ rewards for
participants based on their contributions.
Token-based incentives have emerged as prominent mecha-
nisms in blockchain protocols, addressing several incentiviza-
tion issues in peer-to-peer networks, such as ensuring network
liveness, enhancing network security, and supporting open-
source software maintenance. This exploration of incentives
has given rise to a new subfield within blockchain design, often
referred to as tokenomics. Consequently, these mechanisms are
integral to most significant blockchain applications, utilized at
various abstraction levels [8].
*pre-print BRAINS conference, Paris, September 27-30, 2022
However, the limitations of traditional token-based incen-
tives are increasingly evident through empirical evidence.
First, misalignment of incentives often occurs, where mon-
etary rewards can lead to conflicts among participants within
complex systems [9], [10]. These conflicts arise because such
rewards do not always reflect the actual value of contribu-
tions, fostering self-interested behaviors that can undermine
collective goals. Second, governance models relying solely on
monetary incentives lack the robustness necessary for effective
decentralized decision-making [11]. Lastly, these incentives
tend to disproportionately benefit larger stakeholders, risking
the re-centralization of decentralized networks [12].
An alternative approach is to reward participants based on
their contributions or merits through a reputation system [13].
Examples of contributions include computational work, proof
of bandwidth, proof of storage, participation in DAO gov-
ernance forums, open-source code development, and discus-
sions in chat messengers. DAOs often establish treasuries to
incentivize contributions by periodically rewarding the most
active participants with tokens. However, this approach faces
significant challenges due to Sybil attacks [14], [15], where
attackers use multiple fake identities to manipulate reputations
and deplete the treasury. Such attacks are a major obstacle to
deploying advanced reputation systems intended to surpass the
simplistic economic models often found in current tokenomics
discussions [16], [17].
While some previous work has proposed Sybil-resistant
reputation algorithms [18]–[20], these solutions only partially
mitigate Sybil attacks and remain vulnerable to reputation
manipulation. First, Sybil identities are often indistinguishable
from legitimate identities [21], making many Sybil-detection
algorithms ineffective. Second, achieving full Sybil resistance
is challenging because Sybil identities can still receive positive
feedback from legitimate participants. This positive feedback
allows Sybil identities to blend in and accumulate reputation,
thereby making Sybil attacks beneficial. Such attacks are
prevalent in social networks where interactions and feedback
can be easily manipulated [22].
We observe that Sybil attacks become advantageous when
the attacker makes only minimal contributions, yet both the
attacker and their Sybil identities receive positive reputations
and token rewards. This dynamic can undermine the integrity
of reputation systems.
Rather than trying to fully prevent Sybil attacks or detect
Sybil identities, our approach focuses on limiting the benefits
arXiv:2207.09950v2  [cs.DC]  21 Apr 2025

that attackers can gain from such attacks, thereby making them
less attractive and practical. To achieve this, we propose MER-
ITRANK, a Sybil-tolerant, aggregated feedback reputations
compatible with token-based incentive systems. M ERIT RANK
achieves Sybil-Tolerance by bounding the benefit of the attack
through the use of personalized reputation and decay heuristics
to reduce the perceived value of attacker’s contributions.
In MeritRank, we introduce and test three types of de-
cay mechanisms, building upon findings from previous re-
search [20], [23], to enhance the resilience of reputation
systems against Sybil attacks. A seed node is a trusted start-
ing point from which reputations are calculated, serving as
a reference for evaluating other nodes’ contributions. The
three decays are transitivity decay , connectivity decay , and
epoch decay . Transitivity decay reduces the perceived value
of contributions based on their distance from the seed node.
Connectivity decay lowers the value of contributions from
nodes that rely on a single path or a limited set of connections
to the seed node, such as those connected only through bridges.
Epoch decay decreases the value of older contributions. These
mechanisms reduce the effectiveness of Sybil attacks, making
them less attractive. However, this comes at a cost: honest
participants might receive lower reputations due to the decay
of their perceived contributions. Despite this drawback, we
will see that the improved resilience of the system justifies
the trade-off.
This chapter makes both theoretical and practical contribu-
tions, which are as follows:
• We analyze and formulate the general trade-offs between
desirable properties of reputation in decentralized settings
by presenting a decentralized reputation trilemma in
Section II.
• We present the formalization of M ERIT RANK, along
with three types of decay mechanisms—transitivity de-
cay, connectivity decay, and epoch decay—designed to
achieve tolerance against Sybil attacks in Section V. We
evaluate MERIT RANK using a dataset spanning over 150
weeks of user interactions within the leading decentral-
ized autonomous organization, MakerDAO, as discussed
in Section VI. Our experiments demonstrate that transi-
tivity decay and connectivity decay significantly enhance
the Sybil tolerance of reputation algorithms. However, we
observe that the popular heuristic, epoch decay, used in
other reputation mechanisms [7], does not improve Sybil
tolerance.
II. B ACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
Reputation systems in decentralized environments have been
proposed for various applications, and as general models in
peer-to-peer systems [23]–[28]. Accordingly, the limitations of
these solutions are relatively well-understood. Some of these
limitations include scalability [27], contextual accuracy [26],
reliance on partially trusted setups [26], [27], vulnerability to
misreporting attacks [29]–[33], and privacy trade-offs [28].
However, there is an identifiable research gap regarding the
general trade-offs inherent to any reputation system imple-
Figure 1: The “Decentralized Reputation Trilemma” illustrates
the irreconcilability of three desirable properties: General-
izable, Sybil-resistant, and Trustless. The triangle’s edges
represent approaches that sacrifice one property: Trusted Or-
acles sacrifice Trustlessness, Cryptographic Proofs sacrifice
Generalizability, and Feedback Aggregation sacrifices Sybil
resistance.
mented in decentralized environments. We are able to identify
only a small number of surveys on reputation solutions in
decentralized settings [26], [27], with limited comparative
trade-off analysis [28]. The absence of engineering research
on reputation in the context of tokenomics and DAOs can be
attributed to the novelty of these problems [34], which have
only recently gained attention in the academic and engineering
communities.
A. Decentralized Reputation Trilemma
We formulate the inherent trade-offs in decentralized repu-
tation systems as a conjecture on the irreconcilability of three
desirable properties. This trilemma is depicted in Figure 1.
A reputation system cannot simultaneously embody all three
attributes: Generalizability, Sybil resistance, and Trustlessness.
Generalizability refers to the system’s ability to evaluate
and fairly assess a wide variety of contributions, including
both technical and human-centric activities. This flexibility
allows the system to adapt to different types of participant
roles and behaviors, without being limited to specific, easily
measurable tasks. A generalizable system must also scale
efficiently, maintaining performance as the network grows,
while providing accurate, context-aware reputation scores that
account for the nuances of each contribution.
A fully Sybil-resistant system prevents attackers from ma-
nipulating reputation metrics through the creation and control
of multiple fake identities [14]. This is crucial for maintaining
the integrity of the reputation system, as it ensures that
reputation scores genuinely reflect legitimate contributions.
The Trustless property means that the system’s reputation
accounting and evaluation processes do not rely on any single
trusted entity. Instead, it leverages decentralized protocols
and mechanisms to ensure that all operations are transparent,
verifiable, and resistant to tampering or biased influence. This
decentralization enhances the system’s security and fairness

by minimizing the risk of corruption or failure associated with
relying on trusted intermediaries.
These three properties form a trilemma because optimizing
for two typically compromises the third. To better understand
how different approaches navigate these trade-offs, we exam-
ine three primary methods used in decentralized reputation
systems: Trusted Oracles, Cryptographic Proofs, and Feedback
Aggregation.
Trusted Oracles. This method employs trusted oracles to
monitor and calculate reputation scores, relying on predefined
reputation functions and participant actions as inputs. Such a
system is inherently generalizable, as oracles can process var-
ious inputs to determine reputation scores [27]. The challenge
of Sybil resistance is managed by entrusting oracles with the
task of detecting and verifying the identities of participants,
thereby preventing Sybil attacks [35]. However, this reliance
on oracles compromises the trustless nature of the system.
Participants must trust the oracles to accurately process in-
puts and honestly calculate reputation scores. Moreover, the
dependence on oracles introduces potential points of failure
that adversaries could exploit, as observed with price oracles
in decentralized finance systems [36].
Efforts to incorporate trustless characteristics within oracles
have led to the creation of peer prediction markets. In these
systems, participants estimate and report outcomes, with their
rewards determined by how well their reports align with
those of others. This method is designed to be self-regulating
and decentralized, reducing reliance on a single authoritative
oracle. However, in scenarios where quick or highly spe-
cialized assessments are needed, the peer prediction method
might struggle to provide accurate and timely evaluations, thus
limiting its generalizability [37].
Cryptographic Proofs . With this approach, peers docu-
ment their own and others’ reputation scores by generating
cryptographic proofs of contributions, which are then dissem-
inated across the network. Upon validation of these proofs,
participants adjust their reputation scores accordingly. The
requirement for verifiable proof of contribution inherently
reduces the feasibility of Sybil attacks, as each entity must
substantiate its contributions through cryptographic evidence.
This method also achieves trustlessness, as it eliminates the
need for a singular authoritative body overseeing reputation
accounting.
However, the applicability of cryptographic proofs to rep-
utation systems faces significant constraints, particularly re-
garding generalizability. While certain contributions—such as
computational work, proof of bandwidth, or proof of stor-
age—are well-suited for cryptographic validation, this frame-
work struggles to accommodate a broader spectrum of collab-
orative efforts and human-centric contributions. Many types of
cooperative work cannot be easily verified cryptographically,
limiting the range of activities that can be effectively accounted
for in such a system. Moreover, even when cryptographic
proofing is conceptually applicable, its practical implemen-
tation faces challenges related to scalability. The extensive
overhead required for generating, distributing, and validating
cryptographic proofs can significantly strain system resources,
impacting both scalability and efficiency [38].
Feedback Aggregation calculates an individual’s reputation
by collecting feedback directly from other participants on
the perceived value of that individual’s contributions. The
system then aggregates this feedback to determine the overall
reputation score. This method is generalizable and trustless.
By facilitating peer-to-peer feedback, the system can adapt to
diverse application-specific scenarios, allowing participants to
provide nuanced, context-specific feedback on a wide array
of interactions or contributions. This adaptability makes it
exceptionally suitable for environments where direct peer eval-
uation is possible and relevant. Additionally, unlike approaches
reliant on cryptographic proofs, feedback aggregation does not
incur significant overhead costs, making it a more resource-
efficient option.
However, this method is susceptible to manipulation, par-
ticularly through Sybil attacks. In such attacks, a malicious
entity creates multiple fake identities to flood the system with
false feedback or fraudulent contributions, thereby distorting
the reputation scores [14].
Previous research has proposed various approaches to Sybil-
resistant reputation systems. For instance, EigenTrust [39] uses
a global trust value computed through iterative aggregation of
local trust scores but is susceptible to Sybil attacks if attackers
can accumulate sufficient local trust. SybilGuard [40] and
SybilLimit [41] leverage social network structures to limit the
number of Sybil nodes accepted but rely on the assumption
that the social graph is fast-mixing, which may not hold in all
cases.
B. Our Approach to Solve the Reputation Trilemma
Observations based on the reputation trilemma necessitate a
solution for reputation systems in decentralized environments
that does not completely sacrifice one of the corners of this
triangle. Because of the lack of generalizability of Crypto-
graphic Proofs and the trust assumptions inherent in Trusted
Oracles, the Feedback Aggregation approach emerges as a
viable direction. This is contingent on our ability to improve
the resistance of reputation aggregation functions to Sybil
attacks.
A common way to achieve Sybil resistance is to emulate a
closed system trying to achieve Sybil prevention. For exam-
ple, by requiring participants to undergo identity verification
processes, the system can limit the creation of fake identities.
However, this approach often conflicts with the principles of
privacy and decentralization inherent in open systems. In the
context of open, permissionless systems, strict Sybil resistance
is not entirely achievable [21]. An alternative approach to Sybil
resistance is based on Sybil detection [42] and the subsequent
exclusion of Sybils from the system. The effectiveness of
Sybil detection is generally constrained by several factors. In
open, decentralized, and pseudonymous networks, identities
are easily created, and there is no reliable way to link
digital identities to unique real-world entities. This makes it
inherently challenging to distinguish between legitimate users

Figure 2: Merit-Based Tokenomics system model.
and Sybil identities. Attackers can create multiple identities
that behave indistinguishably from honest nodes, making
detection algorithms ineffective [21]. Additionally, imposing
strict verification measures conflicts with the principles of
decentralization and user privacy.
Sybil tolerance [31] focuses on minimizing the impact of
Sybil identities rather than attempting to identify and remove
them. By accepting that some Sybil identities may infiltrate
the system, the focus shifts to reducing the damage they can
cause. This can be achieved by implementing mechanisms
that restrict the influence any single participant or group of
participants can exert on the reputation system. Sybil tolerance
is achieved by limiting the relative benefit that an attacker
can gain through the use of Sybils. Specifically, a reputation
system is considered Sybil-tolerant if, even as an attacker
creates additional Sybil identities, the cumulative influence of
these identities on the reputation scores remains limited.
One major limitation of Feedback Aggregation systems is
their reliance on heuristic methods to determine the influence
of participants, which can result in inaccurate reputation
assessments. If the heuristics are too strict, legitimate users
may be unfairly penalized, reducing the system’s fairness
and overall effectiveness. Conversely, if the heuristics are too
lenient, they may fail to sufficiently limit the influence of
Sybil identities, allowing attackers to cause significant harm.
Despite these inherent challenges and limitations, we adopt
the Feedback Aggregation approach. Our goal is to strike a
balance between overly strict and overly lenient heuristics,
ensuring fairness for legitimate users while maintaining re-
silience against Sybil attacks.
III. M ERIT-BASED TOKENOMICS
In this section, we present a general system model for
merit-based tokenomics. This model describes a reward system
for the participants of a generic DAO, where peers provide
feedback to each other resulting in a reputation ranking that
can be used to distribute token rewards from a DAO treasury
proportionally to accrued reputation. We acknowledge that
reputation mechanisms in distributed systems face challenges,
such as incompleteness of information about peer interactions
and peer discovery. Therefore, our design accommodates these
limitations by functioning effectively with only partial infor-
mation.
The model is illustrated in Figure 2 and includes four
mechanisms. The accounting mechanism records locally com-
puted or recorded feedback in a personal ledger. The gossip
Figure 3: Example of a feedback graph. Edge weights repre-
sent the total feedback assigned by a participant about another
participant.
mechanism distributes this information to peers, resulting in
the collection of indirect feedback (i.e., feedback gathered
from other participants) in the form of a feedback graph.
This graph is used by the reputation mechanism to calculate
participants’ reputations. Finally, the allocation mechanism
allocates rewards based on reputation rankings. This in turn
might result in an update in the local ledger. The model is
dynamic and operates in epochs, with each epoch representing
a discrete time step during which changes to the network
structure occur, encompassing one complete iteration of the
system’s feedback loop. We will now discuss each mechanism
in detail.
A. Accounting Mechanism
We assume that peers might interact through various ac-
tivities, such as making direct contributions, creating content,
participating in discussions, or engaging in collaborative tasks.
In response to these interactions, peers provide feedback,
which can take the form of evaluations, ratings, or other
reactions. This feedback is represented as a directed, weighted
graph, denoted as G = ( V,E,w ), and referred to as the
feedback graph . In this graph, each node represents a peer
in the network, while each directed edge indicates feedback
provided from one peer to another. The weight of an edge,
defined by the function w : V × V → R≥0, assigns a
non-negative value that quantifies the cumulative feedback
assigned.
An example of a feedback graph is shown in Figure 3,
where the weights on the edges represent feedback quantified
in arbitrary units. Our model is agnostic to the method of
feedback generation, which can range from simple social
reactions—such as likes, votes, or endorsements—to more
complex algorithms that assign scores based on contributions.
For instance, a “thumbs up” can be directly translated into a
single unit, while systems like SourceCred [6] compute scores
for actions such as code commits or issue resolutions based on
predefined metrics. Similarly, feedback can come from explicit
responses (e.g., ratings or endorsements) or from implicit
signals (e.g., engagement levels or contribution frequency) as
seen in platforms like Discourse [43] and GitHub [44]. In both
cases, the resulting value is recorded in the personal ledger of
the observing peer.

B. Gossip Mechanism
Peers exchange and propagate updates to the feedback graph
using a peer-to-peer gossip protocol [45]. Through this mech-
anism, feedback data recorded in each peer’s personal ledger
is periodically shared across the network, allowing reputation
data to evolve based on recent interactions. Each peer main-
tains its own subjective view of the global feedback graph,
denoted as Gi = (Vi,Ei,wi), where Vi and Ei represent the
known nodes and feedback links, and wi : Vi×Vi→ R≥0
assigns weights based on the latest received data.
Due to network delays or incomplete data propagation, the
local graphGi may differ from the views of other peers. When
a peer receives new updates, such as the addition of a new edge
or a change in the weight of an existing edge, it updates its
local view and records this information in its personal ledger.
As peers continue to share more data, these subjective graphs
gradually converge, resulting in a more consistent view of the
network.
C. Reputation Mechanism
We assume that peers can discover the feedback graph
through mechanisms such as a gossip protocol. The reputation
data evolves with time and reflects the latest interactions
by utilizing a peer-to-peer gossip protocol [45]. Specifically,
each peer distributes the latest locally known weights in the
feedback graph. Using this information, each peer i constructs
its subjective feedback graph Gi = (Vi,Ei,wi). Every time a
peer receives a new edge or a weight update from the network,
it records this in its personal ledger and updates its subjective
feedback graph Gi.
A reputation mechanism calculates and assigns reputation
scores to every node in the subjective feedback graph. The
reputation score reflects the level of contributions made by a
node relative to others.
Definition III.1 (Reputation Score) . A reputation score
Ri(Gi,j ) is a non-negative value calculated and assigned to
node j by the reputation mechanism of node i, given the
subjective feedback graph Gi:
Ri(Gi,j )∈ R≥0 ∀j∈Vi\{i}
D. Allocation Mechanism
Reputation scores are used as inputs for an allocation
mechanism that determines how rewards are distributed among
a set of nodes using an allocation policy. Specifically we
assume some seed node i, which is also part of V . The seed
node uses its local reputation scores to distribute rewards to
other nodes according to their reputations at the end of each
epoch.
Definition III.2 (Allocation score) . An allocation score
Ai(Gi,j ) is a non-negative value calculated and assigned to
node j by the allocation mechanism of node i, based on the
subjective feedback graphGi and reputation scores Ri(Gi,j ):
Ai(Ri(Gi,j ),j )∈ R≥0 ∀j∈Vi\{i}
We do not make any specific assumptions about the alloca-
tion mechanisms but assume that nodes with higher reputation
scores are more likely to receive rewards or receive larger
rewards. The allocation of rewards depends on the specific
seed node. If there are multiple seed nodes, a node will receive
rewards separately from each seed node, and the total rewards
will be the sum of these individual allocations.
One example of an allocation mechanism is winner-takes-
all, where the node with the highest reputation receives
all the rewards. Another popular example is the quadratic
distribution [17], where rewards are distributed such that each
node receives a portion of the total reward pool proportional to
the square root of its reputation score. This ensures that while
nodes with higher reputations receive more significant rewards,
the rate of increase in rewards diminishes as reputations grow,
preventing disproportionate advantages.
Different allocation mechanisms will have different applica-
tions and contexts where they are most effective. However, a
detailed discussion on the specific properties and implications
of various allocation policies is beyond the scope of this work.
IV. S YBIL ATTACK AND SYBIL TOLERANCE
In this section, we introduce the model for a Sybil attack on
merit-based tokenomics, as presented in the previous section.
The attacker executes the Sybil attack to inflate its reputation
and subsequently gain disproportionately more rewards. We
then discuss various strategies that attackers can employ
to maximize the effectiveness of Sybil attacks. Finally, we
present a model for Sybil tolerance, which quantifies how
well a reputation mechanism can withstand a Sybil attack.
We conclude by reporting on the most beneficial Sybil attack
strategies against the most commonly used reputation mecha-
nisms.
A. Sybil Attack
We model a Sybil attack as strategic, meaning the attacker
first infiltrates into the system pretending to be an honest node,
receiving legitimate feedback from other honest nodes, and
then executes a Sybil attack. The attacker achieves this by
creating fake identities (Sybil nodes) and fake edges connect-
ing these identities to each other (Sybil edges). The weights
of the Sybil edges can be arbitrary. We refer to the created
subgraph consisting of Sybil nodes and edges as Sybil region.
We assume the attacker knows the reputation and allocation
mechanisms being used and can execute an optimal attack.
Definition IV .1 (Sybil Attack) . Given the feedback graph
G = (V,E,w ), an attacker s0 performs a Sybil attack σS
by introducing the following elements to the feedback graph:
• A set of Sybil nodes S ={s1,...,s m}∪{ s0}, each of
which is indistinguishable from an honest node by other
nodes.
• A set of Sybil edges ES⊂ S×S with arbitrary edge
weights wS :S×S→ R≥0.
• A set of attack edges Ea⊂ V×S with weights wa :
V×S→ R≥0.

After an attack has been carried out, we obtain a modified
feedback graph, denoted by G′ := (V∪S,E∪ES∪Ea,w∪
wS∪wa). We denote by G′′ := (V∪S,E∪Ea,w∪wa) the
modified feedback graph with Sybil edges removed.
Figure 4 illustrates an example of a Sybil attack. The attack
has three Sybil nodes {s0,s 1,s 2}. The attacker establishes
Sybil edges between s0, s1, and s2 with arbitrarily high
weights, as these edges can be freely generated by the attacker
without any constraints. In contrast, attack edges typically
require the attacker to make some real contributions to re-
ceive feedback from honest reputable nodes. To infiltrate the
network, the attacker using identities of s0 and s2 performs
some contribution to receive feedback from some highly
reputable nodes i and k in V , resulting in the creation of
attack edges (i,s 0) and (k,s 2). As a result of this attack, the
Sybil node s1 receives positive reputation. The created cycle
(s0,s 1), (s1,s 2), (s2,s 0) with high weights further increases
the reputation of each Sybil node, thereby inflating their
reputation scores and allowing them to disproportionately
benefit during the allocation phase.
B. Sybil Attack Strategies
Naive approaches to reputation systems that rely on basic
global centrality measures, such as degree centrality, are
highly susceptible to manipulation. These approaches assign
importance based on the number of direct connections a node
has, making it easy for an attacker to inflate their reputation
simply by creating Sybil nodes and edges that connect them to
the attacker node. This artificially increases the attacker node’s
degree centrality, thereby unfairly boosting its reputation.
More complex global centrality measures, such as
(weighted) PageRank, are also vulnerable to Sybil attacks [29].
An attacker can create a dense Sybil region, effectively in-
creasing the PageRank of Sybil nodes, even if the Sybil nodes
themselves have low individual ranks. Moreover, an attacker
can perform successful Sybil attacks without the need to create
any attack edges.
We consider more sophisticated attack that require the
creation of attack edges. Typically, an attacker infiltrates the
system by interacting with honest nodes, gradually collecting
reputation through before executing a Sybil attack. Once
sufficient reputation is gained, the Sybil attack is launched,
and some inflated reputation is gained. To further amplify
the effect, we also consider a repeated Sybil attack , where
the attacker introduces a fresh batch of Sybil nodes in every
epoch. This strategy compounds the attack’s impact over time,
as each new set of Sybil nodes reinforces the influence of the
malicious node through an expanding web of attack edges.
Personalized reputation mechanisms [20] inherently limit
the scope of Sybil attacks by tying reputation to connectivity
with seed nodes. A node can only gain a positive reputation if
it is connected to a seed node through some path or directly. In
systems with multiple seed nodes the challenge for attackers
increases significantly. To inflate the reputation of a malicious
node in such systems, the attacker must establish paths to
each relevant seed node. If no such paths are established,
the malicious node’s reputation score remains zero, effectively
neutralizing the potential for Sybil attacks.
We now present three Sybil attack strategies, which, when
combined, cover all Sybil attack strategies as shown in the pre-
vious works [23]. These strategies are illustrated in Figure 5.
Definition IV .2(Sybil Attack Strategies). An attacker nodes0
initially creates an attack edge (i,s 0) with some node i∈V
by making a contribution and receiving a feedback from node
i. Subsequently, it creates m Sybil identities and Sybil edges,
resulting in the modified feedback graph G′(m). The Sybil
edges are created in one of the following ways:
• Cycle attack. The attacker nodes0 creates both incoming
and outgoing edges with each other Sybil node, forming
edges (s0,sk) and (sk,s 0) for k∈{ 1,...,m }.
• Serial attack . The attacker node s0 creates a linear
sequence of edges (s0,s 1), and (sk,sk+1) for k ∈
{1,...,m − 1}.
• Parallel attack . The attacker node s0 creates directed
outgoing edges to each other Sybil node, forming edges
(s0,sk) for k∈{ 1,...,m }.
We refer to the modified feedback graph G′(m) as the graph
obtained after a Sybil attack with exactly m Sybil nodes and
the corresponding Sybil edges added according to one of the
attack strategies defined above.
C. Sybil Tolerance
A beneficial Sybil attack occurs when an attacker success-
fully inflates the reputation of Sybil nodes, allowing them to
receive a disproportionate share of rewards. The attacker is
allowed to create an arbitrary number of Sybil identities and
establish fake edges between them to boost their reputation
within the Sybil network. However, any edge between honest
nodes in V and Sybils in S must represent a real transaction.
This means that the attacker must make genuine contributions
to receive feedback from honest nodes, thereby creating le-
gitimate directed edges connecting the honest network to the
Sybil identities. To maximize their gains, the attacker might
target highly reputable nodes to create these legitimate attack
edges, as feedback from such nodes would significantly boost
the reputation of the connected Sybil nodes.
We distinguish between two types of reputations in this con-
text: deserved and inflated. The deserved reputation represents
the value earned through legitimate feedback provided by hon-
est nodes. In contrast, the inflated reputation includes both the
deserved reputation and any additional reputation artificially
increased through fake edges between Sybil identities. The
goal of the attacker is to inflate the reputation as much as
possible, maximizing the cumulative reputation of the Sybil
nodes through these fake edges.
Definition IV .3a (Inflated Reputation) Given an arbitrary
seed node i∈ V , the inflated reputation ω+(σS) for a Sybil
attack σS is the cumulative reputation score gained by the

(a) The modified graph G′ after the attack.
 (b) The modified graph G′′ with Sybil edges removed.
Figure 4: An example of a Sybil attack on graph G = (V ={k,i,...},E ={(k,i ), (i,k ),...},w ) with Sybil nodes S =
{s0,s 1,s 2}, two attack edges Ea ={(i,s 0), (k,s 2)} and Sybil edges ES ={(s0,s 1), (s1,s 2), (s2,s 0)}.
(a) Cycle attack
 (b) Serial attack
 (c) Parallel attack
Figure 5: Sybil attack strategies. A beneficial Sybil attack is a combination of these three strategies.
Sybil nodes in S calculated by i over the modified feedback
graph G′:
ω+(σS) =
X
s∈S
Ri(G′
i,s )
Definition IV .3b (Deserved Reputation) Given an arbitrary
seed node i∈ V , the deserved reputation ω(σS) for a Sybil
attack σS is the cumulative reputation score gained by the
Sybil nodes in S calculated by i over the modified feedback
graph G′′ with the Sybil edges removed:
ω(σS) =
X
s∈S
Ri(G′′
i,s )
Definition IV .3c (Attacker’s Gain) The attacker’s gain of a
Sybil attack given ω(σS) > 0 is defined as the ratio of the
inflated and deserved reputation:
Gain(σS) = ω+(σS)
ω(σS)
Sybil tolerance is modeled as an upper bound on the
attacker’s gain for a Sybil attack, denoted asσS, on a feedback
graph G. We formally define a Sybil-Tolerant reputation
mechanism as follows:
Definition IV .4(Sybil Tolerance). A reputation mechanism is
Sybil-Tolerant if, for every Sybil attack, the attacker’s gain is
bounded by some constant c≥ 1 for arbitrarily large sets S
of Sybil nodes with any arrangement of Sybil edges, that is,
if
lim
|S|→∞
ω+(σS)
ω(σS) ≤c
In theory, a Sybil-resistant mechanism is characterized by
having c = 1, meaning the attacker cannot gain any inflated
reputation through Sybil identities and can only earn what is
deserved from feedback provided by honest nodes. However,
in practice, achieving full Sybil resistance (c = 1) in open,
decentralized systems is extremely challenging due to the ease
of creating pseudonymous identities and the potential for Sybil
nodes to receive legitimate feedback from honest participants.
Therefore, while mechanisms like restricting nodes to self-
assessments can theoretically achieve c = 1 , they severely
limit the utility of the reputation system by ignoring valuable
indirect feedback and collaboration.A notable example of this
type of restrictive mechanism is the use of direct reciprocity
strategies, such as Tit-for-Tat [13]. In the Tit-for-Tat strategy,
nodes reciprocate interactions, meaning they only provide
positive feedback to nodes that have previously contributed
to them in some way. This approach, widely known from its
use in file-sharing protocols like BitTorrent [46], ensures that
nodes cooperate only if they receive direct value from the
interaction.
On the other hand, if the feedback from all peers is taken
into account, Sybil tolerance is not achievable, as reported
by Seuken and Parkes [33]. The attacker’s gain from a Sybil
attack can become unbounded by creating a large Sybil region
and amplifying the weights of Sybil edges. In practice, this
means that the attacker can effectively receive a substantial
reward for each allocation.
D. Sybil-Tolerance of Existing Reputations
We evaluate three widely-used reputation mechanisms con-
sidered to be Sybil-resistant: personalized PageRank [47],
personalized Hitting Time [20], and BarterCast MaxFlow [18].
In this section, we present examples demonstrating that these
mechanisms are not Sybil-resistant and, in some cases, fail to
even achieve Sybil-tolerance.

Personalized PageRank: The personalized PageRank algo-
rithm (PPR) is a variant of the standard PageRank algorithm,
tailored to measure the importance of nodes relative to a
specific seed node i. The algorithm works as follows: A
random walk is initiated from the seed node i. At each step,
with probability α, the walk terminates and ‘teleports’ back to
the seed node i, and with probability 1−α, the walk moves to
a randomly selected neighboring node. The PPR reputation of
a node j is the steady-state probability that the random walk
initiated at i will be at j at any given step. In other words, it
represents the probability that a random walker starting from
the seed node i will be found at node j after any number
of steps, assuming the process has reached equilibrium. In
practice, this is estimated by running multiple random walks
starting from the seed nodei and counting the number of times
node j is reached.
One significant issue with PageRank is that random walks
can become trapped in the Sybil region, especially when a
cycle attack is executed. In the global version of PageRank,
this can occur even without the presence of attack edges.
The most effective method for attacking PageRank is through
a cycle attack, where the attacker creates edges with large
weights among Sybil nodes. This manipulation increases the
total number of encounters in a random walk, thereby enabling
unbounded inflation of the reputation scores of the Sybil nodes
and making PageRank not Sybil-tolerant.
PPR introduces a level of Sybil tolerance due to its damping
factor α. This damping factor ensures that at each step, there
is a probability α of returning to the seed node, which reduces
the likelihood of random walks becoming trapped in the Sybil
region. PPR was previously reported as Sybil-resistant, but this
is true only in the absence of attack edges, where no random
walks would reach any of the Sybil nodes. However, when
attack edges are present, the attacker can still obtain a gain
from a Sybil attack, especially when α is low.
Personalized Hitting Time: The Personalized Hitting Time
(PHT) algorithm is a variation of the random walk-based
algorithms. Unlike PPR, which focuses on steady-state proba-
bilities and the long-term presence of nodes, PHT concentrates
on the first encounter of nodes during the random walk. It
measures the expected number of steps a random walker,
starting from a seed node i, will take to reach target node
j for the first time.
Compared to PageRank, PHT is less affected by cycle
attacks. However, PHT remains susceptible to serial attacks,
where Sybil identities are connected in a linear sequence. In
this scenario, each Sybil node in the sequence gains some
positive reputation as the random walk progresses through the
chain, ultimately leading to the inflation of the reputations of
all Sybil nodes along the path. Similar to PPR, PHT is not
inherently Sybil-resistant but can achieve some level of Sybil
tolerance by using a high teleportation probability α.
MaxFlow: The MaxFlow (MFW) algorithm is a classical
approach in network flow theory that determines the maximum
possible flow from a source node to a target node in a flow
network. Given a directed graph G = (V,E,w ) where each
edge (i,j )∈E has a capacity w≥ 0, the objective is to find
the maximum flow from a source node i to a sink node j such
that the flow on each edge does not exceed its capacity and
the incoming flow equals the outgoing flow for every node
except i and j.
MFW was proposed for use in reputation systems because
it effectively mimics the idea of credit networks [42], where
the flow of value or contributions can be tracked through
paths in a network. In such systems, the reputation of a
node is determined by its ability to contribute value that can
reach the target node, considering all possible routes. This
approach ensures that the amount a node can gain is bounded
by its aggregated contributions, making it a robust measure
of a node’s overall influence and trustworthiness within the
network.
Despite its theoretical benefits, MFW-based reputation
mechanisms are vulnerable to Sybil attacks due to how they
aggregate flow across multiple paths. In a parallel attack
(shown in Figure 5c), an attacker creates multiple Sybil iden-
tities, each connected directly to the attacker’s main node s0.
Since MFW sums the flow through all paths, each additional
Sybil identity increases the total flow capacity from honest
nodes to the attacker, allowing the attacker to artificially inflate
its cumulative reputation. This results in an unbounded gain
because there is no constraint on the number of Sybil identities
an attacker can create.
E. Bounding Properties for Sybil-Tolerance
In this section we define three desirable properties of
reputation mechanisms to achieve the Sybil-Tolerance.
The first property we define aims to bound the effectiveness
of parallel and cycle Sybil attacks. These attacks are effective
because reputation mechanisms typically treat each new edge
as an independent source of feedback, resulting in an inflated
reputation for the attacker. To address this issue, we define
a property called the Parallel Attack Bound . This property
ensures that, regardless of the number of Sybil nodes intro-
duced, the cumulative reputation gain remains bounded, so the
attacker’s inflated reputation does not exceed what would be
achieved by a single Sybil node.
Definition IV .5(Parallel Attack Bound). A reputation mech-
anism is parallel attack bound if, for any seed node i∈V and
for the set of Sybil nodes s1,s 2,...,s m generated through a
parallel or cycle attack, the total reputation satisfies:
mX
l=1
Ri(G′
i(m),sl)≤Ri(G′
i(1),s 1).
The second property we define is aimed at bounding the
effectiveness of serial Sybil attacks. In such attacks, the
attacker extends the path of Sybil nodes, with each new
Sybil contributing additional feedback along the chain, thereby
inflating the attacker’s reputation. To address this, we introduce
the Serial Attack Bound. This property ensures that the inflated
reputation of a serial attack is bounded, even as the length
of the Sybil paths increases, preventing the attacker from

achieving unbounded gains by simply extending the chain of
Sybil nodes.
Definition IV .6(Serial Attack Bound) . A reputation mecha-
nism is serial attack bound if, for any seed node i∈ V and
for the set of Sybil nodes s1,s 2,...,s m generated through a
serial attack, the total reputation satisfies:
lim
m→∞
mX
l=1
Ri(G′
i(m),sl)<∞.
The Bounded Transitivity property ensures that reputation
values cannot be inflated through paths that include low-
reputation nodes. Our proposed decay mechanisms, partic-
ularly transitivity decay, directly enforce this property by
reducing the influence of nodes as their distance from the
seed node increases. This means that reputation cannot be
disproportionately amplified through long chains of interme-
diaries, which often include low-reputation or Sybil nodes.
By integrating decay mechanisms, we ensure that the repu-
tation system adheres to Bounded Transitivity, enhancing its
resistance to manipulation. This principle has been explored
in reputation algorithms that incorporate MaxFlow concepts,
such as BarterCast [18].
Definition IV .7 (Bounded Transitivity). A reputation mecha-
nism satisfies Bounded Transitivity if, for any seed node i∈V
and any node j ∈ Vi such that there are N node-disjoint,
simple paths Pd (where d = 1, 2,...,N ) from i to j, it holds
that:
Ri(Gi,j )≤
NX
d=1
min{Ri(Gi,k )|k∈Pd}.
V. M ERIT RANK : S YBIL TOLERANT REPUTATIONS
In this section, we introduce M ERIT RANK, a set of tech-
niques designed to enhance the Sybil tolerance of existing
reputation mechanisms.
A. Bounding Properties in Practice
To achieve the bounding properties discussed in the Sec-
tion IV-E in practice, we propose four generic techniques for
existing reputation mechanisms. Specifically, we introduce rel-
ative feedback, decay on transitivity, and decay on connectivity
as heuristics to achieve bounds on Sybil attacks. Additionally,
we consider epoch decay due to its popularity in existing
reputation mechanisms.
Relative Feedback . In a Sybil attack, the attacker can
control the edge weights of Sybil nodes, potentially assigning
arbitrarily large values to inflate the influence of these con-
nections. Without proper normalization, these artificially high
weights can distort the reputation mechanism, as the system
might rely excessively on the absolute values of the incoming
edges. To counteract this, Relative Feedback introduces a
normalization step to each edge weight, ensuring that no single
node can amplify its reputation through artificially inflated
connections.
We introduce the Normalized Graph GN of a weighted
graph G = (V,E,w ) in the following way: for every node
k∈ V , let N (k) be the set of its neighboring nodes in G.
The corresponding Normalized Graph GN = (V,E,w N) is
defined such that:
wN(k,j ) = w(k,j )P
l∈N(k)
w(k,l ), ∀(k,j )∈E.
The normalization process is applied to every subjective
graph, adjusting all edge weights accordingly. For flow-based
algorithms, this normalization is applied prior to calculating
the reputation scores. For random-walk based mechanisms, the
normalization is incorporated dynamically during the calcula-
tion of the transition probabilities, with each step reflecting
the probability of moving from node k to node j based on
wN(k,j ).
This mechanism is the key to achieve Bounded Transitiv-
ity property and contributes to the Parallel Attack Bound.
It ensures that the reputation is always considered in the
context of its neighbors. Attackers cannot inflate reputations
by assigning large weights to edges connected to Sybil nodes,
as the normalization limits their impact.
Transitivity Decay. The purpose of this decay is to decrease
the reputation of nodes as their distance from the seed node
increases. This discourages the creation of long chains, such
as those used in serial attacks, by ensuring that nodes further
from the seed receive progressively lower scores.
In random-walk-based mechanisms, this concept is naturally
implemented using a teleportation probability α. With a prob-
ability of α, a random walk returns to the seed node, limiting
the influence of nodes further down the path. Typically, α is
set between 0.1 and 0.2 [48]. While we reuse this idea, we
reinterpret α not merely as a teleportation probability but as
a decay factor that systematically reduces a node’s reputation
contribution based on its distance from the seed node. Instead
of merely terminating random walks, α serves to attenuate the
influence of nodes further away, ensuring that the reputation
impact diminishes with each additional hop in the network.
In a flow-based reputation system, transitivity decay is
implemented by introducing a reduction factor applied to the
flow. Specifically, the floww from nodei to nodej is modified
to w′(e) = (1−α)d×w(e), where d is the distance from the
seed node to node j.
Transitivity Decay directly enforces the Serial Attack Bound
by diminishing the influence of nodes further from the seed
node, thus limiting the cumulative reputation that can be
gained through serial attacks.
Connectivity Decay. Sybil nodes often form dense clusters
that connect to the rest of the network through a small
number of intermediary nodes known as cut-vertices. A cut-
vertex is a node whose removal increases the number of
connected components in a graph, potentially isolating certain
nodes. Identifying and accounting for cut-vertices is essential
in mitigating the influence of nodes that depend on such
vulnerable connections.
The connectivity decay mechanism adjusts the reputation
scores of nodes that depend on cut-vertices, thereby reducing

the influence of potential Sybil clusters. The adjusted repu-
tation score with connectivity decay for a node j∈ Vi with
respect to a seed node i, is defined as:
Ri,β(Gi,j ) =
(
(1−β)·Ri(Gi,j ), if I(i,j ) = 1,
Ri(Gi,j ), otherwise,
where 0 ≤ β ≤ 1 is the decay factor, and I(i,j ) is an
indicator function that determines whether the connection
between nodes i and j is considered vulnerable due to low
local node connectivity .
The concept of local node connectivity between two nodes
i andj, denoted κ(i,j ), is defined as the minimum number of
nodes (excluding i and j) whose removal would disconnect i
fromj. Equivalently,κ(i,j ) is the maximum number of node-
independent paths between i and j, where node-independent
paths are paths that do not share any nodes other than the
endpoints. We introduce a connectivity thresholdt (witht≥ 1)
to determine the acceptable level of connectivity between
nodes. If the local node connectivity κ(i,j ) is less than or
equal to t, the connection between i and j is considered
vulnerable and subject to decay. The indicator function I(i,j )
is then defined as:
I(i,j ) =
(
1, if κ(i,j )≤t,
0, otherwise.
In practice, calculating κ(i,j ) directly can be computation-
ally intensive for large networks. To address this, we perform
a large number of random walks initiated from a seed node,
with each node calculating locally based on its own subjective
feedback graph. The indicator function I(i,j ) is estimated
by analyzing the frequency of random walks from node i to
node j that pass through intermediary nodes. This estimation
is practical because random walks are computationally effi-
cient and can be performed locally by every node using its
subjective view of the network.
LetTij denote the total number of random walks from node
i to nodej, and letTij(k) represent the number of these walks
that pass through an intermediary node k∈V\{i,j}. A node
k is considered critical if the proportion of walks passing
through k exceeds a threshold of 1/t. Thus, the indicator
function I(i,j ) is equivalently defined as:
I(i,j ) =



1, if max
k∈V\{i,j}
Tij(k)
Tij

≥ 1
t,
0, otherwise.
This approximation relies on the idea that when κ(i,j )
is low, there are fewer node-independent paths between i
and j, causing a higher proportion of random walks to pass
through certain critical nodes. The threshold t determines the
sensitivity of the connectivity decay mechanism. The higher
t, the more node-independent paths are required to avoid the
decay.
Connectivity decay penalizes nodes that are connected to the
seed node through a small number of independent paths. In a
parallel attack, an attacker creates multiple Sybil nodes directly
connected to itself, which is then connected to the seed node
through limited attack edges. By applying connectivity decay,
the reputation influence of each Sybil node is reduced because
they all rely on the same limited connections to the seed node,
enforcing the Parallel Attack Bound. Similarly, connectivity
decay impacts serial attacks by reducing the influence of Sybil
nodes that are connected to the seed node through a single,
elongated path, thereby achieving the Serial Attack Bound.
Epoch Decay. Attackers might attempt to exploit the system
by maintaining high reputations for their Sybil nodes based on
the older feedback. To counter this, we introduce the concept
of epoch decay , which reduces the influence of feedback as
it ages. The epoch decay aims to require continuous positive
contributions to maintain a high reputation. However, epoch
decay might have unintended consequences. For instance, it
could uniformly reduce the reputations of all participants and,
as a result, potentially favor attackers who can rapidly generate
new Sybil identities.
Given an epoch decay coefficient 0≤γ≤ 1, we detail two
methods for implementing this decay:
1) Decay on Reputation Values: This method dynamically
adjusts reputation values over time to give more weight
to recent contributions. The reputation update formula
for a node j from the perspective of a seed node i at
epoch τ + 1 is:
Ri(G(τ+1)
i ,j ) = (1−γ)·Ri(G(τ)
i ,j )+Ri(G∆(τ+1,τ)
i ,j )
Where, Gτ
i = ( Vτ
i ,Eτ
i,wτ
i ) is the subjective feed-
back graph of node i at epoch τ, and G(∆(τ+1,τ))
i =
(V (τ+1)
i , ∆E(τ+1)
i , ∆w(τ+1)
i ) represents the changes to
the graph Gτ
i in epoch τ + 1, which account for newly
added edges and the weight updates for existing edges.
2) Decay on Graph Weights : This method applies decay
directly to the weights of the graph’s edges, progres-
sively decreasing the impact of older edges. The weight
update formula for an edge (i,j ) at epoch τ + 1 is:
w(τ+1)
γ (i,j ) = max

0,w (τ+1)(i,j )− (1−γ)·w(τ)(i,j )

VI. E XPERIMENTS
In this section, we present the results of a quantitative study
on the MeritRank algorithm. Our evaluation focuses on the
impact of Sybil attacks on reputation scores and examines
how the proposed decay mechanisms influence these scores.
Additionally, we assess the effect of decay mechanisms on
the informativeness of the reputation system, i.e., the system’s
ability to still accurately rank honest nodes.
A. Experimental Set-Up
For our study, we consider the MakerDAO forum, one of
the largest decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs)
to date [49]. MakerDAO is a decentralized platform built
on the Ethereum blockchain that facilitates the issuance and
management of the DAI stablecoin. The DAI token is an algo-
rithmically stabilized cryptocurrency pegged to the US dollar.

MakerDAO is governed by holders of the MKR utility token,
which serves as the platform’s governance token. MKR token
holders participate in decision-making processes by creating
and voting on proposals within the MakerDAO forum [50].
These proposals influence MakerDAO’s operations, including
adjustments to the parameters that maintain the stability of
DAI.
We prepare a dataset for our experiments by parsing the fo-
rum activity using the provided API1. Our dataset encompasses
all user interactions within the MakerDAO forum, including
replies, likes, posts, and votes on proposals, spanning from
June 24, 2019, to May 26, 2022 (153 weeks). Each action
within the forum is quantified in terms of work units, following
the framework defined by the SourceCred MakerDAO project2.
For example, a post is evaluated based on the number of likes
it receives, with each like contributing four work units to the
post’s total value. Using these work units, we construct a work
graph where nodes represent users and entities (such as posts),
and edges represent actions connecting them. For instance, if
a user creates a post and another user likes it, this interaction
is represented in the graph as a sequence of edges: from the
user to the post (creation) and from the post to the user who
liked it (feedback).
We then derive a feedback graph by compressing the work
graph. In this process, intermediary entities like posts and their
associated edges are first aggregated into direct edges between
users, which are then combined into a single edge. The result
is a simplified graph where the edge weight w(i,j ) between
two users i and j reflects the cumulative relative feedback
given from user i to user j. This edge weight is calculated
by summing the work units of all interactions—such as likes,
replies, and other forms of feedback—that user i has provided
to the posts and comments made by user j.
We consider updates to the feedback graph over one-week
epochs. Every epoch, the feedback graph is updated based
on all forum interactions recorded that week. These updates
appear as either new edges added between users or updated
weights for existing edges. In total there are 153 epochs with
peak activity occurring in week 149, when 1,528 new edges
were added. By the end of epoch 153, the feedback graph
comprised 2,057 nodes and 35,853 edges.
We create a simulation according to the model described in
Section III. For consistency, we maintain a fixed seed node
outside the graph. As the feedback graph evolves with new
edges and updated weights, this seed node remains continu-
ously connected to the top 10 currently most reputable nodes
with equal weights. To evaluate M ERIT RANK, we implement
two types of Sybil attacks: a single Sybil attack and a repeated
Sybil attack.
Before initiating these attacks, we allow the system a 20-
epoch grace period to establish initial reputations. At the end
of this period, we designate one of the top 10 most reputable
nodes as the attacker node. For the single Sybil attack, we
1https://forum.sky.money
2http://makerdao.sourcecred.io
simulate a scenario where an attacker infiltrates the system,
executes a single attack with a varying number of Sybil nodes,
and then withdraws, taking the profit.
In the repeated Sybil attack, the attacker consistently adds
a new Sybil node every epoch to the system after the grace
period. Each new Sybil node added is a new node with no
prior reputation. The attacker node is selected once and fixed
for the whole experiment run. This setup models a scenario
where the attacker gradually increases its influence to poison
the system and achieve larger cumulative gains. While less
common in practice, this approach tests the system’s resilience
under worst-case conditions.
B. Transitivity Decay
We implement the Personalized PageRank (PPR), Person-
alized Hitting Time (PHT), and MaxFlow (MFW) algorithms,
incorporating transitivity decay to assess the robustness of
these reputation mechanisms against Sybil attacks. For each
reputation mechanism, we introduce a varying number of
Sybil nodes and corresponding Sybil edges, following the
most effective attack strategy identified for each reputation
in Section IV-D. For all reported figures involving varying
parameters, we repeat the simulation 10 times and present the
average along with the standard error. Note that the standard
error is not visible in the figures as its value is negligibly
small.
We report the attacker’s gain from a single Sybil attack
executed right after the grace period in Figure 6. In Figure 6a,
we illustrate the effect of transitivity decay as a function of
the decay value α. We vary the decay value α from 0.05,
representing minimal transitivity decay, to 0.95, where the
most distant edges are severely decayed. Setting α = 0 is not
possible, as it would prevent random walks from terminating.
We set the number of Sybil nodes to 50. The results show
that the attacker can gain up to 1.5 to 2.5 times when there
is minimal transitivity decay. However, as the decay value
increases, the attacker’s gain decreases.
Figure 6b further examines the effect of increasing the
number of Sybil nodes on the attacker’s gain. Even as the
number of Sybil nodes increases, the attacker’s gain does
not grow significantly except for MFW. Notably, the MFW
mechanism shows a higher attacker’s gain compared to PPR
and PHT.
To further analyze the cumulative impact of Sybil attacks
over time, we execute repeated Sybil attacks and report the
attacker’s gain at the end of 153 epochs. Our results are
presented in Figure 7. The repeated Sybil attack clearly shows
that the attacker can gain more compared to the single Sybil
attack, which is especially evident for MFW.
Our findings indicate that transitivity decay can successfully
decrease the attacker’s gain, especially with higher decay
values. Among the reputation mechanisms tested, PHT results
in the lowest attacker’s gain for both single and repeated Sybil
attacks. MFW has poor Sybil tolerance because it aggregates
trust additively across all available paths, allowing attackers
to inflate their reputation despite the decay. Moreover, MFW

0.05 0.2 0.4 0.8 0.95
Decay value 
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5Attacker's Gain
Reputation Algorithm
PPR
PHT
MFW
(a) Attacker’s gain with 50 Sybil nodes.
1 10 20 50 100
Number of Sybils
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5Attacker's Gain
Reputation Algorithm
PPR
PHT
MFW (b) Attacker’s gain given a transitivity decay value α of 0.4
Figure 6: The attacker’s gain from a single Sybil attack for the three reputation algorithms versus (a) the transitivity decay ( α)
and (b) the number of Sybil nodes.
0.05 0.2 0.4 0.8 0.95
Decay value 
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
15.0Attacker's Gain
Reputation Algorithm
PPR
PHT
MFW
(a) Attacker’s gain with 50 Sybil nodes added per epoch.
1 10 20 50 100
Number of Sybils per Epoch
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0Attacker's Gain
Reputation Algorithm
PPR
PHT
MFW (b) Attacker’s gain given transitivity decay value α of 0.4
Figure 7: The attacker’s gain from a repeated Sybil attack for the three reputation algorithms versus (a) the transitivity decay
(α) and (b) the number of Sybil nodes per epoch.
is computationally more intensive than PPR and PHT, making
it less desirable in practice.
PPR performs worse than PHT because it is more vulnerable
to cycle attacks. In PPR, reputation is distributed based on the
stationary distribution of random walks with restarts, which
can be influenced by the presence of cycles or loops in the
network. Attackers can exploit this by creating cyclic struc-
tures among Sybil nodes to trap the random walks and thereby
absorb more reputation. This results in higher reputation scores
for Sybil nodes in PPR compared to PHT.
The intuition behind transitivity decay is that it is spa-
tial—the further a node is from the seed node in terms of
network distance, the more its reputation is decayed. Conse-
quently, nodes that are farther away receive exponentially less
reputation than those closer to the seed node. This mechanism
is particularly effective against serial attacks, where an attacker
attempts to build a long chain of Sybil nodes to reach the seed
nodes. As a result, transitivity decay directly addresses PHT’s
vulnerability to serial attacks.
Due to its superior performance in mitigating Sybil attacks,
we use PHT as the base algorithm for all later experiments.
For PHT, we select the serial attack as the most effective
one observed in prior tests. For the subsequent experiments,
we only report the repeated Sybil attack, as it has more
pronounced effects on the network’s reputation system.
C. Connectivity Decay
For the connectivity decay experiments, we set the tran-
sitivity decay coefficient to a small value of α = 0 .05
and the connectivity threshold to t = 1 . This configuration
targets nodes that are connected to the graph exclusively
through a single intermediary node, a typical characteristic
of Sybil nodes. This decay is also spatial in its nature, like the
transitivity decay.
Figure 8 illustrates the impact of connectivity decay on the
attacker’s gain. When there is no connectivity decay ( β = 0),
the attacker’s gain increases sub-linearly with the number of
Sybil nodes. However, as the connectivity decay coefficient β

0 20 80 10040 60 
1
3
4
5
6
7
8Attacker's Gain
0.0
0.4
0.8
1.0
2
Number of Sybils per Epoch
Figure 8: The attacker’s gain versus the number of Sybils
added per epoch given the connectivity decay β with the
reputation algorithm PHT. The connectivity decay is fixed at
α = 0.05.
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5Attacker's Gain 1.0
1.5
2.0
Figure 9: The joint effect of the transitivity decay ( α) and
connectivity decay ( β) mechanisms on the attacker’s gain
given 50 Sybil nodes added per epoch with the reputation
algorithm PHT.
increases, the attacker’s gain decreases significantly. Notably,
with β = 1.0, the attacker’s gain is completely eliminated
because the reputation scores of Sybil nodes connected solely
through a single intermediary drop to zero.
In Figure 9, we show that combining connectivity and
transitivity decay mechanisms results in greater Sybil tol-
erance compared to applying each mechanism individually.
Specifically, when both the transitivity and connectivity decay
coefficients are set to 0.3, the attacker’s gain remains limited
to 1.5.
Our experiments demonstrate that M ERIT RANK effectively
mitigates the attacker’s gain through spatial decay mecha-
nisms, even against a significant repeated Sybil attack. Tran-
sitivity decay penalizes nodes that are too distant from the
seed node, while connectivity decay penalizes nodes that are
sparsely connected. Consequently, transitivity decay reduce s
the effectiveness of serial attacks, while connectivity decay
addresses parallel and cycle attacks. By combining both mech-
anisms, M ERIT RANK achieves Sybil tolerance as defined in
Definition IV .4, with a threshold of 1≤c≤ 2.
D. Epoch Decay
We conduct experiments to evaluate the effectiveness of
epoch decay in mitigating Sybil attacks by applying it to
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Decay Value 
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0Attacker's Gain
Epoch Decay Type
On weights
On reputation
Figure 10: The attacker’s gain versus epoch decay (γ) with 50
Sybil nodes added per epoch with reputation algorithm PHT.
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Decay Value
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Retention IndexDecay Type
Figure 11: The Retention Index for the top 100 nodes given
a reputation algorithm PHT versus the decay values for the
decay mechanisms: transitivity (α), connectivity (β) and epoch
(γ).
both reputation values and edge weights. The experiments
simulate a repeated Sybil attack scenario with 50 Sybil nodes
introduced per epoch, while the transitivity decay coefficient
is fixed at α = 0.05. The results, presented in Figure 10,
show the attacker’s gain across different epoch decay values.
The findings indicate that epoch decay has minimal impact
on the attacker’s gain, regardless of whether it is applied to
reputation values or graph weights. In both cases, the attacker’s
gain remains consistently high, with only minor fluctuations
as the decay value increases.
A notable insight from our experiments is that epoch decay
fails to address repeated Sybil attacks effectively. The under-
lying intuition behind epoch decay is to limit the cumulative
influence of nodes over time by penalizing their contribution
across epochs. This approach is intended to counter specific
attack strategies where an attacker invests in creating a few
attack edges and repeatedly exploits them by generating ad-
ditional Sybil regions. However, our results demonstrate that
this mechanism can be easily circumvented by maintaining at
least one attack edge and introducing new Sybil nodes each
epoch. As a result, the cumulative gain from the attack remains
unaffected, rendering epoch decay ineffective in mitigating
repeated Sybil attacks.
E. Effect of Decays on Informativeness
In the previous experiments, we demonstrated how decay
mechanisms can effectively limit Sybil attacks. However, these

mechanisms are applied universally, even in the absence of
Sybil nodes, which can unintentionally degrade the reputation
scores of honest participants. Specifically, transitivity decay
favors participants close to highly reputable nodes, connec-
tivity decay prioritizes well-connected nodes, and epoch de-
cay penalizes participants who are not consistently active.
To quantify this unintended impact, we introduce a metric
called informativeness, which evaluates how well the original
reputation scores of honest participants are preserved after
applying decay. To measure informativeness, we execute our
simulation applying decay mechanisms without executing any
Sybil attacks, reporting the informativeness at the end of epoch
153. We fix t = 1 for connectivity decay.
We use two complementary metrics to measure informa-
tiveness: the Retention Index for the top N nodes and the
Mean Proportional Deviation (MPD). The Retention Index
measures how many of the original top N nodes remain in
the top N ranking after applying decay. This is particularly
useful in scenarios where maintaining the composition of top
contributors is important, for example, an allocation score that
distributes all rewards to the top 100 most reputable nodes.
The MPD, on the other hand, measures the exact deviations
in reputation values. This metric is valuable in situations where
rewards are allocated proportionally to reputation scores.
The Retention Index quantifies the preservation as the
intersection of set of top N nodes before and after applying
decay. This metric ranges from 0 (no overlap between the sets)
to 1 (complete overlap). LetN denote the number of top nodes
considered, and let d∈ [0, 1] represent the value of the decay
parameter for a given decay mechanism. We define Vd
N⊆V
as the set of the topN nodes with the highest reputation scores
after applying decay, and V 0
N ⊆ V as the corresponding set
before applying decay. The Retention Index, R(d), is defined
as:
R(d) =|V 0
N∩Vd
N|
|V 0
N|
Figure 11 illustrates the Retention Index for the top 100
nodes versus the decay value for all three decay mechanisms.
The results indicate that connectivity decay ( β) maintains the
highest overlap with the baseline ranking across all decay
values. Transitivity decay (α) exhibits a steady linear decline
in overlap as decay increases, with higher decay values leading
to a significant divergence from the baseline ranking. Epoch
decay (γ) shows a significant drop at a decay value of 0.1.
With this value 63 % of the nodes retain their rankings in the
top 100. The index continues to decrease with further decay
but stabilizes, maintaining approximately 50 % overlap when
γ = 1.0.
The decline in the Retention Index with increasing decay is
a direct result of the mechanisms prioritizing nodes closer to
the seed, those with stronger connectivity, or participants with
consistent activity. Our results indicate that informativeness
largely depends on the connectivity and activity levels of
participants. In the case of MakerDAO, the top 100 nodes are
densely connected and highly active, with approximately 60%
participating in at least half of the epochs. This suggests that
the decay mechanisms have minimal impact on informative-
ness for the most central and consistently active participants,
while peripheral or less active nodes may experience greater
penalties.
Our second metric, MPD, quantifies the deviation of reputa-
tion scores from their original values when decay mechanisms
are applied. For a given nodei∈V , the proportional deviation
of the reputation scoreRi under a decay parameterd is defined
as follows:
δi(d,k ) = Ri,decay=d(Gi,k )−Ri,decay=0(Gi,k )
Ri,decay=0(Gi,k )
The MPD is then separated into its positive and negative
components. MPD +(d) captures the positive deviations (in-
creases in reputation) and MPD−(d) captures the absolute
values of the negative deviations (decreases in reputation):
MPD +(d) = 1
|{k∈V\{i}| δi(d,k )> 0}|
X
k∈V\{i}
δi(d,k)>0
δi(d,k ),
MPD−(d) = 1
|{k∈V\{i}| δi(d,k )< 0}|
X
k∈V\{i}
δi(d,k)<0
|δi(d,k )|.
Figure 12 illustrates the behavior of MPD +(d) and
MPD−(d) under the three decay mechanisms, averaged
across 10 independent runs. The results demonstrate a clear
divergence in how the different decay mechanisms influence
the informativeness of the reputation scores.
For positive deviations ( MPD +), both transitivity decay
and epoch decay exhibit a consistent and pronounced increase
as decay values rise. In the case of transitivity decay, as
the decay value increases, nodes closer to the seed node
accrue disproportionately high reputation scores relative to
their baseline. At the maximum decay value ( α = 1.0), direct
neighbors of the seed node experience an average increase in
their reputation scores by a factor of 7. A similar trend is
observed for epoch decay, resulting in high deviations even
with smaller decay values.
In contrast, connectivity decay shows a relatively stable and
flat trend after an initial increase. This stability arises because
connectivity decay selectively penalizes nodes with low local
connectivity (i.e., nodes that are reachable through only a
single path given t is 1). In the MakerDAO graph 23 % of
the nodes have 0 or 1 incoming connections, which would be
target for the penalty.
For negative deviations ( MPD−), all three decay mech-
anisms exhibit a rapid initial increase, followed by slower,
steady growth as the decay value rises. At α = 1.0, transitivity
decay leads to the complete nullification of all reputation
scores, except for those of the direct neighbors of the seed
node, leading to δi(1.0,k ) =−1. A similar effect is observed

0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
Decay Value
0
2
4
6
8
10
MPD+
Decay Type
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
Decay Value
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
MPD
Decay Type
Figure 12: The positive and negative mean proportional deviation ( MPD + and MPD−) versus the decay value for the three
decay mechanisms with the reputation algorithm PHT.
with epoch decay, where older contributions are systemat-
ically diminished, resulting in a substantial degradation of
all reputation scores. In contrast, the increase in MPD−
for connectivity decay is less pronounced, this is because it
does not uniformly reduce reputation scores across the graph.
Specifically,δi =−1 for the nodes that are sparsely connected,
and δi = 0 for the others.
Our experiments reveal that connectivity decay preserves
informativeness better than transitivity and epoch decay for
both the Retention Index and MPD metrics. This outcome is
expected, as the connectivity decay affects a smaller subset of
nodes within the graph.
VII. C ONCLUSION
The advances in complex blockchain applications have
exposed the limitations of naive tokenomics, which often rely
on simple models of monetary incentives for token holders.
Merit-based reputation schemes that reward active contribu-
tors represent a promising direction for the development of
novel blockchain applications such as DAOs. However, the
application of reputation in decentralized environments is con-
strained by the reputation trilemma, which posits that a system
cannot simultaneously be generalizable, trustless, and Sybil-
resistant. We argue that feedback aggregation mechanisms
offer the best approach to overcome this challenge as they
maintain the trustless property essential to decentralization
and are generalizable across various contexts. However, these
mechanisms are inherently vulnerable to Sybil attacks, where
malicious actors can inflate their reputation scores by creating
multiple fake identities. To address this issue, we propose
MERIT RANK, Sybil-tolerant reputations based on feedback
aggregation with three decay mechanisms— transitivity decay,
connectivity decay, and epoch decay.
Using a dataset of MakerDAO participant interactions, we
experimentally demonstrate that M ERIT RANK effectively lim-
its the gains of attackers employing Sybil strategies. Fur-
thermore, we investigate informativeness, i.e. the ability to
accurately preserve the reputation of honest participants. Our
experiments indicate that a combination of transitivity decay
and connectivity decay achieves a desirable level of Sybil
tolerance while preserving higher informativeness. In contrast,
our findings reveal that epoch decay does not enhance Sybil
tolerance and can even be counterproductive, as attackers can
exploit it by continuously introducing new Sybil identities.
In conclusion, M ERIT RANK offers a practical and effective
solution for addressing the reputation trilemma. It allows for
the application of different decay parameter choices to balance
the trade-offs between informativeness and Sybil tolerance.
Future work could explore alternative heuristics to optimize
this balance and further investigate the counterproductive
effects of certain mechanisms, such as epoch decay, to mitigate
unintended vulnerabilities in reputation systems.
REFERENCES
[1] “MEV-boost: Merge ready flashbots architecture,” https://ethresear.ch/t/
mev-boost-merge-ready-flashbots-architecture/11177. Accessed: 2022-
04-12.
[2] C. T. Nguyen et al. , “Proof-of-stake consensus mechanisms for future
blockchain networks: fundamentals, applications and opportunities,”
IEEE Access, vol. 7, 2019.
[3] W. Li, S. Andreina, J.-M. Bohli, and G. Karame, “Securing proof-of-
stake blockchain protocols,” in Data Privacy Management, Cryptocur-
rencies and Blockchain Technology: ESORICS International Workshops.
Springer, 2017, pp. 297–315.
[4] “Aragondao,” https://documentation.aragon.org/products/aragon-client/
how-to-create-a-dao-using-aragon-client/page-1. Accessed: 2023-03-
01.
[5] “Coordinape,” https://github.com/coordinape. Accessed: 2022-04-01.
[6] “SourceCred,” https://github.com/sourcecred. Accessed: 2024-03-12.
[7] A. Rea et al. , “Colony. technical white paper,” 2020, https://colony.io/
whitepaper.pdf. Accessed: 2023-03-01.
[8] P. Freni, E. Ferro, and R. Moncada, “Tokenization and blockchain tokens
classification: a morphological framework,” in 2020 IEEE Symposium
on Computers and Communications (ISCC) . IEEE, 2020, pp. 1–
6, https://doi.org/10.1109/ISCC50000.2020.9219709. Accessed: [Your
Access Date Here].
[9] P. Garg, “MakerDAO whale with 94% voting power reduces dai stability
fee by 4%,” 2019, http://bit.ly/4cbvqgb. Accessed: 2022-03-01.
[10] K. Liam J., “How the juno network DAO voted to revoke a whale’s
tokens,” 2022, https://shorturl.at/nBHNV. Accessed: 2022-04-01.
[11] P. Daian et al. , “On-chain vote buying and the rise of dark DAOs,”
2018, https://hackingdistributed.com/2018/07/02/on-chain-vote-buying/.
Accessed: 2022-04-01.

[12] S. Martinazzi and A. Flori, “The evolving topology of the lightning
network: Centralization, efficiency, robustness, synchronization, and
anonymity,” Plos one, vol. 15, no. 1, 2020.
[13] M. A. Nowak, “Five rules for the evolution of cooperation,” Science,
vol. 314, no. 5805, pp. 1560–1563, 2006.
[14] J. R. Douceur, “The sybil attack,” in International workshop on peer-
to-peer systems. Springer, 2002, pp. 251–260.
[15] J. Dinger and H. Hartenstein, “Defending the sybil attack in p2p
networks: Taxonomy, challenges, and a proposal for self-registration,” in
First International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security
(ARES’06). IEEE, 2006.
[16] P. De Filippi et al., “Reputation,” Internet Policy Review, vol. 10, no. 2,
2021. [Online]. Available: https://policyreview.info/glossary/reputation
[17] E. Weyl, P. Ohlhaver, and V . Buterin, “Decentralized society: Finding
web3’s soul,” 2022, https://ssrn.com/abstract=4105763. Accessed: 2022-
05-15.
[18] M. Meulpolder et al. , “Bartercast: A practical approach to prevent
lazy freeriding in p2p networks,” in IEEE International Symposium on
Parallel & Distributed Processing , 2009.
[19] P. Otte, M. de V os, and J. Pouwelse, “Trustchain: A sybil-resistant
scalable blockchain,” Future Generation Computer Systems , vol. 107,
pp. 770–780, 2020.
[20] B. K. Liu et al., “Personalized hitting time for informative trust mech-
anisms despite sybils,” in Proceedings of the International Conference
on Autonomous Agents & Multiagent Systems , 2016.
[21] L. Alvisi et al. , “Sok: The evolution of sybil defense via social
networks,” in IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy . IEEE, 2013.
[22] B. Viswanath, A. Post, K. P. Gummadi, and A. Mislove, “An analysis
of social network-based sybil defenses,” ACM SIGCOMM Computer
Communication Review, vol. 40, no. 4, pp. 363–374, 2010.
[23] A. Stannat, C. U. Ileri, D. Gijswijt, and J. Pouwelse, “Achieving sybil-
proofness in distributed work systems,” in International Conference on
Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems (AAMAS) . International
Foundation for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, 2021, pp.
1263–1271.
[24] K. Walsh and E. G. Sirer, “Experience with an object reputation system
for peer-to-peer filesharing.” in NSDI, vol. 6, 2006.
[25] R. Delaviz et al. , “Sybilres: A sybil-resilient flow-based decentralized
reputation mechanism,” in 2012 IEEE 32nd International Conference on
Distributed Computing Systems . IEEE, 2012.
[26] F. Hendrikx et al. , “Reputation systems: A survey and taxonomy,”
Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing , vol. 75, 2015.
[27] E. Bellini et al. , “Blockchain-based distributed trust and reputation
management systems: A survey,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, 2020.
[28] S. Gurtler and I. Goldberg, “Sok: Privacy-preserving reputation sys-
tems,” Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies (PoPETs) , vol.
2021, pp. 107–127, 2021.
[29] A. Cheng and E. Friedman, “Sybilproof reputation mechanisms,” in
ACM SIGCOMM workshop on Economics of peer-to-peer systems, 2005,
pp. 128–132.
[30] K. Hoffman et al. , “A survey of attack and defense techniques for
reputation systems,” ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) , 2009.
[31] B. Viswanath et al., “Exploring the design space of social network-based
sybil defenses,” in International Conference on Communication Systems
and Networks (COMSNETS 2012) . IEEE, 2012.
[32] E. Koutrouli and A. Tsalgatidou, “Taxonomy of attacks and defense
mechanisms in p2p reputation systems—lessons for reputation system
designers,” Computer Science Review , vol. 6, no. 2, 2012.
[33] S. Seuken et al., “Work accounting mechanisms: Theory and practice,”
in Working Paper. Department of Informatics . University of Zurich,
2014.
[34] Y . El Faqir et al. , “An overview of decentralized autonomous organi-
zations on the blockchain,” in Proceedings of the 16th International
Symposium on Open Collaboration . ACM, 2020.
[35] D. Siddarth et al. , “Who watches the watchmen? a review of subjec-
tive approaches for sybil-resistance in proof of personhood protocols,”
Frontiers in Blockchain, vol. 3, 2020.
[36] S. Eskandari et al. , “SoK: oracles from the ground truth to market
manipulation,” in Proceedings of the 3rd ACM Conference on Advances
in Financial Technologies, 2021.
[37] Y . Cai et al., “A truth-inducing sybil resistant decentralized blockchain
oracle,” in 2020 2nd Conference on Blockchain Research & Applications
for Innovative Networks and Services (BRAINS) . IEEE, 2020.
[38] K. W ¨ust and A. Gervais, “Do you need a blockchain?” in 2018 Crypto
Valley Conference on Blockchain Technology (CVCBT) . IEEE, 2018,
pp. 45–54.
[39] S. D. Kamvar, M. T. Schlosser, and H. Garcia-Molina, “The eigentrust
algorithm for reputation management in p2p networks,” in Proceedings
of the 12th international conference on World Wide Web, 2003, pp. 640–
651.
[40] H. Yu, M. Kaminsky, P. B. Gibbons, and A. Flaxman, “Sybilguard:
defending against sybil attacks via social networks,” in Proceedings of
the 2006 conference on Applications, technologies, architectures, and
protocols for computer communications , 2006, pp. 267–278.
[41] H. Yu, P. B. Gibbons, M. Kaminsky, and F. Xiao, “Sybillimit: A near-
optimal social network defense against sybil attacks,” in 2008 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy (sp 2008) . IEEE, 2008, pp. 3–17.
[42] B. Viswanath, M. Mondal, K. P. Gummadi, A. Mislove, and A. Post,
“Canal: Scaling social network-based sybil tolerance schemes,” in Pro-
ceedings of the 7th ACM european conference on Computer Systems ,
2012.
[43] “Discourse,” https://www.discourse.org. Accessed: 2024-04-01.
[44] E. Miyazono, “Sourcecred: An introduction to calculating
cred and grain,” 2020, https://research.protocol.ai/blog/2020/
sourcecred-an-introduction-to-calculating-cred-and-grain. Accessed:
2022-04-01.
[45] D. Tarr, E. Lavoie, A. Meyer, and C. Tschudin, “Secure scuttlebutt: An
identity-centric protocol for subjective and decentralized applications,”
in ACM Conference on Information-Centric Networking, 2019, pp. 1–11.
[46] “Bittorrent,” https://bittorrent.com/. Accessed: 2023-08-12.
[47] B. Bahmani et al., “Fast incremental and personalized pagerank,” VLDB,
2010.
[48] S. Brin and L. Page, “The anatomy of a large-scale hypertextual web
search engine,” Computer Networks and ISDN Systems , vol. 30, no. 1,
pp. 107–117, 1998, proceedings of the Seventh International World Wide
Web Conference.
[49] M. Team, “The maker protocol: Makerdao’s multi-collateral dai (mcd)
system,” https://makerdao.com/en/whitepaper/, 2017, accessed: 2024-03-
13.
[50] “MakerDAO-forum,” https://forum.makerdao.com. Accessed: 2024-04-
01.