1
Semantica: Decentralized Search using a LLM-Guided Semantic Tree
Overlay
Petru Neague∗, Quinten Stokkink∗, Naman Goel†, Johan Pouwelse∗
∗Delft University of Technology
{p.m.neague, q.a.stokkink, j.a.pouwelse}@tudelft.nl
†University of Oxford
naman.goel@cs.ox.ac.uk
Abstract—Centralized search engines are key for the Internet,
but lead to undesirable concentration of power. Decentralized
alternatives fail to offer equal document retrieval accuracy and
speed. Nevertheless, Semantic Overlay Networks can come close
to the performance of centralized solutions when the semantics
of documents are properly captured. This work uses embeddings
from Large Language Models to capture semantics and fulfill the
promise of Semantic Overlay Networks. Our proposed algorithm,
called Semantica, constructs a prefix tree (trie) utilizing document
embeddings calculated by a language model. Users connect to
each other based on the embeddings of their documents, ensuring
that semantically similar users are directly linked. Thereby,
this construction makes it more likely for user searches to be
answered by the users that they are directly connected to, or
by the users they are close to in the network connection graph.
The implementation of our algorithm also accommodates the
semantic diversity of individual users by spawning “clone” user
identifiers in the tree. Our experiments use emulation with a
real-world workload to show Semantica’s ability to identify and
connect to similar users quickly. Semantica finds up to ten
times more semantically similar users than current state-of-the-
art approaches. At the same time, Semantica can retrieve more
than two times the number of relevant documents given the
same network load. We also make our code publicly available to
facilitate further research in the area.
Index Terms —Semantic Overlay Network, Large Language
Model, Decentralized
I. I NTRODUCTION
Search engines like Google are the cornerstone of how
individuals share and discover information on the Internet. Es-
timates of monthly website traffic in 2024 for google.com
range from 80 billion to 135 billion visits [3], [25]. The
centralized nature of widely-used Web technologies has raised
a number of concerns related to concentration of power, loss of
individual autonomy, privacy, governance, etc [35], [27]. As an
alternative, decentralized systems such as peer-to-peer systems
have been built [22], but they have seen limited adoption due
to a range of technical and non-technical factors [1]. In this
work, we investigate an exciting opportunity presented by the
state-of-the-art pre-trained large language models (LLMs) [18]
to significantly improve the scalability, accuracy, and ease of
implementation of systems for decentralized semantic search.
Centralized search engines allow users to quickly discover
relevant information from the vast amount of publicly available
information. However, search is technically challenging to
implement in the absence of any central entity to index all
TABLE I: Characteristics of related retrieval techniques.
Approach Semantic Predictive Distributed Training
Search Cache Not Required
Centralized Search Index
(e.g. DSI [29]) ✓ × × ×
De-DSI [20] ✓ × ✓ ×
Chord DHT [26] × ✓ ✓ ✓
Graph Diffusion [11] ✓ × ✓ ✓
Semantica (This work) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
the information available in a network and serve the queries
of users. This problem has received significant attention in the
past, with ideas such as structured overlay networks proposed
as potential solutions. Tried-and-tested solutions exist for
models like Distributed Hash Tables (DHTs) and Publish-
Subscribe [30] to serve content distribution and key-value-
based retrieval. However, a decentralized solution towards
serving text queries with semantically related results has not
yet seen wide adoption.
Losses in document retrieval accuracy and speed are com-
mon problems stemming from decentralization. Decentralized
solutions are scalable when they distribute workloads over
multiple physical machines. In general, accessing the dis-
tributed data of these workloads involves communication over
networks. Because of the required network communication, it
is very challenging to build scalable features on top of a decen-
tralized network that perform as well as the features offered
by centralized competitors. Further, any potential solutions
have to consider fundamental constraints such as information
becoming (temporarily) unavailable due to nodes going offline,
new nodes joining dynamically and slow network communi-
cation relative to local database access, etc.
Accuracy and speed losses due to decentralization can be
mitigated using semantics. Semantic overlay networks (SONs)
are structured overlay networks that connect users based on
semantics. The idea is that semantics have predictive capacity:
users that operate in the same semantic context are interested
in the same data and they should be connected. Users with
a similar history of a certain type of document are likely to
continue to share more documents they are both interested
in. It makes sense to first query these users when searching
for information and it has been shown that semantic net-
works indeed offer low latency and high accuracy in retrieved
arXiv:2502.10151v1  [cs.IR]  14 Feb 2025

2
documents, comparable to centralized approaches [28]. This
speedup is highly related to the way DHTs connect users
based on shared hashes and in Table I we provide a high-
level view of other document retrieval techniques that are
discussed in Section III. However, the speedup is then critically
dependent on the ability of users in such networks to capture
the semantics of data.
Capturing the semantics of data is referred to as Latent
Semantic Indexing [9] or just Latent Indexing [24]. The latent
index of a user is typically calculated using the mean of
all documents accessed by a user. Previously, two common
options were available and utilized, but (i) decomposition
from words to vectors (e.g., TF-IDF [28]) did not sufficiently
capture semantic context and (ii) the alternative of Natural
Language Processing had exponential time complexity [2].
LLMs present an opportunity to revisit this issue. A pre-trained
LLM captures both semantic context and offers low latency,
making it a promising technology to deliver on the promise
of networks based on semantics. Rather than constructing
latent indices using human-interpretable words, indices can be
calculated using LLM embeddings.
Work on navigating embeddings to retrieve documents has
thus far not considered the possibility of a one-to-one mapping
to decentralized networks. This is a missed opportunity. For
example, in recent work, DSI [29] introduces “Semantically
Structured Identifiers” to train prefix trees (tries) for efficient
search. For those familiar with computer networks, the similar-
ity to the tries used in DHTs is striking. In De-DSI [20], a first
step toward decentralization is taken using a decentralized-
ensemble learning approach, but this approach still requires
(online) learning periodically to update the index. In this work,
we move beyond single-purpose training and show that pre-
trained general-purpose LLM models are sufficient to create
decentralized semantic search using trees (i.e., tries).
We present the first predictive decentralized document
search algorithm, Semantica, to fully exploit recent ad-
vances in LLM technology. Our idea is to create a structured
semantic overlay network using LLMs for Latent Semantic
Indexing. This tree is maintained and updated in a peer-to-peer
(semantic) overlay network. Our contributions are as follows.
• In Section II defines the operational setting, aims and
assumptions of our work.
• How our Semantica algorithm constructs and main-
tains a decentralized semantic tree data structure is pre-
sented in Section IV.
• The implementation of Semantica, its emulation using
real-world workloads, and its performance metrics are
given in Section V and subsequently discussed in Sec-
tion VI.
• The algorithmic complexity of Semantica and data
structure properties are derived in Section VII.
II. S ETTING
Decentralized semantic search aims to locate relevant doc-
uments in a large, distributed network without relying on a
central index or coordinator. We consider a system composed
of N autonomous users, each storing a subset of the global
document set. The subsets of documents at individuals users
are not mutually exclusive. A user issues a query (i.e., a textual
description) that captures the desired semantic content that
they wish to find. The challenge is to route and resolve this
query purely through peer-to-peer interactions, in a manner
that remains both efficient and accurate at scale.
In this setting, no single user possesses a global index of
where documents reside. Instead, each node has only local
knowledge: it knows its own documents and maintains a
limited “neighbor list” of other nodes. For the purposes of
this paper we assume that users have perfect search on their
own device. This means that if they have the single document
that the query is looking for, they retrieve it 100% of the time,
and if they don’t, then they acknowledge that they don’t have
it 100% of the time with no chance of mistakes. We make
this assumption as Semantica aims to optimize query-routing
and we leave local search out of scope. Network addresses
can change over time, and nodes may join or leave at will.
Existing decentralized overlays (e.g., DHTs [26], Publish-
Subscribe approaches [30]) typically fall short when dealing
with fuzzy or semantic-based queries, where straightforward
hashing of content keys is inadequate to find query relevant
documents.
We assume that users have overlap, i.e., co-occurrence, in
the documents that they store. To show that this is a realistic
assumption, we determine the co-occurrence of documents
and the cosine similarity of users, sampled from a real-world
data set. We evaluate the AOL4PS [12] data set, consisting of
187 521 websites accessed by 12 907 users over the course of
three months in 2006, totaling 1 339 101 queries. In Figure 1a,
we show that 6 978 users have at least one co-occurring
document (i.e., website) with another user. Secondarily, this
implies that contacting the remaining 5 929 users for any
search would not be useful and an efficient search solution
should not connect to them. To show that these documents can
be used for semantic search, we calculate the average of the
embeddings of the documents accessed by users. We calculate
these document embeddings using BERT [14]. In Figure 1b,
we show that the maximum cosine similarity between user
embeddings is mostly over 0.93. This means that, for users
that do have document co-occurrence, another user exists with
high semantic overlap, which our solution leverages.
We propose to utilize the vector embeddings of documents
and queries, obtained from pre-trained large language models
(LLMs) [18]. Vector embeddings are numerical representations
of the data such as words and sentences. Every node can
compute or obtain embeddings for its documents, for instance
by running a local LLM or querying an external embedding
service. A node issues a query in the form of an embedding
of a textual query that captures the desired semantic content.
Our overarching goal is to design an overlay protocol that
enables queries to find semantically relevant documents with
minimal network communication and computation overhead.
Specifically, we seek to (i) support semantic search , where
nodes match queries based on embeddings rather than exact
keys; (ii) maintain a predictive topology, where nodes sharing
similar content are connected to one another, thus reducing
query path length and lookup times; (iii) operate in a fully

3
(a) Maximum document co-occurrence with another user per
user, sorted by users with the highest co-occurrence first.
(b) Maximum cosine similarity of mean-document-embedding
with another user per user, sorted by users with the highest
similarity first.
Fig. 1: User similarity in the AOL4PS data set.
distributed manner, accommodating a large number of nodes;
and (iv) avoid the cost and complexity of large-scale training,
by leveraging pre-trained or lightly tuned LLMs at each node.
Decentralized semantic search faces obstacles arising from
the partial knowledge at each node. Even if a document is
highly relevant, it may reside on a remote node that is un-
known to the query initiator. Maintaining a network structure
that places semantically similar peers near each other can miti-
gate this problem, but doing so requires continuous adaptation.
Users may discover new documents or alter their interests,
causing embedding changes. Nodes may also relocate or leave,
meaning the overlay must be robust to churn. Furthermore,
limited bandwidth and computational resources—especially if
embeddings are computed on commodity hardware or mobile
devices—place strict constraints on any adaptive protocol.
Our objective is to show that a predictive overlay, built
directly from each node’s local embeddings, can preserve
scalability by limiting reliance on keeping a global state,
while remaining flexible enough to handle evolving interests.
Such an overlay dynamically places nodes with similar content
“virtually close” to each other in the network, so that queries
naturally travel to relevant peers without exhaustive searching.
The resulting system promises to offer a semantic retrieval
akin to that of a centralized engine, yet operates entirely in a
peer-to-peer environment.
III. R ELATED WORK
Information retrieval is a vast field. For conciseness, we
only discuss the methods that are most closely related to the
contribution of our work, namely: decentralized retrieval and
retrieval based on machine learning techniques. Hereby, we
also omit related work such as database technology, which
is necessary to store documents that require retrieval. Our
discussion of related work is centered around the following
defining characteristics, also shown in Table I:
• Semantic Search : whether documents can be retrieved
from users by utilizing semantics, instead of a fixed
unique key.
• Predictive Cache: whether network connections are con-
structed (in a network overlay) such that documents are
likely to be available from existing connections.
• Distributed: whether documents are (sparsely) dis-
tributed among users that can form connections and
retrieve documents from each other.
• Training Requirement : whether the solution must be
trained on a data set in order to meet its performance
targets of latency and accuracy, and must be retrained to
update its index.
Early peer-to-peer search provided key-value matching from
content items to users’ search queries that consist of keywords.
For example, Napster allowed users to search their indexing
servers for songs, based on song title [5], and KaZaA would
later replace servers with peers [16]. This was similar to the
keyword-based search of early web page indexers like Google
Search [4]. However, generally, to search for information that
is sparsely available from different users, distributed search
algorithms are required. In some use-cases, distributed search
algorithms are trivialized, when all information should be
spread to all users. For instance, in blockchain networks like
Bitcoin [19] and Ethereum [33] information is spread to all
users and they can use techniques like flooding or gossip [30].
In our work, we do not make assumptions about search being
limited to keyword-based search or to trivial use-cases where
all information is spread to all users.
Modern structured networks allow efficient search. The
essence of these networks is to predict user searches and
connect users to caches of information. These localized caches
appear in most networking research that structures network
topologies around its data, e.g., Content-Centric Network-
ing and Information-Centric Networking [31], and Content-
Oriented Networking and Data-Oriented Networking [6]. Typ-
ically, a variant of the Publish-Subscribe [30] model is used,
in which users subscribe to the information (cache) of a
publisher. In our work, we do not assume content comes from
known publishers.
In distributed systems research, content is typically ad-
dressed by a pre-known hash. These hashes allow networks

4
to be structured as a tree, or Distributed Hash Table [30].
For example, DHTs like Chord [26] or Kademlia [17] use
these trees to group users based on the hashes of their user
identifiers to the hashes of the data they want to search for.
Our work uses a similar approach for efficient search using
users that self-organize in tree topologies. However, we do
not assume users know the hash of the data they are looking
for, but instead only know the semantics of that data. For
example, a “red car” and not a “Ferrari 250 GT California
Spyder SWB (1959)”.
The idea of using semantics in peer-to-peer overlay net-
works for search stems from the early 2000’s [28]. In their
work on Semantic Overlay Networks (SONs), Tang et al.
already point out the scalability limits of approaches that
depend on (non-semantic) keywords in a DHT, like that of
Li et al. [15]. The idea of using ontology trees for efficient
semantic search is now more than two decades old [7].
However, these works assumed that a reliable taxonomy is
available to create such a tree: this is (still) not the case.
In lieu of a taxonomy, Latent Semantic Indexing (LSI)
of data can be used. These indices fulfill “adjustable repre-
sentational richness”, “explicit representation of both terms
and documents”, and “computational tractability for large
datasets” [8], which we freely interpret as a dynamic, scalable
and efficient data structure, such as a tree. The matrix-based
algorithm to fulfill the requirements of LSI by Deerwester et
al. [8] would later be misconstrued by many citing works as
“the LSI algorithm”, when it really is only one of the many
possible implementations. That algorithm in particular, used
singular value decomposition (SVD), which is one of the many
techniques for word embedding [13]. Even so, considering
semantic information, using Deerwester et al.’s algorithm,
provides superior retrieval accuracy to faster word-frequency-
based approaches like TF-IDF [34]. Our work uses LLMs to
construct a Latent Semantic Index using a tree.
More recent approaches to capture the semantics of words,
or sequences of words, require some form of training . For
example, GloVe [21] uses on-line learning to create word vec-
tors (embeddings) based on global word-word co-occurrence
counts. Moving beyond word embeddings, early models for
sequence-to-sequence applications, like BERT [14], were de-
signed to incorporate positional encoding of words using atten-
tion, i.e., transformers [32]. Specifically, BERT was designed
to handle NLP tasks and require minimal fine-tuning [14].
Later models using transformers, LLMs, became better at more
generalized tasks [18] (and arguably worse at NLP). However,
LLMs require much less computing resources [23], making
them a good fit for consumer hardware. Most importantly,
pre-trained LLM models are widely available. In our work,
we leverage pre-trained models without further training.
A recent influential approach in non-distributed document
retrieval based on embeddings is Differentiable Search Index
(DSI) by Tay et al. [29]. In their work, they train a (sequence-
to-sequence) transformer model to retrieve documents. The
model uses its semantic understanding of a user query to
retrieve a document identifier, which they refer to as “Semantic
String Docids”. Hereby, the transformer model is used as
a form of latent semantic indexing, though the authors do
not mention this. Furthermore, the paper does not touch on
its applicability to a decentralized, or distributed, context. In
their De-DSI approach, Neague et al. [20] do consider such
a context. In their decentralized approach, they fine-tune a
global network by exchanging documents with network peers.
However, efficiency at scale is not yet considered and the time
complexity increases as the network grows [20]. In our work,
we use the semantic understanding of sequence-to-sequence
models without any further training and our work does scale
with the network size as we use a tree data structure.
The state-of-the-art Graph-Diffusion algorithm by Giat-
soglou et al. [11] uses graph diffusion with Personalized
PageRank [10] to spread summarized representations of each
node’s content across the network. Each node generates a sin-
gle “node embedding” by aggregating embeddings of its local
documents. This node embedding, representing the general
content of the node, is diffused to neighboring nodes, which
then continues to propagate these embeddings further across
the network. Through this layered diffusion process, each node
acquires generalized information about distant nodes’ content,
enabling the decentralized network to guide queries toward
relevant content even when the content is stored multiple hops
away. Our work makes use of these findings and uses diffusion,
called “expansion rounds”, to incrementally improve a node’s
connections to other nodes, to better fit its embedding.
The query forwarding process of Giatsoglou et al. [11] is
controlled by a time-to-live limit, restricting the number of
hops a query can travel to prevent indefinite circulation. When
a node receives a query, it calculates a relevance score between
the query and the stored node embeddings of neighboring
nodes, forwarding the query toward those with the highest
scores. Experimental results show that this method effectively
finds content within a few hops but encounters reduced ac-
curacy as document density and search radius increase. This
makes the method suitable for localized content search in
P2P networks, though additional refinements would be needed
for scaling to larger document volumes and wider search
ranges. We show that our work requires less hops to retrieve
information and operates with larger document volumes.
IV. D ESIGN OF SEMANTICA
Semantica places every user in a space whereby their
neighbors are interested in the same kind of items that the user
is interested in. In order to place the users in this arrangement,
we propose an algorithm for constructing a hierarchically-
clustered tree in embedding space.
Each user ui ∈ U is equipped with an identical large
language model (LLM) to compute embeddings for their
accessed documents Di. For each document dij ∈ Di, the
embedding Dij is calculated using the LLM:
Dij = LLM(dij). (1)
Subsequently, the embedding of the user, Ui, is determined
as the mean of the embeddings of all documents read by that
user:
Ui = 1
|Di|
X
j
Dij. (2)

5
Root Node Separation Function
Fig. 2: Example diagram showcasing how the clustering algo-
rithm will construct the tree. The clustering implemented for
this figure is a rudimentary one for presentation purposes.
Once user embeddings are computed, the construction of
the semantic tree begins. The algorithm is formally presented
in Algorithm 1. The algorithm starts by initializing a root node
Nroot. Network users U that are to be added to the tree are
processed in a loop. Initially, the root node is considered a
leaf-node which can hold a limited number of users M.
A. Tree construction
When the root node is filled with more than that limit M,
it triggers a K-means clustering process with k = 2. We have
not attempted to vary k during this research project and it was
always fixed at 2. As a result of the clustering, it spawns two
child-nodes, each associated with one of the clusters. Users in
the current node are then reassigned to one of the child-nodes,
corresponding to the cluster they belong to. The root node is
no longer a leaf of the tree (since it now has children) and is
thus transformed into a split-node. Additionally, we propose
a form of “soft-clustering” which works by measuring the
normed euclidean distance to each of the two centroids in split-
nodes. If the difference of the two distances is smaller than
a threshold, the user “clones” themselves and traverses both
paths. We refer to the act of “cloning” oneself to mean that
the user instead of choosing to go on only one path down the
tree, will instead go down both paths. In cloning, the user does
not create a new IP for a different position. We use cloning in
order to reach a larger number of users with high similarity to
us in the tree. In our paper, the tree acts only as a facilitator
of efficient information exchange: once the user ends up in a
leaf-node, it uses the position to obtain the peers in the leaf-
node, and other peers will be able to find the user if they reach
the same leaf-node.
In order to place themselves in the tree, the next user in
the loop would navigate the tree by comparing themselves
with the centroids of each split-node along the way, cloning
themselves if the conditions above are met, until a leaf-node
is found which is not yet full. This method does not require
users coming into the network in a particular order, and is able
to assign users to leaf-nodes in a dynamic manner resembling
peers in real networks entering the system.
Algorithm 1 Dynamic Tree Construction (with Euclidean
Dist. & On-the-fly Cloning)
Input: UsersU, documents D, max users per leaf node M,
distance threshold ∆
Output: A hierarchically clustered tree T
1: Initialize root node Nroot, T ={Nroot}
2: Shuffle usersU randomly
3: for each user ui∈U do
4: Compute document embeddings Dij with Equation 1
for all documents dij∈D i
5: Compute user embedding Ui as per Equation 2
6: n← nroot {Start tree traversal at the root}
7: while n is not a leaf node do
8: Let n1 and n2 be the two child nodes of n
9: Compute d1 =∥Ui− Cn1∥2 {Normed Euclidean
distance to centroid of n1}
10: Compute d2 =∥Ui− Cn2∥2
11: {Check if ui is “close enough” to both centroids to
warrant cloning}
12: if
 d1− d2
 < ∆ then
13: {Clone ui into the other branch as well}
14: Clone ui into both children n1 and n2
15: end if
16: {Traverse into whichever child centroid iscloser (i.e.,
smaller distance)}
17: if d1≤ d2 then
18: n← n1
19: else
20: n← n2
21: end if
22: end while
23: {Now n is a leaf node; assign ui here}
24: n.users← n.users∪{ ui}
25: if|n.users| > M then
26: {Perform k=2-means clustering on n.users}
27: {C1,C2}← kMeans(n.users, k = 2)
28: Let Cn1 and Cn2 be the resulting centroids
29: Create two child nodes n1, n2 of n
30: n1.users←C 1, n2.users←C 2
31: Link n in T with its children n1 and n2
32: {Leaf node n becomes an internal (split) node}
33: end if
34: end for
35: Return the final tree T
For a simplified and intuitive visualization of the hierarchi-
cal clustering effect in two dimensions, see Figure 2. Each
dotted line represents a branching function, separating two
branches of a split-node. Each region belongs to a leaf node
in the semantic tree and is named according to the branches
traveled to reach it. First, a separating line is calculated that

6
splits the tree from the root node: all clusters on its left
start with 0 and all clusters on its right start with 1. That
represents the first split-node of the tree. On each resulting
branch another separating line is calculated, and so on. The
users located in the same leaf-node are more likely to hold
common documents than users far away in the constructed
tree. Thus, the tree-based clustering mechanism presented in
this paper allows easier discovery of users who hold similar
items. Note that this method returns an approximation of the
optimal neighborhoods for users. Such an approximation is
a necessary trade-off in a decentralized environment where
computation of the optimal neighborhoods (i.e., the set of
most similar users to every user) is very costly and thus not
practical, due to the communication complexity required to
compute it. In later Sections in this paper, we analyze the
quality of our approximation empirically and we also analyze
the complexity of the proposed computation method.
B. Semantic neighbor discovery
Algorithm 2 Closest Users Maintenance and Expansion
Rounds
Input: UsersU, embeddings Ui for each user ui, number of
closest users for the current user ncu
Output: Updated “closest-users” and “known-users” lists for
each user
1: Initialization:
2: for each user ui∈U do
3: Gather ncc closest users for each clone of ui into
ui.known-users
4: Sort ui.known-users by cosine similarity to Ui
5: Set ui.closest-users as the top ncu users from
ui.known-users
6: end for
7: Expansion Rounds:
8: for each round r = 1 to rmax do
9: for each user ui∈U do
10: Query a random uj ∈ ui.closest-users for a closer
user uk /∈ ui.known-users
11: if uk is closer to Ui than the 50th user in
ui.closest-users then
12: Add uk to ui.known-users
13: Recompute ui.closest-users as the top ncu users
from ui.known-users
14: end if
15: end for
16: end for
17: Output: Return updated closest-users for all users
Once a user has stabilized into a leaf-node, it acquires
the addresses of the ncc nearest neighbors for each of its
clones. For a visualization, we refer to Figure 3. We show a
hypothetical tree containing a number of split-nodes (colored
in green) and leaf-nodes (colored in blue and purple, and
numbered). A hypothetical user follows the purple dotted line,
clones themselves on the second split-node and ends up in leaf-
nodes 3 and 7. Each clone collects the closest ncc other users
1 2
53 4
6 7
Fig. 3: Tree example diagram. The green nodes represent
split-nodes and the blue/purple numbered nodes represent the
leaves.
from their location. If ncc is larger than the number of users
placed in the leaf node of a clone, it performs a Breadth-First-
Search (BFS) algorithm to find nearby leaf-nodes and collects
users placed in them (in a random order) until ncc users are
found in the vicinity of each clone. In this case, the clone
placed in leaf 3 would first collect users in leaf 4 (as that is
the closest leaf-node to leaf 3) and the clone in leaf 7 collects
users in leaf 6. If the number of users collected is not large
enough, the BFS is performed further, and so on.
Users combine the contacts gathered from all their clones
and compute cosine similarity between their own embedding
and the embedding of each of their gathered contacts. The
top ncu most similar peers are stored in a closest-users list.
This list is useful for limiting the number of contacts queried,
reducing strain on the network. The most similar peers are
also the ones most likely to have the relevant documents.
While the tree structure helps cluster similar users into
the same leaf nodes, recall that it is an approximation. Due
to the nature of hierarchical clustering, some peers who are
highly similar may end up in different leaf nodes. To address
this, peers periodically ask a randomly chosen user from their
closest-users list if they know anyone who is more similar
to them than the ncu’th closest (i.e., the least close) user
in their list. If so, they are added to the peer’s known-users
list, improving the accuracy of their closest-users selection
and overall network connectivity. This procedure follows the
pseudo-code in Algorithm 2.
Unlike tree construction, which uses Euclidean distance to
cluster users, expansion rounds rely on cosine similarity to
refine user connections. This ensures that search results align
with semantic relationships rather than just spatial proximity.
This process is simultaneous (asynchronous) for all peers
and we refer to it as one expansion-round.
C. Query Model
Once the network is established and each user has con-
structed their closest-users list, queries can be performed to
search for desired documents. The proposed query mechanism,

7
termed chain-hopping, dynamically adapts the query path
based on semantic similarity. This approach aims to minimize
network load while maintaining high accuracy.
In chain-hop querying, a user initiates a query by con-
tacting itself. If the desired document is not found in the
user’s local storage, the query is forwarded to another user
from the user’s closest-users list who is closest to the query
embedding (in terms of cosine similarity). If the document is
not found in this other user’s storage too, the process repeats
iteratively, with each user forwarding the query to the next
most semantically relevant user, until the desired document is
found or a predefined maximum hop limit is reached. We have
tested other querying methods but have found that this one
retrieves most documents regardless of the graph in which it
is implemented, so we only present the result for this querying-
method. This method ensures that the query traverses the
network in a targeted manner, focusing only on users likely
to hold the desired document. The adaptive nature of chain-
hopping allows it to efficiently discover documents even in a
highly distributed and dynamically evolving network.
• Network Overhead. Each hop traversal involves a single
message being sent from the current user to the next
closest user in the query chain. For a query traversing
up to ℓ hops, the network overhead is O(ℓ) messages.
• Local Computation Cost. At each hop, the current
user calculates the cosine similarity between the query
embedding and the embeddings of all users in their
closest-users list. For a list of size k, this incurs a local
cost ofO(k) per hop. Across ℓ hops, the total local cost
isO(ℓ· k).
• Advantages. The chain-hopping method is both resource-
efficient and highly adaptable, as it prioritizes semanti-
cally relevant paths through the network without flooding
unnecessary nodes.
Algorithm 3 Chain-Hop Query Processing
Input: Query embedding Q, max hop limit ℓ
Output: Matching documents R
1: Initialize current user u = uq (query initiator)
2: Initialize hop count h = 0
3: while h < ℓ and required document not found do
4: Query u for matching documents
5: if match found then
6: Return matching documents R
7: end if
8: Find uclosest = arg maxv∈u.closest-users Similarity(Q, Uv)
9: Update u = uclosest
10: Increment hop count: h← h + 1
11: end while
12: Output: Return R (empty if no match found within ℓ
hops)
V. I MPLEMENTATION AND PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS
This section outlines the methods used to evaluate the
proposed system. The experiments focus on measuring the
success of the decentralized semantic tree structure in facilitat-
ing efficient and accurate document retrieval. Key evaluation
metrics include query accuracy within a certain number of
queries and the effectiveness of clustering mechanisms. The
evaluation methods are designed to test both the quality of
the tree structure and the performance of different query
mechanisms under varying conditions.
A. Experimental Setup
Our experimental setup requires data preparation, imple-
mentation of embeddings, parameterization of our tree and of
new user discovery. We now define our methods and values
to achieve them.
1) Data preparation and user embeddings:
• Records where a user accessed the same document
multiple times were filtered out and only the first ac-
cess by timestamp was chosen, corresponding to the
query which first led the user to the target website.
Users which had less than 30 unique documents in
their search history were filtered out.
• Each user’s documents were randomly split into a
“test” set (10 documents) and a “training” set (the
remaining documents). The assignment of each doc-
ument to either the train or test set was entirely ran-
dom. Since documents in this study correspond to
URL links, different sub-pages of the same domain
were treated as distinct documents. As a result, sub-
pages from the same domain could appear in both
the train and test sets. However, we do not consider
this to be a form of data leakage, as different URLs
have unique titles—the content scraped during the
construction of AOL4PS—which results in distinct
embeddings.1
• User embeddings are computed as the mean embed-
ding of their training document titles.
2) Tree construction:
• Users are added sequentially to a root node, with
nodes splitting when they exceed a capacity of L =
50 users.
• Users near the cluster boundary (difference between
the distances to both centroids < ∆) are cloned into
both child nodes during splits.
• Each user computes a “known-users” list based on
proximity to other users in the same or nearby leaf
nodes.
• From the “known-users” list, each user generates a
”closest-users” list containing the ncu most similar
users.
3) Known-users expansion:
• Users iteratively refine their “closest-users” list by
querying random neighbors in their “known-users”
list to identify closer peers based on cosine similar-
ity.
1In future work, other splitting criteria (e.g. based on timestamps) may also
be considered. Random splitting is common in related datasets such as the
MovieLens dataset.

8
• Expansion rounds continue until a pre-specified
number of interactions is reached or the “closest-
users” list stabilizes.
B. Experiment designs
We design three experiments to evaluate the performance
of Semantica. The first experiment measures how fast
connected users are identified as semantically-similar. The
second experiment measures the communication required to
retrieve documents. The final experiment targets the efficacy
of Semantica, in respect of the number of semantically-
similar users that are connected.
Experiment 1: Closest-User Identification with a Limited
Number of Interactions. This experiment evaluates the ability
of Semantica to identify the addresses of users who are
closest in embedding space to a given user, as measured by
cosine similarity. To establish a baseline, we calculate the
cosine similarity between each user and every other user in
the dataset, generating a global list of the 50 closest peers for
every user based on these cosine similarity values. This global
list represents the ground truth for evaluation.
After constructing the tree using Semantica, we compute
the closest-users set for each user by relying solely on the local
neighbor information and interactions facilitated by the tree
structure (as per Algorithms 1 and 2). The accuracy of this set
is then assessed by calculating the intersection between the
closest-users set derived from Semantica and the ground
truth list of the 50 closest peers. The absolute size of this
intersection, serves as a measure of absolute-recall-out-of-50
which will be referred to as recall in the rest of the text.
To explore the impact of different parameters, we compare
the recall obtained for various values of ∆. Additionally, we
contrast these results with the recall achieved when performing
expansion rounds on a Barab ´asi–Albert graph. The m param-
eter of the Barab ´asi–Albert graph, which controls the average
degree of the graph, is adjusted to match the average graph size
obtained using Semantica. This experiment showcases the
speed of identification of the specific users who are closest
in embedding space to a peer when using Semantica vs
performing this identification randomly.
Experiment 2: Document Retrieval Mechanisms. The
effectiveness of Semantica is assessed through a query
mechanism inspired by the method presented in the work
of Giatsoglou et al.[11], which evaluates the efficiency and
accuracy of document retrieval. The retrieval process begins
with a query initiated by a user seeking a document. The query
is first sent to the user whose embedding is closest to the query
embedding of the requester.
If the queried user does not have a matching document in
their local document set, they proceed to evaluate their known-
users list. Each neighbor in the list is compared against the
query embedding using cosine similarity, and the query is for-
warded to the neighbor with the highest similarity score. This
forwarding process continues iteratively, up to a predefined
maximum of max hops hops.
After all users in the network have sent the queries from
their respective test sets, the performance of the system is
measured as the percentage of queries successfully resolved
within the specified hop limit. This metric provides a clear
indication of the system’s ability to locate and retrieve doc-
uments efficiently under the constraints of the decentralized
network.
Experiment 3: Smallest Distance to a Target Document.
The effectiveness of Semantica can also be evaluated by
measuring the minimum number of hops required to locate a
specific document from the position of a randomly selected
user. Unlike the query-based evaluation in the previous exper-
iment, this analysis does not rely on targeted querying of the
closest user to the query embedding. Instead, it considers the
absolute distance, in terms of hops, to any user who possesses
the required document.
An ideal algorithm would organize peers in such a way
that the majority of documents are accessible within a small
number of hops for most users, while maintaining a constant
average number of connections per peer. To assess this, we
construct a directed graph using Semantica and compare it
to an equivalent Barab ´asi-Albert graph. The m parameter in
the Barab ´asi-Albert graph, representing the number of edges
added for each new node, is selected to match the average
degree of the graph created by Semantica.
This comparison provides a metric for the efficacy of
Semantica in respect of minimizing hop distances while
preserving the structural efficiency of the network.
VI. R ESULTS AND DISCUSSION
This section presents the results of the three experiments
described in Section V-B.
A. Closest User Recall
The purpose of this experiment is to determine the efficiency
of discovery of most similar peers, focused specifically in a
converged network.
We refer to the number of closest-peers successfully found
as “closest user recall”. In Figure 4 we show the result of
this analysis. We can see that constructing the tree without
expansion rounds does not yield a high mean recall per
user, though increasing ∆ does help. However, when ∆ is
larger than zero, asking people in our closest neighborhood
increases the mean recall substantially, to the point where if
we undertake 20 rounds of known-users expansion we can find
almost all of the required users (more than 40 for all ∆’s).
But under normal circumstances we can also get high
recall by just asking peers randomly, without taking into
consideration the tree structure.
To investigate this, we implemented a simulation where
each peer had the same number of known-users as they did
at the start of the ∆ = 0 .001 experiment (before the expan-
sion rounds), but the list of known-users is randomized for
each peer. Then, we followed the expansion-rounds algorithm
the same way as when constructing Semantica. We chose
∆ = 0.001 as the representative parameter for the size of the
graph because it was the experiment with the largest number of
known-users before any expansion round was performed. This
means that by obtaining a higher recall than the baseline with

9
Fig. 4: Effect of expansion rounds on closest-neighbor recall
for different ∆ values.
any of the ∆ values shown in Figure 4, the tree algorithm
increases the chance of finding the closest peers in cosine-
similarity space.
Figure 4 highlights the significant advantage provided by
the tree structure, even before any expansion rounds take
place. Semantica outperforms the baseline by an order of
magnitude at initialization: the random method achieves a
recall of approximately 0.4, whereas all Semantica configu-
rations exceed 5. As expansion rounds progress, Semantica
continues to maintain a substantial lead. By round 10, the
random baseline reaches a recall of about 5, while Semantica
achieves a recall of approximately 35 for∆ = 0.001 and 30 for
∆ = 0.0005. However, for ∆ = 0, the recall does not increase
significantly with additional expansion rounds. This limitation
arises because, with a very limited or non-functional cloning
mechanism, users within the same leaf-node share identical
neighbors. Consequently, querying neighbors reveals largely
redundant information, limiting the effectiveness of expansion
rounds. The benefit of expansion rounds becomes apparent
when cloning and moderate ∆ values are utilized. These mech-
anisms introduce diversity in the network by ensuring users
have some disjoint contacts, enabling meaningful information
exchange and thus improving recall performance. Without this
function, expansion rounds would not work when combined
with the tree as it is presented in this paper.
Figure 5 illustrates the distribution of clones per user at
∆ = 0 .001, the upper threshold identified in Figure 4. The
distribution reveals a clear decreasing exponential trend, with
approximately 5100 of the 6980 users remaining unaffected by
the cloning mechanism. This result suggests that ∆ can be set
high enough to significantly improve the recall of similar users
without causing a substantial increase in system complexity.
The modest number of clones and their limited impact on
the majority of users underscores the efficiency of the chosen
configuration.
Table II provides a detailed breakdown of the expected
number of clones per user across various ∆ values. The results
indicate that at approximately ∆ = 0 .001, the number of
Fig. 5: Number of clones per user for ∆ = 0.001.
clones per user begins to increase more rapidly, signaling a
notable rise in the computational burden imposed by soft clus-
tering. When ∆ reaches 0.005, the expected number of clones
per user exceeds 7, potentially amplifying the complexity for
that user significantly. While these findings are specific to
the AOL4PS dataset, the exponential growth in clones as ∆
increases is likely to occur in other datasets as well, though
the threshold at which this growth becomes significant may
vary depending on the data characteristics.
TABLE II: Number of clones per user for different ∆
Delta Median Mean Std
0 1 1.0000 0.00
1e-6 1 1.0001 0.01
5e-6 1 1.0012 0.03
1e-5 1 1.0027 0.05
5e-5 1 1.0127 0.11
1e-4 1 1.0259 0.16
5e-4 1 1.1489 0.41
1e-3 1 1.3224 0.64
3e-3 2 2.7560 2.25
5e-3 5 7.4497 8.08
B. Document retrieval accuracy with query chain-hopping
This experiment was meant to determine the effectiveness of
query hopping while utilizing Semantica as opposed to random
query hopping in a random graph of similar structure (same
mean degree of nodes). We also compared the accuracy of the
graph-diffusion algorithm proposed by Giatsoglou et al. [11]
in the same graph for different values of teleportation-chance.
The teleportation-chance determines the level of diffusion
performed in the graph.
The results for the chain-hop method versus the graph-
diffusion method, for various alpha values, are shown in
Figure 6. Figure 6a shows the accuracy at different number
of queries sent to the network if queries are sent to random
peers. So, assuming everybody knows everybody else, and
each person chooses to send nq queries in the network and
chooses the peers randomly, we get the accuracy curve shown
in Figure 6a. Figure 6b shows the accuracy for the random-
baseline, Semantica with ∆ = 0.003 and 10 expansion rounds,

10
and graph-diffusion for between 2 and 600 queries. Graph-
diffusion is implemented in a Barab ´asi-Albert graph with m =
104. The m=104 was chosen because it creates a graph with
the same amount of connections as the mean value of “Known-
Users” for Semantica with the parameters specified above (i.e.
approximately 208). From the figure we can observe that:
• Graph-diffusion with alpha = 1.0 performs better than
alpha = 0.9, which is better than alpha = 0.5, which itself
performs better than alpha = 0.1. This indeed follows
the results of the authors of the paper showing that
higher levels of alpha (i.e. lower levels of diffusion)
generally lead to better results. Including any diffusion in
the system degrades the retrieval accuracy. So the actual
algorithm to beat is the simple query chain hop with a
graph constructed randomly.
• When we consider a maximum of two-hops per query,
Semantica retrieves 12.75% of required documents while
any of the other methods achieve less than 6%. The
larger the number of queries, the smaller the magni-
tude of the difference. This is because as the number
of hops available increases, the initial position of the
node matters less and less. The initial position of the
node determines an increase of the retrieval accuracy
because the neighborhood constructed through Semantica
increases the chances that nearby users have our required
document. If they do not, after the hop takes a few wrong
turns, we arrive in a situation where the query is now
in another neighborhood altogether, and from here all
benefits of using the semantic tree disappear.
C. Semantica tree versus diffusion graph trade-offs
To evaluate the performance of the Semantica algorithm
in a scenario where the graph-diffusion algorithm is enhanced,
we constructed Figure 7. In this figure, we first use the
Semantica algorithm to build a directed graph based on
the known-users lists of each peer in a tree with ∆ = 0 .001
and 10 expansion rounds. We then generate a Barab ´asi-Albert
graph with an m-value chosen to match the mean degree of
the known-users graph produced by the tree algorithm.
With these graphs constructed, we calculate the minimum
hop distance to a node which has the required document.
Figure 7 presents the Barab ´asi-Albert graph in yellow and the
Tree-based graph in light blue. The tree algorithm, as expected
knowing the results presented so far, shifts many documents
from a distance larger than one to a distance equal to one.
But there is also another effect which shifts the documents at
a distance of 2 to a distance of 3 (with few at a distance of
4 and 5), and also makes some documents unreachable (since
some sub-graphs are unconnected to the rest of the network).
We saw in Figure 6 that the graph created with Semantica
yielded better results up to 200 hops per query. It is then to
be expected that as the number of hops increases heavily (to
the point where we reach a significant section of the entire
population), that the Barab ´asi-Albert based graph would start
overtaking the Semantica-based graph simply because some
of the documents are unreachable in it.
(a) Random Query Baseline
(b) Comparison of retrieval rate at 50 queries sent to the network
Fig. 6: Accuracy Comparison.
The lengthening of the required hop-distance effect is due to
the fact that peers cluster together and have each other in their
known-users list. This means that the peers in a group are less
likely to hold connections outside of the group. If a document
which is not part of the interests of the group is required,
then the distance to the closest peer who has that document
could very well go up. While the tree method improves the
accuracy overall, if we would like to consider complex chain-
hopping techniques, it would be best to take into consideration
a combination of meeting users with the tree method and with
a random meeting procedure. This would connect disparate
groups and ensure that users could get easier through the
network.
VII. A LGORITHM COMPLEXITY
This section analyzes the complexity of building and main-
taining the proposed semantic tree (Algorithm 1) and the com-
plexity of processing queries (Algorithm 2 and our querying
methods). We consider both the average scenario, in which
user embeddings are reasonably well-distributed (yielding a
near-balanced tree), and a worst-case scenario, in which the
data distribution is extremely skewed (e.g., most users cluster

11
Fig. 7: Minimum distance to the correct document for tree with
∆ = 0.001 and 10 expansion-rounds, and a random Barab ´asi-
Albert graph with m = 86.
in a single region of the embedding space). Throughout our
analysis, embedding size is a constant factor (768 dimensions)
and not shown explicitly.
A. Complexity of Tree Construction
Our algorithm is based on four distinct functionalities: inser-
tion of new users, leaf-splitting, user cloning, and expansion-
rounds. We now discuss their individual time complexity.
Insertion of Users into the Tree. Each user is inserted
by starting at the root and traversing down to a leaf node,
comparing the user’s embedding with the child-node centroids
at each split-node. The average case to be investigated is the
situation where the tree is near-balanced. If splits are fairly
balanced, the tree height isO(log N), where N is the number
of users. Inserting one user costs O(log N) in traversal, so
inserting all N users totalsO(N log N). Network-wide, each
insertion takes log N hops from root to leaf.
In some situations, the tree could potentially be unbalanced.
In order for this situation to occur, we need a large number
of users at each level of the tree to be significantly closer
together and few users to be outside of the main cluster. It is
conceivable that a large number of leaf-nodes would contain
exactly one person. This would require that, assuming we start
with 50 users, the 51’st user is very far away. This would
lead to the centroid having the same coordinates as the user
itself, thus leading to a leaf-node of 1 person. In order for this
situation to occur on a large scale, each split must obey this
sort of structure. But this structure is itself assuming that every
split would have a cluster of almost 50 people and another
cluster of 1 or 2. It also assumes that no new users would go
down that path either. This specific structure is very unlikely
to occur in real situations at multiple depths of the tree, thus
the complexity can be assumed to be in the vast majority of
situations O(logN ). In the very unlikely scenario where this
structure of user embeddings occurs, the tree would be O(N)
in height, costing O(N), leading to O(N 2) overall.
To illustrate potential skew or uniformity in leaf sizes,
Figure 8 shows a histogram of the normalized number of
Fig. 8: Normalized number of users per leaf node for ∆∈
{0, 0.005} (filtered dataset). A larger ∆ increases the fraction
of leaves with very few users leading to a more skewed tree.
users per leaf node for two different ∆ values. Larger ∆
tends to create more leaves with very few users, indicating
some unbalanced splits. Nevertheless, one can see that the
majority of leafs do hold about the users following a uniform
distribution, even for very large ∆.
Complexity of Leaf Splits Clustering. A leaf that exceeds
M users triggers k=2 means clustering on its user embeddings
to produce two child nodes. Each split reassigns up toM users.
k=2 has cost O(M· I), where I is the number of iterations
in the k-means clustering ( I is often small for moderate M).
Because leaf nodes only split after exceeding M users, the
total number of splits is generally O(N/M). Summed over
all splits, clustering cost is O(N· I), typically dominated by
theO(N log N) insertion cost if I is small.
Complexity Incurred by User Cloning. If a user is within
threshold ∆ of multiple child centroids, it clones into both
subtrees. Let cavg be the average number of clones per user:
• With moderate ∆, cavg would be a small constant,
yielding a message complexity of O(cavg N log N) ≈
O(N log N) total. Computational complexity would also
be multiplied by cavg (as each clone would need to
compare itself with downstream centroids) and treated
in exactly the same manner.
• If ∆ is huge and the space is nearly uniform, cloning
can be excessive, but practical implementations such as
ours cap ∆ or would detect duplicates to prevent runaway
splitting.
Complexity of Expansion Rounds. After building the tree,
each user has an initial known-users list (obtained through leaf
peers and BFS to nearby nodes). In each expansion round ,
every user queries one of its known-users for any closer peers,
updating its closest-users list.
• Each round involves N messages total (one per user).
• Over rmax rounds, that is O(rmax N) messages. Local
updates per user are small (inserting/removing in a K-
size priority queue). Computing similarity scores between

12
the requesting person and all k neighbors incurs O(k)
cost for each round so O(rmaxk).
All in all, tree construction plus expansions is O(N log N +
rmax N) in messages and O(N log N + N r max kmean) in
computation requirements where kmean is the mean number of
neighbors for all users. In terms of network messages, we can
expect that under a large N, the N log N term will dominate.
However, in terms of computation requirements, assuming
each peer has a large number of known-users and the system
performs a sizable rmax expansion rounds, the N r max kmean
term may dominate.
The alternative to our expansion method would be to skip
the computation of similarity and just share every neighbor
with every asking person. However, this will exponentially
increase the number of neighbors of every participating user,
thereby overwhelming the network in terms of messages.
B. Query Complexity
Once the overlay is established, queries are processed using
a chain-hop method, where the query traverses the network
hop-by-hop to locate the most relevant document. Each query
originating from a user is forwarded iteratively through the
network based on semantic similarity. At each hop, the current
user evaluates if there is any document which would be a
satisfactory result to the query. Local keyword-search would
benefit from indexing but we assume some kind of semantic-
based search. In this case we can expect a complexity of O(d)
where d is the expected number of documents of a user. If
there is no relevant document found, the current user computes
the cosine similarity between the query embedding and the
embeddings of all its known neighbors. Then the current user
forwards the query to the neighbor most similar to it. This
process continues until the desired document is located or a
maximum number of hops, ℓ, is reached. In summary, the
complexity of this query method is defined by the following
two points.
• Network Overhead. Each query requires at most ℓ
messages, as the query is forwarded through up to ℓ
hops in the network. For a total of Q queries, the overall
network overhead is O(Q· ℓ).
• Local Computation. At each hop, the current user eval-
uates the cosine similarity between the query embedding
and the embeddings of all k neighbors. This incurs a local
cost of O(d + k) per hop. Over ℓ hops, the total local
computation per query is O(ℓ· (k + d)) .
In summary, the chain-hop method scales efficiently with
the number of queries and the size of the network, as the
overhead is linear in both Q and ℓ. Furthermore, its localized
computations ensure that individual users only process infor-
mation about their immediate neighbors, keeping the method
practical even for large-scale decentralized networks.
C. Summary and Remarks
Overall, our system achieves scalable performance under
realistic embedding distributions and moderate cloning thresh-
olds. We derive five complexity results.
In a typical near-balanced scenario, the tree height is
O(log N), and inserting N users costs O(N log N). In a
rare, highly skewed distribution, the tree can degenerate to
heightO(N), yieldingO(N 2) total insertion cost. Clustering
leaves of size above M via k-means further mitigates extreme
imbalance in real-world conditions.
After the tree is built, each user refines its local view by
running rmax expansion rounds. Each round involves O(N)
messages overall, and a local computation cost of O(k) per
user per round to compare embeddings. Hence, expansions
contribute up toO(rmax N) in messages andO(rmax k N) in
local cost. This remains manageable so long as rmax and k
remain small compared to N.
If a user lies near multiple centroids, it “clones” into more
than one subtree. As long as the average number of clones,
cavg, is bounded by a small constant (e.g. ≤ 10), the insertion
cost remainsO(N log N). Unbounded ∆ in a nearly uniform
space could inflate cavg, but practical caps on ∆ or duplicate
detection avert blow-ups.
For queries, the network overhead per query is O(ℓ) mes-
sages, and each user’s local cost at each hop is O(k + d),
covering similarity checks with k neighbors plus a d local
document lookup. Over ℓ hops, this yields O(ℓ(k + d)) local
cost per query, and O(Q· ℓ) total messages for Q queries.
Such localized lookups keep the method efficient, even at large
scale.
Under moderate ∆ and typical data, building and expanding
the semantic tree runs in O(N log N) (plusO(rmaxN) for
expansions), while chain-hop queries incur only O(ℓ) mes-
sages andO(ℓ(k+d)) local computation per query. In extreme
skew, insertion can degrade to O(N 2), although in such a
uniform embedding space, simpler random or flooding-based
mechanisms might suffice.
VIII. D EPLOYMENT CONSIDERATIONS
The simulations in Algorithms 1, 2, and 3 demonstrate
our approach under controlled conditions. Having presented
positive results from Section VI, we now outline how the same
concepts can be deployed in a fully decentralized environment.
In such a setting, no global coordinator or centralized server
exists, and each peer operates autonomously. The key assump-
tion dropped is that peers do not have universal knowledge
of the network (e.g., centroids); they only discover relevant
information through local interactions.
Custodians and Node Splits. In a fully decentralized ver-
sion, peers obtain centroid information for split-nodes through
a type of peer we call custodian. When a leaf node splits into a
split-node, one peer is selected (randomly or by consensus) to
act as the custodian of that split-node. The custodian stores the
newly created centroids and maps each centroid to the network
address (e.g., IP or overlay address) of the corresponding child
node. It then notifies the custodian of its parent node (if one
exists), thereby maintaining a chain of custodians from the root
down to all leaves. This mechanism ensures that future peers
traversing the tree can locate the relevant centroids at each
level without requiring a global index. A custodian thus holds
all centroids generated within its split-node, but not necessarily
those of unrelated splits occurring elsewhere in the tree.

13
Initialization and the Root Peer. A single peer, referred
to as the root peer , begins the construction of the tree by
creating an initial leaf node. Other peers discover the root peer
through out-of-band mechanisms such as a bootstrap server, a
public DHT, or a known reference address. Although this step
relies on a well-known root, the root peer does not serve as
a permanent coordinator or a single point of failure. Multiple
root peers can independently host the same tree. Additionally,
multiple trees can coexist, each dedicated to a particular topic
or language. Peers may opt to join any number of these trees,
allowing for diverse overlays within the same network.
Joining the Tree. When a new peer joins, it first requests
the centroid (or centroids) maintained at the entry point of the
tree. If the root node remains a leaf, the peer can be admitted
directly. Otherwise, the peer evaluates its normed Euclidean
distance to each child centroid of the current split-node. It
then contacts the custodian responsible for the node that best
matches its embedding (and can contact more than one if the
distance difference is below ∆). This process repeats until the
peer (and all of its clones) reaches a genuine leaf-node and
is inserted there. If the leaf-node’s user count exceeds M,
the peers at that leaf run k-means clustering (based on local
consensus) to produce two new centroids and split the leaf
into two child nodes. All members are reassigned according
to their distance to the new centroids and a custodian for the
new split-node is chosen.
Neighbor Expansion. After a peer has joined the tree,
it periodically executes the neighbor-expansion process ( cf.
Algorithm 2) to refine its local view of the network. During
each expansion round, the peer queries one of its known
neighbors for potential peers that lie closer in embedding
space, thereby updating its closest-users list. This step
aligns with the decentralized spirit of the algorithm: no global
knowledge is assumed, and each peer maintains a limited
neighbor set discovered incrementally.
Considerations and Potential Extensions. The decentral-
ized approach outlined here is flexible but also faces real-world
challenges. If a custodian departs (voluntarily or otherwise),
its centroid data becomes unavailable. A backup custodian
election mechanism, such as assigning a secondary custodian,
could mitigate this issue. Likewise, although multiple root
peers permit diverse trees to exist simultaneously, peers may
need to manage several connections and sets of centroids
if they participate in multiple overlays. Solutions such as
automatic peer re-election, replication, or fallback references
can bolster resilience, but these refinements are outside the
immediate scope of this work.
Currently, no mechanism was chosen to re-balance the tree
if too many users have dropped out. This could lead to leaf-
nodes being almost entirely depopulated in a section of the
tree. Without some kind of re-balancing process happening the
tree could tend to become highly imbalanced, thereby negating
much of the advantage of the N log N complexity. Automatic
re-balancing by contacting nearby leaf-nodes to check their
population size could mitigate this issue, but it was also not
part of the scope of this paper.
Lastly, in our experiments, we do not rank the search results.
However, we note that ranking can be accomplished locally
on the device of the user sending the query (for example,
using the cosine-similarity between the query and the retrieved
documents from multiple document-providers).
In summary, the decentralized implementation allows each
peer to join, leave (with the caveat mentioned above), and
expand its neighbor set without depending on a global coordi-
nator or centralized index. By storing centroids at local custo-
dians for each split-node, the network naturally organizes itself
into a hierarchical overlay. This structure supports semantic
search using the same methods described in our simulations,
with only local trust and communication requirements.
IX. A VAILABILITY
The AOL4PS data set used [12], is publicly available from
https://doi.org/10.11922/sciencedb.j00104.00093. The Python
source code that has been used to evaluate this work is publicly
available at https://github.com/pneague/Semantica.git.
X. C ONCLUSION
Semantica is a fully distributed algorithm for semantic
search that utilizes pre-trained large language models (LLMs)
to construct a semantic overlay network. By organizing peers
into a hierarchical tree based on their document embeddings,
Semantica provides a scalable and accurate foundation for
decentralized semantic search. Experiments show that Se-
mantica significantly improves peer discovery and document
retrieval accuracy over random baselines and graph-diffusion
approaches. Our algorithm achieves this superior efficiency
through its tree construction and neighbor expansion com-
plexities ofO(N log N) andO(rmax N k), respectively, under
typical embedding distributions.
Semantica enables effective query routing using chain-
hopping, achieving high retrieval rates with minimal com-
munication overhead. The introduction of soft clustering en-
sures that semantically similar users are well-connected while
maintaining network efficiency. Periodic neighbor-expansion
rounds further refine user connections, enabling near-complete
recall of the most relevant peers. Semantica lays a strong
foundation for decentralized semantic search, leveraging pre-
trained LLM embeddings to create scalable, efficient, and
adaptable overlays. With further refinement and extensions,
it holds promise as a robust framework for distributed infor-
mation discovery in large-scale, dynamic networks.
REFERENCES
[1] C. Baquero, “What ever happened to peer-to-peer systems?” Communi-
cations of the ACM , 2023.
[2] A. Berger, S. A. Della Pietra, and V . J. Della Pietra, “A maximum
entropy approach to natural language processing,” Computational lin-
guistics, vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 39–71, 1996.
[3] T. Bianchi, “Worldwide visits to google.com from october 2023 to
march 2024,” Available from https://www.statista.com/statistics/268252/
web-visitor-traffic-to-googlecom/, 2024.
[4] S. Brin and L. Page, “The anatomy of a large-scale hypertextual web
search engine,” Computer networks and ISDN systems , vol. 30, no. 1-7,
pp. 107–117, 1998.
[5] B. Carlsson and R. Gustavsson, “The rise and fall of napster-an
evolutionary approach,” in International Computer Science Conference
on Active Media Technology . Springer, 2001, pp. 347–354.

14
[6] K. Cho, J. Choi, D.-i. D. Ko, T. Kwon, and Y . Choi, “Content-oriented
networking as a future internet infrastructure: Concepts, strengths, and
application scenarios,” Future Internet Technologies, 2008.
[7] A. Crespo and H. Garcia-Molina, “Semantic overlay networks for p2p
systems,” in International Workshop on Agents and P2P Computing .
Springer, 2004, pp. 1–13.
[8] S. Deerwester, S. T. Dumais, G. W. Furnas, T. K. Landauer, and
R. Harshman, “Indexing by latent semantic analysis,” Journal of the
American society for information science , vol. 41, no. 6, pp. 391–407,
1990.
[9] S. T. Dumais, G. W. Furnas, T. K. Landauer, S. Deerwester, and
R. Harshman, “Using latent semantic analysis to improve access to
textual information,” in Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on
Human factors in computing systems , 1988, pp. 281–285.
[10] J. Gasteiger, A. Bojchevski, and S. G ¨unnemann, “Predict then propagate:
Graph neural networks meet personalized pagerank,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1810.05997, 2018.
[11] N. Giatsoglou, E. Krasanakis, S. Papadopoulos, and I. Kompatsiaris,
“A graph diffusion scheme for decentralized content search based on
personalized pagerank,” in 2022 IEEE 42nd International Conference
on Distributed Computing Systems Workshops (ICDCSW). IEEE, 2022,
pp. 53–59.
[12] Q. Guo, W. Chen, and H. Wan, “Aol4ps: A large-scale data set for
personalized search,” Data Intelligence, vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 548–567, 2021.
[13] S. J. Johnson, M. R. Murty, and I. Navakanth, “A detailed review on
word embedding techniques with emphasis on word2vec,” Multimedia
Tools and Applications, vol. 83, no. 13, pp. 37 979–38 007, 2024.
[14] J. D. M.-W. C. Kenton and L. K. Toutanova, “Bert: Pre-training of deep
bidirectional transformers for language understanding,” in Proceedings
of naacL-HLT, vol. 1. Minneapolis, Minnesota, 2019, p. 2.
[15] J. Li, B. T. Loo, J. M. Hellerstein, M. F. Kaashoek, D. R. Karger, and
R. Morris, “On the feasibility of peer-to-peer web indexing and search,”
in International Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems . Springer, 2003,
pp. 207–215.
[16] J. Liang, R. Kumar, and K. W. Ross, “The kazaa overlay: A measurement
study,” Computer networks journal (Elsevier) , vol. 49, no. 6, 2005.
[17] P. Maymounkov and D. Mazieres, “Kademlia: A peer-to-peer informa-
tion system based on the xor metric,” in International Workshop on
Peer-to-Peer Systems. Springer, 2002, pp. 53–65.
[18] B. Min, H. Ross, E. Sulem, A. P. B. Veyseh, T. H. Nguyen, O. Sainz,
E. Agirre, I. Heintz, and D. Roth, “Recent advances in natural language
processing via large pre-trained language models: A survey,” ACM
Computing Surveys, vol. 56, no. 2, pp. 1–40, 2023.
[19] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” Tech.
Rep., 2008.
[20] P. Neague, M. Gregoriadis, and J. Pouwelse, “De-dsi: Decentralised
differentiable search index,” in Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on
Machine Learning and Systems , 2024, pp. 134–143.
[21] J. Pennington, R. Socher, and C. D. Manning, “Glove: Global vectors
for word representation,” in Proceedings of the 2014 conference on
empirical methods in natural language processing (EMNLP) , 2014, pp.
1532–1543.
[22] R. Rodrigues and P. Druschel, “Peer-to-peer systems,” Communications
of the ACM , vol. 53, no. 10, pp. 72–82, 2010.
[23] Z. R. K. Rostam, S. Sz ´en´asi, and G. Kert ´esz, “Achieving peak perfor-
mance for large language models: A systematic review,” IEEE Access,
2024.
[24] R. Salakhutdinov and G. Hinton, “Semantic hashing,” International
Journal of Approximate Reasoning , vol. 50, no. 7, pp. 969–978, 2009.
[25] Semrush, “google.com website traffic, ranking, analytics,” Available
from https://www.semrush.com/website/google.com/overview/, Novem-
ber 2024.
[26] I. Stoica, R. Morris, D. Liben-Nowell, D. R. Karger, M. F. Kaashoek,
F. Dabek, and H. Balakrishnan, “Chord: a scalable peer-to-peer lookup
protocol for internet applications,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on network-
ing, vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 17–32, 2003.
[27] M. E. Stucke, Breaking away: How to regain control over our data,
privacy, and autonomy . Oxford University Press, 2022.
[28] C. Tang, Z. Xu, and S. Dwarkadas, “Peer-to-peer information retrieval
using self-organizing semantic overlay networks,” in Proceedings of
the 2003 conference on Applications, technologies, architectures, and
protocols for computer communications , 2003, pp. 175–186.
[29] Y . Tay, V . Tran, M. Dehghani, J. Ni, D. Bahri, H. Mehta, Z. Qin, K. Hui,
Z. Zhao, J. Gupta et al., “Transformer memory as a differentiable search
index,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 35, pp.
21 831–21 843, 2022.
[30] M. Van Steen and A. S. Tanenbaum, Distributed systems. Maarten van
Steen Leiden, The Netherlands, 2018.
[31] A. V . Vasilakos, Z. Li, G. Simon, and W. You, “Information centric
network: Research challenges and opportunities,” Journal of network
and computer applications , vol. 52, pp. 1–10, 2015.
[32] A. Vaswani, “Attention is all you need,” Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2017.
[33] G. Wood et al. , “Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised trans-
action ledger,” Ethereum project yellow paper , vol. 151, no. 2014, pp.
1–32, 2014.
[34] W. Zhang, T. Yoshida, and X. Tang, “A comparative study of tf*
idf, lsi and multi-words for text classification,” Expert systems with
applications, vol. 38, no. 3, pp. 2758–2765, 2011.
[35] S. Zuboff, The age of surveillance capitalism: The Fight for a Human
Future at the New Frontier of Power . Profile Books, 2019.