SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain
Decentralization
Christina Ovezik1 ⋆, Dimitris Karakostas 1, and Aggelos Kiayias 1,2
1 University of Edinburgh
2 IOG
{c.ovezik,dkarakos,akiayias}@ed.ac.uk
Abstract. Decentralization has been touted as the principal security
advantage which propelled blockchain systems at the forefront of devel-
opments in the financial technology space. Its exact semantics neverthe-
less remain highly contested and ambiguous, with proponents and critics
disagreeing widely on the level of decentralization offered by existing
systems. To address this, we put forth a systematization of the current
landscape with respect to decentralization and we derive a methodology
that can help direct future research towards defining and measuring de-
centralization. Our approach dissects blockchain systems into multiple
layers, or strata, each possibly encapsulating multiple categories, and
it enables a unified method for measuring decentralization in each one.
Our layers are (1) hardware, (2) software, (3) network, (4) consensus,
(5) economics (“tokenomics”), (6) client API, (7) governance, and (8) ge-
ography. Armed with this stratification, we examine for each layer which
pertinent properties of distributed ledgers (safety, liveness, privacy, sta-
bility) can be at risk due to centralization and in what way. We also in-
troduce a practical test, the “Minimum Decentralization Test” which can
provide quick insights about the decentralization state of a blockchain
system. To demonstrate how our stratified methodology can be used in
practice, we apply it fully (layer by layer) to Bitcoin, and we provide
examples of systems which comprise one or more “problematic” layers
that cause them to fail the MDT. Our work highlights the challenges in
measuring and achieving decentralization, and suggests various potential
directions where future research is needed.
1 Introduction
Bitcoin [131], the first blockchain-based distributed ledger, 3 put forth a new
paradigm, that inspired numerous systems to enhance and expand its model and
⋆ The order of the authors follows the Blockchain Technology Laboratory’s Author
Ordering Policy ( https://www.ed.ac.uk/informatics/blockchain/btl-papers/
aop).
3 For the rest of this work we use the terms “blockchain” and “distributed ledger”
interchangeably, even though strictly speaking, the latter describes an objective while
the former is a means to it.
arXiv:2211.01291v3  [cs.CR]  15 Apr 2024

2 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
thousands of applications to be built on them. Alongside, a research discipline
emerged across cryptography, distributed systems, game theory and economics,
to analyze the properties and capabilities of this paradigm-shifting protocol.
Bitcoin’s arguably most important contribution was offering a solution to the
consensus problem [115,140] in an open setting. Contrary to classic protocols,
cf. [77], Bitcoin participants are not known a priori; instead, the system only as-
sumes a peer-to-peer (P2P) synchronous network and a public setup. 4 Bitcoin’s
core security argument is that, if a majority of computational power acts hon-
estly, the protocol solves the consensus problem and implements a distributed
ledger, as shown formally in [78,139,79]. This, in conjunction with the premise
that computational power is widely distributed over the network participants,
gives rise to the “security via decentralization” proposition: the system has no
single point of failure, as any network participant is individually too weak to in-
fluence the properties of the protocol, no matter how they behave. Intuitively, a
high degree of decentralization suggests that the trust for safe system operation
is spread across the largest possible set of parties.
The appeal of this narrative, and the emergence of ledgers like Ethereum
with APIs of higher functionality, gave rise to various “Decentralized Finance”
(DeFi) [177] applications. Such systems have drawn the attention of industry,
governments, regulators, and banks worldwide. Nonetheless, there is no agree-
ment as to whether blockchain systems are decentralized, or even what “decen-
tralization” entails, despite it being a topic of interest for centuries and across
different disciplines [16,168,94]. Proponents often tout the existence of diverse
communities, wide geographical distribution, or a theoretical ability of open par-
ticipation as evidence of decentralization [5]. Antagonists point to power con-
centration around a few entities when it comes to system maintenance, protocol
upgrades, or wealth ownership [155]. Interestingly, both sides might be correct at
the same time — to some extent. Blockchains may exhibit high levels of decen-
tralization w.r.t. some aspects, but not others. Thus, the pertinent question is
more nuanced than the simple binary one “is the system decentralized or not?”
— we are interested to know to what degree and in which aspects the system is
(de)centralized.
Another common fallacy is perceiving decentralization as a goal, instead of
a means to an end, and equating it with security, stability, or even efficiency. In
reality, decentralization guarantees none of these properties. It can be synergistic
to them, but in practice centralized systems can be more secure and fail-safe
than decentralized ones and vice versa, depending on the relevant threat model.
Still, it can be argued that decentralization’s major advantage from a security
perspective is related to the system’s resilience to single points of failure .
With this as a starting point, our work sets on exploring decentralization
across different layers, or strata, of blockchain systems. In particular, we select
layers that influence a distributed system’s security properties, e.g., privacy or
4 Bitcoin uses the following newspaper headline as the common setup string: “The
Times 03/Jan/2009 Chancellor on brink of second bailout for banks.”

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 3
fault tolerance. Thus, centralization in one of our layers points to the existence of
a single point of failure for the system as a whole w.r.t. one of those properties.
Our systematization effort aims to inform users, practitioners, and researchers,
and to support policymaking and law enforcement processes. Decentralization
— or the lack of it — plays a major role in policy discussions and the debate
over the regulation of blockchain systems. For example, to determine if a digi-
tal asset constitutes a security, and particularly an investment contract, the US
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) focuses on whether asset owners
expect to profit via the efforts of “active participants” (APs), e.g., promoters
or sponsors [171] (see also Appendix A). If a system is deemed decentralized
across all layers, in effect there is no AP that the system’s stakeholders rely on
for profiting, so the underlying token would not be classified as a security under
this criterion.
We note that many blockchain systems can be argued to have a potential
for decentralization, due to their permissionless nature. Specifically, by allowing
any party to join, they may find themselves in a decentralized state. Nonetheless,
our work focuses on characterizing the decentralization of systems as manifested
in specific points in time based on the engagement they attract, thus exploring
to what degree these systems realize their decentralization potential in the real
world, irrespective of whether they can be decentralized in theory.
Related Work. Various research works have addressed the decentralization —
or lack thereof — of blockchain systems, from some particular perspective. The
research of Zhou [187] and Cho [43] highlights the risk of centralization that
arises in the context of hardware, when specialized equipment is used by system
maintainers to create blocks. This tendency is also acknowledged in the work of
Ekblaw et al. [62]. Choi et al. [44] and Reibel et al. [147] reveal high levels of
similarity in the codebases of different blockchain projects, alluding to central-
ization around the software used in distributed ledgers. An empirical study by
Azouvi et al. [11] also looks at software centralization within a single project,
i.e., when few individuals undertake the majority of the development process.
Neudecker et al. [134] identify several ways in which the underlying network
of a distributed ledger can impact its overall degree of decentralization, while
Apostolaki et al. [4] examine centralization on the level of Autonomous Systems
(ASes) as an enabler of routing attacks on blockchains. A plethora of studies,
such as those by Gencer et al. [82], Gervais et al. [83], Valdivia et al. [172] or
Lin et al. [119], have focused on the decentralization of the consensus layer,
by measuring the “mining power” ratio of a system’s block producers. Another
blockchain dimension whose decentralization has been thoroughly studied is the
one pertaining to the economics of cryptocurrencies — often termed tokenomics.
Sai et al. [157], Cheng et al. [42] and Ron and Shamir [153] analyze the distri-
bution of transactions and tokens across parties, while Moore and Christin [129]
touch on the subject of secondary markets and the risk carried by their poten-
tial centralization. Chatzigiannis et al. [39] point out that most blockchain light
client schemes are vulnerable to centralization because of their reliance on cen-
tralized servers or full nodes, a concern also shared by Moxie Marlinspike [123].

4 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
Gervais et al. [83] present examples of centralization from the space of blockchain
governance, and particularly conflict resolution, while Azouvi et al. [11] comple-
ment this work with a more systematic exploration of the contributors behind
improvement proposals and discussions. Various works, such as those of Mariem
et al. [122] and Sun et al. [161], turn their attention to the geographic dispersion
of participants and infrastructure within a blockchain ecosystem.
Despite the breadth and depth of the research around blockchain (de)centrali-
zation and its manifestations, there have been few efforts so far to generalize or
systematize this knowledge. Sai et al. [156] offer a blockchain centralization tax-
onomy, based on an algorithmic literature review and expert interviews. They
treat ledgers as multi-layer systems, capturing 13 aspects of centralization over
6 architectural layers: Application, Operational, Incentive, Consensus, Network,
and Governance. However, their work neglects some components, such as soft-
ware centralization (as identified in [44,147,11]), or geographic decentralization
pertaining to layers other than the network (for example, the decentralization of
consensus participants, as studied by Sun et al. [161]). More recently, Zhang et
al. [184] propose a taxonomy around five facets of decentralization: Consensus,
Network, Wealth, Governance, and Transactions. They focus primarily on trans-
action centralization (w.r.t. the distribution of transactions to users), which is
mainly a measure of adoption and usage, rather than a dimension with secu-
rity implications. Their systematization also does not account for several factors
identified in previous research, including hardware [187,43], software [44,147,11],
or geographic [122,161] decentralization. Last, there exist some studies that ap-
proach the topic of blockchain decentralization from different perspectives, e.g.,
economic or social [23,22]. Notably, while all these works offer ample information
on blockchain decentralization, none of them propose a consistent methodology
for determining the decentralization level across all relevant layers.
2 Methodology
Decentralization in the context of blockchains is often reduced to particular as-
pects of the system e.g., consensus participation. Nonetheless, distributed ledgers
comprise multiple essential, interacting components. Drawing from all sources
of prior research, our work discerns the layers that form a ledger in a “bottom-
up” manner. 5 Starting from the physical layer, i.e., Hardware, we systematize
blockchain decentralization in multiple strata, all the way up toGovernance. We
also include Geography as a dimension that touches upon all other layers (Fig-
ure 1). We note that this layering is applied only on the ledger’s stack; exploring
decentralization in exogenous infrastructure (e.g., physical links, Internet rout-
ing, operating systems etc.) is an interesting question, but outside the scope of
this paper.
A first step to understand the importance of decentralization for such systems
is to identify the properties of interest that distributed ledgers should satisfy and
5 Our stratification is inspired by the OSI conceptual network model, cf. [162].

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 5
Fig. 1. Illustration of our methodology: the layers of a blockchain system, identifica-
tion of some type of resources in two of the layers (tokens, peers), their assignment to
relevant parties exhibiting a higher (network) and lower (tokenomics) degree of decen-
tralization and an example of equal joint ownership of one token.
which can be affected by the ledger’s degree of decentralization. The two core
security properties that each ledger should guarantee are safety and liveness.
Safety ensures that all honest users hold the same, “settled” view of the ledger.
Liveness reflects the ability to update the ledger’s settled view regularly, as new
transactions are submitted. We note that safety and liveness typically incor-
porate and express other useful properties for real-world applications, such as
transaction finality or censorship resistance. A third property, privacy, guaran-
tees that users’ actions enjoy a certain degree of dissociation from their real-world
identities and individually are unlinkable. Finally, specifically in the context of
blockchain systems, price stability captures the property that the ledger’s core
digital asset’s supply and market price are predictable (to a reasonable extent).
In particular, price stability is violated if the asset’s market price demonstrates
high volatility in the short term (e.g., monthly). 6 For ease of reading, we will
refer to this property only as “stability” for the rest of the paper.
We view these properties through the lens of (cyber-)security, i.e., in the
context of an adversary who wishes to subvert them. This is strictly stronger
compared to settings where failures are assumed to be benign (e.g., crash faults
due to power outages). A single point of failure exists when a single party, if
controlled by the adversary, can violate one or more of the ledger’s properties.
We lay out the following methodology: for each system layer we identify
(a) one or more resources, that can be thought of as the basic “unit” of the
layer pertaining to the ledger’s security properties; (b) the relevant parties that
control, either directly or indirectly, said resources; (c) the ledger’s properties
that are at risk, if the resources’ distribution across the relevant parties becomes
6 The cryptocurrency market is notoriously volatile, so one could apply different
thresholds for “reasonable” levels of volatility. An interesting line of future research
would be to identify non-cryptocurrency assets, which could serve as a base of com-
parison for which levels of volatility are acceptable in this case.

6 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
centralized. For example, considering Bitcoin’s consensus layer, the resource is
hashing power and the relevant parties are the miners; the properties at risk are
safety, liveness and, to a somewhat lesser degree, stability and privacy. Table 1
provides a summary of our systematization, with resources and relevant parties
presented for each identified layer and sub-category.
Notably, a resource might be modular, with some parts considered more im-
portant than others. For instance, software products are typically not monolithic,
with e.g., documentation being less crucial than a library or a configuration file.
Therefore, the parties that maintain the former have (arguably) less influence
over the resource (i.e., the software product) than the coders of the latter. To re-
solve this concern, one could compute an aggregate level of decentralization, after
weighing each component based on its significance. Such aggregation method-
ology could also be applied to compute the decentralization level of the whole
system, assuming weights for each layer (cf. Section 12).
Another issue is that one relevant party may encompass multiple real-world
identities. For instance, consider two software products, one maintained by a
single organization with many members, the other maintained by a handful of
independent developers. Although the first may be more decentralized in terms
of people, from a legal perspective the second may be deemed more decentralized,
as the first is authored by a single legal entity.
By projecting the relevant parties of each category to legal persons, we artic-
ulate a test that can be useful in assessing systems w.r.t. their decentralization
in a legal sense (Definition 1). Here, a legal person can be an organization, e.g.,
a company or non-profit foundation, or an individual.
Definition 1. A blockchain system fails the Minimum Decentralization Test
(MDT) if and only if there exists a layer (cf. Table 1) for which there is a single
legal person that controls a sufficient number of relevant parties so that it is
able to violate a property of interest.
In the following sections, we provide detailed explanations as to why each
identified layer is important and how it fits into our framework (Sections 3-10).
Then, we apply our methodology on case studies (Section 11), and finally, we sug-
gest various directions for future research that our work points to (Section 12).
3 Hardware
The role of hardware in the potential decentralization of blockchain systems has
been reported in various research works [187,43]. To be specific, by “hardware”,
we refer to the machines that host and/or support the consensus software, which
can be anything from personal computers to purpose-built devices. In many
cases, the hardware is also provided as a service from cloud providers to consen-
sus participants. To account for all possibilities, we segment this layer into two
categories, namely “physical” and “virtual” hardware.
Physical hardware. This category covers all hardware that is used directly by
consensus participants. Bitcoin mining, and that of other Proof-of-Work (PoW)

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 7
Layer Subcategory Resources Relevant Parties
Hardware
[187,43]
Physical hardware Participating power Hardware manufacturers
Virtual hardware Participating power Cloud providers
Software
[44,147,11]
Protocol participation 1) Participating power
2) Full nodes
1) Full node software
implementations
2) Developers of
full node software
Asset management Tokens
1) Wallet
implementations
2) Developers of
wallet software
Network
[134,4,82,76]
Topology Component bridges Owners of bridges
Peer discovery Bootstrapping nodes Node operators
Consensus
[82,83,172,119]
1) Owned participating power
2) Delegated participating power
1) Owners of
participation nodes
2) Pool leaders and delegates
Initial distribution Bootstrapping tokens Token holders
T okenomics
[157,42,153,129]
Token ownership Tokens 1) Key managers
2) Legal stakeholders
Secondary markets Market liquidity 1) Exchanges
2) Trading pairs
Client API
[39,123]
Tokens Full node operators
Governance
[83,11,156]
Conflict resolution Decision-making power All system entities
R&D funding Capital Active developers
Geography
[122,161,156]
Physical safety All resources above Regions
Legal compliance All resources above Jurisdictions
T able 1. Overview of blockchain decentralization layers, including for each layer the
literature that motivated it and the way it fits into our framework.
ledgers, started from regular CPUs, but quickly migrated to GPUs and, even-
tually, to dedicated devices (ASICs), which produce more hashes at a lower
cost [163]. In the case of Proof-of-Stake (PoS) blockchains, participation is typ-
ically performed through generic hardware, although there are systems with
particular requirements, which may restrict the compatible hardware options
(an example such blockchain is The Internet Computer by Dfinity [56]). Some
alternative schemes, such as certain forms of Proof-of-Useful-Work (PoUW) or

8 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
Proof-of-Elapsed-Time (PoET) also make use of Trusted Execution Environ-
ments (TEEs) to guarantee higher security or efficiency levels [14].
When analyzing decentralization on this layer, the resource of interest is par-
ticipating power (e.g., hashes per second or stake) and the relevant parties are
the manufacturers of hardware products that are used for participating. That
is, we consider a system to be decentralized in the hardware layer if the partici-
pating power is distributed across various pieces of equipment, manufactured by
different entities.
As demonstrated by the evolution of Bitcoin mining, one pathway to hard-
ware centralization is the development and adoption of specialized machines
that outperform generic equipment and provide an advantage to their operators.
Nowadays, an overwhelming majority of block production in PoW blockchains
comes from specialized hardware, despite the fact that PoW does not require
specialized hardware in theory [163]. Notably, this trend has motivated signifi-
cant research in “ASIC-resistance” and the development of PoW algorithms that
attempt to facilitate better hardware diversity [19,64,149]. In other cases, strict
or “non-typical” protocol requirements (e.g., the requirement for trusted hard-
ware) reduce the pool of possible manufacturers that can support those systems,
potentially leading to increased centralization.
Concentration around few hardware manufacturers creates various hazards.
Same-vendor products are more susceptible to collective faults, e.g., due to de-
fective parts or hardware bugs. Such faults could result in sudden drops in the
network’s power, lowering the threshold for gaining a computational majority
(safety and liveness hazard) and slowing down block production, at least until
the PoW parameters are recalculated ( liveness hazard). Manufacturers could
also introduce backdoors, threatening the ledger’s security and stability, albeit
such hazards can possibly be mitigated via cryptographic techniques [7].
Virtual hardware. The emergence of mining data centers allowed for hashing
power to be offered as a “cloud” service, effectively enabling miners to partici-
pate in block production without possessing their own hardware [121,165]. The
advent of PoS protocols reinforced this trend towards “virtual” hardware, by de-
coupling Sybil resilience from physical requirements. In theory, this enables PoS
nodes to run on generic hardware, e.g., even home equipment, but in practice,
convenience often drives PoS users to employ cloud services, which offer uptime
and connectivity guarantees that a DIY configuration cannot. This is exacer-
bated when PoS systems apply penalties to absent users and uptime guarantees
become of utmost importance to guarantee profitability. Therefore, the resource
of interest in this category is again participating power (either in the form of
hashing power or stake) and the relevant parties are cloud providers.
When nodes that control significant participating power are hosted by the
same provider, significant hazards arise for all properties. First, the provider may
have access to private keys and hence is able to create conflicting blocks ( safety
hazard) or deanonymize users (compromising privacy). Second, the provider
controls the node’s network access, so it could prohibit communication ( liveness

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 9
hazard). Finally, it could also tamper with the system’s stability, e.g., increasing
price volatility via targeted interference or even stealing user rewards.
4 Software
Software development is another dimension of distributed ledgers that has been
associated with potential centralization [44,147,11]. Diverse software develop-
ment and usage is a core element of stability and safety of distributed ledgers, as
it increases resilience to catastrophic bugs in a product’s code. A vulnerability
in one implementation may jeopardize a part of the system, but if the system
is sufficiently decentralized, such vulnerabilities would not escalate to systemic
threats. Following, we discuss the development of core blockchain software com-
ponents, namely transaction validation and PoW mining (via full nodes) and
management of keys and digital assets (via wallets). 7
Protocol Participation. The principal type of software in blockchain systems
is the full node. Full nodes implement the ledger protocol by: i) keeping a local
chain; ii) validating new transactions; iii) extending the local chain with new
blocks; iv) participating in the consensus mechanism to incorporate new blocks.
To analyze decentralization, we identify tworesources of interest: 1) (number of)
full nodes; 2) participating power (e.g., computational or stake) that is hosted
on full nodes. The relevant parties are: 1) full node software implementations;
2) full node software developers.
Relying on a handful of full node implementations introduces safety, live-
ness, and stability hazards. A bug that fails to validate correct transactions
would hurt the system’s liveness, whereas accepting incorrect transactions could
hurt the system’s safety and stability, e.g., via a network split or token forgery.
Such bugs have been observed in Bitcoin Core and could have resulted in Denial-
of-Service (DoS) attacks [75] and token forgery [48]. Implementation bugs could
also threaten privacy, if nodes reveal information about message origin (e.g., IP
addresses). Similar threats arise when code gets reused across different projects.
Often, a new blockchain is only a “derivative”, that is a project that started
by forking an existing codebase, including copyrighted information [147]. Such
projects often remain unpatched, so bugs in the initial implementation tend to
spill over [44]. Vulnerabilities may also arise when adapting an existing imple-
mentation in a new setting, e.g., copying Bitcoin’s code and replacing PoW with
PoS [96]. Thus, widespread usage of multiple node implementations, developed
by different teams, is a hallmark of a secure and reliant ecosystem.
Asset Management. Distributed ledgers are mostly used for bookkeeping of
digital asset transactions, so securely managing and transferring assets is a core
necessity. Digital assets are typically managed by private keys and represented
via addresses. The software responsible for managing keys and addresses is the
wallet [100] and its principal functionalities are: i) store the user’s keys; ii) prove
7 Appendix B also explores software testing.

10 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
ownership of the assets (managed by the keys); iii) issue transactions that trans-
fer assets to other accounts; iv) retrieve the user’s (keys’) balance and history
information. Therefore, the resource of interest is the set of all assets managed
via the ledger and the relevant parties are, accordingly: i) wallet implementa-
tions; ii) developers of wallet software.
The wallet is a major point of security consideration, so multiple properties
rely on it. A bug which e.g., corrupts the user’s keys could not only prohibit a
user from transacting with their assets ( liveness hazard), but forever lose access
to them ( stability hazard). This was demonstrated in 2017, when the “Parity”
Ethereum wallet saw a vulnerability that allowed a user to take ownership of
multiple assets and then lock them [89]; as a result, 300m worth of Ethereum
tokens were forever lost. In another example, some Bitcoin wallets possibly dis-
played incorrect balance, effectively enabling a double spending attack [116].
Consequently, if a few implementations are predominantly used, a vulnerability
could result in assets being unusable or stolen. Such vulnerability could also turn
into a systemic point of failure, with the whole ledger becoming unusable. 8
5 Network
Blockchain nodes communicate over a peer-to-peer (P2P) network, the decentral-
ization properties of which have been of great interest to researchers [134,4,82,76].
Systems often implement a message diffusion mechanism [78] via a gossip pro-
tocol that avoids full graph connectivity [54]. Users typically use the Internet to
access the P2P overlay, though some efforts try to introduce an independent in-
frastructure [47]. Here we explore networking aspects which present single points
of failure, in terms of topology and bootstrapping. A notable research question
that arises organically from our analysis, and touches upon both following sub-
sections, is creating a P2P network that is both permissionless and Byzantine
resilient, e.g., as explored in [49,124].
Topology. The first networking aspect of interest is the network’s topology.
Evaluating a real-world network’s clustering properties is a well-known problem,
traditionally done by generating random graphs and comparing the expected
with the observed values [63,135,1]. In blockchain systems, every node main-
tains a list of peer connections. Crucially, message provenance is not typically
provided, so no party can know the network origin of an incoming message.
Therefore, the resource of interest are “bridges” (single nodes or small cluster
of nodes) between the network graph’s components and the relevant parties are
the bridges’ owners or operators. Here, a component is a single node or a cluster
of tightly interconnected nodes.
A distributed network, in the tradition of Baran [15], is key in maintaining
safety and liveness. Under the CAP theorem [27], any networked system can
satisfy at most two of the following properties: i) a consistent data copy; ii) data
8 A prime such example was “The DAO”, which in 2016 attracted nearly 14% of all
Ethereum tokens and, when hacked, instigated a change in Ethereum’s consensus
layer and a hard fork which split the network [169].

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 11
availability; iii) network partition tolerance. Ledger systems are no exception.
Each node needs to maintain at least one connection to an honest party to receive
all messages and avoid eclipse attacks [87].
If some parties cannot communicate with the rest of the network, either they
halt and any transactions they submit are dropped (violating liveness) or they
produce separate ledger versions (violating safety).9 By preventing communica-
tion between a node and the rest of the network, an attacker reduces the honest
computational power and isolates that node, making a 51% or a double spending
attack (against the isolated node) easier to deploy. Additionally, an adversary
can violate liveness by blocking the node’s transactions from reaching the rest
of the network. Third, an adversary that controls all of a node’s connections
can link transactions to the specific node, correlate the user’s addresses, and
associate them with real-world information, such as an IP address, thus compro-
mising privacy 10. This also holds on a macroscopic level, i.e., a node that acts as
a central communication hub between two clusters can obtain information and
even deanonymize some participants (violating privacy).
Node Bootstrapping and Peer Discovery. Joining a ledger’s network and
synchronizing with it is the so-called “bootstrapping” process. All real-world
ledgers rely on an initial (trusted) setup, the first (“genesis”) block. 11 Obtaining
the correct genesis block is done in an out-of-band, typically secure mechanism,
since it is often well-known and easy to validate from various sources.
Initially, the node needs to connect to some peers and receive all available
chains. Therefore, the resource here is bootstrapping nodes and the relevant
parties are these nodes’ operators. Then, using the ledger protocol’s chain res-
olution mechanism, it decides which chain to adopt. There are two points of
interest here.
First, it should be guaranteed that the node connects to at least one honest
peer, to retrieve all available information and avoid getting eclipsed. As explained
above, if nodes gets eclipsed, the system’s liveness, safety and privacy properties
may get compromised. However, connecting to honest peers is not straightfor-
ward, given that the node has no knowledge about the network participants, a
standard problem in P2P networks [57]. Blockchain systems predominantly use
either hardcoded peer lists or DNS seeding [120], although both techniques are
censorship-prone. Notably, [120] showed that more secure alternatives, such as
ZMap [61], cannot be feasibly used in existing blockchain systems.
Second, even if the node connects to some honest peers, catching up by using
only genesis (“bootstrapping from genesis”) is not always feasible. Especially
9 In longest-chain protocols, like Bitcoin, miners keep producing blocks in isolation,
ending up with different ledger versions. In BFT-style protocols, like Algorand, the
ledger cannot be updated if a large number of block producers become unreachable
and thus do not adopt new transactions.
10 Note that protecting privacy in the network layer can be a particularly challeng-
ing problem, even in the setting where no single adversary controls all of a node’s
connections.
11 Some proposals rely on computational assumptions instead of a trusted setup [80],
but their real-world performance and applicability is still untested.

12 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
in PoS systems, an attacker can effortlessly assemble an arbitrarily-long, seem-
ingly correct chain (violating safety) [81,31,118]. To counter such attacks, some
ledgers employ checkpoints [107,52,50], which are often issued centrally and are
either hardcoded or received from the peers. Other solutions do exist, e.g., ana-
lyzing block density and relying on key erasures [12] or using VDFs [24,53], but
enforcing and/or relaxing such assumptions still poses an interesting research
problem.
6 Consensus
A key element of any distributed ledger is its consensus protocol, and a lot
of the research behind blockchain decentralization has been dedicated to this
layer [82,83,172,119]. Protocols in our context are “resource-based”, i.e., they
are executed by parties possessing units of an underlying resource (e.g., hashing
power or stake). To guarantee safety and liveness, at least a majority (or in
some cases a supermajority of 2
3) of the ledger’s participating resources should
be honestly controlled [77]. Therefore, when a handful of actors control enough
resources to break one of the properties, a direct point of failure arises.
Protocols like Bitcoin [78], Algorand [40], or Ouroboros Praos [78], enable
resource holders to engage in the protocol directly with (essentially) whatever
amount of resources they have. In these protocols, block producers can, even
though they do not have to, form coalitions called pools. In PoW, a pool “leader”
validates transactions, and organizes them in a candidate block, while each
“member” executes the PoW puzzle for the leader-made block. If a member
is successful, the leader collects the block’s reward and distributes it, propor-
tionately to each member’s power. In PoS, the leader has full control over the
block’s creation, while the members only pay fees to delegate their staking rights
to the leader and collect rewards. Pooling behavior is also driven by temporal dis-
counting [146], i.e., the tendency to disfavor rare or delayed rewards. In essence,
a small miner may prefer small frequent payments, at the cost of some fee, over
rare large payments, when producing a block.
Other systems, like Cosmos [114] and EOS [92], impose restrictions on which
parties can participate in consensus and require the rest to delegate their re-
sources to a representative or “validator” node. This “barrier to entry” means
that any party without enough stake, i.e., below the system’s threshold or less
than its competitors, is required to delegate their staking rights to a validator.
At every “epoch”, a committee of (a fixed number of) parties is elected to run
the protocol. The election mechanism is voting-based, with resource delegation
acting as the voting process.
In both types of systems, there are two resources of interest: i) owned par-
ticipating power, e.g., computational or stake; ii) delegated participating power,
including the power to choose a block’s content. Accordingly, therelevant parties
are: i) miners and stakeholders, who own hashing power and stake respectively;
ii) pool leaders and delegates, who control how the resources are used.

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 13
Typically, the security of a ledger is guaranteed if the parties that represent
an aggregate majority of the participating power are honest (i.e., they follow the
protocol as prescribed) [78]. Therefore, the concentration of participating power
around few entities poses a threat to the system. This hazard is well-known and
blockchain users and participants have actively tried to avoid it since at least
2014 [86]. Those controlling a power majority can hurt liveness, by refusing to
publish or accept certain transactions, as well assafety by launching a long-range
attack. Both types of attacks also indirectly hurt stability, since the system’s
trustworthiness is challenged.
A second concern revolves around block proposers. A proposer is a party that
maintains a mempool and chooses which transactions are added to a block and
in what order. Initially, a single party acted as both block proposer and builder.
With the increase in hardware requirements needed to run a full node and the
formation of pools, the two roles of proposer and builder were separated.
In PoW ledgers, the leader of the pool typically proposes the block’s content,
whereas the pool members only run the PoW algorithm. Therefore, pool mem-
bers are not involved in a block’s construction and often do not even validate its
contents. Therefore, the leader may censor transactions ( liveness hazard), steal
member rewards ( stability hazard), or possibly link the user’s resources with
information like IP addresses ( privacy hazard).
In addition, smart contracts enable MEV-type attacks [186], which might
hurt stability. Here, block builders have the ability to observe transactions be-
fore publication and choose their order in a block, which they can exploit to
extract value from honest transactions. A countermeasure that has been intro-
duced is the proposer-builder separation (PBS) model, wherein a trusted party
maintains a mempool and proposes a block, whereas validators sign it without
ever observing its content (thus not being able to exploit its MEV) [33]. Still, the
current implementation of PBS in Ethereum has been criticized for facilitating
censorship and centralization, hence its usefulness remains unclear [88].
Finally, a threat arises due to the lack of self-healing, i.e., the inability to
recover from a temporary adversarial takeover. In PoW, even if a majority gets
corrupted, honest users can increase their own power and, eventually, overthrow
the adversary and restore the ledger’s security [10,13]. In PoS though, power shift
takes place on the ledger, by transferring stake. If an adversary temporarily ob-
tains a majority, they can prohibit transactions that shift power away from them,
thus retaining control indefinitely (for example, a large centralized cryptocur-
rency exchange can make it hard to issue outgoing payments and withdrawals,
while enabling payments between different users of the exchange). Consequently,
a diverse stake distribution (cf. Section 7) is vital to protect against takeovers.
7 Cryptocurrency Economics
A core component of ledger systems is their native token. Tokens compensate
system maintenance and accommodate value transfers. They are treated as cur-
rency or assets by their users, thus forming a market economy. To record data on

14 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
the ledger, e.g., payments or interactions with applications, users obtain tokens
to pay the corresponding fees. System maintainers get compensated in tokens to
offset their costs. Several studies have considered the distribution of tokens and
their availability (e.g., on exchanges) as integral parts of a blockchain and its
eventual degree of decentralization [157,42,153,129]. Accordingly, in this section,
we explore decentralization in blockchain-based economies, in terms of initial
token distribution, token ownership, and secondary markets.
Initial Token Distribution. To bootstrap the system, a blockchain protocol
defines two parameters: i) the distribution of tokens at the system’s launch, and
ii) how new tokens are generated and distributed as the system evolves. Thus,
the generated tokens form the resource of interest, while the relevant parties are
the token holders.
As with other aspects, Bitcoin led the way and other systems explored al-
ternatives. In Bitcoin, no coins existed prior to its beginning, i.e., there was no
“pre-mine.” Starting from genesis, each block creates a predetermined amount
of coins, based on a rate that converges to 21 million tokens in existence [131].
New coins, along with transaction fees, are awarded to the miner that produces
each block. Therefore, to acquire new tokens a user gathers enough computing
power to produce a block. In other blockchain systems, some tokens were sold via
traditional markets before the blockchain was deployed. This approach, termed
“Initial Coin Offering” (ICO), enabled funding the project with the future pro-
ceeds of the token investment. In return, investors acquired a pre-launch amount
of tokens, which was codified in the chain’s first block. In terms of token gener-
ation, most systems employ a variation of Bitcoin’s mechanism, e.g., Ethereum
blocks yield 2 new tokens, while others, like Cardano, employ elaborate mecha-
nisms to incentivize pooling around a target number of pools [28].
The initial token distribution is particularly important in PoS systems, where
Sybil resilience relies on it (cf. Section 6). If centralized around a few parties, e.g.,
via pre-mining (or “pre-minting”), early investors have to maintain the system
in its early stages, while also receiving the early blocks’ rewards. Fewer consen-
sus participants during this time lowers the threshold for adversarial takeover,
threatening the system’s safety and liveness. In both PoW and PoS systems, new
users are onboarded if early investors sell tokens on secondary markets. Conse-
quently, early investors control the system’s expansion and valuation, impacting
its stability.
Finally, the process of distributing tokens might be elemental for privacy-
oriented systems. Typically, such projects employ zero-knowledge protocols that
rely on a secure construction of a common reference string (CRS). If the CRS’s
construction is centralized, then the party that creates it can deanonymize all
transactions or violate their correctness. To avoid such hazards, various ceremony
protocols have been proposed in order to construct the CRS in a distributed
manner [141,103,136,110].
Token Ownership. Diverse token ownership plays a central role in the usability
and security of a blockchain. Hence, the system’s circulating tokens are the
resource of interest, while the relevant parties are: i) key managers, and ii) legal

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 15
asset owners. This distinction arises due to the existence of custodians, who
control assets on behalf of other stakeholders, and users controlling multiple
addresses.
If most tokens are owned by a few parties, many hazards arise. First, PoS
systems’ security, i.e., safety and liveness, relies directly on diverse token own-
ership, which makes corrupting enough parties to control a majority of tokens
more threatening. Second, the token’s price may be manipulated, posing a risk
on the system’s stability and, indirectly, security, in both PoS and PoW systems.
Specifically, participation cost, e.g., for mining equipment or electricity, is de-
nominated in fiat currency. However, miner income from block rewards comes in
tokens. Thus, miners need to sell part of the rewards (for fiat) to pay for their
operational costs. If the market is volatile, profitability is more precarious and
miners are possibly less inclined to participate, which can impact the safety or
liveness of the system by reducing the threshold for conducting a 51% attack.
Various factors drive token ownership centralization. Initial tokens are often
allocated centrally (see above). System incentives, e.g., fixed token supply, gen-
erally favor hoarding tokens instead of spending them. Finally, rich participants
may accumulate capital faster than small ones, an inevitability in pseudonymous
systems where downwards wealth redistribution is impossible [99].
Secondary Markets. Distributing the tokens to a wide population is predom-
inantly made on secondary markets. The rate of token production is typically
slow, depending on block production, and the new tokens are often distributed
to existing users. Therefore, new users are onboarded via centralized exchanges
and, to a lesser extent, face-to-face transactions. The tokens that are bought and
sold through these markets constitute the resource of interest, when it comes to
measuring the decentralization of secondary markets, while the relevant parties
are i) the assets for which they are bought and sold (“trading pairs”), 12, and
ii) the exchanges that host these trades.
Many hazards arise when tokens are available on limited markets. First,
exchanges offer little privacy guarantees, so their operators have full access of
user data, following KYC regulations. Second, exchanges are largely unregulated
by financial authorities and may engage in market manipulation. Third, few
marketplaces often result in lower liquidity. Thus, the threshold for manipulating
the token’s price by some percentage, via selling or buying tokens, also lowers.
Similarly, if most of the token’s liquidity is allocated to a few trading pairs, then
it becomes exposed to the problems of the tokens at the other end of the pairs
(e.g., the collapse of one of these systems might trigger a huge liquidity loss). All
such events threaten the system’s stability, while also, when mining profitability
drops due to the token’s devaluation, safety and liveness are indirectly hurt.
12 In our context the liquidity of a trading pair is measured across all exchanges.

16 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
8 Client API
To join a blockchain system, full nodes need to download and parse the entire
ledger, which often amounts to hundreds of GBs. 13 The ledger’s state, which
is usually stored in memory, is also large 14 and often poorly maintained [98].
Consequently, maintaining a full node requires significant computational and
storage capacity and, eventually, becomes impossible to host on home equipment.
This concern is well-known and ongoing research tries to resolve it via ledger
compression [105,26,101]. In practice though, users often employ third-party ser-
vices that offer an interface to the ledger [123]. Given the widespread use and
variety of applications that rely on such services, the “client API” layer can
be susceptible to centralization [39]. The resources we identify in this case are
tokens, which are stored in wallets without ledger verification capabilities, and
the relevant parties the full node operators that service them. We note that
solutions like Simplified Payment Verification (SPV) [131] or succinct verifica-
tion proofs [51,106,105,30], which are not full nodes but do validate the ledger
to some extent, are not considered here. Instead, we focus on wallets that rely
entirely on a trusted node for access to the ledger’s content.
Many properties are at risk for such wallets by corrupted full node services.
For example, the service could perform a double-spending attack ( safety viola-
tion), by presenting to the wallet a transaction that is not in fact published on
the ledger; observe that, without any access to the ledger itself, the wallet needs
to trust the data presented by the node. Similarly, since the wallet relies on the
full node for transaction processing and balance computations, liveness, privacy,
and stability hazards arise, as the node can block, de-anonymize or, depending
on the implementation, divert a user’s funds and transactions.
9 Governance
Governance in blockchain systems is a broad topic [104,142,17] and of high in-
terest among studies of blockchain decentralization [83,11,156]. Here, we focus
on two aspects: i) improvements and conflict resolution; ii) fund allocation for
research and development (R&D).
Improvements and Conflict Resolution. Decision-making mainly concerns
conflicts that arise regarding potential blockchain modifications and improve-
ment proposals. Proposals may affect mining, e.g., changing the PoW func-
tion [128] or switching to PoS [65], the consensus protocol, e.g., changing block
structure [148], or token ownership, e.g., denylisting [32]. In theory, anyone can
propose changes in blockchain systems and respond in some way, depending on
their role. In essence, full nodes assume executive, legislative, and judicial pow-
ers by operating the ledger and choosing its rules, while other actors voice their
opinions by affecting the token’s market price [3]. The governance resource is
13 Bitcoin: 485 GBs; Ethereum: 819 GBs. [bitinfocharts, Etherscan; August 2022]
14 Bitcoin’s UTxO set is 4 .71 GBs. [Satoshi info; August 2022]

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 17
decision-making power, which may take various forms, and the relevant parties
are all active entities in the system.
If the other relevant layers are centralized, governance follows suit. For in-
stance, if mining is concentrated around a few operators, they might force a
choice by mining on one ledger. Where a voting mechanism is employed to reach
a decision, voting power typically corresponds to each participant’s wealth, with
each token granted one vote (due to the pseudonymous nature of these systems).
If ownership is concentrated around a small number of stakeholders, the deci-
sions might aim at benefiting these few parties in the short term, at the expense
of the system’s long-term benefit. If a disagreement turns into a stalemate, sys-
tems may split into distinct ledgers, that share the same history up to a point
but diverge thereupon [143,32]. These outcomes harm the system’s stability, and
indirectly threaten its safety and liveness.
An effective governance process should prevent such harmful events. However,
it is not always possible to make sound decisions in a decentralized manner, as
demonstrated by theoretical results in social choice such as Arrow’s impossibility
theorem [6]. Additionally, when agents act in a selfish manner, as is presumed in
distributed ledgers, efficiency can degrade (cf. “Price of Anarchy” [112]). There-
fore, decentralized decision-making processes face a challenge, as they need to
address various social choice theory (e.g., Arrow’s theorem) and game-theoretic
(e.g., rational ignorance [60]) considerations.
R&D Funding. Funding for research and development can cover the mainte-
nance of legacy codebase, research in features like privacy and scalability, market
incentives, e.g., stabilizing the token’s price at times of high volatility, and more.
Thus, the resource of interest here is capital and the relevant parties are the ac-
tive researchers and developers in a ledger’s ecosystem.
Ledgers typically make no funding provisions, besides allocating rewards from
coin issuance and transaction fees. R&D is conducted via corporate vehicles
which rely on traditional funding models, such as venture capital. However,
since designing and implementing hardware and software for distributed ledgers
is particularly expensive, this model can lead to centralization, as discussed in
Sections 3 and 4. In addition, lack of funding or concentration around a few
teams may delay crucial updates or new features, thus hindering stability.
A common alternative to traditional financing is ledger “self-funding.” Here,
the system defines a treasury, i.e., a pot which accumulates funds over time that
are allocated for R&D [2,183]. A treasury is typically managed collectively by
the ecosystem, often via an open and inclusive process where anyone can submit
proposals and the system’s stakeholders vote for funding allocation. Therefore,
a treasury can help nurture a diverse ecosystem of development teams, albeit it
is not, on its own, a sufficient condition for decentralized R&D funding.
10 Geography
Geographic decentralization is a key point of interest [122,161,156], and it touches
upon all layers covered in the previous sections. Accordingly, it involves all re-

18 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
sources described so far, e.g., hashing power or tokens. Nonetheless, it constitutes
a dimension on its own, as parts of a system may be well distributed w.r.t. one
dimension but geographically concentrated. 15
The tendency to centralize in certain areas arises due to economical, techno-
logical, or sociopolitical factors. For example, miners often set up their operations
in countries with low electricity costs, hardware companies operate in countries
with small production costs, nodes are hosted in areas with high internet speed,
and tokens are accumulated by residents of countries with low taxes and where
many exchanges operate. Geographical centralization poses two main threats to
the properties of a ledger: i) physical hazards and ii) legal impediments.
Physical safety. Physical hazards could threaten a system’s infrastructure. If
part of a system is located in a small area, connectivity failures or outages could
destroy or split the ledger’s network. 16 This concern is particularly relevant
in PoW, where equipment is hard to relocate. All resources examined above
can be impacted (e.g., via drops in hashing power or token loss when mining
equipment or cold storage is damaged), while the relevant parties are the regions
of resource concentration. Single points of failure may arise when geographically-
concentrated nodes act as central hubs, harming either safety or liveness (cf.
Section 5) and, indirectly, stability (e.g., due to increased market volatility).
Legal compliance. Failures can also possibly occur due to legal pressures. If
some layer is concentrated in a specific jurisdiction, authorities can possibly re-
strict or subvert it. Again, this touches upon all resources examined so far, as
all are influenced by the law, with the relevant parties being legal jurisdictions.
Depending on the occasion, different properties of the system are impacted. For
example, if a country bans Bitcoin mining, the power drop could decrease the
threshold for controlling a majority ( safety hazard), while blocks are produced
at a slower pace until the PoW difficulty is recalculated ( liveness hazard). Sta-
bility could also be hurt, if some part of the system, e.g., mining, software access,
or asset ownership is restricted. Additionally, exchanges can be legally bound to
follow KYC procedures to comply with AML regulations [127], linking the users’
identities to their activity something that may lead to compromising their pri-
vacy. Arguably, a system is more likely to uphold its properties by falling under
many jurisdictions, such that violating the properties requires the coordinated
efforts of multiple authorities.
11 Case Studies
We now apply our methodology to a number of case studies. First, we review
Bitcoin’s status w.r.t. each identified layer, showcasing how a project can be
15 For example, independent actors may participate in mining within a single country.
16 Although exogenous hazards, like natural disasters, are outside the scope of this
work, concentration in a small area can enable weaker adversaries to disrupt a
ledger’s execution. For example, an adversary could isolate a building or a single
computing center from the rest of the network, although assuming an adversarial
disruption of the grid of an entire country, or continent, can be considered unrealistic.

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 19
analyzed across all strata. Second, we apply the Minimum Decentralization Test
(MDT) (cf. Definition 1) on an array of projects and show that they fall short
due to centralization some layer — specifically the governance layer.
Cross-layer Study: Bitcoin
Hardware. No concrete data could be found on the distribution of hashing power
across PoW mining products. Although hundreds of ASICs are available, on top
of generic hardware (e.g., GPUs), as of 2022 the market appears centralized
around 4 ASIC manufacturers [185]. Interestingly, only some ASICs are prof-
itable, so, unless the token’s price increases without an increase in PoW difficulty,
mining should be expected to concentrate around these products. 17
Software. An overwhelming majority (99 .15%) of full nodes run Bitcoin Core, 18
so Bitcoin is completely centralized around (releases of) this product. Regarding
the distribution of tokens across wallets, no data could be found.
Network. Regarding peer discovery, Bitcoin Core sets 8 outgoing and 125 incom-
ing connections, chosen randomly from known and/or hardcoded peers. Most
Bitcoin nodes communicate over Tor, making topology analyses particularly
hard.19 Nonetheless, it is estimated that the network is evenly spread across
multiple Autonomous Systems, thus presenting high levels of decentralization [4].
Consensus. On the consensus layer, Bitcoin presents mixed results regarding de-
centralization (cf. Section 6). Hashing power is distributed across thousands of
machines. Although no concrete data could be found, folklore evidence suggests
that these machines are owned by a highly diverse set of users. However, Bitcoin
also observes high levels of centralization around pools, i.e., w.r.t. block forma-
tion and the input to the PoW module; specifically, at the time of writing, 4
pools control more than 75% of the whole network’s mining power. 20
Tokenomics. At its onset, no Bitcoin tokens existed. They were generated and
allocated as the system progressed. Early participants were disproportionately
favored, as half of all tokens were created within the first two years, when consen-
sus participation was sparse and mining was conducted by only a few parties. As
more transactions were issued, the tokens were distributed more widely, albeit
wealth is still highly centralized, compared to real-world economies (cf. Table 2).
Specifically, approx. 43M addresses own some amount of tokens, with the top
100 addresses controlling 14 .01% of all wealth. Nonetheless, tokens are traded
on more than 100 marketplaces at volumes of approx. $53B (cf. Table 3).
Client API. Most of the available Bitcoin wallet software is either SPV or
explorer-based [100]. In the first case, the wallet downloads only the block head-
ers, so it does not validate each block’s transactions, while in the second case the
wallet relies entirely on a server. However, no data could be found on the own-
ership of Bitcoin tokens w.r.t. wallet types, therefore Bitcoin’s decentralization
w.r.t. the client API layer is inconclusive.
17 A profitability calculator is available at nicehash.com.
18 Source: blockchair.com
19 53.3% of Bitcoin’s nodes operate over Tor. [bitnodes; October 2022]
20 Source: statista.com

20 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
Governance. Deciding on improvement proposals and conflict resolution in Bit-
coin is somewhat centralized, but not entirely. Specifically, decisions, which are
made by accepting suggestions via GitHub, are typically taken by a small set
of developers, who are often the ones to comment during the relevant discus-
sions [83,11]. In terms of development funding, Bitcoin makes no provisions.
Therefore, the available data are inconclusive on how many sources of funding
exist, e.g., companies and foundations, and how much influence each has.
Geography. As mentioned earlier, most Bitcoin nodes communicate over Tor,
which makes analyzing the network’s topology difficult. Nonetheless, Bitcoin
miners, although fairly well distributed with a presence in 95 different countries,
tend to cluster in certain areas. At the time of writing, more than 1
3 of mining is
located in the USA, with Kazakhstan and Russia following with 18% and 11%
respectively [34]. In terms of full nodes (which may not participate in mining),
USA and Germany see roughly equivalent shares, with other countries hosting far
fewer nodes (cf. Table 4), although still a majority communicates anonymously.
MDT Studies. We now turn our attention to projects that fail the Minimum
Decentralization Test (MDT), showcasing how the MDT can be used to identify
points of centralization in blockchain systems.
Fiat-backed stablecoins. A prime example of projects that fail the MDT is fiat-
backed stablecoins. Briefly, in a USD-backed stablecoin system, for each token
that is live on the ledger there exists $1 which is held in escrow in a company’s
bank account, s.t. at any point in time, a token holder can exchange their tokens
for the equivalent number of USD. Therefore, the main selling point is that the
token should always (in theory) be valued by the market at $1. Such projects
include Tether (USDT), USDC, Gemini Dollar (GUSD), TrueUSD (TUSD), and
Binance USD (BUSD). 21 In all these systems, there exists a single legal entity
which is responsible for issuing tokens when receiving USD and redeeming tokens
in exchange for the USD held in escrow. Therefore, these entities are single points
of control within the governance layer of each system.
Wrapped tokens. Another family of systems for which the MDT often fails is
bridges. A bridge enables transferring assets of one ledger to another, e.g., Bitcoin
to Ethereum. This is achieved by creating a “wrapped” version of the original
token on the destination, with each wrapped token corresponding to a (frozen)
token on the source side. These systems can also be centralized in the gover-
nance layer, as a single custodian is typically responsible for the creation and
destruction of the wrapped tokens. Such bridge examples include Wrapped Bit-
coin (WBTC), with BitGo being solely responsible for minting new tokens, and
Huobi Bitcoin (HBTC), with Huobi being the custodian. 22
21 USDT: tether.to, USDC: circle.com, GUSD: gemini.com, TUSD: tusd.io, BUSD:
binance.com
22 WBTC: wbtc.network, HBTC: htokens.finance

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 21
12 Discussion
Our main contribution is the systematization of the rather fragmented body of
literature related to decentralization into a unified framework, under which the
decentralization of any distributed ledger can be analyzed. Table 1 summarizes
our methodology, i.e., the layers that comprise a ledger and the relevant resources
and parties that guarantee its core properties. Removing single points of failure
via a diverse distribution of resources across independent parties is critical in
guaranteeing security, privacy, and stability and can also have legal implications
(cf. Appendix A). Our work also opens various research threads.
First, even though we do not treat off-chain “Layer 2” protocols [95] as a dis-
tinct stratum, our methodology can be readily applied to a combination of Layer
1 (main chain) and Layer 2 protocols. For example, one could apply our layer-
ing methodology on a combination of Bitcoin and the Lightning Network [145]
and assess the decentralization of the combined system as a payment network.
Similarly, our methodology can assess blockchain-based “decentralized applica-
tions” (DApps), e.g., DeFi systems.23 Investigating the decentralization of Layer
2 protools or DApps via our methodology is thus a promising research thread.
Second, exploring the relationship between decentralization and fault toler-
ance, as well as the settings where decentralization is beneficial and those where
it is not, is another interesting topic of future research. 24
Third, we offer a framework for analyzing blockchain decentralization, but
not specific quantitative metrics. A compelling direction for future work is sys-
tematically identifying the right metrics for each layer to capture all relevant
aspects of blockchain decentralization. 25 Building on this, a natural end-goal of
all questions posed above is producing a quantitative blockchain decentralization
index. Historically, it has been observed that increasing decentralization on one
axis coincides with, or even results in, centralization on another [158]. Future
work should further explore the dynamics between all layers, resolve possibly in-
escapable trade-offs, determine the importance (weight) that should be assigned
to each layer and each metric, and efficiently combine them into an index.
References
1. Albert, R., Barab´ asi, A.L.: Statistical mechanics of complex networks. Reviews
of modern physics 74(1), 47 (2002)
2. Allen, D.W., Berg, C., Lane, A.M.: Trust and governance in collective blockchain
treasuries. Available at SSRN (2021)
3. Alston, E.: Constitutions and blockchains: Competitive governance of fundamen-
tal rule sets. Case Western Reserve Journal of Law, Technology & the Internet
11(4) (2019)
23 In such cases, smart contract development would naturally fall in the software layer.
24 Appendix E expands on the relationship between fault tolerant systems and decen-
tralization.
25 Appendix D offers an overview of metrics that have been used so far in this setting.

22 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
4. Apostolaki, M., Zohar, A., Vanbever, L.: Hijacking bitcoin: Routing attacks on
cryptocurrencies. In: 2017 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. pp. 375–
392. IEEE Computer Society Press, San Jose, CA, USA (May 22–26, 2017).
https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2017.29
5. Araya, D.: The promise of bitcoin: An interview with andreas m. antonopou-
los (2016), https://futurism.com/promise-bitcoin-interview-andreas-m-
antonopoulos
6. Arrow, K.J.: A difficulty in the concept of social welfare. Journal of political
economy 58(4), 328–346 (1950)
7. Ateniese, G., Kiayias, A., Magri, B., Tselekounis, Y., Venturi, D.: Secure out-
sourcing of cryptographic circuits manufacturing. In: Baek, J., Susilo, W., Kim,
J. (eds.) ProvSec 2018: 12th International Conference on Provable Security. Lec-
ture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 11192, pp. 75–93. Springer, Heidelberg, Ger-
many, Jeju, South Korea (Oct 25–28, 2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-01446-9_5
8. Atkinson, A.B., et al.: On the measurement of inequality. Journal of economic
theory 2(3), 244–263 (1970)
9. Avan-Nomayo, O.: Bitcoin.org blocks access to bitcoin software download
in the uk (2021), https://cointelegraph.com/news/bitcoin-org-blocks-
access-to-bitcoin-software-download-in-the-uk
10. Avarikioti, G., K¨ appeli, L., Wang, Y., Wattenhofer, R.: Bitcoin security un-
der temporary dishonest majority. In: Goldberg, I., Moore, T. (eds.) Finan-
cial Cryptography and Data Security - 23rd International Conference, FC 2019,
Frigate Bay, St. Kitts and Nevis, February 18-22, 2019, Revised Selected Pa-
pers. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 11598, pp. 466–483. Springer
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-32101-7_28 , https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-030-32101-7_28
11. Azouvi, S., Maller, M., Meiklejohn, S.: Egalitarian society or benevolent dicta-
torship: The state of cryptocurrency governance. In: Zohar, A., Eyal, I., Teague,
V., Clark, J., Bracciali, A., Pintore, F., Sala, M. (eds.) FC 2018 Workshops. Lec-
ture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10958, pp. 127–143. Springer, Heidelberg,
Germany, Nieuwpoort, Cura¸ cao (Mar 2, 2019).https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-662-58820-8_10
12. Badertscher, C., Gazi, P., Kiayias, A., Russell, A., Zikas, V.: Ouroboros gene-
sis: Composable proof-of-stake blockchains with dynamic availability. In: Lie, D.,
Mannan, M., Backes, M., Wang, X. (eds.) ACM CCS 2018: 25th Conference on
Computer and Communications Security. pp. 913–930. ACM Press, Toronto, ON,
Canada (Oct 15–19, 2018). https://doi.org/10.1145/3243734.3243848
13. Badertscher, C., Gaˇ zi, P., Kiayias, A., Russell, A., Zikas, V.: Consensus redux: Dis-
tributed ledgers in the face of adversarial supremacy. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2020/1021 (2020), https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1021
14. Bao, Z., Wang, Q., Shi, W., Wang, L., Lei, H., Chen, B.: When blockchain meets
sgx: An overview, challenges, and open issues. IEEE Access 8, 170404–170420
(2020)
15. Baran, P.: On distributed communications networks. IEEE transactions on Com-
munications Systems 12(1), 1–9 (1964)
16. Bastiat, F.: Popular Fallacies regarding General Interests; being a translation of
the “Sophismes ´ economiques”... With notes by GR Porter [the translator]. John
Murray (1846)

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 23
17. Beck, R., M¨ uller-Bloch, C., King, J.L.: Governance in the blockchain economy:
A framework and research agenda. Journal of the Association for Information
Systems 19(10), 1 (2018)
18. Bendiksen, C.S., Gibbons, S., Lim, E.: The bitcoin mining network-trends , com-
position , marginal creation cost , electricity consumption & sources (2018),
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:149451309
19. Biryukov, A., Dinu, D., Khovratovich, D.: Argon2: new generation of memory-
hard functions for password hashing and other applications. In: 2016 IEEE Euro-
pean Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P). pp. 292–302. IEEE (2016)
20. Biryukov, A., Khovratovich, D., Pustogarov, I.: Deanonymisation of clients
in bitcoin P2P network. In: Ahn, G.J., Yung, M., Li, N. (eds.) ACM CCS
2014: 21st Conference on Computer and Communications Security. pp. 15–29.
ACM Press, Scottsdale, AZ, USA (Nov 3–7, 2014). https://doi.org/10.1145/
2660267.2660379
21. Bitwise Asset Management: Analysis of real bitcoin trade volume (2019),
https://www.sec.gov/comments/sr-nysearca-2019-01/srnysearca201901-
5164833-183434.pdf
22. Bod´ o, B., Brekke, J.K., Hoepman, J.H.: Decentralisation: a multidisciplinary per-
spective. Internet Policy Review 10(2), 1–21 (2021)
23. Bod´ o, B., Giannopoulou, A.: The logics of technology decentralization–the case
of distributed ledger technologies. Blockchain and web 3 (2019)
24. Boneh, D., Bonneau, J., B¨ unz, B., Fisch, B.: Verifiable delay functions. In:
Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2018,
Part I. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10991, pp. 757–788. Springer,
Heidelberg, Germany, Santa Barbara, CA, USA (Aug 19–23, 2018). https:
//doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-96884-1_25
25. Bonneau, J., Heninger, N. (eds.): FC 2020: 24th International Conference on
Financial Cryptography and Data Security, Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
vol. 12059. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, Kota Kinabalu, Malaysia (Feb 10–14,
2020)
26. Bonneau, J., Meckler, I., Rao, V., Shapiro, E.: Coda: Decentralized cryptocur-
rency at scale. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/352 (2020), https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2020/352
27. Brewer, E.: Cap twelve years later: How the” rules” have changed. Computer
45(2), 23–29 (2012)
28. Br¨ unjes, L., Kiayias, A., Koutsoupias, E., Stouka, A.: Reward sharing
schemes for stake pools. In: IEEE European Symposium on Security and
Privacy, EuroS&P 2020, Genoa, Italy, September 7-11, 2020. pp. 256–275.
IEEE (2020). https://doi.org/10.1109/EuroSP48549.2020.00024, https://
doi.org/10.1109/EuroSP48549.2020.00024
29. BTI Verified: 2020 market data integrity report (2020), https://web.archive.
org/web/20211009155412/https://btiverified.com/crypto-market-data-
report-2020/
30. B¨ unz, B., Kiffer, L., Luu, L., Zamani, M.: FlyClient: Super-light clients for cryp-
tocurrencies. In: IEEE S&P 2020 [91], pp. 928–946. https://doi.org/10.1109/
SP40000.2020.00049
31. Buterin, V.: On stake (2014), https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/07/05/stake
32. Buterin, V.: Hard fork completed (2016), https://blog.ethereum.org/2016/07/
20/hard-fork-completed/
33. Buterin, V.: Two-slot proposer/builder separation (2021), https://ethresear.
ch/t/two-slot-proposer-builder-separation/10980

24 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
34. Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance: Cambridge bitcoin electricity con-
sumption index (cbeci): Bitcoin mining map (2022), https://ccaf.io/cbeci/
mining_map
35. Cao, T., Yu, J., Decouchant, J., Luo, X., Ver´ ıssimo, P.: Exploring the monero
peer-to-peer network. In: Bonneau and Heninger [25], pp. 578–594. https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-51280-4_31
36. Cavallaro, L., Kinder, J., Wang, X., Katz, J. (eds.): ACM CCS 2019: 26th Confer-
ence on Computer and Communications Security. ACM Press (Nov 11–15, 2019)
37. cdetrio: Ropsten revival (2017), https://github.com/ethereum/ropsten/blob/
master/revival.md
38. Cevallos, A., Stewart, A.: A verifiably secure and proportional committee election
rule. In: Baldimtsi, F., Roughgarden, T. (eds.) AFT ’21: 3rd ACM Conference
on Advances in Financial Technologies, Arlington, Virginia, USA, September 26 -
28, 2021. pp. 29–42. ACM (2021). https://doi.org/10.1145/3479722.3480988,
https://doi.org/10.1145/3479722.3480988
39. Chatzigiannis, P., Baldimtsi, F., Chalkias, K.: Sok: Blockchain light clients. In:
International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security. pp. 615–
641. Springer (2022)
40. Chen, J., Gorbunov, S., Micali, S., Vlachos, G.: ALGORAND AGREEMENT:
Super fast and partition resilient byzantine agreement. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Report 2018/377 (2018), https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/377
41. Chen, T., Li, Z., Zhu, Y., Chen, J., Luo, X., Lui, J.C.S., Lin, X., Zhang, X.: Under-
standing ethereum via graph analysis. ACM Transactions on Internet Technology
(TOIT) 20(2), 1–32 (2020)
42. Cheng, L., Zhu, F., Liu, H., Miao, C.: On decentralization of bitcoin: An asset
perspective (2021)
43. Cho, H.: Asic-resistance of multi-hash proof-of-work mechanisms for blockchain
consensus protocols. IEEE Access 6, 66210–66222 (2018)
44. Choi, J., Choi, W., Aiken, W., Kim, H., Huh, J.H., Kim, T., Kim, Y., Anderson,
R.: Attack of the clones: Measuring the maintainability, originality and security
of bitcoin’forks’ in the wild. arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.08678 (2022)
45. CoinYuppie: It’s time to formally face the centralization problem that infura
brings (2022)
46. Commodity Futures Trading Commission: Cftc orders coinbase inc. to pay $6.5
million for false, misleading, or inaccurate reporting and wash trading (2021),
https://www.cftc.gov/media/5796/enfcoinbaseorder031921/download
47. Cook, C.: Introducing the blockstream satellite base station (2021)
48. Core, B.: Cve-2018-17144 full disclosure (2018), https://bitcoincore.org/en/
2018/09/20/notice/
49. Coretti, S., Kiayias, A., Moore, C., Russell, A.: The generalsˆ a €™ scuttlebutt:
Byzantine-resilient gossip protocols. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. p. 541 (2022),
https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/541
50. Daian, P., Pass, R., Shi, E.: Snow white: Robustly reconfigurable consensus and
applications to provably secure proof of stake. In: Goldberg and Moore [84], pp.
23–41. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-32101-7_2
51. Daveas, S., Karantias, K., Kiayias, A., Zindros, D.: A gas-efficient superlight
bitcoin client in solidity. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/927 (2020),
https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/927
52. David, B., Gazi, P., Kiayias, A., Russell, A.: Ouroboros praos: An adaptively-
secure, semi-synchronous proof-of-stake blockchain. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V.

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 25
(eds.) Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2018, Part II. Lecture Notes in
Computer Science, vol. 10821, pp. 66–98. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, Tel
Aviv, Israel (Apr 29 – May 3, 2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
78375-8_3
53. Deb, S., Kannan, S., Tse, D.: Posat: Proof-of-work availability and unpredictabil-
ity, without the work. In: Borisov, N., D´ ıaz, C. (eds.) Financial Cryptography and
Data Security - 25th International Conference, FC 2021, Virtual Event, March
1-5, 2021, Revised Selected Papers, Part II. Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
vol. 12675, pp. 104–128. Springer (2021).https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-
64331-0_6, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-64331-0_6
54. Decker, C., Wattenhofer, R.: Information propagation in the bitcoin network. In:
13th IEEE International Conference on Peer-to-Peer Computing, IEEE P2P 2013,
Trento, Italy, September 9-11, 2013, Proceedings. pp. 1–10. IEEE (2013). https:
//doi.org/10.1109/P2P.2013.6688704, https://doi.org/10.1109/P2P.2013.
6688704
55. Delgado-Segura, S., Bakshi, S., P´ erez-Sol` a, C., Litton, J., Pachulski, A., Miller, A.,
Bhattacharjee, B.: TxProbe: Discovering bitcoin’s network topology using orphan
transactions. In: Goldberg and Moore [84], pp. 550–566. https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-32101-7_32
56. Dfinity: Node provider machine hardware guide - internet computer
wiki, https://wiki.internetcomputer.org/wiki/Node_Provider_Machine_
Hardware_Guide
57. Dickey, C.G., Grothoff, C.: Bootstrapping of peer-to-peer networks. In: 2008 Inter-
national Symposium on Applications and the Internet. pp. 205–208. IEEE (2008)
58. Donet, J.A.D., P´ erez-Sol` a, C., Herrera-Joancomart´ ı, J.: The bitcoin P2P network.
In: B¨ ohme, R., Brenner, M., Moore, T., Smith, M. (eds.) Financial Cryptography
and Data Security - FC 2014 Workshops, BITCOIN and WAHC 2014, Christ
Church, Barbados, March 7, 2014, Revised Selected Papers. Lecture Notes in
Computer Science, vol. 8438, pp. 87–102. Springer (2014). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-662-44774-1_7 , https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-44774-1_7
59. Dotan, M., Pignolet, Y.A., Schmid, S., Tochner, S., Zohar, A.: Survey on
blockchain networking: Context, state-of-the-art, challenges. ACM Comput. Surv.
54(5) (may 2021). https://doi.org/10.1145/3453161, https://doi.org/10.
1145/3453161
60. Downs, A., et al.: An economic theory of democracy (1957)
61. Durumeric, Z., Wustrow, E., Halderman, J.A.: ZMap: Fast internet-wide scanning
and its security applications. In: King, S.T. (ed.) USENIX Security 2013: 22nd
USENIX Security Symposium. pp. 605–620. USENIX Association, Washington,
DC, USA (Aug 14–16, 2013)
62. Ekblaw, A., Barabas, C., Harvey-Buschel, J., Lippman, A.: Bitcoin and the myth
of decentralization: Socio-technical proposals for restoring network integrity. In:
2016 IEEE 1st international workshops on foundations and applications of self*
systems (FAS* W). pp. 18–23. IEEE (2016)
63. Erdos, P., R´ enyi, A., et al.: On the evolution of random graphs. Publ. Math. Inst.
Hung. Acad. Sci 5(1), 17–60 (1960)
64. Ethereum: Ethash (2022), https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/
consensus-mechanisms/pow/mining-algorithms/ethash/
65. Ethereum: The merge (2022), https://ethereum.org/en/upgrades/merge
66. European Securities and Markets Authority: Initial coin offerings and
crypto-assets. Innovation and Products ESMA50-157-1391 (2019),

26 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
https://www.esma.europa.eu/sites/default/files/library/esma50-157-
1391_crypto_advice.pdf
67. of the European Union, C.: Proposal for a regulation of the european parlia-
ment and of the council on markets in crypto-assets, and amending directive (eu)
2019/1937 (mica) (2022), https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/
ST-13198-2022-INIT/en/pdf
68. Eyal, I., Sirer, E.G.: Majority is not enough: bitcoin mining is vulnerable. Com-
mun. ACM 61(7), 95–102 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1145/3212998, https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3212998
69. Feld, S., Sch¨ onfeld, M., Werner, M.: Analyzing the deployment of bitcoin’s P2P
network under an as-level perspective. In: Shakshuki, E.M., Yasar, A. (eds.) Pro-
ceedings of the 5th International Conference on Ambient Systems, Networks
and Technologies (ANT 2014), the 4th International Conference on Sustain-
able Energy Information Technology (SEIT-2014), Hasselt, Belgium, June 2-
5, 2014. Procedia Computer Science, vol. 32, pp. 1121–1126. Elsevier (2014).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2014.05.542, https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.procs.2014.05.542
70. Financial Stability Board: Crypto-asset markets. Potential channels for future
financial stability implications 10 (2018), https://www.fsb.org/wp-content/
uploads/P101018.pdf
71. Financial Stability Board: Decentralised financial technologies: Report on finan-
cial stability, regulatory and governance implications. June 6, 2019 (2019),
https://www.fsb.org/wp-content/uploads/P060619.pdf
72. Franceschi-Bicchierai, L.: People can’t see some nfts on twitter, crypto wallets
after opensea goes down (2022), https://www.vice.com/en/article/g5qjej/
people-cant-see-some-nfts-in-crypto-wallets-after-opensea-goes-down
73. Franzoni, F., Abellan, I., Daza, V.: Leveraging bitcoin testnet for bidirectional
botnet command and control systems. In: Bonneau and Heninger [25], pp. 3–19.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-51280-4_1
74. Franzoni, F., Salleras, X., Daza, V.: Atom: Active topology monitoring for the
bitcoin peer-to-peer network. Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications 15(1),
408–425 (2022)
75. Fuller, B., Khan, J.: Cve-2018-17145: Bitcoin inventory out-of-memory denial-of-
service attack (2020), https://invdos.net/paper/CVE-2018-17145.pdf
76. Gao, Y., Shi, J., Wang, X., Tan, Q., Zhao, C., Yin, Z.: Topology measurement
and analysis on ethereum P2P network. In: 2019 IEEE Symposium on Computers
and Communications, ISCC 2019, Barcelona, Spain, June 29 - July 3, 2019. pp. 1–
7. IEEE (2019). https://doi.org/10.1109/ISCC47284.2019.8969695, https://
doi.org/10.1109/ISCC47284.2019.8969695
77. Garay, J.A., Kiayias, A.: SoK: A consensus taxonomy in the blockchain era. In:
Jarecki [93], pp. 284–318. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-40186-3_13
78. Garay, J.A., Kiayias, A., Leonardos, N.: The bitcoin backbone protocol: Analy-
sis and applications. In: Oswald, E., Fischlin, M. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology
– EUROCRYPT 2015, Part II. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 9057,
pp. 281–310. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, Sofia, Bulgaria (Apr 26–30, 2015).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46803-6_10
79. Garay, J.A., Kiayias, A., Leonardos, N.: The bitcoin backbone protocol with
chains of variable difficulty. In: Katz and Shacham [102], pp. 291–323. https:
//doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-63688-7_10
80. Garay, J.A., Kiayias, A., Panagiotakos, G.: Consensus from signatures of work.
In: Jarecki [93], pp. 319–344. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-40186-3_14

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 27
81. Gaˇ zi, P., Kiayias, A., Russell, A.: Stake-bleeding attacks on proof-of-stake
blockchains. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2018/248 (2018), https://
eprint.iacr.org/2018/248
82. Gencer, A.E., Basu, S., Eyal, I., van Renesse, R., Sirer, E.G.: Decentralization
in bitcoin and Ethereum networks. In: Meiklejohn, S., Sako, K. (eds.) FC 2018:
22nd International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10957, pp. 439–457. Springer, Heidelberg,
Germany, Nieuwpoort, Cura¸ cao (Feb 26 – Mar 2, 2018). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-662-58387-6_24
83. Gervais, A., Karame, G.O., Capkun, V., Capkun, S.: Is bitcoin a decentralized
currency? IEEE Secur. Priv. 12(3), 54–60 (2014). https://doi.org/10.1109/
MSP.2014.49, https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2014.49
84. Goldberg, I., Moore, T. (eds.): FC 2019: 23rd International Conference on Finan-
cial Cryptography and Data Security, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol.
11598. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, Frigate Bay, St. Kitts and Nevis (Feb 18–
22, 2019)
85. Goodkind, N.: World’s richest people now own 11% of global wealth, marking the
biggest leap in recent history (2021),https://fortune.com/2021/12/07/worlds-
richest-inequality-richer-during-pandemic/
86. Hajdarbegovic, N.: Bitcoin miners ditch ghash.io pool over fears of
51% attack (2014), https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2014/01/09/bitcoin-
miners-ditch-ghashio-pool-over-fears-of-51-attack/
87. Heilman, E., Kendler, A., Zohar, A., Goldberg, S.: Eclipse attacks on bitcoin’s
peer-to-peer network. In: Jung, J., Holz, T. (eds.) USENIX Security 2015: 24th
USENIX Security Symposium. pp. 129–144. USENIX Association, Washington,
DC, USA (Aug 12–14, 2015)
88. Heimbach, L., Kiffer, L., Torres, C.F., Wattenhofer, R.: Ethereum’s proposer-
builder separation: Promises and realities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.19037 (2023)
89. Hern, A.: $300m in cryptocurrency accidentally lost forever due to bug (2017),
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2017/nov/08/cryptocurrency-
300m-dollars-stolen-bug-ether
90. Hinman, W.: Digital asset transactions: When howey met gary (plastic) (2018),
https://www.sec.gov/news/speech/speech-hinman-061418
91. 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. IEEE Computer Society Press,
San Francisco, CA, USA (May 18–21, 2020)
92. IO, EOS: Eos. io technical white paper v2. EOS, Tech. Rep (2018)
93. Jarecki, S. (ed.): Topics in Cryptology – CT-RSA 2020, Lecture Notes in Com-
puter Science, vol. 12006. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, San Francisco, CA,
USA (Feb 24–28, 2020)
94. Johnson, N.L.: Diversity in decentralized systems: Enabling self-organizing solu-
tions. In: Decentralization II Conference, UCLA. vol. 4. Citeseer (1999)
95. Jourenko, M., Kurazumi, K., Larangeira, M., Tanaka, K.: SoK: A taxonomy
for layer-2 scalability related protocols for cryptocurrencies. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2019/352 (2019), https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/352
96. Kanjalkar, S., Kuo, J., Li, Y., Miller, A.: Short paper: I can’t believe it’s not
stake! Resource exhaustion attacks on PoS. In: Goldberg and Moore [84], pp.
62–69. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-32101-7_4
97. Kappos, G., Yousaf, H., Maller, M., Meiklejohn, S.: An empirical analysis of
anonymity in zcash. In: Enck, W., Felt, A.P. (eds.) USENIX Security 2018: 27th
USENIX Security Symposium. pp. 463–477. USENIX Association, Baltimore,
MD, USA (Aug 15–17, 2018)

28 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
98. Karakostas, D., Karayannidis, N., Kiayias, A.: Efficient state management in dis-
tributed ledgers. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/183 (2021), https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2021/183
99. Karakostas, D., Kiayias, A., Nasikas, C., Zindros, D.: Cryptocurrency egalitari-
anism: A quantitative approach. In: Danos, V., Herlihy, M., Potop-Butucaru, M.,
Prat, J., Piergiovanni, S.T. (eds.) International Conference on Blockchain Eco-
nomics, Security and Protocols, Tokenomics 2019, May 6-7, 2019, Paris, France.
OASIcs, vol. 71, pp. 7:1–7:21. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ ur Infor-
matik (2019). https://doi.org/10.4230/OASIcs.Tokenomics.2019.7, https:
//doi.org/10.4230/OASIcs.Tokenomics.2019.7
100. Karantias, K.: Sok: A taxonomy of cryptocurrency wallets. Cryptology ePrint
Archive (2020)
101. Kattis, A., Bonneau, J.: Proof of necessary work: Succinct state verification with
fairness guarantees. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/190 (2020), https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2020/190
102. Katz, J., Shacham, H. (eds.): Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2017, Part I,
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10401. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany,
Santa Barbara, CA, USA (Aug 20–24, 2017)
103. Kerber, T., Kiayias, A., Kohlweiss, M.: Mining for privacy: How to bootstrap a
snarky blockchain. In: Borisov, N., D´ ıaz, C. (eds.) Financial Cryptography and
Data Security - 25th International Conference, FC 2021, Virtual Event, March
1-5, 2021, Revised Selected Papers, Part I. Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
vol. 12674, pp. 497–514. Springer (2021).https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-
64322-8_24, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-64322-8_24
104. Kiayias, A., Lazos, P.: Sok: Blockchain governance. CoRR abs/2201.07188
(2022), https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.07188
105. Kiayias, A., Miller, A., Zindros, D.: Non-interactive proofs of proof-of-work.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2017/963 (2017), https://eprint.iacr.org/
2017/963
106. Kiayias, A., Polydouri, A., Zindros, D.: The velvet path to superlight blockchain
clients. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/1122 (2020), https://eprint.
iacr.org/2020/1122
107. Kiayias, A., Russell, A., David, B., Oliynykov, R.: Ouroboros: A provably secure
proof-of-stake blockchain protocol. In: Katz and Shacham [102], pp. 357–388.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-63688-7_12
108. Kiayias, A., Stouka, A.: Coalition-safe equilibria with virtual payoffs. In:
Baldimtsi, F., Roughgarden, T. (eds.) AFT ’21: 3rd ACM Conference on Ad-
vances in Financial Technologies, Arlington, Virginia, USA, September 26 -
28, 2021. pp. 71–85. ACM (2021). https://doi.org/10.1145/3479722.3480795,
https://doi.org/10.1145/3479722.3480795
109. Kohler, S., Pizzol, M.: Life cycle assessment of bitcoin mining. Environmental
science & technology 53(23), 13598–13606 (2019)
110. Kohlweiss, M., Maller, M., Siim, J., Volkhov, M.: Snarky ceremonies. In: Tibouchi,
M., Wang, H. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT 2021, Part III. Lec-
ture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 13092, pp. 98–127. Springer, Heidelberg,
Germany, Singapore (Dec 6–10, 2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
92078-4_4
111. Konstantinov, E.: The ethereum cloud vs. on-premises nodes conundrum
(2019), https://chainstack.com/the-ethereum-cloud-vs-on-premises-
nodes-conundrum

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 29
112. Koutsoupias, E., Papadimitriou, C.: Worst-case equilibria. In: Annual symposium
on theoretical aspects of computer science. pp. 404–413. Springer (1999)
113. Kroll, J.A., Davey, I.C., Felten, E.W.: The economics of bitcoin mining, or bitcoin
in the presence of adversaries. In: Proceedings of WEIS. vol. 2013. Washington,
DC (2013)
114. Kwon, J., Buchman, E.: Cosmos whitepaper. A Netw. Distrib. Ledgers 27 (2019)
115. Lamport, L., Shostak, R., Pease, M.: The byzantine generals problem. ACM
Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems (TOPLAS) 4(3), 382–401
(1982)
116. Leiba, O.: Unveiling bigspender: Double (and multiple) spend vulnerability in
major bitcoin wallets (2020), https://zengo.com/bigspender-double-spend-
vulnerability-in-bitcoin-wallets/
117. Li, C., Palanisamy, B.: Comparison of decentralization in dpos and pow
blockchains. CoRR abs/2002.02082 (2020), https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.
02082
118. Li, W., Andreina, S., Bohli, J.M., Karame, G.: Securing proof-of-stake blockchain
protocols. In: Data Privacy Management, Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain Tech-
nology, pp. 297–315. Springer (2017)
119. Lin, Q., Li, C., Zhao, X., Chen, X.: Measuring decentralization in bitcoin and
ethereum using multiple metrics and granularities. In: 2021 IEEE 37th Interna-
tional Conference on Data Engineering Workshops (ICDEW). pp. 80–87. IEEE
(2021)
120. Loe, A.F., Quaglia, E.A.: You shall not join: A measurement study of cryptocur-
rency peer-to-peer bootstrapping techniques. In: Cavallaro et al. [36], pp. 2231–
2247. https://doi.org/10.1145/3319535.3345649
121. Magaki, I., Khazraee, M., Gutierrez, L.V., Taylor, M.B.: Asic clouds: Specializing
the datacenter. ACM SIGARCH Computer Architecture News 44(3), 178–190
(2016)
122. Mariem, S.B., Casas, P., Romiti, M., Donnet, B., St¨ utz, R., Haslhofer, B.: All that
glitters is not bitcoin–unveiling the centralized nature of the btc (ip) network. In:
NOMS 2020-2020 IEEE/IFIP Network Operations and Management Symposium.
pp. 1–9. IEEE (2020)
123. Marlinspike, M.: My first impressions of web3. Moxie Marlinspike’s Website
(2022), https://moxie.org/2022/01/07/web3-first-impressions.html
124. Matt, C., Nielsen, J.B., Thomsen, S.E.: Formalizing delayed adaptive corrup-
tions and the security of flooding networks. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimpton, T. (eds.)
Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2022 - 42nd Annual International Cryp-
tology Conference, CRYPTO 2022, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 15-18,
2022, Proceedings, Part II. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 13508, pp.
400–430. Springer (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15979-4_14 ,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15979-4_14
125. Maymounkov, P., Mazieres, D.: Kademlia: A peer-to-peer information system
based on the xor metric. In: International Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems.
pp. 53–65. Springer (2002)
126. Meiklejohn, S., Pomarole, M., Jordan, G., Levchenko, K., McCoy, D., Voelker,
G.M., Savage, S.: A fistful of bitcoins: characterizing payments among men
with no names. Commun. ACM 59(4), 86–93 (2016). https://doi.org/10.1145/
2896384, https://doi.org/10.1145/2896384
127. Milewski, K.: Cftc, fincen, and sec warn of crypto aml enforcement (2019),
https://www.natlawreview.com/article/cftc-fincen-and-sec-warn-
crypto-aml-enforcement

30 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
128. Monero: Network upgrade and release 0.15 (2019), https://www.getmonero.org/
2019/10/01/announcement-release-0-15.html
129. Moore, T., Christin, N.: Beware the middleman: Empirical analysis of bitcoin-
exchange risk. In: Financial Cryptography and Data Security: 17th International
Conference, FC 2013, Okinawa, Japan, April 1-5, 2013, Revised Selected Papers
17. pp. 25–33. Springer (2013)
130. Motamed, A.P., Bahrak, B.: Quantitative analysis of cryptocurrencies transaction
graph. Applied Network Science 4(1), 1–21 (2019)
131. Nakamoto, S.: Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system (2008)
132. Naumenko, G., Maxwell, G., Wuille, P., Fedorova, A., Beschastnikh, I.: Erlay:
Efficient transaction relay for bitcoin. In: Cavallaro et al. [36], pp. 817–831.https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3319535.3354237
133. Neudecker, T., Andelfinger, P., Hartenstein, H.: Timing analysis for in-
ferring the topology of the bitcoin peer-to-peer network. In: 2016 Intl
IEEE Conferences on Ubiquitous Intelligence & Computing, Advanced and
Trusted Computing, Scalable Computing and Communications, Cloud and
Big Data Computing, Internet of People, and Smart World Congress
(UIC/ATC/ScalCom/CBDCom/IoP/SmartWorld). pp. 358–367. IEEE (2016)
134. Neudecker, T., Hartenstein, H.: Network layer aspects of permissionless
blockchains. IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials 21(1), 838–857 (2018)
135. Newman, M.E.: The structure and function of complex networks. SIAM review
45(2), 167–256 (2003)
136. Nikolaenko, V., Ragsdale, S., Bonneau, J., Boneh, D.: Powers-of-tau to the people:
Decentralizing setup ceremonies. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2022)
137. Nomics: Nomics’ crypto trust index - q1 2021, north america (2021), https:
//nomics.com/blog/essays/q1-crypto-trust-index
138. O’Leary, R.R.: The race is on to replace ethereum’s most centralized
layer (2018), https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2018/12/05/the-race-is-
on-to-replace-ethereums-most-centralized-layer/
139. Pass, R., Seeman, L., shelat, a.: Analysis of the blockchain protocol in asyn-
chronous networks. In: Coron, J.S., Nielsen, J.B. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology –
EUROCRYPT 2017, Part II. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10211, pp.
643–673. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, Paris, France (Apr 30 – May 4, 2017).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-56614-6_22
140. Pease, M., Shostak, R., Lamport, L.: Reaching agreement in the presence of faults.
Journal of the ACM (JACM) 27(2), 228–234 (1980)
141. Peck, M.: The crazy security behind the birth of zcash, the inside
story (2016), https://spectrum.ieee.org/the-crazy-security-behind-the-
birth-of-zcash
142. Pelt, R.v., Jansen, S., Baars, D., Overbeek, S.: Defining blockchain governance: a
framework for analysis and comparison. Information Systems Management 38(1),
21–41 (2021)
143. Peters, K.: A history of bitcoin hard forks (2021), https://www.investopedia.
com/tech/history-bitcoin-hard-forks/
144. Platis, M., Sanderford, B.: Nakamoto coefficient (2021), https://crosstower.
com/resources/education/nakamoto-coefficient
145. Poon, J., Dryja, T.: The bitcoin lightning network: Scalable off-chain instant
payments (2016)
146. Reed, D.D., Luiselli, J.K.: Temporal Discounting, pp. 1474–1474. Springer
US, Boston, MA (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79061-9_3162 ,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79061-9_3162

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 31
147. Reibel, P., Yousaf, H., Meiklejohn, S.: Short paper: An exploration of code di-
versity in the cryptocurrency landscape. In: Goldberg and Moore [84], pp. 73–83.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-32101-7_5
148. Reiff, N.: All about the bitcoin cash hard fork (2022), https://www.
investopedia.com/news/all-about-bitcoin-cash-hard-fork/
149. Ren, L., Devadas, S.: Bandwidth hard functions for ASIC resistance. In: Kalai,
Y., Reyzin, L. (eds.) TCC 2017: 15th Theory of Cryptography Conference, Part I.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10677, pp. 466–492. Springer, Heidelberg,
Germany, Baltimore, MD, USA (Nov 12–15, 2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-319-70500-2_16
150. R´ enyi, A., et al.: On measures of entropy and information. In: Proceedings of the
fourth Berkeley symposium on mathematical statistics and probability. vol. 1.
Berkeley, California, USA (1961)
151. Rhoades, S.A.: The herfindahl-hirschman index. Fed. Res. Bull. 79, 188 (1993)
152. Romiti, M., Judmayer, A., Zamyatin, A., Haslhofer, B.: A deep dive into bitcoin
mining pools: An empirical analysis of mining shares. CoRR abs/1905.05999
(2019), http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.05999
153. Ron, D., Shamir, A.: Quantitative analysis of the full Bitcoin transaction graph.
In: Sadeghi, A.R. (ed.) FC 2013: 17th International Conference on Financial
Cryptography and Data Security. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 7859,
pp. 6–24. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, Okinawa, Japan (Apr 1–5, 2013).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-39884-1_2
154. Rosenthal, D.: Gini coefficients of cryptocurrencies (2018), https://blog.dshr.
org/2018/10/gini-coefficients-of-cryptocurrencies.html
155. Roubini, N.: The big blockchain lie (2018), https://www.project-syndicate.
org/commentary/blockchain-big-lie-by-nouriel-roubini-2018-10
156. Sai, A.R., Buckley, J., Fitzgerald, B., Gear, A.L.: Taxonomy of centralization in
public blockchain systems: A systematic literature review. Inf. Process. Manag.
58(4), 102584 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2021.102584, https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2021.102584
157. Sai, A.R., Buckley, J., Gear, A.L.: Characterizing wealth inequality in cryp-
tocurrencies. Frontiers Blockchain 4, 730122 (2021). https://doi.org/10.3389/
fbloc.2021.730122, https://doi.org/10.3389/fbloc.2021.730122
158. Schneider, N.: Decentralization: an incomplete ambition. Journal of cultural econ-
omy 12(4), 265–285 (2019)
159. Shannon, C.E.: A mathematical theory of communication. ACM SIGMOBILE
mobile computing and communications review 5(1), 3–55 (2001)
160. Stoll, C., Klaaßen, L., Gallersd¨ orfer, U.: The carbon footprint of bitcoin. Joule
3(7), 1647–1661 (2019)
161. Sun, W., Jin, H., Jin, F., Kong, L., Peng, Y., Dai, Z.: Spatial analysis of global
bitcoin mining. Scientific Reports 12(1), 10694 (2022)
162. Tanenbaum, A.S., Wetherall, D.: Computer networks, 5th Edition. Pearson
(2011), https://www.worldcat.org/oclc/698581231
163. Taylor, M.B.: The evolution of bitcoin hardware. Computer 50(9), 58–66 (2017)
164. Theil, H.: Economics and information theory. Tech. rep. (1967)
165. Tosh, D.K., Shetty, S., Liang, X., Kamhoua, C.A., Kwiat, K.A., Njilla, L.: Secu-
rity implications of blockchain cloud with analysis of block withholding attack.
In: 2017 17th IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Cluster, Cloud and Grid
Computing (CCGRID). pp. 458–467. IEEE (2017)

32 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
166. Tran, M., Choi, I., Moon, G.J., Vu, A.V., Kang, M.S.: A stealthier partitioning
attack against bitcoin peer-to-peer network. In: IEEE S&P 2020 [91], pp. 894–909.
https://doi.org/10.1109/SP40000.2020.00027
167. Tran, M., Shenoi, A., Kang, M.S.: On the routing-aware peering against network-
eclipse attacks in bitcoin. In: Bailey, M., Greenstadt, R. (eds.) USENIX Security
2021: 30th USENIX Security Symposium. pp. 1253–1270. USENIX Association
(Aug 11–13, 2021)
168. UNDP, U.: Decentralization: A sampling of definitions. Working Paper (1999)
169. US Securities and Exchange Commission and others: Report of investigation pur-
suant to section 21(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934: The dao (2017),
https://www.sec.gov/litigation/investreport/34-81207.pdf
170. US Securities and Exchange Commission and others: Sec issues investigative re-
port concluding dao tokens, a digital asset, were securities. July 25, 2017–131
(2017), https://www.sec.gov/news/press-release/2017-131
171. US Securities and Exchange Commission and others: Framework for ”investment
contract” analysis of digital assets. US Securities and Exchange Commission 3
(2019)
172. Valdivia, L.J., Del-Valle-Soto, C., Rodriguez, J., Alcaraz, M.: Decentralization:
The failed promise of cryptocurrencies. IT Professional 21(2), 33–40 (2019)
173. Ventures, O.: Blockchain development trends 2021 (2021), https:
//outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/OV-Blockchain-Dev-
Q1-2021-_v7.pdf
174. Victor, F., Ruppel, P., Kupper, A.: A taxonomy for distributed ledger analytics.
Computer 54(02), 30–38 (2021)
175. Wang, C., Chu, X., Qin, Y.: Measurement and analysis of the bitcoin networks:
A view from mining pools. In: 2020 6th International Conference on Big Data
Computing and Communications (BIGCOM). pp. 180–188 (2020). https://doi.
org/10.1109/BigCom51056.2020.00032
176. Wang, T., Zhao, C., Yang, Q., Zhang, S., Liew, S.C.: Ethna: Analyzing the under-
lying peer-to-peer network of ethereum blockchain. IEEE Transactions on Net-
work Science and Engineering 8(3), 2131–2146 (2021)
177. Werner, S.M., Perez, D., Gudgeon, L., Klages-Mundt, A., Harz, D., Knottenbelt,
W.J.: Sok: Decentralized finance (defi). CoRR abs/2101.08778 (2021), https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2101.08778
178. Williams, C.: Infura outage sparks debate over ethereum’s decentral-
ization (2020), https://cryptobriefing.com/infura-outage-sparks-debate-
over-ethereums-decentralization/
179. World Bank: Gini index (world bank estimate) (2022), https://data.worldbank.
org/indicator/SI.POV.GINI
180. W¨ ust, K., Gervais, A.: Ethereum eclipse attacks. Tech. rep., ETH Zurich (2016)
181. Young, M.: Opensea’s team of 37 staff is currently handling 98% of com-
bined nft volumes (2021), https://cointelegraph.com/news/opensea-s-team-
of-37-staff-are-currently-handling-98-of-combined-nft-volumes
182. Zeng, L., Chen, Y., Chen, S., Zhang, X., Guo, Z., Xu, W., Moscibroda, T.: Char-
acterizing ethereum’s mining power decentralization at a deeper level. In: 40th
IEEE Conference on Computer Communications, INFOCOM 2021, Vancouver,
BC, Canada, May 10-13, 2021. pp. 1–10. IEEE (2021). https://doi.org/10.
1109/INFOCOM42981.2021.9488812, https://doi.org/10.1109/INFOCOM42981.
2021.9488812

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 33
183. Zhang, B., Oliynykov, R., Balogun, H.: A treasury system for cryptocurrencies:
Enabling better collaborative intelligence. In: ISOC Network and Distributed Sys-
tem Security Symposium – NDSS 2019. The Internet Society, San Diego, CA, USA
(Feb 24-27, 2019)
184. Zhang, L., Ma, X., Liu, Y.: Sok: Blockchain decentralization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2205.04256 (2022)
185. Zhou, F., Song, N.: 2020 q2 cryptocurrency mining industry report (2020),
https://medium.com/coinmonks/2020-q2-cryptocurrency-mining-industry-
report-50a908773b17
186. Zhou, L., Xiong, X., Ernstberger, J., Chaliasos, S., Wang, Z., Wang, Y., Qin, K.,
Wattenhofer, R., Song, D., Gervais, A.: Sok: Decentralized finance (defi) attacks.
In: 44th IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, SP 2023, San Francisco, CA,
USA, May 21-25, 2023. pp. 2444–2461. IEEE (2023). https://doi.org/10.1109/
SP46215.2023.10179435, https://doi.org/10.1109/SP46215.2023.10179435
187. Zhou, Q.: Irregular-program-based hash algorithms. In: 2019 IEEE International
Conference on Decentralized Applications and Infrastructures (DAPPCON). pp.
125–128. IEEE (2019)
A Decentralization and Policymaking
In the US, an early policymaking decision was the SEC’s ruling of “DAO” tokens
as securities [170]. It argued that the DAO was predominantly controlled by
its creators, who handpicked parties with decisive operational capabilities. In
2018, it was posited that characterization as a security depended on whether the
token’s network is sufficiently decentralized [90]. This was highlighted in SEC’s
guidance [171], where the existence of “active participants” (APs) that undertake
essential responsibilities was named as a deciding factor for the classification
of a digital asset as a security — particularly an “investment contract.” Our
methodology, which measures decentralization as the distance from single points
of failure in different strata, could thus aid law enforcement in making such
decisions. In essence, an AP, as described by the SEC, is also a single point of
failure from a (cyber-) security perspective so, if a system is centralized under our
methodology, the sale of its digital asset is possibly constituting an investment
contract, as opposed to a system proclaimed to be decentralized. Our minimum
decentralization test (Definition 1) formalizes this perspective and could serve
as a litmus test.
In the UK, the Financial Stability Board (FSB) identified the possibility
of power concentration around a small set of parties, when it comes to owner-
ship and operation of key infrastructure, as a major concern in the risks of the
application of decentralized technologies [71]. Nonetheless, it also warned that
decentralization in conjunction with inadequate governance “makes it difficult
to resolve technological limitations or errors and may lead to uncertainty” [70].
Decentralization is also a matter of interest in the European Union. EU
member states have suggested that legislation should take into account the de-
centralized nature of the technology on which various businesses operate [66].
In late 2022, the Markets in Crypto-assets regulation (MiCA) was approved by

34 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
the EU council and the Parliament Committee on Economic and Monetary Af-
fairs [67]. 26 This regulation makes a specific mention of decentralization as the
distinguishing factor on whether a system falls within its scope. Interestingly,
systems might fall under this regulation even if some parts of them are decen-
tralized, but they are not fully decentralized, i.e., across all relevant strata. 27
B Software Testing
Testing is a core part of software development. In blockchains, a major means
of testing new applications or ledger features is testnets. A testnet is a separate
chain, identical to the main chain in terms of offered functionalities. To trans-
act, a user acquires testnet tokens for free, so the native testnet tokens have no
real-world value. Testnets offer multiple functionalities. Users can test features
without risking losing funds. Developers test new features and applications in a
scale that closely resembles the main chain. Adversaries evaluate the efficacy of
attacks [37] or exploit the zero-cost nature of testnet transactions [73]. There-
fore, testnets indirectly safeguard all ledger properties. Fewer testnets increase
centralization around specific full node software products, while testnets main-
tained by diverse teams may collect richer data. Hence, the resource is testnets
and the relevant parties are their operators.
Bitcoin offers a single primary testnet; the same holds for alternative cryp-
tocurrencies like Zcash and Monero.28 In Ethereum, although seemingly multiple
testnets exist, most are deprecated due to the system’s transition to PoS, and
only one of the recommended networks is expected to be maintained in the long
term.29 PoS testnets, e.g., in Cardano and Solana, are also highly centralized.30
C Brief Evaluations per Layer
In this section we provide brief evaluations of various systems for each subcat-
egory of the layers covered in Sections 3 - 10. In doing so, we identify various
questions that require further research across two broad axes. First, from a mea-
surement perspective, many systems and dimensions lack pertinent data or, to
26 A final vote in a full parliament session is expected by the end of 2022.
27 “This Regulation applies to natural, legal persons and other undertakings and the
activities and services performed, provided or controlled, directly or indirectly, by
them, including when part of such activity or services is performed in a decentralized
way. Where crypto-asset services as defined in this Regulation are provided in a fully
decentralised manner without any intermediary they do not fall within the scope of
this Regulation.” [67]
28 Sources: Bitcoin Wiki, Zcash Docs, Monero Docs [August 2022]
29 The deprecation of Ropsten, Rinkeby, Kiln and Kovan was announced in 2022
[Ethereum blog]. Goerli will be maintained in the long run, while the future of
Sepolia is undecided. [ethereum.org; August 2022]
30 Cardano and Solana testnets are run by Input Output and the Solana Foundation
resp. [Cardano Testnets, Solana Docs; August 2022]

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 35
make matters more interesting, it is unclear how to even conduct robust mea-
surements for the data under question. Second, from a design perspective, a
relevant thread of research would focus on enabling or incentivizing protocol
designers to implement accurate data collection mechanisms as a part of the
systems themselves.
C.1 Hardware: Physical Hardware
Centralization around specialized hardware has been documented [62], although
no academic research could be found on mining hardware usage in real-world
systems. Interestingly, it is unclear how to even measure the usage of hardware
equipment in PoW mining via public data, as well as how to develop PoW
algorithms that promote diversity, thus future research could aim at answering
these questions. Nonetheless, there exist some reports, though they often present
conflicting assessments. In Bitcoin, between 2017−2019 a single mining hardware
provider accounted for either 65 − 75% [18] or 46 − 58% [185] of the network’s
hashrate, with 98% of the market controlled by 4 firms.
C.2 Hardware: Virtual Hardware
A comprehensive evaluation of centralization in terms of hardware hosting, and
how to incentivize hosting diversity is a promising thread of future research. Here,
we consider two examples of highly-valued PoS systems, Solana and Avalanche.31
Solana’s validators predominantly operate cloud-based nodes; of the 1873 nodes,
more than half are hosted in two services, with more than 50% and more than
66% of participating stake hosted by 3 and 5 providers respectively.32 Avalanche
observes similar concentration issues; 731 out of 1254 validators, who control
71.84% of all stake, are hosted by a single company. 33
C.3 Software: Protocol Participation
The literature is lacking formal analyses on the usage of full node ledger soft-
ware, so a rigorous evaluation of the dynamics in software development and
usage could highlight various centralization tendencies. Various community and
commercial projects do keep track of statistics though. In most systems, a single
client software is predominantly used by the participating nodes in the network.
In Bitcoin 99% use Bitcoin Core (aka Satoshi), in Ethereum 78% use geth, in
Litecoin 95% use LitecoinCore, while systems like Zcash are completely cen-
tralized with all nodes using one software (MagicBean); a notable exception is
Bitcoin Cash, where usage is split between BCH Unlimited (33%), Bitcoin Cash
Node (51%), and Bitcoin ABC (12%). 34
31 Solana and Avalanche are #9 and #14 respectively w.r.t. market capitalization.
[CoinMarketCap; August 2022]
32 validators.app. [August 2022]
33 Data obtained from avascan.info. [August 2022]
34 Sources: blockchair, ethernodes [August 2022]

36 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
Some projects are actively managed by a wide network of developers, e.g.,
more than 200 contribute to Ethereum [173], while others are particularly cen-
tralized. As of 2018, 7% of all Bitcoin Core files were written by the same person,
while 30% of all files had a single author. In Ethereum, these figures rise to 20%
and 55% respectively [11]. Comments observe similar centralization patterns,
with 8 (0.3%) and 18 (0.6%) people contributing half of all comments in Bitcoin
and Ethereum respectively [11].
C.4 Software: Asset Management
As keys and addresses are wallet agnostic, it is impossible to identify if two
addresses are generated by the same wallet implementation, unless it purposely
reveals such information. Consequently, it is unclear how to evaluate the wallet
market’s diversity and how widespread wallet usage is from public data. To our
knowledge, no rigorous investigation has been conducted on this topic, either
analyzing historical data patterns or conducting usability studies.
C.5 Network: Topology
Bitcoin is notoriously vigilant in hiding its network topology [55,74]. Various
works analyze it by inferring a node’s neighborhood [20], timing analysis [133],
or conflicting transaction propagation [55]. In 2014, it was found that more
than half of Bitcoin nodes resided in 40 autonomous systems (ASs), with 30%
in just 10 ASs [69]. In 2017, Bitcoin’s and Ethereum’s P2P networks observed
similar sizes (3390 nodes for Bitcoin, 4302 for Ethereum). Bitcoin offered lower
latency and higher bandwidth, with nodes being closer geographically and 56%
of them hosted on dedicated hosting services (vs. 28% for Ethereum) [82]. In
addition, 68% of the mining power was hosted on 10 transit networks, while 3
transit networks saw more than 60% of all connections [4]. In 2019, Ethereum’s
network presented a large degree of centralization around clusters, forming a
“small world network” [76] with 10 cloud hosting providers accounting for 57%
of all nodes and one hosting almost a quarter [111]. This was reaffirmed in 2020,
as Ethereum messages could be sent to most nodes within 6 hops [176]. In 2020,
Monero’s topology also observed a high level of centralization, as 13.2% of nodes
maintained 82.86% of all connections [35]. No analysis of PoS systems’ networks
could be found; given their non-reliance on specialized hardware and ease of
relocation, a PoS-PoW comparison would be of interest.
Bitcoin, as the first blockchain system, has also seen multiple eclipse attacks
and defenses [166,87,167]. Some works attempt to increase the number of con-
nections without reaching prohibitive levels of bandwidth usage [132]. Ethereum
was also found vulnerable to eclipse attacks that do not require monopolizing a
node’s connections, but relied on message propagation [180].
C.6 Network: Node Bootstrapping and Peer Discovery
Bitcoin Core defines 8 outgoing connections, selected randomly from a known
list of identities, and up to 125 incoming [59]. When (re)joining the network,

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 37
a node attempts to connect to previously-known identities and, if unsuccessful,
employs a (hardcoded) list of DNS seeds. Other systems, like Ethereum and Car-
dano, employ more complex, DHT-based mechanisms [125] that require further
analysis. Cardano is also an interesting implementation, as it assumes two node
types: (a) core nodes that participate in consensus, and (b) relays that interme-
diate between core and edge nodes (e.g., wallets); in the default configuration
relays are operated by only a small committee [59].
C.7 Consensus
In (game) theory, Bitcoin’s resistance to centralization has been both supported
[113,108] and refuted [68], depending on the economic model assumed for the
participants’ utilities. In practice, mining pools have been observed as early as
2013 [83]. Between 2016 − 2020, pools created 98 .6% of Bitcoin blocks [117],
with 5 pools consistently contributing between 65 − 85% of the eventual blocks
and 25 controlling more than 94% of all hashing power [175]. Centralization
has also been observed within mining pools. Between 2017 − 2018, no entity
controlled more than 21% [82] of hashing power, but three pools controlled a
majority; within these pools, a few participants ( ≤ 20) received over 50% of
rewards [152]. Miners often participate in multiple pools at the same time, a be-
havior also observed in Ethereum [182]. Although centralization around pools is
high in (PoW-based) Ethereum (in 2019, 3 pools controlled a majority of mining
power [119]), power within the pools is spread across hundreds of addresses [182],
albeit some possibly owned by the same parties.
Some systems use a committee-based approach, as opposed to Bitcoin’s open
participation model. Here, at each time there exists a known designated party
which proposes a block and a committee of participants that vote for it. The
following are examples of such systems, where each employs their own consen-
sus protocol and defines a different number of participants per epoch using an
on-chain process:35 i) Cosmos: 175; ii) Polkadot: 297; iii) EOS: 21; iv) Harmony:
800; v) NEAR: 100. In all these systems, well-known exchanges are among the
top elected validators.36 Interestingly, the stake controlled by the elected valida-
tors is mostly delegated, instead of self-owned. Also, organizations often control
multiple validators, so the number of real actors is often even smaller than the
nominal number of participants (nevertheless some systems, e.g., Polkadot, go
to greater lengths to ensure the representative participation satisfies desirable
properties such as proportionality, cf. [38]). Consequently, identifying the par-
ticipation distribution among real-world users and the refreshment rate of the
elected committee across multiple epochs is an interesting research question.
Similarly for investigating all the desiderata of representative participation from
a social choice perspective.
35 Sources: hub.cosmos.network, wiki.polkadot.network, developers.eos.io,
docs.harmony.one, near.org [August 2022]
36 For example, Binance is a validator in all mentioned systems. [Cosmos, Polkadot,
EOS, Harmony, NEAR; August 2022]

38 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
C.8 Cryptocurrency Economics: (Initial) Token Distribution
PoS systems like Cardano, NEO, and Algorand tried to reduce early-stage risks
via a two-phase launch. At first, the ledger was controlled by either the core
development company or foundation or a committee numbering a small num-
ber of entities. After token ownership was sufficiently distributed, participation
opened widely to all stakeholders. Beyond the obvious issues in maintaining a
permissioned database, the first phase typically takes years to conclude. Early
users often tend to either not participate or transfer their tokens to the few ex-
changes that support these new tokens [174]. Therefore, an interesting question
is the relationship of the delay between launch and full decentralization and the
diversity of early investors.
C.9 Cryptocurrency Economics: Token Ownership
Bitcoin’s wealth ownership and transaction graph has been analyzed since at
least 2012 [153]. Over time, it demonstrated a three-phase history of distinct
(de)centralization patterns, where 100 addresses possess a high centralization
degree of assets and wealth flow in the network [42,157]. Similar analyses exist
for Ethereum [41], Zcash [97], and other cryptocurrencies [130].
As of 2022, cryptocurrency wealth concentration is particularly extreme (Ta-
ble 2). To establish some context, the income Gini coefficient of the 10 lowest-
performing countries ranges between 0 .63 − 0.512 [179]. Bitcoin has a Gini coef-
ficient of 0 .514, considering only the 10 , 000 richest addresses, and a staggering
0.955 w.r.t. all addresses. In the arguably deeply unequal global real-world econ-
omy, the richest 0.01% of individuals (520, 000 people) hold 11% of all wealth [85].
Bitcoin manages to beat that figure, with 100 addresses holding 14 .01% of all
tokens.
A complexity in measuring wealth decentralization in cryptocurrencies arises
due to their pseudonymous (or even anonymous) nature. Specifically, the num-
ber of addresses often does not correspond to individual people or entities, cf.
[153,126]. A user may control multiple addresses, e.g., each with a small balance.
When interpreting the Gini coefficient, this artificially enlarges the population
and possibly biases the results towards decentralization. In addition, an address’s
assets may be owned by many users (e.g., exchange addresses), which biases Gini
towards centralization. Thus, developing tools to compute wealth inequality in
blockchain systems, without sacrificing core features like anonymity and privacy,
is a crucial problem for exploration.
C.10 Cryptocurrency Economics: Secondary Markets
Table 3 summarizes secondary blockchain market data across 121 exchanges.
Many systems (Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, XRP) are traded on all but a few
small exchanges. Tether is by far the most available, in terms of market pairs,

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 39
System Addresses T op-100 Gini (10K) Gini
Bitcoin 42,943,534 14.01 % 0.5145 0.956
Ethereum 193,673,067 39.75 % 0.6757 0.978
Dogecoin 4,839,762 68.49 % 0.8297 0.986
Zcash 345,766 32.92 % 0.7796 0.974
Bitcoin Cash 17,123,166 28.4 % 0.672 0.97
Litecoin 5,442,751 36.8 % 0.6757 0.978
Ethereum Classic 511,491 41.37 % 0.8289 0.988
T able 2. Cryptocurrency wealth distribution: i) addresses that control assets; ii) per-
centage of wealth controlled by the top 100 wealthiest addresses; iii, iv) Gini coefficient
of 10K wealthiest and all addresses resp. (Sources: Blockchain ETL, Google BigQuery,
CoinCarp. [April 2022])
and used, in terms of volume. Interestingly, for all systems, except perhaps Bit-
coin, the majority of volume is not of the highest transparency. 37 This is consis-
tent with reports that show market manipulation is endemic in cryptocurrency
markets, with multiple cases of wash trading, fake trading volumes, and other
fraudulent behavior [46,29,21]. Market transactions are primarily conducted in
a handful of exchanges. By far the most used is Binance (20% of the total daily
volume),38 although Coinbase is the most recognized in North America [137].
C.11 Client API
In Bitcoin, most wallets are either SPV or explorer-based [100]. In the first
case, the wallet obtains the chain’s headers and, to verify that a transaction
is published, requests a proof from full nodes. Although SPV does mitigate
safety attacks, it also hurts the user’s privacy, as their transaction information is
leaked to the full node operators. Explorer-based wallets instead rely entirely on
a single explorer service and its full nodes, which are trusted completely. In 2018,
5 −10% of all Ethereum nodes reportedly relied on a centralized blockchain API
service, Infura [138]. This reliance continued throughout the years. In 2020, a
service outage demonstrated in practice the hazards of such centralization [178].
In 2022, a misconfiguration on Infura’s part resulted in wallets (and, thus, user
funds) being inaccessible [45]. In terms of applications, OpenSea is the leading
hosting service for NFTs. As of 2021, it reportedly handled 98% of all NFT
volume [181], charging a 2.5% commission on all sales. As expected, an OpenSea
outage in 2022 also resulted in the NFT market being practically unusable [72].
37 For “transparency” see the methodology and data of Nomics: https://nomics.com/
blog/essays/transparency-ratings.
38 CoinMarketCap [August 2022]

40 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
System Exchanges Pairs T ransparent V olume
Tether 80 21691 $52.86B (44%)
Bitcoin 100 9622 $41.31B (56%)
Ethereum 103 5680 $14.24B (42%)
Dogecoin 84 1856 $175.5M (29%)
Cardano 78 437 $1.03B (41%)
Solana 75 383 $1.25B (39%)
Avalanche 64 318 $574.29M (49%)
Monero 41 101 $39.9M (22%)
T able 3. Secondary market data across 121 exchanges (June 2022): i) exchanges
and trading pairs ( CoinMarketCap); ii) transaction volume rated as “transparent” by
nomics.
C.12 Governance: Improvements and Conflict Resolution
Most systems employ an Improvement Proposal mechanism, where proposals
are posed as issues in Github, a (centralized) system that is extensively used
for software development. If a change gathers enough support, it is incorporated
in the codebase. To voice approval for proposals, miners often include encoded
messages in blocks. From early on, proposals in Bitcoin and Ethereum have been
made by a handful of developers [83,11]. In the discussion phase, many people
participate but again only a few actors contribute most comments, while in cases
like Bitcoin the groups of developers and commenters largely overlap.
C.13 Governance: Development Funding
Most existing blockchain systems follow the first approach, i.e., not making fund-
ing provisions. In many cases, funding is channeled through a few foundations
and companies. 39 Treasuries are present in some ledgers, like Decred, Cardano,
and Dash. Despite their potential though, widespread funding has yet to be
demonstrated for most systems. 40
39 The first usually take the name of the token, e.g., the {Bitcoin, Ethereum, Car-
dano} Foundations. Examples of the second are the ASIC companies discussed in
Section 3 or software companies like Blockstream (Bitcoin), Consensys (Ethereum),
Input Output (Cardano), etc.
40 Decred’s treasury holds $23.8M, and has allocated $250K over the past year. Car-
dano’s treasury holds approx. $500M and has distributed $17.2M across 939 projects.
Dash, one of the first systems to set a treasury, allocated $500, 000 over 2018, but
it appears non-functional as of 2022. [dcrdata.decred.org, cardano.ideascale.com,
dashvotetracker; August 2022]

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 41
C.14 Geography
In 2014, 37% of Bitcoin nodes resided in the US and China [58]. In 2019, Bitcoin
mining hardware was mostly located in China (particularly Sichuan) and the
US [18,109]. Notably, the mining pools then-located in China accounted for 68%
of all hashrate [160]. As of 2022, a large fraction of nodes communicates over
Tor,41, thus analyzing the network’s topology is often hard. Nonetheless, more
than 1
3 of Bitcoin mining is presumably located in the USA, with Kazakhstan
and Russia following with 18% and 11% respectively [34]. In terms of full nodes,
USA and Germany see roughly equivalent shares, with other countries hosting
far fewer; still, a majority communicates over Tor. Until 2021 China hosted as
high as 70.9% [34] of Bitcoin mining power; following its ban that year, Bitcoin’s
hashrate dropped from 197 to 68 Ehash/s in one month. 42 Ethereum (pre PoS)
observed similar concentration patterns; by far the most nodes are located in the
USA (37%) and, secondarily, Germany (16.66%) [111]. Finally, Monero nodes are
mostly located in the US and, to a lesser extent, elsewhere [35]. Table 4 shows
various systems’ geographical distribution.
Bitcoin
(Total: 7670)
US 2862
Ethereum
(Total: 5884)
US 2781
DE 1164 DE 678
FR 505 SG 283
CA 377 UK 241
NL 309 FI 236
Bitcoin Cash
(Total: 987)
US 419
Dogecoin
(Total: 1096)
US 475
DE 148 DE 187
FR 69 FR 71
NL 35 CA 47
CA 35 CN 33
T able 4. Geographical distribution of full nodes in various ledger systems. (blockchair,
ethernodes; June 2022)
In terms of legal jurisdiction, different aspects are centralized in different
countries. In Bitcoin, the 4 companies that predominantly produce mining hard-
ware43 are all based in China. Regarding secondary markets, many exchanges
operate in multiple countries (Table 3); 20 of 121 operate in USA, thus falling
under US jurisdiction, 17 in China, and 10 in Japan, with the rest spread across
41 46.5% of Bitcoin’s nodes operate over Tor. [bitnodes; August 2022]
42 bitinfocharts.com
43 Bitmain, MicroBT, Canaan, Ebang.

42 Christina Ovezik, Dimitris Karakostas, and Aggelos Kiayias
the world. However, only 8 are based in the US, with most registered in the
Seychelles (13) and other “offshore” locations. Many ICOs also exclude US in-
vestors, following their US classification as securities [170]. Finally, an interesting
case concerns the Bitcoin Core software, which is not available via bitcoin.org in
the UK, following a related court ruling [9].
D Measuring decentralization
Our work offers a framework for analyzing blockchain decentralization, but not
specific metrics to quantitatively measure it. For example, a metric could assign
a single number to reflect how close a system is to a single point of failure, given
a distribution of resources over a set of relevant parties. Here, we briefly review
some metrics, at a high level, and leave for future work the exploration of al-
ternatives and the computations over real-world data. A first option is Shannon
entropy [159]. Briefly, a random variable’s entropy measures the uncertainty of
its possible outcomes. In our setting, the more bits of entropy in the resource
distribution, the more diverse it is, thus the more decentralized the measured
component is. Min-entropy, i.e., the smallest of the R´ enyi family of entropies [150]
can be also used instead since it also offers a lower bound. An alternative is the
Gini coefficient [154]. Gini expresses the percentage of space between the 45 o
line and the curve that plots the cumulative wealth y owned by the bottom x
of the population. Intuitively, a Gini value of 0 implies perfect equality, where
each person owns the same amount of resources, while 1 reveals extreme inequal-
ity. Alternative metrics could also help evaluate different aspects of decentral-
ization. Examples from traditional economics are the Theil [164], Atkinson [8],
and Herfindahl-Hirschman [151] indices. Drawing from the blockchain space, an
often-used metric is the Nakamoto coefficient [144], which measures the min-
imum number of parties that control a majority of resources. Nonetheless, a
systematic comparison of all alternatives is an interesting question for future
research.
E Fault Tolerance and Decentralization
Decentralization disperses control across a large set of parties. This is seemingly
beneficial for Byzantine Fault Tolerant (BFT) systems. On the other hand, it
may be counterproductive for other notions of faults. Specifically, the goal of
BFT systems is to sustain corruptions of some (bounded) number of partici-
pants. Therefore, avoiding single points of failure and distributing the system’s
operation is particularly useful in this context. The more decentralized a BFT
system is, the more parties an adversary needs to corrupt. Non-BFT systems,
which are e.g., crash fault tolerant, may not be able to sustain the corrup-
tion of any participant. In other words, even if a single participant behaves in
a Byzantine manner, the system’s properties cannot be guaranteed. Thus, the
more decentralized a non-BFT system is, the larger its attack surface. Therefore,
its security relies on the security of the weakest participant. For larger numbers

SoK: A Stratified Approach to Blockchain Decentralization 43
of participants, i.e., if the system is more decentralized, the likelihood that an
adversary can corrupt any one participant typically increases, since participants
often do not have the same level of security. Therefore, exploring the relationship
between decentralization and fault tolerance, as well as the settings where de-
centralization is beneficial and those where it is not, is another interesting topic
of future research.