A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks
RAJ PATEL*,The University of Alabama, USA
UMESH BISWAS*,Mississippi State University, USA
SURYA KODIPAKA,Mississippi State University, USA
WILL CARROLL,Mississippi State University, USA
PRESTON PERANICH,Mississippi State University, USA
MAXWELL YOUNG,Mississippi State University, USA
Peer-to-peer (P2P) networks are a cornerstone of modern computing, and their security is an active area of research. Many
defenses with strong security guarantees have been proposed; however, the most-recent survey is over a decade old. This paper
delivers an updated review of recent theoretical advances that address classic threats, such as the Sybil and routing attacks, while
highlighting how emerging trends—such as machine learning, social networks, and dynamic systems—pose new challenges and
drive novel solutions. We evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of these solutions and suggest directions for future research.
CCS Concepts: •General and reference → Surveys and overviews; •Theory of computation → Distributed algorithms; •
Security and privacy→Formal methods and theory of security.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Survey, distributed algorithms, theoretical results, secure peer-to-peer networks, Byzantine
attacks, Sybil attacks, routing attacks
ACM Reference Format:
Raj Patel, Umesh Biswas, Surya Kodipaka, Will Carroll, Preston Peranich, and Maxwell Young. 2025. A Survey of Recent
Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks. 1, 1 (September 2025), 30 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
1 Introduction
Since the debut of Napster in 1999 [71],peer-to-peer (P2P)networks have drawn steady attention from the research
community. Many early results focused on designing topologies for content storage and retrieval, with provable
guarantees on common metrics such as latency, state, and message complexity. However, due to a lack of admission
control and any trusted authority, P2P networks are vulnerable to a wide range of attacks, and attention soon turned
to security challenges. In the decade that followed, a flurry of results on secure P2P networks appeared. Specifically,
the research community demonstrated that, despite formidable attacks, correct content storage and retrieval can be
preserved.
In 2011, Urdaneta, Pierre, and Van Steen [145] published a comprehensive survey of these results. However, in
the years since, the networking landscape has changed significantly. Key advancements include the application
*Both authors contributed equally to this research.
Authors’ Contact Information: Raj Patel, The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, USA, rpatel38@ua.edu; Umesh Biswas, Mississippi State
University, Mississippi State, USA, ucb5@msstate.edu; Surya Kodipaka, Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, USA, sk2008@msstate.
edu; Will Carroll, Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, USA, woc17@msstate.edu; Preston Peranich, Mississippi State University,
Mississippi State, USA, plp122@msstate.edu; Maxwell Young, Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, USA, young@cse.msstate.edu.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that
copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page.
Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy
otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from
permissions@acm.org.
© 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM XXXX-XXXX/2025/9-ART
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.
arXiv:2509.19539v1  [cs.DC]  23 Sep 2025

2 • Patel et al.
of machine learning (ML) to network security, the ubiquity of social networks, the emergence of highly dynamic
ad-hoc networks such as the Internet of Things, and the growing adoption of resource burning as a security tool.
Given these developments, we feel that a “sequel” survey is warranted.
Here, our primary goal is to summarize results on secure P2P networks that have been published subsequent
to the survey by Urdaneta et al. [145]. We provide context, especially for newer contributions that build on older
results; however, we avoid retreading ground that has already been surveyed. As a secondary aim, throughout our
survey, we draw attention to instances where network security concerns have shifted over the past decade, and how
this area of research has been influenced by contemporary technologies. Finally, as a tertiary contribution, based on
developments in the literature, we discuss open problems that we believe provide promising avenues for future
work.
1.1 Definitions and Terminology
We begin by reviewing core definitions and terminology that are common to the literature on P2P systems. These
concepts are essential for understanding the performance and security guarantees of the results we survey.
Global System Knowledge.The participants in a P2P system are (1)good peersthat obey a prescribed protocol,
and (2)bad peersthat may deviate arbitrarily from a protocol. Since it is often helpful to view a P2P network as a
graph (see our discussion in Section 1.2), we often refer to peers asnodes.
Throughout this survey, 𝒏 denotes the total number of peers currently in the network. In much of the literature,
𝑛 is unknowna priorito any good peers, although there are methods for estimating 𝑛 to within a small constant
factor (e.g., [82, 83]). Many results assume a fairlystatic setting, where 𝑛 does not change by more than a constant
factor over time, while others account for adynamic settingwhere 𝑛 may change significantly. Unsurprisingly, by
comparison to the static setting, designing and analyzing algorithms in the dynamic setting is challenging.
The topology of the network is also largely unknown to good peers. For example, where data is stored is not
known in advance. Moreover, any peers contacted in the process of retrieving data are also unknown in advance.
Due to joins and departures, membership in the system may also change over time, and thus any view of the
network held by a peer may quickly become stale.
Performance Metrics.A ubiquitous metric islatency, which in practice typically refers to the time required to
route data from one peer to another. However, in the theoretical literature, latency often refers to the maximum
number of communication links traversed from any source peer to any destination peer (that, for example, may
hold content of interest to the source peer). Many of the P2P networks we survey have low latency in the sense that
the maximum number of links traversed between any pair of peers is𝑂(poly(log𝑛)).
Another key metric isstate complexity, which represents the amount of information each peer must maintain.
This includes information such as routing tables and peer identifiers, metadata on content, and cryptographic
credentials. Typically, state is quantified by the number of objects tracked; for example, the number: of entries
in a routing table, data items stored, and cryptographic keys held by a peer. Again, state complexity is typically
𝑂(poly(log𝑛)).
Finally, themessage complexitymeasures the total number of messages exchanged among peers during the
execution of a protocol, such as routing in order to retrieve content, or for having a peer join the network. This
metric reflects the communication overhead and, again, is often𝑂(poly(log𝑛)).
We highlight that, in many theoretical results,𝑂(poly(log𝑛))is considered to bescalablein the sense that this
quantity is (roughly) exponentially small in the system size𝑛.
Adversary.In the literature, all bad peers are typically assumed to be under the control of a singleadversary, since
this captures perfect collusion and cooperation between the bad peers. The termByzantineis sometimes used to
describe an adversary, originating from extensive research in secure distributed computing (e.g., [29, 30, 89, 117]).
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 3
Generally, the adversary has full knowledge of the network topology, and can send spurious messages to any good
peer. In settings where network resources (e.g., computation or bandwidth) play an important role, the adversary is
often assumed to control a constant fraction of such resources (this is discussed further in Section 2.3).
1.2 Overview of P2P Networks
To set the stage, we provide a brief overview of P2P systems and related security challenges. Generally, P2P
networks provide a decentralized environment, whereby all participants may act as both a client and a server [118].
This allows participants to share resources with each other, such as computing capacity, disk storage, and content.
To support this sharing, P2P networks provide content lookup and retrieval functionality, which hinges on efficient
routing.
In analyzing routing, many P2P constructions are explicit about the topology of the network; these arestructured
networks. In particular, we can view the network as a graph𝐺=(𝑉,𝐸) , where the elements of the vertex set𝑉
correspond to peers, and edges in𝐸 correspond to communication links in an overlay. Here, when a new peer joins
the system, there are rules about how it selects its neighbors; conversely, when a peer departs the system, there are
rules for how the graph is restructured due to the peers absence.
Arguably, the most popular example of a structured network is adistributed hash table (DHT). Informally,
a DHT solves the same problem as standard hash table with one caveat: the stored data and computing load is
distributed over multiple peers. In their simplest form, DHTs need to provide a single lookup(𝑘) function, which
returns a value associated with thekey 𝑘. This key is often an identifier (e.g., title or name) for some content, and
thevalueis typically the IP address of the peer that holds this content. The efficiency of a lookup() request is
usually measured by the number of edges traversed until the content is located; in practice, this loosely corresponds
to latency of a request. However, we note that there is significant work on this aspect alone (e.g., addressing
geographical constraints [38, 48], reliability [41], parallel searches [139]).
The literature on DHTs is vast, with popular constructions such as Chord [ 138], Viceroy [103], CAN [121],
Pastry [125], Kademlia [105], Koorde [80], Cycloid [134], and D2B [47]. We recommend the surveys by Lua et al.
[101], Hassanzadeh-Nazarabadi et al. [67], and Zhang et al. [160] for comprehensive review of these prior results.
Beyond DHTs, there are many other structured P2P networks; for example, BATON [ 74], skip graphs [ 6],
skip net [65, 66], rainbow skip graphs [ 55], skip-webs [5], and the hyperring [ 11]. Many of these results arise
from decentralizing other familiar data structures; for example, skip graphs are a decentralized version of the
well-known skip list [120]. These constructions offer various enhancements, some allowing for more complex
lookup functionality (e.g., range queries), or additional robustness to non-adversarial faults (e.g., crash failures).
We refer the interested reader to the survey by Malatras [102], who discusses many of these constructions.
In contrast to the above,unstructuredP2P networks, are far more flexible in terms of the allowed topology.
Often, peers are allowed to select their neighbors randomly. We highlight that there are a number of constructions,
e.g., Freenet [35], Napster, and Gnutella [129], FastTrack [97], Gia [33], Phenix [152], UMM [122], and Bittorent
[37]; for the interested reader, we recommend the survey by Malatras [ 102] for an in-depth discussion. Here,
however, we are concerned with surveying results that offer strong security guarantees, and from this perspective,
the literature predominantly focuses on structured P2P networks.
1.3 Overview of Security Challenges
Having reviewed P2P systems, we now analyze the ongoing security challenges in P2P networks. To begin,
it is worth considering why obtaining security guarantees can be challenging. For instance, if a peer deviates
from protocol, how can this be reliably detected? In a traditional client-server setting, a server might unilaterally
diagnose a misbehaving client. However, in the P2P setting, there is no trusted authority analogous to a server;
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

4 • Patel et al.
therefore, mechanisms designed to identify malicious peers might be exploited by an adversary to wrongfully
accuse legitimate peers.
Furthermore, even if a malicious peer is detected, mitigating its impact on the system remains difficult. In a
client-server model, servers can authenticate clients and block access using a blacklist. However, P2P networks are
open (or permissionless), allowing peers to join or leave freely without credentials. Consequently, a malicious peer
can easily rejoin using a new digital identity, making it challenging to effectively exclude bad actors.
More generally, although defensive strategies have advanced—as we explore in this survey—the fundamental
security challenges addressed in the literature remain largely unchanged since the review by Urdaneta et al. [145],
which we now review.
ASybil attackoccurs when a malicious actor creates multiple fakeidentifiers (IDs)in the network to gain
disproportionate influence or control over the system [43, 115]. By overwhelming the network with these fraudulent
IDs, the adversary can compromise security measures that depend on consensus mechanisms. Throughout, in this
context, we will often refer to bad peers asSybil peersorSybil IDs. While Sybil attacks may have been largely a
theoretical concern, they become a serious security threat in practice [114, 119, 137, 143, 150, 155].
The Sybil attack is effective in large part because creating IDs can be cheap. The generation of many IDs also
allows the adversary to intentionally induce high churn to disrupt the network. Each time a peer joins or departs,
links must be forged or torn down in order to accommodate the change in network topology. By repeatedly inserting
and removing malicious peers, an attacker can generate excessive churn, commonly known as ajoin-leaveattack.
Similarly, the adversary may use its Sybil IDs to issue many (spurious) lookup requests in order to consume network
resources. As noted earlier, the ease of generating new peer IDs complicates efforts to counter these threats.
Routing is necessary for looking up content. In the case of structured networks, routing is also needed to move
data from incoming peers to specific network locations to enable efficient lookups. For instance, in a DHT, each
peer maintains a set of neighbors, as depicted in Figure 1(A). When executing a lookup, a good peer selects one
of these neighbors to forward its request; for example, this is shown in Figure 1(B), where the peer with ID 11
forwards its request to the peers with IDs59and then75.
However, a single malicious or unresponsive peer along the route can disrupt the process by altering forwarded
content or failing to cooperate, causing the operation to fail. This behavior constitutes arouting attack. This is
illustrated in Figure 1(B), where a lookup initiated by the good peer with ID 11 passes through the bad peer with
ID35, who corrupts or drops the lookup request.
The relatedeclipse attackoccurs when an attacker or adversary isolates a targeted victim’s (node of a network)
communication with the rest of the network in a P2P network system, effectively controlling or manipulating all
kinds of communication for the victim node or nodes [136]. In Figure 1(C), the good peer with ID 11 is eclipsed,
since all of its neighbors to which it links under the construction rules of the DHT are bad peers.
Instead of corrupting routing, the adversary may target the availability of content in the P2P network. More
specifically, bad peers may deliberately sabotage the availability of content by mistitling it, or replacing it with
malware; alternatively, the quality of stored content can be intentionally degraded—such malicious behavior is
often referred to aspoisoning or pollution attacks, respectively [ 34, 96, 98]. In P2P applications that exist to
provide access to popular media, this type of malicious behavior can be especially disruptive.
1.4 Survey Scope and Organization
Over a decade ago, Urdaneta et al. [145] gave a comprehensive review of results on security techniques for DHTs.
Here, we aim to provide a follow-up survey of more-recent literature, with an expanded focus on general P2P
systems (rather than just DHTs).
Over a decade ago, Urdaneta et al. [145] reviewed security techniques for DHTs. This study extends their work
by surveying recent literature, broadening the scope to encompass P2P systems beyond DHTs. We largely focus on
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 5
99
75
11
59 43
27
99
75
11
59 43
27
35
51
20
67
99
75
11
59 43
27
35
51
20
67
(A) (B) (C)
Fig. 1. Good peers are colored blue, while bad peers are colored red. (Left) A DHT with only good peers. (Center)
Peer with ID 11 suffers an eclipse attack. (Right) An example of routing attack.
theoretical results and well-established analytical frameworks that provide strong security guarantees; however, we
also include heuristic approaches that exploit subtle patterns of Sybil behavior to enhance security, provided they
are grounded in rigorous evaluation or analysis.
Outside of this scope, we note there is an expansive literature on related topics, such as reputation systems (e.g.,
[56, 70, 85, 86, 100]) and anomaly detection (e.g., [1, 32]), which can complement the security guarantees given by
the papers reviewed here. Additionally, there has been a surge in research addressing blockchain technology, and
we refer the interested reader to the following surveys [27, 59, 108]. P2P networks and (open) blockchains, face
similar security challenges due to the lack of centralized control. Often, blockchain technology depends on a P2P
network for disseminating information; therefore, compromising the P2P network can jeopardize the corresponding
blockchain applications (e.g., see [39, 69]). Thus, while there is a relationship between permissionless blockchains
and P2P systems, the former relies on the security of the latter, which is the focus of our survey.
The remainder of our survey is structured as follows. In Section 2, we explore defenses against the Sybil
attack, along with related adversarial behavior such as join-leave attacks, that make use of contemporary methods;
specifically, the use of: social-network information (Subsection 2.1), ML (Subsection 2.2), and resource burning
(Subsection 2.3). In Section 3, we review the literature on routing attacks (Section 3) and associated misbehavior
(e.g., eclipse and poisoning/pollution attacks). In particular, we review approaches that leverage redundant routing
(Subsection 3); group-based approaches (Subsection 3.2), and constructions that tolerate high churn (Subsection
3.3). We also provide tables that summarize each paper we review, allowing for a quick comparison of the results.
Finally, at the end of each section, we provide a discussion, along with potential directions for future work.
2 Defenses Against the Sybil Attack
Recall from Section 1.3 that, since P2P systems typically have little-to-no administrative control, an adversary
may create multiple IDs and use them to disrupt critical functionality. This malicious behavior, known as the Sybil
attack, was first anticipated two decades ago [43]. In the interim, this attack has evolved from a theoretical concern
to a credible threat, with several real-world instances involving social networks [ 19, 132, 154] and P2P-based
applications [114, 150]. As a result, the research community has proposed methods for detecting and mitigating
Sybil attacks, and here we survey this literature.
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

6 • Patel et al.
good 
subgraph
bad 
subgraph
Attack 
Edge
Attack 
Edge
Attack 
Edge
Fig. 2. A depiction of an good subgraph (blue) and a bad subgraph connected by a small number of attack edges.
2.1 Leveraging Social Networks
The popularity of social networks has led to a vast literature on defenses that leverage their topological characteristics.
In the context of viewing the network as a graph, a key property in this section is a fastmixing time. The mixing
time of a graph is defined as the number of steps required for the distribution of a random walk’s position to become
“close” to the graph’s stationary distribution, irrespective of the initial starting vertex. A closely-related concept
isexpansion. Informally, a graph has good expansion if, for every subset 𝑆⊂𝑉 with|𝑆|≤𝑛/2 , the number of
distinct neighbors of𝑆, denoted Γ(𝑆) , is at least a constant times|𝑆| ; that is,|Γ(𝑆)|≥𝑐|𝑆| for some constant𝑐>1 .
For an overview of expansion properties and related notions, see the survey by Kowalski [87]. Graphs with strong
expansion properties support fast-mixing random walks, which are essential for several defenses we examine.
Urdaneta et al. [145] survey several results from this area, including the pioneering work by Yu et al. [ 159],
which presents a defense against Sybil attacks named SybilGuard. Here, we assume that the P2P network structure
incorporates or is overlaid with a social trust graph. This graph might be informed by real-world social relationships
(e.g., friend-to-friend networks), protocol-level trust mechanisms (e.g., manual authentication or key exchanges), or
implicit trust inferred from long-term interactions (e.g., nodes that have reliably shared resources). Thus, edges
represent a notion of social trust, and there should be few edges between bad and good nodes; such edges are
referred to asattack edges; see Figure 2. If we cut the attack edges, then the graph decomposes into two subgraphs:
thegood subgraphcontaining all good nodes, and thebad subgraphcontaining all bad nodes (i.e., the IDs
controlled by the Sybil adversary).
Under SybilGuard, each good node performs a deterministic analog to a random walk, called arandom route:
every good node maps each incoming edge to an outgoing edge randomly at first, and then this mapping is
maintained throughout the execution. A random route possesses the properties ofconvergenceandback-traceability.
Convergenceensures that two random routes entering along the same edge 𝑒 to a good node will always exit along
the same edge𝑒′ (it is not necessarily the case that𝑒=𝑒 ′).Back-traceabilityensures that if a random route exits a
node on edge𝑒, then we can identify the edge𝑒 ′ that it entered this node on.
Each random route has length𝑂(√𝑛log𝑛) , where𝑛 is the number of good nodes in the graph. By a birthday
paradox-like argument, two good nodes are likely have their random routes intersect within the good subgraph.
Such an intersection allows these two nodes to trust each other. A bad node may not follow protocol, but it is
nonetheless constrained by the scarcity of attack edges. Specifically, Yu et al. [159] prove that the probability of a
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 7
good node entering the bad subgraph is𝑜(1) ; that is, bad nodes are unlikely to be trusted. Subsequent results (e.g.,
[42, 92, 158]) share common ground with this approach, and are addressed by Urdaneta et al. [145].
What new defenses have emerged in the interim?Cao et al. [ 26] propose a defense named SybilRank, which
exploits the difference in mixing time between regions composed of good nodes and regions composed of bad
nodes. Combining the Louvain method [21] to identify communities in the social network, along with truncated
power iteration to approximate trust propagation by simulating many short random walks [90], SybilRank assigns a
trust value to nodes. Simulation results imply that SybilRank can outperform SybilLimit[158] and SybilInfer[42].
Additionally, the authors conduct a real-world experiment using the social network Tuenti [144], where SybilRank
yielded an 18-fold increase in the efficiency of identifying Sybil users as compared to Tuenti’s abuse-report-based
approach.
Another notable system is Whãnau, proposed by Lesniewski-Laas et al. [92], which is a Sybil-resistant DHT that
uses random walks to construct correct routing tables in the face of a Sybil adversary. Whãnau is able to tolerate
𝑂(𝑛/log𝑛) attack edges, and guarantees successful routing with high probability. Simulation results involving the
social networks Flickr, LiveJournal, YouTube, and DBLP suggests that most routing requests succeed when the
attack edges are less than10% of good nodes.
Making use of statistical methodology, Danezis and Mittal [ 42] introduce SybilInfer. For a given start and
endpoint of a random walk, called atrace, the authors design a Bayesian inference approach to determine the
likelihood that a trace involved good nodes. Through simulation results using real-world and synthetic data, the
authors show that SybilInfer can outperform SybilLimit and SybilGuard.
Wei et al. [ 151] propose SybilDefender, a centralized defense mechanism that identifies Sybil nodes using
random walks from known good nodes to reach the stationary distribution and select judge nodes, which then
classify others based on visit frequency. Nodes resembling the good subgraph in walk behavior are deemed good;
otherwise, they are flagged as Sybils. A complementary component, Sybil Community Detection, initiates walks
from known bad nodes to efficiently identify clusters of Sybil identities. To further reduce attack edges, the authors
introduce relationship rating and activity rating, leveraging user-rated relationships and interaction frequency,
respectively. SybilDefender is evaluated using data sampled from Orkut and Facebook, and the results favor
SybilDefender over SybilLimit, in terms of accuracy and run time by up to two orders of magnitude.
Tran et al. [142] propose GateKeeper, a defense that assumes the fast-mixing properties of random expander
graphs. GateKeeper uses𝑚 random nodes as sources of “tickets”, which (loosely) are a form of proof that allow
nodes admission to the network. Informally, good nodes should obtain many tickets, given that they belong to a
fast-mixing subgraph, while bad nodes should receive far fewer. Nodes must obtain some threshold number of
tickets in order to be admitted. GateKeeper offers strong theoretical guarantees, restricting bad nodes to𝑂(log𝑘)
per attack edge (where𝑘is the number of attack edges).
Given the reliance on random walks in literature, we highlight the survey by Alvisi et al. [2], which addresses the
structural properties of social graphs in Sybil defense protocols based on random walks to detect Sybil nodes. The
characteristics of social graphs, such as conductance and mixing time of random walks, which help in differentiating
between good and bad (i.e., Sybil) regions within the network are referred to asstructural properties. The authors
address previous assumptions about these networks being made of two separate regions (good and Sybil), which
are incorrect, as good regions are actually groups of loosely connected nodes. The authors highlight the importance
of careful selection of community selection algorithms to avoid mis-classifying adversarial nodes as good. They
suggest that Sybil defense should aim to securely whitelist a set of trustworthy nodes rather than attempting
universal Sybil detection.
Finally, we highlight an earlier result, not surveyed by Urdaneta et al. [145], by Scheideler and Schmid [130].
Here, the authors design and analyze a distributed (min) heap called SHELL, with efficient methods for peer
joins/departures and routing. Specifically, each join operation can be performed in 𝑂(log𝑛) time and requires
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

8 • Patel et al.
𝑂(log 2𝑛) updates to the network topology; each deletions requires constant time with, again,𝑂(log 2𝑛) updates.
Routing can be accomplished in𝑂(log𝑛) hops, allowing for fast lookups. A major novelty of the work is that any
two peers,𝑢 and𝑣 can route along paths only involving peers that joined the system prior to𝑢 and𝑣. This yields
some advantages with respect to tolerating churn and the Sybil attack. In particular, peers that frequently join and
depart the system will not interfere with these “older” routes. Informally, this is accomplished by setting the key
value of each peer in the heap to be its join time; these “time stamps” are assumed to be verifiable. Given this
assignment of key values, peers that contribute to churn are located near the bottom of the heap, while older (more
stable) peers are positioned near the top of the heap. Thus, routing among these older peers involves only the top
portion of the heap. This structural property also yields robustness to the Sybil attack. Suppose that Sybil attack
occurs at some time𝑡 after join times of𝑢 and𝑣. All of the bad peers introduced by the Sybil adversary will have
key values larger than those of𝑢 and𝑣; therefore, again,𝑢 and𝑣 may route using only those older peers, thus being
unaffected by the attack.
2.2 Machine Learning Methods
In the previous section, we surveyed defenses that leveraged the fast-mixing properties of networks in order to
mitigate Sybil attacks. While this property may be available for some P2P systems, there is evidence to suggest that
not all overlays do [22, 147]. What defenses are possible then?
In this section, we review defenses based on ML methods, which often avoid the same degree of reliance on
purely structural properties. The application of these techniques to various aspects of network security issues has
been surveyed (e.g., [24, 133]); here, we focus on results with a close connection to P2P systems.
Early work by Haribabu et al. [64] employs a multi-layered feed-forward neural network approach to detect
Sybil behavior in P2P networks. Aspects such as the number of queries sent, number of neighbors, and amount
of content contributed are used as input features for a neural network. The network is trained using supervised
learning with backpropagation to identify potentially malicious peers. Suspected peers are assigned a CAPTCHA,
and their responses determine whether they are classified as Sybil attackers or legitimate users.
A result by Cai and Rojas-Cessa [25] addresses Sybil attacks on P2P trust management systems. The authors
propose a framework with three mechanisms: a local trust table for tracking suspicious interactions, a 𝑘-means
clustering algorithm for grouping peers by trust, and a cryptographic transaction verification method to prevent
false reports.
Gong et al. [54] discuss the vulnerability of P2P systems to the Sybil attack and propose a defense, SybilBelief,
which they claim overcomes a shortcoming in previous approaches. Unlike the supervised learning used by the
method of Haribabu et al [64], SybilBelief is designed by recasting the social network as a Markov Random Field
(MRF) [36], and then using Loopy Belief Propagation (LBP) [111] to arrive at a probability that a node is good or
Sybil. The authors argue that this approach is a more robust and scalable approach.
Subsequent to SybilBelief, Gao et al. [ 49] propose SybilFrame, which the authors claim to improve upon
SybilBelief. This improvement is achieved by combining local node classification—which is informed by structural
properties of the graph and crowdsourcing—and MRF with LBP. An interesting aspect of SybilFrame is that it
finds application in settings where trust between participants is weak and the number of attack edges can be high;
this is in contrast to much of the prior work, which assumes relatively few attack edges are forged. Another related
result is by Gao et al. [ 50] who propose SybilFuse, which is a defense that combines node and edge classifiers
in order to compute local trust scores for both nodes and edges, respectively. The use of this in P2P systems is
proposed by Gupta et al. [63] (discussed in Section 2.3).
Another classification-based result that is related to secure P2P systems is by Boshmaf et al.[22]. The authors
argue that a sophisticated Sybil adversary may not impact the mixing time of the network, thus thwarting many
methods discussed in Section 2.1. For example, in a structured P2P system, the adversary may have its Sybil
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 9
IDs adopt the network topology; therefore, there is no structural difference between the good and bad subgraphs.
Boshmaf et al.[22] discuss these ideas and their implications, specifically with respect to DHTs.
2.3 Resource-Burning Approaches
Resource burning (RB)is the verifiable expenditure of a resource, and its application to security problems goes back
over two decades (e.g., [44, 45]). What is a resource? Commonly, this refers to computational power, bandwidth,
computer memory, or even human attention. Puzzles or challenges of tunable difficulty can be designed around such
a resource; for instance, computational puzzles have a long history in the literature [45, 91, 99]. Another common
puzzle type is thecompletely automated public Turing test to tell computers and humans apart (CAPTCHA), where
the resource is human effort [16, 109, 148]. Challenges based on bandwidth require the user to send a sufficient
number of bits within a bounded amount of time [149]. Additional puzzle constructions exist:Proof of Space-Time,
which requires allocation of storage capacity [110]; andProof of useful-work, which consumes CPU cycles to solve
real-world scientific or engineering problems [17, 135].
With the adoption of proof-of-work (PoW) in systems such as BitCoin [112], FileCoin [18], and (inital versions
of) Ethereum [46], RB has become a ubiquitous security tool. Ultimately, burning such resources translates into
a monetary cost. As we will see, RB-based defenses can have a “rate-limiting” effect against a resource-limited
adversary by imposing a cost on producing and maintaining Sybil IDs in the system.
In the context of DHTs, a cost analysis by Urueña et al. [146] involves estimating the total number of Sybil IDs
needed to thwart access to specific content [77, 138]. Given this estimate, the authors argue that an attacker must
control a large number of IDs in order to successfully deny access to targeted content. Therefore, a small amount of
RB for each ID generated should be sufficient to inflict a prohibitive cost on the adversary, thus preventing the
majority of attacks on content storage and retrieval.
Several results assign puzzles to peers that must be solved within a certain amount of time; otherwise, the
associated peer is essentially blacklisted by other peers. One such result pertaining to DHTs is by Li et al. [94],
who propose a defense called SYBILCONTROL. This defense employs computational puzzles to restrict the number
of IDs that a Sybil adversary can generate. For any ID 𝑢, its neighbors issue individual puzzles, which can be
combined into a single puzzle for𝑢 to solve. A verifiable solution to this puzzle must be returned to𝑢’s neighbors
within a short timeframe; failure to do so results in these neighbors excluding𝑢 from the system. Simulation results
using the Chord DHT show that SybilControl enables successful routing with latency comparable to the original
Chord system, even in the presence of a powerful Sybil adversary.
A related result by Gupta et al. [60] leverages PoW to protect general distributed systems, including peer-to-peer
networks. Each ID that wishes to join must solve a puzzle, which imposes a cost for entrance into the system.
Furthermore, each time the total system size changes by a constant factor, all IDs must solve a puzzle in order to
keep participating; this is referred to as apurge, and it imposes apurge cost. A committee of IDs is responsible for
issuing puzzles and verifying responses. Committee membership is decided by selecting IDs uniformly at random,
which guarantees (with high probability) that the committee contains a good majority; therefore, the committee can
act correctly by consensus. By forcing purges, the fraction of bad IDs in the system is limited to a minority. The
authors show how to carefully trade off between entrance and purge costs such that the cumulative cost imposed on
the good IDs is𝑂(𝑇+𝑔) , where𝑇 is the computational cost to the adversary, and𝑔 is the number of good IDs that
have joined the system so far. Importantly, if𝑇 is small with respect to𝑔, then the good IDs pay a resource cost that
is proportional to their number, which seems reasonable. Otherwise, when𝑇 is large to𝑔 (i.e., the system is under
substantial attack), the good IDs are not paying a cost that is asymptotically greater than the adversary.
Continuing in this line of work, Gupta et al. [61, 63] propose a RB-based defense, where the difficulty of the
entrance puzzle is tunable. As in [60], purges are conducted whenever the system size changes by a constant factor.
By carefully tuning the hardness of the entrance puzzles, the cost to the algorithm is𝑂(√TJ+J) , where nowT
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

10 • Patel et al.
P2P 
Network
Suspicion 
Level
Suspicion 
Level
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.7
Hard 
Puzzle
Easy 
Puzzle
(A)
(B)
(C)
Fig. 3. (Left) When new peers join the system, they both receive an equal 0.5 trustworthiness score (Center). As
other factors contribute, these scores changes, which (Right) impacts the difficult level of puzzles they must solve in
order to remain in the system.
is the RB rate of the adversary (i.e., the total resources burned by the adversary divided by the execution time),
andJ is the join rate of good IDs (i.e., the total number of good IDs divided by the execution time). Notably, this
result provides an advantageous defense in the sense that attackers will spend asymptotically more resources than
the good IDs. Through simulation results using real-world network data, the authors conclude that their algorithms
are competitive with the contemporary PoW-based Sybil defense, SYBILCONTROL, and can be significantly more
efficient under attack.
Günther and Pietrzak [58] explore the use of Proof of Space (PoSp) in DHTs, where peers must prove wasted
disk space to limit the number of Sybil peers. This approach is suitable for storage-heavy applications, making
attacks costly by requiring adversaries to contribute significant disk space to control a substantial portion of peers
in the DHT.
In addition to a time constraint on receiving a valid puzzle solution, some approaches use additional information
to identify peers suspected of being malicious and assigns them increasingly hard puzzles; this is illustrated in
Figure 3. Li et al. [93] presents a defense against the Sybil attack that requires every peer to periodically solve PoW
puzzles, issued to all identities simultaneously at fixed intervals; this is similar to the notion of a purge used in [60].
If a peer misses a verification deadline, it is marked as suspicious and must solve a harder puzzle in the next round,
increasing the cost for attackers. Similarly, Da Costa Cordeiro et al. [40] uses computational puzzles to limit identity
creation. Given an identity request, the source peer is assigned a score based on the ratio of identities granted to its
associated users (e.g., peers operating from the same IP address range, or located in the same geographic region)
compared to the average across other peers. Those peers with frequent identity requests must solve more difficult
puzzles. In both works, the analysis and experimental results demonstrate that the approach can significantly reduce
the effectiveness of Sybil attacks while maintaining low overhead for good peers.
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 11
2.4 Summary of Results
The following table summarizes the results surveyed in Section 2.
Type of Defense Name(s) Brief Summary
Leveraging
Social Networks
Yu et al. [159] SybilGuard introduces the use of mixing time properties
in social graphs. Specifically, they assume that the good
subgraph tends to be fast-mixing, while the bad subgraph is
not. SybilGuard tolerates𝑂(√𝑛log𝑛) bad nodes, provided
that the number of attack edges remains𝑜(√𝑛/log𝑛) , where
𝑛is the number of good nodes.
Yu et al. [158] SybilLimit builds on SybilGuard’s approach by reducing the
number of bad nodes admitted per attack edge to𝑂(log𝑛)
with high probability.
Lesniewski-Laas et al. [92] Whãnau is a Sybil-resistant DHT that leverages social con-
nections to establish secure routing using routing tables
of size 𝑂(√𝑛log𝑛) entries per node, and tolerating up to
𝑂(𝑛/log𝑛)attack edges.
Cao et al. [26] SybilRank ranks nodes by evaluating the length of random
walks, assigning lower trust to nodes found at the tail-end of
these walks. It incorporates trust propagation to other nodes
and employs the Louvain method for community detection.
Wei et al. [151] SybilDefender identifies communities of Sybil nodes using
random walks. It achieves a lower false-negative rate and
better scalability compared to SybilGuard and SybilLimit.
It incorporates relationship and activity ratings to reduce
attack edges for accuracy and run-time.
Danezis and Mittal [42] SybilInfer is a centralized algorithm that uses Bayesian in-
ference to identify Sybil nodes by detecting reduced graph
conductance.
Scheideler and Schmid
[130]
The SHELL distributed heap (min) enabling fast updates
with𝑂(log 2𝑛) network adjustments and 𝑂(log𝑛) routing
time. However, the system assumes timestamps are unforge-
able, which is a strong requirement for resilience against
churn and Sybil attacks.
Tran et al. [142] GateKeeper leverages random expander graphs and a ticket-
distribution scheme to limit bad nodes. This defense ensures
that honest nodes are included while restricting bad nodes
to𝑂(log𝑘) per attack edge, where𝑘 is the number of attack
edges.
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

12 • Patel et al.
Type of Defense Name(s) Brief Summary
Machine Learning
Methods
Gong et al. [54] SybilBelief uses Markov Random Fields and Loopy Belief
Propagation (LBP). It overcomes noise issues in previous
methods, providing robustness and scaling linearly with
network size.
Gao et al. [49] SybilFrame enhances SybilBelief by integrating local node
classification with Markov Random Fields and LBP. It is
particularly effective in environments with low trust and a
high density of attack edges.
Gao et al. [50] SybilFuse combines node and edge classifiers to compute
local trust scores for both nodes and edges.
Boshmaf et al. [22] Sybil adversaries can avoid detection by mixing Sybil IDs
into the network topology, minimizing structural differences.
They explore these concepts and their implications, particu-
larly with respect to DHTs.
Haribabu et al. [64] Employs a neural network approach to identify suspicious
peers, and then issues each such peer a CAPTCHA for con-
firmation.
Cai and Rojas-Cessa [25] Propose a framework with local trust tables,𝑘-means clus-
tering, and transaction verification to protect trust schemes
from Sybil attacks.
Resource Burning
Approaches
Li et al. [94] SybilControl uses computational puzzles to restrict Sybil
IDs. It maintains similar routing latency to the Chord DHT,
even under a strong Sybil attack.
Gupta et al. [60] This work builds a secure distributed system by requiring
PoW for entry and periodic purges to limit bad IDs. Good
IDs incur a cost of𝑂(𝑇+𝑔) , where𝑇 is the adversary’s cost
and𝑔is the number of good IDs.
Gupta et al. [61, 63] This work builds on [60], but the difficulty of the entrance
puzzle is tunable. By carefully tuning the puzzle’s hardness,
the algorithm incurs a cost of 𝑂(√𝑇𝐽+𝐽) , where now 𝑇
represents the RB rate of the adversary, and𝐽 is the join rate
of good IDs.
Günther and Pietrzak [58] Makes use of Proof of Space in DHTs to limit the number
of Sybil peers.
Li et al. [93] Peers are periodically required to solve PoW puzzles issued
to all identities simultaneously at fixed intervals, with diffi-
cult increasing for those peers that fail to respond in time.
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 13
Type of Defense Name(s) Brief Summary
Da Costa Cordeiro et al.
[40]
Frequent identity-creation requests by peers or associated
peers results in that increasingly harder puzzles are assigned
prior to fulfilling the request.
2.5 Discussion and Future Work
It is worthwhile to compare the general approaches surveyed in Sections 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3. Given the continuing
popularity of social networks, defenses based on their topological properties allow us to exploit data on human
interactions in order to enhance security. However, almost all of these defenses rely on two assumptions. First, the
good subgraph must be fast mixing, which may not hold true [ 2]; thus, methods of improving the mixing time
would benefit these defenses, which is explored by Mohaisen and Hollenbeck [107]. Second, forming attack edges
is difficult; however, this may not always hold in real-world scenarios where users accept connections without
scrutiny, as experimental evidence suggests [20].
ML and classification-based approaches—such as SybilBelief, SybilFrame, and SybilFuse—avoid reliance on
the topological assumptions discussed above. These methods leverage techniques like Markov Random Fields
and Loopy Belief Propagation to assign probabilities to nodes, providing scalability and resilience to noisy data
[54]. However, they are not without flaws; sophisticated adversaries can mimic network topologies to evade
detection, particularly in structured systems like DHTs [22]. Additionally, although substantial empirical evidence
demonstrates the effectiveness of these approaches, they lack the rigorous mathematical guarantees established by
theoretical results in the literature.
Finally, as discussed, RB has become a popular security technique in practice. Even for challenging adversarial
models, provable security guarantees can be demonstrated, such as bounds on the number of Sybil peers, and the
relative amount of RB performed by the adversary versus the good peers. However, many RB-based defenses are
proactive, always imposing an RB cost, even in the absence of an attack. For example, in the simulations performed
with SYBILCONTROL[ 94], each ID𝑢 is issued a puzzle by its neighbors every 5 seconds, regardless of the number
of Sybil IDs present in the system. In contrast, the result by Urueña et al. [146] does not suffer as much from this
issue, since their proposed defense attaches a small RB cost to each ID created; thus, good IDs that remain in the
system are not charged in perpetuity. This situation is remedied to an extent by the results in [60, 61], where the
amount of RB imposed on IDs isreactivelytuned such that the good IDs have an RB cost that is asymptotically
equal to or smaller than the adversary’s cost. Nonetheless, all defenses incur some additional overhead, even when
there is no attack.
In terms of future work, there are several directions that seem promising. First, in the context of defenses based
on social-network topology, it may be useful to consider a network model that captures a cost to the adversary
for establishing each edge between bad nodes and good nodes. For example, in practice, large language models
(LLMs) may be able to fool good participants into forming strong social connections with Sybil IDs; however, such
an attack may incur a monetary cost or require substantial time to execute.
Conversely, what about the cost to defenders? Integrating ML-based techniques with Sybil detection algorithms
has shown progress, as we discussed above. However, there may be costs associated with these ML-driven
approaches used to detect attack edges or Sybil nodes. For example, training and retraining can have a substantial
cost in terms of computation and time. More meaningful defenses may be designed by accounting for these costs in
the model. Additionally, such costs may be reduced by leveraging information gleamed from the graph structure in
order to aid ML (e.g., [78], [140]).
On a related note, it might be intriguing to design and analyze a defense where key structural invariants—such as
low diameter, the prevention of eclipse attacks, maintaining good expansion—can be preserved at a cost, despite an
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

14 • Patel et al.
adversary adding or removing edges, also with associated costs. There is some general prior work in this direction
(e.g., [104, 141]). Specific to expansion, work by Pandurangan et al. [ 116] shows how this can be efficiently
maintained, despite adversarial node deletions and additions. However, this result seems unsuitable for social
networks given that edges represent trusted relationships between the endpoints, which cannot easily be altered. Is
there a way to maintain expansion over time, while accounting for such constraints in social networks? Developing
defenses that maintain key properties, and where the adversary’s costs significantly exceed those of good nodes,
would be compelling.
3 Defenses for Routing Attacks
Routing attacks encompass various malicious actions, such as when a malicious peer, tasked with facilitating a
route, becomes unresponsive or deliberately drops or corrupts the data it is supposed to forward. An eclipse attack
(recall Section 1.3) can be viewed as an attack on routing, where an adversary attempts to isolate a set of nodes and,
thus, control what information can be routed to them. Here, we survey results that propose defenses against these
attacks.
3.1 Redundant Routing
Redundant routing in P2P systems involves sending multiple parallel messages along diverse and (largely) indepen-
dent network paths to limit the impact of bad nodes. By leveraging path diversity, we can reduce the likelihood that
all routes are compromised or controlled by the adversary, thus enhancing security. In the following, we examine
several works that incorporate redundant routing as a core defense mechanism.
Li et al. [ 95] propose modifications to the Kademlia DHT [ 105] that make it more robust to eclipse attacks.
In order to check that content is published correctly, a random peer is selected to perform a lookup, and if the
correct content is received, publication is assumed to be successful. Otherwise, a more involved protocol is used
that involves exploring nodes close to the corresponding content’s key value, in the hopes that any faults along the
original lookup path can be bypassed. Additionally, the correctness of a peer𝑢 (and its data) is verified through
the use of “witnesses”, which are other peers that vouch for𝑢. These approaches are used under the assumption
that at least 95% of the peers are correct. The authors report that their approach performs well, using a network of
10,000 peers. More than 1,000 distinct public IP addresses are needed to successfully achieve an eclipse attack. We
note that, in practice, the largest Kademlia-based system is the BitTorrent Mainline DHT, which serves between 10
million and 25 million users on a daily basis [150]. The result by Li et al. [95] implies that an adversary would
need an enormous number of IP addresses to successfully attack a system of this size.
Germanus et al. [52] consider an adversary who uses knowledge of the network’s topology to eclipse good nodes
with minimal resources. The authors illustrate the feasibility of attacks in several structured P2P systems, such
as Chord, Kademlia, and Pastry. Subsequent work by Germanus et al. [53] proposes methods aimed at providing
routing that is resilient to eclipse attacks. Simulations suggest that these heuristics offer promising performance
in Kademlia-based DHTs, although the system size is limited to approxmiately 10𝐾, and high churn hampers the
effectiveness of their mitigation strategies. In a follow-up paper Germanus et al. [51] propose a mitigation strategy
that scales to hundreds of thousands of peers and allows for 90% to 100% of lookups to succeed, even in the
presence of high churn.
In closely-related work, Heilman et al. [69] use of Monte Carlo simulations to quantify the resources needed by
an adversary to perform eclipse attacks on the Bitcoin network. In general, these simulations show that a successful
attack requires a large number of addresses in a number of different IP address blocks. However, the authors point
out that organizations do exist with sufficient IP addresses to launch an attack; additionally, there exist botnets with
over 29,000 hosts that could satisfy these requirements. Finally, the paper discusses potential countermeasures to
these attacks, three of which were subsequently implemented by the Bitcoin developers as of2015.
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 15
In the context of the Chord DHT, Rottondi et al. [123] develop a simulation to investigate the effects of eclipse
attacks, and they argue that attacks can be mitigated by modifications to the routing protocol. Specifically, the
authors call for the addition of extra peers to each node’s finger table that allow for redundant routing; these extra
peers form anauxiliary node list. Creation of this list can be done in either a centralized or distributed manner; the
former requires a trusted third party with full topological information to set up the lists, while the latter has a peer
add to its auxiliary list any source node whose request it facilitates. For a system size up to 1,000 peers, simulation
results illustrate that the use of the proposed counter measure can mitigate the influence of an eclipse attack, with
the centralized implementation performing best.
Kapadia and Triandopoulos [81] also examine routing attacks in the Chord DHT. The authors propose a “High-
Assurance LOcate" (or HALO) protocol for DHTs that leverages the use of redundant routes to tolerate Byzantine
faults (recall Section 1.1). Here, the threat model assumes that each peer is Byzantine independently with uniform
probability; that is, this is a random fault model. Using the Chord DHT with𝑛 peers, HALO operates by identifying
the Θ(log𝑛) immediate predecessors of a target peer𝑣; these are known as the “knuckles” of𝑣. Intuitively, with
high probability there will be at least one knuckle that is correct, given that faults occur randomly. 1 A query is
routed using the regular Chord lookup procedure on each knuckle, after which the query succeeds given that at
least one knuckle is correct. Simulation results indicate that HALO can provide secure routing (i.e., without failure)
when up to 22% of the network peers are Byzantine. Even when 25% of the peers are Byzantine, the percentage of
lookup failures is low at most 3%.
3.2 Group-Based Approaches
The use of small sets of peers, often calledgroups 2, is a very common solution to attacks on routing, including
the eclipse attack. So long as each group has a majority of good peers, secure routing can occur via all-to-all
communication between groups. Of all the messages a fixed peer receives, the message in the majority will be
correct, which the peer then acts on to facilitate a lookup request; this is illustrated in Figure 4. Thus, groups rather
than peers become the “atomic” unit of the P2P network, and majority filtering provides scalable resilience to
malicious behavior.
We wish to highlight, that the use of groups also mitigates pollution/poisoning (recall Section 1.3). Each peer
can store replicas of the data stored by other members of its group. In this way, content contributed by good
nodes cannot be deleted or corrupted by bad nodes. Additionally, if paired with a defense that limits the Sybil IDs
to a minority (e.g.,[60, 61, 63]), groups can lessen the impact of join-leave attacks and spurious lookups. Each
group may control the number of join events they permit per interval of time. While this does not prevent bad
peers from joining, it does limit their join rate, and thus their contribution to churn. Similarly, each peer𝑢 may be
allocated an upper limit on the number of lookups it can perform per time interval. This limit can be enforced by
the corresponding group, since if their messages do not accompany𝑢’s, then the good peers in the receiving group
will simply ignore𝑢’s request.
Urdaneta et al. [ 145] describe several earlier results on the use of groups. This approach was initiated by
Awerbuch and Scheideler [10], which achieves provable security so long as the fraction of bad peers is𝑂(1/log𝑁) ,
the join rate of bad peers remainsO(1/log 2𝑁) , and the join and departure rate of honest peers stays bounded at
O(1/log𝑁) . Later results by Awerbuch and Scheideler [13, 14]—again, surveyed by Urdaneta et al. [145]—achieve
stronger guarantees, being able to tolerate a constant fraction of bad peers, and having no restrictions on the join
and departure rates. More specifically, Awerbuch and Scheideler design an algorithm called thecuckoo rule, which
works as follows. If a new peer𝑣 wants to join the system, then𝑣 is placed at a random point in the normalized ID
space,[0,1) . For a constant𝑘>0 , all of the peers in a region of size𝑘/𝑛 are evicted to uniformly and independently
1An event occurs with probability at least1−1/𝑛 𝑐 for some tunable constant𝑐≥1is said to occur “with high probability”.
2Sometimes groups are referred to by different names, such as clusters [57] or quorums [128].
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

16 • Patel et al.
Fig. 4. (Left) Alice attempts to route a message 𝐴 to Bob, but the message is corrupted by an intermediate bad peer.
(Right) The use of groups to ensure Alice’s message is securely routed despite bad peers.
chosen random points in the ID space. Awerbuch and Scheideler show that this rule maintains two important
conditions: the Balancing Condition, and the Majority Condition. For every interval of𝐼 in the normalized ID space,
[0,1) , of size at least(𝑐log𝑛)/𝑛 for a constant𝑐>0 : the Balancing Condition is met if𝐼 contains Θ(|𝐼|𝑛) peers,
and the majority condition is met if𝐼contains a majority of honest peers.
Subsequent to the survey by Urdaneta et al. [145], Sen and Freedman [131] demonstrated that a revision to the
cuckoo rule can improve performance. Simulation results of the original cuckoo rule indicate that, over time, peers
become distributed non-uniformly in the ID space; this has a compounding effect whereby the number of peers per
𝑘-region exhibits high variance. This results in the need for a larger group size to be used (e.g., 256 peers per group
when𝑛=2048 ), which impacts practical performance. To address this issue, the authors propose a newcommensal
cuckoo rulethat is executed each time a new peer joins at some location𝑥∈[0,1) . Informally, in the corresponding
𝑘-region, rather than moving all peers to locations chosen uniform at random in the ID space, the new rule moves
only𝑘·𝑟 randomly chosen peers, where𝑟 is the ratio of the current group size to the average group size. Simulating
system sizes of up to approximately 8000 peers, the authors find that, in comparison to the original cuckoo rule,
their new rule provides a significant increase in the robustness to Byzantine peers using groups of size64.
Random number generation is important to the cuckoo rule. As we have seen, a joining peer is typically assigned
a group uniform at random, which mitigates (to some degree) the ability of the adversary to obtain a bad majority in
any group. The original cuckoo rule requires𝑂(log 2𝑛) random bits per join operation. Therefore, efficient random
number generation is an important ingredient. Using secure multiparty computation, a group of size Θ(log𝑛)
can generate𝑂(log𝑛) random bits with𝑂(log 3𝑛) message complexity [13]. However, Awerbuch and Scheideler
[12] are able to improve on this situation by designing a distributed random number generator (RNG) —called a
round-robin RNG—that generates Θ(log𝑛) random bits with a small bias, but requires only𝑂(log 2𝑛) message
complexity. The authors then show how, despite this bias, a revised version of the cuckoo rule—called thede Bruijn
cuckoo rule—can use the𝑂(log𝑛) random bits per join to maintain the balancing and majority conditions with
high probability over a polynomial number of join operations.
Another aspect of group-based defenses that has received is reducing the communication costs. While all-to-all
communication (as illustrated in Figure 4) suffices, each communication between adjacent groups yields a message
complexity of Θ(log 2𝑛), given that groups are each of size Θ(log𝑛) . Early work by Saia and Young [128] reduces
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 17
the message complexity to𝑂(log𝑛)in expectation, as well as reducing the bit complexity in the case where large
messages are sent. Subsequent work by Young et al. [156, 157] uses cryptographic methods to give a deterministic
method with𝑂(log𝑛) message complexity, and a randomized method with𝑂(1) expected message complexity, for
communication between two adjacent groups. Notably, the application of this latter result in a DHT where each
lookup requires with high probability𝑂(log𝑛) hops (e.g., the Chord DHT), results in𝑂(log𝑛) hops in expectation.
Thus, this performance is comparable to that of non-group-based communication, demonstrating that group-based
approaches can achieve near-equivalent efficiency in terms of hop count.
Yet another optimization is explored with respect to the group size, where Jaiyeola et al. [75] show how PoW
can be used to reduce the group size to𝑂(log log𝑛) . Despite shrinking the groups size substantially, the authors
show that the system can withsand a Byzantine adversary that controls a constant fraction of the peers. The use of
PoW incurs an additional computational cost that is absent from prior work in this area. Additionally, some small
𝑜(1) -fraction of the ID space in the DHT cannot facilitate lookups reliably; however, with high probability the vast
majority of lookups will succeed.
Saad and Saia [126] consider a model where an adversary controls𝑡≤(1/4−𝜖)𝑛 nodes in an𝑛 node network,
where𝜖>0 is a (small) constant. In this setting, the authors explore how to perform reliable multiparty commu-
nication (MPC), where each node has an input, and the nodes wish to jointly compute a function 𝑓 over these
inputs. Again, the proposed approach makes use of Θ(log𝑛) -sized groups, where each group contains at most
1/4-fraction of faulty nodes. These groups are used as gates to form a general circuit. An interesting aspect of the
authors’ approach is that, once a corrupted message is detected, the corresponding bad peer can be “deleted” from
the network. This deletion is effected by having good peers ignore messages from this bad peer, thus effectively
quarantining the bad peer; in this way the algorithm is self-healing. This algorithm accomplishes MPC with
𝑂(𝑚+𝑛log𝑛) messages,𝑂(𝑚+𝑛log𝑛) computation, and𝑂(𝑙) latency, where𝑙 is the depth of the circuit that
computes𝑓 . Moreover, the authors show that the adversary can cause only𝑂(𝑡(log∗𝑚) 2) corruptions before all of
its bad peers are deleted. Simulation results in [127] illustrate that this algorithm greatly reduces the message cost
compared to the naive approach.
An earlier paper by Knockel et al. [ 84] proposes a less general result in a similar setting where, instead of
computing a circuit, the authors show how to maintain communication between all good peers with near optimal
communication cost and latency. Another similar paper by Boshrooyeh and Ozkasap [ 23] proposes a security
mechanism for skip graphs, making use of cryptographic signatures to isolate badly behaving peers. Likewise,
Ismail et al. [ 72, 73] propose a method for cleaning up bad peers in groups. Informally, their heuristic works
by having good peers issue requests to peers they suspect of being bad, based on corrupted responses. When a
sufficient number of peers agree that a peer is bad, this peer is evicted from the system (i.e., removed from the
routing tables of good peers that made this diagnosis).
The Fireflies system by Johansen et al. [79] shares some common ground with the above approaches in that it
makes use of “accusations”. Specifically, with the identifier space represented by a ring, a predecessor of peer𝑢 can
accuse𝑢 of being Byzantine. Since positions are (pseudo)random due to hashing, it is unlikely that any good peer
will have a large number of Byzantine predecessors. Thus, the value of𝑡 can be chosen to reduce the probability to
some tolerable value, ensuring that at least𝑡+1 (i.e., a majority of its) predecessors are good. This property also
underpins the authors’ claim that the good peers remain connected within the Fireflies topology. Peers periodically
broadcast their accusations to the network and update their view based on broadcasts they receive from other peers.
If an accusation is made by peer𝑣 and the accused peer does not respond within a bounded amount of time, then𝑣
removes the accused peer from its own view of the network. By itself, Fireflies does not provide secure routing. The
authors argue that a single-hop DHT can be built on top of Fireflies, but this requires that each good peer has a large
forwarding table. A construction for DHTs where peers have only a partial view of the network is not provided. The
authors experiment with their construction on PlanetLab. With up to 20% of the peers being Byzantine, Fireflies
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

18 • Patel et al.
gave good performance; specifically, in the cases where Byzantine peers sent spurious accusations or refused to
participate in forwarding accusations.
Guerraoui et al. [57] consider a model where the system size is always at least𝑛0, but allows for a polynomial
change in𝑛0 over time. This stands in contrast to many other results in the static setting, where𝑛 does not change
by more than a constant factor (recall Section 1.1). In this setting, the authors propose P2P system that can tolerate
a Byzantine adversary who controls strictly less than a 1/3-fraction of the peers. A key ingredient is the familiar
use of groups of Θ(log𝑛) peers in order to majority filter on decisions, where𝑛 is the current systems size. Groups
may merge or split, depending upon whether a group finds itself to be too small or too large, respectively, as the
system size changes. The groups link together to form a network topology which has good expansion. A group
can be chosen uniformly at random by performing a random walk on this expander graph, which is important
for placing newly-joined peers into the system. Overall, the authors show that secure lookup is possible with
polylogarithmic-in-𝑛latency and message complexity.
Another work that deals with system churn is by Kuhn et al. [88] present a construction that tolerates worst-case
churn using groups organized into a hypercube topology. The authors assume a model where time proceeds in
rounds, and an attacker uses peer insertions and deletions in each round in an attempt to partition the network (e.g.,
see [68] for an empirical exploration of such an attack). The authors prove that, even with𝑂(log𝑛) peers being
inserted or removed per round, it is possible to preserve connectivity and all network content, while maintaining
logarithmic degree and optimal diameter.
Aradhya et al. [4] also address the design of a robust DHT in a dynamic setting. Here, the number joins and
departures obeys a half life (i.e., given𝐻 peers currently in the system, over the half-life time, at most𝐻/2 new peers
can join or at most𝐻/2 peers can depart). Their approach makes use of Θ(log𝑛) -sized groups (called committees)
that are linked in a hypercubic topology; however, a novel ingredient used in this DHT construction is a blockchain.
The authors define adirectory, which consists of the most recent Θ(√𝑛/log𝑛) blocks that store information on the
most recent ˜Θ(√𝑛) peers. Each of these associated directory peers is responsible for maintaining information on a
subset of the committees. This directory allows recovery even in the event that a constant fraction of the committees
fail (i.e., lost their respective good majority). Furthermore, the construction can quickly recover from failures where
a large fraction of directory peers and committees fail, so long as a large fraction of honest peers can still run
the blockchain protocol, and the process by which new peers join the system is still functional. Additionally, the
authors provide an argument demonstrating that the half-life their system can tolerate is asymptotically optimal up
to logarithmic factors.
Finally, more-recent work by Augustine et al. [7] addresses a P2P setting where up to 𝑛
polylog(𝑛) nodes may be
Byzantine, where𝑛 is the system size, which does not change; that is, the static setting. The approach assumes
that the underlying network is an𝑛-node expander graph of constant degree, and every peer has a constant-factor
approximation to 𝑛. The main goal is to build a robust DHT by creating a virtual hypercube structure on top
of the expander graph. This structure uses groups of size Θ(log 3𝑛), which facilitate Byzantine agreement and
random sampling, in addition to secure routing with poly(log𝑛) latency and communication complexity. Similar
to Guerraoui et al. [57], the membership of each group is formed by using random walks on the expander graph
in order to select peers (nearly) uniformly at random from the system. Shuffling is a familiar ingredient that the
authors employ to maintain the good majority in each group.
3.3 Constructions that Tolerate High Churn
As discussed in Section 1.3, high churn can be viewed as a form of DoS attack. In recent years, several results have
been proposed by the research community aimed at tolerating high churn under adversarial settings.
Zhang et al. [161] argue that many defenses against the eclipse attack have high communication cost. To address
this issue, the authors propose the use of computational puzzles in order for each ID to join the network. While this
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 19
is not the first approach to employ computational puzzles in a P2P system (e.g., Castro et al. [28], Li et al. [94],
Rowaihy et al. [124]), the authors highlight that they have the advantage of not relying on a certification authority,
and that their approach induces little churn. In terms of shortcomings, the authors note that their defense only
imposes a prohibitive cost on the attacker when the DHT is sufficiently large, and that legitimate peers who suffer
intermittent connectivity, may find themselves incurring significant costs to join and rejoin the network.
Anceaume et al. [ 3] propose PeerCube, which is designed to thwart eclipse attacks in a high churn setting.
Peers organize themselves into “clusters” (i.e., groups), which are sets of peers of size𝑂(log𝑛) , and these clusters
form a hypercubic topology. Clusters facilitate key operations, such as storage and retrieval, by using a subset
of their peers known as “core” members. These core members are tightly connected and can employ Byzantine
consensus protocols to overcome malicious interference. By not using the entire membership of a cluster, the
authors argue that the impact of churn is reduced. Similar to Guerraoui et al. [ 57], clusters must split or merge
whenever they become to large or small. The authors claim that each cluster can maintain a good majority by using
a randomized join procedure, and ultimately they argue that routing in Peercube between any two peers requires
𝑂(log𝑛) messages and𝑂(log𝑛) hops. PeerSim [76] simulations indicate that Peercube can indeed mitigate attacks;
for example, with 15% of the system being malicious, 98% of requests are successful.
Going beyond just detecting the presence of an attack, the approach by Xie and Zhu [ 153] also identifies
malicious nodes. Two random sampling approaches are used to determine whether an attack is underway; if any
peer advertises the loss of a broadcast message, then this indicates malicious behavior. A key assumption is that
there is a special entity, known as a group controller, that has information on the network topology and can sample
peers. Peers are diagnosed as malicious via the use of a reputation system. Backtracking from leaf peer with missing
messages towards the root, the authors define a method for calculating a “suspicion” value per peer. Simulation
results indicate that the methods work well, achieving a false positive rate of less than 2%, even in highly dynamic
settings where message loss may also occur due to network churn.
Augustine et al. [8] tackle Byzantine agreement in highly dynamic networks with frequent peer and link changes
due to adversarial churn, modeled as a regular constant-degree expander graph (recall the notion of expansion in
Section 2.1). They propose two randomized algorithms to achieve almost-everywhere Byzantine agreement with
high probability despite significant churn and Byzantine nodes. The first handles 𝑂(√𝑛/poly(log𝑛)) churn per
round and a topology-oblivious adversary controlling𝑂(√𝑛/poly(log𝑛)) Byzantine peers. It uses random walks,
where each peer initiates Θ(log𝑛) tokens (containing ID, counter, and 𝑂(log𝑛) bits). Tokens traverse random
neighbors, decrementing the counter until zero. After poly(log𝑛) iterations, all but𝑂(√𝑛/poly(log𝑛)) good nodes
agree on a value from a good node, requiringpoly(log𝑛)bits per round per node.
Their second algorithm tolerates 𝑂(√𝑛/poly(log𝑛)) churn against a topology-aware adversary controlling
𝑂(√𝑛) Byzantine peers. Peers communicate directly using IDs and initially assign values based on adversarial
input. After a fixed number of rounds, each non-faulty peer runs asupport estimationalgorithm to determine how
many peers have a current value of “0” or “1”. If the support for one value dominates by Θ(√𝑛) from𝑛/2, the peers
deterministically update their values in favor of the dominant value. The authors show that after𝑂(log 3𝑛) rounds,
a large imbalance is established with high probability, and all nodes except𝑂(√𝑛) agree on a value. However, here
a polynomial in𝑛number of bits must be transmitted/processed by each node per round.
Continuing on in this model, Augustine et al. [ 9] consider the classic distributed problem of leader election
under Byzantine faults. Specifically, the underlying topology is a sparse, bounded-degree expander graph. The
number of Byzantine nodes is O (𝑛1/2−𝜖 ), for some (small) constant𝜖>0 , and the amount of churn per round is
𝑂(√𝑛/poly(log𝑛), where𝑛is the stable network size.
The intuition for the authors’ randomized algorithm is as follows. The nodes are given the choice randomly
to become a candidate participating in the election with a probability of Θ(log𝑛/√𝑛). Candidate nodes generate
“tickets” to participate in the “leader lottery”. Each ticket is represented as a private random bit string of length
Θ(log𝑛) bits. The faulty nodes can also participate in this “leader lottery”. A store mechanism is implemented
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

20 • Patel et al.
to make sure that the information stays in the network irrespective of the topology changes and high node churn.
The ticket of some honest node𝑢 is stored in ˜Θ(√𝑛) nodes, which can act to verify that this is indeed𝑢’s ticket
(and reject claims by Byzantine nodes). Intuitively, given that the adversary can inflict𝑂(√𝑛/poly(log𝑛) churn per
round,𝑢’s witnesses are safe for poly(log𝑛) rounds. During this time, an almost-everywhere consensus algorithm
is run that allows a (slightly biased) random coin flip to generate the winning ticket over poly(log𝑛) rounds. Then,
in another poly(log𝑛) rounds, a sampling algorithm can be used to verify𝑢’s claim and propagate this almost the
entire set of honest nodes using random walks. Note that if multiple honest node have the same ticket, then the
node with the smallest ID becomes the leader.
3.4 Summary of Results
The following table summarizes the results surveyed in Section 3.
Type of Defense Name(s) Brief Summary
Redundant Routing Li et al. [95] Implemented improvements to Kademila DHT to defend
against eclipse attacks using peer verification and random
searches. This method assumes at least 95% correct peers
and shows strong performance in a 10,000-peer network.
Germanus et al. [52] Explored topology-aware eclipse attacks in structured P2P
systems and proposed heuristics to enhance routing re-
silience. Later work introduced a scalable mitigation strategy
ensuring 90% to 100% lookup success, even with high churn
in large-scale networks.
Heilman et al. [69] Monte Carlo simulations show that eclipse attacks on the
Bitcoin network require a large number of IP addresses.
Potential attackers include botnets, and ten countermeasures
are proposed, three of which were adopted by Bitcoin in
2015.
Rottondi et al. [123] Adding extra peers to nodes in Chord DHT can mitigate
eclipse attacks, with centralized method being the most ef-
fective.
Kapadia and Triandopou-
los [81]
HALO uses redundant routing through Θ(log𝑛) predeces-
sors to tolerate random Byzantine faults. It ensures secure
routing with low failure rates even when up to 25% of peers
are faulty.
Group-Based
Approaches
Saia and Young [128] Quorums of Θ(log𝑛) peers improve communication effi-
ciency in robust DHTs by reducing complexity to Θ(log𝑛)
while handling Byzantine faults. Binning functions and ma-
jority agreement ensure reliable message transmission and
secure peer assignments.
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 21
Type of Defense Name(s) Brief Summary
Sen and Freedman [131] The commensal cuckoo rule improves the original rule by
moving only some peers based on group size when a new
peer joins, preventing uneven peer distribution. Simulations
with up to 8000 peers show improved robustness to Byzan-
tine peers in groups of size64.
Saad and Saia [126] An adversary controls(1/4−𝜖)𝑛 nodes, and reliable mul-
tiparty communication (MPC) is achieved using Θ(log𝑛) -
sized groups. The self-healing algorithm reduces message
costs, quarantines malicious nodes upon detection, and
achieves MPC with𝑂(𝑚+𝑛log𝑛) messages, computation,
and𝑂(𝑙)latency.
Knockel et al. [84] Demonstrating that all good peers can maintain communica-
tion with near-optimal cost and latency, rather than comput-
ing a circuit.
Boshrooyeh and Ozkasap
[23]
A security framework for skip graphs that leverages crypto-
graphic signatures to detect and isolate adversarial or misbe-
having peers.
Ismail et al. [72, 73] A heuristic for removing bad peers, in which good peers
test suspected peers and remove them once misbehavior is
sufficiently verified.
Guerraoui et al. [57] A dynamic P2P system tolerating Byzantine adversaries
(<1/3 of peers) adapts to system size changes by splitting or
merging groups of Θ(log𝑛) peers. Using an expander graph
topology, it achieves a secure search with polylogarithmic
latency and message complexity.
Kuhn et al. [88] A dynamic network model ensures functionality under worst-
case churn attacks by dynamically distributing tokens and
aggregating information to adjust network size. It prioritizes
data availability and low overhead during peer reshuffling.
Nambiar and Wright [113] The Salsa DHT organizes peers into groups using IP hash-
based binary trees, enabling efficient and secure lookups.
It ensures 96% search success even with 20% compromised
nodes.
Johansen et al. [79] Fireflies is an intrusion-tolerant overlay using gossip com-
munication, a certificate authority, and hash-based IDs to
ensure Byzantine nodes cannot manipulate their positions. It
uses accusations and updates to stay connected and performs
well up to20%Byzantine nodes.
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

22 • Patel et al.
Type of Defense Name(s) Brief Summary
Augustine et al. [7] A robust DHT is built over a static expander graph, us-
ing Θ(log 3𝑛)-sized committees to tolerate up to 𝑛
polylog(𝑛)
Byzantine nodes. Random walks from committees, and pe-
riodic shuffling maintain good majorities with poly(log𝑛)
overhead.
Aradhya et al. [4] A robust DHT is constructed using Θ(log𝑛) -sized commit-
tees linked in a hypercubic topology, addressing a dynamic
setting where joins and departures follow a half-life con-
straint. A blockchain-based directory of the most recent
Θ(√𝑛/log𝑛) blocks enables recovery from committee fail-
ures while preserving robustness under near-optimal half-life
conditions.
Constructions that
Tolerate High Churn
Zhang et al. [161] Message-specific computational puzzles reduce eclipse at-
tacks by requiring IDs to solve puzzles before joining, elimi-
nating the need for certification authorities. This approach
is effective only in large DHTs and can be costly for peers
with unstable connections.
Anceaume et al. [3] PeerCube resists eclipse attacks in high churn by organizing
peers into hypercubic clusters of size𝑂(log𝑛) , using Byzan-
tine consensus among core members for secure operations.
Simulations show 98% success even with 15% malicious
peers.
Kuhn et. al [88] The DHT construction handles a few adversarial peer ad-
ditions and deletions, ensuring routing in 𝑂(log𝑛) hops.
It maintains a group size of Θ(log𝑛) while each peer
has 𝑂(log 2𝑛) degree. Adapting a hypercube and split-
ting/merging groups yields well-distributed membership.
Xie and Zhu [153] Malicious nodes in a tree-structured overlay are identified
using random sampling and a group controller. Tracing mes-
sage loss from leaves to the root assigns suspicion values,
achieving under 2% false positive even in dynamic condi-
tions.
Augustine et al. [8] Two randomized algorithms achieve Byzantine agreement
in dynamic networks under adversarial churn. The first one
tolerates𝑂
 √𝑛
poly(log𝑛)

churn and a topology-oblivious ad-
versary controlling the same number of Byzantine peers,
while the second algorithm tolerates 𝑂
 √𝑛
poly(log𝑛)

churn
with an adversary aware of the network topology and con-
trolling𝑂(√𝑛) Byzantine peers, where𝑛 is the network size.
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 23
Type of Defense Name(s) Brief Summary
Augustine et al. [9] Consider the classic distributed problem of leader election
under Byzantine faults in sparse, bounded-degree expander
graphs with up to O (𝑛1/2−𝜖 ) Byzantine nodes. The system
tolerates churn of𝑂(√𝑛/poly((log𝑛)) per round, where𝑛
is the stable network size.
3.5 Discussion and Future Work
The defense mechanisms surveyed in Sections 3.1 to 3.3 address redundant routing, group-based approaches,
and solutions in high-churn settings. Each method relies on distinct model assumptions, balancing efficiency and
security differently, as we now discuss.
Redundant routing is very helpful against the eclipse and storage attacks. Mechanisms such as auxiliary node lists
in Chord [123] or predecessor-based verification in HALO [81], enhance resilience by diversifying paths. However,
while these methods improve robustness, they can increase communication overhead and latency. For example,
Kapadia and Triandopoulo [ 81] demonstrate that HALO’s reliance on redundant predecessors ensures secure
routing, even with 25% Byzantine peers, but this comes at the cost of logarithmic message complexity. Similarly, Li
et al. [95] show that Kademlia modifications reduce eclipse vulnerability, but require additional verification steps,
which may slow down lookups. A key challenge lies in optimizing redundancy to balance security guarantees with
performance.
Group-based defenses (e.g., [13, 128]), leverage collective decision-making to limit the influence of Byzantine
nodes. These methods are effective at preserving an honest majority within each group; however, their scalability
remains a concern. For instance, Guerraoui et al. [57] achieve secure lookup in polylogarithmic time using groups
of size𝑂(log𝑛) , but dynamic group splitting/merging introduces significant overhead; for example, splitting incurs
𝑂(log 4𝑛) rounds of communication between involved peers. Another example is the cuckoo rule proposed by
Awerbuch and Scheideler [12–15], along with the commensal cuckoo rule by Sen and Freedman [ 131], which
gives strong guarantees on maintaining a good majority in every group, but requires periodic shuffling even in the
absence of any bad peers.
Under high churn, we sometimes see a group-based approach (e.g.,[3, 88]) paired with techniques like resource
burning (e.g., [28, 94, 124, 161]) or random walks on expander graphs ([8, 9]). In practice, these techniques can
be expensive, consuming network resources such as computational power and bandwidth, along with increasing
latency relative to the setting where there are no attacks.
In terms of future work, there are many directions to pursue regarding the above approaches for defending against
attacks on routing. First, are there any benefit to using RB to mitigate routing problems. For example, Castro et al.
[28] consider the idea of a monetary cost to purchase locations in the ID space. RB would appear to be a natural
substitute for money, and the challenges of issuing RB puzzles and verification has been examined by Li et al. [94].
Similarly, perhaps RB may be combined with the use of groups to inflict a cost on an adversary who seeks to cause
many joins and departure events. In both cases, it might be worth exploring whether solutions exist where the RB
cost to good peers grows slowly with the cost to the Byzantine adversary, thus providing a resource-competitive
result [62].
The notion of shuffling (e.g., the cuckoo rule and its variants) for group-based defenses can yield strong security
guarantees. However, shuffling can be needlessly expensive in cases where there is no attack or the attack is
minimal. For example, even if only good peers are joining a DHT, the cuckoo rule still requires a (small) amount of
IDs be relocated. In practice, this means terminating and establishing new communication links between machines,
which incurs a latency and state cost. Is there a way to reduce such costs in order to avoid this overhead in the
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

24 • Patel et al.
absence of an aggressive attack? One approach would be to have a “light-weight” mechanism for detecting whether
an attack is underway and then responding with a more “heavy-weight” shuffling operation.
Aradhya et al. [4] demonstrate that incorporating blockchain technology into the design of a DHT can enhance
resilience against severe failures, including Sybil attacks. It would be valuable to investigate additional advantages
of blockchain integration, particularly in reputation systems, where peers could efficiently audit the actions of
others to ensure accuracy and trustworthiness.
Along similar lines, the use of ML in diagnosing bad peers may lower the cost of failed lookups. Performance
would then be parameterized by the accuracy of an ML black box (see [ 106]); for example, this has been done
recently for denial-of-service attacks in the traditional client-server model [31]. Here, route selection could be based
on feedback from this black box, allowing us to lower message complexity by reducing the amount of replication
typically used in secure DHT construction (e.g., groups or redundant routes).
Another promising avenue for future research is the application of agentic artificial intelligence (AI) to enhance
network security and resilience. Agentic AI is characterized by autonomous goal-directed behavior, persistent
memory, and adaptive decision-making. It offers the potential to operate as a decentralized enforcement and
monitoring layer within P2P networks. These agents might be employed to observe node behavior over time,
detect deviations from protocol norms, and autonomously respond to suspected malicious activity. Additionally,
in response to adversarial conditions, agentic AI could facilitate distributed coordination among nodes to share
reputational data and adapt routing strategies. It is an open question as to whether such an approach would provide
robust security guarantees similar to the results surveyed here.
4 Final Thoughts
This survey reviews the landscape of security threats in P2P networks and discusses the defense strategies proposed
in the recent literature. We focused on two broad classes of attacks: Sybil attacks, and attacks on routing. We
observe from the literature that the lack of a central authority, and an inability to verify identities, poses common
challenges that are dealt with in a variety of ways. In the context of the Sybil attack, we examined a range of
countermeasures, including graph-structured defenses, ML-based classifiers, and resource-burning techniques. For
attacks on routing, we explored defenses based on redundant routing, group-based approaches, and solutions that
can tolerate high churn.
We feel that many interesting challenges remain. In our discussion sections, we have attempted to highlight
promising avenues for future work. We also note that, while the surveyed papers each focus on a narrow security
issue, we believe that in many cases, these techniques may be deployed in tandem. For example, ML approaches
might complement group-based techniques, and yield stronger resilience than using either as a standalone solution.
Our survey, together with Urdaneta et al. [ 145], highlights the ongoing challenges in designing secure P2P
systems. We anticipate sustained research activity in this field, and we eagerly await a future survey paper within
another decade.
Acknowledgments
This work is supported by NSF award CNS-2210300.
References
[1] Mohiuddin Ahmed, Abdun Naser Mahmood, and Jiankun Hu. 2016. A survey of network anomaly detection techniques.J. Netw. Comput.
Appl.60, C (Jan. 2016), 19–31. doi:10.1016/j.jnca.2015.11.016
[2] Lorenzo Alvisi, Allen Clement, Alessandro Epasto, Silvio Lattanzi, and Alessandro Panconesi. 2013. Sok: The evolution of sybil defense
via social networks. In2013 IEEE symposium on security and privacy. 382–396.
[3] Emmanuelle Anceaume, Romaric Ludinard, Aina Ravoaja, and F Brasileiro. 2008. Peercube: A hypercube-based p2p overlay robust
against collusion and churn. InProceedings of the 2008 Second IEEE International Conference on Self-Adaptive and Self-Organizing
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 25
Systems. IEEE, 15–24.
[4] Vijeth Aradhya, Seth Gilbert, and Aquinas Hobor. 2023. Robust Overlays Meet Blockchains: On Handling High Churn and Catastrophic
Failures. InProceedings of the 25th International Symposium Stabilization, Safety, and Security of Distributed Systems (SSS). Springer-
Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 191–206. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-44274-2_15
[5] Lars Arge, David Eppstein, and Michael T. Goodrich. 2005. Skip-webs: efficient distributed data structures for multi-dimensional data
sets. InProceedings of the Twenty-Fourth Annual ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing(Las Vegas, NV , USA)
(PODC ’05). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY , USA, 69–76. doi:10.1145/1073814.1073827
[6] James Aspnes and Gauri Shah. 2007. Skip graphs.ACM Trans. Algorithms3, 4 (Nov. 2007), 37–es. doi:10.1145/1290672.1290674
[7] John Augustine, Soumyottam Chatterjee, and Gopal Pandurangan. 2022. A Fully-Distributed Scalable Peer-to-Peer Protocol for
Byzantine-Resilient Distributed Hash Tables. InProceedings of the 34th ACM Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms and Architectures
(Philadelphia, PA, USA)(SPAA ’22). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY , USA, 87–98. doi:10.1145/3490148.3538588
[8] John Augustine, Gopal Pandurangan, and Peter Robinson. 2013. Fast byzantine agreement in dynamic networks. InProceedings of the
2013 ACM symposium on Principles of distributed computing. 74–83.
[9] John Augustine, Gopal Pandurangan, and Peter Robinson. 2015. Fast byzantine leader election in dynamic networks. InInternational
Symposium on Distributed Computing. Springer, 276–291.
[10] Baruch Awerbuch and Christian Scheideler. 2004. Group Spreading: A Protocol for Provably Secure Distributed Name Service. In
Automata, Languages and Programming, Josep Díaz, Juhani Karhumäki, Arto Lepistö, and Donald Sannella (Eds.). Springer Berlin
Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, 183–195.
[11] Baruch Awerbuch and Christian Scheideler. 2004. The Hyperring: a Low-Congestion Deterministic Data Structure for Distributed
Environments. InProceedings of the15𝑡ℎAnnual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA). 318–327.
[12] Baruch Awerbuch and Christian Scheideler. 2006. Robust Random Number Generation for Peer-to-peer Systems. InProceedings of the
10𝑡ℎInternational Conference On Principles of Distributed Systems (OPODIS). 275–289.
[13] Baruch Awerbuch and Christian Scheideler. 2006. Towards a scalable and robust DHT. InProceedings of the Eighteenth Annual ACM
Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms and Architectures (SPAA). 318–327.
[14] Baruch Awerbuch and Christian Scheideler. 2007. Towards Scalable and Robust Overlay Networks. InProceedings of the6𝑡ℎ International
Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems (IPTPS). n. pag.
[15] Baruch Awerbuch and Christian Scheideler. 2008. Towards a Scalable and Robust DHT.Theory of Computing Systems45 (2008),
234–260.
[16] Henry S Baird, Michael A Moll, and Sui-Yu Wang. 2005. ScatterType: A legible but hard-to-segment CAPTCHA. InProceedings of the
Eighth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR). 935–939.
[17] Marshall Ball, Alon Rosen, Manuel Sabin, and Prashant Nalini Vasudevan. 2018. Proofs of work from worst-case assumptions. In
Proceedings of the Annual International Cryptology Conference (CRYPTO). Springer, 789–819.
[18] Juan Benet and Nicola Greco. 2018. Filecoin: A Decentralized Storage Network.Protocol Labs1 (July 2018), 1–36. https:
//filecoin.io/filecoin.pdf
[19] Fabricio Benevenuto, Gabriel Magno, Tiago Rodrigues, and Virgilio Almeida. 2010. Detecting spammers on Twitter. InProceedings of
the Collaboration, electronic messaging, anti-abuse and spam conference (CEAS), V ol. 6. 12.
[20] Leyla Bilge, Thorsten Strufe, Davide Balzarotti, and Engin Kirda. 2009. All your contacts are belong to us: automated identity theft
attacks on social networks. InProceedings of the 18th International Conference on World Wide Web (WWW). Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY , USA, 551–560. doi:10.1145/1526709.1526784
[21] Vincent D Blondel, Jean-Loup Guillaume, Renaud Lambiotte, and Etienne Lefebvre. 2008. Fast unfolding of communities in large
networks.Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment2008, 10 (Oct. 2008), P10008. doi:10.1088/1742-5468/2008/10/
p10008
[22] Yazan Boshmaf, Ildar Muslukhov, Konstantin Beznosov, and Matei Ripeanu. 2013. Design and analysis of a social botnet.Computer
Networks57, 2 (2013), 556–578.
[23] S. T. Boshrooyeh and O. Ozkasap. 2017. Guard: Secure routing in skip graph. InProceedings of the 2017 IFIP Networking Conference
(IFIP Networking) and Workshops. 1–2. doi:10.23919/IFIPNetworking.2017.8264893
[24] Anna L Buczak and Erhan Guven. 2015. A survey of data mining and machine learning methods for cyber security intrusion detection.
IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials18, 2 (2015), 1153–1176.
[25] Lin Cai and Roberto Rojas-Cessa. 2014. Containing sybil attacks on trust management schemes for peer-to-peer networks. In2014 IEEE
International Conference on Communications (ICC). IEEE, 841–846.
[26] Qiang Cao, Michael Sirivianos, Xiaowei Yang, and Tiago Pregueiro. 2012. Aiding the detection of fake accounts in large scale
social online services. InProceedings of the Presented as part of the 9th {USENIX} Symposium on Networked Systems Design and
Implementation ({NSDI}12). 197–210.
[27] Fran Casino, Thomas Dasaklis, and Constantinos Patsakis. 2018. A systematic literature review of blockchain-based applications: Current
status, classification and open issues.Telematics and Informatics(11 2018). doi:10.1016/j.tele.2018.11.006
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

26 • Patel et al.
[28] Miguel Castro, Peter Druschel, Ayalvadi Ganesh, Antony Rowstron, and Dan S. Wallach. 2002. Secure Routing for Structured Peer-
to-Peer Overlay Networks. InProceedings of the 5𝑡ℎ Usenix Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI).
299–314.
[29] Miguel Castro and Barbara Liskov. 2001. Byzantine Fault Tolerance Can Be Fast. InProceedings of the International Conference on
Dependable Systems and Networks. 513–518.
[30] Miguel Castro and Barbara Liskov. 2002. Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance and Proactive Recovery.ACM Transactions on Computer
Systems20(4) (2002), 398–461.
[31] Trisha Chakraborty, Abir Islam, Valerie King, Daniel Rayborn, Jared Saia, and Maxwell Young. 2025. Bankrupting DoS Attackers.
InProceedings of the 32nd International Colloquium On Structural Information and Communication Complexity (SIROCCO). no
pagination.
[32] Varun Chandola, Arindam Banerjee, and Vipin Kumar. 2009. Anomaly detection: A survey.ACM computing surveys (CSUR)41, 3
(2009), 1–58.
[33] Yatin Chawathe, Sylvia Ratnasamy, Lee Breslau, Nick Lanham, and Scott Shenker. 2003. Making gnutella-like p2p systems scalable. In
Proceedings of the 2003 conference on Applications, technologies, architectures, and protocols for computer communications. 407–418.
[34] Nicolas Christin, Andreas S Weigend, and John Chuang. 2005. Content availability, pollution and poisoning in file sharing peer-to-peer
networks. InProceedings of the 6th ACM conference on Electronic commerce. 68–77.
[35] Ian Clarke, Oskar Sandberg, Brandon Wiley, and Theodore W Hong. 2001. Freenet: A distributed anonymous information storage and
retrieval system. InProceedings of the Designing privacy enhancing technologies: international workshop on design issues in anonymity
and unobservability Berkeley, CA, USA, July 25–26, 2000 Proceedings. Springer, 46–66.
[36] Peter Clifford. 1990. Markov random fields in statistics.Disorder in physical systems: A volume in honour of John M. Hammersley
(1990), 19–32.
[37] Bram Cohen. 2003. Incentives build robustness in BitTorrent. InProceedings of the Workshop on Economics of Peer-to-Peer systems,
V ol. 6. Berkeley, CA, USA, 68–72.
[38] C. Cramer and T. Fuhrmann. 2005. Proximity neighbor selection for a DHT in wireless multi-hop networks. InProceedings of the Fifth
IEEE International Conference on Peer-to-Peer Computing (P2P). 3–10.
[39] Kyle Croman, Christian Decker, Ittay Eyal, Adem Efe Gencer, Ari Juels, Ahmed Kosba, Andrew Miller, Prateek Saxena, Elaine Shi,
Emin Gün Sirer, et al . 2016. On scaling decentralized blockchains. InProceedings of the International Conference on Financial
Cryptography and Data Security. Springer, 106–125.
[40] Weverton Luis Da Costa Cordeiro, FláVio Roberto Santos, Gustavo Huff Mauch, Marinho Pilla Barcelos, and Luciano Paschoal Gaspary.
2012. Identity management based on adaptive puzzles to protect P2P systems from Sybil attacks.Comput. Netw.56, 11 (July 2012),
2569–2589. doi:10.1016/j.comnet.2012.03.026
[41] Ernesto Damiani, De Capitani di Vimercati, Stefano Paraboschi, Pierangela Samarati, and Fabio Violante. 2002. A reputation-based
approach for choosing reliable resources in peer-to-peer networks. InProceedings of the 9th ACM conference on Computer and
communications security. 207–216.
[42] George Danezis and Prateek Mittal. 2009. Sybilinfer: Detecting sybil nodes using social networks. InProceedings of NDSS, V ol. 9. San
Diego, CA, 1–15.
[43] John R Douceur. 2002. The sybil attack. InProceedings of International workshop on peer-to-peer systems. Springer, 251–260.
[44] Cynthia Dwork, Andrew Goldberg, and Moni Naor. 2003. On memory-bound functions for fighting spam. InProceedings of the Annual
International Cryptology Conference. Springer, 426–444.
[45] Cynthia Dwork and Moni Naor. 1993. Pricing via Processing or Combatting Junk Mail. InProceedings of the 12𝑡ℎ Annual International
Cryptology Conference on Advances in Cryptology. 139–147.
[46] Ethereum. 2016. Ethereum: Blockchain App. Program. https://www.ethereum.org/.
[47] Pierre Fraigniaud and Philippe Gauron. 2006. D2B: A De Bruijn Based Content-addressable Network.Theoretical Computer Science
355, 1 (April 2006), 65–79.
[48] Satoshi Fujita. 2011. Proximity-Aware DHT for Efficient Lookup Service in Peer-to-Peer Applications. InProceedings of the 14th IEEE
International Conference on Computational Science and Engineering. 464–470.
[49] Peng Gao, Neil Gong, Sanjeev Kulkarni, Kurt Thomas, and Prateek Mittal. 2015. Sybilframe: A defense-in-depth framework for
structure-based sybil detection.arXiv preprint arXiv:1503.02985(03 2015).
[50] Peng Gao, Binghui Wang, Neil Zhenqiang Gong, Sanjeev R. Kulkarni, Kurt Thomas, and Prateek Mittal. 2018. SYBILFUSE:
Combining Local Attributes with Global Structure to Perform Robust Sybil Detection. InProceedings of the 2018 IEEE Conference on
Communications and Network Security (CNS). 1–9. doi:10.1109/CNS.2018.8433147
[51] Daniel Germanus, Hatem Ismail, and Neeraj Suri. 2015. Pass: an address space slicing framework for p2p eclipse attack mitigation. In
Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE 34th Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems (SRDS). IEEE, 74–83.
[52] Daniel Germanus, Robert Langenberg, Abdelmajid Khelil, and Neeraj Suri. 2012. Susceptibility analysis of structured p2p systems to
localized eclipse attacks. InProceedings of the 2012 IEEE 31st Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems. IEEE, 11–20.
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 27
[53] Daniel Germanus, Stefanie Roos, Thorsten Strufe, and Neeraj Suri. 2014. Mitigating eclipse attacks in peer-to-peer networks. In
Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE Conference on Communications and Network Security. IEEE, 400–408.
[54] Neil Zhenqiang Gong, Mario Frank, and Prateek Mittal. 2014. Sybilbelief: A semi-supervised learning approach for structure-based sybil
detection.IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security9, 6 (2014), 976–987.
[55] Michael T. Goodrich, Michael J. Nelson, and Jonathan Z. Sun. 2006. The rainbow skip graph: a fault-tolerant constant-degree distributed
data structure. InProceedings of the Seventeenth Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithm (SODA). 384–393.
[56] Raúl Gracia-Tinedo, Pedro García-López, and Marc Sánchez-Artigas. 2012. Sophia: A local trust system to secure key-based routing in
non-deterministic DHTs.J. Parallel and Distrib. Comput.72, 12 (2012), 1696–1712.
[57] Rachid Guerraoui, Florian Huc, and Anne-Marie Kermarrec. 2013. Highly dynamic distributed computing with byzantine failures. In
Proceedings of the 2013 ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC). 176–183.
[58] Christoph U. Günther and Krzysztof Pietrzak. 2025. Putting Sybils on a Diet: Securing Distributed Hash Tables using Proofs of Space.
Workshop on Cryptographic Tools for Blockchains.
[59] Huaqun Guo and Xingjie Yu. 2022. A survey on blockchain technology and its security.Blockchain: research and applications3, 2
(2022), 100067.
[60] Diksha Gupta, Jared Saia, and Maxwell Young. 2018. Proof of work without all the work. InProceedings of the 19th International
Conference on Distributed Computing and Networking. 1–10.
[61] Diksha Gupta, Jared Saia, and Maxwell Young. 2019. Peace through superior puzzling: An asymmetric sybil defense. InProceedings of
the 2019 IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS). IEEE, 1083–1094.
[62] Diksha Gupta, Jared Saia, and Maxwell Young. 2020. Resource burning for permissionless systems. InProceedings of the International
Colloquium on Structural Information and Communication Complexity. Springer, 19–44.
[63] Diksha Gupta, Jared Saia, and Maxwell Young. 2023. Bankrupting Sybil despite churn.J. Comput. System Sci.135 (2023), 89–124.
[64] Kandi Haribabu, Dushyant Arora, Bhavik Kothari, and Chittaranjan Hota. 2010. Detecting sybils in peer-to-peer overlays using neural
networks and CAPTCHAs. In2010 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Communication Networks. IEEE,
154–161.
[65] Nicholar Harvey, Michael Jones, Stefan Saroiu, Marvin Theimer, and Alec Wolman. 2003. SkipNet: A Scalable Overlay Network with
Practical Locality Properties. InProceedings of the Fourth USENIX Symposium on Internet Technologies and Systems (USITS).
[66] Nicholas J. A. Harvey and J. Ian Munro. 2004. Deterministic SkipNet.Inform. Process. Lett.90(4) (2004), 205–208.
[67] Yahya Hassanzadeh-Nazarabadi, Sanaz Taheri-Boshrooyeh, Safa Otoum, Seyhan Ucar, and Öznur Özkasap. 2021. DHT-based communi-
cations survey: architectures and use cases.arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.10787(2021).
[68] Henner Heck, Olga Kieselmann, and Arno Wacker. 2017. Evaluating connection resilience for the overlay network Kademlia. In
Proceedings of the 37th IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS). IEEE, 2581–2584.
[69] Ethan Heilman, Alison Kendler, Aviv Zohar, and Sharon Goldberg. 2015. Eclipse attacks on bitcoin’s peer-to-peer network. In
Proceedings of the 24th{USENIX}Security Symposium ({USENIX}Security 15). 129–144.
[70] Kevin Hoffman, David Zage, and Cristina Nita-Rotaru. 2009. A survey of attack and defense techniques for reputation systems.ACM
Computing Surveys (CSUR)42, 1 (2009), 1–31.
[71] Peter Jan Honigsberg. 2001. The evolution and revolution of Napster.University of San Francisco Law Review36 (2001), 473.
[72] H. Ismail, D. Germanus, and N. Suri. 2016. Malicious peers eviction for P2P overlays. InProceedings of the 2016 IEEE Conference on
Communications and Network Security (CNS). 216–224.
[73] Hatem Ismail, Daniel Germanus, and Neeraj Suri. 2017. P2P routing table poisoning: A quorum-based sanitizing approach.Computers
& Security65 (2017), 283–299.
[74] H.V . Jagadish, Beng Chin Ooi, and Quang Hieu Vu. 2005. BATON: A Balanced Tree Structure for Peer-to-Peer Networks. InProceedings
of the31𝑠𝑡 International conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB). 661–672.
[75] Mercy O. Jaiyeola, Kyle Patron, Jared Saia, Maxwell Young, and Qian M. Zhou. 2018. Tiny Groups Tackle Byzantine Adversaries. In
Proceedings of the IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium, IPDPS. 1030–1039.
[76] Márk Jelasity, Alberto Montresor, Gian Paolo Jesi, and Spyros V oulgaris. [n. d.]. The Peersim Simulator.http://peersim.sf.net.
[77] C. Jennings, B. Lowekamp, E. Rescorla, S. Baset, and H. Schulzrinne. 2014. RFC 6940: REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD)
Base Protocol. (2014).
[78] Gordhan Jethava and Udai Pratap Rao. 2022. User behavior-based and graph-based hybrid approach for detection of Sybil Attack in
online social networks.Computers and Electrical Engineering99 (2022), 107753. doi:10.1016/j.compeleceng.2022.107753
[79] Håvard Johansen, André Allavena, and Robbert Van Renesse. 2006. Fireflies: scalable support for intrusion-tolerant network overlays.
ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems Review40, 4 (2006), 3–13.
[80] M Frans Kaashoek and David R Karger. 2003. Koorde: A simple degree-optimal distributed hash table. InProceedings of the Peer-to-Peer
Systems II: Second International Workshop, IPTPS 2003, Berkeley, CA, USA, February 21-22, 2003. Revised Papers 2. Springer, 98–107.
[81] Apu Kapadia and Nikos Triandopoulos. 2008. Halo: High-Assurance Locate for Distributed Hash Tables.. InProceedings of the NDSS,
V ol. 8. Citeseer, 142.
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

28 • Patel et al.
[82] Valerie King, Scott Lewis, Jared Saia, and Maxwell Young. 2007. Choosing a random peer in chord.Algorithmica49, 2 (2007), 147–169.
[83] Valerie King and Jared Saia. 2004. Choosing a Random Peer. InProceedings of the 23𝑟𝑑 ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed
Computing (PODC). 125–130.
[84] Jeffrey Knockel, George Saad, and Jared Saia. 2013. Self-healing of byzantine faults. InProceedings of the Symposium on Self-Stabilizing
Systems. Springer, 98–112.
[85] Michael Kohnen. 2012. Analysis and optimization of routing trust values in a Kademlia-based Distributed Hash Table in a malicious
environment. InProceedings of the 2012 2nd Baltic Congress on Future Internet Communications. IEEE, 252–259.
[86] Michael Kohnen. 2012. Applying trust and reputation mechanisms to a Kademlia-based Distributed Hash Table. InProceedings of the
2012 IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC). IEEE, 1036–1041.
[87] Emmanuel Kowalski. 2019.An introduction to expander graphs. Société mathématique de France Paris.
[88] Fabian Kuhn, Stefan Schmid, and Roger Wattenhofer. 2010. Towards worst-case churn resistant peer-to-peer systems.Distributed
Computing22, 5 (2010), 249–267. Issue 4. doi:10.1007/s00446-010-0099-z
[89] Leslie Lamport, Robert Shostak, and Marshall Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem.ACM Trans. Program. Lang. Syst.4, 3
(July 1982), 382–401. doi:10.1145/357172.357176
[90] Amy N. Langville and Carl D. Meyer. 2004. Deeper Inside PageRank.Internet Mathematics1 (2004), 2004.
[91] Ben Laurie and Richard Clayton. 2004. "Proof-of-Work" Proves Not to Work. InProceedings of the 3𝑟𝑑 Annual Workshop on Economics
and Information Security (WEIS).
[92] Chris Lesniewski-Laas and M. Frans Kaashoek. 2010. Whanau: A Sybil-Proof Distributed Hash Table. InProceedings of the7𝑡ℎ USENIX
Conference on Networked Systems Design and Implementation(San Jose, California)(NSDI’10). 8–8.
[93] Biaoqi Li, Xiaodong Fu, Kun Yue, Li Liu, Lijun Liu, and Yong Feng. 2020. PoW-Based Sybil Attack Resistant Model for P2P Reputation
Systems. InBlockchain and Trustworthy Systems, Zibin Zheng, Hong-Ning Dai, Xiaodong Fu, and Benhui Chen (Eds.). Springer
Singapore, Singapore, 166–177.
[94] Frank Li, Prateek Mittal, Matthew Caesar, and Nikita Borisov. 2012. SybilControl: Practical Sybil defense with computational puzzles.
InProceedings of the seventh ACM workshop on Scalable trusted computing. 67–78.
[95] Qiang Li, Jie Yu, and Zhoujun Li. 2014. An Enhanced Kad Protocol Resistant to Eclipse Attacks. InProceedings of the 2014 9th IEEE
International Conference on Networking, Architecture, and Storage. 83–87. doi:10.1109/NAS.2014.19
[96] Jian Liang and Rakesh Kumar. 2005. Pollution in P2P file sharing systems. InProceedings of the International Conference on Computer
Communications (INFOCOM).
[97] Jian Liang, Rakesh Kumar, and Keith W Ross. 2006. The FastTrack overlay: A measurement study.Computer Networks50, 6 (2006),
842–858.
[98] Jian Liang, Naoum Naoumov, and Keith W. Ross. 2006. The Index Poisoning Attack in P2P File Sharing Systems. InProceedings of the
INFOCOM. 1–12.
[99] Debin Liu and L. Jean Camp. 2006. Proof of Work Can Work. InProceedings of the 5𝑡ℎ Workshop on the Economics of Information
Security (WEIS).
[100] Yaqiong Liu, Weilian Xue, Keqiu Li, Zhongxian Chi, Geyong Min, and Wenyu Qu. 2010. DHTrust: A robust and distributed reputation
system for trusted peer-to-peer networks. InProceedings of the 2010 IEEE Global Telecommunications Conference GLOBECOM 2010.
IEEE, 1–6.
[101] Eng Keong Lua, J. Crowcroft, M. Pias, R. Sharma, and S. Lim. 2005. A survey and comparison of peer-to-peer overlay network schemes.
IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials7, 2 (2005), 72–93. doi:10.1109/COMST.2005.1610546
[102] Apostolos Malatras. 2015. State-of-the-art survey on P2P overlay networks in pervasive computing environments.Journal of Network
and Computer Applications55 (2015), 1–23. doi:10.1016/j.jnca.2015.04.014
[103] Dahlia Malkhi, Moni Naor, and David Ratajczak. 2002. Viceroy: A scalable and dynamic emulation of the butterfly. InProceedings of
the twenty-first annual symposium on Principles of distributed computing. 183–192.
[104] Mohammad Hossein Manshaei, Quanyan Zhu, Tansu Alpcan, Tamer Bac¸ sar, and Jean-Pierre Hubaux. 2013. Game theory meets network
security and privacy.Comput. Surveys45, 3, Article 25 (July 2013), 39 pages. doi:10.1145/2480741.2480742
[105] Petar Maymounkov and David Mazières. 2002. Kademlia: A Peer-to-peer Information System Based on the XOR Metric. InProceedings
of Peer-to-Peer Systems, V ol. 2429. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, 53–65. doi:10.1007/3-540-45748-8_5
[106] Michael Mitzenmacher and Sergei Vassilvitskii. 2022. Algorithms with predictions.Commun. ACM65, 7 (June 2022), 33–35.
[107] Aziz Mohaisen and Scott Hollenbeck. 2014. Improving social network-based sybil defenses by rewiring and augmenting social graphs.
InProceedings of the 4th International Workshop Information on Security Applications (WISA). Springer, 65–80.
[108] Ahmed Afif Monrat, Olov Schelén, and Karl Andersson. 2019. A survey of blockchain from the perspectives of applications, challenges,
and opportunities.IEEE Access7 (2019), 117134–117151.
[109] Mohammad Moradi and MohammadReza Keyvanpour. 2015. CAPTCHA and its alternatives: A review.Security and Communication
Networks8, 12 (2015), 2135–2156.
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

A Survey of Recent Advancements in Secure Peer-to-Peer Networks • 29
[110] Tal Moran and Ilan Orlov. 2019. Simple proofs of space-time and rational proofs of storage. InAnnual International Cryptology
Conference. Springer, 381–409.
[111] Kevin P. Murphy, Yair Weiss, and Michael I. Jordan. 1999. Loopy belief propagation for approximate inference: an empirical study. In
Proceedings of the Fifteenth Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence(Stockholm, Sweden)(UAI’99). Morgan Kaufmann
Publishers Inc., San Francisco, CA, USA, 467–475.
[112] Satoshi Nakamoto. 2008. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System. http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf.
[113] Arjun Nambiar and Matthew Wright. 2006. Salsa: a structured approach to large-scale anonymity. InProceedings of the 13th ACM
conference on Computer and communications security. 17–26.
[114] Till Neudecker. 2017. Bitcoin Cash (BCH) Sybil Nodes on the Bitcoin Peer-to-Peer Network. http://dsn.tm.kit.edu/publications/files/
332/bch_sybil.pdf.
[115] The Risks Digest: Forum on Risks to the Public in Computers and Related Systems. 1993. V olume 15, Issue 27, Tuesday 17, November
1993. http://catless.ncl.ac.uk/Risks/15.27.html#subj1.10. Forum messages concerning L. Detweiler’s claims of pseudospoofing.
[116] Gopal Pandurangan, Peter Robinson, and Amitabh Trehan. 2016. DEX: self-healing expanders.Distributed Computing29, 3 (2016),
163–185.
[117] Marshall C. Pease, Robert E. Shostak, and Leslie Lamport. 1980. Reaching Agreement in the Presence of Faults.J. ACM27(2) (1980),
228–234.
[118] B Pourebrahimi, K Bertels, and S Vassiliadis. 2005. A survey of peer-to-peer networks. InProceedings of the 16th annual workshop on
Circuits, Systems and Signal Processing. 570–577.
[119] Bernd Prünster, Alexander Marsalek, and Thomas Zefferer. 2022. Total Eclipse of the Heart - Disrupting the InterPlanetary File System.
InProceedings of the 31st USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX), Kevin R. B. Butler and Kurt Thomas (Eds.). 3735–3752.
[120] William Pugh. 1990. Skip lists: a probabilistic alternative to balanced trees.Commun. ACM33, 6 (1990), 668–676.
[121] Sylvia Ratnasamy, Paul Francis, Mark Handley, Richard Karp, and Scott Shenker. 2001. A scalable content-addressable network. In
Proceedings of the 2001 conference on Applications, technologies, architectures, and protocols for computer communications. 161–172.
[122] Matei Ripeanu, Adriana Iamnitchi, Ian Foster, and Anne Rogers. 2010. In search of simplicity: a self-organizing group communication
overlay.Concurrency and Computation: Practice and Experience22, 7 (2010), 788–815.
[123] Cristina Rottondi, Alessandro Panzeri, Constantin Yagne, and Giacomo Verticale. 2014. Mitigation of the eclipse attack in chord overlays.
Procedia Computer Science32 (2014), 1115–1120.
[124] H. Rowaihy, W. Enck, P. McDaniel, and T. La Porta. 2007. Limiting Sybil Attacks in Structured P2P Networks. InProceedings of the
26th IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM). 2596–2600.
[125] Antony Rowstron and Peter Druschel. 2001. Pastry: Scalable, decentralized object location, and routing for large-scale peer-to-peer
systems. InProceedings of the Middleware 2001: IFIP/ACM International Conference on Distributed Systems Platforms Heidelberg,
Germany, November 12–16, 2001 Proceedings 2. Springer, 329–350.
[126] George Saad and Jared Saia. 2014. Self-Healing Computation. InProceedings of the International Symposium on Stabilization, Safety,
and Security of Distributed Systems (SSS). 195–210.
[127] George Saad and Jared Saia. 2017. A theoretical and empirical evaluation of an algorithm for self-healing computation.Distributed
Computing30, 6 (2017), 391–412.
[128] Jared Saia and Maxwell Young. 2008. Reducing communication costs in robust peer-to-peer networks.Inform. Process. Lett.106, 4
(2008), 152–158.
[129] Stefan Saroiu, Krishna P Gummadi, and Steven D Gribble. 2003. Measuring and analyzing the characteristics of Napster and Gnutella
hosts.Multimedia systems9, 2 (2003), 170–184.
[130] Christian Scheideler and Stefan Schmid. 2009. A distributed and oblivious heap. InProceedings of the International Colloquium on
Automata, Languages, and Programming. Springer, 571–582.
[131] Siddhartha Sen and Michael J Freedman. 2012. Commensal cuckoo: Secure group partitioning for large-scale services.ACM SIGOPS
Operating Systems Review46, 1 (2012), 33–39.
[132] Scott Shane and Mike Isaac. 2017. Facebook says it’s policing fake accounts. But they’re still easy to spot.New York Times3 (2017).
[133] Kamran Shaukat, Suhuai Luo, Vijay Varadharajan, Ibrahim A Hameed, and Min Xu. 2020. A survey on machine learning techniques for
cyber security in the last decade.IEEE access8 (2020), 222310–222354.
[134] Haiying Shen, Cheng-Zhong Xu, and Guihai Chen. 2004. Cycloid: a constant-degree and lookup-efficient P2P overlay network. In
Proceedings of the 18th International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS), 2004. 26–35.
[135] Ali Shoker. 2017. Sustainable blockchain through proof of exercise. In2017 IEEE 16th International Symposium on Network Computing
and Applications (NCA). IEEE, 1–9.
[136] Atul Singh, Tsuen-Wan Ngan, Peter Druschel, Dan S Wallach, et al. 2006. Eclipse attacks on overlay networks: Threats and defenses.
(2006).
[137] Srivatsan Sridhar, Onur Ascigil, Navin V . Keizer, François Genon, Sébastien Pierre, Yiannis Psaras, Etienne Rivière, and Michal Król.
2024. Content Censorship in the InterPlanetary File System. InProceedings of the 31st Annual Network and Distributed System Security
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.

30 • Patel et al.
Symposium, (NDSS).
[138] Ion Stoica, Robert Morris, David Karger, M Frans Kaashoek, and Hari Balakrishnan. 2001. Chord: A scalable peer-to-peer lookup
service for internet applications.ACM SIGCOMM computer communication review31, 4 (2001), 149–160.
[139] Daniel Stutzbach and Reza Rejaie. 2006. Improving lookup performance over a widely-deployed DHT. InProceedings of the 25TH
IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM). IEEE, 1–12.
[140] Yue Sun, Zhi Yang, and Yafei Dai. 2020. TrustGCN: Enabling Graph Convolutional Network for Robust Sybil Detection in OSNs.
In2020 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining (ASONAM). 1–7. doi:10.1109/
ASONAM49781.2020.9381325
[141] Saar Tochner and Aviv Zohar. 2020. How to Pick Your Friends A Game Theoretic Approach to P2P Overlay Construction. InProceedings
of the 2nd ACM Conference on Advances in Financial Technologies(New York, NY , USA)(AFT ’20). Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY , USA, 37–45. doi:10.1145/3419614.3423252
[142] Nguyen Tran, Jinyang Li, Lakshminarayanan Subramanian, and Sherman S.M. Chow. 2011. Optimal Sybil-resilient node admission
control. InProceedings of IEEE INFOCOM. 3218–3226. doi:10.1109/INFCOM.2011.5935171
[143] Nguyen Tran, Bonan Min, Jinyang Li, and Lakshminarayanan Subramanian. 2009. Sybil-Resilient Online Content V oting. InProceedings
of the 6th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI)(Boston, Massachusetts). 15–28.
[144] Tuenti. 2006. Tuenti: A Private, Invitation-only Social Platform Used by Millions of People to Communicate and Share Every Day.
http://www.tuenti.com. Accessed: 2025-05-27.
[145] Guido Urdaneta, Guillaume Pierre, and Maarten Van Steen. 2011. A survey of DHT security techniques.ACM Computing Surveys
(CSUR)43, 2 (2011), 1–49.
[146] M. Uruena, R. Cuevas, A. Cuevas, and A. Banchs. 2013. A Model to Quantify the Success of a Sybil Attack Targeting RELOAD/Chord
Resources.IEEE Communications Letters17, 2 (February 2013), 428–431.
[147] Bimal Viswanath, Mainack Mondal, Allen Clement, Peter Druschel, Krishna P Gummadi, Alan Mislove, and Ansley Post. 2012.
Exploring the design space of social network-based sybil defenses. InProceedings of the 2012 Fourth International Conference on
Communication Systems and Networks (COMSNETS 2012). IEEE, 1–8.
[148] Luis V on Ahn, Manuel Blum, Nicholas J Hopper, and John Langford. 2003. CAPTCHA: Using hard AI problems for security. In
Proceedings of the International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques. Springer, 294–311.
[149] Michael Walfish, Mythili Vutukuru, Hari Balakrishnan, David Karger, and Scott Shenker. 2006. DDoS Defense by Offense. In
Proceedings of the 2006 Conference on Applications, Technologies, Architectures, and Protocols for Computer Communications
(SIGCOMM). 303–314.
[150] Liang Wang and Jussi Kangasharju. 2012. Real-world sybil attacks in BitTorrent mainline DHT. InProceedings of the 2012 IEEE Global
Communications Conference (GLOBECOM). IEEE, 826–832.
[151] Wei Wei, Fengyuan Xu, Chiu C. Tan, and Qun Li. 2013. SybilDefender: A Defense Mechanism for Sybil Attacks in Large Social
Networks.IEEE Transactions on Parallel & Distributed Systems24, 12 (2013), 2492–2502.
[152] Rita H Wouhaybi and Andrew T Campbell. 2004. Phenix: Supporting resilient low-diameter peer-to-peer topologies. InProceedings of
the IEEE INFOCOM 2004, V ol. 1. IEEE.
[153] Liang Xie and Sencun Zhu. 2008. Message Dropping Attacks in Overlay Networks: Attack Detection and Attacker Identification.ACM
Trans. Inf. Syst. Secur.11, 3, Article 15 (March 2008), 30 pages. doi:10.1145/1341731.1341736
[154] Zhi Yang, Christo Wilson, Xiao Wang, Tingting Gao, Ben Y . Zhao, and Yafei Dai. 2011. Uncovering Social Network Sybils in the Wild.
InProceedings of the 2011 ACM SIGCOMM Conference on Internet Measurement Conference (IMC). 259–268.
[155] Yingying Ma and Fengjun Li. 2012. Detecting review spam: Challenges and opportunities. InProceedings of the 8th International
Conference on Collaborative Computing: Networking, Applications and Worksharing (CollaborateCom). 651–654.
[156] Maxwell Young, Aniket Kate, Ian Goldberg, and Martin Karsten. 2010. Practical Robust Communication in DHTs Tolerating a Byzantine
Adversary. InProceedings of the30 𝑡ℎ IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS). 263–272.
[157] Maxwell Young, Aniket Kate, Ian Goldberg, and Martin Karsten. 2013. Towards Practical Communication in Byzantine-Resistant DHTs.
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking21, 1 (Feb. 2013), 190–203.
[158] Haifeng Yu, Phillip B Gibbons, Michael Kaminsky, and Feng Xiao. 2008. Sybillimit: A near-optimal social network defense against
sybil attacks. InProceedings of the 2008 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (sp 2008). IEEE, 3–17.
[159] Haifeng Yu, Michael Kaminsky, Phillip B Gibbons, and Abraham Flaxman. 2006. Sybilguard: defending against sybil attacks via
social networks. InProceedings of the 2006 Conference on Applications, Technologies, Architectures, and Protocols for Computer
Communications (SIGCOMM). 267–278.
[160] Hao Zhang, Yonggang Wen, Haiyong Xie, and Nenghai Yu. 2013.Distributed Hash Table: Theory, Platforms and Applications. Springer
Publishing Company, Incorporated.
[161] Ren Zhang, Jianyu Zhang, Yu Chen, Nanhao Qin, Bingshuang Liu, and Yuan Zhang. 2011. Making eclipse attacks computationally
infeasible in large-scale DHTs. InProceedings of the 30th IEEE International Performance Computing and Communications Conference.
IEEE, 1–8.
, V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: September 2025.