The
Centralization of a Decentralized Video Platform – A First
Characterization Of PeerTube
Michael Polinski
Northwestern University
USA
michaelp@u.northwestern.edu
Richard Jo
Northwestern University
USA
richardjo2023@u.northwestern.edu
Kevin McAfee
Northwestern University
USA
kevinmcafee2022@u.northwestern.edu
Fabián E. Bustamante
Northwestern University
USA
fabianb@cs.northwestern.edu
ABSTRACT
PeerTube is an open-source video sharing platform built as
a decentralized alternative to YouTube. With software like
Mastodon and Friendica, PeerTube is part of a series of feder-
ated social media platforms built partly in response to grow-
ing concerns about centralized control and ownership of the
incumbent ones. In this paper, we present the first character-
ization of PeerTube, including its underlying infrastructure
and the content being shared on its network. Our findings
reveal concerning trends toward centralization that echo pat-
terns observed in other contexts, exacerbated by the limited
degree of content replication. PeerTube instances are mostly
located in North America and Western Europe, with about
70% hosted in Germany, the USA, and France, and over 50%
hosted on the top 7 ASes. We also find that over 92% of
videos are stored without any redundancy in spite of Peer-
Tube’s native support for video redundancy.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Computer systems organization → Dependable and fault-
tolerant systems and networks ; • Information systems → So-
cial networks ; • Networks → Peer-to-peer protocols; Net-
work performance analysis ;
KEYWORDS
Decentralized web, Federated services, Video distribution,
Characterization
1 INTRODUCTION
Consolidation trends on the Internet – from traﬀic and infras-
tructure to services and users – have raised concerns given
their potential impact on failure resilience, market control
and user privacy [9, 12, 29, 30]. Delivery of standard Inter-
net services, from mail to DNS to web hosting, is consolidat-
ing in a handful of large providers, while web applications
and platforms appear to function as near monopolies. In few
places is this as obvious as in the context of social media [15].
Recently, partially in response to such concerns, a num-
ber of decentralized social media alternatives have surged in
popularity. This includes Mastodon [26], Hubzilla [28], and
PeerTube [23], all of which are part of what is known as the
Fediverse [20], a notable subset of the “decentralized web” .
Federated services are distributed systems designed to op-
erate with a multiple-hub-and-spoke topology, where each
instance (typically running on an independent server) com-
municates with its own registered users (the spokes) as well
as other instances (the hubs). The instances in the federa-
tion have ultimate, independent control over their activity
in the system. Federations are usually open, as is the case
with the Fediverse. No approval is required by default for a
new instance to begin interacting with the federation, but in-
stances can also elect not to interact. To this end, federated
services build on common decentralized protocols. OAuth [4]
authorization, ActivityPub [1] and WebTorrent [8] are a few
such protocols. Depending on the nature of the service, some
instances offer open registration to users.
Such systems can offer a number of advantages, from en-
hancing user privacy and making data ownership more trans-
parent to improving service resilience. The expectation is
that federated alternatives to centralized services can in-
crease user privacy by avoiding having a single data silo
while bolstering resilience to different types of faults and
attacks [13, 33, 37, 40],
There has been recent interest from the research com-
munity in characterizing federated services, exploring their
potential and real benefits as well as their inherent chal-
lenges [10, 14, 18, 27, 34, 39]. Some of these recent stud-
ies have shown, surprisingly, a higher level of centralization
than expected.
In this paper, we present the first characterization of Peer-
Tube, a federated video sharing service, with a focus on
(de)centralization. PeerTube is a distributed video sharing
platform offered as an alternative to centralized services such
as YouTube and Vimeo. As part of the Fediverse, PeerTube
uses the ActivityPub [1] decentralized social networking pro-
tocol to federate with other instances as well as any other
ActivityPub-compatible servers, like Mastodon servers.
While undoubtedly part of the decentralized web, Peer-
Tube’s intended function – i.e., long-form video sharing –
translates into significantly different system design with dif-
ferent use models and sharing patterns than ecosystems fo-
cused on microblogging (like Mastodon [34]) or other content.
ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review Volume 54 Issue 4, October 2024
26

F
or instance, since videos occupy vastly more storage space
than text-based content, PeerTube instances cannot simply
replicate the videos of the channels or accounts their users
subscribe to. Instead, PeerTube allows instance administra-
tors to configure the “redundancy” policy – controlling the
instance’s replication of videos published by users on other
instances. We present a brief introduction to PeerTube in
Section 2.
Our multimodal characterization of PeerTube builds on
two key datasets: (𝑖) instance hostnames and configuration
objects, and (𝑖𝑖) video and creator metadata. These were
gathered while crawling the network of PeerTube instances.
Section 3 describes our measurement approach.
We use the data to characterize the infrastructure under-
lying the PeerTube network (§4) and the hosted content (§5).
We show that PeerTube is a rapidly growing platform with
over 1200 live instances as of August 2024, and an active
community as evidenced by the majority of the instances
running the latest version of the PeerTube software. Despite
the scale, we observe that the majority of instances are found
in Europe and North America with IP addresses belonging
to a handful of large cloud providers. While others have ob-
served similarly concerning trends toward centralization, in
PeerTube this problem is exacerbated by the limited degree of
content replication: over 92% of all videos are stored without
any inter-instance redundancy.
In summary, we make the following key contributions:
• We present the first characterization of PeerTube, with
a focus on (de)centralization.
• We describe our measurement approach and the datasets
we collect on the infrastructure, content and use of the
platform.
• We present our findings, highlighting a concerning de-
gree of centralization, made worse by a limited degree
of content replication.
An understanding of PeerTube and its challenges as a dis-
tributed platform provides the context and motivation for
new work to address them in the future.
2 PEERTUBE
PeerTube [22] is an open source, federated video hosting
service whose development began in 2017 by a programmer
known as Chocobozzz. Since 2018, the development of Peer-
Tube has been supported by the French non-profit Framasoft.
The first stable version released in October 2018.
PeerTube follows semantic versioning, and has had 5 ma-
jor releases to date with minor releases typically between one
and three months apart.
The architecture follows a client/server model with inter-
server federation, much like email or XMPP. Servers, or in-
stances, communicate with each other and with their clients
(Fig. 1). They are created by an instance administrator on
a virtual or bare-metal host. The administrator has control
over the server’s behavior and can configure registration, fed-
eration, and video redundancy policies.
Registered users can upload videos to channels on their
home instance, which becomes that video’s origin instance.
The origin instance maintains control over the video and
its associated data, including comments and the view count.
Videos are bound to their origin instance, but an administra-
tor can migrate the whole instance by copying the underlying
database and video files. However, PeerTube allows other in-
stances to copy the complete video and serve it to clients
to improve performance and availability. Such instances are
known as caching instances and are the basis of what Peer-
Tube refers to as video redundancy, duplication, or mirror-
ing, interchangeably. Redundancy is controlled by the ad-
ministrator, who picks instances from which to mirror as
well as one or more redundancy “strategies” with storage
quotas. The three available caching strategies can fetch the
most viewed, most recently added, or most actively trending
videos. Note that, within the limit of the quotas, the server
will not deprioritize caching large videos.
PeerTube servers communicate with each other using the
ActivityPub protocol. The protocol defines semantics for op-
erations between a set of social media entities, including
posting content, following, liking, etc. In the case of Peer-
Tube, when the administrator of an instance chooses to fol-
low another, its users can see and interact with that in-
stance’s videos. The follower instance additionally lists that
instance’s videos, which causes them to be discoverable –
whether through the search interface or otherwise – and view-
able to users. Instance follows are unidirectional. The Peer-
Tube documentation encourages administrators to maintain
their own index of instances to follow, which can be fed as
a JSON object to the PeerTube server. Framasoft’s afore-
mentioned tracker is one such index. Note that an instance
following another instance does not imply that any video
replication is occurring – listed videos are still served by
the origin instance and any mirroring instances. However,
any instance adhering to the protocol will report follow and
replication events to the origin instance.
PeerTube clients include the first-party PeerTube web app
as well as third-party apps for Android and other platforms.
Clients communicate with the servers using a REST API,
which provides authentication, search, commenting, and other
core functionality. They stream videos using HTTP Live
Streaming (HLS) or WebTorrent. PeerTube v6 removed WebTor-
rent completely in favor of HLS over WebRTC, which was al-
ready favored in PeerTube before this release. Both protocols
enable clients to download chunks of the video from other
instances that have a mirrored copy. The first-party client
will also download the video from peers using WebTorrent
or peer-to-peer HLS. These peers are the swarm of viewers
downloading the same video, and each will advertise itself
for discovery while it downloads a video.
3 DATA AND METHODOLOGY
For our characterization of PeerTube we build on two key
datasets: (𝑖) instance hostnames and configuration objects,
and (𝑖𝑖) video and creator metadata. These datasets were
ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review Volume 54 Issue 4, October 2024
27

Figure
1: PeerTube Instances
gathered by crawling PeerTube instances, starting with a
global list of instances from the Framasoft’s tracker [6]. This
site contains a list of over 1000 instances from around the
world. 1 The crawl was performed in August 2024. We use
the REST API exposed by each instance [5] to gather objects
describing videos, registered accounts, and instance configu-
ration. Instances expose a list of instances they are following
and being followed by, which our crawler adds to its crawling
queue recursively. For reference, the PeerTube API documen-
tation provides the complete schema of all the objects 2 3 4
our crawler requests and parses.
This approach discovers instances in the “main” connected
component of the instance graph, which includes the in-
stances on the tracker’s list, but may miss smaller connected
components not reachable via the main component. We ar-
gue that members of such connected components may be
better analyzed as private video-sharing servers or forums,
not in the context of PeerTube as a federated social network.
Instances. A list of hostnames was gathered by crawling
PeerTube instances and keeping track of unique servers (by
hostname) whose configuration REST endpoints return valid
responses. We geolocate these hosts based on their IP ad-
dresses using MaxMind’s GeoIP location database [3], ip-
info.io, and RIPE IPmap [7], and record the results from
ipinfo.io. All three sources disagree on the country-level lo-
cation of 1% of the addresses, and two sources disagree on
17%. We gather an instance configuration object exposed by
each instance’s API. These objects give us information about
the running software (and whether it is a PeerTube server at
all) and options/policies set by the instance administrator.
1Some
instances were not reachable and/or defunct at the time of our
data collection.
2https://docs.joinpeertube.org/api-rest-reference.html#tag/Config
3https://docs.joinpeertube.org/api-rest-reference.html#tag/
Instance-Follows
4https://docs.joinpeertube.org/api-rest-reference.html#tag/Video
Video Metadata. Video metadata is collected from API
responses. Each video metadata object contains information
including the number of views, likes and dislikes, account
information for the creator publishing the video, and a video
category. Video categories are strings, often from a canonical
set (e.g. “News & Politics”).
Every video is identified by a UUID that is globally unique
on the PeerTube network. The collected video data con-
tains all listed videos on each instance, including those from
servers being followed by the instance (non-local videos). As
a result, videos with the same UUID can appear multiple
times in our list, regardless of whether they are mirrored
or not. We key our dataset by UUID to obtain a list of
unique videos while recording each video’s listing factor –
the number of instances listing that video. Since our crawler
reaches each listing at a different time, gathering inconsistent
view and like counts for the same video, we take the highest
view/like count. This is a reasonably accurate estimate given
the short total duration of a crawl (about 30 hours).
Notice that, because mirroring another instance’s video
implies listing it, our listing factor is an upper bound on
the redundancy factor, the number of instances that hold a
complete copy of a given video. However, we can calculate
a more accurate redundancy factor for a subset of instances
(88%) which have this data available – and publish valid
HLS streams. In recent versions of PeerTube, instances ex-
pose multiple streaming sources including one from the orig-
inating instance, as well as a redundancies list with URLs to
instances that mirror the video. For each video, we gather all
unique streaming hosts (including the originating instance
and caching instances) to calculate a redundancy factor.
Ethics. Our study relies on public infrastructure informa-
tion and information on shared content that has been made
publicly available. We focus on infrastructure and video meta-
data using aggregates and do not analyze individuals.
4 PEERTUBE INFRASTRUCTURE
In this section, we characterize the infrastructure behind the
PeerTube federation collectively. We focus our analysis on
instances, their configuration, and their dependencies, and
review their geographic and network locations.
4.1 Instances
Our data collection approach discovered about 1200 total
online PeerTube instances. Some of these instances are not
visible on the PeerTube instance tracker hosted by Frama-
soft [6] since Framasoft delists instances under certain condi-
tions. Furthermore, some discovered instances were unreach-
able; we have excluded these from our analysis.
As with other federated and decentralized services [16, 35,
36], it is virtually impossible to state an exact total count
of PeerTube instances at a given moment considering their
nonzero churn rate and the number of instances that are
misconfigured or temporarily unresponsive.
ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review Volume 54 Issue 4, October 2024
28

Coun
try Instances Percentage
German
y 268 24 .5
United States 254 23 .2
France 238 21 .8
Finland 53 4 .8
Canada 44 4
Russian Federation 34 3 .1
Netherlands 26 2 .4
Switzerland 26 2 .4
Sweden 19 1 .7
United Kingdom 16 1 .5
T
able 1: Top countries by number of instances. The top 3
countries host about two-thirds of all instances.
From the collected instance configurations, we noticed sev-
eral trends. Only about 19% of instances had open public reg-
istration with many of the remaining instances being used
only by small groups of users, and others likely offering ex-
clusive registration in some other manner (judging by the
number of users).
Additionally, we found that 70% of instances, at the time
of writing, were running the latest major version of the Peer-
Tube server software, and only 14% were more than one
major version behind. 42% were running the latest minor
release. This suggests a very active community of instance
administrators, since the upgrade process is not automatic.
4.2 Geolocation, ASes, and Hosting
We analyze the distribution of instances across geographical
locations and autonomous systems (ASes), thus also infer-
ring information about the infrastructure providers powering
the PeerTube network.
We find that the majority of instances are located in Eu-
rope and North America. Specifically, Germany, the United
States, and France lead with well over half of the total.
Table 1 lists the top countries by number of instances as
geolocated by ipinfo.io. Note that the development of Peer-
Tube is supported by Framasoft, a French non-profit organi-
zation [23].
To determine the ASes hosting PeerTube instances, we
resolve the hostname of each instance using a public DNS
resolver. This yields a set of IPv4 addresses; we ignore IPv6
addresses since fewer than half of all instance hostnames
have a AAAA record. We then query RIPEstat’s API to
determine the ASN and the name of the AS holder for every
IP address. 4 of these IP addresses are advertised by more
than one AS (making them multihomed).
Figure 2 shows the cumulative distribution function of
instances per AS. We see that 62% of instances are hosted
in the 15 most popular ASes, and over 50% of instances are
hosted by the 7 most popular ASes.
Table 2 lists the most popular ASes, their ASNs, and the
percentage of instances hosted there. The overwhelming ma-
jority of top ASes belong to large cloud providers. Unsurpris-
ingly, the two most popular ASes belong to Hetzner Online
Figure
2: CDF of AS Distribution.
AS
Holder ASN Percentage
HETZNER-AS
- Hetzner Online GmbH 24940 17.5
OVH - OVH SAS 16276 10.7
CLOUDFLARENET 13335 9.9
AS12876 - SCALEW AY S.A.S. 12876 3.8
NETCUP-AS - netcup GmbH 197540 3.5
PROXAD - Free SAS 12322 3.3
CONTABO - Contabo GmbH 51167 3.1
DIGITALOCEAN-ASN 14061 2.1
AKAMAI-LINODE-AP Akamai Connected C 63949 1.9
AS-CHOOPA 20473 1.3
AS3215 - Orange S.A. 3215 1.3
OCTOPUCE-AS - Octopuce s.a.r.l. 28855 1.1
ORACLE-BMC-31898 31898 1
”GITOYEN-MAIN-AS - Association ””Gito” 20766 0.8
DTAG - Deutsche Telekom AG 3320 0.8
T
able 2: Top ASes by number of instances; the top 5 host 45%
of all instances.
and OVHCloud, a popular German and French cloud host-
ing provider, respectively. These are followed by Cloudflare’s
AS, which likely includes many instances that are solely us-
ing Cloudflare’s DDoS mitigation services. We believe that
the notable absence of US cloud hyperscalers, such as A WS
and GCP, is caused largely by the current lack of competi-
tive pricing, especially for transfer-out network bandwidth.
For reference, at the time of writing, OVHCloud and Scale-
way provided unlimited monthly transfer for at least some of
their VPS product offerings. Most other popular providers
charged 1–2 orders of magnitude less per byte of network
traﬀic than the hyperscalers, often with 10TB or more in-
cluded for free.
4.3 Federation graph
We analyze the federation graph, in which each instance is
a node and edges represent a “followed-by” or “following”
relationship.
ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review Volume 54 Issue 4, October 2024
29

Figure
3: A log-log plot of the number of follows of an instance
against instances ordered by their total number of follows. The
inflection point separates the “super-followers” .
We observe that the dominant follow pattern in the net-
work consists of a few instances, which we call “super-fol-
lowers”, that follow nearly every other instance in the ob-
servable network. Upon manual inspection of their “About”
pages, it’s clear that many of these instances explicitly have
the goal of being an aggregator providing a listing of videos
across the PeerTube network, and some have few to zero
local videos. Figure 3 plots the number of follows of each
instance, simultaneously sorting instances by this metric. It
shows a clear inflection point separating the “super-follow-
ers” from the remainder of the instances, which have the
expected power law distribution with their number of fol-
lows.
Furthermore, there is a less obvious but noticeable pat-
tern separating the commonly followed instances from those
on the periphery of the network, some of which are fol-
lowed by no other instance (including the “super-followers”).
Appendix A describes this pattern in additional detail with
the help of graph visualizations.
5 CONTENT
We now examine the content on the PeerTube network, fo-
cusing on redundancy. Then, we briefly examine the video
production of the network over time and the popularity dis-
tribution of videos.
5.1 Redundancy
Compounding the problem of infrastructure centralization,
we observe that content published on the PeerTube network
is (𝑖) listed across a few instances and ( 𝑖𝑖) redundantly copied
on even fewer instances. Specifically, most videos (80%) are
listed across 3 or fewer instances, and 95% of videos are
listed across 6 or fewer. More problematically, PeerTube’s
redundancy feature is not widely used. Videos are redun-
dantly stored across a low number of instances, with 92% of
content stored on a single instance.
Figure
4: Videos published/month (Jan 2018 - Aug 2024)
First, a low listing factor indicates that content is dis-
played on few instances on average, which impedes the dis-
coverability of content for users of other instances. Second,
a low redundancy factor indicates that a limited number of
instances store a local copy of each video, which restricts
from where users can retrieve video.
Although these results are concerning, they are consistent
with the design of the PeerTube software, which has an “opt-
in” policy for content federation across servers. This design
choice acknowledges the significant cost of storage and band-
width for video content, requiring administrators to config-
ure a redundancy strategy. Unlike in other federated appli-
cations, content is not distributed across all servers automat-
ically, centralizing content on a small set of servers that can
handle it. This means the network as a whole likely has low
resilience against failures in internet infrastructure as well as
censorship, whether in the form of DDoS (distributed denial-
of-service) attacks or simple blocking based on DNS, IP ad-
dress, or TLS Server Name Identification (SNI) headers.
5.2 Production trends
The total number of videos published using PeerTube is grow-
ing quadratically year over year. Note that we do not have
historical data, so videos no longer listed by any instance
are excluded. The month-to-month publication rate gener-
ally follows the quadratic trend, but there are months with
sudden spikes in videos published (Fig. 4). While the cause
of each is not immediately clear to us, some are likely re-
lated to spikes of growth of the whole Fediverse, such as the
spike in late 2022 after Twitter (now X) changed ownership.
Though we did not inspect the video data for such activity, it
is possible that instances may be spoofing videos (returning
listings and metadata for nonexistent videos).
5.3 Popularity distribution
The 872,653 unique videos we discovered collectively held a
total of 124,172,763 views in August 2024. Figure 5a presents
a CDF of the number of views per video. As is typical in
ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review Volume 54 Issue 4, October 2024
30

(a)
Figure
5: CDF of views per video
such distributions, views are largely concentrated on the
most popular videos. Over 3% of all views belong to just
5 videos. We also found that 305,282 videos did not have a
single reported view.
Likes and dislikes offer another indicator of content pop-
ularity. We found a total of 264,393 likes across all videos
for an average of 0.30 likes per video, and 13,725 dislikes for
an average of 0.016 dislikes per video. We find likes and dis-
likes heavily concentrated on a small set of videos, with the
majority of videos having no likes or dislikes. We observe no
relationship between any of likes, dislikes, and views.
6 RELATED WORK
We present what is, to the best of our knowledge, the first
characterization of PeerTube, a federated video sharing ser-
vice. The service is offered as an alternative to centralized
video hosting services such as YouTube and Vimeo. YouTube
has been extensively studied [11, 17, 21, 24, 25, 32, 38].
PeerTube is part of a larger ecosystem of open-source, fed-
erated social media software platforms such as Mastodon [26],
Pleroma and Diaspora [14]. PeerTube servers are an active
part of the aforementioned Fediverse [20]. Raman et al. [34]
present a large-scale study of Mastodon as an example of the
decentralized web, exploring the feasibility and challenges of
running federated social web systems. Fediverse platforms
are in turn part of broader developments in decentralized sys-
tems. The IndieWeb [31] initiative and InterPlanetary File
System are notable and key in these developments, as are
various blockchain-based systems.
Trautwein et al. [39] describe the design and implementa-
tion of IPFS, an open-source, content-addressable P2P net-
work that provides distributed data storage and delivery,
and serves as a platform for various decentralized web appli-
cations such as social networking and content sharing. Bal-
duf et al. [10] presents a large-scale measurement study of
IPFS that shows similarly concerning trends toward central-
ization with almost 80% of IPFS DHT servers hosted in the
cloud with the top three cloud providers hosting nearly 52%
of all servers.
DTube is another video streaming platform that builds
on IPFS and the Steem blockchain for content delivery and
curation. Unlike the federated PeerTube, the platform is de-
veloped with the intent of being fully P2P. Viet Doan et
al. [19] assess the viability of DTube. The work takes the
perspective of an end user and measures the performance
of DTube video streaming, which currently leverages IPFS
HTTP gateways that act as a “CDN” to improve streaming
performance over the direct use of IPFS. They find such a
content caching model to be potentially competitive with
centralized services like YouTube.
7 CONCLUSION
PeerTube’s support for user-generated, long-form video presents
a unique set of challenges different from those faced by other
types of federated services, such as microblogging, ranging
from the model of replication used to ensure availability to
the approach clients use for content download. In this pa-
per, we presented the first characterization of PeerTube, the
content being shared using it, and the underlying infrastruc-
ture. Our study reveals clear trends toward centralization,
including a reliance on large hosting providers, across few
networks and countries, but with the added problem of near
zero redundancy. These findings shed light on important as-
pects of PeerTube’s current state, emphasizing the need for
further examination and potential strategies to enhance its
decentralization and content resilience.
7.1 Improving decentralization
Increasing video redundancy could be a straightforward way
to enhance PeerTube’s fault tolerance. For starters, increas-
ing the use of PeerTube’s native redundancy functionality
could simultaneously provide additional available bandwidth
to copied videos and reduce the risk of them becoming un-
available if the origin instance goes offline. This could be
achieved by simply making it a suggested default for an in-
stance administrator configuring a new server. For instances
run on dedicated cloud servers or VPSs – the majority – it
would make sense to allow PeerTube to use the entire disk
for redundancy.
In addition, while more complex than simply altering in-
stance redundancy defaults, PeerTube developers could con-
sider implementing support for external video redundancy
to gain the benefits of distributed storage. The peer-to-peer
protocol IPFS [ 39] could provide such storage. This is not a
new proposal; commenters in [2] discussed the use of IPFS
[39] for video storage years ago. Section 6 further discusses
IPFS and an existing IPFS-based video sharing network. To
resolve the inherent reliability issues with peer-to-peer stor-
age, the IPFS-backed Filecoin network could be used by in-
stance administrators to pay for IPFS storage at competitive
prices.
ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review Volume 54 Issue 4, October 2024
31

A
FEDERATION GRAPHS
Two NEATO graphs (drawn with the Graphviz NEATO en-
gine 5) were created to help visualize the instance federation
graph. Each of these graphs consists of 100 random instances
sampled from the set of discovered instances plus all directed
neighbors of each of the chosen instances. This sampling was
done to reduce the visual crowding that makes these graphs
otherwise impossible to interpret.
Figure 6 shows instances with directed edges to their fol-
lowers (that is, an arrow is drawn from A to B if B follows
A). The graph shows a clear cluster of instances in the cen-
ter with a second ring of followers around it. Many of these
followers are likely the “super-follower” instances. The cen-
tral cluster is distinct from the instances on the periphery
of the network, which are likely small and have fewer users
and videos.
Figure 7 shows a similar visualization with the edges in-
stead directed away from followers (that is, an arrow is drawn
from A to B if A follows B). The central cluster mirrors the
“super-follower” set in Figure 3.
On each graph, nodes are colored by country such that
all instances from a given country will have the same color,
helping to visually identify follower groups that share a coun-
try. From the node colors, there are no obvious clumps of
“socially isolated” instances in a single country not followed
by instances from other countries.
REFERENCES
[1] ActivityPub. https://activitypub.rocks/.
[2] Ipfs to store videos, issue 494. https://github.com/Chocobozzz/
PeerTube/issues/494.
[3] MaxMind geolocation data. https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/
geolite2-free-geolocation-data.
[4] OAuth. https://oauth.net/.
[5] PeerTube API. https://docs.joinpeertube.org/api-rest-reference.
html.
[6] PeerTube instances list. https://joinpeertube.org/instances.
[7] RIPE IPmap. https://ipmap.ripe.net/.
[8] WebTorrent. https://webtorrent.io/.
[9] Consolidation in the internet economy, Feb 2020.
[10] Leonhard Balduf ad Maciej Korczynski, Onur Ascigil, Navin V.
Keizer, George Pavlou, Bjorn Scheuermann, and Michal Kroll.
The cloud strikes back: Investigating the decentralization of IPFS.
2023.
[11] Vijay K. Adhikari, Sourabh Jain, Yingying Chen, and Zhi-Li
Zhang. Vivisecting YouTube: An active measurement study.
2012.
[12] Jari Arkko. Centralised architectures in internet infrastructure.
IETF Internet Draft , 2019.
[13] Eloise Barry. These are the countries where Twitter, Facebook
and TikTok are banned. Time Magazine, January 2022.
[14] Ames Bielenberg, Lara Helm, Antholy Gentilucci, Dan Ste-
fanescu, and Honggang Zhang. The growth of Diaspora - a decen-
tralized online social network in the wild. In INFOCOM Work-
shop, 2012.
[15] Ian Bogost. So much for the decentralized internet. The
Atlantic, July 2020. https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/
archive/2020/07/twitter-hack-decentralized-internet/614593/.
[16] Fabián E. Bustamante and Yi Qiao. Designing less-structured
p2p systems for the expected high churn. 16(3), June 2008.
[17] Pedro Casas, Pierdomenico Fiadino, Arian Bär, Alessandro
D’Alconzo, Alessandro Finamore, and Marco Mellia. YouTube
all around: Characterizing YouTube from mobile and fixed-line
network vantage points. In Proc. of EuCNC, 2014.
5https://graphviz.org/docs/layouts/neato/
[18] Lucio
La Cava, Sergio Greco, and Andrea Tagarelli. Understand-
ing the growth of the Fediverse through the lens of Mastodon.
Applied Network Science , 6(64), September 2021.
[19] Trinh Viet Doan, Tat Dat Pham, Markus Oberprieler, and Vaib-
hav Bajpai. Measuring decentralized video streaming: A case
study of dtube. In Proc. of the IFIP Networking Conference
(Networking), 2020.
[20] Fediverse.party. About fediverse - diversity is strength. https:
//fediverse.party/en/fediverse/.
[21] Alessandro Finamore, Marco Mellia, Maurizio M. Munafo, Ruben
Torres, and Sanjay G. Rao. YouTube everywhere: impact of de-
vice and infrastructure synergies on user experience. 2011.
[22] Framasoft. Peertube documentation. https://docs.joinpeertube.
org/admin-following-instances.
[23] Framasoft. PeerTube. https://joinpeertube.org/, October 2022.
[24] Phillipa Gill, Martin Arlitt, Zongpeng Li, and Anirban Mahanti.
Youtube traﬀic characterization: a view from the edge. 2007.
[25] Danilo Giordano, Stefano Traverso, Luigi Grimaudo, Marco
Mellia, Elena Baralis, Alog Tongaonkar, and Sabyasachi Saha.
YouLighter: A cognitive approach to unveil YouTube CDN and
changes. IEEE TCCN, 1(2), 2015.
[26] Mastodon GmbH. Mastodon. https://joinmastodon.org/, Octo-
ber 2022.
[27] Jahui He, Haris Bin Zia, Ignacio Castro, Aravindh Raman, Nis-
hanth Sastry, and Gareth Tyson. Flocking to mastodon: Tracking
the great twitter migration. 2023.
[28] Hubzilla. Hubzilla. https://hubzilla.org/, October 2022.
[29] Geoff Huston. DNS resolver centrality. APNIC Blog, September
2019.
[30] Geoff Huston. CDN and centrality. APNIC Blog, July 2021.
[31] IndieWeb. What is the IndieWeb? https://indieweb.org/, 2022.
[32] Ricky K. P. Mok, Vaibhav Bajpai, Amogh Dhamdhere, and K. C.
Claffy. Revealing the load-balancing behavior of youtube traﬀic
on interdomain links. 2018.
[33] Associated Press. Youtube blocked in brazil. LA Times, January
2007.
[34] Aravindh Raman, Sagar Joglekar, Emiliano De Cristofaro, Nis-
hanth Sastry, and Gareth Tyson. Challenges in the decentralized
web: The mastodon case. 2019.
[35] S. Rhea, D. Geels, Timothy Roscoe, and John Kubiatowicz. Han-
dling churn in a DHT. 2004.
[36] Daniel Stutzbach and Reza Rejaie. Understanding churn in peer-
to-peer networks. 2006.
[37] Josh Taylor. Facebook outage: what went wrong and why did it
take so long to fix after social platform went down. The Guardian,
October 5 2021.
[38] R. Torres, A. Finamore, J. R. Kim, M. Mellia, M. M. Munafo,
and S. Rao. Dissecting video server selection strategies in the
YouTube CDN. 2011.
[39] Dennis Trautwein, Aravindh Raman, Gareth Tyson, Ignacio Cas-
tro, Will Scott, Moritz Shubotz, Bela Gipp, and Yannis Psaras.
Design and evaluation of IPFS: a storage layer for the decentral-
ized Web. 2022.
[40] Decla Walsh. Pakistan blocks Facebook in row over Muhammad
drawings. The Guardian , May 19 2010.
ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review Volume 54 Issue 4, October 2024
32

Figure
6: A NEATO visualization of instances with directed edges to followers.
ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review Volume 54 Issue 4, October 2024
33

Figure
7: A NEATO visualization of instances with directed edges to the instances they follow.
ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review Volume 54 Issue 4, October 2024
34