Bazaar: Strengthening user reputations in online marketpl aces
Ansley Post†‡ Vijit Shah∗ Alan Mislove∗
∗Northeastern University †MPI-SWS ‡Rice University
Abstract
Online marketplaces are now a popular way for users to
buy and sell goods over the Internet. On these sites, user
reputations—based on feedback from other users con-
cerning prior transactions—are used to assess the likely
trustworthiness of users. However, because accounts
are often free to obtain, user reputations are subject to
manipulation through white-washing, Sybil attacks, and
user collusion. This manipulation leads to wasted time
and signiﬁcant monetary losses for defrauded users, and
ultimately undermines the usefulness of the online mar-
ketplace.
In this paper, we propose Bazaar, a system that ad-
dresses the limitations of existing online marketplace
reputation systems. Bazaar calculates user reputations
using a max-ﬂow-based technique over the network
formed from prior successful transactions, thereby limit-
ing reputation manipulation. Unlike existing approaches,
Bazaar provides strict bounds on the amount of fraud that
malicious users can conduct, regardless of the number
of identities they create. An evaluation based on a trace
taken from a real-world online marketplace demonstrates
that Bazaar is able to bound the amount of fraud in prac-
tice, while only rarely impacting non-malicious users.
1 Introduction
Online marketplaces like eBay, Overstock Auctions, and
Amazon Marketplace enable buyers and sellers to con-
nect regardless of each other’s location, allowing even
the most esoteric of products to ﬁnd a market. These
marketplaces have greatly expanded the set of people
who can act as a buyer or seller and, thus, can be viewed
as democratizing commerce. These sites are extremely
popular with users; in 2009, over $60 billion worth of
goods was exchanged on eBay alone.
This new freedom, however, does not come without
challenges. Online marketplaces are known to suffer
from fraud, and often rely on user reputations—formed
from the feedback provided by other users—in an ef-
fort to mitigate the effects of malicious activities on thei r
sites. For example, on eBay, potential buyers often ex-
amine the reputation of the seller to determine the seller’s
trustworthiness. In fact, it has been observed [13, 15, 19]
that sellers with highly positive reputations tend to sell
goods at a higher price when compared to sellers with
lower reputations, demonstrating the central role that
user reputations play in online marketplaces. Malicious
buyers (who do not pay for goods purchased) and ma-
licious sellers (who do not deliver the promised goods)
quickly gain bad reputations and are avoided [11].
One challenge, however, is that accounts on online
marketplaces are often free to create (usually only requir-
ing ﬁlling out a form and solving a CAPTCHA [23]), to
avoid discouraging potential users. As a result, reputa-
tions derived from user feedback are still subject to three
types of manipulation:
• Malicious users whose accounts have a bad reputa-
tion can effectively white-wash their reputation by
creating a new account with a blank reputation.
• Malicious users can collude by providing positive
feedback on each other’s transactions, thereby im-
proving both of their reputations. 1
• Malicious users can create fake identities, known as
Sybils [7], and use these to provide positive feed-
back on ﬁctitious transactions between the various
identities, thereby inﬂating their reputations.
Reputation manipulation can lead to signiﬁcant mone-
tary losses for defrauded users. For example, a single
malicious eBay user was recently found to have created
260 different accounts, fabricated positive feedback, and
stolen over $717,000 from over 5,000 users [24]. This
1In fact, this type of abuse can be plainly viewed on eBay by search-
ing for auctions that are selling “positive feedback.” As of this writing,
350 such auctions exist for prices ranging from $0.01 to $0.9 9.

case is hardly unique: Another malicious eBay user was
arrested after defrauding others of over $1 million [20].
In this paper, we propose Bazaar, a system that
strengthens user reputations in online marketplaces in
the face of collusion, white-washing, and Sybil attacks.
Bazaar creates and maintains a risk network in order to
predict whether potential transactions are likely to be
fraudulent. The risk network consists of weighted links
between pairs of users who have successfully conducted
transactions in the past. When a transaction is about
to be completed, Bazaar calculates the max-ﬂow be-
tween the buyer and seller; if it is lower than the amount
of the transaction, the transaction is ﬂagged as poten-
tially fraudulent. Since Bazaar only needs to determine
whether the max-ﬂow is above a given value (instead of
calculating the exact max-ﬂow), Bazaar stores the risk
network using a novel multi-graph representation. We
demonstrate that this results in a substantial speed-up
of Bazaar’s max-ﬂow calculation while imposing only a
modest storage overhead.
Bazaar provides a number of useful security proper-
ties: First, malicious users in Bazaar cannot conduct
more fraud together than they could separately, and as
a result, there is no incentive for malicious users to col-
lude. Second, malicious users cannot gain any advantage
from conducting Sybil attacks, and thus, there is no in-
centive to create multiple identities. Third, Bazaar ex-
plicitly allows users to create as many identities as they
wish; this is sometimes a desired feature in online mar-
ketplaces, where sellers may own multiple businesses or
wish to maintain separate identities for different types of
goods. Fourth, Bazaar provides a strict guarantee that
each user can only defraud others by up to the amount of
valid transactions the user has participated in, regardles s
of the number of identities the user possesses, thereby
bounding the potential damage.
We evaluate Bazaar using a trace collected from eBay,
the largest online marketplace. We collected a 90-day
history of ﬁve of the most popular categories on the eBay
United Kingdom site, encompassing over 3 million users
and 8 million auctions. Simulating Bazaar on this data
set, we demonstrate that Bazaar successfully bounds the
amount of fraudulent transactions that malicious users
can conduct, while only rarely impacting the transactions
that occur between non-malicious users. We demonstrate
that if Bazaar had been deployed on eBay during the 90-
day period and in the ﬁve categories we study, it would
have ﬂagged over £164,000 of auctions that eventually
resulted in negative feedback as potentially fraudulent,
substantially increasing the reliability of the online mar -
ketplace.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Sec-
tion 2 describes the approaches that are currently taken to
secure online marketplaces, and Section 3 provides more
detail on different types of fraud that are still present to-
day. Section 4 describes the design of Bazaar in detail,
and Section 5 details the multi-graph representation of
the risk network. Section 6 presents an evaluation of
Bazaar. Section 7 details related work and Section 8 con-
cludes.
2 Background
Online marketplaces often use site-speciﬁc mechanisms
for fraud prevention, but many of these can be reduced to
a few simple techniques:
Making joining the market difﬁcult Certain market-
places only allow trusted users or organizations to par-
ticipate as sellers, often requiring upfront fees or ac-
counts backed by difﬁcult-to-forge ﬁnancial information.
An example of such such an approach is Amazon Mer-
chants [3], which requires bank account information, a
$40-per-month fee, and pre-approval for listing high-
fraud-risk goods. However, by making it more difﬁcult
to join, this approach reduces the usefulness of the mar-
ketplace and severely restricts the population of sellers.
Using a trusted broker In some marketplaces, a mid-
dleman participates in the transaction and holds payment
until the buyer is satisﬁed with the transaction. For exam-
ple, on eBay, there are escrow services that hold money
for transactions until the buyer has received the good.
However, brokers typically charge a ﬁxed fee and a per-
centage of the sale, 2 increasing the transaction cost and
making escrow practical only for expensive goods (rep-
resenting a small minority of the goods on typical mar-
ketplaces).
Requiring in-person transactions Other marketplaces
such as Craigslist require buyers and sellers to be within
the same geographical area, ensuring that the participants
can meet in person to complete a transaction. This ap-
proach allows buyers to inspect goods, and sellers to ver-
ify payment, before going through with the transaction.
However, this approach also severely restricts who is able
to buy and sell goods from each other (as the buyer and
seller must live close to each other), limiting its useful-
ness to local marketplaces.
Providing insurance Certain marketplaces offer buyer
and seller insurance programs, either by default or for a
fee. However, coverage is generally limited to certain
geographic regions and the cost of the insurance pay-
outs and program administration results in higher fees
for marketplace users. Nevertheless, the information that
Bazaar provides can be viewed as an estimate of risk be-
2For example, eBay’s recommended escrow service charges a mi n-
imum of $22 and up to 3% of the transaction cost.

tween two parties, and can therefore be used as an input
when choosing the appropriate the insurance premium.
Paying via trusted services Because certain payment
methods (e.g., money orders) are difﬁcult to recover,
many marketplaces suggest or require that trusted on-
line payment services (e.g., PayPal) be used. Ideally,
such services would link accounts to real-world ﬁnancial
information, making the creation of multiple accounts
difﬁcult. However, this is not the case: For example,
receiving money with a PayPal account only requires
an email address (although ﬁnancial information is re-
quired to withdraw funds). Thus, malicious users can
receive money with networks of email-backed accounts,
and then send that money to the single, “real” account
that is able to withdraw money.
Leveraging feedback Finally, many online market-
places use feedback provided by users who have par-
ticipated in transactions. For example, eBay’s feedback
mechanism calculates a score for each user, consisting
of the amount of positive feedback minus the amount of
negative feedback. Users with highly positive feedback
scores are considered to be more trustworthy, and have
been observed to sell goods for higher prices [13, 15, 19].
This approach has the advantage of not restricting mar-
ketplace membership and allowing any buyer and seller
to participate in a transaction. However, as we will ob-
serve in the next section, using feedback is often subject
to manipulation by malicious users.
Ideally, we would like to prevent fraud without un-
necessarily restricting participation in the online marke t-
place. The ﬁrst four approaches above artiﬁcially restrict
the marketplace by making it either harder to join, more
expensive to use, segmenting it based on geography, or
spreading the cost of fraud to all users. Thus, we focus
on the last approach, leveraging feedback, for the design
of Bazaar and present a design that is not subject to the
manipulation of existing approaches. Focusing on user
feedback also has the advantage that is the mechanism
used by the largest online marketplaces, such as eBay,
meaning Bazaar could be directly applied to such sites.
3 Examples of malicious behavior
We motivate the design of Bazaar by examining several
types of fraud that have been observed in online market-
places today. The eBay dataset that we use for illustra-
tion is fully described in Section 6, however, our purpose
here is simply to provide a few motivating examples. In
this section, we focus on malicious sellers who attempt
to defraud buyers, as sellers are largely protected from
malicious buyers by being allowed to verify payment be-
fore shipping the good. To deﬁne the fraud we observe,
we look at various sellers’ feedback history, consisting
of entries recording whether the buyer was satisﬁed with
the transaction.
For clarity, we begin by examining the feedback his-
tory of a typical seller, shown in Figure 1 (a). Even
though over 99% of the seller’s feedback is positive, a
few items of negative feedback can be observed. A cer-
tain low level of negative feedback is expected even for
non-malicious sellers, as some buyers may have been un-
satisﬁed with their purchase (e.g., due to the good being
lost or damaged in transit, a miscommunication between
the participants, or buyer’s remorse). We will use similar
timeline diagrams throughout the rest of this section.
3.1 Leaving the marketplace
One of the most common types of fraud occurs when a
seller participates in the marketplace as a non-malicious
user for a period of time, and then turns malicious (often
by starting to conduct transactions without ever shipping
the goods). As a result, the unsuspecting buyers who
have not yet received their goods are defrauded. This
type of fraud can be detected once the buyers begin to
provide negative feedback, serving as a warning to oth-
ers. However, malicious users often take advantage of
the “window of opportunity” before the negative feed-
back appears: They can advertise and accept payment
for a large number of goods before any user realizes that
a fraud has occurred.
An example of such a malicious seller is shown in Fig-
ure 1 (b). Towards the end of the seller’s timeline, he lists
a signiﬁcant number of goods that are never delivered
and eventually result in negative feedback. In fact, this
user made signiﬁcantly more money in aggregate from
the fraudulent transactions than from the non-fraudulent
transactions. The underlying problem is that in-progress
transactions are not counted against a seller’s reputa-
tion, enabling malicious users to establish a reputation,
defraud users with the window of opportunity, and then
re-join the site with a new account.
3.2 Hiding fraud in the noise
As an alternative to leaving the marketplace, malicious
users have also been observed to “hide the fraud in the
noise” by participating in many non-fraudulent trans-
actions, but conducting fraudulent transactions for (rel-
atively) expensive goods. As a result, their feedback
history has only a small amount of negative feedback,
and only a close inspection of the transaction values re-
veals the fraud. An example of a malicious user con-
ducting such fraud is shown in Figure 1 (c), where
the user made more money through the two fraudulent
transactions than through the hundreds of non-fraudulent

Figure 1: Auction feedback history over time for three eBay s ellers: (a) a typical seller, (b) a malicious seller who
leaves the marketplace, and (c) a malicious seller who hides the fraud in the noise by conducting a few, large fraudulent
transactions. Positive feedback is shown in green, neutral feedback in blue, and negative feedback in red and below
the line. The size of each bar correspond to the log of the valu e of the auction.
transactions. The underlying problem is that the value
of transactions is not considered when determining a
seller’s reputation , enabling malicious users to conduct
a high-value fraudulent transactions with the same effec-
tive penalty (one piece of negative feedback) as a low-
value fraudulent transaction.
3.3 Conducting ﬁctitious transactions
Malicious users have also been observed to conduct ﬁc-
titious transactions and provide ﬁctitious positive feed-
back. The ultimate goal of these transactions is not to
sell a good, but rather, to improve the user’s feedback
score, making the user look more like an non-malicious
user. For example, numerous auctions on eBay are la-
beled with “Positive Feedback Guaranteed.” Often, these
auctions ostensibly offer a copy of a digital picture or
other token item, so as to appear as a legitimate auction.
Thus, it is easy for a malicious user to arbitrarily ma-
nipulate his feedback score by adding spurious positive
feedback, so as to appear as a legitimate seller. The un-
derlying problem is that feedback counts the same, re-
gardless of the other user providing the feedback . This
allows malicious users to conspire to inﬂate each other’s
feedback score (or, a single malicious user to do the same
via a Sybil attack).
3.4 Summary
In this section, we described three of the most common
types of reputation manipulation that are present in the
online marketplaces of today. In the next section, we de-
scribe the design of Bazaar, which addresses each type
of manipulation by (a) considering outstanding transac-
tions, (b) taking into account the value of transactions
with positive and negative feedback, and (c) discriminat-
ing between different users’ feedback, in order to pre-
vent malicious users from artiﬁcially inﬂating their repu-
tation.
4 Bazaar design
We now describe the design of Bazaar.
4.1 Overview
Bazaar is intended to augment an online marketplace, run
by a marketplace operator, where buyers and sellers may
have no previous relationship and accounts are free to ob-
tain. In such systems, buyers must rely on the reputation
of the sellers, represented by feedback from other buy-
ers, to distinguish between non-malicious and malicious
users. Thus, the goal of Bazaar is to protect buyers from
malicious sellers who manipulate their reputation so as
to appear non-malicious. Additionally, we aim to keep
the existing model and basic user operations, while sig-
niﬁcantly reducing the vulnerability to fraud. By doing
so, Bazaar serves as a drop-in component applicable to
numerous marketplaces.
Now, let us introduce a few deﬁnitions that we use for
the remainder of this section. A user corresponds to an
actual person in the ofﬂine world. An identity is an online
account with a particular username associated with it. A
user can have a potentially arbitrary number of identities.
A transaction is an event where two identities agree to a
sale, which has some value. Note that both identities in a
transaction may correspond to the same user.
Bazaar relies on two insights. First, successful trans-
actions between different users require signiﬁcant effort
and risk for both parties. Both users are trusting the other
to complete the transaction, by providing payment or de-
livering the good. We refer to this as shared risk be-
tween two users. Second, once a transaction has been
successfully completed, the two users are more likely to
enter into a transaction together in the future. Note, how-
ever, this risk in not unbounded, and is dependent on the
type of transaction that has occurred: The amount of risk
that two users are willing to undertake is likely propor-
tional to the amount of risk that has been successfully
rewarded.

4.2 Risk network
We view a successful transaction as linking two identi-
ties in an undirected fashion, where the weight of the
link is the aggregate monetary value of all success-
ful transactions—successfully rewarded shared risk—
between the two identities. For example, if identities A
and B participated in two successful transactions for $5
and $10, there would be an A ↔ B link with weight $15.
Note that link weights must always be non-negative.
The set of all such links forms an undirected network,
which we refer to as the risk network . An example of
such a network is shown in Figure 2 (a). Note that
the risk network has a particularly useful property: The
weights are automatically generated by user actions, and
do not have to be explicitly provided by users. As we
demonstrate below, the risk network can be used not only
to gauge the risk between two identities who have con-
ducted a transaction in the past, but also between arbi-
trary identities who may not have directly interacted in
the past.
4.3 Design
Bazaar is run behind-the-scenes by the online market-
place operator. The basic operation of Bazaar is sim-
ple: When a buyer is about to enter into a transaction,
the marketplace operator queries Bazaar, which calcu-
lates the max-ﬂow in the risk network between the buyer
and the seller. If the max-ﬂow is below the amount of the
potential transaction, the marketplace operator ﬂags the
transaction as potentially fraudulent. We discuss ways in
which this output can be used by the marketplace oper-
ator in Section 4.5, but for now, we assume that ﬂagged
transactions are blocked.
The intuition for this approach lies in the observation
above about shared risk. Consider a risk network with
only two identities, connected by a link of weight w. The
identities may be willing to engage in another transaction
of value w, and if that is successful, then another trans-
action for a higher amount. Bazaar generalizes this intu-
ition, allowing identities who are not directly connected
to engage in a transaction as long as there is a set of paths
of sufﬁcient weight connecting them. For example, in the
network shown in Figure 2 (a), if A was about to buy a
good from D, Bazaar would consider the ﬂow on paths
A ↔ B ↔ D and A ↔ C ↔ D in order to determine
D’s reputation from A’s perspective.
In existing online marketplaces, feedback-based rep-
utations are “global,” in the sense that everyone has the
same view of a given user’s reputation. In Bazaar, repu-
tations are a function of both the user who is being asked
about as well as the user who is asking. As we demon-
strate below, this approach allows Bazaar to mitigate rep-
utation manipulation: Malicious users who conspire to
inﬂate their reputations do not necessarily increase their
reputations from the perspective of non-malicious users.
4.3.1 Putting credit “on hold”
The design of Bazaar is complicated by the fact that the
buyer may not be able to determine whether the transac-
tion was fraudulent immediately after sending payment
for the good; generally, there is a delay between when
he agrees to the transaction and when the good arrives.
In order to prevent malicious sellers from abusing these
outstanding transactions in the manner observed in Sec-
tion 3.1, when the buyer decides to go through with the
transaction, Bazaar ﬁrst determines a path set 3 between
the buyer and seller that has a total weight of at least the
transaction amount. Such a path set must exist, as, other-
wise, the max-ﬂow between the buyer and seller is lower
than the transaction amount (meaning Bazaar would have
ﬂagged the transaction as potentially fraudulent).
Once the path set is determined, Bazaar temporarily
lowers the weights on these paths (in aggregate) by the
transaction amount. In essence, this puts the weight on
these paths “on hold” until feedback concerning the suc-
cess or failure of the transaction is received. Since each
link weight must always be non-negative, this approach
prevents the malicious users from leveraging the weight
that is “on hold” in order to conduct additional transac-
tions.
Continuing with our running example in Figure 2, the
initial state of the risk network is shown in Figure 2
(a), with each identity having participated in transaction s
with two other identities. Then, suppose that A con-
ducts a $10 transaction with D. Bazaar determines that
the max-ﬂow between A and D is greater than $10, and
therefore allows the transaction to go through without be-
ing ﬂagged. In doing so, Bazaar temporarily lowers the
links along the path set by a total of $10 (speciﬁcally, $2
is lowered off of the A ↔ B ↔ D path and $8 is low-
ered off of the A ↔ C ↔ D path). This is shown in
Figure 2 (b).
4.3.2 Responding to feedback
Finally, once the buyer provides feedback about the
transaction, Bazaar makes changes to the risk network.
These changes depend on the feedback from the buyer:
• Positive feedback If the buyer reports a success-
ful transaction, indicated by positive feedback,
Bazaar restores the temporarily lowered weight and
additionally creates a new link directly between
3If multiple path sets exist that have sufﬁcient weight, Baza ar sim-
ply picks one of these sets randomly.

$8 
$7 $2 
$10 
$15 
$2 
$10 
$10 
$15 
$2 
$10 
$10 $8 
$15 $7 
$2 $0 
$10 $2 
$10 
Figure 2: State of the risk network while A conducts a $10 transaction with D. The state is shown (a) before the
transaction, (b) while waiting for feedback, (c) if the buye r reports an negative feedback, (d) if the buyer reports a
positive feedback, and (a) again, if the buyer reports neutr al feedback or the timeout expires.
the buyer and seller weighted by the transaction
amount.4 This has the effect of both restoring the
network to its previous state, and creating a new
risk link between the buyer and seller. The intuition
for this action follows from the discussion above,
whereby the buyer and seller are more likely to en-
ter into a future transaction together.
• Neutral feedback If the buyer reports a par-
tially successful transaction, indicated by neutral
feedback, Bazaar restores the temporarily lowered
weight, but does not create a new link. This has the
effect of restoring the network to its previous state,
with no changes. The intuition for this action is that
users who provide neutral feedback are not claim-
ing that the transaction was fraudulent, but are not
completely satisﬁed. Thus, the buyer is not likely
to enter into a future transaction with the seller, but
does not wish to punish the seller by providing neg-
ative feedback.
• Negative feedback If the buyer reports an un-
successful transaction, indicated by negative feed-
back, Bazaar makes the temporary lowering of the
weights permanent and does not create any new
links. This has the effect of reducing weight on the
seller’s links, thereby decreasing the seller’s ability
to conduct transactions in the future without having
them ﬂagged. In particular, if the seller conducts
many transactions that end up with negative feed-
back, eventually, all of his links will be exhausted,
and he will be unable to conduct any non-ﬂagged
transactions.
• No feedback Finally, if the buyer does not report
feedback at all, a conﬁgurable timeout of T is used,
after which Bazaar responds as if the buyer pro-
vided neutral feedback (i.e., the temporarily low-
ered weight is restored, but no new link is created).
This is similar to existing sites, which often have a
time cutoff for providing feedback.
4If a direct link already existed, then Bazaar simply increas es that
link’s weight by the transaction amount.
Returning to our running example in Figure 2, sup-
pose that the feedback is received or the timeout occurs.
Bazaar either makes the weight reductions permanent if
the buyer reports negative feedback (Figure 2 (c)), re-
stores the previous weights and also forms a new A ↔ D
link if the buyer reports positive feedback (Figure 2 (d)),
or restores the previous weights if the buyer reports neu-
tral feedback or the timeout occurs (Figure 2 (a)).
The intuition for why Bazaar is able to prevent fraud is
demonstrated by the network shown in Figure 3, where a
malicious user X has created a number of identities ( X1
... X5) and has conducted ﬁctitious transactions between
them (in essence, the weight on these links can be ar-
bitrarily set by X). Without Bazaar, potential victim Z
would only see X1’s ﬁctitious feedback consisting of a
number of positive entries. Not knowing that all of this
positive feedback was from other identities owned by the
same underlying user, Z would likely be defrauded. With
Bazaar, however, the ﬁctitious transactions do not con-
tribute to the max-ﬂow between Z and X1, and Bazaar
is likely to ﬂag the transaction as potentially fraudulent
(even though Bazaar had no a priori knowledge that all
Xi identities belong to the same user). Moreover, should
$500 
$250 
$10 
$100 
$5 $75 
Figure 3: Example risk network, showing why Bazaar
secures reputations (links represent previous real transac-
tions, and double links represent ﬁctitious transactions) .
Honest identity Z is considering entering into a trans-
action with malicious identity X1 (owned by the same
user as X2 ... X5). Without Bazaar, X1 appears to be a
reputable seller. With Bazaar, the ﬁctitious transactions
do not increase the max-ﬂow ($5) between Z and X1,
thereby preventing the reputation manipulation.

X use one of these identities to conduct a fraud—of no
more than $5, since anything greater would be automat-
ically ﬂagged as potentially fraudulent—the Y ↔ X1
link will have credit put “on hold” and eventually re-
duced (once the buyer provides negative feedback), re-
gardless of which identity X selects as the seller. This is
the case regardless of the number of identities X creates
or how he creates ﬁctitious transactions between them.
In effect, Bazaar forces X to participate in successful
transactions with other non-malicious users in order to
increase his max-ﬂow, and penalizes these links when-
ever X conducts fraud.
4.3.3 Bootstrapping
New users, by deﬁnition, have no transaction history
and therefore have a max-ﬂow of 0 to all other users.
To allow new users to participate without having all
of their transactions ﬂagged as potentially fraudulent,
Bazaar uses two techniques. First, Bazaar allows users
to create virtual links to their real-world friends (in the
same manner as malicious users can create links in the
risk network between their identities by conducting ﬁcti-
tious transactions). This mechanism allows users to ob-
tain a few “starter” links from the friends, without open-
ing a new security vulnerability: Since the user’s friends
are, in effect, vouching for the new user, the friends are
putting their existing links on-the-line. If the new user
defrauds others, not only would his links be penalized,
but the links of his friends would be as well.
Second, if the new user does not have any real-world
friends in the marketplace, Bazaar allows him to option-
ally provide the marketplace operator with an amount of
money to hold in escrow. In return, the marketplace op-
erator creates links between the new user’s identity and
other, random identities with a total value of the amount
in escrow. These newly created links allow the new user
to participate in the marketplace. At some later time,
the new user can request that the escrowed money be
returned (and the marketplace operator will remove the
created links). However, if the created links represent
weight on hold, or if the they have been lost (due to a
fraudulent transaction), the marketplace operator would
refuse to return the escrowed money. This approach does
not open up a new vector for attack, as (a) the most
the new user could defraud is the amount of escrowed
money, and (b) if the user does commit such a fraud, he
would lose his escrowed money. In essence, such an at-
tack would not allow a malicious user to gain any money.
4.4 Guarantees
We now discuss the guarantees that Bazaar provides. In
brief, Bazaar ensures that malicious users can only de-
fraud others up to the total amount of successful transac-
tions that they have participated in with non-malicious
users. To see this, let us imagine a malicious user
X, whose identity has outgoing links with weight to-
taling aX . Each time X conducts a fraudulent transac-
tion, some of his links are reduced, in aggregate, by the
amount that he defrauds. Thus, once X has defrauded
a total of aX , all of his links have been removed and
he is prevented from participating in transactions in the
future. Moreover, X cannot use the “window of oppor-
tunity” (discussed in Section 3) to conduct fraud before
feedback is provided, as Bazaar puts link weights on hold
until the feedback is received.
Moreover, the same analysis holds for any subgraph
or any cut in the network. Thus, collusion between ma-
licious users does not help; the users can only defraud
together for the total of what they could defraud sepa-
rately. This argument also explains why creating fake
identities also does not help, as it is the cut in the net-
work between the user’s identities and the rest of the net-
work that bounds the amount that the user can defraud,
instead of the number of identities the user has or the
amount of ﬁctitious feedback. The upshot is that Bazaar
does not explicitly detect Sybil nodes or malicious users
in the network, rather, it provides a strict guarantee on
the amount of fraud that they are able to conduct.
The implication of this analysis is that we can charac-
terize the amount of fraud the malicious users are able
to conduct, in aggregate. Let us partition the network
in two groups: G, containing non-malicious identities
who do not conduct fraudulent transactions, and M , con-
taining malicious identities whose goal is to defraud oth-
ers. Let us consider the cut in the network between these
two sets, with total value cM G. We make two observa-
tions: First, any links that lie along this cut must repre-
sent non-fraudulent transactions between non-malicious
users and malicious users; in essence, these represent in-
stances where the malicious users were non-malicious.
Second, any time one of the malicious users defrauds a
non-malicious user, this cut is reduced by the amount of
the fraud. Thus, malicious users can only defraud non-
malicious users of up to cM G before the two groups are
partitioned and all of the malicious users’ transactions
are ﬂagged as potentially fraudulent to the non-malicious
users.
It is worth noting that this is a much stronger guar-
antee than what can be provided today. For example,
today, a user can potentially purchase a large amount of
ﬁctitious positive feedback with a low monetary invest-
ment, use that feedback to appear as an non-malicious
seller, and then defraud users of a signiﬁcant amount of
money. This problem is exacerbated by the fact that the
defrauded users have to realize that they have been de-
frauded before they can provide negative feedback and

warn others, leaving a signiﬁcant window of vulnerabil-
ity. Moreover, the malicious user can simply repeat this
process with a new identity. By putting this bound in
place, we are able to force the malicious user to par-
ticipate in valid transactions with non-malicious users,
thereby signiﬁcantly reducing the attractiveness of com-
mitting such a fraud.
4.5 Discussion
We now discuss a few deployment issues with Bazaar.
User interaction The marketplace operator can use the
output of Bazaar in multiple ways. For example, the mar-
ketplace operator can provide strong fraud guarantees by
not allowing ﬂagged transactions to go through. Alterna-
tively, the marketplace operator can require that ﬂagged
transactions use an escrow service or insurance service,
or can more closely scrutinize the transaction. The lat-
ter options represent an additional incentive for the mar-
ketplace operator to deploy Bazaar, as selling additional
services such as escrow or insurance may increase their
revenue while at the same time attracting customers due
to a decrease in fraud.
Providing honest feedback An additional concern is
whether buyers are incentivized to provide honest feed-
back on transactions in Bazaar. First, rational buyers
have no incentive to provide incorrect negative feedback:
By doing so, they penalize their own links and they pre-
vent the creation of a new link between themselves and
the seller. Since having more links is desirable (as it
allows a user to participate in more and higher-valued
transactions), buyers are disincentivized from providing
incorrect negative feedback. Second, rational buyers also
have no incentive to provide incorrect positive feedback.
In particular, if they were unhappy with the transaction,
providing positive feedback creates a new direct link to
the seller; this is likely to be highly undesirable if the
buyer felt defrauded, as it risks the buyer’s existing links .
T argeted attacks Another possible concern is whether
Bazaar introduces a new attack vector by allowing a ma-
licious user to conduct a targeted attack on a seller by
purchasing their goods and then always providing nega-
tive feedback (thereby damaging the seller’s reputation).
First, such an attack is possible in existing marketplaces,
as malicious users can conduct this attack by creating nu-
merous free identities and then purchasing the victim’s
goods. Thus, Bazaar does not open up a new avenue for
attack. Second, we note that Bazaar raises the bar on this
attack, making it more difﬁcult to conduct: With today’s
marketplaces, the malicious users can purchase the vic-
tim’s goods immediately after creating another identity.
With Bazaar, the malicious users must ﬁrst conduct non-
fraudulent transactions in order to obtain enough links
to be able to conduct the attack, making such an attack
signiﬁcantly more difﬁcult and less attractive.
Compromised accounts If a user’s account password is
compromised, an attacker can conduct fraudulent trans-
actions on the user’s behalf, eventually causing the user
to run out of links. However, this attack is not unique
to Bazaar, since attackers could conduct the same attack
with the reputation systems in-use today. Moreover, with
Bazaar, the amount of fraud that can be conducted is still
subject to the Bazaar bounds, whereas without Bazaar, it
is potentially unbounded.
Protecting sellers Bazaar, as described so far, focuses
on protecting buyers from being defrauded by malicious
sellers who manipulate their reputation. However, in cer-
tain marketplaces, it may be necessary to protect sellers
as well (e.g., from buyers who use fraudulent payment
mechanisms like stolen credit cards). We leave protect-
ing sellers to future work, with one comment: The need
to protect sellers is somewhat mitigated by the fact that
marketplace operators generally allow sellers to verify
payment before shipping the good.
Maintaining full network knowledge The design of
Bazaar proposed so far requires knowledge of the com-
plete risk network. This is not an unreasonable assump-
tion, as online marketplaces are generally run by a sin-
gle operator that has full knowledge of all transactions.
Given this information, the marketplace operator can cre-
ate and update the risk network as necessary. It may be
possible to decentralize knowledge of the risk network,
but this remains an open research question and is a sub-
ject of future work. A decentralized system has several
advantages with regards to privacy and scalability, but
as we do not know of any decentralized online market-
places, the path to deploy a decentralized solution is un-
clear.
5 Calculating max-ﬂow using multi-graphs
The Bazaar design described so far relies on ﬁnding the
max-ﬂow path between two nodes in order to calcu-
late the amount of risk embedded in a potential trans-
action. Since the risk network may have large number
nodes and links, ﬁnding the max-ﬂow between nodes us-
ing traditional approaches like Ford-Fulkerson [8] and
Goldberg-Rao [9] may prove to be expensive. Similarly,
pre-computing max-ﬂow values through techniques like
Gomory-Hu Trees [12] may also prove too costly, and are
complicated by the fact that the risk network is chang-
ing over time. Instead, Bazaar uses a novel approach
called multi-graphs in order to reduce the computation
required. In this section, we ﬁrst describe useful obser-
vations on risk networks and of our desired max-ﬂow al-

gorithm, detail the multi-graph data structure, and ﬁnally
demonstrate how multi-graphs reduce the complexity of
ﬁnding max-ﬂow values.
5.1 Observations
We begin by making two observations concerning the
risk networks in online marketplaces and the properties
of the max-ﬂow calculation in Bazaar.
1. Dense core First, like social networks [16], the risk
networks we observe in real-world online market-
places tend to have a dense core, meaning a small
minority of users possess the majority of the links.
Moreover, the higher-valued links (representing risk
relationships with higher values) also tend to fall
in this “core.” As a result, the risk network tends
to shrink rapidly if links with less than a speciﬁed
weight are discarded. We demonstrate this with
real-world data in the following section.
2. Actual max-ﬂow not needed Second, and most im-
portant, Bazaar does not need to actually calculate
the value of the max-ﬂow between a potential buyer
and seller. Instead, Bazaar simply needs to verify
whether the max-ﬂow is above a certain value (i.e.,
the value of the potential transaction). This implies
that the complexity of calculating the max-ﬂow in
Bazaar may not be as high as a general max-ﬂow
calculation.
The multi-graph optimization, described next, leverages
both of these observations in order to reduce the com-
plexity of the max-ﬂow calculation in Bazaar.
5.2 Multi-graphs
Formally, we deﬁne a multi-graph M to be a set of graphs
M = {G0, G1, ..., Gn}
where each graph Gi = ( Vi, Ei). These graphs are re-
lated: First, G0 is deﬁned to be the entire risk network.
Second, Gi is deﬁned to be the subgraph of Gi−1 with
Ei = {e ∈ Ei−1 : w(e) ≥ ki}
Vi = {v : (v, ·) ∈ Ei}
where w(e) represents the weight of edge e and k is a
conﬁgurable system parameter with a suggested value of
2. Thus, the multi-graph contains a series of risk net-
works, where each subsequent network is a subgraph of
the previous containing only those links with an expo-
nentially higher weight. An example of converting a risk
network into a multi-graph is shown in Figure 4.
Figure 4: Conversion of a risk network (left) to a risk
multi-graph (right). Links with higher weights are shown
with thicker lines. Graphs at higher levels in the multi-
graph only include links with exponentially increasing
weights (e.g., with k = 2 , the three levels of the multi-
graph would represent all links, links with weight $2 and
higher, and links with weight $4 and higher).
Note that a multi-graph contains multiple copies of a
given link, the weights of which need to be kept consis-
tent. There are three operations on the risk network under
which Bazaar must maintain consistency:
• Link addition When a new link is added, it is sim-
ply added to all of the graphs to which it belongs
(e.g., if the link weight is w, the link is added to
{Gi : w ≥ ki}).
• Link weight change When the weight of a link
is changed, it is simply added to or removed from
the appropriate graphs. Conceptually, this can be
viewed as removing the link from all graphs, fol-
lowed by adding it back at its new value.
• Link weight temporary adjustment Recall that
Bazaar may temporarily lower the weight of a link
when a transaction is in progress. Conceptually, this
can be viewed as changing the weight of the link.
Later, if the adjustment is undone, this can again be
viewed as a weight change.
5.3 Max-ﬂow on multi-graphs
Now, let us consider what happens when Bazaar calcu-
lates whether a path set of total weight w exists between
a source and destination. With a normal risk network,
Bazaar must use an algorithm like Goldberg-Rao, which
runs over the entire risk network and is optimized to de-
termine the actual max-ﬂow between the source and des-
tination.In contrast, with a multi-graph, Bazaar proceeds
by ﬁrst ﬁnding the highest-weight network Gm where
both the source and the destination are present. Then,
Bazaar runs any existing max-ﬂow algorithm on Gm,
looking for a set of paths of collective weight w. If such a

set is found, then the algorithm returns that set and is ﬁn-
ished. If no such set is found, Bazaar repeats the process
with the next-lowest graph Gm−1. This process contin-
ues until either a set of paths of weight w is found, or
Bazaar cannot ﬁnd such a set of paths in the lowest graph
G0. The latter case indicates that the max-ﬂow in the
original risk network was lower than w, demonstrating
that ﬁnding the max-ﬂow in a multi-graph is guaranteed
to have the same outcome as ﬁnding the max-ﬂow in the
original risk network.
It is worth noting that multi-graphs require an increase
in storage costs, since multiple copies of many links must
be stored. However, as we demonstrate in the evaluation,
the storage requirements of the multi-graphs are modest
and are easily met by today’s computing hardware.
5.4 Beneﬁt of multi-graphs
We now describe how the use of multi-graphs speeds up
the max-ﬂow calculation in Bazaar. Consider the case of
a transaction of value w. First, because of observation
1 above, the sizes of the graphs Gi decrease extremely
rapidly as i increases. Thus, running a max-ﬂow algo-
rithm over Gi is signiﬁcantly faster than running it over
Gi−1. Second, because of observation 2, it is possible to
modify the max-ﬂow algorithm to terminate as soon as it
ﬁnds a path set of weight w, instead of continuing to ﬁnd
the actual max-ﬂow. For example, if we are using Ford-
Fulkerson, only a few rounds may be are needed in order
to ﬁnd a set of paths of weight w. Third, the increasing
link weights in higher Gi further reduce the running time
of the max-ﬂow algorithm, as the path set in higher Gi
is likely to consist of only a few paths. As we demon-
strate in the evaluation, these effects allow multi-graphs
to signiﬁcantly speed up the calculation in practice.
6 Evaluation
In this section, we present an evaluation of Bazaar. In
particular, we use data collected from a real-world on-
line marketplace to determine if the max-ﬂow technique
employed by Bazaar is able to detect and prevent fraud-
ulent transactions. We describe the data collected, verify
our observations in the previous section, demonstrate the
performance gains of using multi-graphs, and present an
evaluation of Bazaar on real-world data.
6.1 Auction data
In order to evaluate Bazaar, we collect data from eBay,
the largest online marketplace. We focus on collect-
ing data from the ebay.co.uk site, containing United
Kingdom auctions.
Category Purchases Users Avg. Price
Clothes 3,311,878 1,436,059 £9.73
Collectibles 940,815 454,773 8.90
Computing 964,925 661,285 21.31
Electronics 861,108 652,350 20.67
Home/Garden 2,795,795 1,426,785 16.57
Total 8,874,521 3,168,455 £14.12
Table 1: Distribution and monetary values of feedback
seen in our trace.
eBay makes the feedback for all users public. Each
piece of feedback consists of the feedback value (posi-
tive, negative, or neutral), the auction the feedback was
for, the identity of the user providing feedback, and a
short message from that user explaining the feedback.
Feedback can be provided by both the buyer and seller, so
each auction can result in two pieces of feedback. eBay
only makes detailed feedback available for 90 days, after
which time, information about the auction the feedback
is for is removed, and only the feedback value, message,
and providing user remain. Thus, we are only able to
collect detailed feedback for the previous 90 days.
eBay provides an API to collect data, but rate limits the
requests to a very low rate. Instead, we use web scrap-
ing to collect data. We start from one user and crawl
their feedback proﬁle. From this proﬁle, we learn about
other users and proceed to crawl them. We continue this
process until we exhaust all known users, effectively per-
forming a breadth-ﬁrst-search of the feedback graph.
In order to make our data collection process tractable,
we only consider auctions and feedback that occur in ﬁve
of the largest auction categories, shown in Table 1. Thus,
we do not crawl other users that appear in the feedback
history if the auction is not in one of these ﬁve categories.
Since eBay allows users to participate in international
transactions, not all users we discover are located in the
United Kingdom. We restrict our crawl to only consider
users located in United Kingdom, leaving us with a to-
tal of 3,168,455 distinct users (note that users may par-
ticipate in multiple categories). Finally, because Bazaar
focuses on protecting buyers from malicious sellers, we
only collect feedback from buyers to sellers (and ignore
feedback from sellers to buyers). In total, our dataset
contains information on 8,874,521 items of feedback.
6.2 Dense core of risk networks
We now turn to validate our observation in Section 5 that
motived our multi-graph design. Speciﬁcally, we exam-
ine whether there tends to be a dense “core” of users
in the risk network, which was necessary for the multi-
graph representation to have acceptable overhead. To do
so, we use a similar approach to prior studies [16] and ex-

 0
 0.25
 0.5
 0.75
 1
 1  10  100  1000
Fraction of Links
Remaining
Link Threshold (£)
clothes
collectibles
computing
electronics
home
 0
 0.25
 0.5
 0.75
 1
Fraction of Remaining
Nodes in Largest SCC
Figure 5: Fraction of links remaining (bottom) and frac-
tion of the remaining nodes in the largest SCC (top) as
only higher-weighted links are considered. Even as the
majority of links are discarded, the largest SCC still con-
tains most nodes, indicating the presence of a core.
amine the subgraph consisting of highly weighted links.
We are interested in both the size and the connectedness
of these subgraphs. Figure 5 shows how these two at-
tributes vary as only higher-weighted links are consid-
ered. As the threshold rises from £1 to £20, almost 80%
of the links are discarded. However, the vast majority of
the remaining nodes are still in the largest strongly con-
nected component (SCC), indicating the presence of a
strong core. For some of the categories, the largest SCC
does not disintegrate until only links of over £100 are
considered. This validates our observation from the pre-
vious section, and indicates that multi-graphs are likely
to speed up Bazaar’s max-ﬂow calculations in practice.
6.3 Multi-graph performance
We now turn to evaluate the beneﬁts of using the multi-
graph representation on the performance of ﬁnding max-
ﬂow paths. Speciﬁcally, we examine the tradeoff be-
tween memory and speed; since multi-graphs store mul-
tiple copies of certain links, they naturally have higher
memory requirements than only using a risk network.
First, we show the number of multi-graph levels and the
resulting memory overhead, relative to the single graph,
of storing a multi-graph in Bazaar in Table 2. As can be
seen from the table, while the relative storage overhead
is a 3- to 4-fold, the absolute overhead is small.
Next, we turn to evaluate the speedup of verifying
whether a max-ﬂow exists using a multi-graph in Bazaar.
To do so, we create separate risk networks from each
of the ﬁve categories by aggregating our feedback trace,
creating links between users who participated in transac-
tions with positive feedback. We then randomly select
Size Overhead
Category (MB) Levels Rel. Abs. (MB)
Clothes 7.38 12 234.6% 17.3
Collectibles 2.01 14 221.0% 4.44
Computing 3.47 13 282.9% 9.83
Electronics 3.23 13 255.9% 8.25
Home/Garden 7.31 13 251.8% 18.4
Table 2: Memory requirements of a single graph repre-
sentation of the risk network, and number of levels and
overhead (both relative and absolute) of a multi-graph
representation, with k = 2.
1,000 pairs of nodes from each category and an amount
from the prices in the observed auction trace. We cal-
culate the time required to verify whether a set of paths
exist with at least the selected auction amount between
the pair of users. For this experiment, we used a machine
with a 2.83 GHz Intel Xeon processor.
Table 3 presents the results of this experiment. Using
the multi-graph representation shows a signiﬁcant per-
formance gain, with speed-ups ranging between 1.92 ×
and 2.86 × . In fact, with the multi-graph, most of the
max-ﬂow calculations take less than 6 seconds to com-
plete. However, most of the calculations that are suc-
cessful (e.g., a set of paths is found with at least the
speciﬁed weight) ﬁnish quickly, while the calculations
that eventually fail (e.g., no such set is found) take much
longer to ﬁnish, thereby inﬂating the average. This trend
is expected since a failure must traverse every graph in
the multigraph, whereas a success has the potential to
end early. This observation suggests a further avenue
for speeding up the max-ﬂow calculation in practice, by
considering calculations that run longer than a speciﬁed
amount of time to have failed. For example, in the Com-
puting category, if all calculations that take longer than
two seconds are considered to have failed, this would
only misclassify 5.5% of the eventually to-succeed cal-
culations, and would lower the average running time
from 1.66 to 0.70 seconds.
Regardless, even without this further optimization, the
average max-ﬂow calculations in the largest category we
examine (Clothes) required 6.29 seconds, meaning that
13,736 calculations could be completed per server per
day. Using our trace, we determined that the highest
number of auctions closing on a single day in this cat-
egory was 80,846, meaning that Bazaar could be de-
ployed in this category by purchasing a server with at
least 6 cores. Of course, synchronization would need to
be maintained to ensure that two cores were not using a
single link at once. We observed, though, that such con-
ﬂicts occur rarely (0.0165% of the time in this category),
implying that parallelism of the max-ﬂow algorithm [1]
is likely to provide signiﬁcant performance gains.

Time (s)
Category Single Multi-graph Speedup
Clothes 18.0 6.29 2.86×
Collectibles 2.53 1.18 2.14×
Computing 3.78 1.66 2.27×
Electronics 2.71 1.41 1.92×
Home/Garden 11.6 5.34 2.15×
Table 3: Average max-ﬂow calculation times, and rela-
tive speedup when using multi-graphs with k = 2.
6.4 Detecting fraud with Bazaar
We now turn to examine how well Bazaar is able to de-
tect fraudulent transactions. In particular, we are inter-
ested in three aspects of Bazaar’s performance: First,
what is the impact on non-malicious users? In other
words, how often are non-malicious users’ transactions
incorrectly ﬂagged as potentially fraudulent? Second, is
Bazaar able to bound the amount of fraud that malicious
users are able to conduct? Third, what impact, in terms
of the amount of fraud prevented, could we expect from
Bazaar if it were deployed on a online marketplace?
To conduct the evaluation, we use a random subset of
80% of the feedback data to create a risk network for
each of the ﬁve categories, and then use the remaining
20% of the feedback data to simulate the operation of
Bazaar. Because our data only represents a 90-day pe-
riod, many of the users participate only in a single trans-
action (and therefore have a max-ﬂow of 0 to all other
users). In order to reduce the bias caused by our short
time-window of data, we only simulate users who we ob-
serve to participate in at least ﬁve transactions during the
time range. Finally, for each data point, we repeat the
experiment 10 times using different random seeds.
To simulate Bazaar, we need a few pieces of informa-
tion from each auction transaction: the identity of the
buyer and seller, the price of the auction, the purchase
and feedback time, and the feedback itself. Our crawled
data unfortunately only contains the purchase time for
54.6% of the data. 5 So, for the auctions where the pur-
chase time is not available, we artiﬁcially select a pur-
chase time by subtracting a random “delay” from the
feedback time. This delay is randomly drawn from the
observed purchase-time-to-feedback-time delay distribu-
tion of the other auctions.
6.4.1 Impact on non-malicious users
Our ﬁrst evaluation examines the potential negative im-
pact that Bazaar has on non-malicious buyers and sellers.
The primary form that such impact takes is incorrectly
5In more detail, the purchase time of ﬁxed-price auctions—wh ere a
user sells multiple, identical items at a ﬁxed price—is not a vailable, as
these auctions have multiple buyers purchasing the items.
Fraction of transactions
Category incorrectly ﬂagged
Clothes 1.11%
Collectibles 1.12%
Computing 3.23%
Electronics 4.68%
Home/Garden 2.43%
Table 4: Fraction of non-fraudulent transactions that are
incorrectly ﬂagged as fraudulent by Bazaar. The fraction
ﬂagged incorrect is never higher than 5%, indicating that
non-malicious users are largely unaffected.
ﬂagging transactions as potentially fraudulent. To de-
termine the frequency with which this happens, we sim-
ulate Bazaar without any malicious users and calculate
the fraction of transactions that had positive feedback
but that would have been ﬂagged by Bazaar due to in-
sufﬁcient max-ﬂow. The results of this experiment are
shown in Table 4, listing the fraction of non-fraudulent
transactions which are ﬂagged as potentially fraudulent
by Bazaar. The results show that no more than 5% of all
non-fraudulent transactions are ﬂagged, indicating that
non-malicious users in Bazaar are largely unaffected.
6.4.2 Blocking malicious users
We now evaluate whether Bazaar is able to bound the
amount of fraud that malicious users can conduct in prac-
tice. Recall that Bazaar guarantees that each user is only
able to conduct fraudulent transactions up to the amount
of non-fraudulent transactions that he has participated in .
Thus, we are interested in comparing how much fraud
malicious users can conduct, relative to the amount of
non-fraudulent transactions they participated in.
To simulate the behavior of malicious users, consistent
with prior studies [22], we randomly select 1% of the
users to be malicious. For each user, we simulate Bazaar
running with other, randomly selected users purchasing
items from the malicious user. We then calculate the total
amount of fraudulent transactions that each user can con-
duct, until the point at which Bazaar ﬂags all transactions
with the malicious user as potentially fraudulent.
Figure 6 presents the results from conducting this ex-
periment, by plotting the amount of fraudulent transac-
tions a malicious user can conduct versus the sum of
the malicious user’s initial links. As can clearly be seen
in the ﬁgure, Bazaar’s bound on the amount of fraudu-
lent transactions holds: the amount of possible fraud is
strictly bounded by the sum of the non-fraudulent trans-
actions that the malicious user has participated in so far. 6
6A careful reader will note that malicious users are sometime s
bounded to less than the actual total of their previous succe ssful trans-
actions. This occurs when, for example, a malicious user is t he only

 1
 10
 100
 1000
 1  10  100  1000
Total Fraud Possible
Before Detection (£)
Total of Previous Successful Transactions (£)
Expected
clothes
collectables
computing
electronics
home
Figure 6: Aggregate amount of fraudulent transactions
that malicious users can conduct versus the aggregate
value of previous successful transactions. Also included
is the expected bound ( y = x). As expected, Bazaar en-
sures that malicious users can only commit fraud up the
amount of successful transactions that they have partici-
pated in previously.
Even if the malicious user whitewashes his account (by
creating a new identity), or conducts a Sybil attack (by
creating multiple identities and linking them by ﬁctitious
transactions), he is unable to conduct any more transac-
tions that are not ﬂagged as potentially fraudulent.
6.4.3 Preventing fraud
As a ﬁnal point of evaluation, we examine the amount of
fraud that Bazaar would prevent, were it to be deployed
on a real-world online marketplace. In other words, what
impact could we expect from Bazaar?
To evaluate this, we use the same 90-day trace from the
ﬁve eBay categories. Then, for each seller, we calculate
the total amount of goods sold with positive feedback,
and the total with negative feedback. Recall that Bazaar
prevents any user from having more (price weighted)
negative feedback than positive feedback, so the auctions
that represent the excess negative feedback would have
been ﬂagged as potentially fraudulent. We therefore cal-
culate the total of this excess, and determine what frac-
tion of the overall negative feedback it represents.
Table 5 presents the results. Bazaar would have
ﬂagged between 29% and 42% of all auctions that re-
sulted in negative feedback as being potentially fraud-
ulent, thereby possibly preventing these auctions from
occurring. While we cannot say that all of these trans-
actions represent fraud (e.g., the negative feedback could
simply represent buyer’s remorse), the fact that these all
come from sellers whose weighted negative feedback is
greater than their weighted positive feedback strongly
suggests so. In total, the auctions that Bazaar would have
prevented represent £164,791.55 worth of goods, signiﬁ-
user that another user is linked to: Even though the maliciou s user’s
total is increased, this link does not increase the max-ﬂow t o any other
users (much in the manner of the X2...X5 identities in Figure 3).
Fraction of all
Category Total ﬂagged negative feedback
Clothes £28,291.34 29.9%
Collectibles 4,995.04 38.2%
Computing 48,742.66 39.7%
Electronics 34,476.87 42.6%
Home/Garden 47,285.64 32.4%
Total £164,791.55 36.0%
Table 5: Total number of auctions with negative feed-
back that would be ﬂagged as potentially fraudulent,
and the fraction of all auctions with negative feedback
that this represents. Overall, Bazaar would have ﬂagged
£164,791.55 worth of auctions that eventually resulted in
negative feedback, representing 36% of all such auctions.
cantly bolstering the reliability of the online marketplace.
Moreover, this amount is only for a 90-day period in the
ﬁve categories we study; the amount is likely to be sig-
niﬁcantly higher if Bazaar were deployed on the entire
marketplace and over a longer period of time.
7 Related work
Researchers have previously studied approaches to de-
tecting auction fraud, usually relying on machine-
learning techniques [4, 18] based on bidding behavior.
While these techniques succeed at detecting some fraud-
ulent users, they rely on characteristics of malicious be-
havior. As a result, unlike Bazaar, these approaches do
not provide a bound on the amount of fraud any user can
conduct. Additionally, researchers have developed tech-
niques [14, 21] to detect shill bidding, where users con-
spire with others to artiﬁcially inﬂate the selling price of
their auctions. Bazaar is complementary to this work, as
it is not concerned with shill bidding, but rather, fraud
caused by reputation manipulation.
Other work [5, 10] has examined building reputations
based on social relationships between users. While some
of the techniques used are similar to Bazaar, Bazaar must
determine pairs of trusting users itself (instead of as-
suming pairwise trust is externally provided). This in-
troduces signiﬁcant challenges, but enables Bazaar to be
deployed on existing sites.
There is also signiﬁcant work that studies the network
formed by users who trust each other, and a number of
research systems have already been proposed to lever-
age this trust. Perhaps the most well known of these are
the PGP web of trust [27] and the Advagato trust met-
ric [2]. However, these systems are generally concerned
with providing a stronger notion of identity, instead of
bounding the amount of malicious activity.
More generally, recent work has focused on detecting
Sybil accounts using social networks [6, 25, 26]. These

approaches are not directly applicable to online market-
places for two reasons: First, they assume the existence
of a social network that is not necessarily present, and
second, they only bound the number of Sybil accounts
that are admitted, not on the amount of fraud that mali-
cious users can conduct. Thus, even with Sybil detection
algorithms, malicious users are still able to conspire to
arbitrarily inﬂate each others’ reputations.
Like other work [22], Bazaar uses a mechanism that
is loosely based on the one used in Ostra [17], a system
that uses a social network to block senders of unwanted
communication. However, Bazaar differs from Ostra in
three important ways. First, while Ostra is based on a rel-
atively stable, unweighted social network, Bazaar uses a
weighted risk network that is changing with every trans-
action (e.g., links are added and removed, and the links
weights can grow and shrink over time). Second, Os-
tra assumes the trust network is given from an external
source, while Bazaar constructs the risk network dur-
ing the operation of the system. This requires Bazaar
to face additional challenges, as malicious users are able
to create links by participating in transactions (this is no t
possible in Ostra, as Ostra’s assumption is simply that
links to non-malicious users take effort to form and main-
tain). Third, Bazaar works by calculating the max-ﬂow
in the risk network, instead of simply ﬁnding a single
path (as in Ostra). This induces signiﬁcant engineering
challenges and results in a system with a different set of
guarantees.
8 Conclusion
In this paper, we presented Bazaar, a system that
strengthens user reputations in online marketplaces.
Bazaar is based on max-ﬂow calculations over a risk
network, a data structure that encodes the amount of
rewarded shared risk between participants. Using data
on over 8 million purchases from a real-world online
marketplace, we demonstrated that Bazaar is able to ef-
fectively bound the fraud that malicious users are able
to conduct, while only rarely impacting the transactions
conducted between non-malicious users.
Given the popularity of online marketplaces and the
large amount of fraud that such marketplaces currently
experience, our hope is that Bazaar can be used as a drop-
in component on real-world sites. Bazaar is designed to
be readily applied to such marketplaces.
Acknowledgements
We thank the anonymous reviewers, Peter Druschel,
Lakshmi Subramanian, Bimal Viswanath, and our shep-
herd, Dina Katabi, for their helpful comments. This re-
search was supported in part by NSF grant IIS-0964465
and an Amazon Web Services in Education Grant.
References
[1] R. J. Anderson and J. Setubal. On the parallel implementa tion of
Goldberg’s maximum ﬂow algorithm. SPAA, 1992.
[2] Advagato Trust Metric. http://www.advogato.org/
trust-metric.html.
[3] Amazon Merchants and Marketplace. http://www.
amazonservices.com/content/sell-on-amazon .
[4] D. H. Chau, S. P , and C. Faloutsos. Detecting fraudulent p erson-
alities in networks of online auctioneers. PKDD, 2006.
[5] D. DeFigueiredo and E. T. Barr. TrustDavis: A Non-Exploi table
Online Reputation System. CEC, 2005.
[6] G. Danezis and P . Mittal. SybilInfer: Detecting Sybil No des using
Social Networks. NDSS, 2009.
[7] J. Douceur. The Sybil Attack. IPTPS, 2002.
[8] L. R. Ford and D. R. Fulkerson. Maximal ﬂow through a netwo rk.
Can. J. Math., 8, 1956.
[9] A. Goldberg and S. Rao. Flows in Undirected Unit Capacity Net-
works. FOCS, 1997.
[10] A. Ghosh, M. Mahdian, D. Reeves, D. Pennock, and R. Fugge r.
Mechanism Design on Trust Networks. WINE, 2007.
[11] D. G. Gregg and J. E. Scott. The Role of Reputation System s
in Reducing on-Line Auction Fraud. Int. J. Elec. Comm. , 10(3),
2006.
[12] R. E. Gomory and T.C. Hu. Multi-Terminal Network Flows.
SIAM, 9(4), 1961.
[13] D. Houser and J. Wooders. Reputation in Auctions: Theor y, and
Evidence from eBay. Econ. Strat., 15, 2006.
[14] R. J. Kauffman and C. A. Wood. Running up the bid: Detecti ng,
predicting, and preventing reserve price shilling in onlin e auc-
tions. ICEC, 2003.
[15] D. Lucking-Reiley, D. Bryan, N. Prasad, and D. Reeves. P ennies
from eBay: The determinants of price in online auctions. Indus.
Econ., 55(2), 2007.
[16] A. Mislove, M. Marcon, K. P . Gummadi, P . Druschel, and B.
Bhattacharjee. Measurement and Analysis of Online Social N et-
works. IMC, 2007.
[17] A. Mislove, A. Post, K. P . Gummadi, and P . Druschel. Ostr a:
Leverging trust to thwart unwanted communication. NSDI, 2008.
[18] S. Pandit, D. H. Chau, S. Wang, and C. Faloutsos. Netprob e:
a fast and scalable system for fraud detection in online auct ion
networks. WWW, 2007.
[19] P . Resnick and R. Zeckhauser. Trust Among Strangers in I nternet
Transactions: Empirical Analysis of eBay’s Reputation Sys tem.
The Economics of the Internet and E-Commerce , volume 11, El-
sevier Science, 2002.
[20] B. Sullivan. Man arrested in huge eBay fraud. 2003. http:
//www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3078461/.
[21] H. S. Shah, N. R. Joshi, A. Sureka, and P . R. Wurman. Minin g
eBay: Bidding strategies and shill detection. W ebKDD, 2002.
[22] N. Tran, B. Min, J. Li, and L. Subramanian. Sybil-Resili ent On-
line Content V oting. NSDI, 2009.
[23] L. von Ahn, M. Blum, N. Hopper, and J. Langford. CAPTCHA:
Using Hard AI Problems for Security. EuroCrypt, 2003.
[24] J. Weaver. How a bold eBay scam was tracked to South Flori da.
The Miami Herald, 2010.
[25] H. Y u, P . B. Gibbons, M. Kaminsky, and F. Xiao. SybilLimi t:
A Near-Optimal Social Network Defense Against Sybil Attack s.
IEEE S&P, 2008.
[26] H. Y u, M. Kaminsky, P . B. Gibbons, and A. Flaxman. Sybil-
Guard: Defending Against Sybil Attacks via Social Networks .
SIGCOMM, 2006.
[27] P . R. Zimmermann. The Ofﬁcial PGP User’s Guide . MIT Press,
1994.