Ranked Accuracy and Unstructured Distributed
Search
Sami Richardson and Ingemar J. Cox
Dept. of Computer Science, University College London, UK
{sami.richardson.10,i.cox}@ucl.ac.uk
Abstract. Non-uniformly distributing documents in an unstructured
peer-to-peer (P2P) network has been shown to improve both the ex-
pected search length and search accuracy , where accuracy is deﬁned as
the size of the intersection of the doc uments retrieved by a constrained,
probabilistic search and the documents that would have been retrieved
by an exhaustive search, normalized by the size of the latter. How-
ever neither metric considers the relative ranking of the documents in
the retrieved sets. We therefore introduce a new performance metric,
rank-accuracy, that is a rank weighted score of the top- k documents re-
trieved. By replicating documents across nodes based on their retrieval
rate (a function of query frequency), and rank, we show that average
rank-accuracy can be improved. The practical performance of rank-aware
search is demonstrated using a simulated network of 10,000 nodes and
queries drawn from a Yahoo! web search log.
Keywords: Unstructured P2P Network, Probabilistic Retrieval.
1I n t r o d u c t i o n
Peer-to-peer (P2P) network architectur es can be grouped into the categories
of structured, unstructured, or a hybrid combination of the two. In this paper
we are concerned with the search of unstructured networks, where documents
are distributed randomly across nodes. To guarantee ﬁnding a document it is
necessary to visit every node. In practice, it is usually only feasible to visit a small
subset of nodes, and therefore search is probabilistic. Previous work developed a
theoretical framework known as probably approximately correct (PAC) search to
model this problem [1]. It assumes that (i) nodes operate independently, without
communicating with each other, (ii) each node indexes a subset of documents
from the collection, (iii) the documents indexed are not disjoint across nodes,
i.e. each document may be indexed on more than one node, and (iv) a query is
performed by sampling a random subset of nodes and combining the results.
An advantage of PAC search is that each node can operate autonomously.
This means there is very little communication overhead between nodes and the
failure of individual nodes has a limited e ﬀect on others. A disadvantage is lower
performance when compared to determini stic systems using the same resources.
This disadvantage forms the basis for measuring a key performance indicator of
P. Serdyukov et al. (Eds.): ECIR 2013, LNCS 7814, pp. 171–182, 2013.
c© Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013

172 S. Richardson and I.J. Cox
a PAC information retrieval (I R) system. Speciﬁcally, the accuracy of a PAC
system is deﬁned as the size of the intersection of the documents retrieved by
ac o n s t r a i n e d ,p r o b a b i l i s t i cs e a r c ha n dt h ed o c u m e n t st h a tw o u l dh a v eb e e n
retrieved by an exhaustive search, normalized by the size of the latter. Other
performance indicators include expected search length, bandwidth and storage
requirements, which are outside the scope of this paper.
Note that the accuracy is independent of the IR model. This is intentional, as
PAC accuracy is intended to only measure the performance degradation caused
by not searching over the entire collection. Thus, it is fundamentally di ﬀerent
to standard information retrieval metr ics in two ways. First, the PAC accuracy
does not consider the relevance of documents, but simply measures what fraction
of documents will, on average, be retrieved when searching over a random subset
of the collection, where it is assumed that the retrieval model is the same for
both deterministic and probabilistic search. This assumption may not always be
valid, particularly since retrieval models often require statistics of the document
collection that may be unavailable to individual peers in a network. In such a
case, the PAC accuracy can be considered an upper bound on performance. The
second di ﬀerence is that PAC accuracy ignores the rank order of the retrieved
documents. Thus, for example, a PAC system that retrieves the top 50% of
relevant documents has the same accura cy as a PAC system that retrieves the
bottom 50% of relevant documents. However, from a user-perspective, the latter
system would be judged to perform much worse than the former.
The importance of rank order in user perception of IR system performance
is well known and a number of performan ce measures have been proposed, e.g.
DCG [2] and RBP [3]. In this paper we modify the deﬁnition of PAC accuracy
to account for a document’s rank, and we refer to this as PAC rank-accuracy.
Equations are provided to predict rank-accuracy.
Prior work, discussed in Sect. 2, has sh own that the accuracy of P2P search can
be signiﬁcantly improved by replicating documents non-uniformly over the net-
work, based on the popularity of queries, i.e. the query distribution. We extend
this work by replicating documents based on their retrieval rate and associated
rank. We experimentally demonstrate that such a replication policy signiﬁcantly
improves the rank-accuracy of PAC search.
In Sect. 3 we present our new rank-aware search framework and propose a
weighting scheme derived from a rank bia sed precision metric. The theoretical
performance of rank-aware PAC search is evaluated in Sect. 4, and in Sect. 5 ex-
perimental results from simulations are presented. Finally, in Sect. 6 conclusions
are drawn on the value of rank-aware PAC search and areas for future work are
identiﬁed.
2R e l a t e d W o r k
Evaluation of P2P IR systems typically focuses both on information retrieval
(IR) performance, as well as system performance measured by such factors as
communication bandwidth and latency [4 ,5]. These latter measures are beyond

Ranked Accuracy and Unstructured Distributed Search 173
the scope of this paper. A straightforward way to measure IR performance for
a P2P system is to compare the results to those that would be obtained from a
centralized one. This is the approach taken by Neumann et al. [4] in producing a
standardized benchmark framework for P2P systems, as well as Lue and Callan
[6] to measure the performance of a hybrid P2P network. It is also the basis for
PAC accuracy.
The above measures score documents equally, no matter where they appear
in the result list. It is now widely acknowledged that taking into account the
rank of documents in the result list can better model human perception. A
number of rank-aware measures of IR performance have been proposed, including
discounted cumulative gain (DCG) [2], and rank-biased precision (RBP) [3].
These two measures use the position model [7], which assumes a user will click
on a search result if it is both relevan ta n di ft h eu s e rh a se x a m i n e di t ,w h e r e
the probability of examination reduces the further down the list the result is.
The cascade model is more sophisticated, and additionally takes into account
the relevance of documents seen so far. Expected reciprocal rank (ERR) [8] is
an example of a metric based on the cascade model.
The average ranked relative recall (ARRR) [9] and mean average overlap preci-
sion (MAOP) [10] measures are speciﬁcally designed to evaluate the e ﬀectiveness
of P2P IR search, taking rank into account. They do so by comparing results to
those that would have been obtained from ac e n t r a l i z e ds y s t e m ,a n dt h e r e f o r e
are not reliant on human relevance judg ements. The measure of rank-accuracy
we present in this paper has a similar purpose to ARRR and MAOP, but is more
ﬂexible because it allows any weight to be assigned to a rank. It is also a natural
extension to the PAC framework and is amenable to similar theoretical analysis.
We investigate how rank-accuracy can be increased by the non-uniform repli-
cation of documents across nodes. Cohen and Shenker [11] looked at di ﬀerent
object replication policies to minimize the expected search length to ﬁnd an ob-
ject. They found that replicating objects across nodes in proportion to query rate
did not, as might be expected, have an e ﬀect on average expected search length.
Instead, replicating in proportion to the square root of query rate was found to
be optimal. The P AC framework analyses a similar problem, but assumes a ﬁxed
search length. It was found that square root replication is not optimal, and a
more complicated solution was derived us ing a convex optimization method [12].
Rank-aware replication is di ﬀerent to this earlier work on replication because in
addition to document popularity, it also takes rank into account.
3R a n k - A c c u r a c y
We assume an idealized network where all nodes operate correctly and there is
no malicious behavior, as did the original work on PAC search. Node failures and
security threats are important issues in P2P networks, but are beyond the scope
of this paper. It is assumed there are n homogenous nodes in the network, there
are m distinct documents in the coll ection and each node can store ρ documents.
The total storage capacity of the network is R.Q u e r i e sa r es e n tt oz randomly

174 S. Richardson and I.J. Cox
selected nodes, and relevant documents are combined and ranked to form a top- k
result list. There are ri copies of each document di replicated across nodes, such
that ∑ m
i=1 ri = R.M u l t i p l ec o p i e so ft h es a m ed o c u m e n ta r en o ta l l o w e do nt h e
same node.
The probability of ﬁnding c copies of a document di is binomially distributed
and given by
P (c)=
(z
c
)(ri
n
)c (
1 − ri
n
)z− c
. (1)
It was shown in [1] that the probability P (di)o fﬁ n d i n ga tl e a s to n ec o p yo f
document di is
P (di)=1 −
(
1 − ri
n
)z
. (2)
In information retrieval typically there is not a simple one-to-one correspondence
between query and documents. Instead, multiple documents of varying relevance
can be retrieved and combined into a top- k list. We deﬁne rank-accuracy as a
measure of correctness for the top- k result set for a query. Let Dk(j)b et h es e to f
top-k documents retrieved for query j from an exhaustive search of all nodes, and
D′k(j)b et h es e tr e t r i e v e df r o ma constrained search of z nodes. A weight wj (i)
is assigned to each document di in Dk(j). The weight wj (i) is a function of the
rank of document di in Dk(j), such that ∑
di∈Dk (j) wj (i) = 1. Various functions
for wj (i) are possible and are discussed in Sect. 3.1. The rank-accuracy aj for
query j is then deﬁned as
aj =
∑
di∈D′k (j)
wj (i) . (3)
This can be compared to the rank-unaware accuracy measure for PAC search,
which is deﬁned [1] as
aj = |Dk(j) ∩ D′k(j)|
|Dk(j)| . (4)
If documents are assigned equal weights, so that wj (i)= 1
k , then it is easy to see
that (3) and (4) are equivalent .T h ee x p e c t e dr a n k - a c c u r a c yE(aj )f o raq u e r y
j is given by
E(aj )=
∑
di∈Dk (j)
P (di)wj (i)=
∑
di∈Dk (j)
(
1 −
(
1 − ri
n
)z )
wj (i) . (5)
It follows that the average expected rank-accuracy A (when averaged over all
queries), is
A =
∑
j
qj E(aj )=
∑
j
qj
∑
di∈Dk (j)
(
1 −
(
1 − ri
n
)z )
wj (i)( 6 )
where qj is the query rate of query j,s u c ht h a t∑
j qj = 1. For equal weighting,
where wj (i)= 1
k ,E q u a t i o n s( 5 )a n d( 6 )a r ee q u i v a l e n tt ot h o s ed e r i v e di n[ 1 2 ]
for PAC search.

Ranked Accuracy and Unstructured Distributed Search 175
3.1 Rank W eightings
As discussed in Sect. 2, a number of techniques have been proposed to evaluate
the quality of ranked top- k search results. Metrics such as nDCG and RBP assign
greater weighting to documents appearing nearer the top of the result list, since
these are assumed to be more important to the user. We propose using the same
idea to assign weights for measuring ran k-accuracy. In this paper we consider
a weighting scheme derived from RBP [3]. Any scheme is possible, but RBP is
suﬃ cient to demonstrate the potential performance of rank-aware PAC search.
For an RBP-like scheme, weighting W for a document at rank y is given by
W =( 1 − p) · py− 1 (7)
where p models the persistence of the user and represents the probability that a
user will go on to examine the next result in the list. This scheme can be used to
assign values for wj (i). It has been shown that a value of p of around 0.6 or 0.7
is a reasonable approximation of user behavior [8]. RBP assigns greater weights
to documents higher in the result list, and this skew increases as p decreases.
For a system where do cuments are replic ated across nodes without regard to
rank, average expected rank-accuracy A as given by (6) is una ﬀected by the
weighting scheme. However, we shall see in the following section that A can
be increased by using a replication policy that takes the ranked-weighting into
account.
3.2 Rank-Aware Replication
For a given weighting scheme, we would like to choose a replication rate ri to
maximize A in (6). A simple, but sub-optimal policy is uniform replication. This
involves distributing all documents onto the same number of nodes, so that ri is
given by
ri = R
m . (8)
For PAC search it was shown in [12] th at average expected accuracy can be
increased beyond that of uniform replication by replicating each document in
proportion to its retrieval rate. A further improvement can be achieved by repli-
cating in proportion to the square root of retrieval rate. Both policies increase
average expected accuracy by increasing the replication of the more popular doc-
uments, although this is at the expense of the less popular documents. Here we
propose similar techniques to boost rank- accuracy, but instead of basing repli-
cation on retrieval rate, we use weighte dr e t r i e v a lr a t e ,w h e r et h ew e i g h t i n gi s
determined by a document’s rank in the top- k lists from exhaustive searches of
all nodes. The intuition is that this will result in popular highly ranked doc-
uments being replicated more than popular documents that are ranked worse,
and thus the average expected rank-accuracy, A will be improved. In practice, a
representative query load may be unavailable to compute the required document
distribution, but in a simulation in Sect. 5 we show that gains in rank-accuracy
can still be achieved by replicating documents as queries are made.

176 S. Richardson and I.J. Cox
We develop the rank-aware replication mo del by ﬁrst deﬁning an auxiliary set
V that holds the weighted retrieval rate for each document, di, in the collection.
Assuming the number of queries Q is ﬁnite, which is true in a limited period of
time, then for each vi ∈ V,w eh a v e
vi =
Q∑
j=1
qj · ζ(j, i) · wj (i)( 9 )
where
ζ(j, i)=
{
1 if document i is in query j’s top-k result list.
0 otherwise. (10)
We can replicate a do cument, di in proportion to its corresponding weighted
retrieval rate, vi or in proportion to the square root of vi, in analogy with
the replication policies proposed by Cohen and Shenker [11]. For rank-aware
proportional replication, ri is given by
ri = R vi
∑
i vi
(11)
and for rank-aware square root replication, ri is given by
ri = R
√
vi
∑
i
√
vi
. (12)
It should be noted that these replication policies are restricted by the number of
nodes n in the network. If (11) or (12) yields a value of ri greater than n,t h e n
ri is set to n and the unused capacity is allocated to the remaining documents.
In Sect. 4 we shall see that (11) and (12) can achieve higher average expected
rank-accuracy, A than uniform replication, but neither is optimal. We can ﬁnd
the optimum replication rate using a similar approach to [12]. To begin, (6) is
expressed in closed form:
A =
∑
j
qj
∑
i
(
1 −
(
1 − ri
n
)z )
· ζ(j, i) · wj (i)
=
∑
i
(
1 −
(
1 − ri
n
)z )∑
j
qj · ζ(j, i) · wj (i)
=
∑
i
vi
(
1 −
(
1 − ri
n
)z )
. (13)
Since ri can only take integer values, ﬁnding the distribution of ri to maximize
A is an integer programming problem. An approximate solution to this problem
was provided in [12] for PAC search using convex optimization, and we utilize
the same solution here. The only di ﬀerence is that vi,h e r eg i v e nb y( 9 ) ,i n c l u d e s
the weighting term wj (i). Since the working is lengthy, we refer the reader to
[12]. The solution yields
ri = n − n(b′− 1) − R′
∑ b′− 1
1 v
− 1
z− 1
i
· v
1
z− 1
i (14)

Ranked Accuracy and Unstructured Distributed Search 177
where R′ = R − m + b′− 1a n d b′ is an auxiliary variable chosen to enforce
minimum and maximum values of ri.
4T h e o r e t i c a l A n a l y s i s
We now evaluate the theoretical e ﬀect of the rank-aware replication policies on
rank-accuracy. In our analysis we assume there are n =1 0 , 000 nodes. Each
node stores ρ =5 0 0d o c u m e n t s ,a n dt h e r ea r em =4 7 , 480 distinct documents.
Documents are replicated randomly acros s nodes according to the replication
policy under test. It is assumed there are 4 , 748 distinct queries that obey an
inverse power law. The query rate qj of query j is given by 1
c j− θ,w h e r ec is a
normalization constant so that ∑
j qj =1 .W es e t θ =0 .7 and the total volume
of queries to 10,000. Studies have found that queries to web search engines
typically follow such an inverse power law distribution, with exponent θ ranging
between 0.7 and 1.5 [13]. Here we assume ea ch query returns a top-10 result list
that is disjoint i.e. each document only appears in the result list of one query,
although each query may be repeated multiple times. Under this assumption it
is easy to calculate the expected rank-a ccuracy for each query from (5), since
the retrieval rate of each of the documents in the top-10 is simply the rate of the
query. Using the RBP weighting scheme as given by (7), we compare the e ﬀect
on rank-accuracy of di ﬀerent replication policies.
Figure 1 shows the e ﬀect of the query power law exponent θ on average ex-
pected rank-accuracy A,a sg i v e nb y( 6 ) ,f o rt h r e ed iﬀerent RBP weightings, i.e.
p =0 .3, 0.6 and 0.9. It is assumed that the query is sent to z =1 0 0n o d e s .
There are a number of observation to be made. First, the more skewed the rank
weighting, e.g. p =0 .3, the more pronounced is the gain in rank-accuracy for a
rank-aware policy over the rank-unaware one. Conversely, when the rank weights
are much less skewed, e.g. p =0 .9, i.e. there is a 90% probability that the user will
look at the next document, the gain is much less. This is to be expected. Impor-
tantly, for rank weights set by p =0 .6, a value that was found to model typical
user behavior, we observe signiﬁcant im provements in rank -accuracy. Second, as
the query distribution becomes more skewed, i.e. as θ becomes large, we observe
that the performance di ﬀerence across the various replication policies signiﬁ-
cantly decreases. This too is to be expected, as for very heavily skewed query
distributions, rank-accuracy is dominated by just a few very popular queries
and their corresponding result sets. Nevertheless, for θ values between 0.7 and
about 1.25, and for p =0 .6, we observe signiﬁcant di ﬀerences across the various
replication policies. Third, we note that even for a uniform query distribution,
i.e. θ = 0, all three sub-ﬁgures show a signiﬁcant improvement in rank-accuracy
when documents are replicated by one of the three rank-aware replication poli-
cies, i.e. r-prop, r-sqrt and r-opt. In contrast, replicating based on a rank-unaware
policy for θ = 0 produces no beneﬁt over a simple uniform distribution of docu-
ments. That rank-accuracy improves for rank-aware replication policies even for
a uniform query distribution is at ﬁrst curious. However, this is due to our as-
sumption that the top-10 query result lists are disjoint. Thus, 10% of documents

178 S. Richardson and I.J. Cox
have a rank of 1, 10% have a rank of 2, etc. Consequently, the 10% of documents
with a rank of 1 are replicated more, than the 10% ranked at 2, and so on. As
ar e s u l t ,t h er a n k - a c c u r a c yi si m p r o v e deven for a uniform query distribution.
Finally, we observe that in general a rank-aware replication policy based on the
square root of weighted retrieval rate, r-sqrt,p e r f o r m sb e t t e rt h a nar a n k - a w a r e
proportional policy, r-prop,a n dt h a tt h eo p t i m a lr a n k - a w a r ep o l i c y ,r-opt always
performs best.
0 0.5 1 1.50.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
θ
A
sqrt
prop uniform
r−opt
r−prop
r−sqrt
(a) p =0 .3
0 0.5 1 1.50.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
θ
A
r−opt
r−sqrt
r−prop
sqrt
prop uniform
(b) p =0 .6
0 0.5 1 1.50.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
θ
A
prop uniform
sqrt
r−sqrt
r−opt
r−prop
(c) p =0 .9
Fig. 1. The e ﬀect of query power law exponent θ and di ﬀerent replication policies on
average expected rank-accuracy A,u s i n gR B Pw e i g h t i n gw i t h( a )p =0 .3( b )p =0 .6( c )
p =0 .9. In addition to uniform, there are curves for rank-unaware replication policies
proportional ( prop), square root ( sqrt), as well as rank-aware policies for proportional
(r-prop), square root ( r-sqrt)a n do p t i m a l(r-opt). For parameters n =1 0, 000, ρ =5 0 0 ,
m =4 7, 480, z =1 0 0 .
We also consider performance for individual queries. An inverse power law
query distribution with exponent θ =0 .7 is assumed. Figure 2 shows the ex-
pected rank-accuracy E(aj )f o re a c hq u e r yj, as given by (5) for p =0 .6. For the
few most popular queries, we observe that a rank-unaware proportional repli-
cation policy, prop,a c t u a l l yp r o v i d e st h eb e s te x pected rank-accuracy. However
this gain comes at a signiﬁcant expense - many more queries perform worse than
a uniform distribution (horizontal line in ﬁgure). This indicates that documents
retrieved by the most popular queries w ere replicated more than for other poli-
cies, but at the expense of less replication for other documents. The rank-unaware
square root policy, sqrt,e x h i b i t ss i m i l a rp r o b l e m s ,t h o u g hl e s sp r o n o u n c e dt h a n
the rank-unaware proportional policy. In general, all three rank-aware policies
perform better, with the square-root policy , r-sqrt, being superior to the propor-
tional policy, r-prop. The optimum rank-aware policy, r-opt,e x h i b i t st h eb e s t
performance, with all queries having better rank-accuracy than for a uniform
replication policy.
5E x p e r i m e n t a l R e s u l t s
In order to conﬁrm the preced ing theoretical analysis ,w ep e r f o r m e dt h r e es i m -
ulations on a network of n =1 0 , 000 nodes. Each of the experiments progres-

Ranked Accuracy and Unstructured Distributed Search 179
1000 2000 3000 4000 50000.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
query id j
E(aj)
r−opt
prop
r−prop
sqrt
r−sqrt
uniform
Fig. 2. Expected rank-accuracy E(aj )f o re a c hq u e r y j using RBP weighting with
p =0 .6. In addition to uniform, there are curves for rank-unaware replication policies
proportional ( prop), square root ( sqrt), as well as rank-aware policies for proportional
(r-prop), square root ( r-sqrt)a n do p t i m a l(r-opt). For parameters n =1 0, 000, ρ =5 0 0 ,
m =4 7, 480, z =1 0 0a n d θ =0 .7.
sively modeled a more realistic scenario. The results presented here are for rank-
accuracy measured using an R BP weighting scheme with p =0 .3, 0.6, 0.9. Both
rank-unaware and rank-aware proportional replication policies were tested, with
the rank-aware policy using the same weighting scheme as used for measuring
rank-accuracy. Due to lack of space we do not include results for the square root
and optimal replication policies, although rank-accuracy for both these policies
can be improved when rank-aware replication is used.
For Exp eriment 1, we assumed a rather artiﬁcial environment that exactly mod-
els the theoretical assumptions above. S peciﬁcally , we assumed (i) prior knowl-
edge of the query distribution, (ii) the retrieval results (top-10) for each distinct
query are disjoint, (iii) the global top-10 result list for each query is known and
can be used by the replication policy, and (iv) the appropriate document repli-
cation, i.e. prop or r-prop, has been performed prior to performing the searches.
We used a do cument collection of size m =4 7 , 480. Each document was repre-
sented by an identiﬁer, and these were distributed across nodes according to the
replication policy under test. Each node stored ρ =5 0 0d o c u m e n t s .F o re a c ha r -
tiﬁcial query we assigned a random top-10 set of document identiﬁers to act as
the global result set that would be found from an exhaustive search of all nodes.
These sets were disjoint. We issued 10 , 000 queries, 4 , 748 of which were distinct.
The queries followed a power-law distribution with θ =0 .7. Each query was is-
sued to z = 100 randomly selected nodes. Each node returned the subset of docu-
ment identiﬁers present in its index that matched the corresponding identiﬁers in
the query’s associated global result set. These subsets were combined at the query
node to form a single ranked result list for the query. This list was used to compute
the rank-accuracy for the search. These results were then averaged across all the
10,000 issued queries to produce a single average rank-accuracy score. The average

180 S. Richardson and I.J. Cox
rank-accuracies produced by the simulation for rank-unaware / rank-aware poli-
cies were 0.71/0.93, 0.71/0.83, 0.71/0.72 for p =0 .3, 0.6, 0.9r e s p e c t i v e l y ,w h i c h
correspond to increases of 31.0%, 16.9%, 1.4%. These results show that for all val-
ues of p,a v e r a g er a n k - a c c u r a c yi si n c r e a s e dwhen rank-aware replication is used.
The improvements are greater the lower the value of p.T h ei m p r o v e m e n t sc l o s e l y
match the theoretical results predicted in Fig. 1 for θ =0 .7.
For Experiment 2, queries were drawn from a Yahoo! web search log [14].
For each query there is an anonymized query identiﬁer along with anonymized
document identiﬁers corresponding to each of the ranked top-10 documents dis-
played to the user. The ﬁrst 1 , 000, 000 queries were used for the simulations.
From the results of each query, m =4 6 1, 788 distinct document identiﬁers were
extracted and used to represent the document collection. Each node had a stor-
age capacity of ρ =1 , 500 document identiﬁers, giving a total network storage
capacity of R =1 5 , 000, 000. In this simulation, the result sets were no longer
disjoint. However, we still assumed (i) the global top-10 result list for each query
is known and can be used by the replication policy, and (ii) the appropriate docu-
ment replication has been performed prior to performing the searches. The aver-
age rank-accuracies produced by the simulation for rank-unaware / rank-aware
policies were 0.72/0.86, 0.69/0.76, 0.64/0.65 for p =0 .3, 0.6, 0.9r e s p e c t i v e l y ,
which correspond to increases of 19.4%, 10.1% and 1.6%. As with Experiment 1,
rank-aware replication increased aver age rank-accuracy, with the improvement
greater for lower values of p. However, the improvements were not as large as
with Experiment 1. This can be attributed to the more skewed Yahoo! query
distribution. The Yahoo! queries exhibited an approximate power law distribu-
tion with θ ≈ 0.7, but there were more extremely popular queries than for the
ﬁrst simulation. Interestingly, as p decreased, average rank -accuracy increased
for rank-unaware replication. This is not predicted by the theoretical model or
found in the previous simulation, and is due to a small correlation between rank
and the number of queries a document is relevant to.
For Experiment 3, we used the same parameters as Experiment 2, but no
longer assumed (i) the global top-10 result list for each query is known and can
be used by the replication policy, and (ii) the appropriate document replication
has been performed prior to performing th es e a r c h e s .I n s t e a d ,d o c u m e n t sw e r e
initially uniformly randomly distributed across nodes. On retrieving the top-
10 documents for a query (which may only be a subset of the global top-10
documents that would have been found from searching all n nodes), the querying
node replicated the documents onto up to 20 other nodes in accordance with the
rank-unaware / rank-aware policy. As queries were performed, the distribution
of documents moved away from uniform towards rank-unaware / rank-aware
proportional. The values of average rank-accuracy produced by the simulation
for rank-unaware / rank-aware policies were 0.62/0.78, 0.58/0.69, 0.54/0.56 for
p =0 .3, 0.6, 0.9 respectively, which correspond to increases of 25.8%, 19.0%
and 3.7%. Overall, average rank-accuracy for all policies was lower than for
Experiment 2. This is expected because r ank-unaware / rank-aware proportional
replication is only approximated.

Ranked Accuracy and Unstructured Distributed Search 181
6C o n c l u s i o n s a n d F u t u r e W o r k
Evaluation of IR performance in unstructured P2P architectures often considers
the proportion of documents retrieved in comparison to an exhaustive search.
The PAC framework uses such a measure to model probabilistic search. However,
it does not consider the rank order of the documents in the result set, despite
the fact that the rank order is known to signiﬁcantly a ﬀect user perception of IR
performance. T o address this, we propos ed a rank-weighted measure of accuracy.
The weighting can follow one of the many rank-based evaluation metrics, e.g.
DCG, RBP.
Previous work has shown that the expected search length and the rank-
unaware accuracy can be signiﬁcantly improved by replicating documents non-
uniformly based on the query distribution. Building on this work, we proposed a
rank-aware replication policy to increase rank-accuracy, replicating documents
across nodes based on retrieval rate, but weighted by their corresponding rank
in queries.
We analyzed the performance of an RBP-like scheme that assigned a greater
weighting to documents appearing nearer the top of the result list. Theoretical
modeling showed that rank-aware replication can achieve higher rank-accuracy
when averaged over all queries than the rank-unaware replication of PAC. This
improvement was greater the more skewed the weighting scheme and the less
skewed the query distribution. An idealized simulation conﬁrmed our theoreti-
cal analysis. We also ran simulations using real queries drawn from the Yahoo!
web search engine. When documents wer e distributed based on prior knowl-
edge of the query distribution, average rank-accuracy was increased by 19.4%,
10.1% and 1.6% for RBP with p =0 .3, 0.6, 0.9, when compared to rank-unaware
replication. When no prior knowledge of the query distribution was assumed,
and documents were distributed as queries were made, both rank-unaware and
rank-aware replication achieved lower absolute values of rank-accuracy. However,
rank-aware outperformed rank-unaware replication by 25.8%, 19.0% and 3.7%
for p =0 .3, 0.6, 0.9. We would expect greater improvement for a less skewed
query distribution. In practice, for a large-scale system with a large document
collection and a huge number of queries, it may be infeasible to compute the re-
quired document distribution based on prior queries. Therefore, in future work
we intend to build upon the technique used in Experiment 3 and investigate fur-
ther how a rank-aware distribution of documents can be achieved by replicating
documents as queries are made.
Acknowledgements. Sami Richardson was supported by EPSRC grant no.
EP/G037264/1 (Security Science Doctoral Training Centre).
References
1. Cox, I.J., Fu, R., Hansen, L.K.: Probably Approximately Correct Search. In:
Azzopardi, L., Kazai, G., Robertson, S., R¨ uger, S., Shokouhi, M., Song, D., Yilmaz,
E. (eds.) ICTIR 2009. LNCS, vol. 5766, pp. 2–16. Springer, Heidelberg (2009)

182 S. Richardson and I.J. Cox
2. J¨ arvelin, K., Kek¨ al¨ainen, J.: Cumulated gain-based evaluation of IR techniques.
ACM Trans. Inf. Syst. 20(4), 422–446 (2002)
3. Mo ﬀat, A., Zobel, J.: Rank-biased precision for measurement of retrieval e ﬀective-
ness. ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS) 27(1), 2 (2008)
4. Neumann, T., Bender, M., Michel, S., Weikum, G.: A reproducible benchmark for
P2P retrieval. In: Proc. ACM Wkshp. Exp. DB (2006)
5. Yang, Y., Dunlap, R., Rexroad, M., Cooper, B.: Performance of full text search
in structured and unstructured peer-to-peer systems. In: IEEE INFOCOM,
pp. 2658–2669 (2006)
6. Lu, J., Callan, J.: Content-based retrieval in hybrid peer-to-peer networks. In:
CIKM 2003: Proceedings of the 12th International conference on Information and
Knowledge Management, New Orleans, LA, USA (2003)
7. Craswell, N., Zoeter, O., Taylor, M., Ramsey, B.: An experimental comparison of
click position-bias models. In: Proceedings of the International Conference on Web
Search and Web Data Mining, pp. 87–94. ACM (2008)
8. Chapelle, O., Metlzer, D., Zhang, Y., Grinspan, P.: Expected reciprocal rank for
graded relevance. In: Proceedings of the 18th ACM Conference on Information and
Knowledge Management, pp. 621–630. ACM (2009)
9. Witschel, H., Holz, F., Heinrich, G., Teresniak, S.: An Evaluation Measure for Dis-
tributed Information Retrieval Systems. In: Macdonald, C., Ounis, I., Plachouras,
V., Ruthven, I., White, R.W. (eds.) ECIR 2008. LNCS, vol. 4956, pp. 607–611.
Springer, Heidelberg (2008)
10. Lu, J., Callan, J.: User modeling for full-text federated search in peer-to-peer net-
works. In: SIGIR 2006: Proceedings of the 29th International ACM SIGIR Con-
ference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, Seattle, W A, USA
(2006)
11. Cohen, E., Shenker, S.: Replication strategies in unstructured peer-to-peer net-
works. In: Proceedings of the 2002 Conference on Applications, Technologies, Archi-
tectures, and Protocols for Computer Communications, pp. 177–190. ACM (2002)
12. Fu, R.: The quality of probabilistic search in unstructured distributed information
retrieval systems. PhD thesis, University College London (2012)
13. Baeza-Yates, R., Gionis, A., Junqueira, F., Murdock, V., Silvestri, F.: The impact
of caching on search engines. In: Proceedings of the 30th Annual International
ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands, July 23-27, ACM (2007)
14. Yahoo!: Yahoo! webscope dataset anonymized Yahoo! search logs with relevance
judgments version 1.0, http://labs.yahoo.com/Academic_Relations