Measuring Freenet in the Wild:
Censorship-resilience under Observation
Stefanie Roos†, Benjamin Schiller‡, Stefan Hacker‡, Thorsten Strufe†
†Technische Universität Dresden,<firstname.lastname>@tu-dresden.de
‡Technische Universität Darmstadt,<lastname>@cs.tu-darmstadt.de
Abstract. Freenet, a fully decentralized publication systemdesigned for
censorship-resistant communication, exhibits long delays and low success
rates for ﬁnding and retrieving content. In order to improve its perfor-
mance, an in-depth understanding of the deployed system is required.
Therefore, we performed an extensive measurement study accompanied
by a code analysis to identify bottlenecks of the existing algorithms and
obtained a realistic user model for the improvement and evaluation of
new algorithms.
Our results show that 1) the current topology control mechanisms are
suboptimalforroutingand2)Freenetisusedbyseveraltensofthousands
of users who exhibit uncharacteristically long online times in comparison
to other P2P systems.
1 Introduction
Systems that allow users to communicate anonymously, and to publish data
without fear of retribution, have become ever more popular in the light of re-
cent events1. Freenet [1–3] is a widely deployed completely decentralized system
focusing on anonymity and censorship-resilience. In its basic version, the Open-
net mode, it provides sender and receiver anonymity but establishes connections
between the devices of untrusted users. In the Darknet mode, nodes only con-
nect to nodes of trusted parties. Freenet aims to achieve fast message delivery
over short routes by arranging nodes in routable small-world network. However,
Freenet’s performance has been found to be insuﬃcient, exhibiting long delays
and frequent routing failures [4].
In this paper, we investigate the reasons for the unsatisfactory performance
of the deployed Freenet. The evaluation of Freenet so far has mainly been based
on theoretical analyses and simulations, relying on vague assumptions about the
user behavior. Such analytical or simulative user models, however, often diﬀer
signiﬁcantly fromreality.Weconsequentlymeasuredthe deployedsystem toshed
light on two critical points. First, we analyzed the topology of Freenet and its
impact on the routing performance. In particular, we considered the neighbor
selection in the Opennet and the interaction between Opennet and Darknet.
1 http://www.theguardian.com/world/the-nsa-files

2
Secondly, we measured the user behavior in Freenet with regard to number of
users, churn behavior, and ﬁle popularity.
Our results indicate that the real-world topology diﬀers largely from the
assumptions made in the design, thus identifying a potential reason for the lack
of performance. Over a period of 8 weeks, we discovered close 60,000 unique
Freenet installations. With respect to their online behavior, the Freenet users
exhibit a medium session length of more than 90 minutes, which is slightly
longer than in other Peer-to-Peer systems. The session length distribution can
be well modeled by a lognormal distribution and a Weibull distribution.
The results were obtained using both passive and active large-scale monitor-
ing adapted to deal with the speciﬁc constraints of the Freenet protocol. They
provide new insights into the actual workings of Freenet and can be used to
design improved algorithms.
2 Background
In this Section, we introduce Freenet and present related work on measurements
in P2P systems in general.
2.1 F reenet
Freenet was originally advertised as a censorship-resilient publication system [1,
2], referred to as Opennet. During the last years, the system has been extended
to include a membership-concealing Darknet [3], where connections are only
established to trusted users. Furthermore, the functionalities of Freenet have
been extended beyond simple publication of content: Freesites, complete web-
sites hosted in Freenet, oﬀer the possibility to store and retrieve vast amounts
of information2. An instant messaging system3 and an email system4 have been
built on top of Freenet as well. All of these components use the same application-
independentalgorithmsandprotocolsforstoring,ﬁnding,andretrievingcontent,
which are discussed in the following. First, we explain how users and ﬁles are
identiﬁed in Freenet. Afterwards, we discuss how data is stored and retrieved,
before detailing how the topology of Opennet and Darknet is created. Our de-
scriptions are based upon [1,2] for the Opennet, and [3] for the Darknet, as well
as on the source code at the time of the respective measurement.
In Freenet, users and ﬁles are identiﬁed and veriﬁed using cryptographic keys.
A user’s public and private key are created upon initialization of her node and
used to sign published ﬁles. In addition, each node has a location, i.e., a key
from the key space that ﬁles are mapped to. In analogy to a peer’s identiﬁer in
a distributed hash table, Freenet nodes are responsible for storing ﬁles whose
key is close to their location. For ﬁles, various keys exist that all share the
same key space derived from the SHA-1 hash function: The content hash key
2 https://wiki.freenetproject.org/Freesite
3 https://freenetproject.org/frost.html
4 https://freenetproject.org/freemail.html

3
(CHK) is the hash of the ﬁle itself and can be used for checking its integrity.
Keyword signed keys (KSKs) are the hash of a descriptive human-readable string
enabling keyword searches. The signed subspace key (SSK) contains the author’s
signature for validating a ﬁle’s origin. Recently,SSKs are often replaced by
updateable subspace keys (USKs), which allow versioning of ﬁles. Public keys,
required for the validation of signatures, can be obtained directly from the owner
or from Freenet indexes, i.e., Freesites that provide lists of publicly available ﬁles,
their descriptions, and keys.
File storage, discovery, and retrieval is based on a deterministic routing
scheme, a distance-directed depth-ﬁrst search. Unless a node can answer a re-
quest, it forwards the message to its neighbor whose location is closest to the
target key. Each request is identiﬁed by a random message ID enabling nodes to
detect and prevent loops. In case a node cannot forward the message to another
neighbor, backtracking is applied (see [1]).
During a storage request, the ﬁle is stored by any node on the path whose
location is closer to the ﬁle key than any of its neighbors, by the last node on
the path, and by any node that was online for at least20 hours during the
last two days. When a ﬁle is found, it is sent back to the requesting node on
the inverse path. The contact information of the responding node is added but
probabilistically changed by any node on the path to conceal the origin’s address.
This should provide plausible deniablility, i.e., uncertainty which node actually
provided the ﬁle.
In Opennet and Darknet, the overlay topology is established diﬀerently.
Opennet nodes send join requests to publicly known seed nodes that forward
the request based on the joining node’s location. The endpoints of such requests
can be added as neighbors. The maximum number of neighbors depends on a
node’s bandwidth. Binding the degree of a node to the bandwidth provides an
incentive to contribute more bandwidth because high-degree nodes receive a bet-
ter performance on average.5. Based on their performance in answering requests,
neighbors can also be dropped to make room for new ones. In the Darknet mode,
nodes only connect to trusted contacts, which have to be added manually. In-
stead of accepting new neighbors with close locations, Darknet nodes adapt their
location to establish a better embedding into the key space [5]. Both the neigh-
bor selection in Opennet and the location adaption in Darknet are supposed to
structure the network such that the probability to have a neighbor at distance
d scales with 1/d for d≥c> 0 for some constantc. The design is motivated by
Kleinberg’s model: Nodes are arranged in am-dimensional lattice with short-
range links to those closest on the lattice. Furthermore, nodes at distancex are
chosen aslong-range contacts with a probability proportional to1/dr. Kleinberg
showed that the routing is of polylog complexity if and only ifr =m equals the
number of dimensions [6]. Consequently, a distance distribution between neigh-
bors that asymptotically scales with1/d would be optimal for the 1-dimensional
namespace of Freenet.
5 https://wiki.freenetproject.org/Configuring_Freenet#Connecting_to_the_
Opennet

4
2.2 Related W ork
Most scientiﬁc publications on Freenet focus on the performance [5,7] and at-
tack resilience [8–10] of the routing algorithm. Their evaluations are based on
theoretical analysis, simulations, and small-sized testbeds. The simulations in
the original paper are based upon rather unrealistic assumptions such as no or
uniform node churn, uniform content popularity, and uniform storage capaci-
ties [1,3]. So far, only two measurement studies have been performed in the real
system, both with a rather small scope: The ﬁrst, conducted in 2004, was an
18 days passive monitoring of the connection duration between neighbors. The
average observed connection time was 34 seconds, indicating that Freenet nodes
frequently change neighbors [11]. The second study, aiming at an estimation of
Freenet’s network size, was performed in 2009. For measurement purposes, 80
Freenet nodes were inserted into the network. These nodes were then manip-
ulated to drop and establish new connections at a higher rate to increase the
number of discovered nodes. During80 hours of measurements, 11, 000 unique
node location were found. The number of concurrently online nodes was mea-
sured to be between2, 000 and 3, 000 [4]. Hence, measurements on Freent so far
are outdated and focus on single aspects of the protocol or user behavior only.
The results are too general to suggest improvements and provide an accurate
churn model for evaluating them. Alternative designs to Freenet for anonymous
or membership-concealing P2P systems have been discussed in [4,12–14]. How-
ever, they have not been widely deployed or rely on unstructured systems, which
do not allow eﬃcient resource discovery.
In contrast, there is vast related work on measurements in P2P systems in
general. We brieﬂy summarize their results regarding the user behavior in order
to compare Freenet users to users of large-scale ﬁle-sharing networks without
enhancedsecurityprotocols.Themostfrequentlystudiedaspectsofsuchsystems
are network size and churn. For the latter, the session length, i.e., the time a
node stays online at a time, is of particular interest. The network size is usually
determined by counting all nodes encountered during a certain time period. A
subset of these nodes is then regularly contacted to track their online time and
then derive a churn model from the observed data. How such a concept can be
realized highly depends on the system under observation. In Freenet, contacting
arbitrary nodes other than a node’s direct neighbors is not possible. Hence,
existing approaches can not be applied directly and are thus not discussed here
in detail. The churn behavior of users has been measured in most large-scale P2P
systems, in particular Napster [15], Gnutella [15], FastTrack [16], Overnet [17],
Bittorrent [18,19], and KAD [20,21]. The observed median session length lies
between 1 minute and 1 hour [22]. Measurements indicate that the shape of the
session length distribution resembles a power-law: Exponential [18], Pareto [23],
Weibull [21], and lognormal [21] distributions have been ﬁtted. Our results show
that the Freenet session length can be ﬁtted reasonably well to a lognormal
distribution, but the median online time is slightly higher than in all existing
measurements of P2P-based systems.

5
3 Methodology
The data required for addressing most questions could be obtained using passive
monitoring, i.e., using nodes that only observe the system and output additional
log information. The analysis of users’ churn behavior required us to perform
active monitoring, i.e., running instrumented nodes that periodically request
information.
We used Freenet version1407 for all measurements prior to August 2012,
version 1410 for measurements in September and October 2012, version1442
for measurements in Spring 2013 and version1457 for all later measurements6.
In the remainder of this Section, we detail the two diﬀerent monitoring ap-
proaches and describe how we extracted the desired information from the col-
lected logs.
Locationsofmonitoringnodeswerechosenuniformlyatrandomunlessstated
otherwise.Moresophisticatedplacementstrategieswouldrequireadditionalknowl-
edge of the global topology, which is not straightforward to obtain. The number
of monitoring nodes varies over the experiments, depending both on the type
of the measurement (e.g. local samples vs. global information needed) and the
available resources at the time.
3.1 Passive Monitoring
We applied passive monitoring by inserting a setM of monitoring nodes in
the network. They executed the normal code and followed the protocol like any
regular node. We extended the Freenet logging mechanism to store all messages
sent to and received from other nodes. The logged data allowed us to observe
all changes in the neighborhood as well as all requests and the corresponding
replies passing through these monitoring nodes.
Passive monitoring was used to collect data for the analysis of the neighbor
selection, for determining the network size and the origin of users, for investi-
gating ﬁle popularity and user activity, and for analyzing the impact of parallel
Darknets.
Distance and Degree Distribution : The goal was to ﬁnd out if the distances
betweenneighborsintheoverlayactuallyfollowthedistributionfromKleinberg’s
model [6]. In addition, we measured the degree distribution, which inﬂuences the
routing success observed in the system.
Upon establishing a connection, nodes provide each other with their own lo-
cation and the locations of their neighbors. Whenever the neighborhood changes,
all neighbors are informed of the change. Hence, by logging all such messages,
we obtained the degree of all neighbors of monitoring nodes and the distances
between them and their neighbors. Denote the measurement duration byT. We
took snapshots of the neighborhood of our monitoring nodes eacht time units.
6 https://github.com/freenet/fred-staging/releases

6
Let Gk = (Vk,Ek) be a snapshot aftert·k minutes for k = 0 ...K with
K =⌊T/t⌋. The node setVk consisted of our monitoring nodesM, the neighbors
of nodes inM, and their neighbors. The subgraphGk was induced, i.e., the edge
set Ek consisted of all edges between nodes inVk. We determined the empirical
distance distribution of neighbors as the weighted average over all snapshots. Let
l(e) be the distance between the endpoints of edgee. Recall that for any set A,
the indicator function1A(x) is 1 if x∈ A and 0 otherwise. Then the empirical
distance distribution ˆL was computed by
P ( ˆL≤x) =
K∑
k=0
∑
e∈Ek
1[−∞,x)(l(e))
∑K
k=0|Ek|
. (1)
When obtaining the degree distribution, our own nodes might not represent
a good sample for the average user with regard to bandwidth and uptime. Since
both inﬂuence the degree of a node, we only considered the setsNk(m)\M
of neighbors ofm∈ M at time t·k. Let deg(v) denote the degree of a node
v. Analogously to the distance distribution, the empirical degree distribution of
neighbors ˆD′ was then obtained as7
P ( ˆD′ =x) =
K∑
k=0
∑
m∈M
∑
v∈Nk(m)\M
1x(deg(v))∑K
k=0
∑
m∈M|Nk(m)|
. (2)
Then, note the probability of being a neighbor of a node is proportional to the
degree of a node. If the degree distribution of the network isD, the degree
distribution D′ of randomly chosen neighbors is given by
P (D′ =x) = xP (D =x)
E(D) . (3)
Our measurements provided the empirical degree distribution of neighborsˆD′.
So an empirical degree distributionˆD was obtained by solving a system of linear
equations based on Eq. 3. Letdm denote the maximal observed degree. The
system of linear equations consisted ofdm + 1 equations withdm + 1 variables
P ( ˆD =x) for x = 1...d m and E( ˆD). The ﬁrstdm equations were derived from
transforming Eq. 3 toxP (D =x)−P (D′ =x)E(D) = 0. The last equation used
that ˆD is a probability distribution, so that∑dm
x=1P ( ˆD = x) = 1 . The system
of equations thus could be solved using Gaussian elimination.
Darknet : In order to evaluate the impact of small Darknets with few links into
the Opennet, we manually created a Darknet topology consisting of10 nodes.
These nodes were connected in a ring topology of which 4 nodes established
a connection to a monitoring nodem that participated in the Opennet. The
node m logs all ﬁle requests and the corresponding responses that pass through
7 It is intended that nodes in the intersection of two neighborhoods are counted mul-
tiple times in order to obtainˆD from ˆD′

7
it. Based on the logs, we then distinguish between requests forwarded into the
Opennet bym and requests forwarded into the Darknet. The diﬀerence of the
success rate between forwarding to Opennet and to Darknet nodes then indicates
the impact of such small Darknets.
Network Size and User Origin : We logged Freenet locations, IP addresses and
ports of the Opennet neighbors of monitoring nodes. Each Opennet node is
uniquely characterized by a persistent location, in contrast to Darknet nodes,
which change location in order to adapt to the topology. For the Opennet, we
hence uniquely identify Freenet instances by their location. Note that a user
participating with multiple instances is counted several times. In contrast to the
location, the IP address of a user changes over time. Furthermore, a Freenet
node might advertise several IP port combinations. We logged the IP address
only for obtaining the geolocation of users, not as an identifying feature.
Popularity Analysis :Allrequestsforﬁlesseenbyamonitoringnodewerelogged,
in particular the routing key of each ﬁle. We then obtained a popularity score for
a keyk by dividing the number of requests fork by the total number of requests.
3.2 Active Monitoring
We used active monitoring for tracking the online times of nodes. In the active
mode,monitoringnodesperiodicallysentmessagesintothenetworktodetermine
if a certain node is online. This approach allowed us to determine to what extend
it is possible to track a user’s online time in Freenet. Also, we established a
churn model for Freenet users including session length, intersession length, and
connectivity factor.
Up to September 2012, using messages of typeFNPRoutedPing allowed us
to query for nodes by their location. The message is routed through the net-
work like any normal request. If a node with the speciﬁed location is found, a
reply is sent back to the requester. From September 2012, information about
nodes outside of the second neighborhood could only be obtained by using the
FNPRHProbeRequest. As a reply to this message, one speciﬁed information, e.g.
the location or the uptime, about a random node from the network is returned.
The node is chosen by executing an random walk with Metropolis-Hastings cor-
rection for 18 hops, so that every node should be selected close to uniformly at
random 8. Note that the message typeFNPRoutedPing clearly allowed track-
ing of nodes, whereas FNPRHProbeRequest abolishes the possibility to query
for a speciﬁc node. Hence, we also show that tracking is possible withFNPRH-
ProbeRequest, a message that is still supported by the current Freenet version
(1459).
In both approaches, we estimated the session startsS(u) and endpointsE(u)
of a nodeu based on our measurements. From these sets, we characterized churn
behavior as follows: Letsj(u) andej(u) denote thej-th smallest element inS(u)
8 https://wiki.freenetproject.org/index.php?title=FCPv2/ProbeRequest

8
andE(u), respectively. The total time of the measurement wasT. The length of
thej-th session of nodeu was then computed assessj(u) = ej(u)−sj(u) given
thatu is online for at leastj sessions. Similarly, thej-th intersession length was
computed asinterj(u) = sj+1(u)−ej(u). Session and intersession length provide
information on the reliability of nodes and the amount of maintenance required
to keep the structure of the network intact. The connectivity factor of a nodeu is
then deﬁned as the fraction of timeu was online, i.e.,conn(u) =
∑|S(u)|
j=1 sessj (u)
T .
The connectivity factor is decisive for determining how often a ﬁle is available
at a node. Moreover, we analyzed the number of nodes in the network to see if
there are diurnal patterns. The fraction of online nodes for each point in timet
and set of observed nodesQ are given byf (t) = |{u∈Q:∃j:sj (u)≤t,ej (u)≥t}|
|Q| .
Using FNPRoutedPing The methodology usingFNPRoutedPing was to ﬁrst
collect locations of nodes and then ping each of those locations everyX time-
units. However, pings are routed within the Freenet network and are thus not
guaranteed to ﬁnd a node even if it is online. We solved this problem by pinging
a node multiple times from diﬀerent monitoring nodes. The maximal number
of pings per node was chosen empirically such that the probability that a node
would answer at least one of our pings was found to be suﬃciently high.
We hence conducted the measurement as follows: First, we distributed our
monitoringM equally in the key space, i.e., at locationsi/|M| fori = 0... |M|−
1.Wedivided nnodestopinginsetsofsize n/|M|.Every X timeunits,eachmon-
itoring node pingedn/|M| nodes and reported to a central server, which nodes
had answered the requests. Nodes that had not been found were rescheduled to
be pinged by a diﬀerent monitoring node. After a node had been unsuccessfully
pinged byk monitors, it was considered to be oﬄine.k was chosen empirical by
pinging our own monitoring and choosingk such that an online node would be
detected with probability at leastp9. We obtained the session starts and ends
from the logged data as follows: The total time of our measurement was divided
into K intervals I1,...,I K of length X. For any nodeu, we determined a se-
quence of boolean valueson0(u),on 1(u),...,on K(u),onK+1(u), so thatoni(u)
is true ifu has been detected in intervali = 1 ...K and oni(u) = false for
i = 0,K + 1. Then S(u) consisted of the start times of all intervals in which
u was discovered but has not been discovered in the proceeding interval, i.e.,
S(u) = {(i− 1)X : i∈{ 1,...K },oni(u) = true,oni−1 = false}. Analogously,
E(u) ={iX :i∈{ 1,...K },oni(u) = true,oni+1 =false}.
Using FNPRHProbeRequest The methodology using FNPRHProbeRequest
was to send a large number of requests for node locations into the network from
diﬀerent locations and gather all replies together with a timestamp. A node was
considered oﬄine if no reply from it had been received for at least timeτ.
9 We are aware that the estimation is only valid under the assumption that our mon-
itoring nodes are representative for all nodes.

9
Moreprecisely,weobtainedanorderedset R(u) ={r1(u),...,r |R(u)|(u)}with
ri(u)∈ [0,T ] of reply dates for each user/locationu. The start of a session was
assumed to be the ﬁrst time a node had replied after not replying forτ timeunits,
i.e., S(u) = {ri(u)∈ R(u) : i = 1 or ri(u)−ri−1(u)≥ τ}. Analogously, the
end of a session was deﬁned as the point in time of the last received reply
E(u) = {ri(u) ∈ R(u) : i = |R(u)| or ri+1(u)−ri(u) ≥ τ}. For choosing
a suitable value for τ, let req be the number of answered requests per time
unit. Assuming that indeed all nodes are selected with equal probability, the
probability that a node does not respond to any of thereq·τ (p) requests is
given by
1−p = (1− 1/n)req·τ (p) (4)
for a network ofn nodes. p∈{ 0.9, 0.925, 0.95, 0.975, 0.99, 0.999} was used. A
lowp indicates that the probability to accidentally cut one session into multiple
session is high, in particular for long sessions. With increasingp, the probability
to merge multiple sessions into one increases as well.
3.3 Data Set and Privacy
Our research was conducted in agreement with the German Federal Data Protec-
tion Act (in particular §28 and §40). In order to protect the privacy of Freenet’s
users, we carefully made sure to erase all identifying information from our col-
lected data after computing the necessary statistics. The collected IP addresses
were the potential link between Freenet users and their real-world identity. Note
that the IP addresses were only required for obtaining the geolocation and the
count of diverse IPs, and were deleted afterwards. We did not record the IP ad-
dress in our database for all remaining measurements, in particular the tracking
of users was done solely based on their Freenet location, which is unrelated to
the real-world identity. The recorded data is available upon request.
4 Topology Characteristics
In this Section, we present the results regarding the distance and degree distri-
bution of the Opennet. Using simulations, we then show that Freenet’s current
ID selection fails to provide the desired routing performance. Finally, we discuss
the impact that separate Darknets attached to the main Opennet topology have
on the routing quality of the overall system.
4.1 Distance and Degree Distribution
The number of hops, also called the routing length, needed to discover a ﬁle is
essential for the performance of a P2P system. It is mainly inﬂuenced by the
number of neighbors a node has and the locations of these neighbors in the key
space.

10
The distance distribution between neighbors is supposed to be close to Klein-
berg’s model. However, nodes connect to those answering requests independently
of their location, so that we would rather expect the distance between neighbors
to be distributed uniformly at random. The degree distribution is directly related
to the bandwidth of the nodes, i.e., a higher degree should correspond to a high
bandwidth. The degree distribution of neighbors is expected to show nodes with
a degree above average, since they are more likely to be selected as neighbors.
Setup: The data for this analysis was obtained from a two week measurement
in May 2013 using 12 instrumented Freenet clients.
Results: Figure 1a shows the cumulative distance distribution observed in our
measurements in comparison to the function1/d ford> 0.01. Indeed, each node
had a high number of close neighbors. However, contacts at distance exceeding
0.05seemedtobechosenuniformlyatrandom,asindicatedbythelinearincrease
of the distribution function.
With regard to the degree distribution, there are several peaks in the degree
distribution around 13, 50, 75 and 100 (cf. Figure 1b). Indeed, these seem to
correspond to typical bandwidth, e.g. for 2 Mbit/s 100 neighbors are allowed.
Note that we observed nodes with a degree of up to 800, but nodes with a degree
of more than 100 make up less than 1 %. Nodes with a degree of less than 10
are likely to be in the start-up phase since by default a node is allowed at least
14 neighbors.
Discussion: We have seen that nodes have a high number of close neighbors.
These are probably found by announcements sent via the seed nodes and routed
towards a node’s own location. However, the long-range contacts are chosen
uniformly at random, i.e., with a probability proportional to1
d0 rather than with
probability of 1
d1. The routing cost when nodes are connected independently of
their locations is of ordern2/3 [6].
4.2 Simulation study of F reenet’s routing performance
To illustrate the impact of our previous derivation, we performed a simulation
study of the Freenet routing algorithm.
Setup: We generated a ring topology with15, 000 nodes corresponding to the
network size estimated in Section 5.1. Each node was assigned a random location
in [0, 1), corresponding to Freenet’s key space. Each node was connected to the
k closest nodes on the ring. In addition, for each node a random integerl was
chosen according to the empirical degree distribution we observed in the Freenet
network. The node was then givend =max{l−2k, 0} long-range contacts chosen
proportional to 1/dr for r = 0 (independent of the distance as in Freenet) and
r = 1 (anti-proportional to the distance suggested by Kleinberg).

11
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
 0.9
 1
 0  0.05  0.1  0.15  0.2  0.25  0.3  0.35  0.4  0.45  0.5
P(D <= x)
Distance D
Measurement
Kleinberg
(a) Distance
 0
 0.01
 0.02
 0.03
 0.04
 0.05
 0.06
 0.07
 0.08
 0.09
 0  20  40  60  80  100
P(K <= x)
Degree K
Degree
Degree of Neighbor (b) Degree
Fig.1: Distance Distribution of neighbors, Degree Distribution, and the Degree
Distribution of neighbors
Reults: The average routing length was less than13 hops for an optimal distance
distribution (r = 1), but 37.17 hops forr = 0, i.e., the distance distribution we
found in Freenet. When connecting each node to the3 closest nodes on the ring,
i.e.,k = 3, the average routing length forr = 0 decreased to28 because progress
was made using the additional short-range links, but the average routing length
for r = 1 increased by 30% to 17 hops. These results show that Freenet’s per-
formance can be drastically improved by, e.g., dropping and adding connections
based on the distance of node identiﬁers. A Kademlia-like bucket system [24]
could be used to achieve the desired distance distribution while still allowing a
wide choice of neighbors. So, the decision of dropping a neighbor can be made
both on its performance and its location. The number of buckets of the number
of contacts per bucket and hence the degree can be chosen dependent on the
bandwidth a node contributes to the system, in order to retain this incentive of
the current neighbor selection scheme. An alternative approach can be to include
Opennet in the location swapping algorithm used by Darknet nodes, which has
been shown to achieve a Kleinberg-like distance distribution in [5] for a static
network. An in-depth simulation study is required to give concrete guidelines.
4.3 Darknet
We expected that requests forwarded into the Darknet would fail more frequently
because the Opennet node responsible for the requested key is not topologically
close to Darknet nodes with similar locations.
Setup: The measurement was conducted for a duration of 140 hours in April
2014. We manually set up a small Darknet consisting of 10 nodes and connected
two of these nodes to one monitoring node in the Opennet.
Results: Intotal,themonitoringnodereceived 3, 540, 000requestsandforwarded
47.94% into the Darknetnet. While 8.46% of the requests forwarded into the

12
Opennet were successful, only 0.08% of the Darknet requests returned the re-
quested resource. Overall, only4.4% of the requests forwarded by the monitor
were successful.
Discussion: The performance decrease only considers requests forwarded via
our monitoring node, and thus the impact of one small Darknet on the overall
performance is low. However, we have seen that forwarding messages into the
Darknet can clearly decrease the success rates if Darknet and Opennet are only
connected by one link. If such Darknets exist in large numbers, they might
be partly responsible for low success rate of Freenet routing. Including Opennet
nodes into the location swapping can potentially solve the problem of parallel ID
spaces, but as stated a detailed study is needed to show if the overall performance
is actually improved.
5 User Behavior
In this Section, we present the results of our measurements in Freenet concerning
the actual network size, origin of nodes, churn behavior and ﬁle popularity.
5.1 Network Size and Origin
Weexpectedto discovera fewthousandof concurrentlyonline nodes,asobserved
in earlier measurements [4]. As the main goal of Freenet is to provide censorship-
resilience, we also expected to ﬁnd users from countries where either Internet
censorship is applied or at least heavily discussed. While in the ﬁrst case, services
such as Tor [25] or Freenet are needed to retrieve the desired content, the use of
anonymous and censorship-resilient communication might be increased due to a
heightened awareness of potential privacy breaches in the second case.
Setup: Our measurements were conducted for 8 weeks in June to August 2012
using 55 instrumented Freenet clients.
Results: During the eight week measurement period, we observed a total of
58, 571 unique locations. The number of distinct IP addresses was102, 376. Most
locations were discovered during the ﬁrst two weeks, afterwards only one or two
new locations were found most days. On some days, however, several tens of
new locations were discovered within one hour. The sudden increase was proba-
bly due to measurement activities by other institutions. Excluding these bursts,
we see a convergence in the number of discovered locations, indicating that we
were aware of most active Freenet clients. The observed diﬀerence between the
number of locations and IPs is explained by the frequent use of non-static IPs.
While the increase in discovered IPs is largest in the ﬁrst days, the numbers
grow constantly throughout the measurement, as can be expected if active users
regularly change their IP. In addition, nodes can advertise more than one IP
address at a time. Whereas the majority of nodes (84.4%) had only a single IP

13
0k
2k
4k
6k
8k
10k
12k
14k
US
DE
GB
FR
JP
RU
BR
AU
CA
PL
IT
ES
 NL
MX
SE
BE
PH
IN
GR
FI
CN
AT
CH
DK
UA
PT
TH
AR
IE
NO
Number of nodes
Country
Fig.2: Distribution of Freenet nodes
over countries
p τ (p) θ(qi(p)): mean,min,max
0.900 3:27 0.993,0.989,0.996
0.925 3:53 0.993,0.989,0.996
0.950 4:29 0.992,0.989,0.995
0.975 5:31 0.991,0.987,0.994
0.990 6:54 0.989,0.983,0.993
0.999 10:22 0.984,0.979,0.989
Fig.3: FNProbeRequest Statistics:
Time τ (p) without reply until a node
is declared oﬄine, and the estimation
qi(p) of detecting an online node
address over the whole period, about10% advertised 2 and 3.6% 3 diﬀerent IPs.
On a closer look, nodes with more than10 IP addresses were commonly located
at universities, but also at the Tor proxy networkTKTOR-NET, indicating that
some users aim to hide their IP address in the Opennet by using Tor. At the time
of the measurement, TKTOR-NET provided three exit nodes that participated
in Freenet. IPs from various anonymous VPN were discovered as well. The dis-
covered nodes were mainly traced back to Europe and North America, as can be
seen in Figure 2. Nearly a quarter of the discovered installations were located in
the USA, an eighth in Germany. Together with France and Great Britain, these
countries made up more than half of all encountered nodes.
Discussion: Our results show that Freenet is widely used. We discovered close
to 60,000 active Freenet installations. So there clearly is demand for privacy-
preserving communication and publication. Nevertheless, the typical Opennet
user does not seem to be located in countries typically associated with Internet
censorship. However, our study does not shed light on Darknet and Tor users.
5.2 Churn
In this Section, we discuss and compare the results for the two methods to
measure churn behavior in Freenet introduced in Section 3.2. In all measurement
studies of ﬁle-sharing systems, very short medium session length of less than 1
hourwereobserved.Weexpectedtoseesuchshortsessionsaswell,corresponding
to down- or uploads of one speciﬁc data item, especially if the content is sensitive
andonlinetimesareshorttominimizetheriskofcapture.However,Freenetusers
areadvisedtoleavetheirclientsrunningforatleast24hours,sothatweexpected
a comparable high fraction of long session as well. For both measurements, we
ﬁrst state the set-up and the results, but leave the discussion until the end of this
subsection. In addition, we shortly discuss both the accuracy of our measurement
as well as the additional load on the network created by the measurement.
Setup: The ﬁrst measurement study was used to analyze the long-term behavior
of a large set of nodes over more than a month, identifying daily and weekly pat-
terns. The second measurement was needed because nodes were not contacted

14
 0
 0.02
 0.04
 0.06
 0.08
 0.1
 0.12
 0  50  100  150  200  250  300  350
P(S=x)
Session length S in hours
 0
 0.02
 0.04
 0.06
 0.08
 0.1
 0.12
 0  2  4  6  8  10  12  14
(a) Session Length
 0
 500
 1000
 1500
 2000
 2500
 3000
 3500
 4000
 0  100  200  300  400  500  600  700
Online Nodes
Time in hours (b) Nodes Online
Fig.4: Churn characteristics usingFNPRoutedPing for node discovery
frequently enough to provide an accurate description of the session length distri-
bution. The diﬀerences in the methodology were due to a change in the Freenet
code between the ﬁrst and the second measurement, which abolished theFN-
PRoutedPing message used for locating speciﬁc nodes.
Using FNPRoutedPing Weperformedthemeasurementsqueryingeverynode
at mostk = 5 times. In order to observe the long-term behavior of nodes, the
measurement period was chosen to be X = 1h. The value of k was chosen,
such that our own nodes replied with a probability of99.9%. The measurements
were executed over a period of 28 days in August and September 2012 using 55
instrumented Freenet clients.
Results: The session length distribution is shown in Figure 4a, using bins of
1 hours in agreement with our measurement period. The majority of session
lasted less than two hours, only 1.7% of the sessions lasted longer than 100
hours. The longest observed session was357 hours. Note that there was a drop
in the session length at about 8 and 17 hours, most probably because some nodes
are only online during certain parts of the day.
The inter-session time follows a similar distribution: Roughly 10% of the
inter-sessions are between1 and 2 hours. Potential reasons are the missed prob-
ing due to the probabilistic nature of the measurements, crashes, and short-time
connectivity breaks, e.g., when moving a laptop from home to work. Further-
more, there is a peak at the about 8 hours, in agreement with the corresponding
peak of session length of roughly 16-17 hours. The results indicate that some
users only run their clients during the day. The average connectivity factor of
all nodes was rather high, namely0.19.
The average number of discovered nodes was 3, 207 of the 15, 503 pinged
nodes. The number of discovered nodes over time can be seen in Figure 4b.
Diurnal patterns can be clearly identiﬁed. There was a maximum in the number
of users at 10 PM CEST and a minimum at 10 AM CEST. In general, the

15
number of online nodes in our sample varied between2, 500 and 3, 600. So the
network size changed periodically, but not drastically.
Accuracy and Load: The session length is only estimated within an accuracy
of 2X = 2 hours, hence we only considered the long term behavior in this
measurement. Note that the results represent a lower bound on the fraction of
long session because nodes can be accidentally declared oﬄine during a session.
As for the measurement cost, we found that without an measurement, a Freenet
node forwarded on average around13, 000 ﬁle requests and replies per hour, not
considering maintenance costs. The average maintenance traﬃc produced by our
measurement was less than500 messages per node per hour.
Using FNPProbeRequest The measurement was conducted in November
2013 over a period of 9 days using 150 instrumented clients. We variedp, the
lower bound on the probability that an online node replies within a timeτ (p),
between 0.9, 0.925, 0.95, 0.975, 0.99, and 0.999 as described in Section 3.2. Our
monitoring nodes received at leastreq = 10, 000 replies per minute. Choosing
τ (p) according to Eq. 4 with an estimate ofn = 15, 000 resulted in intervals of
roughly 3 (p = 0.9) to 10 (p = 0.99) minutes as can be seen in Table 3. Note
that p is a lower bound on the probability to discover a node since we consider
a lower bound onreq and an upper bound onn.
Results: The median session length of the second measurement was between 49
to 110 minutes, depending onp. In particular, the median session lengths for
p = 0.975 and p = 0.99 were 95 and 99 minutes, respectively. The distribution
of the session length is shown in Figure 5a. We ﬁtted the distribution to the
most commonly used models for the session length (e.g., [21]), in order to see if
they provide adequate accuracy to be used as models of Freenet user behavior
in simulations. The non-linear least square ﬁt function in R10 was used to ﬁt
the distribution forp = 0.99: an exponential distribution with cdf1−exp(−ax)
for a = 4.086· 10−3, a shifted Pareto distribution1− (1 +x/b)−a for a = 1.054
and b = 116.3, a Weibull distribution1−exp(−(b∗x)a) for a = 0.4788 and b =
5.355·10−3, and a lognormal distributionΦ((log(x)−a)/b)fora = 4.5773610and
b = 1.8235325 withΦ denoting the cumulative normal distribution. The residual
errors were minimized for the Weibull distribution (about8· 10−3). However,
the lognormal distribution also achieved an residual error of only0.019. The
error of the lognormal distribution is mostly due to its underestimation of the
fraction of short sessions, as can be seen from Figure 5b. Since the session length
was underestimated by our measurement methodology in general, the error is
acceptableandcanbeseenasacorrection.TheﬁttedWeibulldistribution,onthe
other hand, overestimated the fraction of short sessions, while the exponential
and Pareto distribution did not model the shape of the distribution accurately.
The distribution of the inter-session length is displayed in Figure 5c. The
median inter-session length varied greatly between less than 10 minutes (p = 0.9)
10 http://stat.ethz.ch/R-manual/R-patched/library/stats/html/nls.html

16
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
 0.9
 1
 0.01  0.1  1  10  100  1000  10000  100000
P(S<=x)
Session Length S in min
p=0.900
p=0.925
p=0.950
p=0.975
p=0.990
p=0.999
(a) Session Length
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
 0.9
 1
 0.1  1  10  100  1000  10000
P(S <= x)
Session Length S in min
Measured
Exponential
Pareto
Weibull
Lognormal (b) Fit of Session Length
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
 0.9
 1
 0  500  1000  1500  2000  2500  3000  3500  4000
P(I<=x)
Intersession Length I in min
p=0.900
p=0.925
p=0.950
p=0.975
p=0.990
p=0.999
(c) Inter-session Length
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
 0.9
 1
 0.001  0.01  0.1  1  10
P(C<=x)
Connectivity Factor C
p=0.900
p=0.925
p=0.950
p=0.975
p=0.990
p=0.999 (d) Connectivity Factor
Fig.5: Session length for a) all consideredp, and b)p = 0.99 ﬁtted to common
session length models, c) inter-session length, and d) connectivity factor
and close to 6 hours (p = 0.999). All distributions show a strong increase in the
distribution function of the inter-session length at roughly8 to 10 hours as well
as at roughly16 to 17, indicating that a lot of users only run their clients during
certain hours of the day. Due to these spikes, the inter-session length could not
be ﬁt to any of the standard models. The distribution of the connectivity factor,
displayed in Figure 5d, shows that most users were online during a small fraction
of the measurement, but also more than5% of the users have a connectivity
factor of nearly1. Note that in contrast to the session length, the results for the
connectivity factor are very close for allp, due to the fact that the overall online
time is not largely inﬂuenced by splitting one session into multiple sessions. The
average connectivity factor is around0.22.
Accuracy and Load: We show that indeed our method selected nodes uniformly
at random, and captured more than98% of all online nodes. As stated in Section
3, assuming that thehtl counter is set high enough, all nodes should reply with
roughly equal probability. In particular, the number of requests answered by our
monitoring nodes should be approximately normal distributed. We performed
a Kolmogorov-Smirnoﬀ test, which indicates a normal distribution (p-value of
roughly 0.06). So nodes seem to be selected uniformly at random, which allowed

17
us to obtain a lower bound on the probability of detecting an online node as
follows. The size of a static network can be estimated by performing two sam-
ples and considering the size of their intersection [26]. Note that in a dynamic
network only a lower bound is obtained since the population changes in consec-
utive intervals and the intersection consists of at most all nodes online in both
intervals. We split the measurement period into intervals of lengthτ (p), and de-
termined the sampleAi of all nodes responding to a probe in intervali. We then
computed the fraction of the intersectionfi = |Ai∩Ai+1|
|Ai∪Ai+1|. For the probabilityqi
to sample a node during intervali. The probability that a node is sampled in
intervali and i + 1 is qiqi+1, and the probability that it is sampled in at least
one interval is1− (1−qi)(1−qiqi+1). For a static network and constantqi, the
expected value offi would beE(fi) = q2
i
1−(1−qi)2. We hence obtained an unbiased
estimate θ(qi) = 2fi
1+fi
by transforming fi = q2
i
1−(1−qi)2. The values computed
for mean,minimal, and maximumθ(qi) over all intervals exceed 0.98 (but for
the minimum in case ofp = 0.999 as displayed in Table 3), so that indeed we
captured the majority of online nodes per interval. For long intervalsτ (p), the
estimate on the accuracy decreases belowp since the changes in the population
outweighed the improved accuracy of an increased number of probes. However,
the probability to be detected in every interval decreases exponentially with the
session length and the reciprocal of interval lengthτ (p). For a probability of0.98
to detect a node, the chance to be accidentally declared oﬄine during 1 hour
(more than 15 timesτ (p)) is still close to 30 % forp = 0.9 andp = 0.95, explain-
ing the short median session length for low values ofp and the high number of
short intersessions of less than 10 minutes. Hence, the higher values
The overhead produced by FNPRoutedPing is about2000messages per hour,
which makes up a noticeable but not large fraction of the roughly13, 000requests
and replies that need to be processed normally.
Discussion: We conducted two measurements. The ﬁrst one was a long-term
measurement over more than 4 weeks, in order to ﬁnd diurnal and weekly pat-
tern. We found that the fraction of long sessions was considerably higher in
Freenet than in BitTorrent. Pouwelse [19] found that at most3.8% of BitTor-
rent users stay longer than10 hours and only0.34% longer than 100 hours. In
comparison, we observed close to2% of sessions lasting longer than100 hours.
We clearly observed diurnal patterns, though they are not as distinct as in other
applications, such as in Facebook [27]. The second measurement study was con-
ducted to obtain more ﬁne-grained results on the session and inter-session length,
in order toevaluate theapplicability of common churnmodels used in simulators.
We discovered that the session length is reasonably well modeled by lognormal
or Pareto distributions, but not by a Weibull or exponential distribution. In
contrast, Stutzbach’s results from 2006 indicate that churn in structured P2P
systems is well modeled by lognormal and Weibull distributions [21]. The median
session length was 4 hours in the ﬁrst measurement, but less than2 hours in
the second measurement. Potential reasons are the high inaccuracy of the ﬁrst

18
measurement. For example, a session length of slightly more than 2 hours can
accidentally be declared as 3 hours. Furthermore, nodes are only pinged every
hour, so that short inter-sessions can be missed. However, both measurements
indicate a longer median session length than the1 to 60 minutes observed in
Napster [15], Gnutella [15], FastTrack [16], Overnet [17], Bittorrent [19], and
KAD [20,21]. The inter-session length could not be modeled by commonly used
distributions such as Pareto, because both measurements exhibited local max-
ima at about 8 and 16 hours. Such behavior has not been remarked in the related
work, to the best of our knowledge. In summary, our results indicate that Freenet
users are online longer than users of common ﬁle-sharing applications. Further-
more, clear diurnal patterns can be observed by considering the number of online
nodes and the inter-session length.
An ulterior result of the churn analysis is that the online time of nodes can
be reliably tracked, even without the possibility to ping a speciﬁc node. In this
measurement, we only tracked the nodes by their location. However, locations
of Opennet nodes can be mapped to IP addresses by inserting monitoring nodes
in the system and tracking the location and IP of neighbors as presented in Sec-
tion 5.1. The knowledge of online time now enables intersection attacks on the
anonymity [28]. As a consequence, the seemingly harmlessFNPProbeRequest,
which returns information of a random node in the network, can potentially be
abused for harming the anonymity. Because the focus of our study was the eﬃ-
ciencyrather thanthesecurityofthe system,wedidnot perform adetailed study
on the potential damage. However, the reliability in tracking our own nodes in-
dicates thatFNPProbeRequestshould be removed from the set of Freenet’s func-
tionalities. It mainly seems to be used by Freenet developers to obtain statistics
about the network, but as seen above, the data is poorly anonymized and can
be potentially abused.
5.3 File Popularity , User Activity , and Content
The popularity of ﬁles in ﬁle-sharing systems is assumed to be Zipf-distributed,
i.e., the majority of requests address a small number of ﬁles. In contrast to P2P-
based content distribution systems, Freenet provides the storage and retrieval
of Freesites and blogs, which are clearly diﬀerent from regular popular media.
Hence, it is unclear if the aforementioned properties also hold for Freenet.
Setup: The measurement was conducted in Autumn 2012 using 11 instrumented
Freenet clients. Their locations were chosen uniformly at random.
Results: During the measurement, we logged several hundred thousands of ﬁle
requests. The 1,000 most popular ﬁles all received more than 21,000 requests,
indicating thatthe majority ofregular Freenetusers requested thoseﬁles. Our re-
sults indicate a Zipf-distribution for ﬁle popularity in agreement with the results
on BitTorrent [20,29]. The most popular ﬁle accounts for0.73% of seen requests,
the second most popular ﬁle only for0.45%. The 30-th popular ﬁle only accounts
for 0.25% of the requests. Hence, after the fast decrease in popularity for the
ﬁrst ﬁles, the decrease is then slower and steadier.

19
Discussion: Our analysis of ﬁle popularity and user activity mostly agrees with
the common assumptions. There are few very popular ﬁles, and the majority
of the ﬁles is not requested frequently. Similarly, most ﬁles are published by a
small set of users. We did not ﬁt the popularity distribution, since local caching
of popular ﬁles is bound to reduce the number of actually observed requests for
popular ﬁles in comparison to less popular ﬁles. Consequently, our measurements
underestimate the popularity of popular ﬁles, and the actual numbers are not
reliable. However, the existence of a Zipf-like distribution can be assumed from
the results, even if the actual shape of the distribution is skewed. Hence, the
Least-Recently-Seen caching used in Freenet and designed for such popularity
distributions should be very eﬀective.
6 Conclusion
We showed how to conduct measurements in Freenet despite its obfuscation pro-
tocols. The results verify that the routing in Freenet is insuﬃcient with regard
to the neighbor selection and the interaction between Opennet and Darknet.
Furthermore, we obtained a realistic churn model of Freenet users. In the fu-
ture, we aim to evaluate our proposed neighbor selection and routing algorithms
in a trace-driven simulation model based on the user behavior measurements
and integrate them into the Freenet client code.
Acknowledgments
We thank Jan-Michael Heller and Christina Heider for their help in conduct-
ing the measurements, and Rob Jansen and the anonymous reviewers for their
valuable comments.
References
1. Ian Clarke, Oskar Sandberg, Brandon Wiley, and Theodore W. Hong. Freenet: A
distributed anonymous information storage and retrieval system. InWorkshop on
Design Issues in Anonymity and Unobservability , 2000.
2. Ian Clarke, Theodore W. Hong, Scott G. Miller, Oskar Sandberg, and Brandon
Wiley. Protecting free expression online with freenet.IEEE Internet Computing ,
2002.
3. Ian Clarke, Oskar Sandberg, Matthew Toseland, and Vilhelm Verendel. Private
communication through a network of trusted connections: The dark freenet. 2010.
4. Eugene Y. Vasserman, Rob Jansen, James Tyra, Nicholas Hopper, and Yongdae
Kim. Membership-concealing overlay networks. InCCS, 2009.
5. Oskar Sandberg. Distributed routing in small-world networks. In Workshop on
Algorithm Engineering and Experiments (ALENEX06) , 2006.
6. Jon Kleinberg. The small-world phenomenon: An algorithmic perspective. In
Symposium on Theory of Computing , 2000.
7. Stefanie Roos and Thorsten Strufe. A contribution to darknet routing. InINFO-
COM, 2013.

20
8. Nathan S. Evans, Chris GauthierDickey, and Christian Grothoﬀ. Routing in the
dark: Pitch black. InACSAC, 2007.
9. Benjamin Schiller, Stefanie Roos, Andreas Hoefer, and Thorsten Strufe. Attack
resistant network embeddings for darknets. InSRDSW, 2011.
10. Guanyu Tian, Zhenhai Duan, Todd Baumeister, and Yingfei Dong. A traceback
attack on freenet. InINFOCOM, 2013.
11. Curt Cramer, Kendy Kutzner, and Thomas Fuhrmann. Bootstrapping locality-
aware p2p networks. InICON, 2004.
12. Prateek Mittal and Nikita Borisov. Shadowwalker: peer-to-peer anonymous com-
munication using redundant structured topologies. InProceedings of the 16th ACM
conference on Computer and communications security, pages 161–172. ACM, 2009.
13. Tomas Isdal, Michael Piatek, Arvind Krishnamurthy, and Thomas E. Anderson.
Privacy-preserving p2p data sharing with oneswarm. InSIGCOMM, 2010.
14. PrateekMittal,MatthewCaesar,andNikitaBorisov. X-vine:Secureandpseudony-
mous routing using social networks.arXiv preprint arXiv:1109.0971 , 2011.
15. P. Krishna Gummadi, Stefan Saroiu, and Steven D. Gribble. A measurement study
of napster and gnutella as examples of peer-to-peer ﬁle sharing systems.Computer
Communication Review, 2002.
16. SubhabrataSenandJiaWang. Analyzingpeer-to-peertraﬃcacrosslargenetworks.
Networking, IEEE/ACM Transactions on , 2004.
17. Ranjita Bhagwan, Stefan Savage, and Geoﬀrey M. Voelker. Understanding avail-
ability. In IPTPS, 2003.
18. Lei Guo, Songqing Chen, Zhen Xiao, Enhua Tan, Xiaoning Ding, and Xiaodong
Zhang. Measurements, analysis, and modeling of bittorrent-like systems. InIMC,
2005.
19. Johan A. Pouwelse, Pawel Garbacki, Dick H. J. Epema, and Henk J. Sips. The
bittorrent p2p ﬁle-sharing system: Measurements and analysis. InIPTPS, 2005.
20. P.KrishnaGummadi,RichardJ.Dunn,StefanSaroiu,StevenD.Gribble,HenryM.
Levy, and John Zahorjan. Measurement, modeling, and analysis of a peer-to-peer
ﬁle-sharing workload. InSOSP, 2003.
21. Daniel Stutzbach and Reza Rejaie. Understanding churn in peer-to-peer networks.
In IMC, 2006.
22. Sean Rhea, Dennis Geels, Timothy Roscoe, and John Kubiatowicz. Handling churn
in a dht.Computer Science, 2003.
23. Fabian Bustamante and Yi Qiao. Friendships that last: Peer lifespan and its role
in p2p protocols. Web Content Caching and Distribution , pages 233–246, 2004.
24. Petar Maymounkov and David Mazieres. Kademlia: A peer-to-peer information
system based on the xor metric. InPeer-to-Peer Systems, 2002.
25. Roger Dingledine, Nick Mathewson, and Paul F. Syverson. Tor: The second-
generation onion router. InUSENIX Security Symposium, 2004.
26. Sandeep Mane, Sandeep Mopuru, Kriti Mehra, and Jaideep Srivastava. Network
size estimation in a peer-to-peer network. University of Minnesota, MN, Tech.
Rep, 2005.
27. Fabian Schneider, Anja Feldmann, Balachander Krishnamurthy, and Walter Will-
inger. Understanding online social network usage from a network perspective. In
IMC, 2009.
28. David Isaac Wolinsky, Ewa Syta, and Bryan Ford. Hang with your buddies to
resist intersection attacks. InCCS, 2013.
29. Mohamed Hefeeda and Osama Saleh. Traﬃc modeling and proportional partial
caching for peer-to-peer systems.IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw., 2008.