Eclipse Attacks on Ethereum’s Peer-to-Peer Network
Ruisheng Shi1,★, Yuxuan Liang1, Zijun Guo1, Qin Wang2,
Lina Lan1,★, Chenfeng Wang1, Zhuoyi Zheng1
1Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications| 2 UNSW Sydney
Abstract
Eclipse attacks isolate blockchain nodes by monopolizing their
peer-to-peer connections. The attacks were extensively studied in
Bitcoin (SP’15, SP’20, CCS’21, SP’23) and Monero (NDSS’25), but
their practicality against Ethereum nodes remains underexplored,
particularly in the post-Merge settings.
We present the first end-to-end implementation of an eclipse
attack targeting Ethereum (2.0 version) execution-layer nodes. Our
attack exploits the bootstrapping and peer management logic of
Ethereum to fully isolate a node upon restart. We introduce a multi-
stage strategy that majorly includes (i) poisoning the node’s dis-
covery table via unsolicited messages, (ii) infiltrating Ethereum’s
DNS-based peerlist by identifying and manipulating the official
DNS crawler, and (iii) hijacking idle incoming connection slots
across the network to block benign connections. Our DNS list poi-
soning is the first in the cryptocurrency context and requires only
28 IP addresses over 100 days. Slots hijacking raises outgoing redi-
rection success from 45% to 95%. We validate our approach through
controlled experiments on Ethereum’s Sepolia testnet and broad
measurements on the mainnet. Our findings demonstrate that over
80% of public nodes do not leave sufficient idle capacity for ef-
fective slots occupation, highlighting the feasibility and severity
of the threat. We further propose concrete countermeasures and
responsibly disclosed all findings to Ethereum’s security team.
Keywords
Eclipse Attacks, Ethereum, Web3, Peer-to-Peer Network
1 Introduction
Ethereum has become one of the most successful cryptocurrency
platforms. On Sep. 15, 2022, Ethereum completed its long-anticipated
merge [1], transitioning from Proof-of-Work (PoW) to Proof-of-
Stake (PoS). This merge unified the original Ethereum mainnet
(execution layer) and the Beacon Chain (consensus layer), reducing
energy consumption by 99.95% by eliminating the need for energy-
intensive mining. This transition introduced new assumptions and
behavioural changes in the peer-to-peer (P2P) network layer [2]:
• Long-lived validator nodes.PoS validators maintain persistent
online presence, resulting in more stable peer sets.
• Static bootstrapping and peer discovery.Validators often
reuse static peer configurations or depend heavily on DNS-based
discovery mechanisms.
• Client usage patterns.A small number of client pairings (e.g.,
Prysm+Geth) dominate validator deployments.
• Exposure of execution clients.Although block finality is de-
termined by the consensus layer, the execution client handles
transaction gossip and mempool operations.
Accepted by The ACM Web Conference (WWW) 2026.
★denotes corresponding authors.
These shifts call for a renewed assessment of classical network-
layer threats within Ethereum’s PoS architecture. For instance, the
persistent online presence of validators results in stable peer sets,
making them ideal targets for long-term network manipulation.
The reliance on static bootstrapping and DNS-based discovery sig-
nificantly enhances the success rate of peer poisoning strategies.
In this paper, we revisit and refine the classic eclipse attack under
these updated assumptions. We propose a practical, multi-stage
attack that leverages previously discussed vectors (e.g., discovery
table poisoning, DNS list infiltration) to strategically occupy both
incoming and outgoing connections.
We present our progress in a step-by-step manner.
⊲ We systematically analyze the P2P networking behavior
of post-Merge Ethereum execution-layer nodes.
We deeply analyze how post-Merge Ethereum nodes discover
peers, manage connections, and maintain the network. Our study
covers both client architecture and address formats, particularly the
transition from legacy enode to the more extensible ENR format.
We delve into the structure and management of both short-term
(discovery table) and long-term (DB) peer records, highlighting
mechanisms such as Discv4 message handling, dynamic K-bucket
updates, IP-based admission limits, and initialization routines that
protect against adversarial influence.
In addition, we explore the full connection management lifecy-
cle, including the establishment and limitations of incoming and
outgoing connections, rate-limiting policies, and the fallback to
DNS-based discovery. We further examine the role of thedevp2p
crawler in maintaining Ethereum’s DNS peerlist, detailing its scor-
ing system, update frequency, and pruning behavior. These insights
reveal points of vulnerability within Ethereum’s peer discovery
and connection protocol stack, which inform our attack design and
defense proposals.
⊲ We propose the first practical eclipse attack against the
Ethereum’s post-Merge P2P network.
Eclipse attacks isolate a target node by controlling all its P2P con-
nections [3–6]. Once isolated, an attacker can feed the victim false
information, undermining blockchain consistency and enabling
various attacks—such as deanonymization [7–9], selfish mining [10–
13], double spending, or smart contract manipulation [14]. These
attacks reduce network resilience and can support larger threats
like 51% attacks.
Research on Ethereum’s network layer has explored its secu-
rity [15], topology [16, 17], and P2P behavior [18], and attacks such
as partitioning and eclipsing [6, 19–23], topology mapping [16, 17,
24–33], and network-layer deanonymization [18, 34–40]. However,
most eclipse attack studies focus on Bitcoin [41–43] or Monero [44],
and existing Ethereum work largely predates the Merge [19–21].
⊲We have new designs for implementing the attack.
arXiv:2601.16560v2  [cs.CR]  30 Apr 2026

Ethereum’s current network stack introduces new challenges
for eclipse attacks. Recent Geth versions preload benign peers into
the discovery table, blocking early attacker entries. Since v1.9.11,
Ethereum also uses DNS-based peer discovery, which can bypass
poisoned tables. Finally, each node only accepts 34 incoming con-
nections, making slot preemption essential.
We design a multi-stage attack. We first fill the target’s peerlist
(discovery table and DNS), then hijack incoming slots network-wide.
When the target restarts, it is forced to connect only to attacker-
controlled nodes so as to complete the eclipse.
Here, we highlight our new designs.
⊲We evaluate attacks on both Sepolia testnet and mainnet.
We implement and evaluate our attack pipeline on Sepolia (test-
net), validating the feasibility and success rate of each attack stage
under realistic network conditions. To assess applicability, we also
analyze Ethereum mainnet nodes and measure network-wide slot
availability, connection patterns, and peer behavior.
We conduct a step-by-step experimental analysis of each attack
component. For instance, in evaluating the incoming slot hijacking
strategy, we scan over 2000 public Ethereum nodes and observe that
more than80%of them have at most10available incoming slots,
confirming the feasibility of large-scale slots occupation. Our DNS
poisoning strategy is tested over a 3-month period, during which
we successfully infiltrate the DNS list with attacker-controlled IPs.
Experiments are carefully documented, and key metrics (e.g., filling
rates, IP resource usage, timing thresholds) are quantified in §4.
⊲We take further responsible actions.
To promote the security of the Ethereum ecosystem, we have
taken responsible steps throughout the course of this work.
All our identified vulnerabilities and attack workflow were
responsibly disclosed to Ethereum official team.
Alongside these disclosures, we proposed concrete mitigation
strategies, including immediate implementation-level patches as
well as longer-term protocol design improvements.
Last, we summarized our contributions in short:
•full exploration on Ethereum’s P2P network (§2);
•a new practical, multi-stage eclipse attack (§3);
•evaluation on testnet and mainnet (§4);
•countermeasure suggestions (§6).
2 Dissecting Ethereum P2P Network
We analyze the network-layer behavior of Ethereum nodes based
on Geth v1.14.3 [45] (released May 9, 2024), focusing on: (i) node
roles/types; (ii) peerlist management; (iii) connection handling and
(iv) DNS peerlist management.
2.1 Ethereum Nodes
An Ethereum node consists of two coordinated clients: theexe-
cution1 client and theconsensusclient [ 46]. The execution client
handles transaction propagation, while the consensus client is re-
sponsible for block propagation and participation in the PoS con-
sensus protocol. Each client connects to their P2P network.
1This paper focuses exclusively on the execution client. Unless otherwise stated,
references to an “Ethereum node” refer to the execution client.
2.2 Peerlist Management
To support efficient node discovery and connection establishment,
Ethereum employs a distributed and dynamically updated peerlist
management mechanism.
Short-&long-term databases.The local node maintains a long-
term node storage database (referred to asDB) with no size limita-
tions. This database persists even after the local node is restarted,
retaining all stored nodes. Concurrently, each time the local node
starts up, it creates a short-term node database in the memory
called thediscovery table, used for node discovery and connection
management within the Ethereum network. Unlike the long-term
database, this short-term one is cleared entirely upon each restart
of the local node.
Discv4 messages.Ethereum’s node discovery is implemented via
the Discv4 protocol [47], which operates over UDP. The protocol de-
fines six types of message packets, includingPing/Pong for liveness
detection and node table updates,FindNode/Neighbors for locating
the closest nodes in the ID space, andENRRequest/ENRResponse for
exchanging node records. Together, these messages enable nodes to
test connectivity, discover new peers, and maintain an up-to-date
view of the network topology.
Management mechanism ofDB.The long-term database (i.e.,DB)
maintains metadata for each discovered node. Two main operations
are performed:
• Node addition:A node is added to the database if it has remained
in the discovery table for over 5 minutes and has passed at least
one liveness check. This check is performed in a recurring cycle
every 30 seconds.
• Node deletion:Nodes that have not responded to Ping messages
within the last 24 hours (as indicated by thelastpong timestamp)
are removed from the database. This cleanup process is triggered
every hour.
Data structure of discovery table.The discovery table comprises
17 K-buckets, each structured according to the Kademlia protocol
to manage and organize peer information in a P2P network. Nodes
are grouped based on their XOR distance from the local node and
are ranked by activity. Since every bucket stores up to 16 active
nodes, the table can accommodate up to272(=17×16) nodes.
To prevent overrepresentation of nodes from the same subnet,
Ethereum enforces two IP-level restrictions:
•bucketIPLimit: At most 2 nodes from the same /24 subnet may
reside in any single bucket.
•tableIPLimit: Across the entire discovery table, a maximum
of 10 nodes from the same /24 subnet is allowed.
Initialization of discovery table.After the local node starts, the
table is initialized through the following steps:
• The local node first loads 30 random nodes from the database and
adds 4 bootnodes to form 34 seed nodes (via loadSeedNodes).
“Random” means generating an ID and selecting the first node in
the database with a greater or equal lexicographic ID.
• It then performs a self-lookup and a random lookup to populate
the table with benign nodes (via doRefresh, §2.2), reducing the
risk of attacker-controlled entries.

Once initialization is complete, the discovery table enters a dy-
namic update phase, during which it continuously refreshes its
entries based on network activity and liveness checks.
Update of discovery table.The discovery table is updated via
node insertion, deletion, and replacement.
• Node filling.The discovery table is populated through both ac-
tive and passive mechanisms. In the active case, the node peri-
odically runs the doRefresh function (every 15–30 minutes) to
insert seed nodes (loadSeedNodes, see §2.2) and perform three
random lookups (lookupRandom) to refresh bucket entries. Each
lookup initiates a recursiveFindNode query based on a randomly
generated target ID, collecting Neighbors responses to progres-
sively discover closer nodes, which are then stored in the table.
In the passive case, the node adds peers that send it Ping mes-
sages during normal operation (lookup recursive search refers
to Appendix A).
• Node deletion and replacement.The doRevalidate function runs
every 0–10 seconds, randomly selecting a bucket to verify live-
ness. It pings the latest seen node; if responsive, the node is
promoted within the bucket and its ENR is updated if needed. If
unresponsive, it is replaced by a node from the replacement list.
2.3 Connections Management
By default, the upper bound of connections for an Ethereum node is
50, with a maximum of 16 outgoing and 34 incoming connections.
Incoming connections establishment.An Ethereum node allows
up to 34 incoming connections. Since incoming connections are
passively established, we discuss the reasons why such connection
attempts may fail in Appendix B.
Outgoing connections establishment.A node maintains up to
16 outgoing connections. After startup, once the discovery table is
initialized, the node begins establishing outgoing connections via
a dial management loop, which continuously attempts to connect
to peers if slots are available. Static nodes (manually configured
peers) are prioritized but are not considered here as they need to be
added manually by users. Peers are selected with equal probability
from two sources: lookup discovery and DNS discovery. See more
details of establishing outgoing connections in Appendix C.
Connections dropping.Dropped connections in the network are
primarily caused by network-layer issues, such as TCP connection
timeouts or peer nodes going offline.
2.4 Devp2p Tool Management
Ethereum uses the devp2p command-line tool, embedded in the
Geth client, to maintain the official DNS peerlist. Nodes listed here
only support the UDP-based discovery protocol and are crawled
periodically by thedevp2ptool.
Crawler.Each devp2p node concurrently performs: (i) updates to
nodes listed in the input JSON file, and (ii) iterative peer discovery
from seed nodes by issuingFindNodequeries to known peers.
Scoring policy.When a devp2p crawler updates a node’s ENR
via a successful ENRResponse, the node gains +1 point. Crawlers
throttle ENR updates to one every 10 minutes. If a node fails to
respond, its score is halved. Once the score drops below 0, the node
is evicted from DNS list. Specifically, the devp2p tool awards points
to crawled nodes in two scenarios:
• Startup update bonus.When a crawl begins, the devp2p node
updates all nodes listed in the DNS peerlist. Any node that is
found to be online receives +1 point.
• Node discovery bonus.During the crawl, the devp2p node selects
peers from its discovery table and sends them FindNode requests.
Any node returned in the Neighbors response is also awarded
+1 point.
Crawling schedule.Ethereum launches a devp2p crawler every 5
hours and 40 minutes. Each crawl lasts 30 minutes, repeating 4–5
times daily. Nodes from all crawls are merged into an aggregate
list (all.json), from which the top-N nodes (based on score) are
selected per network – 3000 for mainnet, 250 for testnet.
3 Our Eclipse Attack
We target Ethereum execution layer nodes with public IP addresses,
occupying incoming and outgoing connections of the target node.
3.1 Overview of The Attack
Our attack proceeds in five steps (illustrated in Fig. 1). We present
details for each step in the following sections.
① Discovery table poisoning byDBpre-filling.Before the
target node launches, an attacker pre-fills its local database (DB)
to increase the probability of malicious entries being loaded into
the table upon startup.
② DNS list poisoning.An attacker continuously injects malicious
ENRs into Ethereum’s DNS-based discovery list prior to target
node’s restart, polluting a secondary peer source.
③ Network-wide available slots occupation.The attacker pre-
emptively fills available incoming connection slots across the
network, reducing the number of reachable honest peers when
the target node attempts to connect after reboot.
④ Outgoing connections hijacking.Upon the target node’s
restart, the attacker activates numerous malicious nodes to send
Ping messages, filling the discovery table. With most honest
nodes’ incoming slots already occupied, the target node is likely
to establish outgoing connections with attacker-controlled peers.
⑤ Incoming connections hijacking.Simultaneously, the at-
tacker floods the target node with incoming connection requests,
exhausting incoming connection limits and completing the eclipse.
3.2 (Step-①) Discovery Table Poisoning
We begin our attack by pre-filling the target node’s persistent data-
base (i.e.,DB) to poison its discovery table upon restart. Normally,
when a node boots up, it initializes its discovery table with a small
set of seed nodes—some randomly selected fromDB, and others
hardcoded as bootnodes. As a result, even before the node starts
processing unsolicited Ping messages, part of its discovery table is
already occupied by these entries. This limits the attacker’s ability
to fully control the table post-restart.
To overcome this limitation, we launch a two-stage attack. First,
we inject attacker-controlled nodes into the target’sDBbefore it
restarts. Then, upon the next boot, these nodes are likely selected
as seed nodes, effectively giving the attacker a foothold in the
discovery table from the outset.

Figure 1: Our Eclipse Attack Workflow (Steps①–③operate in parallel in practice, we illustrate them sequentially for clarity.)
To achieve DB poisoning, we send Ping messages from attacker
nodes to the target node, leveraging the passive discovery behavior
(§2.2), which causes the target to insert those nodes into its discov-
ery table. Then, we rely on the node addition logic of the persistent
database (§2.2), which periodically stores discovery table entries
that have passed liveness checks for more than 5 minutes intoDB.
To maximize poisoning coverage, we perform the attack in mul-
tiple rounds, described below:
•We detected the restart of the target node.
• We immediately send Ping messages from the first round of
attacker nodes, which gradually populate both the discovery
table andDB.
• Once the first-round nodes are stored inDB, we terminate them
and launch a second round of attacker nodes. As the first-round
nodes go offline, the second-round nodes replace them in the
discovery table and eventually inDB.
• We repeat this replacement process across multiple rounds until
DBis sufficiently filled with attacker-controlled ENRs.
• Finally, we detect the restart of the target node for asecond time,
triggering a discovery table initialization phase dominated by
attacker entries drawn from the poisoned databaseDB.
This secondary restart is essential. It ensures that the attack
nodes from the poisonedDBare loaded early into the discovery ta-
ble, improving the attacker’s success rate. Although the first restart
is needed to initiate the initial discovery table state, subsequent
rounds do not require restarts, as discovery table entries can still
be updated efficiently while the node is online.
During the target node’s second restart, we launch a discov-
ery table poisoning attack concurrently. Specifically, 272 attacking
nodes (matching the 272 slots in the discovery table) send Ping
messages to the target node to maximize attacker’s occupancy of
the discovery table. To further improve the occupancy, we modify
the behavior of the attacking nodes: upon receiving FindNode mes-
sages from the target node, they respond withNeighbors messages
that include attacking nodes rather than benign nodes.
3.3 (Step-②) DNS List Poisoning
Next, we pre-fill the Ethereum DNS discovery list with attacker-
controlled nodes, such that the target node is likely to select our
malicious nodes when establishing outgoing connections. Our at-
tack proceeds in two main phases.
We first inject malicious nodes into the master DNS list. We
launch a large number of attacker nodes and keep them stably
online. Empirically, a mainnet node is likely to be included in the
DNS list within 1–2 days, while a Sepolia testnet node takes about
10 days. To improve visibility, we configure nodes with low ENR
node IDs (e.g., prefixed with leading zeros) so that they are ranked
at the top of crawler input list.
After our nodes are included, we repeatedly trigger score incre-
ments to improve their ranking:
•Identify the officialdevp2pcrawler node;
• Pre-generate node IDs prefixed with zeros and start nodes to
appear first in the crawler’s input file;
• Monitor incoming ENRRequest messages to infer the crawler’s
launch time;
• Activate multiple malicious nodes to Ping the crawler, fill its
discovery table, and respond toFindNode queries with neighbors
lists containing our own malicious nodes;
• Respond to any ENRRequest from the crawler to gain score in-
crements.
Once a sufficient number of our nodes reach high scores, they
are selected into the top-𝑁 official DNS list used by Geth clients
at startup, thereby increasing the probability that the target node
connects to malicious peers.
3.4 (Step-③) Network-wide Slots Occupation
We preemptively occupy the available incoming connection slots
of as many benign nodes as possible. This blocks the target node
from establishing connections with honest peers; when the target
attempts to connect, it is forced to rely on attacker-controlled nodes
instead—enabling an eclipse attack.
3.5 (Step-④) Outgoing Connections Hijacking
After the target node restarts, all of its existing connections are
dropped. We take advantage of this reset: since Ethereum lacks an
active connection eviction policy, we activate a swarm of attacker
nodes that rapidly send Ping messages to the target. This increases
the chances that the target will select these attacker nodes from its
discovery table or DNS list for outgoing connections.
3.6 (Step-⑤) Incoming Connections Hijacking
Upon the target node restarts, its incoming connection slots are
unoccupied. We launch a large number of malicious nodes that
aggressively initiate connection requests to the target, aiming to
fill all of its incoming connection slots before benign peers connect.

4 Evaluation of Our Attack
We implemented our eclipse attack with details deferred to Appen-
dix E. Then, we conducted experimental evaluation towards each
attack strategy in §3.
4.1 Evaluating Step-①(Discovery Table)
We first investigated the attack targeting Ethereum’s node discovery
mechanism. In this strategy, an attacker preemptively sends a large
number of crafted node records to potential victim nodes, aiming
to insert and maintain attacker-controlled entries in their discovery
tables. This manipulation increases the likelihood of the attacker
being selected during peer connections, which is the foundation
for our eclipse attack. All experiments in this part were conducted
on Sepolia testnet.
We begin by measuring the growth scale and storage character-
istics of node database to assess the resource cost and practicality
of such an attack. Next, we design and validate a feasible filling
strategy that complies with the protocol while continuously push-
ing malicious records to the target. Finally, we conduct controlled
experiments to evaluate the effectiveness of the attack, focusing on
the proportion of attacker nodes in the victim’s discovery table.
Our experimental setup involves deploying attacker and tar-
get nodes on two public servers and we disabled IP-based admis-
sion limits on the targets. Attack nodes were instantiated to cover
slots in the target discovery table and repeatedly sent unsolicited
Ping messages to maximize occupancy and evict existing entries.
Upon receiving a target’s FindNode, attackers should reply with
Neighborscontaining attacker entries.
Measurement of DB growth.Since the number of benign nodes
in the target’s DB directly affects the success of DB stuffing, we
deployed a Sepolia full node on a public network server and moni-
tored its DB growth from an empty state. As shown in Fig. 2a, the
DB grows at an average rate of 200 nodes per month. Based on
Ethereum’s official statistics on May 5, 2025, the total number of
Sepolia nodes is estimated to be around 2,000. Thus, the maximum
realistic DB size on Sepolia is expected to reach 2,000 entries.
Feasibility of poisoning.We have two steps.Initial filling: we
evaluate whether attacker-controlled nodes can be successfully
inserted into an initially empty db.Repeated insertions: we evaluate
the feasibility of sustaining and expanding DB presence across
multiple rounds of poisoning, even after benign entries are added.
Upon the target’s restart, the attacker launched 272 malicious
nodes that continuously Ping the target to populate its discov-
ery table; we measured the filling rate over time. The first round
steadily increased attacker-controlled entries to 95% occupancy
within 24 hours (Fig. 2b, Table 1). After terminating that batch,
we repeated the procedure with new batches every 2 hours for
a total of six rounds. Each new batch was able to refill the ta-
ble—typically to nearly 100%—within about 1 hour of the previous
batch stopping, demonstrating the effectiveness and repeatability
of the multi-round filling strategy (Fig. 2c, Table 1).
Discovery table poisoning.From §2.2, it is known that the divi-
sion of buckets is based on the number of leading zero bits of the
XOR distance of node IDs. The probability𝑃𝑘 that a randomly gener-
ated ID falls into a certain bucket𝑘 is: 𝑃𝑘 = 1
216−𝑘− 1
216−(𝑘−1) = 1
217−𝑘 .
Table 1: Node Filling Rates for Discovery Table
RoundExperiment times
1 2 3 4 5 6
1st 262/272 249/272 255/272 265/272 257/272 260/272
(96.32%) (91.54%) (93.75%) (97.43%) (94.49%) (95.59%)
2nd 256/272 257/272 256/272 264/272 259/272 254/272
(94.12%) (94.49%) (94.12%) (97.06%) (95.22%) (93.38%)
The probability that the target node selects peers from the last
𝑁 buckets when establishing outgoing connections is summarized
in Table 2. Accordingly, we evaluate the discovery table filling rate
based on the occupancy ratio of the last five buckets, as these have
the highest likelihood of being used for outgoing connections.
We adjust the number of nodes filled in each round. After exper-
imentation, we observe that the seed nodes selectedrandomlyfrom
the DB are typically placed in the last 8 buckets of the discovery
table. As a result, subsequent rounds of node filling focus only on
these 8 buckets, with each round inserting 128 (=816) nodes.
Ethereum nodes establish outgoing connections by randomly
generating target node IDs and selecting the closest matching en-
tries from discovery table. Therefore, increasing the occupancy
of higher-indexed buckets (i.e., those farther from local node IDs)
directly improves the likelihood that outgoing connections are
hijacked by attacker-controlled nodes.
We conduct experiments with two initial DB configurations
(257 and 517 benign seed nodes) and observe consistent results,
summarized in Table 2. Below, we describe the impact of DB filling
attacks using the 257-node case.
Without any DB filling, the last 2 buckets of discovery table
remain empty (0% fill rate), and the last 5 buckets are only 22%
filled. As DB filling rate increases from 33% to 66%:
• Without altering attacker node behavior, the last two buckets’
fill rate increases from 37% to 70%, and the last five buckets from
28% to 44%.
• When attacker node behavior is adjusted (e.g., ID tuning), the fill
rate of the last two buckets increases from 36% to 68%, and the
last five buckets from 22% to 76%.
These results show that: (i) Standard DB filling effectively im-
proves the occupancy of the last two buckets. (ii) DB filling with
attacker behavior adaptation significantly boosts the occupancy of
the last five buckets, thereby enhancing the success of outgoing
connection hijacking.
4.2 Evaluating Step-②(DNS List)
We evaluate the feasibility and cost of DNS list poisoning attacks.
We first locate the identity information of official devp2p nodes to
locate the crawler nodes for the DNS list. Then, we estimate the
maximum time required to fill the DNS list with nodes under our
control, providing a worst-case evaluation of the attack cost.
Locate the identity information of devp2p nodes.Following
§3.3, we ran five Ethereum mainnet nodes on a public server and
analyzed logs. From these logs we identified the devp2p crawler IP
as34.243.109.22. This crawler uses a randomized key pair and UDP
port at each startup, as confirmed by repeated observations.

(a) DB Size Changes over Time
 (b) Node Filling Changes over Time
 (c) Attack Node Count over Time
Figure 2: Evaluations on Sepolia Testnet
Table 2: Poisoning Discovery Table by DB Pre-filling (init benign seeds: number of benign seed nodes initially in the target’s DB.
pre-restart DB: avg. DB fill and seed occupation (%) over 10 runs before restart.post-restart fill: avg. fill rate of the last 2, 5, 8,
and 17 buckets after restart (10 runs).outbound selection rate: prob. that an outbound connection chooses a peer from those
buckets.behavior changed?: whether attacker behavior was altered.with/without DB poisoning: whether step- ① was applied.)
init benign seed DB fill seed (%) last-2 last-5 last-8 last-17
withDB
poisoning
257
pre-restart
DB
33% 38%
post-restart
fill
36% 37% 47% 28% 60% 44% 75% 62%
50% 58% 53% 55% 60% 34% 69% 47% 81% 65%
60% 68% 64% 65% 77% 40% 84% 52% 90% 67%
66% 73% 68% 70% 76% 44% 84% 57% 92% 74%
517
33% 42% 40% 42% 43% 34% 55% 48% 67% 64%
50% 56% 58% 60% 65% 43% 74% 51% 79% 64%
60% 64% 68% 70% 71% 49% 88% 56% 80% 67%
66% 72% 76% 71% 83% 51% 88% 56% 89% 67%
without- 0% 0% 0% 0% 22% 22% 41% 41% 57% 57%
behavior changed?Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No
outbound selection rate75% 96.9% 99.6% 100%
Estimation of DNS list filling time.Considering the devp2p tool
management in §2.4, to maximize visibility and scoring, our ob-
jective is to ensure that attacker-controlled nodes are consistently
online and discoverable, receiving the maximum 3-point score dur-
ing every crawler session. This allows us to estimate the minimum
time required to fill the DNS list under ideal conditions.
To uphold ethical standards, we did not perform filling attacks
on the official devp2p crawler.Instead we built a minimal controlled
testbed on two public servers: one runs the target node (no IP re-
strictions, generates a random node ID and UDP port at each startup,
and uses the latest DNS summary as crawled-node input), and the
other hosts five attacker nodes. The attackers continuously Ping
the target and, uponFindNode requests, reply withNeighbors mes-
sages listing all five attacker entries to maximize exposure. The
experiment was repeated for 10 trials.
Table 3: Estimated Time to Reach DNS List Completion under
Different Filling Rates
Filling rate 0% 25% 50% 75% 100%
Score 275 325 506 831 2688
Time(days) 54 64 100 166 538
In 5 out of 10 experiments, at least some attacker nodes success-
fully entered the target’s discovery table. In one experiment, all five
attacker nodes reached the maximum score (3 points), demonstrat-
ing the feasibility of DNS list poisoning under controlled conditions.
We analyze the score distribution of nodes in the Sepolia testnet
DNS list as of July 17, with scores ranging from 275 to 2,688. As-
suming each crawl adds only one point to benign nodes and that
an attacker can earn 3 points per crawl (a net gain of 2 points),
the average daily score advantage is 5 (=( 30/10− 1)∗ 5/2) points.
Based on this, we estimate the time required to replace 0%, 25%,
50%, 75%, and 100% of DNS list entries, as shown in Table 3.
4.3 Evaluating Step-③(Available Slots)
We analyzed the number and distribution of available incoming
connection slots on both Ethereum mainnet and the Sepolia test-
net, and launched a large-scale slots occupation attack targeting
all reachable nodes on Sepolia. We probed more than 2,000 public
Ethereum nodes and discovered that over 80% limit available in-
coming slots to 10 or fewer, supporting the feasibility of large-scale
slot occupation. (details in Appendix D).
On July 17, 2025, we screened a total of 1,268 nodes on Sepolia
testnet from the official DNS list, measured whether these nodes
had available slots. We detected 321 nodes with available slots. We

started 200 Sepolia testnet nodes on a public network server and
configured all 1,268 nodes as static nodes.
We tried to occupy the incoming available connection slots of
nodes in the whole network in real world. After two hours, about
90% of the nodes with available slots were occupied, leaving 34
nodes still with available slots. This means that an available slots
occupation attack is feasible on Sepolia testnet.
4.4 Evaluating Step-④(Outgoing Connections)
We evaluate the effectiveness of outgoing connection hijacking un-
der varying DNS list and DB filling conditions. We conduct experi-
ments in two conditions: before and after network-wide available
slots occupation, to assess the impact on hijacking success.
• DNS list configuration.Since DNS list filling takes time in practice,
we simulate an 𝑛%poisoning of Sepolia’s 250-node DNS list
by replacing the lowest-scored250×𝑛 %entries with attacker-
controlled nodes.
• DB filling configuration.The target node is initialized with 250
seed nodes, and we perform two rounds of DB filling to achieve
a 50% DB poisoning rate.
Before available slots occupation.We conduct 20 experiments
on the Sepolia testnet under DNS list poisoning rates of 0%, 25%, 50%,
75%, and 100%, with the DB filling rate fixed at 50%. Table 4 presents
the results. As expected, the success rate of outgoing connection
hijacking increases as the DNS list poisoning rate rises.
We also analyzed the source of benign connections in the 56
experiments where the target node’s incoming connections were
not fully occupied. We found that, when the DB filling rate is 50%,
13 of these experiments (23%) had benign connections originating
from the discovery table, while 51 experiments (91%) had them
from the DNS list.
These results indicate that a 50% DB filling rate can effectively
limit the target node’s ability to establish benign connections via
the discovery table.
After available slots occupation.We evaluated outgoing con-
nections hijacking based on the available slots occupation in §4.3.
Experimental results are shown in Table 4.
In the case where the DNS list filling rate is 25% and the DB
filling rate is 50%, the success rate of outgoing connections after
occupying available slots increased by 10%; in comparison, when
the DNS list filling rate is 50% and the DB filling rate is 50%, the
success rate of outgoing connections after occupying available slots
has increased by 50%. The improvement effect is quite significant.
Table 4: Success Rates of Outgoing Connection Hijacking
beforeandafterAvailable Slots Occupation (FR: filling rate)
DNS list FR DB FRbeofore after
0% 50% 0/20 (0%) /
25% 50% 4/20 (20%) 6/20 (30%)
50% 50% 8/20 (40%) 19/20 (95%)
75% 50% 13/20 (65%) /
100% 50% 19/20 (95%) /
4.5 Evaluating Step-⑤(Incoming Connections)
We then evaluated attacks on both Sepolia testnet and Ethereum
mainnet by monitoring if an attacker could fully occupy incoming
connection slots after target nodes restarting.
As discussed in §2.3, Ethereum nodes reject all incoming con-
nection requests from the same IP address within 30 seconds. To
conserve public IP resources during our experiment, we disabled
this rate-limiting restriction on the target nodes. We used two pub-
lic servers: Server 1 and Server 2. On Server 1, we deployed three
full nodes as targets for the incoming connection hijacking test. On
Server 2, we launched 40 attacker nodes configured to pre-establish
peer connections by registering the target nodes as static peers
using theadmin.addPeercommand in advance.
We first start the attack nodes and configure the target nodes
as static nodes, and then start the target nodes. The experiment
results are showed in Table 5.
• On the Sepolia testnet, we conducted 30 trials. In all cases (100%),
attacker nodes successfully hijacked all incoming connections of
the target nodes within 30 seconds of restart.
• On mainnet, we conducted 40 trials. In 24 of them (60%), attackers
fully occupied all incoming connection slots within two days of
the target’s restart. Among these 24 successful trials, 18 (45% of
the total) achieved full occupation within 30 seconds of restart.
Table 5: Incoming Connection Hijacking
Network Success rates Restart interval of target nodes
Sepolia 30/30 (100%) 30/30 (100%) within 30s
mainnet 24/40 (60%)
18/40 (45%) within 30s
23/40 (57%) within 1 day
24/40 (60%) within 2 days
5 Further Discussion
5.1 Implications of Version Update Frequency
The frequency of Ethereum client updates, particularly for Geth2,
directly impacts how often nodes are restarted, which is an event
that can facilitate eclipse attacks due to temporary loss of benign
connections. To assess this, we analyzed the release history of
Geth from Ethereum’s Merge (Sep. 15, 2022) to date (May 5, 2025),
spanning over 32 months. Within this period, 56 versions were
released, averaging approximately 1.75 per month. This relatively
high release cadence implies that mainnet nodes undergo frequent
restarts, as each update generally necessitates one, temporarily
severing all active peer connections.
This presents a recurring window of opportunity for attackers
to exploit, as the node becomes momentarily vulnerable to peer
table manipulation and connection hijacking, thereby increasing
the feasibility of our proposed eclipse attack.
5.2 IP Resources Required for Our Attack
We estimate the public IP resources needed to perform each step of
the proposed eclipse attack.
2See: https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/releases/

① DB pre-filling.Sepolia testnet contains about 2,000 active nodes
(§4.1), The Sepolia testnet has a node size of approximately 2000
nodes, and attackers require 208 public IP addresses with a DB fill
rate of 50%. If the attacker wants to achieve a 50% DB fill rate, they
need to fill about 2000 nodes in 16 rounds, each round containing
128 nodes (the discovery table allows up to 10 IP addresses from
the same/24 subnet, so 208 ( = 13∗ 16) public IP addresses are
required, each IP running 10 nodes with different ports enabled
for each node). For the mainnet, which includes roughly 6,000
nodes (§D), the attacker would need 624 public IP addresses (i.e.,
208×3) under the same 50% filling rate assumption.
② DNS list poisoning.Due to the constraint that no more than 10
IPs from the same /24 subnet can appear in the discovery table,
at least272/10=28distinct public IP addresses are required.
③ A vailable slots occupation.To fill the available incoming slots
across the network, the attacker needs to control 200 active nodes.
A node rejects repeated incoming connections from the same IP
within 30 seconds (§2.3). Due to limited IP resources (§4.3), all
attack nodes were deployed using a single public IP. However,
assuming no IP constraints, 200 unique public IP addresses would
allow for rapid occupation of all available slots.
④ Outgoing connections hijacking.Similar to the DNS filling step,
this step also requires 28 public IP addresses due to the same /24
subnet restriction (272/10).
⑤ Incoming connections hijacking.Each Ethereum node allows up
to 34 incoming connections by default. In our experiment, we use
40 attack nodes to ensure full occupation. To prevent 30-second
rejection due to repeated IPs, each node requires a unique public
IP address—thus, 40 public IPs are needed for this step.
Among the five steps, Step- ① and Step-③ can reuse the same
set of public IP addresses. We estimate the total number of distinct
public IPs required for the eclipse attack as follows :
•Sepolia testnet:208+28+28+40=304public IPs;
•mainnet:624+28+28+40=720public IPs.
6 Countermeasures
6.1 Against the Adversarial DB Filling
Establish a blacklist mechanism for high-frequency pings.
A node records the timestamps of ping messages received from
each peer. If a peer sends more than 5 pings within 1 minute,
it is blacklisted, removed from the discovery table, and its UDP
messages are dropped. The initial blacklist duration is 1 minute;
repeated violations double the duration (2, 4, 8 minutes, etc.) up to
a maximum cap (e.g., 24 hours).
6.2 Against the DNS List Poisoning
At present, there are no restrictions on IP resources in the DNS list,
and we believe that this type of attack can be mitigated by limiting
the attacker’s resources.
• Limit the number of nodes with the same IP address in DNS
list.This requires a large amount of IP resources for attackers to
effectively carry out DNS list stuffing attacks.
• Establish a DNS node blacklist mechanism.Ethereum can
introduce a community-driven reporting system where users
submit suspicious DNS nodes along with log evidence. Once the
same node receives at least𝑁 independent reports, it is added to a
DNS blacklist. This threshold mechanism reduces false positives,
while ensuring that malicious nodes are gradually excluded from
the DNS list.
7 Related Work
Eclipse attacks against Ethereum.Marcuset al.[ 19] demon-
strated a low-resource eclipse on Geth v1.6.6: with only two attacker
hosts they could monopolize a target’s incoming and outgoing
connections by exploiting (1) the lack of a post-restart incoming-
connection cap and (2) the fact that Geth’s UDP listener becomes
active before bootstrapping, allowing unsolicited Ping-based con-
nections. Dahlkeet al.[ 20] showed the method also applies to Parity.
Henningsenet al.[ 21] proposed the “False Friends” attack (Geth
v1.8.0), using two IPs from different /24 subnets to occupy incoming
slots without requiring a restart, and noting that Geth’s outgoing
selection (one head per 17 buckets) can be abused by unsolicited
Pings to seize outgoing slots.
Eclipse attacks and more.Heilmanet al.[ 41] were the first to
introduce the concept of the eclipse attack in the context of Bitcoin.
Their method involves populating the target node’s peer table to
monopolize its outgoing connections. Tranet al.[ 42] proposed a
more stealthy variant, termedErebus, which leverages the capabili-
ties of autonomous system (AS)-level adversaries. By populating
the target’s peerlist with IP addresses owned by a malicious AS
and intercepting traffic at the network layer, the attacker gradu-
ally positions itself as a persistent intermediary, ultimately gaining
control over all of the target’s connections. Saadet al.[ 48] first
introduced the idea of occupying idle connection slots across the
network. However, they did not provide experimental validation
on the Bitcoin network. Shiet al.[ 44] extended eclipse attack to
Monero’s network. They proposed a connection reset attack, where
the attacker actively forces the target node to drop existing benign
connections without requiring a restart. This enables malicious
peers to rapidly seize those freed slots and establish control over
the target’s peer set.
8 Conclusion
We presented the first practical eclipse attack on Ethereum’s peer-
to-peer network after the Merge. Our attack enables full control
over targeted execution-layer nodes’ incoming and outgoing con-
nections. We evaluated on both testnet (Sepolia) and mainnet. We
show that an attacker with 304 public IP addresses can achieve a
95% success rate in isolating a target node on Sepolia testnet shortly
after its restart. We provided actionable countermeasures.
We also made responsible disclosures to Ethereum. They ac-
knowledged our reported problem and are committed to improving
the P2P layer, though no final fix has been released yet.
References
[1] pettinarip, wackerow, bskrksyp9, et al. The merge.Retrieved by July 2025.
https:// ethereum.org/ en/ roadmap/ merge/, 2025.
[2] wackerow, yiannisbot, corwintines, et al. Nodes and clients.Retrieved by July
2025. https:// ethereum.org/ en/ developers/ docs/ nodes-and-clients/, 2025.
[3] Maria Apostolaki, Aviv Zohar, and Laurent Vanbever. Hijacking bitcoin: Routing
attacks on cryptocurrencies. In2017 IEEE symposium on security and privacy
(SP), pages 375–392. IEEE, 2017.

[4] Muoi Tran, Inho Choi, Gi Jun Moon, Anh V Vu, and Min Suk Kang. A stealthier
partitioning attack against bitcoin peer-to-peer network. In2020 IEEE symposium
on security and privacy (SP), pages 894–909. IEEE, 2020.
[5] Jaehyun Ha, Seungjin Baek, Muoi Tran, and Min Suk Kang. On the sustain-
ability of bitcoin partitioning attacks. InInternational Conference on Financial
Cryptography and Data Security, pages 166–181. Springer, 2023.
[6] Muhammad Saad and David Mohaisen. Three birds with one stone: Efficient
partitioning attacks on interdependent cryptocurrency networks. In2023 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages 111–125. IEEE, 2023.
[7] Alex Biryukov, Dmitry Khovratovich, and Ivan Pustogarov. Deanonymisation of
clients in bitcoin p2p network. InProceedings of the 2014 ACM SIGSAC conference
on computer and communications security, pages 15–29, 2014.
[8] Giulia Fanti and Pramod Viswanath. Deanonymization in the bitcoin p2p net-
work.Advances in neural information processing systems, 30, 2017.
[9] Alex Biryukov and Sergei Tikhomirov. Deanonymization and linkability of
cryptocurrency transactions based on network analysis. In2019 IEEE European
symposium on security and privacy (EuroS&P), pages 172–184. IEEE, 2019.
[10] Jianyu Niu and Chen Feng. Selfish mining in ethereum. In2019 IEEE 39th
International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS), pages 1306–
1316. IEEE, 2019.
[11] Fabian Ritz and Alf Zugenmaier. The impact of uncle rewards on selfish mining in
ethereum. In2018 IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy Workshops
(EuroS&PW), pages 50–57. IEEE, 2018.
[12] Hongyue Kang, Xiaolin Chang, Runkai Yang, Jelena Mišić, and Vojislav B Mišić.
Understanding selfish mining in imperfect bitcoin and ethereum networks
with extended forks.IEEE Transactions on Network and Service Management,
18(3):3079–3091, 2021.
[13] Trishita Tiwari, David Starobinski, and Ari Trachtenberg. Distributed web
mining of ethereum. InInternational Symposium on Cyber Security Cryptography
and Machine Learning, pages 38–54. Springer, 2018.
[14] Ting Chen, Zihao Li, Yuxiao Zhu, Jiachi Chen, Xiapu Luo, John Chi-Shing Lui,
Xiaodong Lin, and Xiaosong Zhang. Understanding ethereum via graph analysis.
ACM Transactions on Internet Technology (TOIT), 20(2):1–32, 2020.
[15] Huashan Chen, Marcus Pendleton, Laurent Njilla, and Shouhuai Xu. A survey
on ethereum systems security: Vulnerabilities, attacks, and defenses.ACM
Computing Surveys (CSUR), 53(3):1–43, 2020.
[16] Chenyu Li, Ren Zhang, and Xiaorui Gong. A place for everyone vs everyone
in its place: Measuring and attacking the ethereum global network.Cryptology
ePrint Archive, 2025.
[17] Seoung Kyun Kim, Zane Ma, Siddharth Murali, Joshua Mason, Andrew Miller,
and Michael Bailey. Measuring ethereum network peers. InProceedings of the
Internet Measurement Conference 2018, pages 91–104, 2018.
[18] Lioba Heimbach, Yann Vonlanthen, Juan Villacis, Lucianna Kiffer, and Roger
Wattenhofer. Deanonymizing ethereum validators: The{P2P} network has a
privacy issue. pages 1319–1338, 2025.
[19] Yuval Marcus, Ethan Heilman, and Sharon Goldberg. Low-resource eclipse
attacks on ethereum’s peer-to-peer network.Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2018.
[20] Gordon Dahlke and Thomas Eisenbarth. Low-resource eclipse attacks on alter-
native ethereum clients. InIEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy
Workshops (EuroSPW), pages 45–52, 2018.
[21] Sebastian Henningsen, Daniel Teunis, Martin Florian, and Björn Scheuermann.
Eclipsing ethereum peers with false friends. In2019 IEEE European Symposium
on Security and Privacy Workshops (EuroS&PW), pages 300–309. IEEE, 2019.
[22] Karl Wüst and Arthur Gervais. Ethereum eclipse attacks. Technical report, ETH
Zurich, 2016.
[23] Hwanjo Heo, Seungwon Woo, Taeung Yoon, Min Suk Kang, and Seungwon Shin.
Partitioning ethereum without eclipsing it. InNDSS, 2023.
[24] Adem Efe Gencer, Soumya Basu, Ittay Eyal, Robbert Van Renesse, and Emin Gün
Sirer. Decentralization in bitcoin and ethereum networks. InInternational
conference on financial cryptography and data security, pages 439–457. Springer,
2018.
[25] Soo Hoon Maeng, Meryam Essaid, and Hong Taek Ju. Analysis of ethereum
network properties and behavior of influential nodes. In2020 21st Asia-Pacific
network operations and management symposium (APNOMS), pages 203–207. IEEE,
2020.
[26] Mohammad Masoud, Yousef Jaradat, Ahmad Manasrah, Mohammad Alia, Khaled
Suwais, and Sally Almanasra. A measurement study of the ethereum underlying
p2p network.Computers, Materials, & Continua, 78(1):515, 2024.
[27] Xi Tong Lee, Arijit Khan, Sourav Sen Gupta, Yu Hann Ong, and Xuan Liu.
Measurements, analyses, and insights on the entire ethereum blockchain network.
InProceedings of the web conference 2020, pages 155–166, 2020.
[28] Lucianna Kiffer, Asad Salman, Dave Levin, Alan Mislove, and Cristina Nita-
Rotaru. Under the hood of the ethereum gossip protocol. InInternational
Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security, pages 437–456. Springer,
2021.
[29] Jean-Philippe Eisenbarth, Thibault Cholez, and Olivier Perrin. Ethereum’s peer-
to-peer network monitoring and sybil attack prevention.Journal of Network and
Systems Management, 30(4):65, 2022.
[30] Yue Gao, Jinqiao Shi, Xuebin Wang, Qingfeng Tan, Can Zhao, and Zelin Yin.
Topology measurement and analysis on ethereum p2p network. In2019 IEEE
Symposium on Computers and Communications (ISCC), pages 1–7. IEEE, 2019.
[31] Kai Li, Yuzhe Tang, Jiaqi Chen, Yibo Wang, and Xianghong Liu. Toposhot:
Uncovering ethereum’s network topology leveraging replacement transactions.
InProceedings of the 21st ACM Internet Measurement Conference, pages 302–319,
2021.
[32] Chonghe Zhao, Yipeng Zhou, Shengli Zhang, Taotao Wang, Quan Z Sheng,
and Song Guo. Dethna: Accurate ethereum network topology discovery with
marked transactions. InIEEE INFOCOM 2024-IEEE Conference on Computer
Communications, pages 1711–1720. IEEE, 2024.
[33] Paulo Silva. Impact of geo-distribution and mining pools on blockchains: A study
of ethereum-practical experience report and ongoing phd work. In2020 50th
Annual IEEE-IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks-
Supplemental Volume (DSN-S), pages 73–74. IEEE, 2020.
[34] Yue Gao, Jinqiao Shi, Xuebin Wang, Ruisheng Shi, Zelin Yin, and Yanyan Yang.
Practical deanonymization attack in ethereum based on p2p network analysis. In
2021 IEEE Intl Conf on Parallel & Distributed Processing with Applications, Big Data
& Cloud Computing, Sustainable Computing & Communications, Social Computing
& Networking (ISPA/BDCloud/SocialCom/SustainCom), pages 1402–1409. IEEE,
2021.
[35] Robin Klusman and Tim Dijkhuizen. Deanonymisation in ethereum using exist-
ing methods for bitcoin.Retrieved October, 5(2023):2017–2018, 2018.
[36] Ferenc Béres, István A Seres, András A Benczúr, and Mikerah Quintyne-Collins.
Blockchain is watching you: Profiling and deanonymizing ethereum users, 2021.
[37] Dan Lin, Jiajing Wu, Yunmei Yu, Qishuang Fu, Zibin Zheng, and Changlin Yang.
Denseflow: Spotting cryptocurrency money laundering in ethereum transaction
graphs. InProceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2024, pages 4429–4438, 2024.
[38] Shan Wang, Ming Yang, Wenxuan Dai, Yu Liu, Yue Zhang, and Xinwen Fu.
Deanonymizing ethereum users behind third-party rpc services. InIEEE IN-
FOCOM 2024-IEEE Conference on Computer Communications, pages 1701–1710.
IEEE, 2024.
[39] Jiajun Zhou, Chenkai Hu, Jianlei Chi, Jiajing Wu, Meng Shen, and Qi Xuan.
Behavior-aware account de-anonymization on ethereum interaction graph.IEEE
Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 17:3433–3448, 2022.
[40] Wren Chan and Aspen Olmsted. Ethereum transaction graph analysis. In2017
12th international conference for internet technology and secured transactions
(ICITST), pages 498–500. IEEE, 2017.
[41] Ethan Heilman, Alison Kendler, Aviv Zohar, and Sharon Goldberg. Eclipse attacks
on{Bitcoin’s}{ peer-to-peer} network. In24th USENIX security symposium
(USENIX security 15), pages 129–144, 2015.
[42] Muoi Tran, Akshaye Shenoi, and Min Suk Kang. On the {Routing-Aware}
peering against{Network-Eclipse} attacks in bitcoin. In30th USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Security 21), pages 1253–1270, 2021.
[43] Adja Elloh Yves-Christian, Badis Hammi, Ahmed Serhrouchni, and Houda Labiod.
Total eclipse: How to completely isolate a bitcoin peer. In2018 Third International
Conference on Security of Smart Cities, Industrial Control System and Communica-
tions (SSIC), pages 1–7. IEEE, 2018.
[44] Ruisheng Shi, Zhiyuan Peng, Lina Lan, Yulian Ge, Peng Liu, Qin Wang, and Juan
Wang. Eclipse attacks on monero’s peer-to-peer network. InNDSS, 2025.
[45] Go Ethereum Team. Fuel depot (v1.14.3).Retrieved by July 2025. https:// github.
com/ ethereum/ go-ethereum/ releases/ tag/ v1.14.3, 2024.
[46] wackerow, chainide-agent-bob, m4sterbunny, et al. Node architecture.Retrieved
by July 2025. https:// ethereum.org/ en/ developers/ docs/ nodes-and-clients/ node-
architecture/, 2025.
[47] fjl, subtly, FrankSzendzielarz, et al. Node discovery protocol.Retrieved by July
2025. https:// github.com/ ethereum/ devp2p/ blob/ master/ discv4.md, 2023.
[48] Muhammad Saad, Songqing Chen, and David Mohaisen. Syncattack: Double-
spending in bitcoin without mining power. InProceedings of the 2021 ACM
SIGSAC conference on computer and communications security, pages 1668–1685,
2021.
[49] corwintines, abraj, wackerow, et al. Crypto-economic security.Retrieved by
July 2025. https:// ethereum.org/ en/ developers/ docs/ consensus-mechanisms/ pos/
#crypto-economic-security, 2024.
[50] wackerow, arredr2, baumstern, et al. Client diversity.Retrieved by July 2025.
https:// ethereum.org/ en/ developers/ docs/ nodes-and-clients/ client-diversity/, 2025.
A The Lookup Recursive Search Process of
Node Filling
The node lookup of the discovery table is an iterative process. The
recursive search algorithm process is as follows:
i) Randomly generate a node ID;

ii) Find the 16 nodes closest to the ID from the node list, with a set
of N0 nodes. Sort them in order of their distance from the node
ID in i), from near to far;
iii) In N0, in the order of ii), select a node that has not been queried
(and has not sent a FindNode message to that node), send a
FindNode message, label the node as queried, and merge the 16
nodes in the received Neighbors messages with N0. Find the 16
nodes closest to the ID from the merge and replace the nodes in
N0. The nodes in the received neighbor messages are stored in
the discovery table of the local node;
v) Repeat the iteration of iii) until all nodes in N0 have been queried,
and the iteration ends.
B The Reasons why Incoming Connection
Attempts fail
First, if the node has already reached its incoming connection limit,
new requests are automatically denied. Second, the node enforces a
rate-limiting policy that rejects all incoming connections from the
same IP address within a 30-second interval to prevent repeated
rapid attempts. Finally, connections may be rejected due to protocol-
level issues, such as mismatched network IDs or fork IDs, receipt of
malformed or excessively long handshake messages (e.g., during the
ETH or Snap protocol negotiation), duplicate connection attempts,
or connections from the same peer ID.
Further details on these rejection conditions can be found in the
handshake failure logic of the RLPX3, ETH4, and Snap5.
C Selecting Outgoing Connections
There are two outgoing connection selection resources for an Ethereum
node, namely, lookup discovery and DNS discovery. We will intro-
duce the two node-discovery methods below.
Node source based on lookup discovery.The node source based
on lookup discovery can cache up to 16 nodes. When the node
source is empty, the local node will enable lookup discovery. Each
lookup discovery targets the same target ID and requires multi-
ple iterations. Below is an introduction to the iterative process of
each lookup. At the beginning of each lookup, the first step is to
determine whether the local list has been searched:
• No, then this iteration is the initial iteration round for this lookup
discovery. A node ID is randomly generated as the target ID for
this lookup discovery, and the 16 nodes closest to the target
ID are selected from the local node list. They are sorted from
small to large according to their distance from the target ID and
added to the cache list result_entries for this lookup discovery.
Meanwhile, these 16 nodes are added to the lookup_buffer and
marked as seen. This round of iteration ends.
• Yes, select a node from the cache list that has not been queried
in order, send it a FindNode message, and receive Neighbors
messages. Combine the 16 nodes in the Neighbors messages
with the nodes in the cache list, retain the 16 nodes closest to the
target ID, and sort them from small to large according to their
3RLPX protocol handshake failure: https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/blob/
v1.14.3/p2p/peer_error.go#L75
4ETH protocol handshake failure: https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/blob/v1.
14.3/eth/protocols/eth/protocol.go#L67
5Snap protocol handshake failure section, refer to https://github.com/ethereum/go-
ethereum/blob/v1.14.3/eth/protocols/snap/protocol.go#L59.
distance from the target ID. Meanwhile, these 16 nodes are taken
from nodes that are not in the list, added to the lookup_buffer,
and marked as seen. This round of iteration ends.
The end condition for each lookup is that all nodes in the cache
list searched in this lookup have been queried.
Node source based on DNS discovery.After the local node is
started and initialized in the node list, it will retrieve nodes from
the URL of the candidate node list discovered based on DNS and
store them all in thedns_bufferbuffer.
The DNS discovery process is as follows:
• Obtaining DNS seeds.In the source code of the Ethereum client,
a specified DNS domain name is hard coded and used as a DNS
seed to initiate the node discovery process;
• Query DNS records and construct a node tree.Local nodes recur-
sively query subdomains based on branch information provided
in the DNS domain name until all leaf node ENR records are
obtained, and construct a DNS node tree.
• Select a node to establish a TCP connection.The local node extracts
the node enr record from the node tree and extracts information
such as node ID, IP, TCP port, etc. from the enr record. The local
node attempts to establish a TCP connection with the node based
on this information.
D Available Slots Measurement in Ethereum
P2P Network
Measurement of nodes with available slots.To measure the
availability of inbound connection slots, we extracted node sets for
Ethereum mainnet and the Sepolia testnet from DNS lists publicly
maintained by Ethereum (snapshot taken at 09:50 UTC on July 1st,
2025). Our probing program, deployed on a cloud server in the
United States, monitored these nodes continuously over a 24-hour
period. Each node was scanned hourly to determine its online status
and the number of available incoming connection slots.
We report the average results across 24 hourly scans in Table 6.
Each scan cycle took approximately 11 minutes for the mainnet
node set and 6 minutes for Sepolia. The temporal variation in the
number of nodes with available slots is in Fig. 3.
We observe that the online rate of nodes on both Sepolia testnet
and mainnet is consistently high, at approximately 85%. However,
there exists a stark contrast in the proportion of nodes with avail-
able inbound connection slots: around 30% of Sepolia nodes have
available slots, compared to only about 3% on mainnet. This indi-
cates that while overall node availability is similar, Sepolia exhibits
significantly greater slot openness.
Table 6: Measurement of Nodes with Available Incoming
Connection Slots in the Entire Network
No. Network Average number of nodes
Online Offline with available slots
1500 Sepolia 1288 (85.9%) 212 (14.1%) 469 (31.3%)
5887 mainnet 4979 (84.6%) 908 (15.4%) 168 (2.8%)
No.: number of detected nodes
available slots: the available incoming connection slots

(a) Node Statistics on Sepolia Testnet
 (b) Node Statistics on Mainnet
Figure 3: Node Statistics in Ethereum P2P Network
(a) Available Slots Count Distribution on Sepolia Testnet
 (b) Available Slots Count Distribution on Mainnet
Figure 4: Available Slots Count in Ethereum P2P Network
Distribution of available slots quantity.We launched 100 at-
tack nodes on a public network server to actively occupy the idle
connection slots of Ethereum nodes with available slots. Addition-
ally, a dedicated detection node was deployed to verify whether all
available slots had been successfully filled.
The measurement results are summarized in Table 7 and Fig. 4.
It can be seen from the table that the number of nodes with less
than 10 available slots on Sepolia testnet and mainnet accounts for
the majority of the number of available slot nodes, which are 80.1%
and 62.7% respectively.
Table 7: Available Slots Distribution in Ethereum Nodes
No. Network Distribution of available slots
1-10 11-50 51-99 100+
362 Sepolia 290 (80.1%) 60 (16.6%) 5 (1.4%) 7 (1.9%)
102 mainnet 64 (62.7%) 10 (9.8%) 5 (4.9%) 23 (22.5%)
No.: number of nodes with available slots
Note: The detection duration for both networks was 7 hours.
E Pseudocode for Our Eclipse Attack
We provide implementation details of our attack (cf. Algorithm 1),
covering the main logic and several key functions.
In Algorithm 1, we give the detailed implementation process of
the eclipse attack against Ethereum, including the main control
logic and several key subprograms.
In the attack initialization phase, two sub threads are started
at the same time: one is to execute the db_pre_filling_attack
on the target node, polluting its local DB; the other is to execute
the dns_list_poisoning_attack on the official devp2p network
crawler node of Ethereum. Next, the attacker continuously monitors
whether the target node is online until it detects its restart.
After the target node restarts, the attacker immediately starts
three operations: 1) Execute occupy_available_slots_attack
on all nodes in the network, and try to preempt the incoming
connection slots of all active nodes, so that the target node cannot re-
establish the connection with the benign nodes when it restarts; 2)
Perform the discovery_table_poisoning_attack on the target
node to ensure that the attacking nodes are dominant in its restarted
discovery table; 3) Start to occupy_in_connections of the target
node and make it connected by attacking nodes.
Upon the above operations are executed, the attack main loop
starts to run: continuously obtain the current number of incoming
connections and outgoing connections (get_occupied_incon and
get_occupied_outcon) of the target node, and compare them with
the maximum number of allowed connections (34 and 16 respec-
tively). As long as the connection slots are still unoccupied, the
attacker will continue to launch connection attempts.

Algorithm 1:OurEclipse Attackagainst Ethereum
Input:TargetNode= (target_ip,target_port)
Data:OccupiedInConnections= 0,
OccupiedOutConnections= 0,
AllActiveNodes= nodes in Ethereum Sepolia testnet,
OfficialDevp2pNode= the Ethereum official devp2p crawl node,
N= the rounds of db filling attack,
AttackNodes= our controlled nodes,
MaxInConnectionsOf TargetNode= 34,
MaxOutConnectionsOf TargetNode= 16
1 StartThread(db_pre_filling_attack(AttackNodes,TargetNode,N))
2 StartThread(dns_list_poisoning_attack(AttackNodes,OfficialDevp2pNode))
3 whileis_target_online(TargetNode)do
4 wait()
5 StartThread(occupy_available_slots(AttackNodes,AllActiveNodes))
6 wait_for(TargetNode_reboot())
7 StartThread(discovery_table_poisoning_attack(AttackNodes,
TargetNode))
8 StartThread(occupy_in_connections(AttackNodes,TargetNode))
9 whileOccupiedOutConnections<MaxOutConnectionsOf TargetNodeand
OccupiedInConnections<MaxInConnectionsOf TargetNodedo
10OccupiedOutConnections=get_occupied_outcon(TargetNode)
11OccupiedInConnections=get_occupied_incon(TargetNode)
12 returnok
13
14 Subroutines
15 discovery_table_poisoning_attack(attack_node_set,target_node)
Data:param1:attack_node_set, param2:target_node;
16 foreachattack_nodeinattack_node_setdo
17attack_node.send_ping(target_node)
18attack_node.wait_pong(target_node)
19attack_node.send_pong(target_node)
20attack_node.wait_findnode(target_node)
21attack_node.send_neighbors(AttackNodes)
22attack_node.wait_enrrequest(target_node)
23attack_node.send_enrresponse(target_node)
24 db_pre_filling_attack(attack_node_set,target_node,N)
Data:param1:attack_node_set, param2:target_node, param3:N;
25 fori = 0inNdo
26 discovery_table_poisoning_attack(attack_node_set,target_node)
27 dns_list_poisoning_attack(attack_node_set,official_node)
Data:param1:attack_node_set, param2:official_node;
28 whiletruedo
29 discovery_table_poisoning_attack(attack_node_set,
official_node)
30 occupy_available_slots(attack_node_set,node_set)
Data:param1:attack_node_set, param2:node_set;
31 foreachattack_nodeinattack_node_setdo
32 foreachnodeinnode_setdo
33attack_node.connect(node)
34 occupy_in_connections(attack_node_set,target_node)
Data:param1:attack_node_set, param2:target_node;
35 foreachattack_nodeinattack_node_setdo
36attack_node.connect(target_node)
37 get_occupied_outcon(attack_node_set)
Data:param1:attack_node_set;
38 returncount of outbound connections toattack_node_set
39 get_occupied_incon(attack_node_set)
Data:param1:attack_node_set;
40 returncount of inbound connections fromattack_node_set
When the incoming and outgoing connections of the target node
are all controlled by the attacking nodes, it means that the node is
completely isolated from the honest network, and the eclipse attack
is successfully completed.
F Features of Ethereum 2.0’s P2P Network
We extend our discussion in §1. We presents key features of Ethereum
2.0’s P2P network. We focus on the validator behaviors in PoS and
the importance of client diversity.
Long-term online presence of PoS validators.In PoS systems,
validators are expected to maintain a persistent online presence,
which is critical for ensuring the security, availability, and liveness
of the network. Unlike miners in PoW systems who can participate
sporadically, PoS validators are continuously involved in block pro-
posal and finalization processes. Their availability directly impacts
the network’s ability to reach consensus finality.
The validators who remain offline not only miss out on rewards
but also incur economic penalties [49]. These include being grad-
ually penalized for inactivity and potentially being slashed for
prolonged downtime or misconduct. This financial incentive struc-
ture encourages validators to keep their nodes online and reliably
connected.
To further ensure network resilience, Ethereum implements an
inactivity leak mechanism: when a significant portion of validators
go offline, their stake influence is gradually reduced, enabling the
remaining active validators to finalize the chain. This design un-
derscores the importance of validator uptime in maintaining the
health and security of PoS-based blockchains.
Client diversity.In Ethereum’s current architecture, clients are
divided into two categories: the Execution Layer and the Consensus
Layer. The Execution Layer handles transaction execution and state
updates, while the Consensus Layer is responsible for verifying
consensus and finalizing blocks. Execution clients such as Geth,
Nethermind, Erigon, and Besu process transactions, maintain state,
and propagate blocks. In contrast, consensus clients like Prysm,
Lighthouse, Teku, Nimbus, and Lodestar verify blocks, maintain
the beacon chain, and generate consensus.
This modular design enhances the system’s flexibility and re-
silience, allowing users to freely pair execution and consensus
clients according to their needs. However, the usage distribution
among clients remains imbalanced [50]. Clients like Geth and Prysm
still dominate market share, posing a risk of centralization. As a
result, the Ethereum community places strong emphasis on client
diversity, encouraging node operators to adopt a variety of imple-
mentations to improve the network’s robustness and security.
Yuxuan Liang1, Zijun Guo1, Qin Wang2, Lina Lan1„ Chenfeng Wang1, Zhuoyi Zheng1„