IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY , VOL. 52, NO. 6, JUNE 2006 2551
Raptor Codes
Amin Shokrollahi, Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract— LT-codes are a new class of codes introduced by Luby
for the purpose of scalable and fault-tolerant distribution of data
over computer networks. In this paper, we introduce Raptor codes,
an extension of LT-codes with linear time encoding and decoding.
We will exhibit a class of universal Raptor codes: for a given in-
teger
 and any real
 /48, Raptor codes in this class produce a
potentially inﬁnite stream of symbols such that any subset of sym-
bols of size
 /40/49 /43
/41is sufﬁcient to recover the original
 sym-
bols with high probability. Each output symbol is generated using
/40/108/111/103/40/49
/41/41operations, and the original symbols are recovered
from the collected ones with
 /40
/108/111/103/40/49
/41/41operations.
We will also introduce novel techniques for the analysis of the
error probability of the decoder for ﬁnite length Raptor codes.
Moreover, we will introduce and analyze systematic versions of
Raptor codes, i.e., versions in which the ﬁrst output elements of
the coding system coincide with the original
 elements.
Index Terms— Binary erasure channel (BEC), graphical codes,
LT-codes, networking.
I. I NTRODUCTION
T
HE binary erasure channel (BEC) of communication was
introduced by Elias [1] in 1955, but it was regarded as a
rather theoretical channel model until the large-scale deploy-
ment of the Internet about 40 years later.
On the Internet, data is transmitted in the form of packets.
Each packet is equipped with a header that describes the source
and the destination of the packet, and often also a sequence
number describing the absolute or relative position of the packet
within a given stream. These packets are routed on the network
from the sender to the receiver. Due to various reasons, for ex-
ample buffer overﬂows at the intermediate routers, some packets
may get lost and never reach their destination. Other packets
may be declared as lost if the internal checksum of the packet
does not match. Therefore, the Internet is a very good real-world
model of the BEC.
Reliable transmission of data over the Internet has been the
subject of much research. For the most part, reliability is guar-
anteed by use of appropriate protocols. For example, the ubiq-
uitous TCP/IP ensures reliability by essentially retransmitting
packets within a transmission window whose reception has not
been acknowledged by the receiver (or packets for which the re-
ceiver has explicitly sent a negative acknowledgment). It is well
known that such protocols exhibit poor behavior in many cases,
such as transmission of data from one server to multiple re-
ceivers, or transmission of data over heavily impaired channels,
Manuscript received March 14, 2005; revised September 12, 2005. Work on
this project was performed while the author was a full time employee of Digital
Fountain, Inc.
The author is with the School of Basic Sciences, and School of Computer Sci-
ence and Communications, Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL),
1015 Lausanne, Switzerland (e-mail: amin.shokrollahi@epﬂ.ch).
Communicated by R. Koetter, Guest Editor.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TIT.2006.874390
such as poor wireless or satellite links. Moreover, ack-based
protocols such as TCP perform poorly when the distance be-
tween the sender and the receiver is long, since large distances
lead to idle times during which the sender waits for an acknowl-
edgment and cannot send data.
For these reasons, other transmission solutions have been pro-
posed. One class of such solutions is based on coding. The orig-
inal data is encoded using some linear erasure correcting code.
If during the transmission some part of the data is lost, then it
is possible to recover the lost data using erasure correcting al-
gorithms. For applications it is crucial that the codes used are
capable of correcting as many erasures as possible, and it is
also crucial that the encoding and decoding algorithms for these
codes are very fast.
Elias showed that the capacity of the BEC with erasure prob-
ability
 equals
 . He further proved that random codes of
rates arbitrarily close to
 can be decoded on this channel
with an exponentially small error probability using maximum-
likelihood (ML) decoding. In the case of the erasure channel,
ML decoding of linear codes is equivalent to solving systems
of linear equations. This task can be done in polynomial time
using Gaussian elimination. However, Gaussian elimination is
not fast enough, especially when the length of the code is long.
Reed–Solomon codes can be used to partially compensate
for the inefﬁciency of random codes. Reed–Solomon codes can
be decoded from a block with the maximum possible number
of erasures in time quadratic in the dimension. (There are
faster algorithms based on fast polynomial arithmetic, but these
algorithms are often too complicated in practice.) However,
quadratic running times are still too large for many applications.
In [2], the authors construct codes with linear time encoding
and decoding algorithms that can come arbitrarily close to the
capacity of the BEC. These codes, called Tornado codes, are
very similar to Gallager’s low-density parity-check (LDPC)
codes [3], but they use a highly irregular weight distribution for
the underlying graphs.
The running times of the encoding and decoding algorithms
for Tornado codes are proportional to their block length rather
than to their dimension. Therefore, for small rates, the encoding
and decoding algorithms for these codes are slow. This turns
out to be quite limiting in many applications, such as those de-
scribed in [4], since the codes used there are of extremely low
rate. This suggests that the encoding/decoding times of tradi-
tional coding technologies may not be adequate for the design
of scalable data transmission systems.
There are more disadvantages of traditional block codes when
it comes to their use for data transmission. The model of a single
erasure channel is not adequate for cases where data is to be sent
concurrently from one sender to many receivers. In this case, the
erasure channels from the sender to each of the receivers have
0018-9448/$20.00 © 2006 IEEE

2552 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY , VOL. 52, NO. 6, JUNE 2006
potentially different erasure probabilities. Typically in applica-
tions, the sender or the receiver may probe their channels so the
sender has a reasonable guess of the current erasure probability
of the channel and can adjust the coding rate accordingly. But
if the number of receivers is large, or in situations such as satel-
lite or wireless transmission where receivers experience sudden
abrupt changes in their reception characteristics, it becomes un-
realistic to assume and keep track of the loss rates of individual
receivers. The sender is then forced to assume a worst case loss
rate for all the receivers. This not only puts unnecessary burdens
on the network if the actual loss rate is smaller, but also compro-
mises reliable transmission if the actual loss rate is larger than
the one provisioned for.
Therefore, to construct robust and reliable transmission
schemes, a new class of codes is needed. Fountain codes
constitute such a class, and they address all the above men-
tioned issues. They were ﬁrst mentioned without an explicit
construction in [4]. A Fountain code produces for a given set of
input symbols
 a potentially limitless stream of
output symbols
 . The input and output symbols can be
bits, or more generally, they can be binary vectors of arbitrary
length. The output symbols are produced independently and
randomly, according to a given distribution on
 . Each output
symbol is the addition of some of the input symbols, and we
suppose that the output symbol is equipped with information
describing which input symbols it is the addition of. In practice,
this information can be either a part of the symbol (e.g., using a
header in a packet), or it can be obtained via time-synchroniza-
tion between the sender and the receiver, or it may be obtained
by other application-dependent means. A decoding algorithm
for a Fountain code is an algorithm which can recover the
original
 input symbols from any set of
 output symbols with
high probability. For good Fountain codes the value of
 is very
close to
 , and the decoding time is close to linear in
 .
Fountain codes are ideally suited for transmitting information
over computer networks. A server sending data to many recip-
ients can implement a Fountain code for a given piece of data
to generate a potentially in ﬁnite stream of packets. As soon as
a receiver requests data, the packets are copied and forwarded
to the recipient. In a broadcast transmission model there is no
need for copying the data since any outgoing packet is received
by all the receivers. In other types of networks, the copying can
be done actively by the sender, or it can be done by the network,
for example if multicast is enabled. The recipient collects the
output symbols, and leaves the transmission as soon as it has
received
 of them. At that time it uses the decoding algorithm
to recover the original
 symbols. Note that the number
 is
the same regardless of the channel characteristics between the
sender and the receiver. More loss of symbols just translates to a
longer waiting time to receive the
 packets. If
 can be chosen
to be arbitrarily close to
 , then the corresponding Fountain code
has a universality property in the sense that it operates close to
capacity for any erasure channel with erasure probability less
than
 .
Fountain codes have also other very desirable properties. For
example, since each output symbol is generated independently
of any other one, a receiver may collect output symbols gener-
ated from the same set of
 input symbols, but by different de-
vices operating a Fountain encoder. This allows for the design
of massively scalable and fault-tolerant communication systems
over packet-based networks. In this paper, we will not address
these and other applications, but will instead focus on the theory
of such codes.
In order to make Fountain codes work in practice, one needs
to ensure that they possess a fast encoder and decoder, and that
the decoder is capable of recovering the original symbols from
any set of output symbols whose size is close to optimal with
high probability. We call such Fountain codes universal. The
ﬁrst class of such universal Fountain codes was invented by
Luby [5]–[7]. The codes in this class are called LT-codes.
The distribution used for generating the output symbols lies
at the heart of LT-codes. Every time an output symbol is gen-
erated in an LT-code, a weight distribution is sampled which
returns an integer
 between
 and the number
 of input sym-
bols. Then
 random distinct input symbols are chosen, and their
value is added to yield the value of that output symbol. Decoding
of LT-codes is similar to that of LDPC codes over the erasure
channel and is described later in Section III. Whether or not the
decoding algorithm is successful depends solely on the output
degree distribution.
It can be shown (see Proposition 1) that if an LT-code has a
decoding algorithm with a probability of error that is at most in-
versely polynomial in the number of input symbols, and if the
algorithm needs
 output symbols to operate, then the average
weight of an output symbol needs to be at least
 for
some constant
 . Hence, in the desirable case where
 is close
to
 , the output symbols of the LT-code need to have an average
weight of
 . It is absolutely remarkable that it is pos-
sible to construct a weight distribution that matches this lower
bound via a fast decoder. Such distributions were exhibited by
Luby [7].
For many applications it is important to construct universal
Fountain codes for which the average weight of an output
symbol is a constant and which have fast decoding algorithms.
In this paper, we introduce such a class of Fountain codes,
called Raptor codes . The basic idea behind Raptor codes is
a precoding of the input symbols prior to the application of
an appropriate LT-code (see Section IV). In the asymptotic
setting, we will design a class of universal Raptor codes with
linear time encoders and decoders for which the probability of
decoding failure converges to
 polynomially fast in the number
of input symbols. This will be the topic of Section VI.
In practical applications it is important to bound the error
probability of the decoder. The bounds obtained from the
asymptotic analysis of Section VI are rather poor. Therefore,
we develop in Section VII analytic tools for the design of ﬁnite
length Raptor codes which exhibit very low decoding error
probabilities, and we will exemplify our methods by designing
a speci ﬁc Raptor code with guaranteed bounds on its error
performance.
One of the disadvantages of LT- or Raptor codes is that
they are not systematic. This means that the input symbols
are not necessarily reproduced among the output symbols.
The straightforward idea of transmitting the input symbols
prior to the output symbols produced by the coding system is
easily seen to be ﬂawed, since this does not guarantee a high

SHOKROLLAHI: RAPTOR CODES 2553
probability of decodability from any subset of received output
symbols. In Section VIII, we develop a new set of ideas and
design efﬁcient systematic versions of Raptor codes.
Raptor codes were discovered in the late 2000, and patented
in late 2001 [8]. Independently, Maymounkov [9] later discov-
ered the idea of precoding to obtain linear time codes. His results
are similar to parts of Section VI.
Raptor codes have been highly optimized and are being used
in commercial systems of Digital Fountain, a Silicon Valley
based startup specializing in fast and reliable delivery of data
over heterogeneous networks. The Raptor implementation of
Digital Fountain reaches speeds of several gigabits per second,
on a 2.4-GHz Intel Xeon processor, while ensuring very strin-
gent conditions on the error probability of the decoder, even for
very short lengths. A version of Raptor codes that works for
small lengths and requires very little processing power has re-
cently been selected as Global Standard for Reliable Broadcast
of Multimedia to 3G Mobile Devices. The full text of the stan-
dard, together with details of the design can be found at [10].
Finally, let us summarize the main results of this paper.
• Introduction of Raptor codes in Section IV.
• Design of Raptor codes with good asymptotic perfor-
mance in Section VI: Here, we design Raptor codes that
can come arbitrarily close to the capacity of any unknown
erasure channel, with linear time encoding and decoding
algorithms.
• Design and analysis of ﬁnite-length Raptor codes in Sec-
tion VII: In this section, we introduce methods to design
and analyze Raptor codes for moderate lengths. We also
give speciﬁc designs with guarantees on the error proba-
bility of the decoding error.
• Systematic Raptor codes in Section VIII: In many prac-
tical situations, it is important to have a systematic Raptor
code. The straightforward solution would be to send the
original data, prior to sending the data produced by the
Raptor code. However, for even moderate loss rates, this
solution does not work. Section VIII introduces a new
method; this method produces from the source symbols
a series of “intermediate symbols,” from which the non-
systematic symbols are produced.
II. D ISTRIBUTIONS ON
Let
 be a positive integer. The dual space of
 is the space of
linear forms in
 variables with coefﬁcients in
 . This space is
noncanonically isomorphic to
 via the isomorphism mapping
the vector
 with respect to the standard basis to the
linear form
 . A probability distribution on
induces a probability distribution on the dual space of
 with
respect to this isomorphism. For the rest of this paper, we will
use this isomorphism and will freely and implicitly interchange
distributions on
 and its dual.
Let
 be a distribution on
 so that
denotes the probability that the value
 is chosen. Often we
will denote this distribution by its generator polynomial
. For example, using this notation, the expectation
of this distribution is succinctly given by
 , where
is the derivative of
 with respect to
 . Although we will
almost always assume that
 , we will keep this notation
for convenience.
The distribution
 induces a distribution on
 (and hence
on its dual) in the following way: For any vector
 , the
probability of
 is
 , where
 is the weight of
 . A simple
sampling algorithm for this distribution would be to sampleﬁrst
from the distribution
 to obtain a weight
 , and then to
sample a vector of weight
 in
 uniformly at random. By
abuse of notation, we will in the following denote the distribu-
tion induced by
 on
 by
 as well.
As an example we mention that the uniform distribution on
is given by the generating polynomial
 .
III. F OUNTAIN CODES AND LT-CODES
The theoretical idea of Fountain codes was introduced in [4]
and the ﬁrst practical realizations of Fountain codes were in-
vented by Luby [5] –[7]. They represent a new class of linear
error-correcting codes. Let
 be a positive integer, and let
 be
a degree distribution on
 . A Fountain code with parameters
has as its domain the space
 of binary strings of length
, and as its target space the set of all sequences over
 , de-
noted by
 . Formally, a Fountain code with parameters
is a linear map
 in which the coordinates are indepen-
dent random variables with distribution
 over
 . The block
length of a Fountain code is potentially in ﬁnite, but in appli-
cations we will solely consider truncated Fountain codes, i.e.,
Fountain codes with ﬁnitely many coordinates, and make fre-
quent and implicit use of the fact that unlike traditional codes
the length of a Fountain code is not ﬁxed a priori.
The symbols produced by a Fountain code are called output
symbols, and the
 symbols from which these output symbols
are calculated are called input symbols. The input and output
symbols could be elements of
 , or more generally, the ele-
ments of any ﬁnite-dimensional vector space over
 (or more
generally, over any ﬁeld
 ).
Encoding of a Fountain code is rather straightforward: for a
given vector
 of input symbols, each output symbol
is generated independently and randomly byﬁrst sampling from
the distribution
 to obtain a weight
 between
 and
 . Next, a
vector
 of weight
 is chosen uniformly at random
from
 and the value of the output symbol is calculated as
. We will not be concerned with the cost of sampling
from the distribution
 over
 , as this will be trivial in our ap-
plications. The encoding cost of a Fountain code is the expected
number of operations suf ﬁcient to calculate an output symbol.
This is easily seen to be at most
 , where
 is the expected
Hamming weight of the random variable with distribution
over
 .
In addition to conceptual differences between Fountain codes
and block codes there is also an important operational difference
between these classes of codes. For a traditional block code,
the structure of the code is determined prior to its use for trans-
mission of information. This is also true for randomized block
codes, such as random LDPC codes. On the other hand, in prac-
tice, Fountain codes are generated “online.” Each set of input
symbols may have its own associated Fountain code. There are
various advantages to this mode of operation of Fountain codes

2554 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY , VOL. 52, NO. 6, JUNE 2006
such as those described in Luby ’s paper [7], in Luby ’s patents
on this subject [5], [6], or in [4].
In this paper, we will consider Fountain codes over a memory-
less BEC with erasure probability
 . Even though all our results
also hold for more general and not necessarily memoryless era-
sure channels, we will only consider the memoryless case for
sake of simplicity.
A reliable decoding algorithm of length
 for a Fountain code
is an algorithm which can recover the
 input symbols from any
set of
 output symbols and errs with a probability that is at
most inversely polynomial in
 (i.e., the error probability is at
most
 for some positive constant
 ). Often, we will skip the
term reliable and only talk about an algorithm of length
 . The
cost of such a decoding algorithm is the (expected) number of its
arithmetic operations divided by
 . This is equal to the average
cost of recovering each input symbol.
When transmitting information using a traditional code, both
the sender and the receiver are in possession of a description of
the coding method used. For Fountain codes this is not neces-
sarily the case, since the code is being generated concurrently
with the transmission. Therefore, in order to be able to recover
the original information from the output symbols, it is necessary
to transmit a description of the code together with the output
symbols. In a setting where the symbols correspond to packets in
a computer network, one can augment each transmission packet
with a header information that describes the set of input sym-
bols from which this output symbol was generated. We refer the
reader to Luby [7], [5], [6] for a description of different methods
for accomplishing this. In this paper, we will implicitly assume
that the structure of the Fountain code is transmitted together
with the code using one of the many existing methods.
A special class of Fountain codes is furnished by LT-codes.
In this class, the distribution
 has the form
 described
in Section II. It is relatively easy to prove an information-theo-
retic lower bound on the encoding/decoding cost of any LT-code
which has a decoding algorithm of length approximately equal
to
 . We will prove the lower bound in terms of the number of
edges in the decoding graph. The decoding graph of an algo-
rithm of length
 is a bipartite graph with
 nodes on the one
side (called the input nodes or the input symbols) and
 nodes on
the other (called the output nodes or the output symbols). There
is an edge between an input symbol and an output symbol if the
input symbol contributes to the value of the output symbol.
The following proposition shows that the decoding graph of
a reliable decoding algorithm has at least an order of
edges. Therefore, if the number
 of collected output symbols
is close to
 , then the encoding cost of the code is at least of the
order of
 .
Proposition 1: If an LT-code with
 input symbols possesses
a reliable decoding algorithm, then there is a constant
 such that
the graph associated to the decoder has at least
 edges.
Proof: Suppose that the Fountain code has parameters
. In the decoding graph, we call an input node covered
if it is the neighbor of at least one output node. Otherwise, we
call the node uncovered. The error probability of the decoder
is lower-bounded by the probability that there is an uncovered
input node. We will establish a relationship between this prob-
ability and the average degree of an output node.
Let
 denote the decoding graph of the algorithm.
 is a
random bipartite graph between
 input and
 output nodes such
that each output node is of degree
 with probability
 , and
such that the neighbors of an output node are randomly chosen.
Let
 be an input node in
 . If an output node is of degree
 ,
then the probability that
 is not a neighbor of that output node
is
 . Since the output node is of degree
 with probability
, the probability that
 is not a neighbor of an output node is
where
 is the average degree of an output node. Since
output nodes are constructed independently, the probability that
is not a neighbor of any of the output nodes is
 .
We may assume that
 . Then the Taylor expansion of
shows that
 and
hence
 , where
 is the av-
erage degree of an input node. Since the decoder is assumed to
be reliable, it errs with probability at most
 for some con-
stant
 . This shows that
 , i.e.,
This completes the proof.
In the following, we will give some examples of Fountain
codes, and study different decoding algorithms. A random
LT-code is an LT-code with parameters
 where
. As discussed earlier, this choice for
amounts to the uniform distribution on
 , which explains the
name.
Proposition 2: A random LT-code with
 input symbols has
encoding cost
 , and ML decoding is a reliable decoding al-
gorithm for this code of overhead
 .
Proof: Since the expected weight of a vector in
 under
uniform distribution is
 , the encoding cost of the random
LT-code is
 .
In the case of the erasure channel, the ML decoding algorithm
amounts to Gaussian elimination: we collect
 output symbols
(the value of
 will be determined shortly). Each received output
symbol represents a linear equation (with coefﬁcients in
 )i n
the unknown input values
 , and thus the decoding
process can be viewed as solving a (consistent) system of
linear equations in
 unknowns. The decoding cost of this algo-
rithm is
 , since Gaussian elimination can be performed
using
 operations.
It is well known that a necessary and suf ﬁcient condition
for the solvability of this system is that the rank of the corre-
sponding matrix is equal to
 . The entries of this matrix are

SHOKROLLAHI: RAPTOR CODES 2555
independent binary random variables with equal probability of
being one or zero. We will now prove that the probability that
this matrix is not of full rank is at most
 . This is shown by
using a union bound. For each hyperplane in
 the probability
that all the rows of the matrix belong to the hyperplane is
 .
There are
 hyperplanes. Therefore, the probability that
the matrix is not of full rank is at most
 .
Choosing
 , we see that the error probability of
ML decoding becomes
 , which proves the claim.
Gaussian elimination is computationally expensive for dense
codes like random LT-codes. For properly designed LT-codes,
the belief-propagation (BP) decoder [2], [7] provides a much
more efﬁcient decoder. The BP decoder can be best described
in terms of the graph associated to the decoder. It performs the
following steps until either no output symbols of degree one are
present in the graph, or until all the input symbols have been
recovered. At each step of the algorithm, the decoder identiﬁes
an output symbol of degree one. If none exists, and not all the
input symbols have been recovered, the algorithm reports a de-
coding failure. Otherwise, the value of the output symbol of de-
gree one recovers the value of its unique neighbor among the
input symbols. Once this input symbol value is recovered, its
value is added to the values of all the neighboring output sym-
bols, and the input symbols and all edges emanating from it are
removed from the graph.
For random LT-codes the BP decoder fails miserably even
when the number of collected output symbols is very large.
Thus, the design of the degree distribution
 must be dra-
matically different from the random distribution to guarantee
the success of the BP decoder.
The analysis of the BP decoding algorithm is more compli-
cated than the analysis of ML decoding. For the sake of com-
pleteness, we include a short expectation analysis for the case
where every output symbol chooses its neighbors among the
input symbols randomly and with replacement. We refer the
reader to [7] for the analysis of the original case where the
choice is done without replacement.
As described above, the BP decoder proceeds in steps, and
recovers one input symbol at each step. Following Luby’s nota-
tion, we call the set of output symbols of reduced degree one the
output ripple at step
 of the algorithm. We say that an output
symbol is released at step
 if its degree is larger than
 at
step
 , and it is equal to one at step
 , so that recovery of
the input symbol at step
 reduces the degree of the output
symbol to one. The probability that an output symbol of initial
degree
 releases at step
 can be easily calculated as fol-
lows: This is the probability that the output symbol has exactly
one neighbor among the
 input symbols that are not
yet recovered, and that not all the remaining
 neighbors
are among the
 already recovered input symbols. The proba-
bility that the output symbol has exactly one neighbor among
the unrecovered input symbols, and that all its other neighbors
are within a set of size
 contained in the set of remaining input
symbols is
 , since we are assuming that the
output symbol chooses its neighbors with replacement. There-
fore,
output symbol is released at step
 is
Multiplying the term with the probability
 that the degree of
the symbol is
 , and summing over all
 we obtain
output symbol is released at step
Note that
The approximation is very good if
 for constant
and large
 .
Suppose that the decoder collects
 output symbols. Then the
expected number of output symbols releasing at step
 is
times the probability that an output symbol releases at step
 ,
which, by the above, is approximately equal to
In order to construct asymptotically optimal codes, i.e., codes
that can recover the
 input symbols from any
 output symbols
for values of
 arbitrarily close to
 , we require that every de-
coded input symbol releases exactly one output symbol. Thus,
in the limit, we require
 , and we require that the output
ripple has expected size one at every step. This means that
for
 . Solving this differential equation,
and keeping in mind that
 , we obtain the Soliton dis-
tribution
The distribution is similar to the ideal Soliton distribution of
Luby [7], except that it assigns a probability of zero to degree
one, and has inﬁnitely many terms.
The distribution of the size of the output ripple at each point
in time is more difﬁcult to calculate and we refer the reader to
the upcoming paper [11] for details.
The reader is referred to Luby ’s paper for a description of
LT-codes with a distribution
 with
and for which the BP decoder is a reliable decoder of overhead
. These degree distributions are absolutely re-
markable, since they lead to an extremely simple decoding al-
gorithm that essentially matches the information-theoretic lower
bound in Proposition 1.
IV . RAPTOR CODES
The results of the previous section imply that LT-codes
cannot be encoded with constant cost if the number of collected
output symbols is close to the number of input symbols. In this
section, we will present a different class of Fountain codes. One
of the many advantages of the new construction is that it allows
for encoding and decoding with constant cost, as we will see
below.
The reason behind the lower bound of
 for the cost of
LT-codes is the information-theoretic lower bound of Proposi-

2556 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY , VOL. 52, NO. 6, JUNE 2006
Fig. 1. Raptor codes: the input symbols are appended by redundant symbols (black squares) in the case of a systematic pre-code. An appropriate LT-code is used
to generate output symbols from the pre-coded input symbols.
tion 1. The decoding graph needs to have an order of
edges in order to make sure that all the input nodes are cov-
ered with high probability. The idea of Raptor coding is to relax
this condition and require that only a constant fraction of the
input symbols be recoverable. Then the same information-the-
oretic argument as before shows only a linear lower bound for
the number of edges in the decoding graph.
There are two potential problems with this approach: 1) The
information-theoretic lower bound may not be matchable with
an algorithm, and 2) we need to recover all the input symbols,
not only a constant fraction.
The second issue is addressed easily: we encode the input
symbols using a traditional erasure correcting code, and then
apply an appropriate LT-code to the new set of symbols in a
way that the traditional code is capable of recovering all the
input symbols even in face of a ﬁxed fraction of erasures. To
deal with the ﬁrst issue, we need to design the traditional code
and the LT-code appropriately.
Let
 be a linear code of block length
 and dimension
 , and
let
 be a degree distribution. ARaptor codewith parameters
is an LT-code with distribution
 on
 symbols
which are the coordinates of codewords in
 . The code
 is
called the pre-code of the Raptor code. The input symbols of a
Raptor code are the
 symbols used to construct the codeword in
consisting of
 intermediate symbols. The output symbols are
the symbols generated by the LT-code from the
 intermediate
symbols. A graphical presentation of a Raptor code is given in
Fig. 1. Typically, we assume that
 is equipped with a systematic
encoding, though this is not necessary.
A moment’s thought reveals that Raptor codes form a sub-
class of Fountain codes: The output distribution
 and aﬁxed
pre-code
 induce a distribution
 on
 , where
 is the number
of input symbols of the Raptor code. The output symbols of the
Raptor code are sampled independently from the distribution
 .
A Raptor code has an obvious encoding algorithm as follows:
given
 input symbols, an encoding algorithm for
 is used to
generate a codeword in
 corresponding to the input symbols.
Then an encoding algorithm for the LT-code with distribution
is used to generate the output symbols.
A reliable decoding algorithm of length
 for a Raptor code
is an algorithm which can recover the
 input symbols from any
set of
 output symbols and errs with probability which is at
most
 for some positive constant
 . As with LT-codes, we
sometimes omit mentioning the attribute “reliable.”
The deﬁnition of the encoding cost of a Raptor code differs
slightly from that of a Fountain code. This is because the en-
coding cost of the pre-code has to be taken into account. We
deﬁne the encoding cost of a Raptor code as
 ,
where
 is the number of arithmetic operations sufﬁcient for
generating a codeword in
 from the
 input symbols. The en-
coding cost equals the per-symbol cost of generating
 output
symbols.
The decoding cost of a decoding algorithm for a Raptor code
is the expected number of arithmetic operations sufﬁcient to re-
cover the
 input symbols, divided by
 . As with the Fountain
codes, this cost counts the expected number of arithmetic oper-
ations per input symbol.
We will study Raptor codes with respect to the following per-
formance parameters.
1) Space: Since Raptor codes require storage for the inter-
mediate symbols, it is important to study their space con-
sumption. We will count the space as a multiple of the
number of input symbols. The space requirement of the
Raptor code is
 , where
 is the rate of the pre-code.
2) Overhead: The overhead is a function of the decoding al-
gorithm used, and is deﬁned as the number of output sym-
bols that the decoder needs to collect in order to recover
the input symbols with high probability, minus the number
of input symbols. We will measure the overhead as a mul-
tiple of the number
 of input symbols, so an overhead of
, for example, means that
 output symbols need
to be collected to ensure successful decoding with high
probability.
3) Cost: The cost of the encoding and the decoding process.
In the next section we will give several examples of Raptor
codes and study their performance.
V. FIRST EXAMPLES OF RAPTOR CODES
The ﬁrst example of a Raptor code is an LT-code. An LT-code
with
 input symbols and output distribution
 is a Raptor
code with parameters
 .(
 is the trivial code of
dimension and block length
 .) LT-codes have optimal space
consumption (i.e.,
 ). With an appropriate output distribution
the overhead of an LT-code is
 , and its
cost is proportional to
 , as was seen in Section III.
LT-codes have no pre-coding, and compensate for the lack of
it by using a very intricate output distribution
 . At the other
end of the spectrum are Raptor codes that have the simplest pos-
sible output distribution, with a sophisticated pre-code, which
we call pre-code-only (PCO) Raptor codes. Let
 be a code of
dimension
 and block length
 . A Raptor code with parameters
is called a PCO Raptor code with pre-code
 . In this
code, the
 input symbols are encoded via
 to produce the


SHOKROLLAHI: RAPTOR CODES 2557
intermediate symbols and the output distribution is ﬁxed to the
trivial distribution
 . The value of every output symbol
equals that of an input symbol chosen uniformly at random.
The decoding algorithm for a PCO Raptor code is the trivial
one: a predetermined number
 of output symbols are collected.
These will determine the values of, say,
 intermediate symbols.
Next the decoding algorithm for the pre-code is applied to these
recovered intermediate values to obtain the values of the input
symbols.
The performance of a PCO Raptor code depends on the per-
formance of its pre-code
 , as the following result suggests.
Proposition 3: Let
 be a linear code of dimension
 and
block length
 with encoding and decoding algorithms that have
the following properties.
1) An arbitrary input vector of length
 can be encoded with
arithmetic operations for some
 .
2) There is an
 such that the decoding algorithm can
decode
 over a BEC with erasure probability
with high probability using
 arithmetic operations for
some
 .
Then the PCO Raptor code with pre-code
 has space consump-
tion
 , overhead
 , encoding cost
, and decoding cost
 with respect to the decoding algorithm
for
 , where
 is the rate of
 .
Proof: The space consumption and the costs of en-
coding/decoding are clear. As for the overhead, suppose that
the decoder collects
output symbols. We need to show that the probability that an
intermediate symbol is not covered is at most
 ,
since if this condition is satisﬁed, then the decoder for the pre-
code can decode the input symbols. To show the latter, note that
the probability that an intermediate symbol is not covered is
which is upper bounded by
 .
Note that the overhead of the PCO Raptor code in the previous
proposition is at least
 , since
for
 . Moreover, the overhead approaches
this upper bound only if
 approaches zero. Therefore, to obtain
PCO Raptor codes with close to optimal overhead the rate of the
pre-code needs to approach zero, which means that the running
time of the code cannot be a constant. The same is true for the
space consumption of the PCO Raptor code.
Despite these obvious shortcomings, PCO Raptor codes are
quite appealing, since this transforms any block code into a
Fountain code. For example, PCO Raptor codes could be useful
when the intermediate symbols (codeword in
 ) can be calcu-
lated ofﬂine via pre-processing, and the space needed to keep
these symbols is of no concern. In such a scenario, a PCO Raptor
codes is the fastest possible Fountain code.
The choice of the code
 depends on the speciﬁc application
in mind, though usually it is best to choose a code with very
good encoding and decoding algorithms and little overhead for
a given rate. One possible choice would be a Tornado code [2],
though other choices are also possible (for example an LT-code
with the appropriate number of output symbols, or an irregular
Repeat–Accumulate code [12], or an irregular Repeat–Accumu-
late code with bounded complexity [13]).
VI. R APTOR CODES WITH GOOD ASYMPTOTIC PERFORMANCE
In the preceding section, we encountered two types of Raptor
codes. For one of them, the LT-codes, the overhead was close
to
 , and the space was close to
 , while the decoding cost
grew with
 . For PCO Raptor codes, the decoding cost could be
chosen to be a constant, but then the overhead was away from
zero, and the space was away from
 ; moreover, convergence
to zero overhead amounted to letting the space and the cost to
grow with
 .
In this section, we will design Raptor codes between these
two extremes. These codes have encoding and decoding algo-
rithms of constant cost, and their space consumption and the
overhead are arbitrarily close to
 and
 , respectively. We will
design these codes by choosing an appropriate output distribu-
tion
 and an appropriate pre-code
 .
The output degree distribution we will use is very similar to
the Soliton distribution in Section III. However, this distribu-
tion needs to be slightly modiﬁed. First, the Soliton distribution
does not have output nodes of degree one. This means that it is
not possible to start the decoding process with this distribution.
Second, the Soliton distribution has inﬁnitely many terms. Our
distribution will modify the Soliton distribution by capping it at
some maximum degree
 , and giving it an appropriate weight
for output symbols of degree one.
Let
 be a real number larger than zero, set
 ,
and deﬁne
where
 . Then we have the following result.
Lemma 4: There exists a positive real number
 (depending
on
 ) such that with an error probability of at most
 any set
of
 output symbols of the LT-code with parame-
ters
 are sufﬁcient to recover at least
 input
symbols via BP decoding, where
 .
Proof: We use the analysis of the decoding process as de-
scribed in [2] or in [14]. Consider a set of
 output
symbols and set up the graph associated to these output sym-
bols. This graph is a random graph with edge degree distribu-
tions
 and
 corresponding to the input and the output
symbols, respectively. According to the analysis in [2], for any
constant
 ,i f
 for
 , then the prob-
ability that the decoder cannot recover
 or more of the input
nodes are upper-bounded by
 , where
 is a suitable constant
(depending on
 , and
 , but not on
 ).
In the case of an LT-code with parameters
 we have
. To compute
 , ﬁx an input node. The
probability that this node is the neighbor of a given output node
is
 , where
 is the average degree of an output node, i.e.,
. The probability that the input node is the neighbor
of exactly
 output nodes is therefore
 ,
where
 is the number of output symbols

2558 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY , VOL. 52, NO. 6, JUNE 2006
in the graph. Hence, the generating function of the degree dis-
tribution of the input nodes equals
The edge degree distribution
 of the input nodes is the
derivative of this polynomial with respect to
 , normalized so
that
 . This shows that
Since
 for
 , this implies
So, we only need to show that the right-hand side of this in-
equality is less than
 on
 , or, equivalently, that
for
Note that
We will show that
 for
 ,
which proves the inequality
To see that
 , note that the left-hand side
is monotonically increasing, so we only need to prove this in-
equality for
 . For the choice
 in the
statement of the lemma we have
So far, we have shown that
 .
So,
To complete the proof we need to show that
for
 . Note that
 . Therefore, the above
inequality is valid on the entire interval
 iff it is valid
at
 , i.e., iff
Plugging in the value of
 , it remains to show that
which is veriﬁed easily.
Note that the choices in the previous theorem are far from
optimal, but they sufﬁce to prove the asymptotic result.
To construct asymptotically good Raptor codes, we will use
LT-codes described in the previous lemma, and suitable pre-
codes. In the following we will assume that
 is a ﬁxed positive
real number, and we assume that for every
 we have a linear
code
 of block length
 with the following properties.
1) The rate
 of
 is
 ,
2) The BP decoder can decode
 on a BEC with erasure
probability
with
 arithmetic operations.
Examples of such codes are Tornado codes [2], right-reg-
ular codes [15], and certain types of Repeat –Accumulate
codes. The reader can consult [16] for other types of such
capacity-achieving examples. We remark, however, that it is
not necessary for
 to be capacity-achieving, since we only
require that the decoder be able to decode up to
fraction of erasures rather than
 . For example, we mention
without proof that the right-regular LDPC code with message
edge degree distribution
 can be used as the
pre-code
 .
Note that the second condition above could be weakened to
require that the decoder for
 works with
 arithmetic op-
erations (rather than
 ), since we do not require the
code to achieve capacity.
Theorem 5: Let
 be a positive real number,
 be an integer,
,
 ,
 ,
and let
 be a code with the properties described above. Then
the Raptor code with parameters
 has space con-
sumption
 , overhead
 , and a cost of
 with re-
spect to BP decoding of both the pre-code and the LT-code.
Proof: Given
 output symbols, we use the LT-code
with parameters
 to recover at least a
 -frac-
tion of the input symbols, where
 . Lemma 4
guarantees that this is possible. Next we use the BP decoder for
to recover the
 input symbols in linear time.
It remains to show the assertion on the cost. The average de-
gree of the distribution
 is


SHOKROLLAHI: RAPTOR CODES 2559
where
 is the harmonic sum up to
 . (One can show that
, where
 is Euler’s constant.) The number
of operations necessary for generating the redundant symbols
of
 is proportional to
 which is proportional to
. The same is true for the decoding cost of
 . This
proves the assertion on the cost.
A careful look at the decoder described above shows that its
error probability is only polynomially small in
 , rather than
exponentially small (in other words, its error exponent is zero).
The reason for this is that the error probability of the decoder
for
 has this property. So, if a different linear time decoder
for
 exhibits a subexponentially small error probability, then
the same will also be true for the error probability of the Raptor
code which uses
 as its pre-code.
We also remark that the construction in the previous theorem
is essentially optimal. Using the same techniques as in Proposi-
tion 1 it can be shown that the parameters of a Raptor code with
a reliable decoding algorithm of length
 and a pre-code of rate
satisfy the inequality
for some constant
 , where
 is the output degree distribu-
tion of the corresponding LT-code. In our construction, we have
for some constant
 ,
 is
 ,
for some constant
 , and
. (One can show that
 .) Therefore,
the upper and the lower bounds on
 have the same order
of magnitude for small
 . In this respect, the codes constructed
here are essentially optimal.
In terms of overhead, the Raptor codes introduced in this sec-
tion are worse than the LT-codes introduced in [7]: whereas
those LT-codes have an overhead that vanishes as the number
of input symbols grows, the Raptor codes introduced here have
a constant (but arbitrarily small) overhead. This is the price we
have paid to make the decoding algorithm run in linear time.
From a practical point of view the sacri ﬁce in overhead is not
very large, however.
VII. F INITE-LENGTH ANALYSIS OF RAPTOR CODES
The analysis in the previous section is satisfactory from an
asymptotic but not from a practical point of view. The analysis
of the decoding process of the corresponding LT-codes relies
on martingale arguments to enable upper bounds on the error
probability of the decoder. The same is true for the pre-code.
Such bounds are very far from tight, and are especially bad when
the number of input symbols is small.
In this section, we will introduce a different type of error anal-
ysis for Raptor codes of ﬁnite length with BP decoding. This
analysis relies on the exact calculation of the error probability
of the LT-decoder, derived in [11], combined with the calcula-
tion of the error probability for certain LDPC codes [17].
A. Design of the Output Degree Distribution
Following [7], we call an input symbol released at time
 if at
least one neighbor of that input symbol becomes of reduced de-
gree one after
 input symbols are recovered. The input ripple at
time
 is deﬁned as the set of all input symbols that are released
at time
 . The aim of the design is to keep the input ripple large
during as large a fraction of the decoding process as possible.
We will give a heuristic analysis of the expected size of the
input ripple given that the decoding process has already recov-
ered a ﬁxed fraction of the input symbols. For this, it is advanta-
geous to rephrase the BP decoding. At every round of this algo-
rithm, messages are sent along the edges from output symbols to
input symbols, and then from input symbols to output symbols.
The messages sent are
 or
 . An input symbol sends a
 to an
incident output symbol iff its value is not recovered yet. Simi-
larly, an output symbol sends a message
 to an incident input
symbol iff the output symbol is not able to recover the value of
the input symbol.
Let
 be the probability that an edge in the decoding graph
carries a value
 from an output symbol at step
 of the decoding
process. Then, a standard tree analysis argument [18] shows the
recursion
where
 and
 are the output and the input edge degree distri-
butions, respectively. Note that this recursion is only valid if we
can assume that the messages along the edges are statistically
independent.
We have
 and
 , where
is the average degree of an input symbol, and
 is the
derivative of
 . (The latter is a standard approximation of
the binomial distribution by a Poisson distribution, see the proof
of Lemma 4.) Moreover, the input node degree distribution also
equals
 , since this distribution is equal to
 .
Let
 denote the probability that an input symbol is recov-
ered at round
 . An input symbol is recovered iff it is incident to
an edge which carries the message
 from some output symbol.
The probability that an input symbol is recovered, conditioned
on its degree being
 , equals
 . Hence, the probability
that an input symbol is unrecovered at round
 of the algorithm is
. This shows that
 .
Phrasing the above recursion for the
 ’s in terms of the
 ’s, we
obtain
This recursion shows that if an expected
 -fraction of input sym-
bols has been already recovered at some step of the algorithm,
then in the next step that fraction increases to
 .
Therefore, the expected fraction of input symbols in the input
ripple will be
 .
Suppose that the decoding algorithm runs on
 output
symbols. Then
 , and we see that the
expected fraction of symbols in the input ripple is
The preceding derivation is a heuristic. But for two reasons
this does not matter for the design of the Raptor codes.
1) The heuristic is only a means for obtaining good degree
distribution candidates. Once we have found a candi-
date, we will exactly calculate the error probability of
the LT-decoder on that candidate as discussed in Sec-
tion VII-B.

2560 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY , VOL. 52, NO. 6, JUNE 2006
Fig. 2. Decimal logarithm of the cumulative probability of error of the LT-decoder (vertical axis) versus the fraction of decoded input symbols (hori zontal axis)
for the sequence given in Table I for /107/61 /49/48/48 /48/48/48. (a) Full range, and (b) toward the end of the decoding process (less than 3% input symbols left to decode).
2) It can be shown by other means that the above formula is,
in fact, the exact expectation of the size of the input ripple
[11].
Let us assume that the pre-code of the Raptor code to be de-
signed has block length
 . We need to design the output degree
distribution in such a way as to ensure that a large fraction of the
input symbols are recovered. To solve this design problem, we
use an idea communicated to us by Luby [19]: We try to keep
the expected ripple size larger than or equal to
 , for
some positive constant
 . The rationale behind this choice is that
if deletion and insertion of elements into the input ripple were to
happen independently with probability
 every time an input
symbol is recovered, then the input ripple size would need to be
larger by a factor of
 than the square root of the number of input
symbols yet to be recovered, which is
 . Though only
a heuristic, this condition turns out to be very useful for the de-
sign of the degree distributions.
Using this condition, the design problem becomes the fol-
lowing: given
 and
 , and given the number
 of input symbols,
ﬁnd a degree distribution
 such that
for
 . Indeed, if this condition is satisﬁed, then the
expected size of the input ripple which is
is larger than or equal to
 .
This design problem can be solved by means of linear pro-
gramming, in a manner described in [2]. Namely, the inequality
can be manipulated to yield
for
 . Note that for this to be solvable,
 needs
to be larger than
 . By discretizing the interval
and requiring the above inequality to hold on the discretization
points, we obtain linear inequalities in the unknown coefﬁcients
of
 . Moreover, we can choose to minimize the objective
function
 (which is again linear in the unknown coef ﬁ-
cients of
 ), in order to obtain a degree distribution with the
minimum possible average degree.
TABLE I
DEGREE DISTRIBUTIONS FOR VARIOUS VALUES OF /107; /34IST H E OVERHEAD,
AND /97IST H E AVERAGE DEGREE OF AN OUTPUT SYMBOL
Table I shows several optimized degree distributions we have
found using this method for various values of
 . All the
 -values
used are equal to
 . It is interesting to note that for small
values of
 ,
 is approximately equal to
 ,
which is the same as for the Soliton distribution given in Sec-
tion III.
B. Error Analysis of LT-Codes
The upcoming paper [11] describes a dynamic programming
approach to calculate the error probability of the LT-decoder
for a given degree distribution. More precisely, given
 and the
degree distribution
 , the procedure computes for every
 the
probability
 that the decoding process fails with
exactly
 input symbols recovered.
Fig. 2 shows a plot of the cumulative probability of decoding
error (vertical axis in log-scale) versus
 (horizontal axis), for
the sequence in Table I corresponding to the value
 .
Note that for all the degree distributions given in Table I and all
large enough number of input symbols the error probability of
the LT-decoder jumps to
 before all input symbols are recov-
ered. This is because the average degree of the output symbols

SHOKROLLAHI: RAPTOR CODES 2561
Fig. 3. An LDPC code. For every left (check) node the sum of all the adjacent
right (variable) nodes has to be zero.
in the LT-decoder is too small to guarantee coverage of all input
symbols.
C. Design and Error Analysis of the Pre-Code
Even though the choice of a Tornado code or a right-regular
code as the pre-code of a Raptor code is suf ﬁcient for proving
theoretical results about the linear time encodability and decod-
ability of Raptor codes with suitable distributions, such choices
turn out to be rather poor in practical situations. In such cases,
one is interested in a robust pre-code with provable guarantees
on the decoding capability, even for short lengths.
In this subsection, we discuss a special class of LDPC codes
that are well suited as a pre-code. First, let us recall the de ﬁ-
nition of an LDPC code. Let
 be a bipartite graph with
 left
and
 right nodes. In the context of LDPC codes, the left nodes
are often referred to as the message or variable nodes while the
right nodes are referred to as the check nodes. The linear code
associated with the graph is of block length
 . The coordinate
positions of a codeword are identiﬁed with the
 message nodes.
The codewords are those vectors of length
 over the base ﬁeld
such that for every check node the sum of its neighbors among
the message nodes is zero. (See Fig. 3.)
BP decoding of LDPC codes over an erasure channel is very
similar to the BP decoding of LT-codes [2]. It has been shown
in [20] that this decoding algorithm is successful if and only
if the graph induced by the erased message positions does not
contain a stopping set. A stopping set is a set of message nodes
such that their induced graph has the property that all the check
nodes have degree greater than one. For example, in Fig. 3, the
message nodes 1, 2, 4, 5 generate a stopping set of size
 .
Since the union of two stopping sets is again a stopping set, a
bipartite graph contains a unique maximal stopping set (which
may be the empty set). The analysis of erasure decoding for
LDPC codes boils down to computing for each value of
 the
probability that the graph generated by the erased positions has
a maximal stopping set of size
 .
The LDPC codes we will study in this subsection are con-
structed from a node degree distribution
 .F o r
each of the
 message nodes, the neighboring check nodes are
constructed as follows: a degree
 is chosen independently at
random from the distribution given by
 . Then
 random
check nodes are chosen which constitute the neighbors of the
message node. The ensemble of graphs deﬁned this way will be
denoted by
 in the following.
For a graph in the ensemble
 we can calculate
an upper bound for the probability that the graph has a maximal
stopping set of size
 . The following theorem has been proved
in [17].
Theorem 6: Let
 be a positive integer. For
 ,
 ,
 ,
and
 let
 be recursively deﬁned by
for
for
Let
 be a random graph in the ensemble
 . Then
the probability that
 has a maximal stopping set of size
 is at
most
A complete proof of this theorem is provided in Appendix I.
A standard dynamic programming algorithm can compute the
upper bound in the above theorem with
 bit
operations, where
 is the maximum degree in the distribu-
tion
 .
D. Combined Error Probability
The decoding error probability of a Raptor code with param-
eters
 can be estimated using the ﬁnite-length anal-
ysis of the corresponding LT-code and of the pre-code
 . This
can be done for any code
 with a decoder for which the de-
coding error probability is completely known. For example,
can be chosen from the ensemble
 .
We will assume throughout that the
 input symbols of the
Raptor code need to be recovered from
 output symbols.
Suppose that
 has block length
 . For any
 with
 , let
denote the probability that the LT-decoder fails after recov-
ering
 of the
 intermediate symbols. Further, let
 denote the
probability that the code
 cannot decode
 erasures at random
positions. Since the LT-decoding process is independent of the
choice of
 , the set of unrecovered intermediate symbols at the
point of failure of the decoder is random. Therefore, if
 de-
notes the probability that the
 input symbols cannot be recov-
ered from the
 output symbols, then we have
Using the results of the previous two subsections, it is possible
to obtain good upper bounds on the overall error probability of
Raptor codes.

2562 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY , VOL. 52, NO. 6, JUNE 2006
Fig. 4. One version of Raptor codes: the pre-coding is done in multiple stages. The ﬁrst stage is Hamming coding, and the second stage is a version of LDPC
coding.
Fig. 5. Upper bound on the probability /112/40/115/41that the Raptor code of Section VII cannot recover a subset of size /115for small values of /115.
E. Finite-Length Design
As an example of the foregoing discussions we will give one
possible design for Raptor codes for which the number of input
symbols
 is larger than or equal to 64536. In this case, weﬁrst
encode the
 input symbols using an extended Hamming code.
This increases the number of symbols to a number
 which is
roughly
 .
The reason to choose the extended Hamming code as a ﬁrst
stage of the pre-coding is to reduce the effect of stopping sets of
very small size, since an extended Hamming code has minimum
distance
 and thus takes care of stopping sets of sizes
 and
 .
Moreover, stopping sets of larger sizes can also be resolved, with
a good probability, using an extended Hamming code.
Next, we use a random code from the ensemble
to pre-code the
 symbols and produce
intermediate symbols. Then we use an LT-code with the degree
distribution for length
 given in Table I. The overall Raptor
code in this case is shown in Fig. 4.
Using the results of the previous sections, we can calculate
an upper bound on the probability of error for this Raptor code.
For any
 , let
 be the probability that the Raptor code fails to
recover a subset of size
 within the
 symbols on which
the LT-encoding is performed. Fig. 5 shows an upper bound
on
 as
 grows. The addition of the Hamming code at the
beginning results in
 for
 , and reduces the
upper bound on the overall block error probability signiﬁcantly
to
 .
F . Design for Very Small Lengths
While the results of this section can be used to design Raptor
codes for relatively large lengths, the reader mayﬁnd that she or
he may need additional techniques to design codes of very small
length. By very small we mean codes for which the number of
input symbols is in the low thousands, rather than in the low
tens-of-thousands. The design process for such codes uses a lot
of the aspects introduced in this section. However, robust de-
signs call for additional tools.
One of the tools we have found useful for these purposes has
been to change the decoding algorithm. The US patent [21] de-
scribes one such algorithm, called the “Inactivation Decoder.”
This decoder is in fact an ML decoder; the code can be designed
in such a way that this decoder works with minimal computa-
tional overhead.
A code design that works very well for very small numbers of
input symbols has been recently chosen as the sole mandatory

SHOKROLLAHI: RAPTOR CODES 2563
standard for multimedia broadcast and multicast services over
3G wireless networks, see [10]. The code was designed with a
variety of requirements in mind: it had to work well for numbers
of input symbols between 500 and 8196, it had to be systematic,
and it had to have a simple description. The pre-code uses sim-
ilar ideas as the ones described in this section: the ﬁrst stage of
the pre-code uses a regular LDPC code, while the second stage
uses a code that is somewhat similar to the Hamming code. The
degree distribution for the code was designed using techniques
very similar to the ones described in this section.
This design incorporates a number of methods, among them
the inactivation decoding described above. A thorough descrip-
tion of preferred decoding methods for this code are described in
the document [10]. A detailed description of the design choices
for this code will appear elsewhere.
VIII. S YSTEMATIC RAPTOR CODES
One of the disadvantages of Raptor codes is that they are not
systematic. This means that the input symbols are not neces-
sarily reproduced by the encoder. As many applications require
systematic codes for better performance, we will design in this
section systematic versions of Raptor codes.
Throughout this section, we will assume that we have a
Raptor code with parameters
 which has a reliable
decoding algorithm of overhead
 . We denote by
 the block
length of the pre-code
 .
We will design an encoding algorithm which accepts
 input
symbols
 and produces a set
 of
 dis-
tinct indices between
 and
 and an unbounded string
of output symbols such that
 ,
and such that the output symbols can be computed ef ﬁciently.
Moreover, we will also design a reliable decoding algorithm of
overhead
 for this code.
In the following, we will refer to the indices
as the systematic positions , we will call the output symbols
the systematic output symbols, and we will refer to
the other output symbols as the nonsystematic output symbols.
A. Summary of the Approach
The overall structure of our approach is as follows. We will
ﬁrst compute the systematic positions
 . This process
also yields an invertible binary
 -matrix
 . These data are
computed by sampling
 times from the distribution
independently to obtain vectors
 and applying a
modiﬁcation of the decoding algorithm to these vectors. The
matrix
 will be the product of the matrix
 consisting of the
rows
 and a generator matrix of the pre-code. These
sampled vectors also determine theﬁrst
 output symbols
of the systematic encoder.
To encode the input symbols
 we ﬁrst use the in-
verse of the matrix
 to transform these into intermediate sym-
bols
 . We then apply the Raptor code with parame-
ters
 to the intermediate symbols, whereby the ﬁrst
symbols are obtained using the previously sampled vec-
tors
 . All this will be done in such a way that the
output symbols corresponding to the systematic positions coin-
cide with the input symbols.
The decoding process for the systematic Raptor code will
consist of a decoding step for the original Raptor code to ob-
tain the intermediate symbols
 . The matrix
 is then
used to transform these intermediate symbols back to the input
symbols
 .
In the next subsection, we will introduce a matrix interpreta-
tion of the encoding and decoding procedures for Raptor codes
and use this point of view to describe our encoding and decoding
algorithms for systematic Raptor codes.
B. A Matrix Interpretation of Raptor Codes
The encoding procedure for a Raptor code amounts to per-
forming multiplications of matrices with vectors, and to solving
systems of equations. The matrices involved are binary, i.e.,
their coefﬁcients are either zero or one. The vectors, on the other
hand, will be vectors of symbols, where each symbol is a binary
digit, or itself a binary vector. We will always view vectors as
row vectors.
For the rest of this paper, we will ﬁx a generator matrix
of the pre-code.
 is an
 binary matrix. Let
 denote
the vector
 consisting of the input vectors. The pre-
coding step of the Raptor code corresponds to the multiplication
.
Each output symbol of the Raptor code is obtained by sam-
pling independently from the distribution
 to obtain a row
vector
 in
 . The value of the output symbol is calculated as
the scalar product
 . We call the vector
 the vector corre-
sponding to the output symbol.
To any given set of
 output symbols of the Raptor code there
corresponds a binary
 -matrix
 in which the rows are the
vectors corresponding to the output symbols. In other words,
the rows of
 are sampled independently from the distribution
, and we have
(1)
where
 is the column vector consisting of
the output symbols. Decoding the Raptor code corresponds to
solving the system of equations given in (1) for the vector
 .
C. The Systematic Positions
 and the Matrix
In this subsection, we will discuss the problem of calculating
the systematic positions, and the matrix
 . Moreover, we will
study the cost of multiplication of
 with a generic vector of
length
 , and the cost of solving a system of equations
for
 , where
 is a given vector of length
 . In order to make
assertions on the cost, it is advantageous to introduce a piece of
notation. For a matrix
 we will denote by
 the number of
arithmetic operations sufﬁcient to calculate the product
of the matrix
 with a generic vector
 , divided by the number
of rows of
 . This is the number of arithmetic operations per
entry of the product
 . In this sense,
 is the cost of
multiplying
 with a generic column vector, and
 is the
cost of solving the system of equations
 for a generic
vector
 .
The system (1) is solvable if and only if the rank of
 is
. Gaussian elimination identiﬁes
 rows with indices
such that the submatrix
 of
 consisting of these rows has the

2564 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY , VOL. 52, NO. 6, JUNE 2006
property that
 is an invertible
 -matrix. This gives
us the following algorithm for calculating
 and the systematic
indices.
Algorithm 7:
Input: Raptor code with parameters
 and positive
real number
 .
Output: If successful, vectors
 , indices
between
 and
 , and invertible matrix
such that
 is the matrix formed by rows
 .
1) Sample
 times independently from the distribution
on
 to obtain
 .
2) Calculate the matrix
 consisting of rows
and the product
 .
3) Using Gaussian elimination, calculate rows
such that the submatrix
 of
 consisting of these
rows is invertible, and calculate
 . If the rank of
is less than
 , output an error ﬂag.
Theorem 8:
1) If the decoding algorithm for the raptor code errs with
probability
 , then the probability that Algorithm 7 fails
is at most
 .
2) The algorithm computes the matrix
 and its inverse with
binary arithmetic operations.
3)
 .
4) With high probability (over the choice of the
 ),
 is
upper-bounded by
 , where
 is the
encoding cost of
 , and
 is a function approaching
as
 approaches inﬁnity.
Proof: Let
 be the matrix whose rows are the vectors
. The system of (1) is solvable if and only if the
rank of
 is
 . The probability of solving the system using
the decoding algorithm for the Raptor code is
 , hence, the prob-
ability that the rank of
 is smaller than
 is at most
 . This
proves part 1).
The matrix
 can be calculated with
 opera-
tions. The matrix
 and its inverse, and the systematic indices
can be obtained using a standard application of
Gaussian elimination to the matrix
 . This step uses
operations, and proves part 2).
It is easily seen that
 for any
 -matrix, so
part 3) follows.
The multiplication
 can be performed by ﬁrst multi-
plying
 with
 to obtain an
 -dimensional vector
 , and then
multiplying
 with
 . The cost of the second
step is the average weight of the
 . To obtain an upper bound on
this average weight, note that a standard application of the Cher-
noff bound shows that the sum of the weights of
is
 , with high probability. The av-
erage weight of the vectors
 is therefore at most
. This shows
part 4).
Algorithm 7 can be simpli ﬁed considerably for the case of
LT-codes by a slight adaptation and modi ﬁcation of BP de-
coding.
Algorithm 9:
Input: LT-code with parameters
 , and positive real
number
 .
Output: If successful, vectors
 , indices
between
 and
 , and invertible matrix
formed by rows
 .
1) Sample
 times independently from the distribution
on
 , where
 is the block length of
 , to obtain
, and let
 denote the matrix formed by
these vectors as its rows.
2) Set counter
 , and matrix
 , and loop through
the following steps:
2.1) If
 , identify a row of weight
 of
 ; ﬂag
an error and stop if it does not exist; otherwise,
set
 to be equal to the index of the row in
 .
2.2) Identify the unique nonzero position of the row,
and delete the column corresponding to that po-
sition from
 .
3) Set
 equal to the rows
 of
 .
Theorem 10:
1) Suppose that BP decoding is an algorithm of overhead
for the above LT-code, and suppose that it errs with
probability
 . Then the probability that Algorithm 9 fails
is at most
 .
2) The matrix
 can be calculated with at most
arithmetic operations.
3) With high probability (over the choice of the
 ),
is upper-bounded by
 , where
 is
a function approaching
 as
 approaches inﬁnity.
4) With high probability (over the choice of the
 ),
 is
upper-bounded by
 .
Proof: The assertions follow from the fact that the algo-
rithm provided is essentially the BP decoding algorithm (ex-
cept that it does not perform any operations on symbols, and
it keeps track of the rows of
 which participate in the decoding
process). The assertion on the cost of calculating
 , and the cost
follow from the upper bound
 on the
average weights of the vectors
 . (See the proof of the
previous theorem.)
To calculate
 , note that the success of the algorithm
shows that with respect to a suitable column and row permuta-
tion
 is lower triangular with
 ’s on the main diagonal. Hence,
the cost
 is equal to the average weight of
 and the as-
sertion follows.
In what follows we assume that the matrix
 , the vectors
, and the systematic positions
 have al-
ready been calculated, and that this data is shared by the en-
coder and the decoder. The systematic encoding algorithmﬂags
an error if Algorithm 7 (or it LT-analogue) fails to calculate this
data.
D. Encoding Systematic Raptor Codes
The following algorithm describes how to generate the output
symbols for a systematic Raptor code.

SHOKROLLAHI: RAPTOR CODES 2565
Algorithm 11:
Input: Input symbols
 .
Output: Output symbols
 , where for
the symbol
 corresponds to the vectors
 , and where
for
 .
1) Calculate
 given by
 .
2) Encode
 using the generator matrix
 of the pre-code
to obtain
 , where
 .
3) Calculate
 for
 .
4) Generate the output symbols
 by
applying the LT-code with parameters
 to the
vector
 .
We willﬁrst show that this encoder is indeed a systematic en-
coder with systematic positions
 . This also shows that
it is not necessary to calculate the output symbols corresponding
to these positions.
Proposition 12: In Algorithm 11, the output symbols
 co-
incide with the input symbols
 for
 .
Proof: Note that
 , where the rows of
 are
.W eh a v e
 , i.e.,
 , since
. Hence, for all
 ,
 , and we are done.
Next, we focus on the cost of the encoding algorithm.
Theorem 13: The cost of Algorithm 11 is at most
, where
 is the encoding cost of the Raptor code. In particular,
if the Raptor code is an LT-code, then the cost of this algorithm
is at most
 .
Proof: Computation of
 has cost
 . Encoding
has cost
 , where
 is the encoding cost of the pre-code. Cal-
culation of each of the
 has expected average cost of
 .
Therefore, the total cost is
 . But
is the encoding cost of the Raptor code, hence the assertion fol-
lows.
If the Raptor code is an LT-code, then
 is at most
by Theorem 10, and
 .
E. Decoding Systematic Raptor Codes
The decoder for the systematic Raptor code collects
output symbols and recovers the input symbols with high
probability.
Algorithm 14:
Input: Output symbols
 , where
 .
Output: The input symbols
 of the systematic
Raptor code.
1) Decode the output symbols using the decoding algorithm
for the original Raptor code to obtain the intermediate
symbols
 . Flag an error if decoding is not suc-
cessful.
2) Calculate
 , where
 and
As in the case of the encoding algorithm, we will ﬁrst focus
on the correctness of the algorithm.
Proposition 15: The output of Algorithm 14 is equal to the
input symbols of the systematic encoder, and the error proba-
bility of this algorithm is equal to the error probability of the
decoding algorithm used in Step 1.
Proof: The output symbols
 are independently
generated output symbols of a Raptor code with parameters
applied to the vector
 . Therefore, the decoding al-
gorithm used in Step 1 is successful with high probability, and
it computes the vector
 if it succeeds. Since
 , the
correctness of the algorithm follows.
Next we focus on the cost of the algorithm.
Theorem 16: The cost of Algorithm 14 is at most
, where
 is the encoding cost and
 is the decoding
cost of the original Raptor code, and
 is the encoding cost of
the pre-code. If the Raptor code is an LT-code, then the cost of
Algorithm 14 is at most
 .
Proof: Step 1 of the algorithm has cost
 , and
by Theorem 8. If the Raptor code is
an LT-code, then
 , and
 is upper-bounded by
by Theorem 10.
We would like to remark that Algorithm 14 can be improved.
For example, if all the systematic positions have been received,
then there is no need to run the decoding algorithm at all. More
generally, if
 systematic positions have been received, then only
input symbols need to be calculated. We leave it to the
reader to show that the cost of calculating the missing input
symbols is actually
 if
 .
F . Practical Considerations
Our ﬁrst remark concerns the systematic positions. One
would like these positions to be
 . The reason we
could not satisfy this condition is hidden in the proof of Propo-
sition 15, since we needed to make sure that the collected output
symbols are statistically independent. In practice, however, it is
a good idea to permute the vectors
 so that the
systematic positions become the ﬁrst
 positions.
Next we remark that is is possible to reduce the error prob-
ability of the encoder considerably by generating many more
initial vectors than
 in Algorithm 7 (or its LT-ana-
logue). Depending on how many initial vectors are generated,
this makes the error probability of the algorithm very small (for
example much smaller than the probability of failure of the de-
coding Algorithm 14).
There are various ways of improving the running time of the
systematic decoder. For example, it is not necessary to entirely
re-encode the vector
 in Step 2 of Algorithm 14. This is be-
cause the decoding process in Step 1 will have recovered a large
fraction of the coordinate positions of the vector obtained by ap-
plying the pre-code to
 . These coordinate positions do not need
to be recalculated.
We also comment that in practice the cost of multiplying with
in Algorithm 11 is much smaller than
 . This is be-
cause the matrix
 can be “almost” upper-triangularized, i.e.,
after suitable permutations of rows and columns
 will be of
the form


2566 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY , VOL. 52, NO. 6, JUNE 2006
where
 is an upper triangular matrix of large size and
 is
invertible.
We refer the reader to the patent [22] for a different descrip-
tion systematic encoding and decoding of Raptor codes.
APPENDIX
PROOF OF THEOREM 6
Theorem 6 and the proof in this appendix are joint work with
Rüdiger Urbanke [17].
Let
 be a random graph in the ensemble
 .W e
will prove later that
 (as given in the statement of The-
orem 6) is the probability that a random graph in the ensemble
has
 check nodes of degree
 and
 check nodes
of degree one. So, let us assume this for now.
We will ﬁrst show that the probability that a given subset of
size
 of the set of left nodes (called message nodes) of this
graph is a maximal stopping set is
(2)
Note that
 is the probability that a random graph in the
ensemble
 is a stopping set. Since the ordering of
the message nodes does not matter,
 is also the proba-
bility that a given subset
 of size
 of the message nodes is a
stopping set. For
 to be a maximal stopping set,
 needs to be a
stopping set, and any set of message nodes containing
 should
not be a stopping set. Let
 be a subset of the message nodes
containing
 .F o r
 not to be a stopping set, one of the message
nodes in
 which is not in
 should have a neighbor among the
check nodes of
 of degree zero. In other words, given that
is a stopping set with
 check nodes of degree zero,
 is not a
stopping set iff all the nodes in
 not in
 have no neighbors
among the
 check nodes of
 of degree zero. As a result, the
probability that
 is a maximal stopping set of size
 given that
it has
 check nodes of degree zero is the expression given in
(2). Since
 can be any integer between
 and
 , and since
 can
be any subset of size
 of the set of message nodes, it follows
that the probability that
 has a maximal stopping set of size
is at most
It remains to show that
 satisﬁes the recursion given
in the statement of Theorem 6.
Clearly,
 and
 for
 .
To obtain the recursions, we proceed as follows. Consider a
random graph
 in
 , and subdivide the graph
into the graph
 induced by the ﬁrst
 message nodes, and
the graph induced by the last message node.
 is a random
graph in
 . Suppose that
 has
 check nodes of
degree
 and
 check nodes of degree one. For
 to have
check nodes of degree
 and
 check nodes of degree one, ex-
actly
 neighbors of the last message node of
 have to have
neighbors among the check nodes of degree
 of
 , and
neighbors among the check nodes of degree one of
(see Fig. 6). If the last message node is of degree
 , then the
Fig. 6. Recursion for /65
/40/122/59 /111/41. The /110/43/49th message node of degree/100chooses
/96nodes among the /122check nodes of degree/48, /107nodes among the /111check nodes
of degree one, and /100/0/96/0/107nodes among the /110/0/122/0/111check nodes of degree
larger than one.
number of ways this message node can have the right number
of neighbors among the check nodes of
 of degrees
 and
 is
Since the last message node of
 is of degree
 with probability
, and
 has
 check nodes of degree zero and
 check nodes
of degree one with probability
 , the recursion of The-
orem 6 follows.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
A number of people have helped with the design of Raptor
codes at various stages. First and foremost I would like to thank
Michael Luby for sharing with me his insight into LT-codes and
for carefully proofreading previous versions of the paper. I am
also grateful to Igal Sason for carefully reading a previous draft
of the paper and pointing out a number of corrections. Many
thanks go to David MacKay for pointing out several remaining
typos and for suggestions for improvement.
Soren Lassen implemented the Raptor codes reported in this
paper and has since optimized the design and the implementa-
tion to reach the speeds reported in the Introduction. I would
also like to thank Richard Karp, Avi Wigderson, Vivek Goyal,
Michael Mitzenmacher, and John Byers for many helpful dis-
cussions during various development phases of this project.
Last but not least, I would like to express my gratitude to
the anonymous reviewers whose numerous comments helped to
considerably improve the presentation of the paper.
REFERENCES
[1] P. Elias, “Coding for two noisy channels, ” in Proc. 3rd London Symp.
Information Theory, , London, U.K., 1955, pp. 61–76.
[2] M. Luby, M. Mitzenmacher, A. Shokrollahi, and D. Spielman,“Efﬁcient
erasure correcting codes,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory , vol. 47, no. 2, pp.
569–584, Feb. 2001.
[3] R. G. Gallager, Low Density Parity-Check Codes . Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press, 1963.
[4] J. Byers, M. Luby, M. Mitzenmacher, and A. Rege, “A digital fountain
approach to reliable distribution of bulk data,” in Proc. ACM SIGCOMM
’98, Vancouver, BC, Canada, Jan. 1998, pp. 56–67.

SHOKROLLAHI: RAPTOR CODES 2567
[5] M. Luby, “Information Additive Code Generator and Decoder for Com-
munication Systems,” U.S. Patent 6,307,487, Oct. 23, 2001.
[6] , “Information Additive Code Generator and Decoder for Commu-
nication Systems,” U.S. Patent 6,373,406, Apr. 16, 2002.
[7] , “LT-codes,” in Proc. 43rd Annu. IEEE Symp. Foundations of
Computer Science (FOCS) , Vancouver, BC, Canada, Nov. 2002, pp.
271–280.
[8] A. Shokrollahi, S. Lassen, and M. Luby, “Multi-Stage Code Generator
and Decoder for Communication Systems, ” U.S. Patent Application
20030058958, Dec. 2001.
[9] P. Maymounkov, “Online Codes,” Preprint, 2002.
[10] “Technical Speciﬁcation Group Services and System Aspects; Multi-
media Broadcast/Multicast Services (MBMS); Protocols and Codecs
(Release 6),” 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP), Tech. Rep.
3GPP TS 26.346 V6.3.0, 3GPP, 2005.
[11] R. Karp, M. Luby, and A. Shokrollahi, “Finite length analysis of LT
codes,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. Information Theory , Chicago, IL,
Jun./Jul. 2004, p. 39.
[12] H. Jin, A. Khandekar, and R. McEliece, “Irregular repeat-accumulate
codes,” in Proc. 2nd Int. Symp. Turbo Codes, Brest, France, Sep. 2000,
pp. 1–8.
[13] H. P ﬁster, I. Sason, and R. Urbanke,“Capacity-achieving ensembles for
the binary erasure channel with bounded complexity,” IEEE Trans. Inf.
Theory, vol. 51, no. 7, pp. 2352–2379, Jul. 2005.
[14] M. Luby, M. Mitzenmacher, A. Shokrollahi, and D. Spielman, “Im-
proved low-density parity-check codes using irregular graphs, ” IEEE
Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 47, no. 2, pp. 585–598, Feb. 2001.
[15] A. Shokrollahi, “New sequences of linear time erasure codes ap-
proaching the channel capacity, ” in Proc. 13th Int. Symp. Applied
Algebra, Algebraic Algorithms, and Error-Correcting Codes (Lecture
Notes in Computer Science), M. Fossorier, H. Imai, S. Lin, and A. Poli,
Eds. Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag, 1999, vol. 1719, , pp. 65 –76.
[16] P. Oswald and A. Shokrollahi, “Capacity-achieving sequences for
the erasure channel, ” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory , vol. 48, no. 12, pp.
3017–3028, Dec. 2002.
[17] A. Shokrollahi and R. Urbanke, “Finite Length Analysis of a Certain
Class of LDPC Codes,” Preprint, 2001.
[18] M. Luby, M. Mitzenmacher, and A. Shokrollahi, “Analysis of random
processes via and-or tree evaluation, ” in Proc. 9th Annu. ACM-SIAM
Symp. Discrete Algorithms, San Francisco, CA, Jan. 1998, pp. 364–373.
[19] M. Luby, “A note on the design of degree distributions, ” unpublished,
2001 Private communication.
[20] C. Di, D. Proietti, ˙I. E. Telatar, T. Richardson, and R. Urbanke,“Finite-
length analysis of low-density parity-check codes on the binary erasure
channel,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 48, no. 6, pp. 1570 –1579, Jun.
2002.
[21] A. Shokrollahi, S. Lassen, and R. Karp, “Systems and Processes for
Decoding Chain Reaction Codes Through Inactivation, ” U.S. Patent
6,856,263, Feb. 15, 2005.
[22] A. Shokrollahi and M. Luby, “Systematic Encoding and Decoding of
Chain Reaction Codes,” U.S. Patent 6,909,383, Jun. 21, 2005.