This paper is included in the Proceedings of the 
33rd USENIX Security Symposium.
August 14–16, 2024 • Philadelphia, PA, USA
978-1-939133- 4 4 -1
Open access to the Proceedings of the 
33rd USENIX Security Symposium 
is sponsored by USENIX.
Guardians of the Galaxy: Content Moderation 
in the InterPlanetary File System
Saidu Sokoto, City, University of London; Leonhard Balduf, TU Darmstadt; 
Dennis Trautwein, University of Göttingen; Yiluo Wei and Gareth Tyson, 
Hong Kong Univ. of Science & Technology (GZ); Ignacio Castro, Queen Mary, 
University of London; Onur Ascigil, Lancaster University; George Pavlou, 
University College London; Maciej Korczyński, Univ. Grenoble Alpes; 
Björn Scheuermann, TU Darmstadt; Michał Król, City, University of London
https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity24/presentation/sokoto

Guardians of the Galaxy: Content Moderation in the InterPlanetary File System
Saidu Sokoto∗
City, University of London
Leonhard Balduf∗
TU Darmstadt
Dennis Trautwein∗
University of Göttingen
Yiluo Wei
Hong Kong Univ. of Science & Technology (GZ)
Gareth Tyson
Hong Kong Univ. of Science & Technology (GZ)
Ignacio Castro
Queen Mary, University of London
Onur Ascigil
Lancaster University
George Pavlou
University College London
Maciej Korczy´nski
Univ. Grenoble Alpes
Björn Scheuermann
TU Darmstadt
Michał Król
City, University of London
Abstract
The InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) is one of the largest
platforms in the growing “Decentralized Web”. The increas-
ing popularity of IPFS has attracted large volumes of users
and content. Unfortunately, some of this content could be
considered “problematic”. Content moderation is always hard.
With a completely decentralized infrastructure and administra-
tion, content moderation in IPFS is even more difficult. In this
paper, we examine this challenge. We identify, characterize,
and measure the presence of problematic content in IPFS (e.g.
subject to takedown notices). Our analysis covers 368,762
files. We analyze the complete content moderation process
including how these files are flagged, who hosts and retrieves
them. We also measure the efficacy of the process. We analyze
content submitted to denylist, showing that notable volumes
of problematic content are served, and the lack of a central-
ized approach facilitates its spread. While we identify fast
reactions to takedown requests, we also test the resilience
of multiple gateways and show that existing means to filter
problematic content can be circumvented. We end by propos-
ing improvements to content moderation that result in 227%
increase in the detection of phishing content and reduce the
average time to filter such content by 43%.
1 Introduction
The Internet Planetary File System (IPFS) is one of the largest
platforms in the Decentralized Web, with ≈ 30,000 [74]
online IPFS nodes, spread across 2,700 Autonomous Sys-
tems (ASes), and 152 countries [72]. IPFS supports a whole
ecosystem of decentralized applications [9], including so-
cial networking [5, 10], data storage [15, 60, 64], content
search [12, 62], messaging [70], streaming [6, 13, 79], gam-
ing [8, 16], and e-commerce [7, 11]. IPFS is also widely used
as external storage for blockchain-based applications such as
NFT platforms [30, 38]. Growing support to facilitate IPFS
access (e.g. Cloudflare’s HTTP gateways, and integration by
∗These authors contributed equally to this work.
browsers like Opera and Brave) has further propelled IPFS
usage.
However, the popularity of IPFS comes with challenges.
Most notably, there has been growing media attention sur-
rounding the need for content moderation in IPFS [14,19,20].
This is not a new problem, and many large platforms ( e.g.
Facebook) have long struggled with the complexities of mod-
eration, such as the removal of Child Sexual Abuse Mate-
rial (CSAM). In some ways, moderation in IPFS is easier,
because its addressing scheme allows each content object to
be uniquely identified agnostic to where it is hosted (unlike
URLs, which depend on the hosting domain). In other ways,
moderation in IPFS is harder, as there is no single point of
control to make and enforce moderation decisions. The legal
problems faced by earlier peer-to-peer services, such as Bit-
Torrent [34, 35, 41] and Kazaa [42], highlight the importance
of this problem. Consequently, various IPFS stakeholders
implemented content moderation methods.
The content moderation activities in the IPFS ecosystem
are currently led by Protocol Labs, the largest single contrib-
utor to the IPFS open-source effort [72]. In 2021, Protocol
Labs started to compile its badbits list [50], listing content
deemed as “problematic” after receiving a takedown request.
Protocol Labs uses this denylist to filter flagged content from
the IPFS gateways it manages. However, in a decentralized
system, this is just a partial solution: there are many gateways
hosted by different operators that do not necessarily share
the same denylist. Thus, Protocol Labs makes the badbits list
publicly available, so others can use it if they wish to filter
certain content. However, to date, we know little about this
process.
In this paper, we conduct the first in-depth analysis of prob-
lematic content within the IPFS network and the efforts made
to moderate it. We provide a nuanced understanding of the
content landscape and offer practical insights for reinforcing
content moderation mechanisms. To achieve this, we collect
a range of datasets (Section 3), covering (i) the content take-
down requests received by Protocol Labs, alongside the final
badbits list they compile; we extend it with datasets from
USENIX Association 33rd USENIX Security Symposium    1507

traditional Web2 providers, creating a more comprehensive
denylist of problematic content; (ii) the presence of such con-
tent within the IPFS network, and its related infrastructure;
(iii) the traffic related to such content; and (iv) the implemen-
tation of content filtering at various IPFS locations.
We start by studying the content moderation process for
the ipfs.io gateway, from when content is reported to the
actions taken and their impact (Section 4). We show that,
while Protocol Labs usually acts upon complaints within 24h,
problematic content can be present in the network for years
before being reported. This leads us to characterize the con-
tent listed in the denylist. We investigate the breakdown of
368,762 files flagged for takedown reviews and find a large
fraction of copyright-protected content (≈ 87.97% of files), as
well as phishing campaigns (≈ 5.81%). We also observe the
presence of terrorist content (≈ 0.06%), and potential CSAM
(< 0.01%). Importantly, to minimize risk and to report offend-
ing content, we have worked closely alongside the Internet
Watch Foundation (IWF) [43].
Next, we identify which providers host the denylist content
(Section 5) and which consumers retrieve it (Section 6). We
find a substantial skew, with over 60% of unique denylist
content items hosted by just two peers. This, however, is mis-
leading as we show that content is often replicated at multiple
locations. This replication creates challenges for blocking
such material. This inspires us to measure the success of the
moderation process. We observe limited filtering within the
core IPFS network. Thus, we measure what content is blocked
by gateways (Section 7). We find that gateway operators have
different levels of blocking compliance. For example, out of
all the gateways, only the ones operated by Protocol Labs
filter the entire badbits list. The other public gateways, includ-
ing those operated by large CDNs, filter less than 20% of the
content. Critically, we also discover that some gateways are
vulnerable to content filtering circumvention. For instance,
we can circumvent the filtering by using different hash-based
naming functions, even if they follow the denylist.
Finally, in Section 8, we discuss potential improvements
to the existing content-moderation approaches. We propose
strategies that aim to enhance the efficacy of content modera-
tion within the IPFS network. We show that a tighter collabo-
ration between Protocol Labs and traditional content filtering
services can increase the ratio of detected phishing content
by 227%. Our approach reduces the average time between
the appearance of deceptive websites and their filtering by
43% and with minimal implementation effort. Our work fills a
missing gap in the growing number of studies analyzing IPFS
performance [72], security [63, 67], and resilience [32, 37].
We hope that it is useful for both developers and operators of
IPFS infrastructure.
2 Background
The InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) is a set of protocols
that facilitate decentralized content-addressable media object
storage and retrieval. IPFS is an open-source effort where
Protocol Labs is the largest contributor [72]. At its core, IPFS
is a content-based addressing scheme that uses Content Identi-
fiers (CIDs). CIDs are hash-based, immutable, self-certifying
names that decouple the name of the content from its stor-
age location. Accordingly, any peer can serve the content
requested via a CID, and the receiver can verify that the data
served matches the identifier requested via hashing. A dis-
tributed index maintains records of which providers host a
given CID, allowing consumers to discover where to request
content from without needing a central index. Here, we pro-
vide a brief overview of key parts; see [72] for full details.
DHT. IPFS uses a Kademlia-based [61] Distributed Hash
Table (DHT) to index which node hosts data for a certain
CID. The DHT indexes provider records, which maintain a
mapping between a CID and the physical node(s) that can
serve it. Peers then use this DHT to publish their provider
records, so consumers can discover where to download the
content from.
InterPlanetary Network Indexers. Involved parties in the
IPFS ecosystem also operate a small set of InterPlanetary
Network Indexers (IPNIs or “Indexers”) to accelerate its per-
formance. Indexers are high-performance keystore servers
that index provider records. Providers can optionally publish
their provider records to both the DHT and the Indexers. This
can substantially increase performance, as the Indexers offer
much faster lookup times for clients. Notably, data will stay
in the Indexer unless actively removed by the provider, which
will become relevant later. We emphasize that Indexers are
intended to complement the DHT — the DHT remains the
ultimate ground truth index of IPFS content.
Bitswap. To exchange content, IPFS relies on Bitswap [39],
a simple protocol used to retrieve blocks of data. Bitswap is
used by nodes to both retrieve and send data. The protocol
allows one to ask a peer (using a WANT message) whether
it possesses the content for a CID. The same protocol is then
used to transfer the data.
Content Publication & Retrieval. When a provider wishes
to publish a content item, it first computes its hash-based CID.
It then publishes a provider record that contains the CID and
its own network information. The record, by default, is pushed
to the DHT but can also be pushed to one or more Indexers.
Following this process, consumers in the network can retrieve
the object. For this, a node first performs a 1-hop optimistic
broadcast via Bitswap to all its connected neighbors looking
for the target CID (typically a few hundred random peers).
Searching via Bitswap is fast, but does not provide reliable
content resolution, in particular for less popular content. Thus,
if this does not yield any results, the node queries the DHT
1508    33rd USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

or Indexers for the provider record. Once it has retrieved the
provider record, it can then connect to an available host and
retrieve the object. The download is performed using Bitswap.
HTTP Gateways. Accessing IPFS via the DHT and Bitswap
comes with the substantial overhead of installing an IPFS
node implementation (e.g. kubo [4]). To minimize the barriers
to uptake, IPFS also supports access via gateways, which can
translate Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) GET requests
to content retrievals in IPFS. Gateways enable IPFS-agnostic
users to seamlessly access IPFS content. When a gateway
receives an HTTP GET for a CID, it launches a query into
the IPFS network and retrieves the content on behalf of the
web client. The gateway then returns the content to the client
over the original HTTP channel. Gateways (built upon Nginx)
also enable HTTP caching to accelerate performance and
minimize load on the IPFS network. Protocol Labs maintains
a list of public gateways [51], some of which are operated
by Protocol Labs (dweb.link) and other large operators like
Cloudflare (cloudflare-ipfs.com).
Protocol Labs Badbits List. Moderating content (e.g. filter-
ing) in IPFS is inherently challenging, due to its decentralized
nature. The most obvious location where such moderation
could take place is at gateways or Indexers, as these are points
of centralization. With the above challenge in mind, in 2021,
Protocol Labs created a public list of content items that they
deemed “harmful” for various reasons (e.g. copyright viola-
tion, phishing) and, therefore, should not be accessible. This
list is referred to as thebadbits list [50]. The badbits list is cen-
trally maintained by Protocol Labs and built primarily on take-
down requests received via email at abuse@ipfs.tech [55].
Any entity or person can issue a takedown request. This re-
quest is reviewed by a content moderation team and approved
requests result in the content being added to their badbits list.
To date, the list contains over 410,000 entries, with each
entry being a hex-encoded result of applying SHA256 to the
base32-encoded CIDv1. This hashing of the CID allows par-
ties to check whether a given CID is part of the badbits list
without revealing the CID itself. Note, no additional metadata
is included in the list.
Takedown Email Notices. We got access to the takedown
request emails received via abuse@ipfs.tech between
2023-10-22 and 2024-01-11 and analyzed them according
to Appendix A.2. This allows us to understand the nature of
takedown requests and how they are acted upon. This was
done with a team of former researchers at Protocol Labs, who
received permission to share information with us for research
purposes. This data was never transferred or stored outside of
Protocol Labs. It was used only for the purposes of this study,
and we never had direct access to the mailbox. Further, we do
not review information about the email sender (Section 9).
3 Methodology
In this section, we explain the methodology and the datasets
employed in this work. Figure 1 provides an overview of our
data collection architecture.
3.1 Content Collection
We use the Protocol Labs badbits list [53] (see Figure 1 1 )
as our starting point. We have gathered a time series of list
versions since its creation in 2021. Because each entry on the
badbits list is hex-encoded hash of the CID (see Section 2),
inferring the CID directly is not possible. To overcome this,
it is necessary to get a large set of valid CIDs, calculate their
SHA256 hashes, and then match them against the badbits list.
For this, we collect all candidate CIDs from Bitswap and DHT
logs (see next).
Bitswap Logs. We collect Bitswap traces from mid-2021 to
January 2024 [31] (see Figure 1 2 ) using a modified IPFS
node implementation with unlimited connections with peers.
Our crawler logs all incoming 1-hop Bitswap broadcast traffic
(i.e. each searching for a CID) to disk. From this, we observe
≈ 300B requests, covering≈ 1B unique CIDs.
DHT Logs. We also set up a modified version of a DHT
server [58] to collect the IPFS DHT traffic. We set up 20
virtual peer IDs and write all the incoming DHT requests to
disk. We log the timestamp, the sender’s peer ID and network
address, the type of request, and the target key which could
be a peer ID or CID depending on the message type. We also
log the proxy DHT server if the original sender uses NAT
traversal mechanisms (Section 2). Apart from collecting the
traffic, our software acts as a regular DHT server following the
IPFS specification. We collect traffic from September 2022 to
January 2024 (see Figure 1 3 ). From this, we observe 1.3B
requests, covering 120M CIDs.
Badbits CIDs. Using the above two data sources, we extract
all CIDs from the logs (see Figure 1 4 ). We then convert
all CIDs into their hash (SHA256). Using these hashes, we
reverse map the entries on the badbits list to their associated
CID. We recover 411,522 (≈ 99.98%) of the CIDs in the
badbits list. We refer to these as badbits CIDs.
Denylist CIDs. To measure the spread of a wider body of
problematic content, we supplement the badbits list, using
other lists. Specifically, we take information from Web2 Anti-
Phishing Services (APS) (see Figure 1 5 , in ThreatChase
Intelligence Platform [36]). This platform compiles lists of
phishing URLs by combining data from OpenPhish [17],
PhishTank [18], URLhaus [21], and the AntiPhishing Work-
ing Group (APWG) [1]. From these phishing URLs, we ex-
tract any CIDs present using regular expressions.1 We identify
16,128 CIDs associated with phishing attacks (see Figure 1,
1From manual inspection, we see that all of these CIDs are embedded in
URLs that access a particular gateway.
USENIX Association 33rd USENIX Security Symposium    1509

The denylist
Download Downloaded
Content
Analyze
Classify
Threat
Phishing
CIDs
Gateways
used for
Phishing
Monitor
Regularly APS
Plaintext
CIDS Bitswap Logs
Bitswap
Monitor
DHT Logs
DHT Server
+=CID
Extraction
Badbits list
Gateway List
Public
Gateway List
Passive
DNS Data
Threat
Classification
Takedown
Emails
Indexers
Query
Regularly
DHT
Provider
Records
External Data Source
Process
Dataset
1
2 3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Figure 1: Overview of data collection architecture.
6 ). Our combined dataset, covering both badbits and phish-
ing (i.e. Web2-moderated) content, contains 417,912 CIDs.
We refer to this combined dataset as the denylist (see Figure 1
7 ).
Content Retrieval. We then attempt to download all the con-
tent on the denylist except those reported as CSAM. We con-
figure our IPFS node to not provide the downloaded content
to other peers in the IPFS network and delete the content
immediately after classifying it (see Figure 1 8 , Section 3.2).
We successfully download368,762 content identifiers (CIDs)
(≈ 86.60% of all CIDs) in the denylist.
3.2 Content Classification
To gain a more nuanced understanding of the badbits content,
we classify the content in the list.
MIME Types. We classify the content based on the MIME
type into the following categories: documents (e.g. pdf, epub),
text (e.g. plaintex, json), html, binary and multimedia.
Text Description. We also generate a text-based description
of the material, in cases of text and image content. For docu-
ments, (e.g. PDFs, epub), we use the open-source GPT Mistral
model [47]. This model can extract the language and field/-
subject of any given file. For HTML files classified as phish-
ing, we further obtain names or categories of the imitated
target website using the target field in APS. We submit the
remaining unclassified files to Google Bard Large Language
Models (LLM) [45] asking it to indicate the target domain.
We manually verify the domain detection on 100 files with
100% accuracy.
For images, we use BLIP2 pre-modal pre-training
method [57] that combines image encoders and LLMs. We
verify our BLIP2 classification on a small sample of 1,000
files manually classified by ProtocolLab/APS with 98% accu-
racy. We also calculateSHA256 hashes for all the downloaded
content and submit them to the IWF [43] for a check against
their CSAM database.
From the 368,762 successfully downloaded denylist files,
265,287 (≈ 71.94%) are PDFs, 25,628 (≈ 6.95%) are ePubs,
12,574 (≈ 3.41%) are DjVu files (a type of scanned docu-
ment), and 7,412 (≈ 2.01%) are HTML files.
Threat Types.We classify all CIDs in the denylist taken from
APS as phishing (as those services exclusively list phish-
ing content). To classify the threat type of the remaining
content, we first use information from the takedown request
emails. We extract the takedown reason from these emails
(see Appendix A.2), and classify CIDs into their correspond-
ing category (see Appendix A.2 and A.3): Digital Millennium
Copyright Act ( DMCA), Phishing, CSAM, Animal Abuse
Material ( AAM), and Terrorist content. This allows us to
label 12,170 of the badbits CIDs.
Partial data about threat types is also hosted in GitHub,
containing information about the reason for the inclusion of
certain CIDs in the badbits list. We, therefore, use information
from GitHub from 2021-02-17 to 2024-01-12, accessed by
the same former Protocol Labs researchers (with permission).
This enables the classification of 154,465 additional CIDs
added to the badbits list before 2023-10-22 ( i.e. before the
email logs are available).
The above data sources allow us to label 45% (166k) of
the downloaded files with their threat type. To cover the re-
maining, we submit them to VirusTotal.2 This successfully
classifies 6,996 ( 1.9%) files. For the 195k (53%) files that
remain unclassified, we employ a local instance of LLAMA2
LLM [71], as detailed in Appendix A.4. We feed it with ex-
amples of classified content (classification done by Protocol
Labs, VirusTotal, andAPS) including the content MIME type
and the text description. We then feed it the remaining sam-
ples and ask it to perform automatic classification. We classify
these files into threat types consistent with those in the badbits
list (see Figure 1 9 ): DMCA (i.e. copyright-protected con-
tent), phishing, malware, terrorist content and explicit content
(i.e. including CSAM and AAM). This gives us labels for
88% of files in the denylist.
3.3 Content Hosting and Consumption
We next gather data on the nodes hosting content in the
denylist (i.e. providers) and the users requesting it (i.e. con-
2https://www.virustotal.com
1510    33rd USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

sumers).
IPFS Hosting. We twice-daily collect all provider records
from the DHT for each CID in the denylist (see Figure 1 10 ).
We do this from 2023-11-01 to 2024-01-13, allowing us to
track who hosts the CIDs over time. We crawl the IPFS net-
work to obtain the list of all peer IDs in the DHT and map each
CID to the peers responsible for hosting the provider records
for that CID, using the techniques from [72]. Then, we di-
rectly contact the peers with requests for the provider records
of the CIDs. This technique avoids costly DHT queries and
limits the impact of the study on the network.
Every three days, we also query the cid.contact indexer
for provider records of all badbits CIDs [54]. We choose this
interval to comply with the indexer’s policy and its rate limits.
During the period of the study, the queried indexer was the
only one operational. This data augments the aforementioned
DHT data of providers hosting CIDs on the badbits list.
Gateway Hosting. We also identify content available via
IPFS HTTP gateways. We start with the list of public gate-
ways maintained by Protocol Labs [51] (see Figure 1 11 ).
We then expand it with a manual set of additional popular
public gateways, and finally add any gateways identified in
the URL feeds from the ThreatChase Intelligence Platform.3
Finally, we add any gateways present in a passive DNS dataset
obtained from the Farsight SIE passive DNS channel [40].
This dataset covers all requests made from mid-November
2023 to February 2024. Specifically, from this dataset, we ex-
tract any CIDs embedded within the Fully-qualified Domain
Name (FQDN). Note that clients can request content from a
gateway by embedding the CID as a subdomain [22].
We then implement a gateway checker that verifies the
accessibility of all the denylist CIDs from every gateway on
the gateway list. Our software probed the gateways from 2023-
12-27 to 2024-01-31 every three days to avoid rate limits (see
Section 7.1).
Consumers. We finally gather data to estimate the demand for
each item on the denylist. For this, we extract all the requests
for CIDs on the denylist present in the passive DNS, Bitswap
and DHT logs. Furthermore, we log the date when each CID is
first requested. We observe 7M, 420M, and 63M requests via
the DNS, Bitswap and DHT data, respectively. These cover
417,912 unique CIDs.
4 A Badbits Denylist Primer
4.1 Overview of Badbits Compilation
Takedown Request Emails. The takedown email data pro-
vides insight into the types of content concerns that third par-
ties flag within IPFS. Figure 2 shows the number of takedown
3We do this by extracting the domains from URLs that contain a CID and
match the correct regular expression.
request emails and CIDs received, spanning from 2023-10-22
until 2024-01-11. We break these down into our takedown
classification and separately plot the numbers included on the
badbits list vs. those discarded by the moderation team. Note,
emails, and CIDs marked as “Not Included” could either be
discarded items or simply not yet acted upon by the review
team.
We observe that over60% of all email takedown requests
are accepted for inclusion in the badbits list. This initially
suggests that the quality of takedown notices is relatively high,
with fewer examples of miscellaneous submissions. However,
Figure 2 also plots the equivalent results based on the number
of CIDs (because each email can contain multiple CIDs). In
stark contrast, we find that the majority of CID takedown
requests are actually rejected.
To understand why, we inspect the takedown classification
categories, where we see notably different patterns. Closer
inspection reveals that these patterns are driven by the ten-
dency for DMCA emails to include up to eight times more
CIDs than phishing takedown request emails [19]. Mirroring
prior observations [46] in traditional web hosting, it seems
that such agencies ‘optimistically’ send many requests, even
though they are not verified. We argue that this strategy cre-
ates a significant load, mandating the need for automated tools.
Despite the dominance of DMCAs, a minority of emails are
also classified as CSAM, terrorist content, or other reasons
(< 1.3% of all emails and < 1% of all CIDs), confirming that
moderation requirements are diverse.
Included Rejected0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000Count
CIDs
DMCA Phishing Other
Included Rejected 0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
Count
Emails
Figure 2: Received takedown emails by category from 2023-
10-22 until 2024-01-11. Note that one email may contain
multiple CIDs. “Other” includes categories like CSAM, ter-
rorist content, unblock requests, or unspecified reasons.
List Evolution. Figure 3 next shows the growth of the bad-
bits list over time. We plot the absolute number of CIDs
received alongside the types. This graph shows that, through-
out the existence of the list, the majority of CIDs included
are DMCA-related. We also note a recent growth of the list.
Almost 90% of the badbits CIDs are added in 2023 alone. We
conjecture that this is due to the increasing popularity of the
system, which has attracted more users and providers. More
USENIX Association 33rd USENIX Security Symposium    1511

importantly, it also has attracted the attention of numerous
copyright-enforcement agencies [19].
May
′21 Sep
′21 Jan
′22
May
′22 Sep
′22 Jan
′23
May
′23 Sep
′23 Jan
′24
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%Classiﬁcation Share in the Denylist
DMCA
Phishing
Other
Unclassiﬁed
0
1
2
3
4
Total CIDs in the Badbits in 10 5
Total CIDs
Figure 3: Badbits list evolution by type of threat.
Reaction Time. We are also curious to investigate the time
needed to include content on the badbits list. This gives in-
sight into the duration that content can circulate before being
identified and moderated. Figure 4 plots the CDF of the num-
ber of days from the time we have first seen the content in
our Bitswap and DHT logs to the inclusion of its CID on the
badbits list. We also include the reaction time after receiving
the associated takedown email (from 2023-10-22 until 2024-
01-11). For comparison, we use the reaction time of APS
in filtering phishing URLs requesting IPFS content through
gateways.
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200
Content Filtering Reaction Time [days]
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0CDF
Protocol Labs
Protocol Labs from email reception
ASP
Best
PL Phishing
Figure 4: CDF with reaction time distributions for different
providers.
For 50% of CIDs flagged for inclusion, the CID is placed
on the badbits list within less than 24 hours. This suggests
that the list is up-to-date and it rapidly reacts to reported
content. However, this process naturally relies on the timely
submission of takedown notices by third parties. That said,
we witness a significant delay between the time content is
first requested within IPFS and the time a takedown email is
sent to Protocol Labs. This means that, on average, content
is available in IPFS for 713 days before being included on
the badbits list. In contrast, the reaction time is significantly
shorter for APS, adding gateway URLs onto their list in less
than a day for most of the CIDs. This indicates that they
receive more timely takedown notices than Protocol Labs.
4.2 Overview of Badbits Content
The above has exposed an active and growing list of material
in badbits. We next characterize this content.
Unknown
(4.1%)
application/epub+zip
(7.9%)
application/pdf (81.6%)
image/vnd.djvu
(3.9%)
Unknown
(63.4%)
text/html
(33.0%)
Unknown
(100.0%)
DMCA Phishing Unknown Other
Figure 5: Percentage of content and threat type.
Content Overview. Figure 5 shows the threat and content
types associated with denylist content. The “Unknown” file
type indicates cases where we did not download the refer-
enced file because of unavailability or it being labeled as
CSAM. Reflecting our earlier observations, ≈ 87.97% of
CIDs are filtered because of copyright violation (i.e. DCMA).
This threat covers mostly PDF and epub files. The second
most common threat is phishing ( 5.81%) with HTML files
and images used as elements of deceptive websites. The re-
maining threats (e.g. malware, terrorist, and explicit content)
constitute less than 1% of the CIDs on the denylist.
Figure 6: Frequency of subject area keywords for DMCA
content.
DMCA. Figure 6 presents the language and subject/area of
the DMCA documents. In total, we detect 41 languages. How-
ever, the vast majority of documents are in English (84%) and
German (12.4%), likely making moderation reviews more
straightforward. Interestingly, most of the documents repre-
sent academic articles and academic textbooks. We find that
this is driven by multiple shadow libraries such as the Free
Library, Anna’s Archive, and Nexus Search [26, 29, 44] mi-
grating their content to IPFS. This choice perhaps reflects a
1512    33rd USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

perception in such communities that IPFS is an effective tool
for hosting censorship-resistant material.
Phishing. Content classified as phishing contains mostly
HTML files and images used for creating deceptive web-
sites. In most cases, these appear to be phishing pages that
are accessed via gateways using URLs. Specifically, attackers
host their pages in IPFS but encourage normal web users to
access them by providing HTTP URLs via the gateway ser-
vices. To explore this further, for the HTML files, we obtain
the target domain that the file is trying to imitate. We dis-
cover 195 victim services and websites and group them into
categories. Figure 10 plots the distribution. 49.4% of these
URLs target mail services, 8.8% target file transfer services
such as Wetransfer, and 3% hit Microsoft services and web-
sites. To give insight into this content, Figure 7 also presents
a word cloud of the phishing image descriptions. Confirming
the above victim analysis, we observe logos of multiple com-
panies such as Apple, Yahoo, and Microsoft. Furthermore, the
classic elements forming login forms and navigation elements
are present (e.g. “sign”, “envelope”, “button”). Beyond the
major mail portals, the remaining phishing targets are mainly
shipment services such as DHL, financial companies like Visa
and Mastercard, and social media networks. This suggests
that there is, indeed, an important need for mitigation, as these
seem to target high-risk areas, e.g. banking.
Terrorist Content. Concerningly, the denylist also contains
255 CIDs marked as terrorist content. This includes doc-
uments, videos, images and audio files. To understand the
nature of this material, we focus on documents and images,
which constitute more than 60% of the content. Figure 8
presents a word cloud of keywords in the content descrip-
tion. Surprisingly, we observe love and poem being the most
repeated words. This results from a collection of literature
acting as motivation for terrorist actions [49]. We further
spot practical guides on how to blend into society without
raising suspicions (e.g. home, marriage, job, business). The
content relates to multiple groups and geographic locations
(kurdish workers, egypt, kuwait). Finally, we observe multiple
keywords related to religion and beliefs ( e.g. islam , tradi-
tional, anti-western). Multiple PDFs contain Twitter screen-
shots with terrorist propaganda being reflected by the tweets
keyword.
Explicit Content. Finally, our classification finds a small
number of items on the denylist that could be classified as
explicit. Figure 9 illustrates the keywords found in the image
descriptions classified as explicit content. Multiple intuitive
keywords (e.g. girl, naked, underwear) indicate the presence
of pornography. For added safety, we send theSHA256 hashes
of all the images to the IWF [43] that supports online organi-
zations in filtering CSAM. Only three images were present
in the IWF database and were classified as hentai, a style
of Japanese pornographic anime and manga. For the content
classified by Protocol Labs as CSAM, we are currently col-
laborating with the IWF to ethically and legally download
and verify those files.
5 A Provider Perspective
Provider Geo-locations. Figure 11 shows the geographical
distributions of all 10,668 unique badbits CID hosts that
we observe between 2023-11-01 and 2023-11-30. We chose
this timeframe because this is the only full month where our
DHT and IPNI datasets overlap. Note that we identify unique
providers by their peer ID. Figure 11a) shows that we can only
geolocate around 30% of providing peers. This is because the
provider records either do not contain network addresses and
we could not find them in the DHT (20.5%), or the network
addresses are private IP ranges (49.7%). The presence of pri-
vate IPs in the provider records is an interesting phenomenon
already reported in previous studies [32]. Potential explana-
tions include misconfiguration (e.g. clients using the wrong
interface) or outdated software. Only a minority of provider
records contain non-private IP addresses that are not found in
the Maxmind database (< 0.1%).
Figure 11b) shows again the geographical distributions of
all unique badbits CID providers, with each provider now
weighted by the number of unique CIDs it hosts. We find
376,201 unique CIDs, with providers in the US and Nether-
lands sharing most. “Circuit” providers (aka circuit relay
peers) are special to the IPFS network and exclusively relay
control messages to facilitate NAT traversal [65] ( i.e. they
do not exchange traffic of actual content). Their presence
hints at a large number of providers operating from residen-
tial networks — and therefore requiring NAT traversal. Their
geographical location is, therefore, not necessarily representa-
tive of the geographical presence of the content providers that
exchange actual content traffic. Their presence suggests that
some parties may also use circuit relays to mask the hosting
of badbits material.
CIDs per Provider.Figure 12 shows the distribution of the
number of CIDs hosted per provider for all providers we ob-
serve in either the DHT (top) or the Indexer (bottom). The
graphs show that, at any point in time, over 99% (DHT) and
70% (Indexer) of the providers host just between 1 and 10 bad-
bits CIDs, respectively. However, about0.1% (i.e. between
one and three peers) of providers in the DHT host between
104 and 105 unique CIDs, which comprises up to 25% of the
entire badbits list. In fact, we find single peers in the DHT
and Indexers, respectively, that claim to provide more than
19% and 63% of the entire badbits list. This suggests that the
badbits hosting ecosystem is relatively fragile, and significant
volumes of content could be removed with just a small set of
targeted takedowns.
Providers per CID. The above fragility may be misleading,
as many different nodes could host an individual CID. Thus,
Figure 13 shows the distribution of the number of providers
USENIX Association 33rd USENIX Security Symposium    1513

Figure 7: Word cloud of phishing im-
age descriptions.
Figure 8: Word cloud of descriptions
of blocked terror-related PDFs.
Figure 9: Word cloud of descriptions
of explicit images.
Figure 10: Frequency of services and websites targeted by
phishing campaigns.
n.a. US Circuit CN DE
a) Country
0%
20%
40%
60%Share of all Providers
Unweighted
NL US Circuit BG DE
b) Country
0%
10%
20%
30%Share of all Providers
Weighted by # of Provided CIDs
Figure 11: Geolocation distribution of 10,668 unique content
providers identified by their peer ID aggregated from 2023-
11-01 to 2023-11-30.
hosting each CID. Under 0.1% of all provided CIDs were
hosted by a single peer over the measurement period. This
suggests that the ecosystem is, in fact, far less fragile than
the earlier results would suggest: We even find a single CID
from the badbits list that is provided by over 91% of all DHT
and Indexer peers. Complicating matters, we also witness a
growth in replication levels over time. Towards the end of the
measurement period, the number of providers per badbits CID
seen in the Indexer grows. By the end of our measurement
period, the majority of CIDs have five to ten unique providers.
We hypothesize that this may be because the Indexer does not
automatically remove provider records itself, suggesting that
some could be stale (see Section 2). Either way, we argue that
this makes takedowns in IPFS more challenging.
CID Churn. Considering the presence of potential take-
down attempts, we next measure the underlying churn of
07. Nov ’23 26. Nov ’23 11. Dec ’23 26. Dec ’23 10. Jan ’24
105
104
103
102
101
100
CIDs per ProviderDHT
Data
Gap
15. Oct ’23 04. Nov ’23 13. Dec ’23 16. Jan ’24
106
105
104
103
102
101
100
CIDs per ProviderIPNI
0
1
2
3
Total Providers in 103
Total Providers
 0.1%
1%
10%
100%
Share of All Providers
0.0
0.5
1.0
Total Providers in 102
Total Providers
1%
10%
100%
Share of All Providers
Figure 12: Distribution of the number of unique badbits CIDs
hosted per provider and the total number of unique badbits
CID providers. CIDs are grouped into bins according to the
ticks in the left y-axis. The color indicates the share of all
providers that host CIDs in any bin. The right y-axis shows
the total number of badbits CID providers that were found in
the DHT/IPNI at the time of the measurement.
DHT providers on the badbits CIDs, depicted in Figure 14.
Here, we measure churn by considering CIDs that started and
stopped being provided within our total measurement win-
dow from 2023-11-01 and 2024-01-12. This means, from the
298,951 CIDs that were provided in the DHT (this excludes
CIDs solely indexed in the Indexer), we only consider 60.4%
(180,523). The remaining ones were either already present in
the network when we started our measurements or were still
provided after we stopped.
The graph shows that half of the CIDs added to the badbits
are not retrievable after roughly two days. Although this could
be because of takedown attempts, we suspect this is through
natural churn. The graph also shows that CIDs classified as
phishing have a lower churn rate and hence stay longer in the
network. Looking at the Indexer, we find that indexed provider
records exhibit virtually no churn as only 11 out of 304,495
badbits CIDs are removed during the measurement window
from 2023-10-06 and 2024-01-28. We hypothesize that this is
1514    33rd USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

07. Nov ’23 26. Nov ’23 11. Dec ’23 26. Dec ’23 10. Jan ’24
1000
100
10
5
2
1
Providers per CIDDHT
Data
Gap
15. Oct ’23 04. Nov ’23 13. Dec ’23 16. Jan ’24
1000
100
10
5
2
1
Providers per CIDIPNI
0
5
10
Total CIDs in 10 5
Total CIDs
0.1%
1%
10%
100%
Share of Total CIDs
0
10
20
30
Total CIDs in 10 5
Total CIDs
0.1%
1%
10%
100%
Share of Total CIDs
Figure 13: Distribution of the number of providers hosting
a single CID and the total number of hosted badbits CIDs.
Providers are grouped into bins according to the ticks on
the left y-axis. The color indicates the share of all CIDs that
providers host in any bucket host. The right y-axis shows the
total number of badbits CIDs that were found in the DHT/IPNI
at the time of the measurement.
again because Indexer records are not automatically removed.
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
Days
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
CDF
All (180,523)
DMCA (87,353)
Phishing (1,903)
Other (28)
Unclassiﬁed (91,239)
Figure 14: Provider record churn in the DHT. The numbers
in parenthesis show the total number of CID uptime measure-
ments for each curve. The measurement resolution is 12h.
6 A Consumer Perspective
We now turn our attention to consumers. We explore who re-
quests denylist content through IPFS protocols and gateways,
and estimate the popularity of such material.
Injection of new CID Requests. We first analyze when the
denylist CIDs were first requested in the network. Figure 15
shows the number of unique, new denylist CIDs requested
via Bitswap per month. The labeled dates indicate notable
events in the IPFS user community, likely contributing to the
reported numbers. At 1 , the Free Library project, a shadow
library similar to Libgen or Sci-Hub, announced that it was
operating on IPFS [44, 75]. At 2 , the Nexus project, another
shadow library popular using Telegram bots to share con-
tent, announced the release of their latest index and dataset
on IPFS [23]. At 3 , Anna’s Archive, an aggregation and
indexing project for multiple shadow libraries and knowledge
collections, announced they moved the contents of Z-Library,
a shadow library recently taken down, to IPFS [28, 29]. Fi-
nally, at 4 , the Nexus project announced a web frontend on
IPFS/IPNS called the Standard Template Construct [26]. The
project is particularly vocal about their use of IPFS to combat
censorship, with frequent posts about updates and new mate-
rial accessible via their interfaces as well as encouragements
to install IPFS on user machines [24, 25, 27]. Note, the initial
spike in 2021 is caused by the start of our data collection, i.e.
all CIDss are new. Importantly, these bursty patterns create
significant challenges for the moderation team, which must
handle intense volumes of takedown notices in relatively short
periods. Thus, needing to capacity manage for the peak (rather
than the average) likely increases cost and complexity.
31 42
0
30
60
90
120
2021 2022 2023 2024
Date
CIDs (×103)
DMCA Phishing Unknown Other
Figure 15: Number of denylisted CIDs seen via Bitswap per
month.
Content Popularity. We next investigate the popularity
of denylist CIDs. Specifically, we compare the number of
denylist CID requests seen against the overall number of re-
quests in our Bitswap traces. Over the entire period, we see an
average of 14.23× 103 denylist vs. 42.00× 106 other unique
CIDs per day. This suggests that only a very small (≈ 0.034%)
part of IPFS traffic requests denylist content. Closer inspec-
tion of Figure 15 shows that this almost exclusively consists
of copyright-protected content. This is in sharp contrast with
the HTTP gateway traffic that we analyze in the next section.
Figure 16 plots the number of requests for denylist content
over time. For this plot, we first count the number of unique
denylist CIDs, as well as the number of unique (CID, PeerID)
tuples requesting denylisted CIDs, per month. Counting re-
quests via unique (CID, PeerID) tuples avoids overcounting
due to repeated requests, which happen when content is un-
available [31]. We observe a growing number of denylist CID
requests, suggesting that demand for such content is expand-
ing. Between January 2021 and November 2023, the number
of requests increased 8-fold to almost 2× 106 requests per
USENIX Association 33rd USENIX Security Symposium    1515

month. Further, we observe a sharp increase in the number of
requests for CID classified as phishing starting from Novem-
ber 2022. In January 2024, the phishing queries constituted
≈ 50% of all requests for denylist content. This date corre-
lates with the wider deployment of gateways, which facilitate
access to IPFS content (see Section 2) and potentially help
spreading IPFS-hosted phishing websites by making them
available via HTTP. We suspect that these request patterns
could also be exploited by the moderation team to help allo-
cate resources to checking particular types of material.
31 42
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2021 2022 2023 2024
Date
Requests (×106)
DMCA Phishing Unknown Other
Figure 16: Number of unique peerID/CID combinations re-
questing denylisted CIDs via Bitswap, by threat type.
Geographical Request Flow. Now that we have a profile of
both providers and consumers, we conclude by studying the
flow of content between these two parties. Figure 17 shows the
request flow from the request initiator to the denylist content
provider’s Maxmind location for all traced Bitswap requests
and unique content providers (DHT and Indexer) from 2023-
11-01 until 2023-11-30. Note that we count requests for CIDs
hosted by several providers multiple times in the diagram (as
we do not know the ultimate provider that the client selects).
In total, we observe 5,597,343 requests and 10,668 unique
content providers (as identified by their peer ID).
The Sankey diagram reveals a number of interesting trends.
We see that the largest share of both requests and providers
comes from the US. We see that some countries contribute
more proportionate “demand” than “supply”. For example,
Germany requests 7x more unique badbits items than it serves
itself. In contrast, the Netherlands only requests 50% of
unique badbits CIDs that they provide.
7 A Gateway Perspective
In this section, we look at the HTTP gateways, as these are
a rationale location where content filtering may take place.
We investigate to what extent they block denylist content, and
test potential filter circumvention techniques.
Figure 17: Geographical request flow (2023-11-01 to 2023-
11-30). Same CID requests are considered multiple times.
7.1 Access via Gateways
We manually breakdown the 431 gateways in our dataset into
four categories: 1. operated by Protocol Labs, 2. operated by a
large CDN, 3. public gateways listed on the ipfs.tech gate-
way tracker [51] (excluding the ones in 1 and 2), 4. ephemeral
gateways, 5. others. The ephemeral and others categories con-
sist of unlisted gateways discovered from the ThreatChase
Intelligence Platform and the passive DNS dataset. In this
set, we identified 105 ephemeral gateways with hostnames
belonging to a subdomain of a Web3.0 hosting service named
Infura that provides IPFS Gateway-as-a-Service (GaaS) to its
clients. The service enables a quick deployment of a custom,
HTTP gateway. All the remaining gateways are classified as
others.
We test the availability of content via these gateways by
sending daily requests during the entire month of January
2024. To avoid overloading, we use a daily sample of 10,000
CIDs: 5,000 from badbits and 5,000 blocked by Web2 enti-
ties, i.e. ones from denylist but are not in badbits. Instead of
requesting and downloading the content, an HTTP HEAD
request is sent (as opposed to a GET) to which the gateway
responds with only the HTTP header containing, among other
things, an HTTP status code.
A gateway responds with HTTP status codes 410(Gone)
and 451(UnavailableForLegalReasons) for filtered content,
according to IPFS standards for public HTTP gateways [52].
We therefore classify responses containing those two codes
as Blocked. In contrast, we assume the content is Avail-
able if 200(OK) is returned. We categorize requests that re-
ceive other status codes, such as 500(InternalServerError),
504(GatewayTimeout), etc. and those that do not produce a
response within 10 seconds as Failure. This is mostly caused
by the content no longer being available in IPFS.
Figure 18 presents the results of our HTTP requests. We
observe significant inconsistent use of the badbits list across
operators. The gateways operated by Protocol Labs block
1516    33rd USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

nearly 100% of badbits, but this is not the case for other oper-
ators. The list is implemented, to some extent, by the public
gateways that are officially listed by Protocol Labs, but not by
the others. In particular, the CDN-operated gateways block
only around 18% of the requests for badbits CIDs, similar
to the gateways in the others category. We also observe low
adoption of the CIDs moderated by Web2 providers. The gate-
ways operated by Protocol Labs block none of them, while the
CDN-operated gateways block up to 7%. At the same time,
all the public and other gateways block some Web2-blocked
CIDs (average 18%). We suspect that this is caused by the
threat of the entire domain being blocked by mechanisms such
as Google Safe Browsing (GSB). Such cases were reported
in the past [68].
0 20 40 60 80 100
Percentage
(CDN, Web2)
(CDN, Badbits)
(Others, Web2)
(Others, Badbits)
(PL, Web2)
(PL, Badbits)
(Public, Web2)
(Public, Badbits)
(GaaS, Web2)
(GaaS, Badbits)
Gateway - CID Categories
RetrievalStatus
Blocked
Failure
Success
Figure 18: HTTP requests to gateways using a sample of
CIDs from badbits and Web2 denylists.
We also use the passive DNS dataset to determine the
CIDs requested from each gateway. A CID c can be re-
quested from some gateways either as a part of the FQDN
(e.g. http://c.gw.tld/) or as a part of the path ( e.g.
http://gw.tld/ipfs/c). The DNS dataset allows us to ob-
serve CIDs expressed in FQDN.4 It is also a method that we
noticed in more than 80% of URLs collected from APS.
Figure 19 shows the percentage of different types of re-
quests for the most popular gateways measured by the overall
number of requests. We observe that the gateways have a
varied percentage of denylist requests, with one measured
gateway showing 99% of requests attributed to phishing. This
is in contrast to the DHT results with only≈ 0.034% denylist
traffic share. This suggests that the gateways are frequently
used in phishing campaigns to disseminate malicious content
to victims without the need to install IPFS software.
7.2 Circumventing Gateway Filters
We conclude this section by testing several potential circum-
vention attacks on gateways. Specifically, there are multiple
ways of requesting content via a gateway — thus, we check
if all of these correctly implement filtering.
4this is the current recommended way of requesting CIDs from gateways
Figure 19: Percentage make-up of types of requests for the
top-10 popular gateways. The Y-axis is sorted by the overall
number of requests (the bottom is the most popular).
CID Versions. In our first experiment, we test whether gate-
ways correctly hash the CIDs to the correct badbits list format
before checking for a match. For that, we request blocked
content using the canonical, version 1 CID, as well as the
equivalent version 0CID [2], which is not directly included in
the badbits list. We randomly sample 100 CIDs out of those
that are in the top10% blocked by gateways. We request these,
as well as their version 0 counterpart, on 2024-02-04, and note
whether previously blocked content becomes available if ad-
dressed differently. We find no cases of this occurring and
thus conclude that all evaluated gateways correctly normalize
requested CIDs before checking against the badbits list.
Relative Paths. Next, we investigate how gateways handle
requests for blocked data internally. IPFS allows the stor-
age and retrieval of directories. We examine whether it is
possible to trick gateways into providing blocked content
by creating a wrapping directory around blocked objects.
For a blocked CID c, a request would then take the form
of http://gw.tld/ipfs/d/foo, where d is the CID of the
directory and foo is the name of a directory entry referencing
c. Upon receiving such a request, a gateway would first fetch
d from the network, translate foo to the linked CID c, and
then proceed with fetching c as usual. Assuming the parent
collection CID is not blocked, we thus check whether the gate-
way correctly checks these internal fetch operations, instead
of just the external, user-initiated ones.
We again sample 100 CIDs. We then create a directory
collection wrapping these CIDs and provide it using a non-
NATed node. Importantly, wedo not provide any of the ma-
licious content ourselves. Additionally, since the generated
CID for this block is only known to us, the chance of it being
used to spread malicious content is negligible.
We then attempt to retrieve the blocked content using a
path relative to the CID of the generated parent. We find
that only one gateway is vulnerable to this type of evasion.
This gateway officially blocked 68 CIDs, yet we were able
to circumvent the blocking for 67 of them (≈ 98.5%). The
failed evasion was not due to the content being blocked, but
unavailable. We suspect the one vulnerable gateway is running
outdated or custom software, whereas all other gateways use
USENIX Association 33rd USENIX Security Symposium    1517

a correct implementation. Notably, we also ran a preliminary
version of this experiment 5 at an earlier date (2023-12-19)
and found four additional vulnerable gateways operated by
Protocol Labs. We followed responsible disclosure and they
have now been fixed.
Alternative Hash Functions. The flexibility of CIDs allows
users to generate multiple CIDs for the same content using
different hash functions for the embedded digest. It is gen-
erally not possible to translate between these without access
to the content itself, which would need to be re-hashed using
the different functions. At the time of writing, the kubo [4]
implementation of IPFS supports 72 hash functions.
We conjecture that attackers could circumvent blocks by
generating multiple CIDs using different hash functions. We,
therefore, test whether any of the gateways perform advanced,
content-based blocking techniques, such as real-time content
analysis or generation of alternative CIDs hashes for the re-
quested content. We again sample 100 CIDs, selected from
the set of phishing CIDs.6 For these, we download the refer-
enced content and re-add it to the network using a different
CID (using a different hashing function). We then perform the
same experiment as outlined earlier, and remove the content
from our node immediately afterwards.
This circumvention attack is extremely effective. Out of
the 57 gateways blocking any of the requested content, we
are able to access the blocked content on 56. For these, eva-
sion was possible for the majority (97.4%) of usually blocked
CIDs. The missing evasions stem from unrelated issues, usu-
ally because the content is not returned completely within the
timeout. The one gateway on which evasion was not possible,
blocked all attempted evasions. Curiously, this was the one
gateway that was vulnerable to our previous relative paths
circumvention. We again suspect that they might be running
custom software that does not support the alternative hash
function. We have contacted them for clarification.
8 Discussion & Recommendations
We now discuss the limitations of the current content modera-
tion approach and propose new improvements.
8.1 Improving the badbits List
We first discuss the quality of the badbits list itself. As shown
in Figure 4, Protocol Labs usually processes all takedown
requests within a day, suggesting effective decision-making.
That said, traditional Web2 services such as APS and Virus-
Total seem to get informed faster and thus be able to react
quicker. We conjecture that this is caused by specializing in
specific types of threats (e.g. phishing) and having larger user
5see Appendix A.1 for details in the difference in methodology
6see Section 9 for ethical discussions about this experiment
bases reporting data items. Therefore, we posit that work-
ing with established Web2 partners could shorten the time
required to identify content. Automatic inclusion of content
items into the badbits list based on trust could expedite the
process. As a preliminary experiment, to simulate the process,
we extract CIDs in URLs blocked by APS and compare them
against the best detection time between Protocol Labs and
APS. If these CIDs were automatically imported, such an en-
hanced denylist would classify 227% more CIDs and reduce
the average reaction time by 43% compared to the current
badbits.
We argue that the above process could be a mutually benefi-
cial arrangement. We highlight this using our experiences with
VirusTotal. When we initially submitted the SHA256 hashes
of all the downloaded denylist files to VirusTotal, 1.2% of
them were marked as malicious, and 58% of the files were
not present in VirusTotal’s knowledgebase. This represents a
significant gap in VirusTotal’s knowledge base. Indeed, when
we checked VirusTotal again two weeks later, they discovered
some of the files badbits had already seen. An additional 3618
files were newly labeled as malicious, including phishing
(2421 files) and trojans (857 files), bringing the total to 2.2%.
Thus, we posit that inputs from the badbits list team could
help expand VirusTotal’s knowledgebase faster, identifying
content worth checking. A good candidate for such verifica-
tion would be by sharing content requested through gateways.
We found that this content has a much higher probability of
being harmful (Figure 19). We recognize that operators might
be unwilling to provide real-time feeds of content requested
through their gateways due to privacy concerns. However, the
inclusion of CIDs in the FQDN [3] means such data can be
seen through passive DNS monitoring anyway.
Another limitation of the current badbits list is that it does
not contain any taxonomy of content type or the reason for
its inclusion. We hypothesize that gateway operators have
different views on which types of threats should be filtered.
Indeed, we see that some gateways do not follow the full
badbits list (Figure 18). Thus, a concrete recommendation is
that the badbits list is augmented with information about the
nature of the content to better encourage uptake (e.g. allowing
gateways to only filter certain types of material). The list
should also have separate feeds for different jurisdictions,
especially regarding the DMCA content.
8.2 Improving Web2 URL Filtering
Many Web2 filter lists already include URLs for the IPFS
gateways, e.g. APS and GSB. We argue that their approach,
however, stems from a misunderstanding of how IPFS gate-
ways work. For example, we find that mostAPS blocked IPFS
URLs use the gateway URL (i.e. gateway + CID combination).
However, a CID can simply be requested via another gateway.
Thus, once access to a CID is blocked through a gateway,
malicious actors could just change the gateway domain to
1518    33rd USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

another one. Gateways-as-a-Service providers simplify the
process of deploying short-lived gateways.
We also repeat the same checks for GSB. To test this, we
create URLs from every combination of denylist CIDs and
gateways in our dataset and submit them to GSB to check.
Surprisingly, we find that the GSB blocks entire gateways,
rather than specific content URLs provided by them. We ob-
serve that GSB blocks 56 gateways entirely, yet it allows the
downloading of all denylist content from the remaining gate-
ways. In practice, this is extremely ineffective, particularly as
95% of blocked gateways are already offline. The remaining
5% does not implement any filtering, suggesting that they
could have been serving harmful content (helping to explain
why GSB blocks them).
Clearly, both of the above approaches to compiling URL
filter lists are ineffective for blocking IPFS gateway material.
Instead, we argue that they should maintain a list of blocked
CIDs — not gateway URLs. These CIDs can then be used
to generate a full set of URLs by combining them with all
known gateway domains. We are currently engaging with
OpenPhish, the Anti-Phishing Working Group, and Phishtank
to advocate for this change.
8.3 Improving IPFS Node Filtering
To date, the badbits list is mainly used by the gateways to
implement filtering. However, it still remains possible for
nodes to request badbits CIDs via the native IPFS DHT. As
of IPFS v0.24.0, there is support for blocklists that filter their
local files. However, this has not seen widespread uptake. To
improve efficacy, we argue that more comprehensive versions
of moderation should be introduced into the native IPFS net-
work. Unfortunately, this raises many philosophical, ethical
and technical questions. Our final recommendation is that the
IPFS developers explore the development of decentralized
moderation schemes that can answer such questions.
9 Ethical Considerations
Our study raises certain ethical queries, which we discuss
below. We sought ethical guidance from multiple institutions.
We got our methodology, datasets and the submitted version
of the manuscript reviewed by Protocol Labs. We further
coordinated our work with the IWF and got ethical approval
from the IRB of our host institution.
Our overarching goal is to derive general, non-personalized
insights about the spread of problematic content on IPFS. We
use collected data only for purposes that are permissible with
respect to Art. 6(4)GDPR. We operate within the bounds of
European data protection law, specifically Art. 5(1)(e)GDPR.
We host a user-facing website with our data management
policy.7 We are following data minimization practices: 1) we
7https://monitoring.ipfs.trudi.group/privacy_policy.html
store the sensitive data for up to 24 months or until we do not
need it anymore to complete our research, whichever comes
sooner; 2) we are constantly reflecting on our data storage
practices; 3) if we conclude that some data fields or whole data
sets are no longer needed for our intended purpose, we delete
them accordingly. All the acquired content was immediately
deleted after analysis.
We emphasize that the badbits dataset is publicly avail-
able, and there is no intrinsic way for us to map CIDs to
private metadata (e.g. the creator of the file). With permission,
the takedown request information came from researchers for-
merly at Protocol Labs. They only accessed the data while
still working at Protocol Labs and focused on only the CIDs
and the reason for the takedown request contained within the
email, which was parsed via script (as shown in Exhibit A.2).
Information about the email complainants was not reviewed
or used as part of this study.
Due to the sensitivity of the content, we also avoid man-
ual inspection of any material. To circumvent this, we took
extensive steps to formulate automatic pipelines capable of
classifying the content objects. This does involve download-
ing each object once. We configure our IPFS node to not
provide the downloaded content to other peers. We never
inspect the material ourselves and delete the content imme-
diately after classifying it. Importantly, at no point did we
download any content recorded as part of a CSAM takedown
request. Instead, we shared this information with theIWF and
followed their best practice advice at all times.
The files submitted to VirusTotal are publicly available.
We only upload those contained on lists curated by Protocol
Labs or APS. VirusTotal T&S indicate that the data is stored
and shared with authorized parties to “raise global IT security
levels”. We followed best practices as followed by numer-
ous previous studies that used VirusTotal [56, 59, 69]. Our
contribution enabled VirusTotal to detect an additional 3618
malicious files (phishing and trojans) and protect multiple
users from online harm.
We note that some of our measurements (the Bitswap, DHT
and gateway queries) introduce additional load onto IPFS. As
part of this, we rate-limited our queries to reduce the load
and, overall, believe that the study had a very minimal impact
on operations. This was confirmed by the former Protocol
Labs employees themselves, giving us confidence in its safety.
Unavoidably, these particular query datasets involved collect-
ing IP addresses. We do not attempt to map these back to
personal identities, as such analysis is not within the scope of
this study. Furthermore, after performing the geolocation and
AS mappings, we make no further use of any IP addresses.
Following this step, we perform IP address anonymization
using salted hashing The salt is discarded after anonymiza-
tion to prevent reverting the hash. Finally, we perform no
per-user analysis, and focus only on overall system analysis,
aggregating behaviors together.
When requesting data from gateways, we used HTTP
USENIX Association 33rd USENIX Security Symposium    1519

HEAD requests without actually downloading the files. This
minimizes the overhead and does not expose gateway opera-
tors to legal risks. The gateway filtering evasion experiments
raise certain ethical concerns because we try to circumvent the
blocking of malicious content, and because we ourselves had
to provide some data to the network to perform these experi-
ments. For theCID version experiment, we do not provide any
data and only check whether gateways correctly implement
the specification. For the directory entry evasion experiment,
we publish the wrapping directory block, but no malicious
content. This experiment also only checks conformance with
the suggested blocking methods. The last experiment, for
which we provide content using a different hashing function
(and thus an entirely newCID) raises limited ethical concerns.
The newly-generated CIDs are opaque and known only to us.
We stop providing the content after we concluded the experi-
ment. It is thus extremely unlikely the content could spread
due to this experiment.
10 Related Work
IPFS. In recent years, numerous studies focus on IPFS.
Trautwein et al. [72] present the design of IPFS and evaluate
its deployment and performance. Balduf et al. [31] conduct
a study monitoring data requests in IPFS. They also exam-
ined the viability of running IPFS in restrictive networks,
potentially evading censorship [33]. Wu et al. [77] explore
the feasibility of using IPFS for decentralized video stream-
ing. Sridhar et al. [67] investigate possible content censorship
issues in IPFS. Balduf et al. [32] present a study on the de-
centralization of IPFS and its implications. They similarly
highlighted the importance and high usage of public gate-
ways [30], in particular for NFT-related content. Daniel and
Tschorsch [37] propose a method for passively measuring
IPFS churn and network size. Prünster et al. [66] discuss
the potential eclipse attack on IPFS networks. Trautwein et
al. [73] explore techniques for accelerating record storage in
IPFS. Wei et al. [76] examine the role of centralization in
IPFS and its impact on system dynamics. In contrast to these
studies, we focus on content moderation activities in IPFS,
and the availability of problematic material. To the best of our
knowledge, no prior works have studied this. Our findings can
contribute to the design, performance, and security aspects of
IPFS.
Moderation in Decentralized Systems. Closest to our work
is research on malicious content and moderation in P2P net-
works, particularly BitTorrent. Cuevas et al. investigate con-
tent publishing motivations while proposing TorrentGuard to
combat scam and malware distribution [34, 35]. Farahbakhsh
et al. examine anti-piracy actions’ impact on BitTorrent pub-
lishers [41]. Fetscherin analyze movie piracy on KaZaA, high-
lighting challenges in decentralized file-sharing [42]. Zhou
et al. and Kalafut et al. address threats from P2P worms
and malware, emphasizing defense strategies [48, 78]. Zuo
et al. [80, 81] look at moderation in the memo.cash platform.
Das et al. [38] analyze the NFT ecosystem for security is-
sues. While these studies concentrate on P2P networks, our
research delves into similar challenges within IPFS. This is
particularly significant considering its evolving role in the
Decentralized Web as a storage layer.
11 Conclusion
This paper has studied content moderation in IPFS, one of the
largest platforms in the growing “Decentralized Web”. We
identified, characterized and measured the presence of prob-
lematic content in IPFS. We analyzed 368,762 files flagged
for inclusion on the Badbits denylist and found copyright
material, phishing scams, and even terrorist material.
We also examined whether IPFS gateways filter this con-
tent. Gateways play a critical role by facilitating access to
IPFS content via HTTP. Although the gateways operated by
Protocol Labs blocked all content with accepted takedown
requests, there was limited adherence by other operators. For
example, gateways operated by CDNs blocked just 19% of
such content. We also show that most gateways are vulnera-
ble to simple attacks, e.g. using alternative hash functions for
naming. We showed that this material was highly available
within the IPFS network as there is limited (or no) filtering
on IPFS nodes.
We addressed this problem with proposals to improve the
speed and quality of the content moderation process. Our solu-
tions increased in 227% the detection of phishing material and
reduced the average time to filter such content by 43%. We
hope that this work will help developers and operators in ad-
dressing the very challenging problem of content moderation
in a decentralized ecosystem.
References
[1] Anti-phishing working group: Unifying the global response to
cybercrime. https://apwg.org.
[2] Content identifiers. https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/
content-addressing/. Accessed: 2024-01-30.
[3] Ipfs gateway resolution style. https://docs.ipfs.tech/c
oncepts/ipfs-gateway/#gateway-request-lifecycle .
Accessed: 2024-02-09.
[4] An IPFS implementation in Go. https://github.com/ipf
s/kubo, 2016. Accessed: 2024-02-08.
[5] Discussify. https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/disc
ussify-browser-extension, 2018. Accessed: 2023-05-26.
[6] DTube. https://d.tube, 2018. Accessed: 2024-01-30.
[7] Ethlance. https://github.com/district0x/ethlance ,
2018. Access: 2023-22-01.
[8] Gala games. https://app.gala.games/games , 2020. Ac-
cessed: 2023-05-26.
1520    33rd USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

[9] IPFS ecosystem directory. https://ecosystem.ipfs.tec
h/, July 2020. Accessed: 2023-06-03.
[10] Matters News. https://matters.news , 2020. Accessed:
2023-05-26.
[11] dClimate. https://www.dclimate.net , 2021. Accessed:
2023-05-26.
[12] Deece. https://github.com/navinkeizer/Deece , 2021.
Accessed: 2023-05-26.
[13] Audius. https://audius.org, 2022. Accessed: 2023-05-26.
[14] Cisco: Interplanetary file system seeing ‘widespread’ abuse by
hackers. https://therecord.media/cisco-interplanet
ary-file-system-seeing-widespread-abuse-by-hac
kers, 2022.
[15] Space. https://github.com/ipfs- shipyard/space ,
November 2022. Accessed: 2023-05-30.
[16] Splinterlands. https://splinterlands.com/ , 2022. Ac-
cessed: 2023-05-26.
[17] OpenPhish: Phishing Intelligence. https://openphish.co
m/, 2023. Accessed: 2024-02-02.
[18] PhishTank: Join the fight against phishing. https://phisht
ank.org/, 2023. Accessed: 2024-02-02.
[19] Publishers carpet-bomb ipfs gateway operators with dmca no-
tices. https://torrentfreak.com/publishers-carpe
t-bomb-ipfs-gateway-operators-with-dmca-notices
-230625/, 2023.
[20] Threat actors abuse interplanetary file system protocol to
spread malware. https://duo.com/decipher/threat-a
ctors-abuse-interplanetary-file-system-protoco
l-to-spread-malware , 2023.
[21] URLhaus. https://urlhaus.abuse.ch , 2023. Accessed:
2024-02-02.
[22] Content Identifiers (CIDs). https://docs.ipfs.tech/con
cepts/content-addressing/, 2024.
[23] Telegram admins of the Nexus Channel. Update note on nexus
index «hermes». https://t.me/nexus_search/31, January
2021. Accessed: 2024-02-02.
[24] Telegram admins of the Nexus Channel. Distributing all
shadow libraries. https://t.me/nexus_search/168, Octo-
ber 2023. Accessed: 2024-02-06.
[25] Telegram admins of the Nexus Channel. Our own ipfs infras-
tructure. https://t.me/nexus_search/177 , November
2023. Accessed: 2024-02-06.
[26] Telegram admins of the Nexus Channel. Standard template
construct - copyright endgame. https://t.me/nexus_sea
rch/103, February 2023. Accessed: 2024-02-02.
[27] Telegram admins of the Nexus Channel. Weekly digest.https:
//t.me/nexus_search/171, October 2023. Accessed: 2024-
02-06.
[28] annas-blog.org authors. Help seed Z-Library on IPFS. https:
//annas-blog.org/help-seed-zlibrary-on-ipfs.ht
ml, November 2022. Accessed: 2024-02-02.
[29] annas-blog.org authors. Putting 5,998,794 books on IPFS.
https://annas-blog.org/putting-5,998,794-books
-on-ipfs.html, November 2022. Accessed: 2024-02-02.
[30] Leonhard Balduf, Martin Florian, and Björn Scheuermann.
Dude, where’s my NFT: Distributed infrastructures for dig-
ital art. In Proceedings of the 3rd International Workshop
on Distributed Infrastructure for the Common Good , DICG
’22, page 1–6, New York, NY , USA, 2022. Association for
Computing Machinery.
[31] Leonhard Balduf, Sebastian Henningsen, Martin Florian, Se-
bastian Rust, and Björn Scheuermann. Monitoring data re-
quests in decentralized data storage systems: A case study of
IPFS. In 2022 IEEE 42nd International Conference on Dis-
tributed Computing Systems (ICDCS) , pages 658–668, 2022.
[32] Leonhard Balduf, Maciej Korczy´nski, Onur Ascigil, Navin V
Keizer, George Pavlou, Björn Scheuermann, and Michał Król.
The cloud strikes back: Investigating the decentralization of
IPFS. In Proceedings of the 2023 ACM on Internet Measure-
ment Conference, pages 391–405, 2023.
[33] Leonhard Balduf, Sebastian Rust, and Björn Scheuermann. I’m
InterPlanetary, get me out of here! accessing IPFS from restric-
tive environments. In Proceedings of the 4th International
Workshop on Distributed Infrastructure for the Common Good ,
pages 13–18, 2023.
[34] Ruben Cuevas, Michal Kryczka, Angel Cuevas, Sebastian
Kaune, Carmen Guerrero, and Reza Rejaie. Is content publish-
ing in bittorrent altruistic or profit-driven? In Proceedings of
the 6th International COnference, pages 1–12, 2010.
[35] Rubén Cuevas, Michal Kryczka, Roberto González, Angel
Cuevas, and Arturo Azcorra. Torrentguard: Stopping scam
and malware distribution in the bittorrent ecosystem. Com-
puter Networks, 59:77–90, 2014.
[36] KOR Labs Cybersecurity. ThreatChase open platform for
protection against phishing. https://threatchase.korlab
s.io/, 2023.
[37] Erik Daniel and Florian Tschorsch. Passively measuring ipfs
churn and network size. In 2022 IEEE 42nd International Con-
ference on Distributed Computing Systems Workshops (ICD-
CSW), pages 60–65. IEEE, 2022.
[38] Dipanjan Das, Priyanka Bose, Nicola Ruaro, Christopher
Kruegel, and Giovanni Vigna. Understanding security issues
in the nft ecosystem. In Proceedings of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC
Conference on Computer and Communications Security , CCS
’22, page 667–681, New York, NY , USA, 2022. Association
for Computing Machinery.
[39] Alfonso De la Rocha, David Dias, and Yiannis Psaras. Accel-
erating content routing with bitswap: A multi-path file transfer
protocol in ipfs and filecoin, 2021.
[40] DomainTools. Farsight dnsdb. https://www.domaintools.
com/products/farsight-dnsdb/.
[41] Reza Farahbakhsh, Angel Cuevas, Rubén Cuevas, Reza Rejaie,
Michal Kryczka, Roberto Gonzalez, and Noel Crespi. Investi-
gating the reaction of bittorrent content publishers to antipiracy
actions. In IEEE P2P 2013 Proceedings , pages 1–10. IEEE,
2013.
USENIX Association 33rd USENIX Security Symposium    1521

[42] Marc Fetscherin. Movie piracy on peer-to-peer networks—the
case of kazaa. Telematics and Informatics , 22(1-2):57–70,
2005.
[43] Internet Watch Foundation. Eliminating child sexual abuse
online. https://iwf.org.uk , February 2024. Accessed:
2024-02-02.
[44] freeread.org authors. IPFS Free Library. https://freeread
.org/ipfs/, 2020. Accessed: 2024-02-02.
[45] Google. Bard - chat based ai tool from google. https://ba
rd.google.com, February 2024. Accessed: 2024-02-02.
[46] Damilola Ibosiola, Ignacio Castro, Gianluca Stringhini, Steve
Uhlig, and Gareth Tyson. Who watches the watchmen: Explor-
ing complaints on the web. InThe World Wide Web Conference,
pages 729–738, 2019.
[47] Albert Q Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Mensch, Chris
Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Florian
Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guillaume Lample, Lucile Saulnier,
et al. Mistral 7b. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06825, 2023.
[48] Andrew Kalafut, Abhinav Acharya, and Minaxi Gupta. A study
of malware in peer-to-peer networks. In Proceedings of the 6th
ACM SIGCOMM Conference on Internet Measurement , IMC
’06, page 327–332, New York, NY , USA, 2006. Association
for Computing Machinery.
[49] Elisabeth Kendall and Ahmad Khan. Jihadist propaganda and
its exploitation of the arab poetic tradition. Reclaiming Islamic
tradition: Modern interpretations of the classical heritage ,
pages 223–246, 2016.
[50] Protocol Labs. Bad bits denylist. https://badbits.dwebop
s.pub/. Accessed: 2024-02-06.
[51] Protocol Labs. IPFS Public Gateway Checker. https://ip
fs.github.io/public-gateway-checker/ . Accessed:
2024-02-02.
[52] Protocol Labs. Path gateway specification. https://spec
s.ipfs.tech/http-gateways/path-gateway/. Accessed:
2024-02-02.
[53] Protocol Labs. Bad Bits. https://badbits.dwebops.pub/,
February 2024. Accessed: 2024-02-02.
[54] Protocol Labs. CID Contact. https://cid.contact/ ,
February 2024. Accessed: 2024-02-02.
[55] Protocol Labs. Report copyright infringement on the ipfs
gateway service. https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/
1FAIpQLSekmfikDJ5mIS5YugnAinTfiuyJ4BgkqkkX18Dldp
irC3dUQ/viewform, November 2024. Accessed: 2024-02-02.
[56] Stevens Le Blond, Adina Uritesc, Cédric Gilbert, Zheng Leong
Chua, Prateek Saxena, and Engin Kirda. A look at targeted
attacks through the lense of an {NGO}. In 23rd USENIX
Security Symposium (USENIX Security 14) , pages 543–558,
2014.
[57] Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Silvio Savarese, and Steven Hoi. Blip-2:
Bootstrapping language-image pre-training with frozen im-
age encoders and large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2301.12597, 2023.
[58] libp2p. Hydra Booster, 2017.
[59] Yun Lin, Ruofan Liu, Dinil Mon Divakaran, Jun Yang Ng,
Qing Zhou Chan, Yiwen Lu, Yuxuan Si, Fan Zhang, and
Jin Song Dong. Phishpedia: A hybrid deep learning based
approach to visually identify phishing webpages. In 30th
USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 21) , pages
3793–3810, 2021.
[60] RTrade Technologies Ltd. Temporal. https://temporal.c
loud, 2020. Accessed: 2023-08-01.
[61] Petar Maymounkov and David Mazieres. Kademlia: A peer-
to-peer information system based on the XOR metric. In Inter-
national Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems, IPTPS. Springer,
2002.
[62] Almonit Organization. Almonit. https://almonit.eth.li
nk/, 2021. Accessed: 2023-06-02.
[63] Constantinos Patsakis and Fran Casino. Hydras and ipfs: a
decentralised playground for malware. International Journal
of Information Security, 18:787–799, 2019.
[64] Ian Preston. Peergos. https://peergos.org . Accessed:
2023-07-01.
[65] Protocol Labs. Hole punching in libp2p - Overcoming Fire-
walls. https://blog.ipfs.tech/2022-01-20-libp2p-h
ole-punching/, March 2022. Accessed: 2023-09-12.
[66] Bernd Prünster, Alexander Marsalek, and Thomas Zefferer. To-
tal eclipse of the heart – disrupting the InterPlanetary file sys-
tem. In 31st USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security
22), pages 3735–3752, Boston, MA, August 2022. USENIX
Association.
[67] Srivatsan Sridhar, Onur Ascigil, Navin Keizer, François Genon,
Sébastien Pierre, Yiannis Psaras, Etienne Rivière, and Michał
Król. Content censorship in the interplanetary file system.
2024.
[68] NFT Storage. Gateways and gatekeepers: How Google’s mis-
takes can still affect web3. https://blog.nft.storage
/posts/2022-04-29-gateways-and-gatekeepers . Ac-
cessed: 2024-02-02.
[69] Octavian Suciu, Radu Marginean, Yigitcan Kaya, Hal
Daume III, and Tudor Dumitras. When does machine learning
{FAIL}? generalized transferability for evasion and poison-
ing attacks. In 27th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX
Security 18), pages 1299–1316, 2018.
[70] Berty Technologies. Berty. https://berty.tech , 2018.
Accessed: 2023-05-26.
[71] Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Am-
jad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya
Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, et al. Llama 2:
Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.09288, 2023.
[72] Dennis Trautwein, Aravindh Raman, Gareth Tyson, Ignacio
Castro, Will Scott, Moritz Schubotz, Bela Gipp, and Yiannis
Psaras. Design and evaluation of ipfs: a storage layer for the
decentralized web. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM
2022 Conference, pages 739–752, 2022.
[73] Dennis Trautwein, Yiluo Wei, Ioannis Psaras, Moritz Schubotz,
Ignacio Castro, Bela Gipp, and Gareth Tyson. Ipfs in the
1522    33rd USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association

fast lane: Accelerating record storage with optimistic provide.
In IEEE INFOCOM 2024 - IEEE Conference on Computer
Communications. IEEE, May 2024.
[74] trudi group. IPFS Network Size Estimates. https://graf
ana.monitoring.ipfs.trudi.group/ , 2022. Accessed:
2024-02-01.
[75] Reddit user shrine. p2p Free Library: Help build humanity’s
free library on IPFS with Sci-Hub and Library Genesis.https:
//reddit.com/r/DataHoarder/comments/jb1hkn/p2p
_free_library_help_build_humanitys_free/ , October
2020. Accessed: 2024-02-02.
[76] Yiluo Wei, Dennis Trautwein, Yiannis Psaras, Ignacio Castro,
Will Scott, Aravindh Raman, and Gareth Tyson. The eternal
tussle: Exploring the role of centralization in ipfs. In 21st
USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Imple-
mentation (NSDI 24). USENIX Association, April 2024.
[77] Zhengyu Wu, ChengHao Ryan Yang, Santiago Vargas, and
Aruna Balasubramanian. Is ipfs ready for decentralized video
streaming? In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2023,
WWW ’23, page 3002–3010, New York, NY , USA, 2023. As-
sociation for Computing Machinery.
[78] Lidong Zhou, Lintao Zhang, Frank McSherry, Nicole Immor-
lica, Manuel Costa, and Steve Chien. A first look at peer-to-peer
worms: Threats and defenses. In Miguel Castro and Robbert
van Renesse, editors, Peer-to-Peer Systems IV, pages 24–35,
Berlin, Heidelberg, 2005. Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
[79] ZorrillosDev. Watchit. https://watchit.movie/ , 2022.
Accessed: 2023-05-23.
[80] Wenrui Zuo, Aravindh Raman, Raul J MondragÓN, and Gareth
Tyson. A first look at user-controlled moderation on web3
social media: The case of memo. cash. In Proceedings of the
3rd International Workshop on Open Challenges in Online
Social Networks, pages 29–37, 2023.
[81] Wenrui Zuo, Aravindh Raman, Raul J Mondragón, and Gareth
Tyson. Set in stone: Analysis of an immutable web3 social
media platform. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference
2023, pages 1865–1874, 2023.
A Additional Methodology
A.1 Initial Gateway Evasion Methodology
For the exploratory directory entry gateway evasion experiment
performed in December 2023, we did not create our own directory
block wrapper around often-blocked content. Instead, we searched
for occurrences of blocked CIDs in existing directories. This limits
both the directories used as well as the blocked content used for
testing, since we needed to find these directory entries.
A.2 Email Classification
The code snippet in Listing 1 shows the methodology to classify the
takedown emails.
1 for email in emails :
2
3 sender_domain = email . sender_domain ()
4 lower_subject = email . subject . lower ()
5 lower_body = email . body . lower ()
6
7 if " Copyright Enforcement Notice " in email . subject :
8 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . DMCA
9 elif " Notice of DMCA removal from Google Search " in email . body :
10 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . DMCA
11 elif " Notice of Claimed Infringement " in email . subject :
12 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . DMCA
13 elif " copyright infringing material " in lower_body :
14 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . DMCA
15 elif " DMCA Takedown Notice " in email . subject :
16 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . DMCA
17 elif " alerts@terrorismanalytics . org " in email . from_addresses :
18 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . TERRORIST
19 elif " Islamic state propaganda " in email . body :
20 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . TERRORIST
21 elif " child sexual abuse material " in lower_subject :
22 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . CSAM
23 elif " child sexual abuse material " in lower_body :
24 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . CSAM
25 elif " cruel animal abuse content " in lower_subject :
26 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . AAM
27 elif " cruel animal abuse material " in lower_subject :
28 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . AAM
29 elif " cruel animal abuse material " in lower_body :
30 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . AAM
31 elif " phising " in lower_subject : # typo
32 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . PHISHING
33 elif " phishing " in lower_subject :
34 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . PHISHING
35 elif " phish " in lower_subject :
36 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . PHISHING
37 elif " phishing " in lower_body :
38 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . PHISHING
39 elif " spamcop . net " == sender_domain :
40 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . PHISHING
41 elif " truelite . it " in email . reply_to_domains :
42 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . PHISHING
43 elif " scam email " in lower_body :
44 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . PHISHING
45 elif " restore " in lower_subject :
46 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . UNBLOCK
47 elif " unblock " in lower_body :
48 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . UNBLOCK
49 elif " unblock " in lower_subject :
50 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . UNBLOCK
51 elif " hosting a fake site that contains unauthorized resources " in
lower_body :
52 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . PHISHING
53 else :
54 unblock_strings = [
55 " unable to download pdf " ,
56 " the content is not illegal " ,
57 " the content that i requested has been blocked " ,
58 " contact has been blocked in error " ,
59 " unable to download books " ,
60 " error block " ,
61 " ircorrectly blocked " ,
62 " incorrectly blocked " ,
63 " blocked in error " ,
64 " please unblock "
65 ]
66 for str in unblock_strings :
67 if str in email . subject . lower () or str in email . body . lower () :
68 email . takedown_type = TakedownType . UNBLOCK
69 break
Listing 1: Takedown Email Classification
A.3 GitHub Information Classification
The query in Listing 2 shows how we identified any data points that
we could not match towards one of our predefined categories. It also
indicates which keywords correspond to which takedown type.
1 select *
2 from github_information gh
3 where not ( -- dmca
4 gh . title like ’% DMCA % ’
5 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’[ dmca ]% ’
6 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% dmca removal % ’
7 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% copyright % ’
8 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% infringing material % ’
9 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% infringing activity % ’
10 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% claimed infring % ’
11 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% rights infringement notice % ’
12 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% movie % ’
13 or lower ( gh . body ) like ’% digital millennium copyright act % ’
14 or lower ( gh . body ) like ’% infringing activity % ’
15 or lower ( gh . body ) like ’% infringing content % ’
16 or lower ( gh . body ) like ’% copyright infringement notice % ’
17 or lower ( gh . body ) like ’% copyright removal request % ’
18 )
19 and not ( -- terrorist
20 lower ( gh . title ) like ’% terrorism % ’
21 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% terrorist % ’
22 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% daesh % ’
23 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% islamic state propaganda % ’
24 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% isis west africa % ’
25 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% isis propaganda % ’
26 )
USENIX Association 33rd USENIX Security Symposium    1523

27 and not ( -- csam
28 lower ( gh . title ) like ’% child sexual abuse % ’
29 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% csam % ’
30 or lower ( gh . body ) like ’% child sexual abuse % ’
31 )
32 and not ( -- malware
33 lower ( gh . title ) like ’% malware % ’
34 )
35 and not ( -- phishing
36 lower ( gh . title ) like ’% phish % ’
37 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% social engineering % ’
38 or lower ( gh . body ) like ’% phish % ’
39 or lower ( gh . body ) like ’% fishing % ’
40 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% wetransfer % ’
41 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% criminal scam website % ’
42 or lower ( gh . body ) like ’% domain abuse % ’
43 or lower ( gh . title ) like ’% domain abuse % ’
44 )
45 and not ( -- not possible
46 gh . title ~ ’\[ takedown \] \d+ requests : ’’ Takedown request \d+ ’’’
47 )
48 and not (
49 gh . body = ’’
50 );
Listing 2: Takedown GitHub Information
A.4 GPT Query Process
To generate summaries and extract information using the GPT model,
there are three main components: the pre-prompt, the prompt, and
the instruction. Each component serves a specific purpose in guiding
the GPT model’s response.
Pre-prompt. The pre-prompt sets the context and provides any nec-
essary instructions or information before querying the GPT model.
It primes the model with relevant details to ensure accurate and
coherent responses. For text extraction we use the following:
1 pre_prompt_extraction0 = " In order to extract information , pay attention to the
2 following file \n"
For summaries, we do not provide a pre-prompt. For queries, we
use:
1 pre_prompt_query0 = " Pay attention and remember the information below , which
will help to answer the question or imperative after the context ends .\ n"
Prompt. The prompt is the actual query posed to the GPT model. It
directs the model on what information to generate or extract based
on the given context. For text extraction, we use:
1 prompt_extraction0 = " Using only the information in the document / file sources
above , extract : \n"
For summaries, we use:
1 prompt_summary0 = " Using only the information in the document / file / sources
above , write a condensed and concise summary of key results in a single
sentence ."
For queries, we use:
1 prompt_query0 = " According to only the information in the document / file
sources provided within the context above , "
Instruction. The instruction specifies the task or objective to be
accomplished by the GPT model. It provides further guidance to
ensure that the model’s response aligns with our research goals. For
PDF summaries, we use:
1 instruction = " Give a one - line summary of this document "
However, we have different prompts for each content type because
we observed that mentioning the file type in the prompt enhances
the quality of the response we get.
For the subject area we use:
1 instruction = " Give the subject area of the file or its field please , in
nothing more than 3 words "
Integration. When querying the GPT model, these components are
integrated to form a coherent request, structured as follows:
1 "{ pre_prompt_query }
2 { content }
3 { prompt_query }{ instruction }"
Note, the ordering might be different depending on whether we
are summarizing, extracting or querying the content.
By utilizing the pre-prompt, prompt, and instruction effectively,
we facilitate the querying process and enhance the quality of gener-
ated summaries, extracted information and labelling.
1524    33rd USENIX Security Symposium USENIX Association