W AKU-RLN-RELAY: Privacy-Preserving
Peer-to-Peer Economic Spam Protection
Sanaz Taheri-Boshrooyeh∗†, Oskar Thor ´en∗†, Barry Whitehat‡, Wei Jie Koh§, Onur Kilic¶, and Kobi Gurkan‖
∗Vac Research and Development, †Status Research and Development, Singapore, ‡Unafﬁliated,
§Independent,¶Unafﬁliated,‖cLabs
sanaz@status.im, oskar@status.im, barrywhitehat@protonmail.com,
contact@kohweijie.com, onurkilic@protonmail.com, me@kobi.one
©20xx IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media, including
reprinting/republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or
reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works.
Abstract—In this paper, we propose W AKU-RLN-RELAY as
a spam-protected gossip-based routing protocol that can run in
heterogeneous networks. It features a privacy-preserving peer-
to-peer (p2p) economic spam protection mechanism. W AKU-
RLN-RELAY addresses the performance and privacy issues of
the state-of-the-art p2p spam prevention techniques including
peer scoring utilized by libp2p, and proof-of-work used by e.g.,
Whisper, the p2p messaging layer of Ethereum. In W AKU-RLN-
RELAY, spam protection works by limiting the messaging rate
of each network participant. Rate violation is disincentivized
since it results in ﬁnancial punishment where the punishment
is cryptographically guaranteed. Peers who identify spammers
are also rewarded. To enforce the rate limit, we adopt the
suggested framework of Semaphore and its extended version,
however, we modify that framework to properly address the
unique requirements of a network of p2p resource-restricted
users. The current work dives into the end-to-end integration of
Semaphore into W AKU-RLN-RELAY, the modiﬁcations required
to make it suitable for resource-limited users, and the open
problems and future research directions. We also provide a
proof-of-concept open-source implementation of W AKU-RLN-
RELAY, and its speciﬁcations together with a rough performance
evaluation.
Index Terms —P2P, Spam Protection, Messaging, zkSNARKs,
Zero-Knowledge, Anonymity, Routing, Pub/Sub, Gossipsub
I. I NTRODUCTION
W AKU [1] is a family of peer-to-peer (p2p) protocols
for anonymous and privacy-preserving communication. It is
designed to be able to run in resource-restricted environments
e.g., limited computational power, bandwidth, and storage
space. Being p2p means that W AKU relies on no central
server. Instead, peers collaboratively deliver messages in the
network. W AKU-RELAY constitutes the transport layer of
W AKU and aims at being privacy-preserving in which no one
knows the owner and the receiver of a message except the two
ends of the communication. Many of the design choices in this
layer are centered around the anonymity requirement. W AKU-
RELAY follows a publisher-subscriber messaging model and
adopts a gossip-based routing protocol. It is a thin layer
over the libp2p GossipSub [2] routing protocol. In a pubsub
messaging model, peers congregate around topics they are
interested in and can send messages to topics. Each message
gets delivered to all peers subscribed to the topic. Each peer
has a constant number of direct connections/neighbors. To
publish a message, the author forwards its message to a subset
of neighbors. The neighbors proceed similarly till the message
gets propagated in the network of the subscribed peers. The
adopted gossip-based routing allows concealing the message
receiver hence greatly beneﬁts receiver anonymity [3].
In addition to W AKU-RELAY, W AKU features other
types of protocols for running in resource-restricted envi-
ronments. Among which are the request/response protocols
of 12/W AKU2-FILTER [1] which is a lightweight version
of W AKU-RELAY for devices with limited bandwidth, and
13/W AKU2-STORE [1] by which resourceful peers can persist
and offer historical messages to the querying nodes. Details
of these protocols are out of the scope of this paper and can
be found in the Waku RFCs [1].
As an open messaging network, W AKU-RELAY is prone
to spam messages. A spammer usually indicates an entity that
uses the messaging system to send an unsolicited message
(spam) to large numbers of recipients . However, in W AKU-
RELAY with an open and gossip-based structure, spam mes-
sages not only affect the recipients but also all the other peers
involved in the routing process where they have to spend their
resources e.g., computational power, bandwidth, and storage
capacity on processing spam messages. As such, we deﬁne
a spammer as an entity that uses the messaging system to
publish a large number of messages in a short amount of
time, in other words, has a high messaging rate. We deﬁne
messages issued in this way as spam regardless of the intention
of the spammer, the content of the message, and the number
of intended recipients.
The state-of-the-art p2p spam protection techniques for mes-
saging systems i.e., Proof of Work (PoW) [4] deployed by e.g,
Whisper [5] and Peer scoring [2] method adopted by libp2p
have their own shortcomings. The PoW technique imposes
a high computational cost for messaging hence devices with
limited resources won’t be able to participate and beneﬁt from
the messaging system. The peer scoring method is prone to
censorship and is also subject to inexpensive attacks where
the spammer can send bulk messages by deploying millions
of bots. The spam protection methods deployed by centralized
messaging platforms e.g., WhatsApp exhibit privacy issues
where they usually ask users to disclose and commit to some
piece of personally identiﬁable information e.g., phone number
and email address at the registration time. In addition to this,
the central provider is aware of messages owned and received
arXiv:2207.00117v1  [cs.CR]  30 Jun 2022

Figure 1. An overview of privacy-preserving p2p economic spam protection in W AKU-RLN-RELAY protocol.
by a particular user which is against privacy.
The economic-incentive spam protection mechanism of
W AKU-RLN-RELAY aims at coping with the aforementioned
issues where
1) It suits p2p systems and does not rely on any central
entity.
2) It is efﬁcient in terms of computation, storage, memory,
and bandwidth usage, hence suitable for a network of
heterogeneous peers with limited resources.
3) It respects users’ privacy unlike reputation-based and
centralized methods. It also allows global identiﬁcation
and removal of spammers while not requiring personally
identiﬁable information from the participants.
4) It deploys economic-incentives to contain spammers’
activity. Namely, there is a ﬁnancial sacriﬁce for those
who want to spam the system. Additionally, there is a
ﬁnancial reward to monitor the network for spam and
remove the offending users.
At a high level, W AKU-RLN-RELAY guarantees no one
can publish more than one message per epoch i.e., a time
interval, without being ﬁnancially charged. The spammer gets
removed from the network and will not be able to publish
further messages. The epoch length is a system parameter that
should be conﬁgured to meet the desired messaging rate and
application throughput. For example, while an epoch duration
of 1 second i.e., a messaging rate of 1 per second might
be acceptable for a chat application, might be too low for
communication among Ethereum network validators.
II. P RELIMINARIES : RATE LIMITING NULLIFIER
A. Semaphore
Semaphore [6] is a zero-knowledge signaling framework
on Ethereum. It allows a set of users to broadcast arbitrary
signals (where the signal is any value like a string, vote, etc.)
while proving they are among a group of authorized users
without disclosing their identities. Use-cases of Semaphore are
anonymous authentication and private voting. It also utilizes
external nulliﬁers to prevent double-signaling. An external
nulliﬁer can be seen as a voting booth where each user can
only cast one vote [7]. Casting a second vote for the same
booth will be rejected. Similarly, each signal is bound to an
external nulliﬁer, and each group member is allowed to signal
only once for that external nulliﬁer. While nulliﬁers can limit
the signal rate per user, there is no way to identify and remove
users who violate this rate limit. In an attempt to address
this shortcoming, an extended version of this method, using
Shamir Secret Sharing (SSS) [8] has been proposed called
Rate-Limiting Nulliﬁer or RLN for short. In RLN [9], if a user
attempts more than one signal for the same external nulliﬁer,
it reveals its identity/private key by which it has registered to
the group. As such, the identiﬁed identity key can be removed
from the group and the user won’t be able to signal anymore.
The removed user will be also ﬁnancially punished. The user
initially deposits some funds when joining the group, and
the fund will be rewarded to anyone who identiﬁes double
signaling of that user.
B. RLN: Semaphore with Shamir Secret Sharing
In this section, we present an overview of the extended
version of Semaphore that utilizes Shamir secret sharing [8]
to enable the identiﬁcation of spammers.
Each member has a private key sk and a public key
pk =H(sk) whereH is a Cryptographic hash function. These
are also called the identity key and the identity commitment,
respectively. The list of group members is stored in an Identity
Commitment Tree which is a Merkle tree [10] whose leaves
are members’ public keys. The root of the tree is denoted by
τ. The membership of a user in the identity commitment tree
is proven by providing a branch of the tree that connects the
root to that leaf corresponding to the user’s pk. This branch
is called authentication path and we denote it by auth. The
tree is stored on a smart contract deployed on the Ethereum
blockchain. Each user additionally needs to deposit some funds
in the contract at the time of registration.
Signaling is bound to a publicly known external nulliﬁer
denoted by ∅. When publishing signal m, a group member
utilizes (2,n)-Shamir secret sharing to derive a share (x,y )
of its private identity key sk where x = H(m) and y =
sk +H(sk,∅)∗x. (x,y ) will be published alongside with the
signal m.
The publishing user also calculates an internal nulliﬁer φ
asφ =H(H(sk,∅))) and publishes it together with the signal
m. Finally, a user needs to prove in a zero-knowledge manner
that
1) its secret key sk belongs to the identity commitment tree
namely i.e., provides proof of membership.
2) (x,y ) is a valid share of its identity key.
3) the internal nulliﬁer φ is correctly calculated.

The above items are proven through zkSNARKs i.e., a zero-
knowledge Succinct Non-interactive Argument of Knowledge
proof system where the circuit represents the aforementioned
constraints. The public inputs to the zero-knowledge proof
system are the message hash, the external nulliﬁer ∅, internal
nulliﬁer φ, the share of identity secret key (x,y ) and the tree
root τ whereas the private inputs provided by the message
owner are the identity secret keysk, the index ofpk in the tree,
and the authentication path auth. In W AKU-RLN-RELAY,
we utilize Groth16 [11] for the proof system. The parameter
generation can be done through a multi-party setup similar to
[12], [13], [14], [15].
The user submits its signal m, identity key share (x,y ),
and internal nulliﬁers φ to the contract to be stored and
accessible by the rest of the group members. The contract
maintains the state of all the group signals together with all
the metadata that can be used to identify double signaling.
If a user attempts two different signals for the same external
nulliﬁer∅, their internal nulliﬁers will collide, which signiﬁes
a double signaling attempt. Furthermore, the two shares of the
user’s identity key can be used to reconstruct itssk and remove
the user from the group. The sk reconstruction stems from the
fact that each line (polynomial of degree 1) can be uniquely
reconstructed by using two distinct points on it. In the case
of double signaling, the spammer reveals two distinct shares
(x,y ) and (x′,y ′) on liney =sk+H(sk,∅)∗x, which enables
the reconstruction of the line and its evaluation atx = 0 which
issk. The user who reconstructs the sk also gets rewarded by
a portion of the slashed user’s stake. This can be done by
communicating the recovered sk to the contract.
III. WAKU-RLN-RELAY C ONSTRUCTION
In this section, we describe the ﬂow of the economic spam
detection mechanism in W AKU-RLN-RELAY as also depicted
in Figure 1.
A. Overview of WAKU-RLN-RELAY vs Semaphore
W AKU-RLN-RELAY adopts the extended variant of
Semaphore i.e., RLN which provides the additional capability
of identifying spammers. However, further adjustments are
required to make it ﬁt a p2p routing system. Following is
the list of these adjustments that mainly affect the state of the
contract.
1) In W AKU-RLN-RELAY the state of the contract keeps a
simple ordered list of users’ identity commitments (instead
of Merkle tree) and the Merkle tree is kept off-chain by
individual peers. This is in contrast to the original setting of
Semaphore where the contract holds the entire commitment
tree. The reason for this design shift is to mitigate the
signiﬁcant computational cost/ gas consumption associated
with member insertion and deletion which is logarithmic
in the number of registered members. While the cost
associated with insertion in Semaphore could be amortized
by using batch insertion, this solution does not apply
to the deletion since deletion affects random leaves of
the tree which cannot be necessarily batched together.
W AKU-RLN-RELAY mitigates this problem as insertion
and deletion modify a single item of the list.
2) In W AKU-RLN-RELAY, users’ messages, and their meta-
data are not stored in the contract which is in contrast to
Semaphore. In W AKU-RLN-RELAY messages are stored
off-chain and are distributed through the W AKU-RELAY
routing protocol. It has the beneﬁts of 1) having higher
message propagation speed and 1) being more economic
(messaging is for free) as opposed to the on-chain message
store. In the on-chain message storage of Semaphore,
published messages will not be visible until blocks con-
taining those message transactions get mined. This results
in an unnecessary and undesirable delay which is not
acceptable for messaging systems with e.g., 1.1 million
messages per second 1. In an attempt to address this issue,
W AKU-RLN-RELAY decouples the message propagation
and storage from the contract state and provides a p2p and
off-chain medium for message transportation i.e., W AKU-
RELAY [1] and storage i.e., 13/W AKU2-STORE [1]. The
off-chain storage, adopted by W AKU-RLN-RELAY, has
another advantage of being more economic. That is it
saves the ﬁnancial cost (related to the gas consumption)
associated with message insertion into the contract state.
This cost for one-time messaging scenarios like voting
systems can be tolerable, however, it is far from practical
in a messaging application where there are millions of
messages transmitted per second.
Due to these adjustments, sending messages in W AKU-
RLN-RELAY is for free i.e., does not need gas consumption.
Furthermore, message transmission is not affected by the
underlying blockchain and its consensus layer. Such separation
allows the utilization of various optimization techniques on
the message transmission delay which would be otherwise
impossible due to reliance on the blockchain.
B. Setup and Registration
A peer willing to publish a message is required to register.
Registration is moderated through a smart contract deployed
on the public Ethereum blockchain. The state of the contract
contains the list of registered members’ public keys i.e.,
identity commitment keys. An overview of registration is
illustrated in Figure 2.
For the registration, a peer creates its identity private key
sk and its commitment pk = H(sk) and sends a transaction
to the contract to register its identity commitment pk in the
group. The transaction also transfers the v amount of Ether
to the contract. This amount is deposited on the contract to
prevent spam activity.
C. Maintaining the identity commitment tree
The construction and maintenance of the identity commit-
ment tree, unlike the original proposal of Semaphore [6],
is delegated to the peers. As we previously mentioned, the
reason is that the cost associated with member deletion and
1https://www.oberlo.ca/blog/whatsapp-statistics

Figure 2. Overview of registration process.
insertion is high and unreasonable. As such, each peer needs
to build the tree locally and listen to the contract’s events i.e.,
peer insertion and deletion, and update its tree accordingly.
Publishing peers must always stay in sync with the latest state
of the group. Otherwise, by making proof of membership to
an old version of the membership tree they can risk exposing
the index of their public key in the tree hence compromising
their anonymity.
D. External nulliﬁer
For the external nulliﬁer, we deﬁne epoch which is some
unit of time elapsed since the Unix epoch i.e., January 1,
1970 (midnight UTC/GMT). The epoch length is denoted
by T and its value is up to the application. It is mea-
sured as UnixTime/T where UnixTime indicates Unix
epoch time e.g., if UnixTime is 1644810116 seconds and
the epoch length is set to 30 seconds, then epoch =
⌈1644810116s/30s⌉ = 54827003. Peers locally keep track of
the current epoch and can publish one message per epoch.
E. Publishing
Each peer is allowed to send one message m per epoch
without being slashed/ﬁnancially punished. The ﬁnancial pun-
ishment is that the fund deposited by the spammer is rewarded
to the peer reporting spammer’s activity. To prove that the
peer is not a spammer and has not violated the messaging
rate for the current epoch, the peer is required to generate
some metadata and send them alongside the message m. The
metadata includes all the public inputs to the zkSNARKs as
explained in II-B i.e., a share of the peer’s identity secret key
i.e., (x,y ), the internal nulliﬁer φ, and the external nulliﬁer
∅ = epoch and the root of identity commitment tree τ
and zkSNARKs proof π. The peer then sends the message
bundle (m, (x,y ),φ,epoch,τ,π ) to its direct connections as
instructed by the routing algorithm i.e., W AKU-RELAY. An
overview of the publishing procedure is provided in Figure 3.
F . Routing and Slashing
Peers follow the regular routing protocol of W AKU-RELAY
and in addition check the metadata of each relayed message
to identify and spot spam messages and slash spammers. The
routing procedure is depicted in Figure 3.
Upon the receipt of a message (m, (x,y ),φ,epoch,τ,π ),
the routing peer needs to decide whether to route it or not.
The decision relies on the following factors:
1) If the epoch value attached to the message has more
than Thr gap with the routing peer’s current epoch, the
message is considered invalid and must be dropped. This
is to prevent a newly registered peer from spamming the
system by messaging for all the past epochs. Thr is a
system parameter.
2) The message must contain valid proof π that gets veriﬁed
by the routing peer.
3) The messaging rate is not violated.
If the preceding checks are passed successfully, then the
message is relayed. In case of invalid proof, the message is
dropped. If spamming is detected, the publishing peer gets
slashed and the slasher gets rewarded.
To identify spam messages, each routing peer keeps a local
record of the identity key share (x,y ) and the internal nulliﬁer
φ of all of its valid incoming message bundles for the past
Thr epochs. This list is called a nulliﬁer map. The routing
peer checks every new message against this list to spot spam
messages. This list does not have to capture the entire history
because any incoming message whose epoch is older than the
last Thr epochs is discarded by default (as explained in item
1 of section III-F). The routing peer utilizes this list to locally
identify spam messages and spammers as follows.
1) The routing peer ﬁrst veriﬁes the π and discards the
message if not veriﬁed.
2) It checks for the presence of another past message with
an identical internal nulliﬁer i.e., φ. If nothing is found,
then the message gets relayed, otherwise:
a) If the identity share i.e., (x′,y ′) of the older message
is different from the incoming message share i.e.,
(x,y )⁄= (x′,y ′), then slashing takes place
b) If (x,y ) = (x′,y ′), then the message is a duplicate and
should be discarded.
Race condition: There is a possibility of a race condition
when slashing an identiﬁed spammer. The race happens when
a peer submits the identiﬁed identity key of the spammer to
the contract in plain format and at the same time, another
peer observes and copies the same information to reclaim
the spammer’s fund. This yields a race issue. To avoid this,
the commit and reveal technique can be utilized, i.e., the
routing peer sends a commitment to the spammer’s identity
key (instead of the plain identity key) to the contract so
that no one else can replicate and reclaim it. Later it opens
the commitment and reveals its knowledge of the spammer’s
identity key.
Maximum Epoch Gap: As mentioned earlier, the gap
between the epoch observed by the routing peer and the

Figure 3. Overview of message publishing, routing and slashing.
one attached to the incoming message should not exceed a
threshold denoted by Thr . Thr can be measured based on
1) the network transmission delay which is the maximum
time that it takes for a message to be fully disseminated
in the network 2) the clock asynchrony i.e., the maximum
difference between the Unix epoch time perceived by the
network peers which can be due to clock drifts. With a
reasonable approximation of the preceding values, one can
set Thr =⌈ N etworkDelay+ClockAsynchrony
T ⌉ where T is the
length of the epoch in seconds (the NetworkDelay and
ClockAsynchrony are also in seconds). By this formulation,
Thr measures the maximum number of epochs that can elapse
since a message gets routed from its origin to all the other
peers in the network.
IV. S ECURITY AND PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS
Security: W AKU-RLN-RELAY achieves global spam pro-
tection while preserving user anonymity, namely 1) Peers
do not have to disclose any piece of personally identiﬁable
information in any phase i.e., neither in the registration nor
the messaging phase 2) Peers can prove that they have not
exceeded the messaging rate in a zero-knowledge manner and
without leaving any trace to their identity public keys. Our
solution also protects network resources against spammers
as the spam messages are dropped immediately and not
propagated. Malicious participants that may attempt to send
messages with invalid proofs to exhaust the resources of the
network will also fail because the effect of their attack is 1)
limited to their direct connections and will not impact the
entire network, since such messages are not relayed further
due to invalid proof 2) is easily addressable by leveraging
peer scoring mechanism [2]. Sybil attack is also mitigated
by making registration expensive. Economic incentives are
guaranteed cryptographically via secret sharing.
Performance: The proof of concept implementation as well
as speciﬁcations of W AKU-RLN-RELAY are available in [16]
and [1], respectively. We utilize RLN library [17] for our
implementation. Generating membership proof to a group size
of 232≈ 4 billion peers takes ≈ 0.5s on an iPhone 8 [17].
Proof veriﬁcation run time is constant and takes≈ 30ms. Each
peer persists a 32B public and secret keys and a prover key
with≈ 3.89MB in size [17]. Storage of a membership tree
with depth 20 takes up 67MB from each peer (this can be
optimized to 0.128KB using the proposal of [18]).

A. Future Work
W AKU-RLN-RELAY is currently a Proof of Concept
(POC), and its design and development are in progress. Below,
we shed light on some of our future work.
Evaluating Merkle tree computation overhead: We
would like to evaluate the running time associated with the
Merkle tree operations. Indeed, the need to locally store
Merkle tree on each peer was one of the unknowns discovered
during this POC and yet the concrete benchmarking result in
this regard is not available.
Enhancing performance by off-chain solutions: Another
possible improvement is to replace the membership contract
with a distributed group management scheme e.g., through
distributed hash tables. This is to address possible performance
issues that the interaction with the public Ethereum blockchain
may cause. For example, the registration transactions are
subject to delay as they have to be mined before being visible
in the state of the membership contract. This means peers
have to wait for some time before being able to publish
any message. The same issue exists for slashing and other
smart contract-related functions. The use of state channels
and optimistic Rollups are other ways to overcome transaction
delays and achieve better performance.
Lowering the storage overhead per peer : Currently,
peers need to maintain the entire tree locally which incurs
a storage overhead linear in the size of the group. This
overhead can be tackled using a hybrid architecture where
peers with adequate storage capacity retain the tree and supply
the necessary information to the resource-limited peers upon
request. Alternatively, the storage efﬁcient method of [18] can
be utilized where peers maintain a partial view of the tree yet
can construct and update the tree root and their authentication
paths based on the group updates. Keeping the partial view
lowers the storage complexity to O(log(N )) where N is the
size of the group. In this solution, the authentication path of
the slashed keys can become available assuming that peers,
at the registration time, 1) provide their authenticated path
encrypted under their secret identity key and 2) prove the
former in a zero-knowledge manner. The use of Verkle tree
[19] or polynomial commitments [20] are other paths to follow.
Cost-effective member insertion and deletion: Depending
on Ethereum gas costs, the cost associated with membership is
40k gas which translates to more than 20 USD (at the time of
writing of this paper). We aim at ﬁnding a more cost-effective
approach. For example, by using batch insertion and deletion,
the cost can be reduced to 20k gas. Alternatively, layer two
solutions or more cost-efﬁcient blockchains with support for
smart contracts can be utilized.
B. Open Problems
Below is the list of open problems for which no immediate
solution is known hence demanding more long-term research.
Exceeding the messaging rate via multiple registrations :
While the economic-incentive solution has an economic in-
centive to discourage spamming, there is still the possibility
of expensive attack(s) for exceeding the messaging rate. An
attacker pays for multiple e.g., k registrations, and uses its
aggregate quota for messaging i.e., k messages per epoch.
Such attacks can be mitigated by increasing the entry barrier
via a higher membership fee. Following this argument, the
high fee associated with the membership, which is discussed
in section IV-A, can indeed be beneﬁcial for spam prevention.
Escaping punishment by early withdrawal : A spammer can
escape from getting slashed by withdrawing its fund from the
contract before its spam activity gets caught. While this means
the attacker burns its initial membership fund (the fee paid to
register its key to the group), it allows saving the other part
of the fund that can be otherwise rewarded to slashers.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
We acknowledge Corey Petty 2 for his valuable comments
on the paper.
REFERENCES
[1] “Speciﬁcations of waku protocols stack,” https://rfc.vac.dev/, accessed:
2022-03.
[2] D. Vyzovitis, Y . Napora, D. McCormick, D. Dias, and Y . Psaras,
“Gossipsub: Attack-resilient message propagation in the ﬁlecoin and
eth2. 0 networks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.02754 , 2020.
[3] N. Unger, S. Dechand, J. Bonneau, S. Fahl, H. Perl, I. Goldberg,
and M. Smith, “Sok: secure messaging,” in 2015 IEEE Symposium on
Security and Privacy . IEEE, 2015, pp. 232–249.
[4] C. Dwork and M. Naor, “Pricing via processing or combatting junk
mail,” in Annual international cryptology conference . Springer, 1992,
pp. 139–147.
[5] “Whisper speciﬁcations,” https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-627, ac-
cessed: 2022-03.
[6] K. Gurkan, K. W. Jie, and B. Whitehat, “Community proposal:
Semaphore: Zero-knowledge signaling on ethereum,” 2020. [Online].
Available: https://github.com/appliedzkp/semaphore/blob/master/spec/
\Semaphore%20Spec.pdf
[7] https://semaphore.appliedzkp.org/, accessed: 2022-03.
[8] A. Shamir, “How to share a secret,” Communications of the ACM ,
vol. 22, no. 11, pp. 612–613, 1979.
[9] “Rln original proposal,” https://ethresear.ch/t/
semaphore-rln-rate-limiting-nulliﬁer-for-spam-prevention-in-anonymous-p2p-setting/
5009, accessed: 2022-03.
[10] R. C. Merkle, “A digital signature based on a conventional encryption
function,” in Conference on the theory and application of cryptographic
techniques. Springer, 1987, pp. 369–378.
[11] J. Groth, “On the size of pairing-based non-interactive arguments,”
in Annual international conference on the theory and applications of
cryptographic techniques. Springer, 2016, pp. 305–326.
[12] S. Bowe, A. Gabizon, and I. Miers, “Scalable multi-party computation
for zk-snark parameters in the random beacon model,”Cryptology ePrint
Archive, 2017.
[13] “https://medium.com/coinmonks/announcing-the-perpetual-powers-of-
tau-ceremony-to-beneﬁt-all-zk-snark-projects-c3da86af8377.”
[14] “Implementation of multi-party computation (mpc) ceremony for
zk-snark parameters,” https://github.com/kobigurk/phase2-bn254/tree/
master/powersoftau, accessed: 2022-03.
[15] “First phase of a multi-party trusted setup ceremony based
on zcash powers of tau ceremony,” https://github.com/weijiekoh/
perpetualpowersoftau, accessed: 2022-03.
[16] “Reference implementation of waku in nim,” https://github.com/
status-im/nim-waku, accessed: 2022-03.
[17] “Rln library implemented in rust,” https://github.com/kilic/rln, accessed:
2022-03.
[18] “Storage efﬁcient merkle tree update,” https://github.com/vacp2p/
research/blob/master/rln-research/merkle-tree-update.md, accessed:
2022-03.
[19] J. Kuszmaul, “Verkle trees,” Verkle Trees, pp. 1–12, 2019.
2Corey@status.im

[20] A. Kate, G. M. Zaverucha, and I. Goldberg, “Polynomial commitments,”
Tech. Rep, 2010.