Stealthy Peers: Understanding Security Risks of WebRTC-Based Peer-Assisted
Video Streaming
Siyuan Tang
Indiana University Bloomington
tangsi@iu.edu
Eihal Alowaisheq
King Saud University
ealowaisheq@ksu.edu.sa
Xianghang Mi §
University of Science and Technology of China
xmi@ustc.edu.cn
Yi Chen
Indiana University Bloomington
chen481@iu.edu
XiaoFeng Wang
Indiana University Bloomington
xw7@indiana.edu
Yanzhi Dou
Independent researcher
aaron.yzdou@gmail.com
Abstract—As an emerging service for in-browser content deliv-
ery, peer-assisted delivery network (PDN) is reported to offload
up to 95% of bandwidth consumption for video streaming,
significantly reducing the cost incurred by traditional CDN
services. With such benefits, PDN services significantly impact
today’s video streaming and content delivery model. However,
their security implications have never been investigated. In this
paper, we report the first effort to address this issue, which is
made possible by a suite of methodologies, e.g., an automatic
pipeline to discover PDN services and their customers, and a
PDN analysis framework to test the potential security and
privacy risks of these services. Our study has led to the
discovery of 3 representative PDN providers, along with 134
websites and 38 mobile apps as their customers. Most of these
PDN customers are prominent video streaming services with
millions of monthly visits or app downloads (from Google
Play). Also found in our study are another 9 top video/live
streaming websites with each equipped with a proprietary
PDN solution. Most importantly, our analysis on these PDN
services has brought to light a series of security risks, which
have never been reported before, including free riding of the
public PDN services, video segment pollution, exposure of video
viewers’ IPs to other peers, and resource squatting. All such
risks have been studied through controlled experiments and
measurements, under the guidance of our institution’s IRB.
We have responsibly disclosed these security risks to relevant
PDN providers, who have acknowledged our findings, and also
discussed the avenues to mitigate these risks.
1. Introduction
With the ever-expanding footprint of video streaming
in Internet traffic (projected to reach 82% in 2022 [17]),
the techniques and infrastructures for effective and efficient
delivery of video content become increasingly important.
Past decades have witnessed the incessant growth of content
delivery networks (CDNs) for distributing and caching web
§. Corresponding author
content across different geolocations, which however is con-
sidered to be rather expensive for video streaming. Further,
CDNs today have been constrained by their deployment that
may not be adequate for serving video-on-demand (VOD)
or live-streaming users around the world, given that even
the largest CDN provider has only 325K servers located
in 1.4K networks by April 2021 [18]. An answer to these
challenges is the emergence of Peer-assisted Delivery Net-
work (PDN) that utilizes a Peer-to-Peer (P2P) protocol (i.e.,
WebRTC [14]) to facilitate video transmission among web
browsers. This alternative is considered to be more scalable
and cost-effective: for example, Peer5, one of the most
popular PDN services, claims to be able to offload 95%
bandwidth cost for its customers [30]. PDNs can be easily
integrated into today’s video streaming infrastructures: a
video streaming website simply needs to subscribe to a PDN
service and embed the respective PDN Javascript SDK into
its video streaming web pages or apps. Then, an ad hoc
P2P network among their viewers will be built up, with all
coordination and management tasks handled by the PDN
provider behind the scene. On the other hand, given known
weaknesses of other P2P networks [39], [48], [58], [74], this
new content delivery model may have serious security and
privacy implications, which however have never been fully
understood. Specifically, one may ask whether user consent
are clearly and freely communicated when involving video
viewers into a PDN network, whether and to what extent
a PDN peer’s video streaming activities will be exposed
to unknown or even malicious parties, whether serving
as a PDN peer will incur non-negligible computing and
bandwidth overhead, and whether video segments relayed
by untrustworthy PDN peers have been properly protected.
Challenges and solutions . Answering these questions re-
quires an in-depth analysis of existing PDN services, which
turns out to have multiple challenges. First, PDN providers
tend to hide their technical mechanisms with few or no
publicly available technical documents as well as heavily
obfuscated client-side PDN libraries, making it challenging
to understand and evaluate existing PDN systems. Second,

PDN services take a hybrid model of combing normal CDN
traffic with P2P traffic, and most PDN activities are mixed
with heterogeneous in-browser web activities, rendering
them stealthy and hard to detect. Making it more compli-
cated is that PDN services are dynamically loaded when
visiting a video website or app, and a PDN customer may set
various preconditions before loading the PDN services, e.g.,
the PDN traffic of Douyu TV (a live streaming platform) is
only observable through IP addresses located in China.
Despite these challenges, we performed the first system-
atic study on PDN’s security implications. Our study started
by collecting publicly available PDN providers and their
customers (e.g., video streaming websites). More specifi-
cally, our study focuses on 3 representative PDN providers
which were found to be most popular in terms of their
daily DNS query volume as learned from passive DNS [21].
Then we identified signatures for fingerprinting PDN SDKs
(JavaScript and Android) and moved to build up a signature-
based PDN customer detector. Our detector leads to the
discovery of 134 websites and 38 Android apps, along with
another 9 popular video streaming websites integrated with
proprietary PDN solutions ( private PDN services ). Regard-
ing the popularity of PDN customers, 92 (69%) websites
were found to have over 1 million monthly visits, e.g., RT
News (rt.com) and Clarin (clarin.com), while 25 (66%) apps
have over 1 million downloads on Google Play, e.g., ZEE5
TV ( com.graymatrix.did) and iFlix ( iflix.play). Upon those
PDN services and customers, we conducted a comprehen-
sive analysis in an attempt to identify fundamental security
risks and privacy concerns. This has been made possible by
a PDN analyzer we built up to automatically run predefined
security tests given a PDN service.
Security discoveries . Our study on PDN services has
brought to light significant security implications of these
services, which have never been reported before. Partic-
ularly, we found that public PDN services are seriously
vulnerable, due to not only misconfiguration on the side
of the PDN customer, but also insufficient protection by the
PDN provider. More specifically, all public PDN services
we discovered are meant to identify the peers of a customer
using a static API key directly embedded in the customer’s
website. As a result, the attacker could easily retrieve the key
to free-ride the PDN service, which increases the cost of the
PDN customers. Although PDN providers utilize a domain
whitelist to prevent the API key abuse, our experiments
found that an attacker can still bypass the protection through
a custom client. Even worse, many PDN customers do not
even enable the whitelisting protection for the convenience
of sharing API keys across multiple domains. Among the 40
API keys we extracted from the detected PDN customers,
11 disabled the domain whitelisting protection.
Another security-critical weakness we identified is video
segment pollution: a malicious peer could alter any video
segment it receives and forward it to other benign peers
without being noticed. Although content pollution is a
known threat in traditional P2P networks, previous at-
tacks [39], [53], [54] rely on understanding of P2P protocols
and access to local storage, which are not applicable to
PDN scenarios since PDN services utilize customized data
protocols and store the downloaded data in the cache under
the protection of browsers. In our research, we proposed
a novel attack wherein the attacker can pollute arbitrary
video segments without knowledge of P2P protocols or
access to local storage. Our evaluation results demonstrate
the feasibility of the attack over all public PDN providers
and a demo [1] is published online: https://sites.google.c
om/view/pdnsec/home/demo.
Also discovered are extensive peer IP leaks in PDN
services: a PDN service automatically connects each peer
to available viewers to establish P2P connections. Previous
works [32], [47] have reported the exposure of real IPs
to websites through WebRTC, which could be abused for
web tracking. In our research, we discovered a different yet
more serious IP leak caused by the PDN service, exposing
viewers’ IPs to untrusted peers. Our case studies show that
two popular websites and apps, i.e., Huya TV and RT news,
exposed respectively 7,055 and 685 viewers’ IPs to a peer
we deployed to watch a single live streaming channel 2
hours per day for just one week. Our experiments further
indicate that all existing PDN services, both public and
private ones, do not have sufficient protection in place to
restrain viewers’ IP exposure.
Furthermore, we found that PDN services consume
peers’ computing and bandwidth resources without consent.
Among the PDN services we detected, no matter public
or private, none asks for viewers’ permission and viewers
have no option to disable the PDN service. We further
measured peers’ resource consumption and found that a
PDN service generally incur 15% more CPU and 10%
more memory usage. Also, our experiments show that the
upload traffic of peers increases significantly (up to 200%
of the download traffic with 3 peers) as the number of
peers grows, while their download traffic does not go up
accordingly. Our further analysis on Peer5 customers re-
veals that 3 highly popular apps (i.e., com.bongo.bioscope,
com.portonics.mygp, com.arenacloudtv.android) even allow
the PDN service to use viewers’ cellular data for both
uploading and downloading, which may incur extra financial
cost to viewers.
Mitigation. To mitigate the security risks discovered, we
discuss the limitations of known defense mechanisms and
present several protection suggestions along with a fea-
sibility evaluation under a simulated environment. More
specifically, for the service free riding risk, we propose an
authentication mechanism that utilizes a video-binding and
disposable token, which can effectively demotivate unau-
thorized use of the PDN service purchased by others. To
address the video segment pollution threat, we propose a
peer-assisted defense mechanism wherein the PDN server
randomly selects a subset of peers to report and verify
the integrity metadata (IM) for each video segment. This
protection raises the bar for a content pollution attack, which
will only succeed when all randomly selected peers are
malicious. We also discuss the countermeasures for the peer
2

IP leak risk through limiting the candidate peers by the
geolocation, ISP, etc., or deploying TURN servers to relay
peer-to-peer traffic.
Contributions. The contributions of the paper are outlined
as follows:
• A large-scale characterization on real-world PDN par-
ticipants. Our research reveals the technical mechanisms
of PDN services as well as their prevalence through an
automatic detection framework, leading to the discovery of
134 websites, 38 Android apps and 9 private PDN services.
• The first study on PDN security . We report the first com-
prehensive study on PDN security based upon a novel PDN
analysis framework. Our study leads to a new understanding
of the security implications of today’s PDN ecosystem, in-
cluding its weaknesses in protecting PDN customers (service
free riding, video segment pollution ) and viewers ( peer IP
leak, resource squatting).
2. Background
Peer-assisted video streaming. Due to the significant bene-
fit of traffic savings, peer-assisted video streaming has been
adopted by numerous commercial CDNs including Xunlei
Kankan [75], LiveSky [73], Spotify [45], and Akamai [77].
These P2P-CDNs generally require end users to install
client-side software and design ad hoc protocols for peer-to-
peer communication. It is also a key challenge to integrate
P2P with existing CDN services [73]. As previous P2P-
CDNs discontinued for various reasons [16], PDN services
based on WebRTC emerge as the next-generation peer-
assisted video streaming network, which provides a more
convenient SDK and better security mechanisms. These
PDN services are also embedded into web players [6] and
enterprise content delivery (eCDN) [8] for wide deployment.
Regarding network structures, peer-assisted networks can be
classified into two types: tree-based and mesh-based [44].
Literally, tree-based networks organize peers in a struc-
ture of multiple trees, selecting some peers as root nodes
and others as leaf nodes. In a mesh-based network, peers
dynamically connect to a subset of random peers based
on attributes such as content/network availability. In our
research, PDN takes the mesh-based network.
Video streaming protocols . A video streaming protocol
specifies how media data is delivered over the Internet. Early
examples of such a protocol include Real Time Streaming
Protocol (RTSP) [68] and Real Time Messaging Protocol
(RTMP) [63]. However, these protocols are either propri-
etary or do not support video streaming through HTTP.
Thus, in the past decade, a set of HTTP-based adaptive
bit-rate protocols have emerged and gained popularity, par-
ticularly HTTP Live Streaming (HLS) [5] and Dynamic
Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (MPEG-DASH) [70]. These
protocols break a video into smaller segments that can
be downloaded through HTTP. Such segments are made
available at different bitrates, so as to allow the video client
to adapt the video streaming to various network condi-
tions. A manifest file is also created to trace these video
segments. Among these protocols, WebRTC and Secure
Reliable Transport [11] (SRT) are characterized by new
features such as lower latency, security, P2P support, etc.
WebRTC. As mentioned earlier, PDN services today are
built on top of Web Real-Time Communication, also known
as WebRTC. WebRTC allows web browsers to communicate
directly in a P2P manner. It has been supported by most
modern browsers, including Mozilla Firefox 22+, Google
Chrome 28+, Safari 11+, Opera 18, and Microsoft Edge
12+. It becomes a primary choice for streaming services
that utilize P2P communication between their viewers to
lower bandwidth consumption and reduce their CDN traffic
cost. WebRTC is free and open-source and can be easily
deployed using regular JavaScript APIs. It is by default
built into browsers, allowing the users of the streaming
service to receive its P2P support without installing any
additional software. WebRTC has two main components: the
signaling component and the data channel component . The
former manages the communication between the application
(e.g., the website) and the peer (e.g., the browser). This
component acts as a medium to gather communication infor-
mation between peers. The latter controls the transmission
of the data between the connected peers. To establish a
P2P connection between endpoints (e.g., web browsers), a
specified signaling server exchanges the meta-data required
for the two parties to communicate with each other. More
specifically, an endpoint connects to the signaling server,
typically through HTTPS, and then generates the required
meta-data in two categories: 1) media preference, 2) network
information. The media preferences are set using Session
Description Protocol (SDP) [50], which specifies a variety
of media options, such as media type. Also set is Interac-
tive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) [52] candidates with
network information, like the public IP address essential
in establishing the P2P connection between two parties.
In order to obtain the IP, a Network Address Translation
(NAT) traversal server such as STUN or TURN is used. The
SDP and ICE candidates are then relayed to the endpoint
through the signaling server, typically using the WebSocket
protocol [43]. Once the information is accepted, the P2P
connection between the endpoints is established.
3. Understanding the PDN Ecosystem
In this section, we present our understandings of the
PDN ecosystem. We first introduce a typical PDN scenario
and its key players, i.e., PDN providers, PDN customers, and
peers (§3.1). Then we describe our profiling of a set of rep-
resentative PDN providers’ service models and operations
(§3.2). Such profiling enables us to develop techniques for
detecting PDN customers (both websites and mobile apps)
at a large scale (as reported in §3.3).
3.1. The Ecosystem
Generally, the PDN ecosystem consists of three key
players, i.e., PDN providers, PDN customers, and peers.
3

Figure 1: Traffic flows of a typical PDN scenario.
Among these players, PDN providers offer the PDN service
and the integration SDK, PDN customers refer to video
streaming services and their apps or websites that subscribe
to the PDN service, and peers denote the video viewers of
these video websites or apps. Figure 1 illustrates a typical
traffic workflow in the PDN ecosystem. As claimed by
PDN providers, a PDN combines the traditional CDN with
WebRTC-based P2P network and offloads a large amount
video traffic to P2P connections by integrating a JavaScript
API into a video website. Specifically, in the traditional
CDN mode, when a viewer (e.g., Peer A) opens a video
website 1 , it sends an HTTP request to the CDN which
stores the specified video files 2 and downloads the video
files before playing it with a video player 3 . If the PDN
service is enabled, the Javascript API embedded in the video
website will automatically initiate a WebRTC interface and
connect to the PDN server 4 . After the process of Internet
Connectivity Establishment (ICE) between peers and the
PDN server 5 , Peer A shares the meta data of video files
and its network information (e.g., IP and port) with other
peers (e.g., Peer B). Then Peer B can request video segments
from Peer A instead of the CDN network 6 .
PDN distinguishes from previous P2P-CDN services in
two aspects: First, due to the wide support of WebRTC
in modern browsers, PDN services do not require any
dedicated client-side software and can be activated through
loading a JavaScript SDK within a web browser. Moreover,
PDN services are compatible with existing video streaming
protocols and CDN services. However, such features make
the PDN services almost unnoticeable to viewers and sig-
nificantly increase the difficulties of detecting the existence
of PDN services.
3.2. PDN Providers
Our research first identified popular PDN providers and
subscribed to their services to gain an inside view of their
operation and business. Then we estimated their popularity
using passive DNS.
Identifying PDN providers . To find PDN services, we
first queried Google Search with PDN-related keywords
like “P2P live streaming” and “P2P CDN”, and manually
checked the search results. The providers identified were
further verified by contacting them in the name of video
streaming services to get their service details. In this way,
we confirmed three popular PDN providers: Peer5 [24],
Streamroot [20], and Viblast [29]. We further signed up as
a customer of the verified PDN services so as to access
their documentation, client-side SDKs as well as customer
portals, which enabled us to gain insights into how these
services work. Based on the new insights, we constructed a
set of robust PDN signatures to help identify potential PDN
customers, and manually verified them to understand their
effectiveness (§3.3). Subscription to the services also allows
us to enable the PDNs on our experimental video streaming
website, through which we captured PDN traffic to study
the PDN protocols and workflows (Figure 1).
Service model and pricing policy . All the PDN providers
identified in our research claim that their services can offload
at least 50% traffic from existing video streaming infras-
tructures to PDN peers [20], [24], [29], and will become
more efficient when the traditional server infrastructures are
weighed down by traffic peaks. We observed that these
services have different pricing policies for their customers,
based upon PDN traffic volume, concurrent video viewing
hours, the number of concurrent viewers, etc. Table 1 sum-
marize the characteristics of the PDN providers. And we
can see, most providers have cross-platform SDK support
covering desktop web browsers (Web), mobile devices, and
over-the-top (OTT) devices. Also, customers are charged
according to either the concurrent viewer hours or the traffic
volume offloaded to PDN peers. Specifically, Peer5 will
charge a customer $500 for offloading 50TB video traffic
from the original video server. Differently, Viblast will
charge customers at a rate of $0.01 for the first 10,000
concurrent viewer hours.
Popularity estimation . We then move to profile the pop-
ularity of these PDN services, i.e., to what extent they are
adopted in real-world video streaming activities, which is
non-trivial without access to PDN operations. Through the
aforementioned PDN traffic analysis, we observed that each
PDN provider provided its peers with a backend server
uniquely identified by a domain name, e.g., ws.peer5.com
for Peer5. And the traffic volume towards the backend server
can serve as a lower-bound approximation for measuring
a PDN service’s popularity. We thus estimated their traffic
volumes by consulting a passive DNS service ( pDNS) (i.e.,
Farsight Security [21]) for their backend server. Table 2
presents the average daily estimate of the number of DNS
resolutions to the three PDN providers’ backend domains in
the recent 4 years. From the table, we can see that Peer5 and
Streamroot are the most popular PDN providers, and each
receives over 20K pDNS requests per day. In the recent 4
years, peer traffic volume has seen a sudden decrease in
2019 and then a stable growth since then except for Peer5,
possibly due to the fact that it was acquired by Microsoft
in 2021 [9].
4

TABLE 1: Popular PDN providers
Provider Supported Platforms Pricing Standard Pricing
Peer5 Android,iOS,Web,OTT monthly p2p traffic $500 for 50TB
Streamroot Android,iOS,Web,OTT monthly p2p traffic unclear
Viblast Android,iOS,Web concurrent viewer hour (CVH) $0.01 per CVH
TABLE 2: pDNS resolutions of popular PDN providers
Provider Backend server Average daily resolutions
2018 2019 2020 2021
Peer5 ws.peer5.com 48,124.33 24,795.05 31,575.55 22,152.62
Streamroot backend.dna-delivery.com 32,823.76 24,968.69 34,215.89 36,805.73
Viblast cs.viblast.com 231.43 24.04 50.28 390.56
3.3. PDN Customers
In our research, we proposed a novel framework to de-
tect PDN customers at a large scale, including the websites
and Android apps. Specifically, we first identified websites
and Android apps integrated with PDN services, which we
call PDN customers, using a signature-based approach. Then
we analyze the popularity of these PDN customers.
Challenges of detecting PDN customers . Intuitively, a
straightforward method to determine whether a website or
Android app enables the PDN service is to utilize the unique
pattern of the peer-to-peer traffic (e.g., STUN requests,
DTLS traffic between peers, etc.). However, this method
turns out to be challenging and costly. As mentioned earlier,
a PDN service can only be triggered when enough clients
are watching the same video simultaneously. Also, due
to the dynamic feature of JavaScript, PDN services will
be loaded dynamically. For example, severestudio.com will
load the PDN service only when there is an active streaming
source on the page. These conditions render PDN activities
less observable during dynamic analysis. Therefore, simple
static signature-based detection becomes a better alternative,
though this approach may still miss many cases, particularly,
when the JavaScript code containing PDN signatures is
heavily obfuscated or is loaded under specific conditions
at runtime. So our current approach is conservative, only
identifying a subset of PDN customers.
Detecting PDN customers . Through an analysis on
PDN services (§3.2), we collected a set of robust sig-
natures to fingerprint their customers, which were ex-
tracted from their documentation and source code (js files
or mobile SDK). These signatures consist of URL pat-
terns (e.g., api.peer5.com/peer5.js?id=*), unique names-
paces (e.g., com.viblast.android), and meta-data in the An-
droid manifest file (e.g. io.streamroot.dna.StreamrootKey).
All identified signatures are presented in Table 5 in the
Appendix. Leveraging these identified signatures, we built
up a scanner to crawl high-profile websites, in an attempt
to find potential PDN customers.
Since PDN mainly serves video streaming platforms,
we only considered the popular video-related websites and
Android apps in our research. Specifically, we first queried
the top 300K domains according to Tranco Top Sites Rank-
ing [64], which turns out to be more stable and secure than
other ranking lists such as Alexa. Then we collected the
TABLE 3: Detected PDN customers
PDN Provider # Websites # Apps # APKs
Peer5 60 31 548
Streamroot 53 6 68
Viblast 21 1 11
Total 134 38 627
category information of these top domains as provided by
the 5 category engines in VirusTotal, i.e., Forcepoint Threat-
Seeker, Sophos, BitDefender, Comodo Valkyrie Verdict, and
alphaMountain.ai. For each domain, if any of the 5 engines
returns a category label containing keywords such as ”tv”
or ”media”, we consider it a video-related domain. In this
way, we found 68,713 top video-related domains through
this category filtering. Also, we queried source code search
engines NerdyData [23] and PublicWWW [25] using PDN
signatures as keywords, which reported 44 potential PDN-
enabled websites. Altogether we gathered 68,757 domains
for our PDN detector.
We then performed a signature-based scan between Jan
2022 and Feb 2022 using Selenium [12], a framework for
automatic web application testing. Our scanner dynamically
crawls the website of a given domain by downloading its
HTML files and all JavaScript files if the site contains
a “video” tag on its web page, and then traverse all the
subpages under the same domain until a PDN signature is
found. To limit the depth of searching, our scanner only
examines the subpages within a depth of 3. To avoid non-
negligible overhead to a website, we limit the crawl rate
to 1 webpage per 3 seconds with a timeout of 10 minutes
for a given domain. If any PDN signature is found in
these subpages, the scanner considers the domain as a PDN
customer.
We also collected popular apps and their APKs from
Androzoo [33], a large repository of Android APKs from
multiple app stores, including Google Play, Anzhi, and
AppChina. By June 2022, it contains 19,661,675 different
Android APKs from 7,954,395 apps. Since Androzoo does
not provide information about the app category or down-
loads, we randomly sampled 1.5M apps among the 8M
apps. Our scanner automatically downloaded the latest APK
version of sampled apps and then unpacked it to search
PDN signatures on Android, as illustrated in Table 5 in the
Appendix. An APK is considered as a PDN customer if it
contains at least one PDN signature. We further checked
all historical APK versions of detected apps to estimate the
scale of different APK versions.
Popularity of PDN customers. Our study has led to the
discovery of 134 websites and 38 apps (with 627 different
APK versions) as PDN customers. As shown in Table 3,
among the services behind these customers, Peer5 is the
most popular one, with 60 websites and 31 Android apps,
followed by Streamroot with 53 websites and 6 Android
apps. The other 21 websites and 1 Andorid app were de-
tected to be integrated with the Viblast PDN SDK. Further-
more, most PDN customers are found to have a large number
5

of viewers. To measure the popularity of PDN customers,
we further queried the monthly visits of PDN websites from
SimilarWeb [28] and the installs of PDN apps from Google
Play. Among the 134 detected websites and 38 apps, we
successfully obtained the data of 105 websites and 35 apps,
and the others are not found in SimilarWeb or Google Play.
From our results, 92 (69%) PDN websites are visited
over 1 million times per month, and 19 of them have
over 10 million monthly visits, including popular websites
www.rt.com, www.clarin.com and www.rtve.es. Among the
38 Android apps, 25 (66%) of them have been downloaded
by over 1 million times and 9 have more than 10 million
downloads, including 1 app ( com.graymatrix.did) with over
100 million downloads, and 1 ( iflix.play) with over 50
million downloads. We list the top detected PDN websites
and apps in Table 6 and Table 7 in the Appendix. Our
measurement indicates that PDN services have been adopted
by many popular customers and have reached millions of
video viewers.
Private PDN services. We also observed that some websites
are embedded with HTML or JavaScript code that shares
similar patterns with ones from PDN services, but they
are not customers of either of the three PDN providers
nonetheless. Unlike known PDN providers, these cases do
not involve third-party API keys or external Javascript APIs,
but associate their own domains (usually their subdomains
or relevant domains) with the involved PDN servers. Thus
we consider them as private PDN services since they are
ad hoc services with each dedicated to a specific video/live
streaming platform.
Specifically, our detector identified 385 websites match-
ing the general WebRTC-related signatures (see Table 5 in
the Appendix). We manually studied the traffic of the top 57
websites that rank in top 10K websites, and confirmed that 9
has integrated proprietary PDN functionalities (i.e., private
PDN services), including 5 popular video streaming plat-
forms, e.g., Youku ( youku.com), Tencent Video ( v.qq.com),
and 4 live streaming platforms, e.g., OK Social Network
(ok.ru), Huya ( huya.com). We list these popular private
PDN services in Table 8 in the Appendix. It is interesting
that such private PDN services are extremely popular in
China, covering most top video hosting and live streaming
platforms. We also noticed that 2 adult video platforms, i.e.
xhamsterlive.com and stripchat.com, utilize WebRTC proto-
cols to relay traffic. For the other 46 cases, we confirmed 3
cases invoking WebRTC APIs for web tracking. Yet for the
most cases, we were unable to determine why they contain
such signatures, since we failed to trigger any WebRTC-
related traffic. Even for those confirmed PDN customers,
it is really hard to trigger the peer-to-peer traffic. Some
websites (e.g., youku.com, tudou.com) have restrictions on
the viewers’ locations due to copyright, and some websites
(e.g., younow.com) require us to register an account to view
the content. All these conditions limit the scale of our
analysis on these private PDN customers. Also, these private
PDN services mainly serve the viewers of their domains
only and are deeply embedded in their HTML code, making
Figure 2: The architecture of the PDN Analyzer
it impossible to integrate these services on our own test
website. Due to these factors and ethical concerns, we do
not evaluate them for the service free riding risk (§4.2) and
the video segment pollution attack (§4.3).
4. Security Risks in PDN
With the in-depth understanding of the PDN ecosystem
(§3), we move forward to reason about and analyze potential
security risks introduced by PDN services to the parties
involved, especially the video viewers and PDN customers.
Our exploration is based upon the observation that PDNs
have a significant impact on the original threat model for
video streaming where video content is directly offered by
trusted parties (e.g., CDN) and distributed through secure
channels (e.g., HTTPS). Following, we first present a PDN
analysis framework and then elaborate on four security risks
discovered in our research and their impacts.
4.1. PDN Analyzer
In order to reliably and effectively test the potential
risks imposed by PDNs, we developed an automatic PDN
analysis framework, as illustrated in Figure 2. At a high
level, our PDN analyzer accepts a PDN service and an
execution plan as the input, which specifies what peers
do and how to do. Then, it runs each PDN peer as a
separate Docker container equipped with a web driver and a
proxy client, which communicates with a configured proxy
server controlled by our PDN analyzer. Once the execution
finishes, our PDN analyzer returns a dumped network traffic
report as well as all execution logs, which can be analyzed to
decide whether the risk under evaluation is triggered. Note
that all the security tests and log analysis are automatically
performed by our PDN analyzer. To simulate the PDN
service in the real world, we integrate PDN services on
our own website (www.test.com) and a customized stream
server connected to a CDN service. Specifically, we rent an
AWS EC2 instance with Wowza Streaming Engine deployed
and set up our own video streaming source. And we utilize
Amazon CloudFront as our CDN service to distribute our
video content.
Threat model. We assume the attacker is able to participate
in the PDN system as a PDN peer, as well as intercept
the TLS traffic from/to the peer under its direct control. To
6

transparently intercept the TLS traffic of the peer under its
control, the attacker can configure the peer with a self-signed
root certificate. Note that we do not require the attacker has
any knowledge of PDN implementations or protocols, nor
does the attacker need to access the local storage, i.e., the
cache of browsers.
Triggering PDN traffic . In the PDN analysis framework,
PDN peers run as separate containers to perform automatic
webpage rendering and video playing. To this end, we
use Selenium WebDriver [12], a standard browser automa-
tion framework, to control a browser (Chrome by default)
through its driver (e.g, ChromeDriver [2] for Chrome, and
geckodriver [4] for Firefox). Specifically, our PDN analyzer
first creates a container with parameters specified in its
execution plan. Inside the container, a browser is then in-
structed, through a Selenium script, to automatically render
a given video streaming URL sourced from the execution
plan. Once the webpage is rendered, the next step is to play
the video embedded in the webpage so PDN traffic can be
triggered. Here a few tricks are deployed to make the video
playing automatic. Specifically, a command-line parameter
of ”–autoplay-policy=no-user-gesture-required”is specified
when starting the Chrome browser, which enables video
autoplay without user interactions. Further, ”autoplay=true”
is appended to the target webpage URL as a parameter,
which is a common practice for instructing a video player
to automatically play a given video [31]. Besides, network
traffic of different containers is mapped to different ports to
avoid interference. Our experiments show that PDN traffic
can be reliably triggered when running multiple PDN peers
through these automatic steps.
Monitoring PDN activities . When running PDN peers as
separate containers, we want to monitor PDN activities in
terms of network traffic and resource consumption (e.g.,
CPU and memory). To monitor the network traffic, tcp-
dump [13] is started to dump incoming and outgoing net-
work traffic on the default virtual network interface docker0,
following the creation of the parent container. Furthermore,
the PDN analyzer utilizes Docker Engine APIs [3] to mon-
itor in real-time the container stats especially the resource
consumption stats such as CPU usage, memory usage, and
network I/O.
Security risks in PDN. We attempted to uncover security
risks in PDN through PDN documentation reading, taking
lessons from previous studies on P2P and peer-assisted video
streaming [34], [44], [77], and preliminary experiments. As
a result, multiple concerning security risks are identified,
i.e., service free riding , video segment pollution , peer IP
leak and resource squatting . More specifically, we found
that a malicious video website or app can free-ride legiti-
mate PDN services ( service free riding ); a malicious peer
is able to pollute video segments of benign peers ( video
segment pollution). For the risk of peer IP leak, we identified
extensive leaks of viewers’ IP addresses. Also, all of the
identified PDN services consume extra viewer resources
(CPU, memory, bandwidth etc.) without consent ( resource
squatting). We even found 3 popular Android apps which
were configured to consume cellular data for both uploading
and downloading traffic in PDN. Following, we detail these
security risks and their security impacts.
Ethical considerations. We carefully designed our method-
ology to minimize any real-world ethical impact. Specifi-
cally, we applied for IRB approval from our institution and
performed all our experiments under the received guidelines.
For experiments requiring PDN access, we gained permis-
sions from PDN providers. Also, these experiments were run
on our own test website integrated with free trials of PDN
services, which would not affect any real-world viewers or
PDN customers. In the peer IP leak test, we only collected
IPs of viewers connecting with our controlled peer. Also,
we focus on measuring the coarse-grained geographical
distribution of PDN peers, and have deleted the raw IP
addresses given the statistical results are extracted.
4.2. Service Free Riding
As discussed in §3.2, public PDN services operate in a
pay-as-you-go model and a PDN customer is charged for
every use under its name. Leveraging our PDN analyzer
and subscriptions to PDN services, we explored whether
the use of a PDN service is well authenticated and whether
a PDN customer can be overcharged for the use incurred by
other parties. It turns out that a persistent access token (API
key) issued by the PDN provider is used to authenticate
PDN customers and PDN peers. Such an access token was
found to be publicly visible to attackers since it is statically
embedded by the PDN customers in either the PDN mobile
app or the video webpages. This allows an attacker (e.g., a
misbehaving video streaming site) to easily steal a legitimate
PDN customer token through either a colluding peer or static
analysis of the respective mobile app if available. It can later
utilize the token to free-ride the PDN service at the cost
of the legitimate customer, or even maliciously consume
P2P traffic between controlled peers to incur extra cost to
the targeted PDN customers. Our evaluation of real-world
customers further confirms the pervasiveness of the service
free riding risk. Following we elaborate on the service free
riding risk and our findings, under the threat model where
an attacker is capable of retrieving the PDN access token
and the domains (origins) from a legitimate PDN customer.
Service free riding . We found that the service free riding
risk is inherent to today’s public PDN services due to the
way they operate. As elaborated in §3.2, a PDN service is
meant to manage the interactions among the viewers of its
customer. Since these viewers are not known to the service
in advance, their association with the customer needs to be
proven to the PDN service. Serving this purpose is the cus-
tomer’s access token, which many services use for authenti-
cating viewers of their customers to the service through the
JavaScript code dispatched to the viewers’ browsers. In the
absence of protection, however, such tokens can be easily
retrieved from a PDN customer’s website or mobile apps
for impersonating legitimate customers and their viewers.
7

We then performed an attack feasibility test within our
PDN analyzer framework. Specifically, we first integrate a
PDN SDK into our own test website (www.test.com) with
the API key extracted from another PDN customer. Then
we run two peer containers and configure the web driver to
watch the same video stream with each peer. We further
analyze the traffic between these containers (peers) and
the PDN server: an initialization request (either accepted
or rejected) from a peer to the PDN server indicates that
the API key is valid, and a successful binding of the peers
provides evidence that the API key can be abused and thus
the service free riding risk exists. During the experiment,
we disabled the auto-play function and ensured that no data
was actually transferred between peers, thus no cost was
generated for customers owning these tokens.
Evaluation of service free riding . In our study, we evalu-
ated how real-world PDN customers protect their PDN sub-
scriptions against the service free riding attack. Among the
PDN customers of 134 websites and 38 apps, we success-
fully extracted out 44 API keys, despite heavy obfuscation
and dynamic loading as enforced by some PDN customers.
Among these API keys, 36 are from Peer5, along with 7
from Viblast and 1 from Streamroot. We tested all of them
and found 40 were valid during our test. Among the 40 valid
API keys, 11 were confirmed to be vulnerable to the service
free riding attack and all of them belong to Peer5. The 11
API keys have been integrated by 18 PDN customers and
4 of them are shared by multiple domains or apps. We also
inspected the default settings of all the three PDN providers.
It turns out that domain whitelisting is disabled by default
for Peer5 and Streamroot, while Viblast requires setting up
the whitelist when enabling the service.
To verify the effectiveness of domain whitelisting pro-
tection, we further evaluated the service free riding attack
with domain whitelisting enabled. We applied for a free
trial from all the 3 PDN providers and succeeded for
Peer5 and Viblast, while Streamroot declined our request.
In our settings, we integrate the PDN service into our
test website (www.test.com) with the trial API key. And
we set a domain whitelist to include a specified domain
(www.example.com).When a viewer visits the victim web-
site (www.example.com), the proxy server redirects the traf-
fic to the target website (www.test.com), which decieves the
viewer client to initiate a legitimate request originating from
the domain (www.example.com) and send it to the PDN
server. We then decide whether peers of our test website can
circumvent the domain whitelisting protection by observing
the response from the PDN server. As a result, both Peer5
and Viblast were found to be vulnerable to such domain
spoofing attack. Although we were unable to test Streamroot
service, it is susceptible to our attack as it also relies on a
static API key and domain whitelisting to authenticate its
customers [26].
4.3. Video Segment Pollution
Different from existing P2P networks (e.g., BitTorrent),
PDN enforces protection mechanisms over both the commu-
TABLE 4: Security risks of PDN services
Security Risks Peer5 Streamroot Viblast Private
Service free riding ✓ – ✓ –
Video segment pollution ✓ – ✓ –
Peer IP leak ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Resource squatting ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
nication channels and the storage. First, PDN utilizes TLS
encryption to protect ICE communication between peers and
the PDN server ( 5 in Figure 1). Also, peers in PDN are
connected via WebRTC, which supports video streaming
protocols over DTLS encryption ( 6 in Figure 1). Second,
PDN caches the downloaded content in the memory of
browsers, which is protected by the same-origin policy and
purged after a short time. Such protections render previous
content pollution attacks ineffective. Thus PDN providers
claim the PDN service is as secure as traditional CDN
services [27]. In our research, however, we proposed a novel
attack to compromise the content integrity in PDN. Our
attack is based on the observation that the PDN server
is unable to verify whether a video file is downloaded
from the original CDN. Although the other channels are
well protected under the assumptions, the attacker can still
download “fake” video segment files and then spread them
to other peers with the help of a malicious peer. Note we
assume that the attacker has access to the original video
files and the corresponding meta files. This is practical with
the help of existing browser plugins such as Live Stream
Downloader [7].
Our attack. Our idea is to run the proxy server in the middle
of a controlled peer and the real CDN. The proxy acts as
a fake CDN to download video files from the real CDN,
automatically replaces the video files before forwarding to
the controlled peer. As illustrated in Figure 3, the proxy
client of the attack peer is configured to redirect the CDN
URL to the proxy server 1 when the attack peer visits a
video website, the video source URL (pointing to the CDN
that stores the target video) is utilized by the proxy 2 to
download the original video files for alteration 3 , and then
store the altered video files to an attached fake CDN 4 .
Then the HTTPS proxy redirects the source URL to the
fake CDN for downloading the altered video 5 . When the
attack peer plays the altered video, it deceives the PDN
server and other peers that the attack peer is watching the
original video content, allowing the attacker to propagate the
video to other victim peers 6 . In our test, if we observe
consistent data communication sending from the attack peer
to other victim peers over the DTLS channel, it means our
attack succeeds and the content integrity is compromised.
As we discussed in §2, video streaming protocols usually
split a large video file into small segments and a manifest
file (e.g., an M3U playlist) is utilized to track these seg-
ments. In the PDN analysis framework, we first run the
naive content pollution test , in which the attacker directly
replaces video segments and the corresponding manifest
file. However, we found PDN services would detect such
8

Malicious 
Peer
Fake CDN
Actual CDN
Victim Peer 1
Victim Peer n
Victim Peer 2
1
2 3
45
6
66
Proxy
Figure 3: Illustration of our attack
simple pollution attack and prevent the malicious peer to
connect with other peers. This is possibly because PDN
servers utilize the manifest file to distinguish video sources
and decide which viewers can serve as peers for a given
video. Therefore, changes in the manifest file will make
a video viewer excluded from peer-to-peer video segment
transmission. To bypass this constraint, we designed the
video segment pollution test , in which the attacker replaces
one or more video segments while keeping the original man-
ifest file unchanged. We detailed our method of generating
polluted video segments in the Appendix 9.2.
Test results . As mentioned in §4.2, we leveraged free-
trial access to Peer5 and Viblast and integrated their PDN
SDKs into our test website. In our settings, we configure the
web driver to open our test website on two different peer
containers and watch the same video content simultaneously
to make sure these two viewers establish a peer-to-peer
connection. As a result,both Peer5 and Viblast failed to pass
our video segment pollution test, which demonstrates that the
attacker could utilize our method to pollute video segments
of a victim PDN customer. We also published a video
demo ( https://sites.google.com/view/pdnsec/home/demo) to
illustrate the video segment pollution attack. From our test
results, we inferred that PDN services probably utilize the
manifest file to verify the integrity of a video stream. How-
ever, it turns out to be vulnerable and can be easily bypassed
through our method. As revealed in a recent study [71],
a content pollution attack in a P2P live streaming system
will quickly propagate to 47% of viewers in the initial
stage even when the initial number of polluters is small.
Considering the popularity of PDN customers, the video
segment pollution attack in PDN can be very destructive
and may impact millions of viewers.
4.4. Peer IP Leak
It has been reported that WebRTC can be abused to cause
unauthorized IP and port leaks [32], [40], [47]. A website or
app can easily exploit the WebRTC API to access viewers’
real public IP addresses and ports through a STUN server,
even if the viewers are hidden behind a VPN. It can be
used by websites or apps for tracking users’ activities [40].
On the PDN service, however, we have observed a different
yet even more serious IP leak risk, which exposes viewers’
Figure 4: Illustration of IP exchange in PDN
real IPs to other peers and thus made it possible for the
attacker to harvest these IPs as a peer. To seek the video
segment from other viewers, a peer automatically requests
from the PDN server a list of candidate IP addresses of those
watching the same video. Then the peer tries to exchange IP
information with all candidate peers to test the connections
and find out the most cost-effective source for downloading
the video. During this process, inevitably one’s IP and port
are disclosed to other video viewers, even though they do
not know each other and would not trust each other.
Figure 4 illustrates the detailed IP exchange process in
the PDN. During the process, a video viewer first sends a
STUN request to a public STUN server 1 which responds
with the viewer’s real public IPs and ports 2 . Following,
it tells the PDN server what video stream it requests 3 ,
and as a response, the PDN server replies with a list of
available candidate peers selected upon the content they are
watching 4 . Then the viewer can send a binding request
to each of the candidate peers 5 which in turn responds
with its IP if the binding request is accepted 6 . The whole
process will be performed every few seconds to check the
liveness of peers. Moreover, we find the binding success
response 6 containing the real public IP address and port
is transmitted in plain text, which further exaggerates the
risk of IP exposure. In the absence of proper protection,
this exposure can be very extensive, not limited to those
geographically close, as demonstrated below.
Peer IP leak in the wild . To measure the extent of peer
IP leaks in PDN, we utilized our PDN analyzer to col-
lect and analyze peer IPs from popular PDN customers.
In our test, we chose two popular PDN customers: RT
News (com.rt.mobile.english), a mobile app integrated with
Streamroot SDK, and Huya TV (huya.com), a website with a
private PDN service. To minimize ethical risks, our tests col-
lected only the IP addresses of PDN peers communicating
with our controlled peer, which were removed immediately
after generating the aggregated statistics. Specifically, we
collected two-hour traffic from a controlled peer in a live
channel for each of the two customers lasting for 7 days.
From the traffic, our PDN analyzer extracted the STUN
9

packets for exchanging IP addresses with our peer (i.e.,
5 and 6 in Figure 4) and recovered the IP addresses
of the candidate viewers trying to establish a peer-to-peer
connection. Altogether, our PDN analyzer gathered 7,740
unique peer IP addresses, including 7,055 from Huya TV
and 685 from RT News. We then further queried IPInfo [22]
for these addresses’ geolocations and other information and
found that 7,159 of these IPs are public IPs, along with
581 as bogons [19]. Among these bogon IPs, 543 are in
private networks, 33 are for NAT [72]), and the other 5
are reserved IPs. These IPs (private, NAT, reserved) were
returned probably due to the errors in the NAT traversal
process, which replied with unreachable IPs to our con-
trolled peer. Also, among the public IPs, 98% are from
Huya TV in China, while IPs from RT News distribute
across 259 cities in 56 countries, with United States (35%),
Britain (17%), and Canada (13%) being the top 3 countries.
The results are consistent with the distribution of viewers
from these two PDN customers. For Peer5 and Viblast, we
performed similar experiments with two controlled viewers
(one located in the US and the other in China) on our test
website and confirmed that two peers were able to collect the
other’s IP even without playing the video. Our experiments
demonstrate that all PDN services expose viewers’ real IPs
to globally distributed audience with few protections, which
suggests a reliable channel for the attacker to harvest active
viewers’ IPs. This potentially enables an attacker to exten-
sively gather peers’ IPs and link them to the content of the
videos being watched. Further, active fingerprinting can be
run on these IPs to identify and target known vulnerabilities.
4.5. Resource Squatting
PDN services utilize video-viewing peers for video seg-
ments encryption/decryption and transmission, which in-
evitably incurs computation and communication burden to
peers. Traditional P2P network usually allows users to limit
the upload speed and provides incentives by awarding coop-
erative peers. In our research, we study how significant the
burden to the peers, as incurred by PDN services, could be,
and whether viewers are well aware of and able to control
such burden.
User consent . A previous study involving large-scale
users [77] reveals that only around 30% of all video viewers
opt-in to participate in P2P video streaming networks. Thus
it is significant to ask for consents when recruiting a video
viewer into PDN, otherwise, it is a compromise of privacy.
To find out whether PDN customers have informed view-
ers of their participation in content delivery, we manually
checked all the PDN customers (including the 134 websites,
38 Android apps, and 9 private cases) detected in our study
and manually inspected their services and public documen-
tations. The results show that none of them provide any
pop-up windows to ask for viewers’ consent or communicate
with their viewers the P2P network they are about to join
through “Terms of Use” or other web content. Therefore,
we believe that their viewers are completely left in the dark
about the price, both in terms of security risks and extra
resource consumption, they are about to pay for the visit
to the streaming sites. Also, none of the PDN providers we
studied allow viewers to turn off the PDN function, and
instead, these PDN services are active as long as viewers
are watching the video content.
Resource squatting. We further estimate the resource con-
sumed for supporting PDN services. In our PDN analyzer,
we run a set of peer containers and configure their web
drivers to open our test website simultaneously. On top of
these containers, the monitor records through Docker Engine
APIs the status of each container per second, including
the CPU usage, memory statics and network I/O. As a
comparison test, we also monitor the overheads when peers
open a website without PDN services.
0 200 400 600
time (seconds)
0
10
20
30
40Average CPU percentage
CPU Consumption
no peer
Peer A
Peer B
0 200 400 600
time (seconds)
400
600
800Memory(Mb)
MEM Consumption
no peer
Peer A
Peer B
0 200 400 600
time (seconds)
0
100
200
300Network Download(Mb)
NET_RECV Consumption
no peer
Peer A
Peer B
0 200 400 600
time (seconds)
0
50
100
150Network Upload(Mb)
NET_SENT Consumption
no peer
Peer A
Peer B
Figure 5: Resource consumption of PDN service
Figure 5 shows our test results on the Peer5 PDN service,
including the CPU and memory usage and download/upload
bytes measured under two peers, Peer A and Peer B, together
with no peer , which means viewers directly requested the
video from CDN. As we can see, the utilization of the Peer5
PDN service incurs non-negligible overhead for both peers,
at a cost of an additional 15% CPU and 10% memory. This
is mainly caused during the process of data encryption and
decryption to transmit the video segments. Also, Peer A
uploads much more data to Peer B than it downloads from
it, indicating Peer A as a seeder.
0 200 400 600
time (seconds)
0
50
100
150Network Download(Mb)
NET_RECV Consumption
0 peer
1 peer
2 peers
3 peers
0 200 400 600
time (seconds)
0
100
200
300Network Upload(Mb)
NET_SENT Consumption
0 peer
1 peers
2 peers
3 peers
Figure 6: Network consumption of Peer A with multiple
peers
We also measured the resource consumption of Peer A
with the existence of multiple peers. When adding more
10

peers up to 3 peers (other than Peer A), we found that the
CPU, memory, and download traffic do not have significant
differences, mainly due to the scalability of WebRTC pro-
tocols. However, the upload traffic increases significantly
(up to 200% of the download traffic with 3 peers) as the
number of peers grows, as shown in Figure 6. Our tests on
the Viblast PDN service also present similar results. Such
results indicate PDN services consume a large amount of
uploading bandwidth as the number of peers grows, which
is consistent with previous works [35].
Settings of Peer5 customers We further analyzed how real-
world streaming websites configure the PDN service running
in their viewers’ browsers. This has been made possible by
our discovery that Peer5 includes in its JavaScript code an
unprotected variable specifying the configurations set by its
customers (video streaming websites). Listing 1 is an ex-
ample of the default settings of Peer5. Here the deployment
parameter means the percentage of viewers to enable PDN,
mobile means whether to enable mobile traffic for PDN,
and cellular represents the mode to use cellular data. For
the cellular mode, leech mode means cellular data is only
used for downloading, full mode allows for both uploading
and downloading, while disable mode does not consume any
cellular data.
Listing 1: Default configuration of Peer5
var p5_flags = {
"deployment":100,"page":"",
"mobile":"enable","cellular":"leech"
};
We analyzed the configurations of 36 Peer5 API keys
extracted from 47 PDN customers detected by our scanner
(§3.3). Our study found that among the 47 Peer5 customers,
33 customers enable PDN for all the viewers, and 14
customers disable PDN by setting the deployment param-
eter to ‘0’. Among the 33 customers with PDN enabled,
we identified 3 Android apps (i.e., com.bingo.bioscope,
com.portonics.mygp, com.arenacloudtv.android) allow the
use of cellular data for both uploading and downloading,
and the other 30 are in leech mode, i.e., consuming cellular
data for downloading only. As shown from our resource
consumption tests, such settings may increase traffic con-
sumption for their viewers and generate extra costs. Our
measurement shows that some PDN customers consume
peers’ cellular data for uploading data, and 3 popular An-
droid apps (with over 15 million Google Play downloads
in total) are under such configuration, which may generate
extra cellular data cost to their viewers.
5. Risk Mitigation Suggestions
In this section, we provide several suggestions for miti-
gating the risks of service free riding (§5.1), video segment
pollution (§5.2), and peer IP leak (§5.3).
5.1. Mitigating Service Free Riding Risk
To mitigate the free riding risk, we first discuss the
limitations of the general authentication mechanism in the
PDN scenario, and suggest a solution utilizing a disposable
and peer-binding authentication token.
Authentication mechanism. OAuth [46] is a widely used
authentication framework proposed to authorize third-party
access without providing credentials. Compared with a per-
sistent API key, OAuth can help reduce the risk of exposing
the credentials (API keys). Applying OAuth to the PDN
scenario, the viewer client first requests the video website
server to obtain a valid temporary token and then accesses
the PDN server with the token. When a viewer sends a
request to the PDN server, the PDN server will query the
video website server to verify the validness of the token,
which causes extra overhead to the video website server.
To reduce the communications between the PDN server and
the video website server, we suggest they perform a key
exchange in advance. The video website server will sign the
token delivered to valid viewers, allowing the PDN server
to verify the integrity of the token.
However, for the service free riding risk, a malicious
app can perform a man-in-the-middle (MITM) attack to
redirect viewers’ requests to a legitimate PDN customer
and get valid tokens to access the PDN service. To defend
against the MITM attack, existing mechanisms (e.g. Token
binding [49]) are based on the trust of clients, which is
unfortunately not the case for the service free riding at-
tack. To address this challenge, we suggest a solution by
binding tokens to valid video streams on legitimate PDN
customers. In this case. the attacker cannot utilize these
tokens to offload the traffic of its own video streaming,
which significantly reduces the economic motivations for
a service free riding attack. Also, we suggest to add usage
time limits and TTL in a token to prevent a replay attack.
Listing 2: Token structure
"customer_id": "xx.yy",
"pdn_peer_id": "1",
"video_ids": [
"https://xx.yy/zz.m3u8",
"https://xx.yy/hh.m3u8"
],
"timestamp": 1619814238,
"ttl": 60,
"usage_limit": 1
Disposable and video-binding token . Listing 2 illustrates
an example of the token with multiple fields, implementing
the suggestions above. Firstly, customer id is a string de-
signed for uniquely identifying each PDN customer, which
should be assigned from the PDN provider. Then, the PDN
customer server can assign each PDN peer a unique iden-
tifier, namely, pdn peer id. Also included is a video ids
field to identify the set of videos to be streamed in the
current page. There are multiple options to compose a
video identifier, e.g., utilizing the full-qualified video URL.
11

Following are the token issuance time (a Unix timestamp)
and a ttl field to denote the time to live in seconds since
issuance. The timestamp and ttl jointly decide whether the
token is expired or not. Another field usage limit is defined
to constrain the number of usage limit for this token.
To implement this token, we use JSON Web Token
(JWT) [51], an open industry standard for authentication,
to transmit the token and its digital signature. In our ex-
periment, the example token in Listing 2 along with its
HMAC-SHA256 signature will result in a encoded JWT of
283 bytes. Our evaluation shows that this defense incurs
acceptable overhead during generation, transmission and
verification, which is aligned with previous works on JWT
applications [65], [69].
5.2. Mitigating Video Segment Pollution Risk
Previous studies [39], [55], [61], [71] have evaluated
various defense mechanisms against the content pollution at-
tack and hash-based chunk signature is considered the most
promising solution. However, such protection requires the
video source to sign the integrity metadata and to distribute
it through the network, which is not applicable for PDN. As
a plugin for the existing CDN service, the PDN server has
no control of the video source or the CDN infrastructures.
Although it is possible for the PDN server to download
content from CDN, such behavior will incur high overhead
to both the CDN and the PDN server. Inspired by previous
works on comparison-based diagnosis [78], we suggest a
solution of peer-assisted content integrity checking.
Peer-assisted integrity checking. Our peer-assisted in-
tegrity checking mechanism utilizes a similar strategy to
[78] by randomly selecting PDN peers to calculate the
integrity metadata (IM, e.g., cryptographic hash) for a video
segment. However, our mechanism differs by utilizing a
trusted PDN server, which are used to resolve IM conflicts
and blacklist malicious peers. In our mechanisms, these
calculated IMs are reported to the PDN server, and the PDN
server consider an IM is authentic if all selected peers report
the same IM. Since malicious peers can report fake IMs, the
PDN server downloads the specified video segment from
CDN and calculate the authentic IM if an IM conflict was
detected. Peers reporting falsified IMs will be blacklisted.
As long as there are benign peers reporting IMs, the peer-
assisted integrity checking can help identify the authentic
one. The authentic IM will be further signed by the PDN
server, resulting in signed integrity metadata (SIM). The
SIM for each video segment will be distributed to peers
for integrity checking. Note a peer will report the IM only
when the respective video segment is downloaded directly
from the CDN, and a video segment downloaded from other
peers must be verified using its SIM.
To ensure the integrity of video content, the integrity
metadata should be robust to the replay attack. Specifically,
an attacker may record a legitimate video segment along
with its SIM, masquerade it as another video segment, send
it to the victim peers, and thus disrupt the video delivery.
Also, such a replay attack can occur not only for the same
video but also across videos. Therefore, the IM should also
be able to verify which video a segment belongs to as well
as its position in the manifest file. In our design, the IM is
calculated as the cryptographic hash of the tuple of video
segment content, the video identifier, and the position of the
video segment in the manifest file.
The peer blacklist. Since the PDN server will download
a video segment from CDN when a conflict occurs, the
attacker may keep sending fake IMs to increase the server
overhead and traffic cost for the CDN. It is necessary for
the PDN server to track peers and maintain a peer blacklist.
Specifically, the PDN server assigns a unique ID to each
peer at the start of the session. The ID should bind to the
peer’s public IP address and port or other information for
tracking. If a peer is detected to have involved in suspicious
behaviors (e.g., sending a fake IM), it will be blacklisted
and removed from the peer candidates. Note this ID should
only be visible to the PDN server in case other peers may
abuse the ID for tracking.
Our evaluation in simulated environment shows that our
peer-assisted integrity checking incurs negligible CPU and
memory consumption and an extra latency of less than 80
ms, as detailed in Appendix 9.3.
5.3. Mitigating Peer IP Leak Risk
Here we also discuss potential countermeasures for PDN
providers to restrain the peer IP leaks in PDN. As discussed
in §4.4, a viewer’s IP is exposed to all its candidate peers. A
straightforward solution is to limit the number of candidate
peers. Specifically, the PDN server can retrieve the real IP
of peers and query the information of these IPs such as
geolocation and ISP. Based on the information, the PDN
server can configure candidate peers to those sharing the
same country or ISP. Such countermeasure can prevent
unnecessary IP exposure effectively. From the test results
in §4.4, the number of leaked peer IPs will decrease signif-
icantly, i.e., only 35% leaked IPs from RT News are in the
same country as our controlled peer, and none of the leaked
IPs from Huya TV will be visible to our controlled peer.
Although the heuristic method above mitigates the IP
exposure to some extent, an attacker can still bypass this
defense through a proxy peer. Also, constraining the number
of candidate peers may affect the QoS of PDN services. A
fundamental solution provided by WebRTC is to relay traffic
between peers through TURN servers [15]. TURN servers
act as proxy servers between peers and can be utilized
to circumvent network censorship [36]. With the existence
of TURN servers, peers do not communicate directly and
thus prevent the peer IP leak risk. As mentioned in §3.3,
we observed two adult video platforms ( xhamsterlive.com
and stripchat.com) utilized TURN servers to relay traffic.
This is probably designed to protect the viewers’ privacy
since watching adult videos is privacy-sensitive. However,
peer communications in PDN can incur a large volume of
network traffic and thus cause huge overhead to TURN
servers, which is not feasible in a large-scale PDN system.
12

6. Discussion
Limitations. Our detection for PDN providers (§3.2) may
miss ones that are either proprietary or of low public visibil-
ity, which also applies to the detection for PDN customers
(§3.3). Meanwhile, due to challenges in triggering PDN
traffic, we take a signature-based PDN customer detector,
which is not robust to code obfuscation. It is also possible
that some PDN customers that match our signatures may not
enable the PDN service. Also, while the PDN ecosystem
is found to be vulnerable to serious security risks, we failed
to evaluate some of our security tests on the Streamroot and
private PDN services. It is still not fully understood whether
the free riding risk and video segment pollution attack can
be exploited in these PDN services. Without access to PDN
servers, it is impossible to detect whether these risks have
been exploited by attackers in real-world PDN activities.
Future works . We plan to seek collaboration with PDN
providers and explore how to detect real-world attacks
targeting the PDN ecosystem as well as evaluating the
proposed defense solutions (as detailed in §5). Furthermore,
considering the wide adoption of private PDN infrastruc-
ture by popular video streaming services (e.g., Youku and
YouNow), another future direction is to cooperate with these
private PDN customers and fully test the potential risks of
their service with our PDN analysis framework.
Responsible Disclosure We have responsibly reported the
aforementioned security risks to relevant PDN providers,
including Peer5, Viblast, and Streamroot. Except for Stream-
root, both Peer5 and Viblast have responded to our dis-
closure and acknowledged the disclosed risks. Specifically,
for the service free riding risk, Peer5 acknowledged that
non-browser clients could spoof the origin and incur extra
costs to the customers. And regarding the video segment
pollution attack, both Peer5 and Viblast acknowledged the
security vulnerability. Peer5 also claimed that they provide
premium features to check the integrity of video segments,
which need to be integrated into the customer’s HTTP
delivery. While Viblast mentioned that they provide a player
plugin to implement an MD5 segment hash provider, which
downloads the video segment from the streaming server and
computes the MD5 value of each video segment for peers
to compare with. In terms of user consent, both Peer5 and
Viblast argue that they suggest their customers inform users
of the potential resource consumption and not to use cellular
traffic for uploading.
Data and code release . Relevant datasets and source code
will be released online [1]. We will open-source most of our
study infrastructure, including our PDN customer detector
and PDN analysis framework. Also, the datasets produced
by our study will be released, including the full list of
identified PDN customers.
7. Related Works
P2P video streaming network . Multiple large-scale mea-
surements have been explored to leverage residential peers
for video streaming services, called P2P-CDNs, includ-
ing Xunlei Kankan [75], LiveSky [73], Akamai [77] and
Spotify [45]. All these P2P-CDNs require users to install
client-side software and user consent to enable P2P ser-
vices. Another set of work explored utilizing residential
gateway devices such as Wi-Fi hotspots and cellular base
stations [56], [57]. More recent research aims to get rid of
client-side software or devices through WebRTC. Typical
examples include Hive.js [67] and Maygh [76], which are
similar to the paradigm under our study but not compatible
with existing CDN infrastructures. Our research focuses
on the emerging PDN ecosystem, which differs from P2P
file-sharing networks and P2P-CDNs as it is integrated as
a convenient JavaScript SDK to video websites/apps and
combines the existing CDN service with WebRTC channels.
Content pollution in P2P networks. Content pollution
attack [39], [53], [54] has been proposed in P2P live stream-
ing networks and other P2P file-sharing systems. Prithula
Dhungel etc. [39] performed the first content pollution attack
in a commercial P2P live stream by mixing bogus chunks to
degrade the quality of a video stream. To address the content
pollution risk, a lot of works [55], [61], [71], [78] model the
impact of the content pollution attack and propose defense
mechanisms to mitigate the risk. Roverli P. Ziwich [78]
proposed a distributed diagnosis of content pollution in P2P
live streaming networks based on a comparison among all
neighboring peers. Haizhou Wang etc. [71] further inves-
tigated the propagation of a content pollution attack. Our
work propose a novel attack of video segment pollution in
PDN, which has never been investigated before.
WebRTC security. WebRTC has been studied from various
aspects to investigate its security risks. For example, De
Groef et al. [38] study the identity authenticity of com-
municate peers and proposes several attack scenarios to
compromise peers’ identity authenticity, while [32] studies
the IP leaking incurred by WebRTC deployment and pro-
files the extent to which the selection of browsers, VPN
services, and VPN clients can affect this leaking issue.
Moving forward, [42] works to prevent IP leaking through
a browser extension and a network traffic proxy. Besides,
other security risks have also been revealed, especially the
risks to proxy peers’ local network environment through in-
browser network scanning [47], [66] and the potential abuse
of peers’ bandwidth resource [66]. Recently, Barradas in
[36], explores new security applications of WebRTC and
proposes Protozoa, a novel multimedia covert streaming
channel, to circumvent network censorship leveraging in-
browser WebRTC support. In our research, we reveal the
wide use of WebRTC in peer-assisted video streaming ser-
vices, and identify the peer IP leak risk.
Resource squatting. A line of works [37], [41], [62] have
revealed cryptojacking wherein device computing resources
are abused by miscreants for cryptocurrency mining. In
addition, another abuse scenario is the unauthorized moneti-
zation of residential and mobile devices into web proxies to
relay third-party network traffic [59], [60]. Moving forward
from these studies, we reveal for the first time how video
13

viewers’ devices and network resources can be consumed
without user consent to serve the video streaming services
and third-party PDN providers.
8. Conclusions
In this paper, we carried out the first empirical study
on the security risks of PDN ecosystem. Our study leads to
the discovery of 3 representative PDN providers along with
134 websites, 38 mobile apps, and 9 private PDN services.
Through a PDN analysis framework, we uncovered and
evaluated four significant security risks, including service
free riding risk, video segment pollution attack, peer IP leak
risk, and resource squatting, which may affect millions of
video viewers. Upon a solid understanding of these security
risks, we have proposed several defense options to mitigate
the risks.
References
[1] Attack demo on content pollution. https://sites.google.com/view/pd
nsec/home/demo.
[2] Chromedriver. https://chromedriver.chromium.org/.
[3] Develop with Docker Engine API. https://docs.docker.com/engine/a
pi/.
[4] Geckodriver. https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver.
[5] Http live streaming. https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8216.
[6] Jw player - hybrid peer-to-peer delivery. https://demos.jwplayer.com
/peer-accelerated-delivery/.
[7] Live stream downloader. https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/
live-stream-downloader/looepbdllpjgdmkpdcdffhdbmpbcfekj?hl=en.
[8] Peer5 docs - microsoft stream integration. https://docs.peer5.com/pl
atforms/microsoft-stream/.
[9] Peer5 joins microsoft. https://blog.peer5.com/peer5-joins-microsoft
/?ref=ms-banner.
[10] Peerjs - simple peer-to-peer with webrtc. https://peerjs.com/.
[11] Secure reliable transport. https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-sharabayk
o-srt-00.
[12] Seleniumhq broswer automation. https://www.selenium.dev/.
[13] Tcpdump/libpcap public repository. https://www.tcpdump.org/.
[14] Webrtc. https://webrtc.org/.
[15] Webrtc turn server. https://webrtc.org/getting-started/turn-server.
[16] Spoify removes peer-to-peer technologyy from its deskop client.
https://techcrunch.com/2014/04/17/spotify-removes-peer-to-peer-tec
hnology-from-its-desktop-client/, 2014.
[17] Cisco predicts more ip traffic in the next five years than in the history
of the internet. Technical report, November 2018.
[18] Akama network deployment. https://www.akamai.com/us/en/about/f
acts-figures.jsp, 2021.
[19] Bogon filtering. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bogon filtering, Apr.
2021.
[20] Content delivery nework:cdn mesh delivery—lumen. https://www.lu
men.com/en-us/edge-computing/mesh-delivery.html?utm source=St
reamroot&utm medium=link&utm campaign=Streamroot-transition,
2021.
[21] Farsight security, cyber security intelligence solutions. https://www.
farsightsecurity.com/, 2021.
[22] Ipinfo.io:comprehensive ip address data, ip geolocation api and
database. https://ipinfo.io/, 2021.
[23] Nerdydata.com: Search the web’s source code. https://www.nerdyd
ata.com/, 2021.
[24] Peer5. https://www.peer5.com/product/, 2021.
[25] Publicwww.com: Search engine for sourcecode. https://publicwww.
com/, 2021.
[26] Secure your streamroot key - streamroot documentation.
https://support.streamroot.io/hc/en-us/articles/360021721214-Sec
ure-your-Streamroot-Key, 2021.
[27] Security - Peer5 P2P Docs. https://docs.peer5.com/security/, 2021.
[28] Similarweb - similarweb traffic analysis. https://www.similarweb.c
om/, 2021.
[29] Viblast PDN. https://viblast.com/pdn/enterprise/, 2021.
[30] Web archive for peer5’s homepage on march 5th, 2021. http://web.
archive.org/web/20210305133908/https://www.peer5.com/, 2021.
[31] Youtube embedded players and player parameters. https://develope
rs.google.com/youtube/player parameters, Apr. 2021.
[32] Nasser Mohammed Al-Fannah. One leak will sink a ship: Webrtc
ip address leaks. In 2017 International Carnahan Conference on
Security Technology (ICCST), pages 1–5. IEEE, 2017.
[33] Kevin Allix, Tegawend ´e F Bissyand ´e, Jacques Klein, and Yves
Le Traon. Androzoo: Collecting millions of android apps for the
research community. In 2016 IEEE/ACM 13th Working Conference
on Mining Software Repositories (MSR), pages 468–471. IEEE, 2016.
[34] Nasreen Anjum, Dmytro Karamshuk, Mohammad Shikh-Bahaei, and
Nishanth Sastry. Survey on peer-assisted content delivery networks.
Computer Networks, 116:79–95, 2017.
[35] Franc ¸ois Baccelli, Fabien Mathieu, Ilkka Norros, and R ´emi Varloot.
Can p2p networks be super-scalable? In 2013 Proceedings IEEE
INFOCOM, pages 1753–1761. IEEE, 2013.
[36] Diogo Barradas, Nuno Santos, Lu ´ıs Rodrigues, and V ´ıtor Nunes.
Poking a hole in the wall: Efficient censorship-resistant internet
communications by parasitizing on webrtc. In Proceedings of the
2020 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, pages 35–48, 2020.
[37] Hugo LJ Bijmans, Tim M Booij, and Christian Doerr. Inadvertently
making cyber criminals rich: A comprehensive study of cryptojacking
campaigns at internet scale. In 28th {USENIX} Security Symposium
({USENIX} Security 19), pages 1627–1644, 2019.
[38] Willem De Groef, Deepak Subramanian, Martin Johns, Frank
Piessens, and Lieven Desmet. Ensuring endpoint authenticity in
webrtc peer-to-peer communication. In Proceedings of the 31st
Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing , pages 2103–2110,
2016.
[39] Prithula Dhungel, Xiaojun Hei, Keith W Ross, and Nitesh Saxena.
The pollution attack in p2p live video streaming: measurement results
and defenses. In Proceedings of the 2007 workshop on Peer-to-peer
streaming and IP-TV , pages 323–328, 2007.
[40] Steven Englehardt and Arvind Narayanan. Online tracking: A 1-
million-site measurement and analysis. In Proceedings of the 2016
ACM SIGSAC conference on computer and communications security ,
pages 1388–1401, 2016.
[41] Shayan Eskandari, Andreas Leoutsarakos, Troy Mursch, and Jeremy
Clark. A first look at browser-based cryptojacking. In 2018 IEEE Eu-
ropean Symposium on Security and Privacy Workshops (EuroS&PW),
pages 58–66. IEEE, 2018.
[42] Alexandros Fakis, Georgios Karopoulos, and Georgios Kambourakis.
Neither denied nor exposed: Fixing webrtc privacy leaks. Future
Internet, 12(5):92, 2020.
[43] Ian Fette and Alexey Melnikov. The websocket protocol. RFC 6455,
RFC Editor, December 2011.
14

[44] Gabriela Gheorghe, Renato Lo Cigno, and Alberto Montresor. Secu-
rity and privacy issues in p2p streaming systems: A survey. Peer-to-
Peer Networking and Applications , 4(2):75–91, 2011.
[45] Mikael Goldmann and Gunnar Kreitz. Measurements on the spotify
peer-assisted music-on-demand streaming system. In 2011 IEEE
International Conference on Peer-to-Peer Computing, pages 206–211.
IEEE, 2011.
[46] Dick Hardt. The oauth 2.0 authorization framework. Technical report,
2012.
[47] Mohammadreza Hazhirpasand and Mohammad Ghafari. One leak
is enough to expose them all. In International Symposium on
Engineering Secure Software and Systems , pages 61–76. Springer,
2018.
[48] Ethan Heilman, Alison Kendler, Aviv Zohar, and Sharon Goldberg.
Eclipse attacks on bitcoin’s peer-to-peer network. In 24th {USENIX}
Security Symposium ( {USENIX} Security 15), pages 129–144, 2015.
[49] Ping Identity and W Denniss. Oauth 2.0 token binding. 2017.
[50] Alan Johnston and Robert J. Sparks. Session description protocol
(sdp) offer/answer examples. RFC 4317, RFC Editor, December 2005.
[51] Michael B Jones. The emerging json-based identity protocol suite.
In W3C workshop on identity in the browser , pages 1–3, 2011.
[52] Ari Keranen, Christer Holmberg, and Jonathan Rosenberg. Interactive
connectivity establishment (ice): A protocol for network address
translator (nat) traversal. RFC 8445, RFC Editor, July 2018.
[53] Jian Liang, Rakesh Kumar, Yongjian Xi, and Keith W Ross. Pollution
in p2p file sharing systems. In Proceedings IEEE 24th Annual Joint
Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. ,
volume 2, pages 1174–1185. IEEE, 2005.
[54] Jian Liang, Naoum Naoumov, and Keith W Ross. The index poisoning
attack in p2p file sharing systems. In INFOCOM, pages 1–12.
Citeseer, 2006.
[55] Eric Lin, Daniel Medeiros Nunes de Castro, Mea Wang, and John
Aycock. Spoim: A close look at pollution attacks in p2p live
streaming. In 2010 IEEE 18th International Workshop on Quality
of Service (IWQoS) , pages 1–9. IEEE, 2010.
[56] Ge Ma, Zhi Wang, Miao Zhang, Jiahui Ye, Minghua Chen, and
Wenwu Zhu. Understanding performance of edge content caching
for mobile video streaming. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in
Communications, 35(5):1076–1089, 2017.
[57] Ming Ma, Zhi Wang, Ke Su, and Lifeng Sun. Understanding content
placement strategies in smartrouter-based peer video cdn. In Proceed-
ings of the 26th International Workshop on Network and Operating
Systems Support for Digital Audio and Video , pages 1–6, 2016.
[58] Yuval Marcus, Ethan Heilman, and Sharon Goldberg. Low-resource
eclipse attacks on ethereum’s peer-to-peer network. IACR Cryptol.
ePrint Arch., 2018:236, 2018.
[59] Xianghang Mi, Xuan Feng, Xiaojing Liao, Baojun Liu, XiaoFeng
Wang, Feng Qian, Zhou Li, Sumayah Alrwais, Limin Sun, and Ying
Liu. Resident evil: Understanding residential ip proxy as a dark
service. In 2019 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) ,
pages 1185–1201. IEEE, 2019.
[60] Xianghang Mi, Siyuan Tang, Zhengyi Li, Xiaojing Liao, Feng Qian,
and XiaoFeng Wang. Your phone is my proxy: Detecting and
understanding mobile proxy networks. 2021.
[61] Guillaume Montassier, Thibault Cholez, Guillaume Doyen, Rida
Khatoun, Isabelle Chrisment, and Olivier Festor. Content pollution
quantification in large p2p networks: A measurement study on kad.
In 2011 IEEE International Conference on Peer-to-Peer Computing ,
pages 30–33. IEEE, 2011.
[62] Marius Musch, Christian Wressnegger, Martin Johns, and Konrad
Rieck. Thieves in the browser: Web-based cryptojacking in the wild.
In Proceedings of the 14th International Conference on Availability,
Reliability and Security , pages 1–10, 2019.
[63] H Parmar and M Thornburgh. Adobe’s real time messaging protocol.
Copyright Adobe Systems Incorporated , pages 1–52, 2012.
[64] Victor Le Pochat, Tom Van Goethem, Samaneh Tajalizadehkhoob,
Maciej Korczy ´nski, and Wouter Joosen. Tranco: A research-oriented
top sites ranking hardened against manipulation. In proceedings of
the Network and Distributed System Security Symposium , 2019.
[65] A Rahmatulloh, R Gunawan, and FMS Nursuwars. Performance
comparison of signed algorithms on json web token. In IOP Confer-
ence Series: Materials Science and Engineering , volume 550, page
012023. IOP Publishing, 2019.
[66] Andreas Reiter and Alexander Marsalek. Webrtc: your privacy is at
risk. In Proceedings of the Symposium on Applied Computing , pages
664–669, 2017.
[67] Roberto Roverso and Mikael H ¨ogqvist. Hive. js: Browser-based
distributed caching for adaptive video streaming. In 2014 IEEE
International Symposium on Multimedia, pages 143–146. IEEE, 2014.
[68] Henning Schulzrinne, Anup Rao, and Robert Lanphier. Real time
streaming protocol (rtsp), 1998.
[69] Prajakta Solapurkar. Building secure healthcare services using oauth
2.0 and json web token in iot cloud scenario. In 2016 2nd Inter-
national Conference on Contemporary Computing and Informatics
(IC3I), pages 99–104. IEEE, 2016.
[70] Thomas Stockhammer. Dynamic adaptive streaming over http– stan-
dards and design principles. In Proceedings of the second annual
ACM conference on Multimedia systems , pages 133–144, 2011.
[71] Haizhou Wang, Xingshu Chen, Wenxian Wang, and Mei Ya Chan.
Content pollution propagation in the overlay network of peer-to-peer
live streaming systems: modelling and analysis. IET Communications,
12(17):2119–2131, 2018.
[72] Jason Weil, Victor Kuarsingh, Chris Donley, Christopher Liljenstolpe,
and Marla Azinger. Iana-reserved ipv4 prefix for shared address
space. IETF Request for Comment , 6598, 2012.
[73] Hao Yin, Xuening Liu, Tongyu Zhan, Vyas Sekar, Feng Qiu, Chuang
Lin, Hui Zhang, and Bo Li. Livesky: Enhancing cdn with p2p.
ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and
Applications (TOMM), 6(3):1–19, 2010.
[74] Wei Yu, Corey Boyer, Sriram Chellappan, and Dong Xuan. Peer-to-
peer system-based active worm attacks: Modeling and analysis. In
IEEE International Conference on Communications, 2005. ICC 2005.
2005, volume 1, pages 295–300. IEEE, 2005.
[75] Ge Zhang, Wei Liu, Xiaojun Hei, and Wenqing Cheng. Unreel-
ing xunlei kankan: Understanding hybrid cdn-p2p video-on-demand
streaming. IEEE Transactions on Multimedia , 17(2):229–242, 2014.
[76] Liang Zhang, Fangfei Zhou, Alan Mislove, and Ravi Sundaram.
Maygh: Building a cdn from client web browsers. In Proceedings
of the 8th ACM European Conference on Computer Systems , pages
281–294, 2013.
[77] Mingchen Zhao, Paarijaat Aditya, Ang Chen, Yin Lin, Andreas
Haeberlen, Peter Druschel, Bruce Maggs, Bill Wishon, and Miroslav
Ponec. Peer-assisted content distribution in akamai netsession. In
Proceedings of the 2013 conference on Internet measurement confer-
ence, pages 31–42, 2013.
[78] Roverli P Ziwich, Elias P Duarte Jr, and Glaucio P Silveira. Dis-
tributed mitigation of content pollution in peer-to-peer video stream-
ing networks. IET Communications, 2020.
9. Appendix
9.1. Identified PDN Signatures & Customers
Table 5 presents the identified signatures of PDN
providers. Table 6, Table 7, and Table 8 list respectively top
public PDN websites, top public PDN apps, and 9 private
PDN services, as identified in our study.
15

TABLE 5: Signatures of the studied PDN providers
PDN Provider Web Signatures APK Signatures
Peer5 api.peer5.com/peer5.js?id=*
api.peer5.com/peer5*.plugin.js
com.peer5.android
com.peer5.ApiKey
com.peer5.sdk
Streamroot cdn.streamroot.io/*.js?srKey=*
cdn.streamroot.io/*dna-wrapper.js
io.streamroot.dna
io.streamroot.dna.StreamrootKey
Viblast
viblast.js
data-viblast-key
data-viblast-enable-pdn
com.viblast.android
libviblast.so
libnative-viblast.jni.so
Private
RTCPeerConnection &
RTCIceCandidate &
iceServers
–
TABLE 6: Top 15 detected PDN websites
PDN websites PDN provider # Monthly visits
dailymail.co.uk Peer5 373M
rt.com Streamroot 117M
gamespot.com Peer5 78M
clarin.com Peer5 69M
terra.com.br Peer5 55M
cnet.com Peer5 46M
rtve.es Peer5 35M
tn.com.ar Peer5 21M
tvguide.com Peer5 18M
reallifecam.com Viblast 17M
manyvids.com Streamroot 17M
metacritic.com Peer5 16M
wetter.de Streamroot 15M
n1info.com Viblast 14M
voyeur-house.tv Viblast 14M
TABLE 7: Top 15 detected PDN apps
PDN apps PDN provider # Google Play
downloads
com.graymatrix.did Peer5 100M
iflix.play Streamroot 50M
com.fplay.activity Peer5 10M
com.nousguide.android.rbtv Peer5 10M
com.portonics.mygp Peer5 10M
mivo.tv Peer5 10M
vn.vtv.vtvgo Peer5 10M
com.tdcm.trueidapp Peer5 10M
com.tru Peer5 10M
vn.vtv.vtvgotv Peer5 5M
com.bongo.bioscope Peer5 5M
tv.fubo.mobile Peer5 5M
tv.sweet.tvplayer Streamroot 1M
com.tvplayer Streamroot 1M
com.ug.eon.android Viblast 1M
9.2. Generating Polluted Video Segments
To circumvent the constraints in the video segment pol-
lution test mentioned in §4.3, we propose a general method
to generate polluted video segments: overlay the target video
on top of the original video files. Specifically, the attacker
first retrieves all video segment files and combines them as
the original video file. Then the attacker overlays the target
text or video on top of the original video file to obtain the
TABLE 8: 9 confirmed private PDN services
PDN websites Country # Monthly visits
ok.ru Russia 662M
douyu.com China 95M
v.qq.com China 92M
iqiyi.com China 82M
huya.com China 61M
youku.com China 60M
tudou.com China 44M
mgtv.com China 42M
younow.com US 1M
polluted file. Since the target text or video is on the top level,
it will be displayed to viewers. Then the attacker can split
the polluted video into segments with the same parameters
as the original video file. The splitting parameters, i.e., the
length of each segment and the segment filename, can be
easily retrieved from the original manifest file. As a result,
the attacker can generate the polluted video segments and
play them seamlessly with the original manifest file.
9.3. Evaluation of Peer-assisted Integrity Checking
We set up a simulation environment to evaluate our
mitigation against the video segment pollution in terms of
feasibility and performance. Our simulation environment
includes a signaling server, a PDN JavaScript SDK, and
a website integrating this SDK. Among these components,
the signaling server and the PDN SDK are built upon an
open-source WebRTC library, PeerJS [10], since there is no
open-sourced PDN system available up to our knowledge.
Leveraging this simulation environment, we implemented
our defense designs and demonstrated their feasibility. We
further evaluated the performance overhead with a focus
on profiling the resource consumption of IM calculation
and verification. This is achieved through three groups of
control experiments. In each group, we specified 6 peers,
with 3 as the senders and the other 3 as the receivers.
Each receiver peer requests from the senders a typical video
segment with a length of 10 seconds, lasting for a total
of 600 seconds. Different groups are set based on settings
including whether to do P2P video segment delivery, and
whether to do IM calculation for the sending peers and
16

TABLE 9: Evaluation for IM checking
Browser PDN IM checking CPU Memory Latency
Chrome No No 1 1 -
Chrome Yes No 1.11 1.21 67ms
Chrome Yes Yes 1.14 1.24 140ms
IM verification for the receiving peers. During this process,
the resource consumption of the sending peers is measured
using Docker APIs, while the latency of IM calculation is
measured by the time difference of Trecv − Tsend, where
Trecv is the receiving time after IM verification and Tsend
means the sending time before IM calculation. The results
are shown in Table 9. As we can see, the IM calculation will
incur negligible CPU and memory consumption on average.
And the latency of adding IM checking is increased by less
than 80 ms for a video segment of 3MB size.
17