An extended abstract [TRB+25a] of this article appears in the proceedings of ACM CCS 2025. The full version [TRB+25b] is available as entry 2025/1619 in the
IACR eprint archive. The source code of the corresponding implementation as well as a performance evaluation are available as a Zenodo record [Sch25].
Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
Lea Thiemt
FAU Erlangen-Nürnberg
Erlangen, Germany
lea.thiemt@fau.de
Paul Rösler
FAU Erlangen-Nürnberg
Erlangen, Germany
paul.roesler@fau.de
Alexander Bienstock∗
J.P. Morgan AI Research and J.P.
Morgan AlgoCRYPT CoE
New York, NY, USA
alex.bienstock@jpmchase.com
Rolfe Schmidt
Signal Messenger
Mountain View, CA, USA
rolfe@signal.org
Yevgeniy Dodis
New York University
New York, NY, USA
dodis@cs.nyu.edu
Abstract
Modern messengers use advanced end-to-end encryption protocols
to protect message content even if user secrets are ever temporarily
exposed. Yet, encryption alone does not prevent user tracking, as
protocols often attach metadata, such as sequence numbers, public
keys, or even plain user identifiers. This metadata reveals the social
network as well as communication patterns between users. Existing
protocols that hide metadata in Signal (i.e., Sealed Sender), for MLS-
like constructions (Hashimoto et al., CCS 2022), or in mesh networks
(Bienstock et al., CCS 2023) are relatively inefficient or specially
tailored for only particular settings. Moreover, all existing practical
solutions reveal crucial metadata upon exposures of user secrets.
In this work, we introduce a formal definition of Anonymity
Wrappers (AW) that generically hide metadata of underlying two-
party and group messaging protocols. Our definition captures for-
ward and post-compromise anonymity as well as authenticity in the
presence of temporary state exposures. Inspired by prior wrapper
designs, the idea of our provably secure AW construction is to use
shared keys of the underlying wrapped (group) messaging protocols
to derive and continuously update symmetric keys for hiding meta-
data. Beyond hiding metadata on the wire, we also avoid and hide
structural metadata in users’ local states for stronger anonymity
upon their exposure.
We implement our construction, evaluate its performance, and
provide a detailed comparison with Signal’s current approach based
on Sealed Sender: Our construction reduces the wire size of small 1:1
messages from 441 bytes to 114 bytes. For a group of 100 members,
it reduces the wire size of outgoing group messages from 7240 bytes
to 155 bytes. We see similar improvements in computation time
for encryption and decryption, but these improvements come with
substantial storage costs for receivers. For this reason, we develop
extensions with a Bloom filter for compressing the receiver storage.
Based on this, Signal considers deploying our solution.
1 Introduction
Most modern messengers are based on advanced encryption proto-
cols that continuously update the used key material. Due to these
updates, exposing the local secrets of a user does not affect the con-
fidentiality of past or future encrypted messages, which is called
Forward Secrecy(FS) andPost-Compromise Security(PCS), respec-
tively.
∗Alexander Bienstock did not contribute to the implementation for this paper.
Privacy and Anonymity.While these encryption protocols pro-
vide strong confidentiality for the communicated payload, metadata
about the communicating users remains unprotected. In particular,
without further measures, central messaging providers learn the so-
cial network and the communication patterns between their users.
A range of techniques has been proposed to protect user anonymity
in messaging, targeting different layers of the communication stack.
Network-level approaches, such as onion routing [RSG98, DMS04]
and mix networks [Abe99, SW06], obfuscate communication paths
and patterns in transit. Similarly, server-side techniques like Pri-
vate Information Retrieval [CKGS98, SJ17] and Oblivious Message
Retrieval [LT22] prevent servers from learning which messages
users send or receive. While these mechanisms are essential for
achieving full anonymity in practice, they are orthogonal to our
work. Concretely, our approach does not hide metadata which a
routing service attaches to the ciphertext. Instead, our approach
operates at the protocol level and falls in line with the approaches
we discuss in the following. Notably, our protocols can be efficiently
instantiated by standard building blocks.
Sealed Sender.With Signal’s anonymization layer, calledSealed
Sender, a sender 𝑆 public-key-encrypts each messaging cipher-
text𝑐′ with the receiver’s long-term key pk𝑅. While the Double
Ratchet ciphertext𝑐′ contains visible metadata like a sequence num-
ber or repeating sender public keys, the Sealed Sender ciphertext
𝑐∗ =enc(pk 𝑅,𝑐′) looks random. For efficient delivery via the cen-
tral messaging server, the sender attaches the receiver’s identifier
to the anonymized ciphertext:𝑐=(𝑐 ∗,𝑅) ; the actual Sealed Sender
protocol is slightly more complex and, additionally, offers sender au-
thentication. Overall, this anonymizing public-key encryption layer
hides all explicit metadata towards observers on the wire, except the
receiver identity, which serves as routing information. The receiver
can simply decrypt all incoming ciphertext with their long-term
secret key sk𝑅. Recent analyses of Sealed Sender [MKA+21, BH23]
demonstrate that, despite hiding explicit metadata, the interac-
tion between communication partners can reveal their identities;
this issue arises on the routing level and, as mentioned above, is
outside the scope of our work. However, the approach of Sealed
Sender has three further crucial drawbacks: (a) when sending mes-
sages to a group𝐺={𝑅 𝑖}𝑖∈[𝑛] , the sender encrypts the compact
group messaging ciphertext individually to every other group mem-
ber𝑅𝑖,𝑖∈[𝑛] , which induces a linear computation and communi-
cation overhead; (b) if a receiver is ever corrupted, their exposed

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
long-term secret key sk𝑅 reveals the sender identity of every cipher-
text sent to them; (c) it is unclear how the Diffie-Hellman-based
design of Sealed Sender can be made post-quantum secure.
Double Ratchet Extension.To protect hidden metadata even
after exposures of user secrets, the specification of Signal’s Double
Ratchet (DR) [PM16a] proposes an alternative concept to Sealed
Sender, calledHeader Encryption. With this, users regularly derive
fresh additional keys 𝑘𝑖 from the key updates of the DR, which
are used to encrypt metadata of the messaging ciphertexts via
𝑐∗
𝑖 =enc(𝑘 𝑖,𝑐′
𝑖). However, it remains unclear from this concept
specification how receivers identify the right key for decrypting
ciphertexts𝑐∗
𝑖 with encrypted metadata. (Note that receivers have
multiple ongoing DR session in parallel—at least one with each
sender—and possibly many header encryption keys in each session;
if the header-encrypted ciphertext contains no visible metadata
about its session or its sender, identifying the right key may require
expensive trial decryptions.) Therefore, Signal’s Header Encryption
is not suited for practice.
Metadata in MLS.The MLS standard [ BBR+23] for secure group
messaging proposes a concept similar to Header Encryption, called
Private Messages. There, all metadata of messaging ciphertexts𝑐′
𝑖 ,
except a session identifier for the group chat and the current epoch
therein, are encrypted with dedicated keys: 𝑐𝑖 =(id 𝐺,ep𝐺,
enc(𝑘 id𝐺,ep𝐺,𝑐′
𝑖)). Using the revealed group identifier and epoch
number(id𝐺,ep𝐺), receivers can efficiently find the right key𝑘id𝐺,ep𝐺
in their local state for decrypting the remaining metadata. The on-
going MIMI standardization initiative extends MLS forinteroperable
messaging; the MIMIMI [KK25] draft, which extends MIMI for hid-
ing metadata, proposes techniques that are similar to MLS’s Private
Messages. So far, Signal’s Sealed Sender, MLS’s Private Messages,
and MIMIMI have not been formally analyzed.
Private Messages in MLS only hide metadata for messaging ci-
phertexts. The metadata of the remaining MLS traffic is not pro-
tected by this, which includes cryptographic key updates and group
membership operations. Hashimoto et al. [HKP22] propose a spe-
cialized extension for this. Their extension is designed to facilitate
key updates in tree-based Continuous Group Key Agreement (CGKA)
protocols without leaking the structure of the group or the initiator
of such updates.
Further Academic Work.From a rather theoretical perspective,
Dowling et al. [DHRR22] develop a strongly anonymous protocol
that continuously establishes fresh keys in a unidirectional two-
party session; for this, they extend prior non-anonymous concepts
of unidirectional messaging [BSJ+17, PR18b, PR18a, BRV20, RSS23,
CR25]. While this hides metadata on the wire as well as in the users’
local states, the novel pairing-based Lamport signature scheme in
their protocol is too inefficient for real-world deployment.
Finally, as a byproduct of their messaging protocol for mesh
networks, Bienstock et al. [ BRT23] propose a simple anonymiz-
ing wrapper protocol for the DR. Similar to Header Encryption,
senders regularly derive fresh keys𝑘𝑖 from the DR to anonymize
messaging ciphertexts𝑐′
𝑖 that contain metadata. In additition to
each derived key𝑘𝑖, a random looking tag𝑡𝑖 is derived, which is
attached to the final anonymized ciphertext 𝑐𝑖 =(enc(𝑘 𝑖,𝑐′
𝑖),𝑡𝑖)
before sending. The receiver pre-computes multiple derived keys
and tags(𝑘𝑗,𝑡𝑗) in advance such that, when receiving an anony-
mized ciphertext𝑐𝑗 =(𝑐∗
𝑗,𝑡𝑗), they can take the attached tag𝑡𝑗 to
find the matching de-anonymization key 𝑘𝑗 for decryption. Our
protocol is inspired by this. Yet, the construction by Bienstock et
al. [BRT23] has notable drawbacks: (a) since it does not offer sender
authentication, it is not directly generalizable to group messaging;
(b) the size of the lists of pre-computed keys and tags in the receiver
state can be too large for deployment in practice; (c) although the
authors aimed to reduce metadata in the local user states, their
construction leaks communication patterns due to stored sequence
numbers of (not yet) received ciphertexts.
In conclusion, there exist many specially tailored techniques
for hiding metadata of certain messaging protocols. An overview
thereof can be found in Table 1. All practically relevant techniques
reveal some metadata upon user corruptions and, more importantly,
there has been no attempt to formalize a cryptographic abstraction
that covers the idea of a generic Anonymity Wrapper.
Cryptographic Primitive.We introduce the concept of an Anony-
mity Wrapper (AW) as a cryptographic primitive, which generically
hides metadata from existing messaging protocols. This primitive
has four algorithms:AW.upS, which initializes or updates the sender
state, AW.upR, which does the same for the receiver state,AW.encS,
which wraps ciphertexts of underlying messaging protocols to
hide metadata and anonymize their users, and AW.decR, which
de-anonymizes wrapped ciphertexts.
Anonymity under State Exposures.We require that AW proto-
cols offer Forward Anonymity (FA), which means that a wrapped
ciphertext𝑐 must look random even if the local states of sender or
receivers are exposedafter 𝑐 was sent and received, respectively.
Furthermore, AW must offer Post-Compromise Anonymity (PCA),
which means that the update algorithms AW.upS and AW.upR re-
fresh the user states such that the wrapped ciphertext𝑐 looks ran-
dom even if the user states were exposedbeforesuch an update. We
formalize these two requirements withgame-baseddefinitions in
Section 3.1.
We complement these definitions in Section 5.1 focusing on the
metadata leakage of the sender and receiver state to meaningfully
capture a broader sense of anonymity under state exposures. For
this, consider an example protocol with random looking ciphertexts,
which fulfills the two above requirements. However, this protocol
stores sequence numbers and timestamps for all (not yet) received
ciphertexts in the local sender and receiver states, which does not
contradict these two requirements. Yet, upon state exposure, the
sequence numbers reveal the users’ communication patterns, which
intuitively undermines our goal. For this reason, ourUC-based
definition in Section 5.1 specifies which metadata the user states of
an ideal AW protocol should (not) leak. This definition is slightly
more complex than our compact game-based definition.
We note that, when wrapped around an underlying messaging
protocol, only our wrapper avoids and hides metadata in its own
state. However, when our wrapper entirely replaces an underlying
messaging protocol (see below), also the state metadata is fully
protected.

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
Group FA PCA Snd |𝑐|in State PQ Deployed
protocol Snd Rcv Snd Rcv auth. groups obf. ready in
Double Ratchet (DR) [PM16a] ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ WA, Messenger
Post-Quantum DRs [Ste24, DJK+25] ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ iMessage
DR & Header Enc. [PM16a] ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ (✓) Impractical
DR & Sender Keys (SK) [RMS18, BCG23] ✓ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ 1 ✗ (✓) WA, Messenger
DR & Sealed Sender (SS) [Lun18] ✗ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✗ ✗ Signal
DR & SK & SS ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓ n ✗ ✗ Signal
MLS [BBR+23] ✓ (✓) (✓) (✓) (✓) ✓ 1 ✗ ✓ Wire
MLS Metadata Hiding [HKP22] ✓ (✓) (✓) (✓) (✓) ✓ 1 ✗ ✓
MIMIMI [KK25] ✓ (✓) (✓) (✓) (✓) ✓ 1 ✗ ✓
Strongly Anon. RKE [DHRR22] ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗
ASMesh [BRT23] ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓
Anonymity Wrapper (AW) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ 1 ✓ ✓
Authenticated AW (AAW) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 1 ✓ ✓
Table 1: Comparison of messaging protocols for two-party and group chats in composition with methods that hide metadata on
the wire and from local user states. ✓/✗: A protocol has/does not have the property. We distinguish Forward Anonymity (FA)
and Post-Compromise Anonymity (PCA) for sender and receiver state exposure. Here, ✓ ✓means the protocol has immediate
FA/PCA on exposure, ✓ indicates that a key update is required to restore it, and ( ✓) indicates that the given FA/PCA only
partially fulfills our strong anonymity definition. For group chat protocols, we list whether senders are authenticated in the
presence of malicious receivers and we provide the asymptotic communication overhead. Besides our protocols, only one other
hides all relevant metadata in user states. There exist post-quantum secure variants/replacements for all protocols except Sealed
Sender and [ DHRR22] and we list the real-world messengers that use these protocols. Post-quantum readiness of compositions
with the DR is marked with (✓) to denote that post-quantum variants of the DR must be used.
Composition with Messaging Protocols.The strength of our
approach is that an AW protocol can simply be added on top of
existing messaging protocols. Yet, for initializing an AW session
and for updating the user states, algorithms AW.upS and AW.upR
take fresh symmetric keys that are shared between sender and
the receivers from some external source. This source can be an
initial authenticated key exchange protocol (like X3DH [PM16b]
or Noise [Per18, DRS20]) or the wrapped messaging protocol itself;
for this, generic composition has been formally studied in [FG14,
BFWW11, BSJ+17].
Application to Double Ratchet.For example, when applying
our wrapper approach to the Signal two-party Double Ratchet (DR)
algorithm, sender and receiver regularly derive additional keys
from the DR to feed them into the AW update algorithms. As a
result, FS and PCS of the DR are leveraged for FA and PCA of the
AW protocol wrapped around it. Thereby, our protocol is directly
applicable to the two-party chats in WhatsApp, Signal, Facebook
Messenger, iMessage, etc. An evaluation of the resulting perfor-
mance is given in Section 4.2, where we also conduct a comparison
with the Signal Sealed Sender wrapping protocol. By reducing the
ciphertext overhead by a factor of4and the en- and decryption time
by a factor of14, we demonstrate that our results do not only offer
strong security and privacy guarantees but also that the efficiency
is far better than with Sealed Sender.
Replacing Sender Keys.As another example, our AW protocol
can be wrapped around Signal’s Sender Keys [BCG23], which is the
group messaging protocol in WhatsApp, Signal, Facebook’s Messen-
ger, Matrix, etc. We observe that our notion of anonymity already
includes the confidentiality guarantees of Sender Keys, and we add
sender authenticity (see below) to AW, which yields anAuthenti-
catedAnonymity Wrapper (AAW). Overall, AAW offers slightly
stronger security guarantees than Sender Keys and it hides meta-
data with FA and PCA. Thus, one can simply replace Sender Keys in
the listed messengers with our AAW protocol to gain far stronger
privacy for the users. Our performance evaluation in Section 4.2
demonstrates the practicality of our approach and, in comparison
with Signal’s composition of Sender Keys and Sealed Sender, our
AAW protocol is substantially more efficient: recall that the main
drawback of Sealed Sender is thelinearcommunication overhead
because every compact group message is individually public-key-
encrypted to each group member. In contrast, our wrapper only
adds asmall constantcommunication overhead and it is based on
symmetric encryption, such that confidentiality and anonymity can
be achieved even against quantum adversaries.
Roadmap.Our main contribution is formalizing the concept of Ano-
nymity Wrappers (AW) for hiding metadata of generically wrapped
two-party and group messaging protocols. We introduce game-
based definitions of anonymity in Section 3.1 and of symmetric and
sender authenticity in Section 3.2, where the latter yields Authenti-
cated AW (AAW). Next, we present our AW and AAW constructions
in Section 4 and we sketch the proofs that are provided in the ap-
pendix. With the implementation of our construction [Sch25], we
conduct a performance evaluation in Section 4.2. By measuring
computation and communication costs, we demonstrate the practi-
cal deployability of our constructions, and we compare these costs
with the Signal Sealed Sender metadata hiding protocol. Concretely,
our construction substantially outperforms Signal’s current ap-
proach in all dimensions except the receiver state size, which is a
few hundred kilobytes per session. Motivated by this, we develop

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
optimizations for the receiver state in Section 6. In particular, we
propose a Bloom-filter-based compression that decreases the state
size to a few dozen kilobytes in total. Finally, with the UC-based def-
inition in Section 5.1, we propose a formalization that complements
our game-based definitions for meaningfully capturing that local
user states should hide metadata. We currently collaborate with
Signal for implementing and, possibly, deploying AW and AAW in
their messenger.
Anonymity Guarantees in Practice.To clarify the impact of
our results, we discuss anonymity under state corruptions in a
broader sense: when a user’s cryptographic key material is exposed,
a possible scenario is that their whole device was compromised,
including the user’s address book. One could argue that this reveals
the user’s social network and thus makes FA and PCA redundant.
Yet, these anonymity guarantees can still substantially contribute
to the user’s anonymity. That is, users can have an enormous ad-
dress book and communicate with very few of those people and
contacts can be deleted either intentionally or when a user gets
a new device. This means that prior to the exposure and after a
key update, an adversary thus does not learn whether a user was
or is actually in contact with a specific user in their address book.
The anonymity guarantees become even more meaningful when
an app implements features to cryptographically hide contacts and
thus does not reveal them on exposure. For instance, opening a
conversation requires entering a PIN hardened with a system like
Signal’s SecureValueRecovery protocol [Mes25b].
Limitations.As mentioned above, our work is only effective with
further, complementary measures for comprehensive anonymity
and it provokes future research in multiple directions. This includes
anonymous contact discovery and communication initialization,
routing that leverages the guarantees of our constructions for fully
(i.e., not only sender-)anonymous messaging, anonymous session
synchronization in multi-device settings, or plausible anonymity
in the broader messaging app environment, which includes hiding
contacts in the address book. On a rather technical level, our proofs
in the random oracle model could be lifted to the standard model;
in this work, we use the random oracle model to simplify the proofs
for better comprehensibility and compactness. Finally, for broader
applicability, we develop (A)AW as wrapper protocols that need
external input of symmetric keys from (continuous) key exchange
protocols like the DR; for avoiding redundancy, it remains an in-
teresting open problem to modify messaging protocols like the DR
directly for offering anonymity.
1.1 Technical Overview
Initialization and State Updates.The protocol execution be-
tween the sender and one or more receivers begins with executing
algorithms AW.upS and AW.upR, respectively, which take a shared
symmetric input key𝑘0 to establish an internal shared symmetric
chain key ck0,0. Whenever sender and receivers re-run the update
algorithms for PCA on another input key𝑘𝑖, a new epoch𝑖 begins in
which chain key ck𝑖,0 is derived from the mix of𝑘𝑖 and an internal
secret derived from the prior epoch’s initial chain keyck 𝑖−1,0 .
Anonymizing Ciphertexts.To anonymize some input message𝑚—
which can be a plaintext message or a ciphertext with metadata
from the underlying messaging protocol—, the sender takes current
chain key ck𝑖,𝑗−1 to derive a new chain key ck𝑖,𝑗 , a tag𝑡𝑖,𝑗 , and a
message key𝑘𝑖,𝑗 that encrypts𝑚. Using authenticated encryption,
the anonymized ciphertext𝑐𝑖,𝑗 =(enc(𝑘 𝑖,𝑗,𝑚),𝑡 𝑖,𝑗) looks pseudo-
random and, therefore, hides all metadata on the wire. We note
that methods for anonymously routing and forwarding anonymous
ciphertexts from sender to receiver are outside the scope of this
work; by just attaching (and, thereby, leaking) the receiver identity
to the anonymous ciphertext, efficient delivery is facilitated.
Key Computation.While the sender always only has the single
current chain key in their state, the receiver pre-computes multiple
key-tag pairs(𝑘𝑖,𝑗,𝑡𝑖,𝑗) in advance to enable immediate decryption
of ciphertexts that arrive out of order. Since anonymized cipher-
texts look random—even to the receiver—, the pre-computed tags
identify the right key for de-anonymizing incoming ciphertexts.
For this reason, the pre-computed key-tag pairs for all sessions of
the receiver are stored in a single consolidated receiver state.
Receiver State.Conceptually, the so far described AW construc-
tion is similar to the simple design by Bienstock et al. [ BRT23].
However, a weakness of the construction in [BRT23] is that, along
with every pre-computed key-tag pair, the receiver stores the corre-
sponding epoch number (i.e., the number of updates so far) and the
sequence number in that epoch; this is done to delete unnecessarily
pre-computed key-tag pairs during epoch progressions. Upon ad-
versarial state exposure, the revealed epoch and sequence numbers
leak which ciphertexts have (not) been received so far.
To avoid this, our construction maintains three constant sized
lists of pre-computed key-tag pairs: one list forfutureciphertexts
in thecurrentepoch, one list foroldernot yet received ciphertext,
and, potentially, one list for future ciphertexts in thenextepoch. If
needed, the list for older ciphertexts is filled with indistinguishable
dummy entries. Furthermore, when advancing to the next epoch
and, thereby, cleaning key-tag pairs, we use the first unnecessar-
ily pre-computed tag as an implicit pointer for deletion instead of
explicit epoch or sequence numbers. Using this slightly advanced
referencing scheme, which we elaborate on in Section 5, our con-
struction does not leak which ciphertexts have (not) been received
so far.
Sender Authentication.Due to authenticated encryption, our
anonymized ciphertexts are authenticatedsymmetrically. For se-
curely anonymizinggroupmessaging protocols with potentially
malicious receivers, we add sender authentication: the sender can
generate a signature key pair(sk,vk) with every update and the
receiver obtains the corresponding verification key vk upon their
update. When anonymizing a message, the sender signs the anony-
mized ciphertext. To hide the resulting signature𝜎 on the wire, the
sender derives an additional key𝑘otp from the current chain key,
which one-time-pad-encrypts𝜎:𝑐=(𝑐 ∗,𝑡,sign(sk,(𝑐 ∗,𝑡))⊕𝑘 otp).
To ensure that the relation between pre-computed key-tag pairs in
the receiver state remains hidden, the receiver does not store vk
in plain; instead, it stores a randomized commitment of vk with
every key-tag pair:(𝑘𝑖,𝑗,𝑡𝑖,𝑗,comm(𝑟 𝑖,𝑗,vk𝑖)). To verify signatures
on receipt, the sender includes vk in every message that will be

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
anonymized; the receiver then verifies the signature and checks if
the commitment opens tovk.
Recent literature [JKS24, JK25] formalized fine-grained attacker
models against confidentiality and authenticity—but not anonymity—
for thestatelessprimitive Symmetric Signcryption. The construc-
tion idea behind this is that authenticated encryption with a long-
term symmetric key is enriched with and bound to signature-based
authentication with a long-term asymmetric key. In essence, our
statefulAuthenticated AW construction sketched above follows a
similar design approach but adds continuous key updates, which
yields confidentiality, authenticity, as well as anonymity with FS,
FA, PCS, and PCA. A detailed discussion of the differences between
AAW and Symmetric Signcryption is provided in Appendix A.2.
Performance.We implement our construction and evaluate its
performance in Section 4.2 by comparing it to Signal’s current
protocol.
For two-party messaging, our protocol would be wrapped around
the Double Ratchet, whereas Signal currently anonymizes Double
Ratchet ciphertexts with Sealed Sender. Besides the strengthened
anonymity under state exposures, our protocol enhances the com-
munication overhead from441bytes to114bytes per ciphertext,
and it reduces the en- and decryption time from about60µs to4µs.
In groups, the performance gain is even more evident: Signal
currently encrypts group messages using Sender Keys; the resulting
compact ciphertext is wrapped with Sealed Sender to each group
member individually. This yields a total packet size of440 + 68·
𝑛 bytes, where𝑛 is the group size, and an encryption time of1.1ms
for a group of size 𝑛= 100. Our AAW protocol can replace this
entirely, which yields a constant ciphertext size of155bytes and
and a constant encryption time of21µs; decryption time is halved
from61µs to32µs.
The main drawback of our construction is the size of pre-computed
key-tag pairs in the receiver state: for AW, the receiver stores120KB
globally plus288KB per session; for AAW, the latter increases to
480KB per session.
Receiver State Compression.The simplest reduction of space can
be achieved by not storing dummy tag-key pairs in the list for old
not yet received ciphertexts, which only leaks minimal additional
metadata.
For the two remaining lists that contain pre-computed tag-key
pairs for future ciphertexts, we develop a Bloom-filter-based en-
hancement in Section 6. Concretely, instead of storing many tag-key
pairs for the future explicitly, we only store very few of them for
the standard case in which only few ciphertexts are dropped or
re-ordered during delivery. For the bad case in which many cipher-
texts are dropped or re-ordered, the receiver pre-computes the tags
and only stores them implicitly in session-wise Bloom filters. Upon
receipt of a bad-case ciphertext for which the tag-key pair is not
stored explicitly, the receiver searches for the ciphertext’s tag in all
sessions’ Bloom filters; when this is found, the full tag-key pair is
computed explicitly. While this approach only increases the compu-
tation time of the receiver minimally, it reduces the storage size by
a factor14, which yields a construction with practical performance
in all dimensions.
2 Preliminaries
We use[𝑛], where𝑛 is an element of the natural numbers N, as
shorthand for the set{1, 2,...,𝑛} , and(𝑥𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛] as shorthand for the
sequence(𝑥1,𝑥 2,...,𝑥 𝑛). We use𝑥←𝑦 to assign the value𝑦 to the
variable𝑥. We also use this notation to assign multiple values in
one line, e.g.,(𝑥𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛] ← 0𝑛 denotes𝑥1← 0,...,𝑥 𝑛← 0. If𝑌 is
a set, we write 𝑥← $ 𝑌 to denote that the value 𝑥 is randomly
sampled from𝑌 . For a function 𝑓 with (potentially empty) input
(𝑎𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛],𝑛∈N , we write(𝑥𝑗)𝑗∈[𝑚],𝑚∈N ←($) 𝑓((𝑎 𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛]) to indicate
that𝑓 is a deterministic (or probabilistic) function which outputs
values(𝑥𝑗)𝑗∈[𝑚],𝑚∈N . Similarly, we define a function 𝑓 through
𝑓 :𝑉→ ($) 𝑊 , denoting 𝑓 takes as input arguments from𝑉 and
outputs (probabilisticly) a value in𝑊 . To initialize variable𝑥, set𝑉 ,
and dictionary𝐷 with empty values, we write𝑥,𝑉,𝐷[·]←⊥ 3. The
Cartesian product of two sets𝑉,𝑊 is denoted as𝑉×𝑌 , and we use
𝑋
∪
←𝑉 as shorthand for𝑋←𝑋∪𝑉 . We denote bitwise XOR of
two variables by𝑥⊕𝑦.
In security definitions and proofs, we denote the adversary as
A,B,C, etc. Writing (𝑥𝑗)𝑗∈[𝑚] ←($) A((𝑎𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛]) means that
A is executed on some (potentially empty) input (𝑎𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛] and
(probabilisticly) outputs some value(s)(𝑥𝑗)𝑗∈[𝑚] . In security defini-
tions and constructions, we use the keyword “Requirecondition"
to indicate that if theconditionevaluates to false, we immediately
rewind all changes which happened during the function execu-
tion and return⊥. When using a hash functionHwith input 𝑎
which returns multiple values(𝑥1,...,𝑥 𝑛,𝑦 1,...,𝑦 𝑚)← H((𝑎𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛]),
for𝑛,𝑚∈N , where some values 𝑦1,...,𝑦 𝑚 are not required for
further computation, we implicitly discard these values and write
(𝑥1,...,𝑥 𝑛)←H((𝑎 𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛]).
Our constructions use an Authenticated Encryption with Asso-
ciated Data (AEAD) scheme AE=(AE.gen,AE.enc,AE.dec) with
pseudo-random (IND$) and strongly unforgeable ( SUF-CMA) ci-
phertexts, a signature schemeS =( S.gen, S.sgn, S.vfy) with strong
unforgeability (SUF-CMA), and a commitment schemeC =( C.com,
C.vfy) that provides binding and hiding. We use the data structures
linked list (LL) and hash table (HT) with standard interfaces. Fur-
thermore, we use a Counting Bloom Filter (CBF), which is a compact
and efficient representation of a modifiable set with membership
testing: elements can be added to and removed from the set and the
membership of elements in the set can be tested with a configurable
low false positive rate. We provide the full security definitions for
these standard building blocks in Appendix B.
3 Anonymity Wrapper
The concept of anonymity wrappers was introduced informally
by Bienstock et al. [BRT23] and formally, but specially tailored to
MLS-like group messaging protocols, by Hashimoto et al. [HKP22].
We take a step back and propose a generic notion that captures
anonymous wrapping of two-party and group messaging and, as
demonstrated by our construction in Section 4, allows for highly
efficient instantiations. More concretely, we consider an anonymity
wrapper AW to be connected to and wrapped around arbitrary
underlying two-party or group messaging protocols such that the
wrapped messaging traffic sent over the network—and seen by
messaging providers—reveals no metadata. Thereby, we consider
efficient (anonymous) routing of messaging traffic out of scope:

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
senders can either attach the receiver identity to the anonymized
traffic or employ more advanced routing techniques that hide this
information.
Syntax.An anonymity wrapper is a tuple of algorithms AW=
(AW.upS,AW.up R,AW.enc S,AW.dec R) for some sender state space
ST𝑆, update key space K, verification key spaceVK , receiver
state spaceST𝑅, session identity spaceID , message spaceM,
and ciphertext spaceC:
•AW.up S :({⊥}∪ST 𝑆)×K→ $ST𝑆×({⋄}∪VK) Ini-
tializes (with first input⊥) or updates a sender state with
some update key𝑘∈K ; for asymmetric sender authenti-
cation, some verification key vk∈VK can be output and
shared with receivers.
•AW.up R :({⊥}∪ST 𝑅)×ID×K×({⋄}∪VK)→ST 𝑅
Initializes (with first input⊥) or updates the receiver state
for a session locally identified by id∈ ID with some
update key𝑘and, possibly, some verification keyvk.
•AW.enc S :ST𝑆×M→ $ST𝑆×C Anonymizes a pay-
load message𝑚∈M.
•AW.dec R :ST𝑅×C→ST 𝑅×ID×M De-anonymizes
a ciphertext𝑐∈Cby extracting message𝑚in sessionid.
Consolidated Receiver State.Each sender uses an individual state
stS ∈ ST𝑆 for every session in which they communicate as a
sender, where the number of receivers per session is unbounded.
Whenever the sender wants to send in a session via AW.encS, the
respective sender state is selected and used by the higher level
application. Receivers, in contrast, cannot know in advance to which
session a received ciphertext belongs, since ciphertexts hide this
information; thus, receivers cannot select the matching individual
receiver statebeforeprocessing a ciphertext with AW.decR. For this
reason, receivers store the information for all the sessions in which
they receive in a single, consolidated receiver statestR∈ST 𝑅. This
means that, in our single-device setting, every user has one sender
state for each of their sessions and a single consolidated receiver
state for all of their sessions.
Session Identifier.To update the key material of a session, the
sender can just take the corresponding sender state stS together
with an update key𝑘𝑖 via(stS,vk)← $ AW.upS(stS,𝑘𝑖). In contrast,
since the receiver maintains a consolidated state stR for all its re-
ceiver sessions, updates of a particular session in that state need
to be addressed with identifier id via stR←AW.up R(stR,id,𝑘 𝑖,vk) .
This identifier is only used and specified locally by each receiver in-
dividually. Therefore, different receivers of the same session can use
different identifiers for that session. For authentication, algorithm
AW.decR outputs the identifier of the session in which a ciphertext
was received.
Update Keys.Sender and receiver(s) of a session use the same
initial key𝑘0 to initiate a session and, thereafter, keys𝑘𝑖 to continu-
ously update their session state. Each fresh key starts a newepoch
in the session, which allows for forward and post-compromise ano-
nymity. The source of the initial key and of update keys can be
some external key exchange or the underlying messaging proto-
col itself. For example, when the AW wraps traffic of a two-party
Double Ratchet session, sender and receiver can derive symmetric
keys𝑘𝑖 from internal DR root-key updates that they then feed into
the updates of the AW session. In contrast, for anonymizing group
chats that are based on Signal’s Sender Keys, our AW protocol
can essentially replace Sender Keys, which avoids redundancy and
strengthens security. Thereby, the update keys are always randomly
sampled and distributed from the sender to each receiver via their
existing pairwise channels (see [BCG23]).
Verification Keys.In a multi-receiver session for a group chat, it
can be desirable that authenticity of sent ciphertexts is maintained
even if some of the session’s receivers act maliciously. For this, we
let the sender’s update algorithm possibly output asymmetric veri-
fication keys; these keys belong to signing keys that are internally
held in the sender’s updated state. During receiver updates, these
verification keys can be included in the receiver state such that,
upon decryption, the authenticity of incoming ciphertexts can be
verified. We call this variantAuthenticatedAW (AAW). (In state-
less communication, similar concepts, yet without anonymity, have
been studied under the term Symmetric Signcryption [JKS24, JK25];
we elaborate on this in Appendix A.2.) For single-receiver sessions,
this feature can be undesirable; thus, senders and receivers output
and input symbol⋄in this standard AW case instead.
Out-of-order Receipt.Modern messaging protocols like the Dou-
ble Ratchet Algorithm [ PM16a] for two-party chats or Signal’s
Sender Key Mechanism [BCG23] for group chats offer so-calledIm-
mediate Decryption. This means that, even if ciphertexts are received
out of order, their encrypted payload messages can be decrypted
immediately. For practicality, both mentioned real-world protocols
limit the out-of-order tolerance with parameters past and fut1
such that at most past ciphertexts older than the newest decrypted
one can be decrypted, and at most fut− 1omitted ciphertexts after
the newest decrypted one are tolerated for successful decryption of
a newer one. We follow the same approach and parameterize our
definitions with these two constants: for correctness, we require
that ciphertexts in the current receivable window that is defined
by(past,fut) must be decryptable, and for security we require
that corruptions of receiver secrets do not affect the anonymity
of ciphertext outside the current receivable window. Thus, proto-
cols with different levels of tolerance for unreliable delivery can be
analyzed with our parameterizable definitions.
Correctness.Intuitively, an (Authenticated) Anonymity Wrapper
is correct if the decrypted message(stR,id,𝒎)←AW.dec R(stR,𝑐)
of a received ciphertext𝑐 equals the message encrypted in that sent
ciphertext𝑐← $ AW.encS(stS,𝒎) and the receiver’s local identi-
fieridbelongs to the matching session as long as: (a) out-of-order
delivery did not exceed the tolerance parameters(past,fut) and
(b) sender and receiver continuously updated their states com-
patibly with equal input keys 𝑘𝑖 and honestly forwarded veri-
fication keys vk𝑖 via(stS,vk𝑖) ←$ AW.upS(stS,𝑘𝑖) and stR ←
AW.upR(stR,id,𝑘 𝑖,vk𝑖), respectively.
Formally, this is captured by game CORR in Appendix A.1, Fig-
ure 4 for which we require that Pr[CORR AW,past,fut(A)= 1]= 0
for all adversariesA.
1past= 2, 000and fut= 25, 000in lines 8 and 9 in https://github.com/signalapp/lib
signal/blob/525e8bce0c84576014268ab5b3982612b765f598/rust/protocol/src/consts.rs

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
3.1 Game-based Anonymity
To model anonymity, we define game IND𝑏
AW,past,fut with chal-
lenge bit 𝑏∈ { 0, 1} in Figure 1 that is parameterized with the
receivable window via (past,fut) and proceeds in two phases:
Initially, adversaryA specifies the number of receivers𝑛∈N in
thechallenge sessionwith the single sender as well as the local
identifiers id∗
𝑖 with which each receiver𝑖∈[𝑛] refers to that joint
challenge session (see line 00). The adversary acts as the senders
for all remaining non-challenge sessions with each receiver. Since
all fresh input update keys are sampled uniformly at random, a
standard hybrid argument proves that this single-sender, single-
session game generalizes to multi-user, multi-session security; for
this, note that (A)AW does not use or rely on any long-term key
material that would be shared between sessions. Moreover, existing
literature [BFWW11, FG14, BSJ+17] covers generic composition
with (continuous) key exchange protocols that provide the fresh,
independent update keys.
After this challenge session initialization step, A is invoked
with its ephemeral state𝜔 to continue with querying the following
oracles:
•Up S(𝑘) : updates the sender state with key 𝑘 or, if input
𝑘=⊥ , with a randomly sampled key (line 12); if 𝑘≠⊥
and this is either the initial epoch or the previous epoch
was markedtrivially de-anonymized(see below), this new
epoch is markedtrivially de-anonymized, too (lines 10-11).
Variables. epS: sender’s current epoch;𝑠: send operations in that
epoch;𝑋: de-anonymized send operations due to ex posures;
𝐾: sender’s update keys;VK: sender’s v erification keys.
•Up R(𝑖,id,𝑘,vk) : updates session id in the state of receiver𝑖
with verification keyvk and key𝑘 or, for empty input𝑘=⊥
inchallenge session id=id ∗
𝑖 , key𝑘 is synchronized with the
sender by taking their update key from this epoch (line 27);
if the keys of the sender and receiver𝑖 are not synchronized,
𝑖is markedout of sync(lines 25-26).
Variables.𝑛: number of possible receivers in challenge session;
id∗
𝑖 : receiver𝑖’s localidentifier for challenge session;epR𝑖: receiver𝑖’s
current epoch in challenge session; oos𝑖: epoch in which receiver𝑖
went out of sync in challenge session.
•Enc(𝑚,ch) : anonymizes message𝑚 and outputs resulting
real ciphertext𝑐 or, if ch= 1and 𝑏= 1, a random challenge
ciphertext𝑐∗←$Cinstead (lines 33-34).
Variables. RC: real ciphertexts; CC: output challenge ciphertexts
(real or random);CH: ch allenges.
•Dec(𝑖,𝑐) : de-anonymizes ciphertext𝑐 and outputs identi-
fier id and message𝑚; if𝑐 was a random challenge cipher-
text output by Enc, the underlying hidden real ciphertext
is de-anonymized instead (line 38). If𝑐 is consideredreceiv-
ablebased on parameters(past,fut) , it is marked received
(lines 40-41).Variable. 𝑅𝑖: ciphertexts received by𝑖.
•Expose S: outputs sender state stS and marks all subsequent
ciphertexts in the current epochtrivially de-anonymized.
•Expose R(𝑖): outputs state stR𝑖 of receiver𝑖 and marks all
ciphertexts in the current or prior epochstrivially de-anony-
mizedthat were both not yet received by𝑖 and sent before𝑖
was markedout of sync.
The adversary terminates with a guess𝑏′ and wins if𝑏=𝑏 ′, unless
a challenge query to oracle Enc(𝑚,ch= 1) was markedtrivially de-
anonymized. Based on this, we define the advantage of adversaryA
asAdv ind
AW(A)=|Pr[IND 0
AW(A)=1]−Pr[IND 1
AW(A)=1]|.
GameIND𝑏
AW,past,fut(A)
00(𝜔,𝑛,(id ∗
𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])← $A()
01(ep S,(ep R𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])←0 1+𝑛
02(𝑠,(oos 𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])←∞ 1+𝑛
03(𝐾[·],VK[·],RC[·],CC[·])←⊥ 4
04((𝑅 𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛] ,𝑋,CH)←∅ 2+𝑛
05(st S,(st R𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])←⊥ 1+𝑛
06𝑏 ′←$A(𝜔)
07·RequireCH∩𝑋=∅
08Stop with𝑏 ′
OracleUp S(𝑘)
09Require𝑘∈K∪{⊥}
10·If𝑘≠⊥∧(ep S =0∨(ep S,𝑠)∈𝑋):
11·𝑋
∪
←{(ep S+1,𝑠 ′)|𝑠 ′∈N}
12If𝑘=⊥:𝑘← $K
13ep S←ep S+1;𝑠←0
14(st S,vk)← $ AW.upS(stS,𝑘)
15𝐾[ep S]←𝑘;VK[ep S]←vk
16Returnvk
OracleExpose S
17·𝑋
∪
←{(ep S,𝑠′)|𝑠 ′ >𝑠}
18Returnst S
OracleExpose R(𝑖)
19·𝑋
∪
←{(ep ′,𝑠′)∉𝑅 𝑖|
ep′≤min(ep R𝑖,oos𝑖−1)}
20Returnst R𝑖
OracleUp R(𝑖,id,𝑘,vk)
21Require𝑖∈[𝑛]∧𝑘∈K∪{⊥}
22Ifid=id ∗
𝑖∧ep R𝑖 <oos 𝑖:
23Require𝐾[ep R𝑖+1]≠⊥
24ep R𝑖←ep R𝑖+1
25·If𝑘∉{𝐾[ep R𝑖],⊥}
∨vk≠VK[ep R𝑖]≠⋄:
26·oos 𝑖←min(ep R𝑖,oos𝑖)
27Else ifep R𝑖 <oos 𝑖:𝑘←𝐾[ep R𝑖]
28st R𝑖←AW.up R(stR𝑖,id,𝑘,vk)
29Return
OracleEnc(𝑚,ch)
30Require𝑠<∞
31(st S,𝑐)← $ AW.encS(stS,𝑚)
32𝑠←𝑠+1;RC[ep S,𝑠]←𝑐;𝑐 ∗←𝑐
33·Ifch:
34·If𝑏=1:𝑐 ∗←$C
35·CH
∪
←{(ep S,𝑠)}
36CC[𝑐 ∗]←𝑐
37Return𝑐 ∗
OracleDec(𝑖,𝑐)
38IfCC[𝑐]≠⊥:𝑐←CC[𝑐]
39(st R𝑖,id,𝑚)←AW.dec R(stR𝑖,𝑐)
40·If∃(ep ′,𝑠′)∈Rcvbl(𝑅 𝑖,RC,ep R𝑖,past,
fut):RC[ep ′,𝑠′]=𝑐∧ep R𝑖 <oos 𝑖:
41·𝑅 𝑖
∪
←{(ep ′,𝑠′)}
42Return(id,𝑚)
Figure 1: Multi-receiver games IND for A W scheme AW.
Helper Procedure Rcvbl is provided in Figure 4. Teal code
is only relevant for AA W with sender authentication.
Intuitive Security Requirements.The game described above in-
tuitively capturesForward AnonymityandPost-Compromise Ano-
nymity: every ciphertext 𝑐 must look random, unless the sender
state was exposed in the current epoch before𝑐 was sent or a re-
ceiver state in the current (or later) epoch was exposed before 𝑐
was received. Ciphertexts sent and received before an exposure
or in earlier or later epochs are required to remain anonymous.
Furthermore, we require that differing update keys between sender
and receiver drive the parties out of sync such that subsequent
receiver exposures become harmless.
Limitations of Definition.While the above definition requires
that ciphertexts on the wire look random, it does not require that
metadata in the local sender and receiver states are avoided or
hidden. Concretely, an example construction with pseudo-random
ciphertexts would be secure with respect to the game in Figure 1
even if a receiver stores a list of sequence numbers and timestamps
for all their received ciphertexts in each of their sessions in their
local state. Thus, an adversary who exposes this state learns the
receiver’s social network as well as the communication patterns
therein. Since we aim for anonymity under state exposures, we de-
velop a complementary, slightly more complex UC-based definition
in Section 5 that captures that metadata is also avoided or hidden

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
in sender and receiver states. Our construction in Section 4 takes
both definitions into account.
We see it as an advantage that we have two complementary
definitions for a broad sense of anonymity. While we do not see a
clean approach for extending our game-based definition to capture
metadata hiding in the user state2, our special UC-based definition
is already very sophisticated and complex. Thus, the above compact
game captures the core requirements of AW protocols and our UC-
based definition can be viewed as a meaningful extension.
3.2 Game-based Authenticity
Besides anonymity, we require that an Anonymity Wrapper (AW)
offers authenticity. The basic requirement is that decryption only
succeeds for honestly sent ciphertexts, unless a state exposure of
either of the session membersallows for a trivial ciphertext forgery.
With stronger sender authenticity for anAuthenticatedAnony-
mity Wrapper (AAW), we require that decryption only succeeds
for honestly sent ciphertexts, even if any of the session’s receiver
states were ever exposed; thus, with this second notion, only state
exposures ofthe senderallow for trivial ciphertext forgeries.
More concretely, we define game AUTHAW,past,fut that, again,
proceeds in two phases: initially, adversaryA specifies the number
of receivers𝑛∈N in thechallenge sessionwith the single sender
as well as the local identifiers id∗
𝑖 with which each receiver𝑖∈[𝑛]
refers to that joint challenge session. After this initial step,A can
query the following oracles; we use the termsreceivableas well as
symmetricallyandasymmetrically insecureresp.ineffective, which
we will elaborate on below:
•Up S(𝑘) : updates the sender state with key 𝑘 or, if input
𝑘=⊥ , with a randomly sampled key; if𝑘≠⊥ , this update
is markedsymmetrically ineffective.
•Up R(𝑖,id,𝑘,vk) : updates session id in the state of receiver𝑖
with verification keyvk and key𝑘 or, for empty input𝑘=⊥
inchallenge session id=id ∗
𝑖 , key𝑘 is synchronized with
the sender by taking their update key from this epoch; if
the keys of sender and receiver 𝑖 are not synchronized,
𝑖 is markedout of sync; moreover, for AAW, this epoch is
markedasymmetrically insecureif the input vk was not
honestly forwarded from the corresponding sender update.
•Enc(𝑚) : anonymizes message𝑚 and outputs resulting ci-
phertext𝑐.
•Dec(𝑖,𝑐) : de-anonymizes ciphertext𝑐 and outputs resulting
identifier id and message𝑚; if𝑐 is successfully decrypted in
the challenge session id∗
𝑖 , but𝑐 is not consideredreceivable
therein (because it was either received already or never
honestly sent) while all receivable ciphertexts are marked
symmetrically secureor, for AAW,asymmetrically secure,
the adversary wins due to this non-trivial ciphertext forgery
of𝑐.
•Expose S: outputs sender state stS and marks all subsequent
ciphertexts in the current epochsymmetrically insecure;
moreover, for AAW, this epoch is markedasymmetrically
insecure.
2In their Appendix B.2, Bienstock et al. [BRT23] provide a convincing explanation for
this.
•Expose R(𝑖): outputs state stR𝑖 of receiver𝑖 and marks all
ciphertexts in the current or prior epochssymmetrically
insecurethat were not yet received by𝑖.
Receivable and Synchronicity.Ciphertexts are markedreceivable
if they are covered by the out-of-order tolerance window, which
is specified by parameters (past,fut) . A ciphertext that is not
considered receivable should not be decrypted successfully, unless
some (not yet received) receivable ciphertexts are markedinsecure;
in the latter case, a ciphertext forgery is trivial.
Symmetrically Insecure and Ineffective.A ciphertext is marked
symmetrically insecureif it is receivable by the receiver state when
the latter is exposed, or if it is sent after the sender was exposed in
the same epoch. Symmetric insecurity is inherited to a subsequent
epoch if the next sender update takes a key that was chosen by the
adversary; such an update is calledsymmetrically ineffective.
Asymmetrically Insecure.With sender authentication in AAW,
epochs are markedasymmetrically insecureif the sender was ex-
posed therein or if the update of the respective receiver was con-
ducted with an adversarially chosen verification key.
Based on winning the game by querying oracle Dec with a non-
trivial ciphertext forgery, we define the advantage of adversaryA
as Advauth
AW(A)=Pr[AUTH AW(A)= 1]. For space reasons, the
pseudo-code specification of game AUTHAW is deferred to Appen-
dix A.2, Figure 5.
4 Construction
The goal of the construction is to create anonymous ciphertexts and
reduce metadata in sender and receiver states. For the ciphertext
processing, we adapt the construction from Bienstock et al. [BRT23]
from two-party communication in mesh networks to generic group
chats. As the state structure in [BRT23] and other existing protocols,
such as [PM16a], leak information about past communication, we
present a state structure which improves state anonymity. In the
following, we first describe the contruction’s message and cipher-
text processing and sketch out how our construction satisfies the
anonymity and authenticity definitions (the full proofs are in Sec-
tion C). Then, we present the state management. We show a formal
definition of state anonymity in Section 5.1. The full pseudocode
of our construction is in Figure 2 and an illustration explaining
receiver state operations is in Figure 3.
Message Flow and Ciphertext Processing.The general idea is that
sender and receiver(s) initialize their states with a shared key𝑘 to
derive message keys and tags. After a sender encrypts a message,
they attach the tag and send it to the (one or more) receivers who
find the corresponding decryption key in their states through the
tag. Since all parties now share a symmetric key, each receiver could
thus impersonate the sender. To prevent this, the AAW construction
allows the sender to additionally generate a signing key pair(sk,vk)
and distributevkto all receivers.
In more detail, the protocol is as follows. When Alice wants
to send a message to the group, she first updates her state with a
shared key𝑘 to initiate a new epoch. In case Alice wants to sign her
ciphertexts, she generates a new signing key pair(sk,vk) (line 04).

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
ProcAW.up S(st,𝑘)
00Ifst=⊥:tag end,vk prv←⊥ 2,uk←★
01Else:
02(tag end,ck,uk,sk,vk,vk prv)←st
03tag end←H 1(ck),vk prv←vk
04(sk,vk)← $ S.gen()
05(ck,uk)←H 2(𝑘,uk,vk)
06Returnst=(tag end,ck,uk,sk,vk,vk prv),vk
ProcAW.up R(st=(ht,ST),id,𝑘,vk)
07Ifst=⊥:ST[·]←⊥,ht←HT.init()
08IfST[id]=⊥:
09𝐿 prv,𝐿 now,𝐿 nxt←LL.init() 3
10ck now,ck nxt,uk←⊥,⊥,★
11For all𝑖: 0≤𝑖<past:
12insertDummy new(𝐿prv,ht,vk)
13For all𝑖: 0≤𝑖<fut:
14insertDummy new(𝐿now,ht,vk)
15Else:
16(ck now,ck nxt,uk,𝐿 prv,𝐿 now,𝐿 nxt)←ST[id]
17Requireck nxt =⊥
18(ck nxt,uk nxt)←H 2(𝑘,uk,𝑣𝑘)
19For all𝑖: 0≤𝑖<fut:// pre-compute next epoch
20addEntry new(𝐿nxt,ht,ck nxt,vk)
21ST[id]←(ck now,ck nxt,uk nxt,𝐿 prv,𝐿 now,𝐿 nxt)
22Returnst=(ht,ST)
ProcAW.enc S(st=((tag end,ck,uk,sk,vk,vk prv),m)
23(ck,mk,tag,r,r b)←H 1(ck)
24𝑐 ′←$ AE.enc(mk,(tag end,m,vk,r,vk prv),tag)
25𝜎← $ S.sgn(sk,(tag,𝑐 ′))
26Return(st=(tag end,ck,uk),𝑐=(tag,𝑐 ′,𝜎⊕r b))
ProcaddEntry pos(𝐿,ht,ck,vk)
27(ck,mk,tag,r,r 𝑏)←H 1(ck)// updatesck
28cm←C.com(vk;r)
29ptr←𝐿.push pos(mk,tag,cm,r 𝑏)
30ht.add({tag:ptr})
ProcAW.dec R(st=(ht,ST),𝑐=(tag,𝑐 ′,𝜎′))
31ptr←ht.acc(tag)
32Requireptr≠⊥
33(id,mk,cm,r b)←ptr.getData()
34(ck now,ck nxt,uk,𝐿 prv,𝐿 now,𝐿 nxt)←ST[id]
35(tag end,m,vk,r,vk prv)←AE.dec(mk,𝑐 ′,tag)
36Require(tag end,m)≠⊥
37Require(C.vfy(vk,cm,r)
38∧S.vfy(vk,(tag,𝑐 ′),𝜎′⊕r b))=tru
39Ifptr∈𝐿 nxt:// initiate next epoch
40ptr end←ht.acc(tag end)
41Ifptr end =⊥∧tag end ≠⊥:// compute remaining tags
42tag ′←H 1(cknow)// peek next tag
43Whiletag ′ ≠tag end:
44addEntry new(𝐿now,ht,ck now,vk prv)// updatesck now
45tag ′←H 1(cknow)
46Else iftag end ≠★:// remove unnecessary tags
47𝑖 end←𝐿 now.index(ptr end)
48𝐿 now.crop(ht,until=𝑖 end)// keep oldest
49𝐿 prv←(𝐿 prv,𝐿 now),𝐿 now←𝐿 nxt,𝐿 nxt←[]
50ck now←ck nxt,ck nxt←⊥
51Ifptr∈𝐿 now:
52ptr nxt←𝐿 now.popold()
53addEntry new(𝐿now,ht,ck now,vk)
54Whileptr nxt.getTag()≠tag:// untiltag, move entries
55𝐿 prv.pushnew(ptr nxt)from𝐿 now to𝐿 prv
56addEntry new(𝐿now,ht,ck now,vk)
57ptr nxt←𝐿 now.popold()
58ht.rem(ptr nxt)
59𝐿 prv.crop(ht,from=𝐿 prv.len()−past)// keep newest
60Else://ptr∈𝐿 prv
61𝐿 prv.rem(ptr),ht.rem(tag)
62insertDummy old(𝐿prv,ht)
63ST[id]←(ck now,ck nxt,uk,𝐿 prv,𝐿 now,𝐿 nxt)
64Return(st=(ht,ST),m)
ProcinsertDummy pos(𝐿,ht)
65(tag,mk,cm,r 𝑏)← $T×K×CM ×R 𝑏
66ptr←𝐿.push pos(mk,tag,cm,r 𝑏)
67ht.add({tag:ptr})
Figure 2: Construction for A W schemeAW. Teal code is only relevant for AA W with sender authentication.
She uses the input𝑘, the update key uk from her state, and poten-
tially the verification key vk, as input to a KDF to obtain the initial
chain key ck and the update key for the next epoch (line 05). Simi-
larly, the receiver(s) update their state with𝑘, and potentially vk,
and derive the epoch’s initial chain key ck and the next epoch’s
update key uk (line 18). They use ck to pre-compute fut tags and
key material for processing future ciphertexts sent by Alice (lines 19
and 20). Note that using the secret update key uk as input to the
KDF ensures that, even if an adversary chooses the input key𝑘 for
an update to a new epoch, they do not control the full key material
in that new epoch, unless they also know uk from the prior epoch.
Moreover, uk ensures that it does not go unnoticed when the re-
ceiver state is updated with different key material than the sender:
After this point, the receiver will not be able to correctly decrypt
any ciphertexts from the sender since the receiver key material
diverges irrecoverably from the sender’s as soon as the state update
uses a dishonest𝑘(orvk).
To send a message, Alice usesck to derive message keymk (line 23)
which she uses for encrypting the message into a ciphertext (line 24),
and corresponding tag, which she attaches to the ciphertext. If she
signs the ciphertext, she additionally derives a blinding value 𝑟𝑏
to encrypt the signature𝜎 (line 26), such that an observer cannot
use the plain signature to identify the sender of that ciphertext.
Since we only want to hide the signature, our construction uses an
efficient one-time-pad-like approach which works with arbitrary
signature schemes. Once Bob receives the ciphertext, he uses the
tag to look up the corresponding mk (and blinding value for the
signature) (lines 31 to 34). We note that Bob is able to immediately
decrypt out-of-order ciphertexts since he pre-computes the next
futkeys and retains up topastskipped keys.
Forward and Post-Compromise Anonymity.Our construction of-
fers immediate forward security since both sender and receivers
use a key for en-, respectively decrypting, one message and delete
it after use. Moreover, the keys do not hold any information about
previous keys. Since the security of the states may be restored
through an update with fresh key material, our construction offers
post-compromise security. Additionally, even if the adversary de-
termines the key given to the update function, the derived chain
key is not compromised since the KDF takes as second input the
secret update keyuk.

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
Theorem (Informal) 4.1.Taking a secure AEAD scheme AE and
random oraclesH 1, H2, the A W construction in𝐹𝑖𝑔𝑢𝑟𝑒 2fulfills the
anonymity definitionIND AW,past,fut from Figure 1.
Proof Sketch for Ciphertext Anonymity.Informally, a ciphertext
produced by a sender is anonymous because the tag looks random
and the anonymity of the encrypted message can be reduced to the
IND$security of the AEAD scheme. Remaining advantages for an
adversary to break anonymity can occur if there are collisions in the
KDF, which we model as a random oracle, that are negligible events
when the tag and key space is large enough. Moreover, if the sender
attaches a signature in plain, an observer who has the per-epoch
verification key could check the signature to determine which epoch
a ciphertext belongs to. Since we blind the signature with a random
value, this functions as a one-time-pad and the signature thus looks
anonymous. We show the full proof in Section C.1.
Theorem (Informal) 4.2.Taking secure AEAD scheme AE, com-
mitment schemeC, signature schemeS, and random oraclesH 1, H2,
the A W construction in𝐹𝑖𝑔𝑢𝑟𝑒 2fulfills the authenticity definition
AUTHAW,past,fut from Figure 5.
Proof Sketch for Ciphertext Authenticity.Ciphertexts from the
construction are authentic since only the communicating parties
know the shared key and the AEAD scheme offers ciphertext un-
forgeability. Additionally, the AAW construction provides authen-
ticity even when a receiver is exposed who holds the symmetric key
material. In this case, the sender’s signing key remains secret and
the authenticity guarantees can be reduced to the unforgeability of
the signature scheme. The full proof for AUTHAW is in Section C.2.
State Management.As described in Section 3, the sender Alice
knows which session she is communicating with and, for that
session, she needs to hold only key material for the next encryption
in the state. On the other hand, the receiver Bob does not know
to which session an incoming ciphertext belongs and thus has a
consolidated state over all sessions. This state holds pre-computed
tags and keys for immediate decryption of out-of-order ciphertexts.
In case Bob pre-computed unnecessary keys which will never be
used by Alice, he should be able to delete these to avoid the memory
from growing too much. A straight-forward solution would be to
index each key with a message number (e.g., as in [PM16a, BRT23])
and delete key material based on the index. However, such a state
structure leaks which ciphertexts were (not) received since the
respective index would (not) be missing from the state. In our
construction, we thus refrain from using explicit indices and instead
use ordered lists to store only the order in which keys were derived.
When a receiver uses key material, they delete the entry from the
list, and, since tags and keys look random, this construction does
not leak which entries are missing, i.e., which ciphertexts were
(not) received.
We could use one consolidated ordered list and, after a state
update, append the new keys to the existing list. However, this
approach is impractical: Once the receiver appended keys from the
new epoch, the list alone would not suffice to let the receiver know
which keys belong to the previous epoch and can be deleted. To
solve this without storing any additional data, we create three sep-
arate lists such that the receiver is able to handle pre-computation
and deletion of keys. First, the receiver stores one list (𝐿now) which
: dummy
tag ptr
a3e 0x..
yxw 0x..
tt6 0x..
… …
LnowLprv Lnxt
id1
id2
id3
id4
Receiver state
1) AW.decR, tag ∈ Lnow
2) AW.upR
3) AW.decR, tag ∈ Lnxt
4) AW.decR, tag ∈ Lprv
: new: moves list: delete: tag
Lprv Lnow Lprv Lnow Lnxt
tagend
Figure 3: Illustration of the receiver state of our construction
from Figure 2. A detailed description is in Section 4.
holds the fut pre-computed for the current epoch. When a cipher-
text arrives (Figure 3, (1)) and the receiver uses a pre-computed
key mk𝑖 (line 51), the key mk𝑖+1, which is next in the list (line 54),
moves to the beginning of the list, and we pre-compute the nec-
essary keys such that the list has again fut keys (lines 52 to 58).
If keys from𝐿now are skipped, the receiver keeps them in state to
allow for delayed ciphertexts (line 55). For that, the keys move (in
order) to the list𝐿prv, potentially evicting older keys (line 59), as𝐿prv
has the capacity to store past entries. When the receiver updates
their state with fresh key material, they fill a new list𝐿nxt with fut
pre-computed keys for the next epoch (lines 19 and 20; Figure 3, (2)).
Then, when the sender sends a ciphertext in this new epoch (i.e.,
the receiver’s list𝐿nxt; Figure 3, (3)), they tell the receiver the tag
after the last key they used for the previous epoch (tagend, line 03).
The receiver learns that any list entries after (including) tagend will
not be needed and they delete the excess entries (lines 46 to 48) or
pre-computes necessary tags until tagend (lines 41 to 45). To finalize
the state update, the receiver first moves all keys which are older
than just used key to𝐿prv and then moves the fut pre-computed
keys for the new epoch from𝐿 nxt to𝐿 now.
Additionally, to reduce metadata leakage through list sizes, we
enforce constant size for the lists of the receiver. Specifically,𝐿now
and (potentially)𝐿nxt always hold fut pre-computed entries. To
keep the list𝐿prv, which has key material of delayed ciphertexts, of
constant size past, we use dummies: When initializing the receiver
state, we fill 𝐿prv with past dummies (lines 11 and 12) and 𝐿now
with fut dummies (lines 13 and 14; cf. Figure 3, (1)), and whenever
we delete an entry from𝐿prv after decrypting a ciphertext, we fill it
up with a dummy (line 62; Figure 3, (4)).
Through the lists, we eliminate explicit connections between a
stored key and the epoch it was derived in. However, when using
AAW, the receiver needs a verification keyvk to verify the signa-
ture. Storing vk linked to each message key would reveal which
epoch a message key belongs to. It is also not an option to only
send vk to the receiver because then, a corruption of the message

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
key would allow an adversary to send a dishonest vk. Thus, the re-
ceiver instead hides vk by pre-computing and storing commitments
to vk (line 28), where the commitment scheme can be efficiently
instantiated by a hash function. That is, for a state update, the
receiver obtains vk and additionally derives random openings 𝑟
from the chain key which they use to create commitments to the
verification key. The receiver then discards the openings and the
verification key. The sender derives the same𝑟 from the chain key
and sends (vk,𝑟) to the receiver (line 24) who then checks if the
commitment matches (vk,𝑟) (line 37). Then, the receiver immedi-
ately uses the obtained vk to pre-compute the commitments for
upcoming decryptions (lines 44, 53 and 56).
A W for Dynamic Groups.Our construction readily extends to
dynamic groups. That is, to add a user to the group, the sender
takes their current key material and sends it to the user (we provide
the construction of this function in the Appendix, Figure 12). The
added user then cannot read any prior communication since they
have only the keys for future communication. To remove a user
from a group, the senders perform a key update without sending
the fresh key material to the removed user.
4.1 Generic Wrapper vs. Direct Replacement
AW requires external fresh key material to use as initial chain keys.
These keys can be agreed upon by an underlying messaging proto-
col itself or by some external protocol, enabling AW to operate in
two distinct modes: as a generic wrapper around existing protocols
or as a direct messaging protocol.
Direct Replacement.When AW update keys are distributed via
external mechanisms, AW can directly encrypt plaintext messages
to directly provide a secure messaging protocol. For example, AAW
update keys can be distributed over a pre-existing secure channel,
just as the Sender Key protocol distributes the sender’s key material
via secure two-party channels. Group members can then use AAW
to directly encrypt and decrypt messages yielding a protocol with
security properties similar to Sender Key plus FA and PCA.
Generic Wrapper.Many existing messaging protocols already
perform Continuous Key Agreement that can serve as a source of
AW update keys. For instance, when combining AW and DR, one can
extend DR’s internal KDF—which derives a new root key and chain
key in each epoch from the current root key and a Diffie-Hellman
key—to also output an update key for AW. Similarly, post-quantum
secure ratchet protocols [Ste24, DJK+25] can produce AW update
keys with both DH-based and post-quantum security guarantees.
This approach requires updating the interface of secure messag-
ing protocols to optionally return sending and receiving update
keys, but the modification is straightforward. Since AW and AAW
are generic constructions, their state updates do not need to have
the same frequency as the key updates of the underlying wrapped
messaging protocol. Given that AW updates are more expensive
than regular message encryption, one can develop policies to use
only selected update keys and amortize the computational costs
over multiple messages. In the particular composition with DR,
we acknowledge that AW and the symmetric chain in DR have
similar structures, but we expect the improvement from remov-
ing redundancy to be relatively modest. This optimization, along
with determining optimal update frequencies, presents interest-
ing directions for future work and deployment in applications like
Signal.
4.2 Performance
To evaluate the concrete performance of AW and AAW, we imple-
mented both as generic wrappers in Rust as an addition to Signal’s
official libsignal_protocol crate [Mes25a] and make the implementa-
tion available at [Sch25]. We evaluated AW wrapping both Double
Ratchet and Sender Keys messages and evaluated AAW wrapping
plaintext messages directly, where the update keys input to AW
and AAW, respectively, were sampled uniformly at random. A full
integration with DR or other messaging protocols, as described in
Section 4.1, remains a task for deployment in practice.
AW and AAW were instantiated using 16 byte tags, using HKDF
[KE10] for random oracles, and using AES-256-GCM [MV04] for
authenticated encryption. For AAW, commitments were 32 bytes of
HKDF output and EdDSA [JL17] with the curve Ed25519 [LHT16]
was used for signing.
All measurements of Double Ratchet, Sender Keys, and Sealed
Sender were performed using Signal’s production implementation
in libsignal, and timing data was collected using libsignal’s bench-
marking framework. Experiments were performed on a 32 core
Intel®Core™i9-14900K processor.
Communication Cost.Table 2 shows the size of encrypted mes-
sages for Signal’s deployed implementations of group and 1:1 mes-
saging alongside AW and AAW based alternatives. AW yields sig-
nificantly smaller messages for all group sizes and since Signal’s
Sealed Sender scales linearly in the size of the group, the difference
for large groups is dramatic.
Message Size (bytes)
Group SK 109
AW(SK) 157
AAW 155
SS(SK) 440+68·group_size
1:1 DR 66
AW(DR) 114
SS(DR) 441
Table 2: Size of group and 1:1 messages sent using Signal’s
deployed techniques—Sender Keys, Sealed Sender, and Dou-
ble Ratchet—compared with alternatives using AW and AAW.
AW(SK) and AW(DR) denote AW wrapping Sender Keys and
Double Ratchet messages respectively. SS(SK) and SS(DR)
denote Sealed Sender wrapping Sender Keys and Double
Ratchet messages respectively.
Computation Cost.Table 3 shows the mean time to encrypt and
decrypt messages in microseconds for Signal’s deployed implemen-
tations of group and 1:1 messaging alongside AW and AAW based
alternatives. Since Sealed Sender requires a separate encrypted en-
velope for each recipient, encryption costs grow significantly with
the number of recipients. Encryption and decryption are not the
only computation costs for AW and AAW, they must also process
updates. The cost of these updates is amortized over the length of an

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
epoch, so a tradeoff between amortized update cost and PCS/PCA is
possible. With our implementation, AW had a mean time of 1.5245
ms to update, andAAWhad a mean time of 2.7591 ms to update.
Group Size 2 5 10 100 1000
Group SK 20.098 (31.201)
AW(SK) 21.796 (32.502)
AAW 21.079 (32.185)
SS(SK) 131.12
(61.286)
283.58
(61.286)
343.41
(61.286)
1,116.4
(61.286)
6,052.5
(61.286)
1:1 DR 2.1979 (2.7178)
AW(DR) 3.7412 (4.2402)
SS(DR) 61.171 (52.750)
Table 3: Mean encryption (decryption) times, measured in
microseconds, for group and 1:1 messages sent using Signal’s
deployed techniques—Sender Keys, Sealed Sender, and Dou-
ble Ratchet—compared with alternatives using AW and AAW.
AW(SK) and AW(DR) denote AW wrapping Sender Keys and
Double Ratchet messages respectively. SS(SK) and SS(DR)
denote Sealed Sender wrapping Sender Keys and Double
Ratchet messages respectively.
Storage Cost. AW’s data structures add directly to the storage
costs of existing Double Ratchet and Sender Key sessions. Using
fut=past= 2000, AW adds 96 bytes to each session for sending,
288,096 bytes to each session for the recipient keys and lists (96
bytes for keys and 48 bytes per list entry), and 120,000 bytes per
recipient for a compact representation of the tag-indexed hash
table (20 bytes per entry). AAW adds 192 bytes to each session for
sending 480,096 bytes to each session for the recipient keys and
lists (96 bytes for keys and 80 bytes per list entry), and 120,000
bytes per recipient for a compact representation of the tag-indexed
hash table (20 bytes per entry). This is a significant cost considering
that current double ratchet sessions, even with Signal’s upcoming
post-quantum additions, are typically less than 5 KB in size.
5 Reducing State Metadata
We designed the state structure of our AW construction such that
metadata leakage on state exposures is reduced. Particularly, our
construction prevents an adversary from learning about past com-
munication. To model the exact information which an adversary can
learn about the state, we present a formal definition for capturing
state metadata in this section. Game-based approaches appear un-
suitable for defining this: since user states are highly construction-
dependent, it is unclear how a game could cleanly model that cer-
tain metadata in exposed states can be leaked while other metadata
must be hidden from adversaries. A natural alternative would be
employing a construction-dependent simulator. For this reason, we
use a UC definition [Can01] in which our ideal functionalityFAW
explicitly describes which information a state exposure reveals.3
FAW inherits the same protocol syntax as introduced in Section 3.
3To avoid thecommitment problemcaused by a corruption of a receiver after a secure
ciphertext is seen by the adversary, we use a technique of, e.g., [ AJM22] and the
references therein, that considers a weakened variant of UC-security which only
guarantees UC properties for a restricted set of admissible environments that do not
trigger the commitment problem.
In the following, we first describe the ideal functionalityFAW in
Section 5.1 and argue how our construction realizesFAW. Lastly, we
discuss state metadata leakage of the underlying protocol and possi-
ble extensions of AW to protect state anonymity of the underlying
protocol.
5.1 Ideal Functionality
The ideal functionality,FAW, is formally defined in Appendix D
in Figures 13 and 14. There we also provide a detailed explanation
ofFAW. Here, we provide a high-level overview of the functionality
and our design choices for it. This functionality captures multiple
senders𝑆𝑖∈[𝑛] and multiple receivers𝑅𝑗∈[𝑚] , where each sender𝑆𝑖
communicates with a fixed subset of receivers in a given session.
The functionality allows senders and receivers to update their
states as well as send and receive messages, respectively. The func-
tionality keeps track of the abstract components of sender and
receiver states during these operations such as current epoch, cur-
rent chain key stored, current message keys stored by receivers,
current dummy keys stored by receivers, etc. This is similar to the
way in which the anonymity game of Figure 1 keeps track of the
current epoch and index within that epoch for the sender, as well
as the current epoch of the receivers and for which (epoch, index)
pairs they have already received messages. We model receiving
inFAW by giving the receiver all messages stored in ciphertexts on
the delivery server and intended for them which have not yet been
received. Once a ciphertext stored on the delivery server has been
received by all intended receivers, it is deleted.
Importantly,FAW does not send any information to the adversary
when a message is sent or received. Indeed, in order to analyze the
anonymity that AW cancryptographicallyachieve, we choose not
to model any consequences ofnetworkobservation that can lead to
de-anonymization. For example, an all-powerful network adversary
that can see from where ciphertexts originate and to where they are
sent can already obtain a lot of de-anonymizing information, and
necessitatesnetwork routinganonymization techinques in addition
tocryptographicanonymization techniques. Instead, we assume
idealized channels that reveal nothing about what is sent/received
or by/to whom, to focus on the cryptographic aspects.
We do, however, allow the adversary to expose the delivery
server, which leaks ciphertexts that have not yet been delivered
to all recipients. This models a delivery server complying with a
subpoena, a breach of the delivery server, etc. Hence, any cipher-
text that the adversary sees through such an exposure should look
completely random and anonymous, except for those for which
it has obtained the corresponding key material through a party
exposure (see below). Now we explain the other effects of adver-
sarial exposure of any sender or receiver. Such exposures leak the
abstract chain keys stored by senders, and thus any chain/message
key which can be derived by them, as well as the chain key, stored
message keys, and dummy keys stored by receivers. Thus, any ci-
phertext that the adversary sees through an exposure of the delivery
server is compromised if the corresponding key is ever obtained
through a party exposure. Through subsequent leaks of parties in
the same session, the adversary can also learn how newly exposed
chain keys can be derived from previously exposed chain keys. Fur-
thermore, upon exposures of the delivery server, the adversary can

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
also learn how any previously exposed chain keys can be used to
derive the message keys for those ciphertexts. However, it is impor-
tant to observe that for a given exposed message key, if no chain
key that can be used to derive it is ever exposed, then it should look
completely random to the adversary and indistinguishable from
dummy keys in receiver states.
Finally, the adversary can take some actions that correspond to
network drops and malicious behavior of the delivery server. For
instance, the adversary can instructFAW to randomly drop some
proportion of ciphertexts that are still on the delivery server. Addi-
tionally, the adversary can instructFAW to drop some ciphertexts
that it saw during an exposure of the delivery server, as well as
change the underlying message of such a ciphertext, if it has the
necessary key material to do so.
5.2 Our A W Construction
Informally, our AW construction realizesFAW as follows. The sender
only stores key material needed immediately for the next encryp-
tion which does not reveal information about any previous commu-
nication; a key exposure only compromises future communication
in the epoch. Moreover, tagend is derived only after the final en-
cryption in an epoch, and thus never attached to a ciphertext. It
can only be used to determine the length of the previous epoch if a
chain key in the previous epoch was exposed. The receiver deletes
tagend from their state (if it was pre-computed) upon initiation of a
new epoch and an adversary thus cannot use tagend to determine
epoch ranges in𝐿 prv.
Further, the receiver state hides information about (past and
ongoing) communication as follows. Entries in the lists and hash
table are message keys, tags, and random blinding values, which
are independent of each other and cannot be used to infer previous
or future values. Additionally, in AAW, the receiver does not store
verification keys in plaintext but commitments which hides the
keys such that an adversary cannot associate entries to epochs.
Only when a chain key is exposed, the adversary can derive all
upcoming entries and identify entries from that epoch and potential
gaps in the sequence of list entries. Otherwise, the adversary can
neither tell which entries in𝐿prv belong to which epoch, nor how
many entries were not yet received since the list has constant size
and, if necessary, is filled with dummies that are indistinguishable
from real entries. From𝐿now (and𝐿nxt), the adversary only learns
which tags belong to the current epoch (and next epoch) and are
expected to be received.
5.3 State Anonymity of Underlying Protocol
The AW uses key material established through an underlying proto-
col to anonymize that protocol’s ciphertexts. While the state of the
AW is carefully designed to reduce metadata, the underlying proto-
col may have an arbitrary state structure. Thus, fully compromising
a party can still reveal the information which AW hides because
of the underlying protocol’s state. Consider, for instance, Signal’s
Double Ratchet: The pre-computed keys in the receiver state are
indexed with sequence numbers which AW explicitly omits. To
avoid metadata leakage through the underlying protocol, we can
use AW to also anonymize the state. The construction idea is that
sender and receiver share a symmetric key which the receiver uses
to encrypt their underlying protocol’s state. After the receiver en-
crypted the state, they discard the key. The sender includes the key
in each ciphertext such that the receiver can decrypt their state
temporarily, encrypt it again, discard the key, and so on. If the ad-
versary exposes the receiver, the receiver state remains anonymous.
However, the adversary still obtains the message key from AW to
decrypt the next ciphertext and thereby obtain the state key. To
avoid these weak anonymity guarantees, the parties could make
use of the potential state granularity of the underlying protocol and
use different keys to encrypt different parts of the state. If there is
a high granularity, the parties could derive a state encryption key
for every derived message key and link the tags to their respective
memory section. Such a construction would intuitively inherit FA
and PCA guarantees from AW.
Finally, we note again that using (A)AW as the messaging proto-
col itself (e.g., when replacing Sender Keys with AAW), our state
anonymity guarantees hold directly.
6 Trade-Offs and Optimizations
While the computation and communication overhead of AW clearly
outperforms the Signal Sealed Sender protocol, the size of the re-
ceiver state in AW is worse. In the following, we present possible
optimization strategies. It is important to note that the parameters
influencing these optimizations depend on the specific application.
Relevant factors include, e.g., the available memory, the degree of
privacy concerns, and the likelihood of receiving ciphertexts out of
order. Therefore, we only present general concepts and leave the
task of identifying optimal configurations and evaluating concrete
instantiations to the respective use case.
6.1 Efficient Data Structures
We begin to reduce the memory of the lists𝐿now and𝐿nxt. These lists
contain fut pre-computed keys, tags, and potentially commitments
to verification keys to allow for immediate decryption. In the case
that delays and drops (especially of many consecutive) ciphertexts
are rare, a large part of the pre-computed values is usually not
needed for receiving the next ciphertext. Decreasing fut is still
not an option in order to maintain functionality with immediate
decryption even in the anticipated worst case.
Instead, we propose that the receiver stores full values, including
entries in the hash table, only for the next𝑥 keys which are most
likely to be received. That is, if the last decryption used the key
mk𝑖 (with an entry in𝐿now or𝐿nxt), we assume that it is most likely
that the next received ciphertext corresponds to a key mk𝑗,𝑖<
𝑗≤𝑖+𝑥 . For the remaining fut−𝑥 values, the receiver does
not store the full entry but only information to decide whether
an incoming ciphertext is receivable, i.e., has key material within
this range. This can be achieved, e.g., through a Counting Bloom
Filter (CBF) (cf. Section B.4) as follows. When initializing their state,
the receiver first pre-computes the initial 𝑥 values, as described
in the AW construction (Section 4), and then stores the resulting
chain key ck𝑥 for the corresponding session. Then, they continue
deriving the upcoming fut−𝑥 tags and add (only) the tags to the
CBF, also storing the resulting chain keyck fut.
When a ciphertext arrives, the receiver first looks up the tag in
the hash table which spans all sessions. If they find the tag in the

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
hash table, they proceed as in the AW construction. Otherwise, the
tag is not in hash table, in which case the receiver goes through the
CBFs of all sessions and checks whether the tag is in one of them.
If a CBF from some session contains the tag, the receiver loads the
corresponding chain key ck𝑥 and derives entries until arriving at
the entry which corresponds to the tag (until at mostfut−𝑥 steps).
Note that, if the match was a false positive, this would result in
one wasted iteration over the fut−𝑥 tags. Otherwise, the receiver
arrived at the corresponding chain key ck𝑖, uses the matching mk𝑖
to decrypt the ciphertext, and moves all skipped entries to the list
𝐿prv. If the decryption was successful, the receiver then updates
their state, starting from the chain keyck𝑖 which corresponds to the
received tag, as follows: (1) they re-fill the fully pre-computed values
such that they store full entries for the entries which correspond
to the next𝑥 chain keys ck𝑗,𝑖<𝑗≤𝑖+𝑥 , (2) they delete all tags
for chain keys ck𝑗,𝑗<𝑖+𝑥 from the CBF, (3) they add all tags for
chain keysck 𝑗,𝑖+𝑥<𝑗≤𝑖+futto the CBF.
Verification Key Commitments in the CBF.One problem arises
in the CBF approach when implementing AAW which concerns
the commitments to the sender’s verification key. Recall that the
receiver stores commitments to the sender’s verification key such
that a state exposure does not reveal which epoch a key belongs
to. When a ciphertext arrives, the receiver uses the opening, which
is included in the message, to decrypt the verification key and
check the signature. Only the decrypted verification key allows the
receiver to precompute new commitments such that the signature
verification of the following fut entries is possible. Now, looking
at the new construction, when a ciphertext arrives whose tag is
in the CBF, the tag is the only information that the receiver stores
for this incoming ciphertext. That means, the receiver neither has
the corresponding commitment to the verification key, nor can it
recover the verification key from entries which are not in the Bloom
filter, as the receiver does not store the corresponding opening (but
only obtains it through a message from the sender).
We note that hiding the epoch for precomputed keys and tags
is only meaningful in the list of previously skipped keys𝐿prv. All
precomputed information in the lists 𝐿now and 𝐿prv necessarily
belongs to two consecutive epochs, respectively. For this reason,
we can store the verification keys for the current and next epoch in
plaintext without using the commitment approach. Only for entries
in the list𝐿prv, we hide the verifications keys via commitments to
conceal the entries’ epochs. For computing the commitments for
𝐿prv, we propose the following adaptation.
Instead of storing commitments of verification keys for the cur-
rent (and next) epoch, the receiver stores the verification keys in
plaintext together with the openings for the commitments. More
specifically, the first𝑥 entries of lists𝐿now and𝐿nxt in the receiver
state store the openings𝑟. That means, whenever the receiver de-
rives an opening, i.e., when computing the values for the𝑥 entries
in the hash table, the receiver does not immediately compute the
commitment, but instead stores the opening. Then, when moving
an entry from𝐿now to the list of older keys𝐿prv, the receiver uses the
stored opening to compute the commitment to the corresponding
epoch’s verification key. When the receiver decrypts a ciphertext
from a new epoch𝑖+ 1, they move the necessary entries from𝐿now
to𝐿prv, thereby computing the remaining commitments. Then, they
discard the verification key for the epoch𝑖.
Impact on Provable Security.Using a CBF for the updated state
and storing the verification key for the current and next epoch
in plaintext is provably secure and falls within our anonymity
models (both for Section 3 and Section 5.1). First, the CBF in this
construction functions exactly like the hashtable from the original
state. The CBF is thus simply a more compact representation used
to decide whether an incoming tag is receivable. Concretely, the
adversary can only interact with the CBF by submitting decryption
queries. Per our construction, the decryption only returns messages
if the tag was a true positive. In all other cases, the receiver does not
have the key material, the decryption fails, and the state remains
unchanged. Thus, the CBF is not affected by adversarial queries
(e.g., as studied in [FPUV22, MFS23]).
Second, storing the verification key in plaintext for the current
(and next) list does not give the adversary any more information on
state exposure as before. That is because the verification key alone
does not reveal any information about the sender’s identity. More-
over, the adversary, by the structure of the receiver state, already
knows that all entries in the current list𝐿now (and future list𝐿nxt)
belong to the same epoch. Lastly, knowing the verification key only
allows the adversary to deanonymize ciphertexts (by checking the
signatures) if they also know the decryption key for the signature.
Otherwise, the signature is encrypted and the verification key is
of no use for the adversary. Additionally, observe that the cipher-
texts whose verification key is leaked on exposure are exactly a
subset of the ciphertext whose decryption keys are leaked. That
means, the exposed verification key does not enable the adversary
to deanonymize any (prior or future) ciphertexts beyond what can
already be deanonymized with the decryption keys alone.
Estimated Savings.Depending on the chosen parameters for
the CBF, this approach can significantly reduce the storage while
adding relatively small computational overhead as operations on
the CBF are mainly inexpensive hash operations. We support this
claim by sketching out an exemplary performance calculation in
the following.
Storage Costs.The following calculation applies to both 𝐿now and
𝐿nxt, assuming they have the same requirements. Assume we want
to offer immediate decryption for the next fut= 2000ciphertexts,
and we fully pre-compute𝑥= 100of them, which means that our
CBF stores𝑛= 1900tags. We allow for false positive rate of𝑝= 0.01.
Let ns be the number of sessions in which the receiver is. Using
the equations from [ Blo70], we calculate the optimal number of
entries𝑚and the optimal number of hash functions𝑘as
𝑚=− 𝑛·ln𝑝
(ln 2)2 ≈18,200and𝑘=⌈ 𝑚
𝑛 ·ln 2⌉=7.
If all of the 1900 tags map to the same index, a counter would need
to be able to store ⌈log2 1900⌉= 11bits. However, it is very un-
likely that each tag maps to the same entry, and thus, we choose
to go down to the practical size of 8 bits. 4 The overall storage
cost for the CBF is then8 · 18, 200 bits= 18, 200 bytes for each
4To be fully certain that overflows are avoided, one could choose to use 11-bit counters,
or the next practical chunk size of 16-bit counters, which would increase the resulting
storage by 2.

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
list (𝐿now and𝐿prv) times the number of sessions. With an efficient
instantiation of CBF (e.g., [BMP+06]), we can reduce this space by
a factor of 2, resulting in18 , 200bytes per session in addition to
storing two lists of 100 full values (which include list and hash
table entries). To estimate the storage cost of the 100 full values
for both lists, we use the values reported in Section 4.2. For AW,
we calculate2 ·( 96+ 100·( 48+ 20))= 13, 792 bytes; and for
AAW2 ·( 96+ 100·( 80+ 20))= 20, 192 bytes. This results in
an overall storage of18, 200+ 13, 792 = 31, 992 bytes for AW and
18, 200+20, 192 = 38, 392 bytes for AAW. Additionally, for AAW, we
additionally store two 32-byte verification keys; storing the open-
ings for the commitments instead of the commitments themselves
does not change the occupied storage. Comparing this with the
original construction, the new approach results in around 7.8% for
AW and 6.4% for AAW of the required storage size.
Computational Costs.Each full entry (in the hash table and a
list) is computed once—either for immediate use or for storage in
𝐿now or𝐿prv. The CBF adds one insertion and one deletion per tag,
totaling2𝑘 hash operations. In the (assumed rare) case of many
dropped or re-ordered ciphertexts, i.e., when a tag is missing from
the hash table, the receiver performs a CBF lookup: this involves
𝑘 hash operations and checking 𝑘 entries per CBF. In the worst
case, all session CBFs must be checked, yieldingO(𝑘·n s) lookups,
matching the cost of a false positive. Thus, the total overhead per
tag is2𝑘+ 1hashes and up toO(𝑘·n s) lookups. As both hashes and
lookups are cheap, and CBF lookups are rare, the added overhead
is low, making a CBF-based approach a practical alternative to the
original design.
Optimizations.The construction can be improved using efficient
CBF variants [ RKK14, PRM16]. If out-of-order delivery is infre-
quent, reducing 𝑥 and storing more items in the CBF can lower
storage needs. Accepting a higher false positive rate can also save
space. Similarly, reducing counter size from 8 to 4 bits halves stor-
age if overflows are unlikely. Additionally, going through the CBFs
by relevance of the sessions would decrease the time it takes to find
a match. Enhancing parameters depends on specific use cases and
requires insight into network and application behavior, making this
an interesting optimization problem for tailored deployments.
6.2 Omitting Dummy Keys
The receiver adds dummy values to their state during initialization
or when using keys from𝐿prv. This keeps𝐿prv at a constant size and
prevents leakage of past communication patterns. When ciphertexts
arrive mostly in order, few keys are skipped, so most entries in𝐿prv
are dummies and not functionally needed. Omitting these dummies
can save up to past entries, which, based on our evaluation in
Section 4.2, reduces storage by up to a third—around 136,000 bytes
for AW and 200,000 bytes for AAW per session.
Impact on Provable Security.Since the dummy keys are never
used for encryption, this change does impact the game-based ano-
nymity guarantees from Section 3. Regarding the model for state
anonymity (Section 5.1), there is only a minor change to the anony-
mity guarantees: Removing the dummies allows the adversary to
learn the number of not received old ciphertexts but nothing else
about the past communication. Therefore, this (informal) trade-off
for anonymity can be a reasonable optimization option.
Acknowledgments
We would like to thank Benedikt Auerbach and Guillermo Pascual-
Perez for initial and ongoing discussions about related questions.
We are also thankful for the feedback from the anonymous review-
ers.
Lea Thiemt was supported by Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft
(DFG, German Research Foundation) as part of the Research and
Training Group 2475 “Cybercrime and Forensic Computing” (grant
number 393541319/GRK2475/2-2024).
Disclaimer
This paper was prepared for informational purposes in part by the
Artificial Intelligence Research group of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and its affiliates ("JP Morgan”) and is not a product of the Research
Department of JP Morgan. JP Morgan makes no representation and
warranty whatsoever and disclaims all liability, for the complete-
ness, accuracy or reliability of the information contained herein.
This document is not intended as investment research or investment
advice, or a recommendation, offer or solicitation for the purchase
or sale of any security, financial instrument, financial product or
service, or to be used in any way for evaluating the merits of par-
ticipating in any transaction, and shall not constitute a solicitation
under any jurisdiction or to any person, if such solicitation under
such jurisdiction or to such person would be unlawful.
©2025 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved.
References
[Abe99] Masayuki Abe. Mix-networks on permutation networks. In Kwok-Yan
Lam, Eiji Okamoto, and Chaoping Xing, editors,Advances in Cryptology -
ASIACRYPT’99, pages 258–273, Berlin, Heidelberg, 1999. Springer Berlin
Heidelberg.
[AJM22] Joël Alwen, Daniel Jost, and Marta Mularczyk. On the insider security of
MLS. In Yevgeniy Dodis and Thomas Shrimpton, editors,CRYPTO 2022,
Part II, volume 13508 ofLNCS, pages 34–68. Springer, Cham, August 2022.
[BBR+23] Richard Barnes, Benjamin Beurdouche, Raphael Robert, Jon Millican,
Emad Omara, and Katriel Cohn-Gordon. The Messaging Layer Security
(MLS) Protocol. RFC 9420, July 2023.
[BCG23] David Balbás, Daniel Collins, and Phillip Gajland. WhatsUpp with sender
keys? Analysis, improvements and security proofs. In Jian Guo and Ron
Steinfeld, editors,ASIACRYPT 2023, Part V, volume 14442 ofLNCS, pages
307–341. Springer, Singapore, December 2023.
[BFWW11] Christina Brzuska, Marc Fischlin, Bogdan Warinschi, and Stephen C.
Williams. Composability of Bellare-Rogaway key exchange protocols. In
Yan Chen, George Danezis, and Vitaly Shmatikov, editors,ACM CCS 2011,
pages 51–62. ACM Press, October 2011.
[BH23] Eric Brigham and Nicholas Hopper. Poster: No safety in numbers: traffic
analysis of sealed-sender groups in signal.CoRR, abs/2305.09799, 2023.
[BHMS16] Colin Boyd, Britta Hale, Stig Frode Mjølsnes, and Douglas Stebila. From
stateless to stateful: Generic authentication and authenticated encryption
constructions with application to TLS. In Kazue Sako, editor,CT-RSA 2016,
volume 9610 ofLNCS, pages 55–71. Springer, Cham, February / March
2016.
[Blo70] Burton H. Bloom. Space/time trade-offs in hash coding with allowable
errors.Commun. ACM, 13(7):422–426, July 1970.
[BMP+06] Flavio Bonomi, Michael Mitzenmacher, Rina Panigrahy, Sushil Singh, and
George Varghese. An improved construction for counting bloom filters.
In Yossi Azar and Thomas Erlebach, editors,Algorithms – ESA 2006, pages
684–695, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2006. Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
[BRT23] Alexander Bienstock, Paul Rösler, and Yi Tang. ASMesh: Anonymous and
secure messaging in mesh networks using stronger, anonymous double
ratchet. In Weizhi Meng, Christian Damsgaard Jensen, Cas Cremers, and
Engin Kirda, editors,ACM CCS 2023, pages 1–15. ACM Press, November
2023.

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
[BRV20] Fatih Balli, Paul Rösler, and Serge Vaudenay. Determining the core primi-
tive for optimally secure ratcheting. In Shiho Moriai and Huaxiong Wang,
editors,ASIACRYPT 2020, Part III, volume 12493 ofLNCS, pages 621–650.
Springer, Cham, December 2020.
[BSJ+17] Mihir Bellare, Asha Camper Singh, Joseph Jaeger, Maya Nyayapati, and
Igors Stepanovs. Ratcheted encryption and key exchange: The security of
messaging. In Jonathan Katz and Hovav Shacham, editors,CRYPTO 2017,
Part III, volume 10403 ofLNCS, pages 619–650. Springer, Cham, August
2017.
[Can01] Ran Canetti. Universally composable security: A new paradigm for cryp-
tographic protocols. In42nd FOCS, pages 136–145. IEEE Computer Society
Press, October 2001.
[CKGS98] Benny Chor, Eyal Kushilevitz, Oded Goldreich, and Madhu Sudan. Private
information retrieval.J. ACM, 45(6):965–981, November 1998.
[CR25] Daniel Collins and Paul Rösler. GURKE: Group unidirectional ratcheted
key exchange. InAdvances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2025, 2025.
[DHRR22] Benjamin Dowling, Eduard Hauck, Doreen Riepel, and Paul Rösler.
Strongly anonymous ratcheted key exchange. In Shweta Agrawal and
Dongdai Lin, editors,ASIACRYPT 2022, Part III, volume 13793 ofLNCS,
pages 119–150. Springer, Cham, December 2022.
[DJK+25] Yevgeniy Dodis, Daniel Jost, Shuichi Katsumata, Thomas Prest, and Rolfe
Schmidt. Triple ratchet: A bandwidth efficient hybrid-secure signal proto-
col. In Serge Fehr and Pierre-Alain Fouque, editors,Advances in Cryptology
- EUROCRYPT 2025, 2025.
[DMS04] Roger Dingledine, Nick Mathewson, and Paul F. Syverson. Tor: The
second-generation onion router. In Matt Blaze, editor,USENIX Security
2004, pages 303–320. USENIX Association, August 2004.
[DRS20] Benjamin Dowling, Paul Rösler, and Jörg Schwenk. Flexible authenticated
and confidential channel establishment (fACCE): Analyzing the noise
protocol framework. In Aggelos Kiayias, Markulf Kohlweiss, Petros
Wallden, and Vassilis Zikas, editors,PKC 2020, Part I, volume 12110 of
LNCS, pages 341–373. Springer, Cham, May 2020.
[FG14] Marc Fischlin and Felix Günther. Multi-stage key exchange and the case
of Google’s QUIC protocol. In Gail-Joon Ahn, Moti Yung, and Ninghui Li,
editors,ACM CCS 2014, pages 1193–1204. ACM Press, November 2014.
[FGJ24] Marc Fischlin, Felix Günther, and Christian Janson. Robust channels:
Handling unreliable networks in the record layers of QUIC and DTLS 1.3.
Journal of Cryptology, 37(2):9, April 2024.
[FPUV22] Mia Filic, Kenneth G. Paterson, Anupama Unnikrishnan, and Fernando
Virdia. Adversarial correctness and privacy for probabilistic data struc-
tures. In Heng Yin, Angelos Stavrou, Cas Cremers, and Elaine Shi, editors,
ACM CCS 2022, pages 1037–1050. ACM Press, November 2022.
[HKP22] Keitaro Hashimoto, Shuichi Katsumata, and Thomas Prest. How to hide
MetaData in MLS-like secure group messaging: Simple, modular, and
post-quantum. In Heng Yin, Angelos Stavrou, Cas Cremers, and Elaine
Shi, editors,ACM CCS 2022, pages 1399–1412. ACM Press, November
2022.
[JK25] Joseph Jaeger and Akshaya Kumar. Analyzing group chat encryption in
MLS, session, signal, and matrix. In Serge Fehr and Pierre-Alain Fouque,
editors,Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2025, 2025.
[JKS24] Joseph Jaeger, Akshaya Kumar, and Igors Stepanovs. Symmetric sign-
cryption and E2EE group messaging in keybase. In Marc Joye and Gregor
Leander, editors,EUROCRYPT 2024, Part III, volume 14653 ofLNCS, pages
283–312. Springer, Cham, May 2024.
[JL17] Simon Josefsson and Ilari Liusvaara. Edwards-Curve Digital Signature
Algorithm (EdDSA). RFC 8032, January 2017.
[KE10] Hugo Krawczyk and Pasi Eronen. HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key
Derivation Function (HKDF). RFC 5869, May 2010.
[KK25] Raphael Robert Konrad Kohbrok. Mimi metadata minimalization (mim-
imi). https://www.ietf .org/id/draf t- kohbrok- mimi- metadata-
minimalization-02.html, 04 2025.
[KPB03] Tadayoshi Kohno, Adriana Palacio, and John Black. Building secure
cryptographic transforms, or how to encrypt and MAC. Cryptology
ePrint Archive, Report 2003/177, 2003.
[LHT16] Adam Langley, Mike Hamburg, and Sean Turner. Elliptic Curves for
Security. RFC 7748, January 2016.
[LT22] Zeyu Liu and Eran Tromer. Oblivious message retrieval. In Yevgeniy
Dodis and Thomas Shrimpton, editors,CRYPTO 2022, Part I, volume 13507
ofLNCS, pages 753–783. Springer, Cham, August 2022.
[Lun18] Joshua Lund. Technology preview: Sealed sender for signal. https:
//signal.org/blog/sealed-sender/, 10 2018.
[Mes25a] Signal Messenger. libsignal. https://github.com/signalapp/libsignal/,
2025.
[Mes25b] Signal Messenger. Securevaluerecovery2. https://github.com/signalapp/S
ecureValueRecovery2, 2025.
[MFS23] Sam A. Markelon, Mia Filic, and Thomas Shrimpton. Compact frequency
estimators in adversarial environments. In Weizhi Meng, Christian Dams-
gaard Jensen, Cas Cremers, and Engin Kirda, editors,ACM CCS 2023,
pages 3254–3268. ACM Press, November 2023.
[MKA+21] Ian Martiny, Gabriel Kaptchuk, Adam J. Aviv, Daniel S. Roche, and Eric
Wustrow. Improving Signal’s sealed sender. InNDSS 2021. The Internet
Society, February 2021.
[MV04] David A. McGrew and John Viega. The galois/counter mode of operation
(gcm). https://csrc.nist.rip/groups/ST/toolkit/BCM/documents/proposed
modes/gcm/gcm-spec.pdf, 1 2004.
[Per18] Trevor Perrin. The noise protocol framework. https://noiseprotocol.org/
noise.pdf, 07 2018.
[PM16a] Trevor Perrin and Moxie Marlinspike. The double ratchet algorithm.
https://signal.org/docs/specifications/doubleratchet/doubleratchet.pdf,
11 2016.
[PM16b] Trevor Perrin and Moxie Marlinspike. The x3dh key agreement protocol.
https://signal.org/docs/specifications/x3dh/x3dh.pdf, 11 2016.
[PR18a] Bertram Poettering and Paul Rösler. Asynchronous ratcheted key ex-
change. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2018/296, 2018.
[PR18b] Bertram Poettering and Paul Rösler. Towards bidirectional ratcheted
key exchange. In Hovav Shacham and Alexandra Boldyreva, editors,
CRYPTO 2018, Part I, volume 10991 ofLNCS, pages 3–32. Springer, Cham,
August 2018.
[PRM16] Salvatore Pontarelli, Pedro Reviriego, and Juan Antonio Maestro. Improv-
ing counting bloom filter performance with fingerprints.Information
Processing Letters, 116(4):304–309, 2016.
[RKK14] Ori Rottenstreich, Yossi Kanizo, and Isaac Keslassy. The variable-
increment counting bloom filter.IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking,
22(4):1092–1105, 2014.
[RMS18] Paul Rösler, Christian Mainka, and Jörg Schwenk. More is less: On the
end-to-end security of group chats in signal, whatsapp, and threema. In
2018 IEEE EuroS&P 2018, London, United Kingdom, April 24-26, 2018, pages
415–429. IEEE, 2018.
[RSG98] M.G. Reed, P.F. Syverson, and D.M. Goldschlag. Anonymous connections
and onion routing. volume 16, pages 482–494, 1998.
[RSS23] Paul Rösler, Daniel Slamanig, and Christoph Striecks. Unique-path iden-
tity based encryption with applications to strongly secure messaging.
In Carmit Hazay and Martijn Stam, editors,EUROCRYPT 2023, Part V,
volume 14008 ofLNCS, pages 3–34. Springer, Cham, April 2023.
[RZ18] Phillip Rogaway and Yusi Zhang. Simplifying game-based definitions -
indistinguishability up to correctness and its application to stateful AE. In
Hovav Shacham and Alexandra Boldyreva, editors,CRYPTO 2018, Part II,
volume 10992 ofLNCS, pages 3–32. Springer, Cham, August 2018.
[Sch25] Rolfe Schmidt. Artifact – generic anonymity wrapper for messaging
protocols. https://zenodo.org/records/16929590, 2025.
[SJ17] Hua Sun and Syed Ali Jafar. The capacity of private information retrieval.
volume 63, pages 4075–4088, 2017.
[Ste24] Douglas Stebila. Security analysis of the imessage PQ3 protocol. https:
//security.apple.com/assets/files/Security_analysis_of_the_iMessage_P
Q3_protocol_Stebila.pdf, 2024.
[SW06] Vitaly Shmatikov and Ming-Hsiu Wang. Timing analysis in low-latency
mix networks: Attacks and defenses. In Dieter Gollmann, Jan Meier, and
Andrei Sabelfeld, editors,Computer Security – ESORICS 2006, pages 18–33,
Berlin, Heidelberg, 2006. Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
[TRB+25a] Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yev-
geniy Dodis. Generic anonymity wrapper for messaging protocols. In
Proceedings of the 2025 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Com-
munications Security, CCS 2025. ACM, 2025.
[TRB+25b] Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yev-
geniy Dodis. Generic anonymity wrapper for messaging protocols. Cryp-
tology ePrint Archive, Paper 2025, 2025.
A Supplementary A W Definitions
A.1 Correctness
In Figure 4, we formally define correctness via game CORR in
which adversaryA can query oracles UpS, UpR, Enc, and Dec to
execute the corresponding algorithms AW.upS, AW.upR, AW.encS,
and AW.decR. As long as oracles UpS and UpR are queried with
matching input and output keys𝑘 and vk in the challenge session,
respectively, it is required that algorithm AW.decR outputscorrect
messages𝑚 and session identifiers id (see line 36). For this, helper
procedure Rcvbl computes the set of ciphertexts that are expected

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
to be receivable based on the out of order tolerance parameters
(past,fut) . Similar concepts of unreliable delivery in secure chan-
nel protocols are covered in [KPB03, BHMS16, RZ18, FGJ24].
A.2 Game-Based Authenticity
Figure 5 captures the game for defining authenticity that is de-
scribed in Section 3.2. Helper procedureExpsd traces symmetrically
and asymmetrically insecure ciphertexts.
Encrypt-then-Sign Binding.Our construction of Authenticated
AW from Section 4 first anonymizes payload with authenticated
encryption and, then, directly signs the resulting ciphertext with-
out, additionally, signing metadata that is already contained in
the encrypted payload. Since recent literature on Symmetric Sign-
cryption [JKS24, JK25] may suggest that further binding measures
between authenticated encryption and signature is necessary, we
elaborate on the differences between AAW and Symmetric Sign-
cryption.
Symmetric Signcryption [JKS24, JK25] is modeled as a standalone
stateless primitive that offers confidentiality with long-term sym-
metric keys as well as authenticity with long-term asymmetric keys.
For this reason, the security definition of Symmetric Signcryption
models that symmetric encryption keys and asymmetric signing
keys can both be re-used for multiple messages and across different
communication settings; this motivates that, in the security defi-
nitions of [JKS24, JK25], encryption keys and signing keys can be
corrupted fully independently.
In contrast, whenever the exposure of the sender state in our
AAW setting reveals the signing key, corresponding future encryp-
tion keys of the same epoch are leaked as well. As a result, our
definitions from figures 1 and 5 consider confidentiality of payload
hopelessly lost once asymmetric authenticity for that same payload
is not achievable anymore. This relation of dependent corruption
renders additional binding measures between authenticated encryp-
tion and signature in our construction from Figure 2 redundant.
Another difference towards [JKS24, JK25] is that, in AAW, there
is only a single sender in each session and that sender only exists for
the corresponding group of receivers; this sender is authenticated
with its chain of signing keys. The user behind that sender may
only become relevant on the higher level application and on the
lower level (continuous) key exchange that produces fresh, sym-
metric input update keys for (A)AW. Thus, the sender, its chain
of signing keys, its group of receivers, and the session collapse to
the same concept in (A)AW, which obviates the need for binding
this information explicitly. Furthermore, our construction is based
on probabilistic authenticated encryption and (A)AW has no as-
sociated data input. For these reasons, parallel authentication and
additional binding measures for encryption nonces or externally
input associated data strings are not necessary in our setting.
Nevertheless, we want to emphasize that our (A)AW security
definitions require, and our (A)AW constructions securely offer
strong authentication. The mentioned techniques developed for
Symmetric Signcrytion only become necessary due to the sophis-
ticated corruption model that is motivated by parallel use of the
long-term symmetric and asymmetric key material, which does not
apply to our setting.
B Cryptographic Primitives
B.1 Authenticated Encryption with Associated
Data
The AEAD scheme provides the following three algorithms (AE.gen,
AE.enc,AE.dec):
•AE.gen:()→ $KGenerates a symmetric key𝑘∈K.
•AE.enc :K×M×AD→ $C Takes a symmetric key𝑘, a
message𝑚∈M , and an associated data string ad∈AD
and encrypts the message such that the resulting ciphertext
𝑐∈Cand associated data are authenticated.
•AE.dec :K×C×AD→M∪{⊥} Takes a symmetric key𝑘,
a ciphertext𝑐, and an associated data stringad, and decrypts
the message if ciphertext and associated data string are
authentic.
Security: Indistinguishability of Ciphertexts from Random under
Chosen-Plaintext Attacks.The advantage of an adversary A against
the multi-instance authenticated encryption scheme with associ-
ated dataAEin gameIND$from Figure 6 is defined as:
Advind$
AE(A) :=
Pr[IND$0
AE(A)=1]−Pr[IND$ 1
AE(A)=1]
 .
Security: Strong Existential Unforgeability under Chosen-Message
Attacks.The advantage of an adversaryA against the multi-instance
authenticated encryption scheme with associated data AE in game
SUF-CMAfrom Figure 7 is defined as:
Advsuf-cma
AE (A) :=Pr[SUF-CMA AE(A)=1].
B.2 Signature SchemeS
Syntax.The signature scheme is a tuple of algorithmsS =( S.gen,
S.sgn, S.vfy) for some message spaceM, signing key spaceSK,
verification key spaceVK, and signature spaceS:
• S.gen :()→ $(SK,VK) Generates a pair of signing key
skand verification keyvk.
• S.sgn :SK×M→ $S Creates a signature𝜎∈S for𝑚
usingsk.
• S.vfy :SK×M×S→{tru,fal} Verifies whether𝜎 is a
valid signature for𝑚usingsk.
Security: Strong Existential Unforgeability.We define the advan-
tage of an adversaryA against the multi-instance signature scheme
Sin gameSUF-CMAfrom Figure 8 as:
Advsuf-cma
S (A) :=Pr[SUF-CMA S(A)=1].
B.3 Commitment schemeC
Syntax.The commitment scheme is a tuple of algorithmsC =
(C.com, C.vfy) for some message spaceM, randomness spaceR ,
and commitment spaceCM:
• C.com :M×R→CM Creates a commitment cm∈CM
to message𝑚∈Mand opening𝑟∈R.
• C.vfy :M×CM×R→{tru,fal} Verifies if cm is a valid
commitment to𝑚using opening𝑟.

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
GameCORR AW,past,fut(A)
00(𝜔,𝑛,(id ∗
𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])← $A()
01(ep S,(ep R𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])←0 1+𝑛
02(𝑠,(oos 𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])←∞ 1+𝑛
03(KG[·],(𝐾 𝑖[·])𝑖∈[𝑛])←⊥ 1+𝑛
04(𝐶[·],𝑀[·],VK[·])←⊥ 3
05(𝑅 𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛] ←∅ 𝑛
06(st S,(st R𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])←⊥ 1+𝑛
07InvokeA(𝜔)
08Stop with0
OracleUp S(𝑘)
09Require𝑘∈K
10(st S,vk)← $ AW.upS(stS,𝑘)
11ep S←ep S+1;𝑠←0
12IfKG[ep S]=⊥:KG[ep S]←𝑘
13VK[ep S]←vk
14·For all𝑖∈[𝑛]:𝐾 𝑖[epS]∉{𝑘,⊥}:
15·oos 𝑖←min(ep S,oos𝑖)
16Returnvk
OracleEnc(𝑚)
17Require𝑠<∞
18(st S,𝑐)← $ AW.encS(stS,𝑚)
19𝑠←𝑠+1
20·𝐶[ep S,𝑠]←𝑐
21·𝑀[ep S,𝑠]←𝑚
22Return𝑐
OracleUp R(𝑖,id,𝑘,vk)
23Require𝑖∈[𝑛]∧𝑘∈K
24Ifid=id ∗
𝑖∧ep R𝑖 <oos 𝑖:
25RequireVK[ep R𝑖+1]≠⊥
26ep R𝑖←ep R𝑖+1
27IfKG[ep R𝑖]=⊥:KG[ep R𝑖]←𝑘
28·Else ifKG[ep R𝑖]∉{𝑘,⊥}∨VK[ep R𝑖]≠vk:
29·oos 𝑖←min(ep R𝑖,oos𝑖)
30𝐾 𝑖[epR𝑖]←𝑘
31st R𝑖←AW.up R(stR𝑖,id,𝑘,vk)
32Return
OracleDec(𝑖,𝑐)
33Require𝑖∈[𝑛]
34(st R𝑖,id,𝑚)←AW.dec R(stR𝑖,𝑐)
35·If∃(ep ′,𝑠′)∈Rcvbl(𝑅 𝑖,𝐶,ep R𝑖,past,fut):
𝐶[ep′,𝑠′]=𝑐∧ep R𝑖 <oos 𝑖:
36·If𝑚≠𝑀[ep ′,𝑠′]∨id≠id ∗
𝑖 : Stop with1
37Else:𝑅 𝑖
∪
←{(ep ′,𝑠′)}
38·Else if𝑚≠⊥∧id=id ∗
𝑖 :oos 𝑖←min(ep R𝑖,oos𝑖)
39Return(id,𝑚)
Helper ProcRcvbl(𝑅,𝐶,ep R,past,fut):
40𝑃 ′←{(ep ′,𝑠′)∉𝑅|𝐶[ep ′,𝑠′]≠⊥∧(ep ′ <ep R
∨ep′ =ep R∧𝑠′ <max(𝑠 ∗|(ep ′,𝑠∗)∈𝑅))}
41𝑃←Set ofpastgreatest(ep ′,𝑠′)∈𝑃 ′
42𝐹←{(ep ′,𝑠′)∉𝑅|𝐶[ep ′,𝑠′]≠⊥
∧(ep′ =ep R+1∧𝑠 ′≤fut∨ep ′ =ep R
∧𝑠∗ <𝑠′≤𝑠∗+fut∧𝑠 ∗ =max(𝑠◦|(ep ′,𝑠◦)∈𝑅))}
43Return𝑃∪𝐹
Figure 4: GameCORRfor A W schemeAW.
Security: Binding.We define the advantage of an adversary A
against commitment schemeCin gameBINDfrom Figure 9 as:
Advbind
C (A) :=Pr[BIND 0
C(A)=1].
B.4 Counting Bloom Filter
A Counting Bloom Filter (CBF) is a data structure that supports effi-
cient insertions, deletions, and membership queries using an array
of integer counters. To add an element, we hash it𝑘 independent
hash functions, each producing an index into the counter array. We
then increment the counters at these 𝑘 positions by 1. Similarly,
we remove an element from the CBF by hashing it and decreasing
the counter at the resulting indices by 1. To test membership, we
verify that all corresponding counters are non-zero. It can occur
that the CBF yields false positives. This false positive probability𝑝
is taken into account when choosing the size and number of hash
functions for the CBF. The CBF does not report false negatives as
long as counters do not underflow.
B.5 Linked List
A linked list is a data structure with the following interface.
•LL.init()→𝐿: Initializes a new empty linked list.
•LL.push new/pushold(data): Appends an item containingdata
to the list as the newest/oldest entry.
•LL.pop new/popold() →ptr : Removes the oldest/newest
item from the list and returns a pointer to it.
•LL.len()→𝑛: Returns the length of the list.
•LL.rem(ptr) : Removes the item which ptr points to from
the list.
•LL.crop(ht,from=𝑖) : Crops the list such that all items
starting from index𝑖 until the highest index remain in the
list. Removes deleted items from the hash tableht.
•LL.crop(ht,until=𝑖) : Crops the list such that all items start-
ing from index0until index 𝑖 remain in the list. Removes
deleted items from the hash tableht.
B.6 Hash Table
A hash table is a data structure with the following interface.
•HT.init()→ht: Initializes a new empty hash table.
•HT.add({key : value}): Adds an entry to the hash table
indexed withkeystoringvalue.
•HT.acc(key)→value : Returns value stored under index
key.
•HT.rem(key) : Removes the entry indexed by key from the
hash table.
C Proofs
C.1 Game-based Anonymity
Theorem C.1.Let AE be an AEAD scheme andH 1, H2 random
oracles. LetA be an adversary against the IND security of the AW
scheme with parameters fut,past . LetB be an adversary against
the SUF-CMA security of the AEAD scheme, and let C be an adver-
sary against the IND$ security of the AEAD scheme. LetCK ,UK ,
andT denote the chain key space, update key space, and tag space,
respectively. We show that our AW construction is secure with respect
toIND AW,fut,past such that

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
GameAUTH AW,past,fut(A)
00(𝜔,𝑛,(id ∗
𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])← $A()
01(ep S,(ep R𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])←0 1+𝑛
02(𝑠,(oos 𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])←∞ 1+𝑛
03(triv 𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛] ←fal𝑛
04(𝐾[·],(KR 𝑖[·])𝑖∈[𝑛] ,VK[·],𝐶[·])←⊥ 3+𝑛
05((𝑅 𝑖,XSK𝑖,XR𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛] ,XS,SKS)←∅ 2+3𝑛
06(st S,(st R𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])←⊥ 1+𝑛
07InvokeA(𝜔)
08Stop with0
OracleUp S(𝑘)
09Require𝑘∈K∪{⊥}
10ep S←ep S+1;𝑠←0
11If𝑘=⊥:𝑘← $K
12·Else:SKS
∪
←ep S
13(st S,vk)← $ AW.upS(stS,𝑘)
14𝐾[ep S]←𝑘;VK[ep S]←vk
15Returnvk
OracleEnc(𝑚)
16Require𝑠<∞
17(st S,𝑐)← $ AW.encS(stS,𝑚)
18𝑠←𝑠+1;𝐶[ep S,𝑠]←𝑐
19Return𝑐
Helper ProcExpsd(𝑖,ep)
20𝑋←∅
21For allep ′ : 0≤ep ′≤ep:
22If(ep ′∈SKS∨ep ′≥oos 𝑖)
∧((ep ′−1,∞)∈𝑋∨ep ′ =0):
23𝑋
∪
←{(ep ′,𝑠′′)|𝑠 ′′∈N}
24Ifep ′ <oos 𝑖:
25𝑋
∪
←{(ep ′,𝑠′′)∈XS|𝑠 ′′∈N}
26For all𝑖 ′∈[𝑛]:∀ep ′′≤ep′
KR𝑖′[ep′′]=KR 𝑖[ep′′]:
27𝑋
∪
←{(ep ′,𝑠′′)∈XR 𝑖′|𝑠′′∈N}
28Return𝑋
OracleUp R(𝑖,id,𝑘,vk)
29Require𝑖∈[𝑛]∧𝑘∈K∪{⊥}
30Ifid=id ∗
𝑖 :
31Require𝐾[ep R𝑖+1]≠⊥
32ep R𝑖←ep R𝑖+1
33If𝑘∉{𝐾[ep R𝑖],⊥}∨vk≠VK[ep R𝑖]≠⋄:
34oos 𝑖←min(ep R𝑖,oos𝑖)
35Else ifep R𝑖 <oos 𝑖:𝑘←𝐾[ep R𝑖]
36KR 𝑖[epR𝑖]←𝑘
37·Ifvk≠VK[ep R𝑖]:XSK 𝑖
∪
←{ep R𝑖}
38st R𝑖←AW.up R(stR𝑖,id,𝑘,vk)
39Return
OracleDec(𝑖,𝑐)
40(st R𝑖,id,𝑚)←AW.dec R(stR𝑖,𝑐)
41 ¯𝑅←Rcvbl(𝑅 𝑖,𝐶,min(ep R𝑖,oos𝑖−1),past,fut)
42𝑅 ∗←{(ep ′,𝑠′)|oos 𝑖≤ep′ <∞,𝑠 ′∈N}
43𝑋←Expsd(𝑖,ep R𝑖)
44·Ifid=id ∗
𝑖∧triv𝑖 =fal∧𝑚≠⊥∧(ep ′,𝑠′)∈ ¯𝑅:𝐶[ep ′,𝑠′]=𝑐:
45·If∀(ep ′′,𝑠′′)∈ ¯𝑅∪𝑅 ∗ :(ep ′′,𝑠′′)∉𝑋∨ep ′′ ∉XSK 𝑖:
46·Stop with1
47·Else:triv 𝑖←tru
48Else iftriv 𝑖 =fal∧ep R𝑖 <oos 𝑖
∧∃(ep′,𝑠′)∈ ¯𝑅:𝐶[ep ′,𝑠′]=𝑐:
49𝑅 𝑖
∪
←{(ep ′,𝑠′)}
50Return(id,𝑚)
OracleExpose S
51·XS
∪
←{(ep S,𝑠′)|𝑠 ′ >𝑠}
52·For all𝑖∈[𝑛]:XSK 𝑖
∪
←{ep S}
53Returnst S
OracleExpose R(𝑖)
54·XR 𝑖
∪
←{(ep ′,𝑠′)∉𝑅 𝑖|ep′ <ep R𝑖∧𝑠′∈N\{∞}}
55·XR 𝑖
∪
←{(ep ′,𝑠′)∉𝑅 𝑖|ep′ =ep R𝑖∧𝑠′∈N}
56Returnst R𝑖
Figure 5: Multi-receiver gamesAUTHfor A W schemeAW. Helper ProcedureRcvblis provided in Figure 4.
GameIND$𝑏
AE(A)
00𝑛←0;CH←∅;𝑋←∅
01𝑏 ′←$A
02RequireCH∩𝑋=∅
03Stop with𝑏 ′
OracleGen
04𝑘 𝑛←$ AE.gen
05𝑛←𝑛+1
06Return
OracleExpose(𝑖)
07𝑋
∪
←{𝑖}
08Return𝑘 𝑖
OracleEnc(𝑖,𝑚,ad)
09𝑐← $ AE.enc(𝑘𝑖,𝑚,ad)
10Return𝑐
OracleChall(𝑖,𝑚,ad)
11Require𝑚∈M
12𝑐 0←$ AE.enc(𝑘𝑖,𝑚,ad)
13𝑐 1←${0,1}|𝑐0|
14CH
∪
←{𝑖}
15Return𝑐 𝑏
Figure 6: Games IND$ for authenticated encryption scheme
with associated dataAE.
AdvIND
AW,fut,past[A]≤ (𝑞enc·(1+fut)+𝑞 H1)2
|CK| +(𝑞H2+𝑞 upS)2
|UK|
+𝑞H1·( 𝑞enc
|CK| + 𝑞upS
min(|CK|,|UK|) )+ (𝑞enc·(1+fut)+𝑞 H1)2
|T|
+AdvSUF-CMA
AE [B]+Adv IND$
AE [C],
GameSUF-CMA AE(A)
00𝑛←0;MC←∅;𝑋←∅
01InvokeA
02Stop with0
OracleGen
03𝑘 𝑛←$ AE.gen
04𝑛←𝑛+1
05Return
OracleExpose(𝑖)
06𝑋
∪
←{𝑖}
07Return𝑘 𝑖
OracleEnc(𝑖,𝑚,ad)
08𝑐← $ AE.enc(𝑘𝑖,𝑚,ad)
09MC←MC∪{(𝑖,𝑚,ad,𝑐)}
10Return𝑐
OracleDec(𝑖,ad,𝑐)
11𝑚←AE.dec(𝑘 𝑖,ad,𝑐)
12If(𝑖,𝑚,ad,𝑐)∉MC∧𝑚≠⊥∧𝑖∉𝑋:
13Stop with1
14Return𝑚
Figure 7: Game SUF-CMA for authenticated encryption
scheme with associated dataAE.
where𝑞enc,𝑞 dec,𝑞 upS are the number of queries to oracles Enc, Dec,
UpS, and𝑞H1,𝑞 H2 the number of queries to the random oraclesH 1, H2,
respectively.
We create a sequence of games from G0 to G6 given in Figure 10.
The random oraclesH 1 andH 2 in Figure 11 both offer an internal
interface for the game and an interface to the adversary.
Game 0.We start with the IND game for AW (Figure 1).
Advind
AW,fut,past[A]=Adv G0
A

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
GameSUF-CMA S(A)
00𝑛←0;MS←∅;CR←∅
01(𝑖,𝑚,𝜎)← $A
02𝑏←S.vfy(vk 𝑖,𝑚,𝜎)
03If(𝑖,𝑚,𝜎)∉MS∧𝑖∉CR∧𝑏=tru:
04Stop with1
05Stop with0
OracleCorrupt(𝑖)
06CR
∪
←{𝑖}
07Returnsk 𝑖
OracleGen
08(sk 𝑛,vk𝑛)← $ S.gen
09𝑛←𝑛+1
10Returnvk 𝑛−1
OracleSign(𝑖,𝑚)
11𝜎← $ S.sgn(sk𝑖,𝑚)
12MS
∪
←{(𝑖,𝑚,𝜎)}
13Return𝜎
Figure 8: GameSUF-CMAfor signature schemeS.
GameBIND C(A)
00(𝑚,𝑟,𝑚 ′,𝑟′)← $A
01If(𝑚,𝑟)≠(𝑚 ′,𝑟′)
∧cm=C.com(𝑚,𝑟)=C.com(𝑚 ′,𝑟′)
∧C.vfy(𝑚,cm,𝑟)=tru:
02Stop with1
03Stop with0
Figure 9: GameBINDfor commitment schemeC.
Game 1.We first introduce lazy sampling for the random oracle.
That means, the random oracle randomly generates a return value
whenever it is queried with a new input value. If this input is queried
again, the random oracle remains consistent and returns the initially
sampled value. This only changes the time of computation and thus
an adversary cannot distinguish between Game 0 and Game 1.
AdvG0
A =Adv G1
A
Game 2.In this game, we show that the probability of chain key
and update key collisions in the random oracle outputs is negligible.
If the random oracle samples a used chain key (update key) twice,
a loop occurs. This lets the adversary win if they, e.g., exposed
the first usage of the chain key, and then the chain key comes up
in another epoch and is used to obtain the encryption key for a
challenge. The number of chain keys which are used as input to
the random oracle is bounded by𝑞enc encryption queries plus at
most𝑞enc·fut queries for pre-computed values, and𝑞H1 adversarial
random oracle queries. Now assume the same update key is sampled
twice, once in epoch𝑖− 2, and once in epoch𝑖. The adversary could
expose at an earlier epoch𝑖− 2to obtain the update key. Epoch 𝑖 is
then considered unexposed, even if the adversary controls the input
chain key. Knowing the update key and the chain key, the adversary
can now query the random oracle to obtain the encryption keys.
The number of update keys is bounded by𝑞upS update queries and
𝑞H2 adversarial random oracle queries. With the birthday bound,
we obtain the following advantage to distinguish between Game 1
and Game 2.
AdvG1
A≤Adv G2
A+(𝑞enc·(1+fut)+𝑞 H1)2
|CK| +(𝑞H2+𝑞 upS)2
|UK|
Game 3.With this game, we show that the probability with
which the adversary correctly guesses a secret chain key (and up-
date key), and can thus query the random oracle for a decryption
key, is negligible. We implement this by aborting in the random
oracle whenever the adversary queries a secret value which the
game used before, or when the game arrives at a secret value which
was first queried by the adversary. For this, we set permissions for
each random oracle input through the map Status. When the adver-
sary is the first to query a value, we mark it with adv. Internally
generated (secret) values keep the empty flag (⊥). The exception for
when an adversary can query an internally used value is when they
exposed the sender or receiver state to obtain a chain key ck or set
the chain key ck in upS while knowing the update key uk. For this,
we introduce the flag allow which marks that the adversary may
query the respective input. We mark an entry withallow when the
sender is exposed (Lines 20 and 21), the receiver is exposed (Lines 26
to 29), or the adversary set the initial chain key in a sender update
and knows the next update key (Lines 12 and 13). Moreover, after
the adversary queried an internally used but “allow’ed” entry, they
may query the next entry (but they may not skip an entry). The
random oracle captures this by propagating the flag allow to the
next entry.
The adversary successfully distinguishes Game 2 and Game 3 if
they query the random oracle at an internally used chain key ck or
if they query an entry(ck,uk) used for a state update. In the first
case, the probability of guessing one of the chain keys from 𝑞enc
encryptions is 𝑞enc
|CK| . The probability of guessing the update query
pair(ck,uk) from𝑞upS update queries is
𝑞upS
|CK|+|UK| . If we assume
that the adversary knows one of the keys, we arrive at the upper
bound
𝑞upS
min(|CK|,|UK|) . An adversary which makes𝑞H1 queries to
the random oracles thus has the following advantage to distinguish
between Game 2 and Game 3.
AdvG2
A≤Adv G3
A+𝑞 H1·( 𝑞enc
|CK| + 𝑞upS
min(|CK|,|UK|) )
Observation for AAW. AAW uses a random value𝑟𝑏 derived
from the chain key to blind the signature. If the adversary knows
𝑟𝑏 they could use the verification key returned from AW.upS to
verify the signature by which they could determine whether the
ciphertext is a random string or a real encryption. The advantage
of such an adversary is negligible because of the following. The
adversary only knows this value if a (prior) chain key is exposed
in which case anonymity is lost anyway. Otherwise, they can only
learn this value by guessing the corresponding chain key (covered
in Game 3) or correctly guessing the𝑟𝑏 which functions as a one
time pad and is thus bounded by the number of encryptions𝑞enc
over the size of the space of random valuesR𝑏.
Game 4.We now show that the probability of tag collisions is
negligible. We bound the probability of tag collisions so that we
can unambiguously address SUF-CMA challengers in the following
game. The random oracle samples a tag whenever a new input is
queried. This happens in at most𝑞enc encryption queries plus fut
pre-computed values, and𝑞H1 adversarial queries to the random
oracle. Tag collisions are thus limited by the birthday bound in the
tag spaceT and the advantage to distinguish between games is as
follows.
AdvG3
A≤Adv G4
A+(𝑞enc·(1+fut)+𝑞 H1)2
|T|

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
GameIND𝑏
AW,past,fut(A)
00(ep S,(ep R𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])←0 1+𝑛
01(𝑠,(oos 𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])←∞ 1+𝑛
02(𝐾[·],VK[·],RC[·],CC[·])←⊥ 4
03((𝑅 𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛] ,𝑋,CH)←∅ 2+𝑛
04(st S,(st R𝑖)𝑖∈[𝑛])←⊥ 1+𝑛
05Status[·]←⊥ ≥𝐺3
06𝑏 ′←$A(𝜔)
07·RequireCH∩𝑋=∅
08Stop with𝑏 ′
OracleUp S(𝑘)
09Require𝑘∈K∪{⊥}
10·If𝑘≠⊥∧(ep S =0∨(ep S,𝑠)∈𝑋):
11·𝑋
∪
←{(ep S+1,𝑠 ′)|𝑠 ′∈N}
12(_,uk,_)←st S ≥𝐺3
13Status[𝑘,uk]←⊥ ≥𝐺3
14If𝑘=⊥:𝑘← $K
15ep S←ep S+1;𝑠←0
16(st S,vk)← $ AW.upS(stS,𝑘)
17𝐾[ep S]←𝑘;VK[ep S]←vk
18Returnvk
OracleExpose S
19·𝑋
∪
←{(ep S,𝑠′)|𝑠 ′ >𝑠}
20Status[st S.ck]←allow≥𝐺3
21Status[st S.cknxt]←allow≥𝐺3
22Returnst S
OracleExpose R(𝑖)
23·𝑋
∪
←{(ep ′,𝑠′)∉𝑅 𝑖|
ep′≤min(ep R𝑖,oos𝑖−1)}
24(ht,ST)←st R𝑖 ≥𝐺3
25ForidinST.Keys:≥𝐺3
26ck now←ST[id].ck now ≥𝐺3
27ck nxt←ST[id].ck nxt ≥𝐺3
28Status[ck now]←allow≥𝐺3
29Status[ck nxt]←allow≥𝐺3
30Fortag∈ht.Keys:≥𝐺5
31TX
∪
←{tag} ≥𝐺5
32Returnst R𝑖
OracleUp R(𝑖,id,𝑘,vk)
33Require𝑖∈[𝑛]∧𝑘∈K∪{⊥}
34Ifid=id ∗
𝑖∧ep R𝑖 <oos 𝑖:
35Require𝐾[ep R𝑖+1]≠⊥
36ep R𝑖←ep R𝑖+1
37·If𝑘∉{𝐾[ep R𝑖],⊥}
∨vk≠VK[ep R𝑖]≠⋄:
38·oos 𝑖←min(ep R𝑖,oos𝑖)
39Else ifep R𝑖 <oos 𝑖:𝑘←𝐾[ep R𝑖]
40st R𝑖←AW.up R(stR𝑖,id,𝑘,vk)
41Return
OracleEnc(𝑚,ch)
42Require𝑠<∞
43(st S,𝑐)← $ AW.encS(stS,𝑚)
44𝑠←𝑠+1;RC[ep S,𝑠]←𝑐;𝑐 ∗←𝑐
45(tag,𝑐 ′)←𝑐≥𝐺5
46TC[tag]←𝑐 ′ ≥𝐺5
47·Ifch:
48·If𝑏=1
∨𝑏=0:≥𝐺6
49·If𝑏=1:𝑐 ∗←$C
50·CH
∪
←{(ep S,𝑠)}
51(tag,_)←𝑐≥𝐺4
52If𝑇[tag]≠⊥: Abort≥𝐺4
53CC[𝑐 ∗]←𝑐
54Return𝑐 ∗
OracleDec(𝑖,𝑐)
55IfCC[𝑐]≠⊥:𝑐←CC[𝑐]
56(tag,𝑐 ′)←𝑐≥𝐺5
57(ht,ST)←st R𝑖 ≥𝐺5
58Iftag∈ht.Keys∧TC[tag]≠𝑐 ′ ≥𝐺5
∧tag∉TX:≥𝐺5
59Return⊥ ≥𝐺5
60(st R𝑖,id,𝑚)←AW.dec R(stR𝑖,𝑐)
61·If∃(ep ′,𝑠′)∈Rcvbl(𝑅 𝑖,RC,ep R𝑖,past,
fut):RC[ep ′,𝑠′]=𝑐∧ep R𝑖 <oos 𝑖:
62·𝑅 𝑖
∪
←{(ep ′,𝑠′)}
63Return(id,𝑚)
Figure 10: Game hops multi-receiver gamesINDfor A W schemeAW. The annotations≥𝐺𝑖indicate that the line is valid from
game𝑖and in all following games. Teal code is only relevant for AA W with sender authentication.
Game 5.In Game 5, we reduce the capabilities of the active
adversary to a passive adversary by enforcing that the adversary
cannot forge a valid ciphertext. We modify the game such that
decryption fails (i.e., the return value is⊥) when the decryption
oracle receives a ciphertext which is a non-trivial forgery, i.e., for
which the corresponding key was not leaked. We track the tags
whose keys are exposed through the set TX by adding tags on
receiver exposure and adversarial random oracle queries. To forbid
non-trivial forgeries, we first observe that the adversary needs to
submit a tag that is in the receiver state to trigger the decryption.
If the tag is in the receiver state and the submitted ciphertext is not
the one produced by the game, we simulate a failed decryption by
returning⊥. When a receiver is out-of-sync, there must have been
some input key which let the receiver state diverge from the sender
state. From this point on, the collision-free update key which is
sampled by the random oracle and cannot be determined by the
receiver enforces that an out-of-sync receiver cannot get back in-
sync with the receiver. Thus, if the game produces a tag using the
sender state, this tag will not appear in the receiver state after it
becomes out-of-sync and the decryption will fail. We note that the
adversary can also submit a forgery for the pre-computed tags in a
receiver state. For these forgeries, the adversary additionally has to
correctly guess a randomly sampled tag which would reduce their
win advantage by a factor of fut
|T| . The following reduction thus has
an upper bound.
We now reduce this change to the SUF-CMA security of the
underlying AEAD scheme. We use a multi-instance SUF-CMA game
where each encryption and decryption are forwarded to a SUF-
CMA challenger which is indexed with the respective tag. If a
distinguisher can detect the change between Game 4 and Game
5, that means they can create a valid ciphertext forgery and thus
break the SUF-CMA security of the underlying AEAD scheme. Note
that whenever we address a SUF-CMA challenger in the reduction,
we can do this unambiguously through the tag since we ruled out
tag collisions in Game 4. This also means that multiple receivers
which store the same tag communicate with the same SUF-CMA
challenger.
•Enc : Forward the message and associated data to the en-
cryption oracle of a new challenger. Use the tag derived

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
OracleH 1,adv(ck)
00(ck nxt,mk,tag,𝑟,𝑟 𝑏)←H 1[ck,uk]
01If(ck nxt,mk,tag,𝑟,𝑟 𝑏)≠⊥ 5∧Status[ck]=⊥: Abort≥𝐺3
02If(ck nxt,mk,tag,𝑟,𝑟 𝑏)=⊥ 5:
03(ck nxt,mk,tag,𝑟,𝑟 𝑏)← $CK×K×T×UK×R×R 𝑏
04IfTK[tag]≠⊥: Abort≥𝐺4
05TK[tag]←mk≥𝐺4
06Ifck nxt∈H 1.Keys: Abort≥𝐺2
07Ifuk nxt∈𝑈\{⊥}: Abort≥𝐺2
08IfStatus[ck]=⊥:Status[ck]←adv
09H 1[ck]←(ck nxt,mk,tag,𝑟,𝑟 𝑏)
10IfStatus[ck]=allow:Status[ck nxt]←allow≥𝐺3
11TX
∪
←{tag} ≥𝐺5
12Return(ck nxt,mk,tag,𝑟,𝑟 𝑏)
OracleH 2,adv(ck,uk,vk)
13(ck nxt,uk nxt)←H 2[ck,uk,vk]
14If(ck nxt,uk nxt)≠⊥ 2∧Status[ck,uk,vk]=⊥: Abort≥𝐺3
15If(ck nxt,uk nxt)=⊥ 2:
16(ck nxt,uk nxt)← $CK×UK
17Ifck nxt∈H 2.Keys: Abort≥𝐺2
18Ifuk nxt∈𝑈\{⊥}: Abort≥𝐺2
19𝑈
∪
←{uk nxt} ≥𝐺2
20IfStatus[ck,uk,vk]=⊥:Status[ck,uk,vk]←adv
21H 2[ck,uk,vk]←(ck nxt,mk,tag,uk nxt)
22IfStatus[ck,uk,vk]=allow:Status[ck nxt,uk nxt,vk]←allow≥𝐺3
23Return(ck nxt,uk nxt)
OracleH 1(ck)
24(ck nxt,mk,tag,𝑟,𝑟 𝑏)←H 1[ck,uk]
25IfStatus[ck]=allow∧Status[ck nxt,uk nxt]=adv:≥𝐺3
26Status[ck nxt]←allow≥𝐺3
27IfStatus[ck]=adv: Abort≥𝐺3
28If(ck nxt,mk,tag,𝑟,𝑟 𝑏)=⊥ 5:
29(ck nxt,mk,tag,𝑟,𝑟 𝑏)← $CK×K×T×UK×R×R 𝑏
30Ifuk=⊥:uk nxt←⊥
31IfTK[tag]≠⊥: Abort≥𝐺4
32TK[tag]←mk≥𝐺4
33Ifck nxt∈H 1.Keys: Abort≥𝐺2
34H 1[ck]←(ck nxt,mk,tag,𝑟,𝑟 𝑏)
35Return(ck nxt,mk,tag,𝑟,𝑟 𝑏)
OracleH 2(ck,uk,vk)
36(ck nxt,uk nxt)←H 2[ck,uk,vk]
37IfStatus[ck,uk,vk]=allow∧Status[ck nxt,uk nxt,vk]=adv:≥𝐺3
38Status[ck nxt,uk nxt,vk]←allow≥𝐺3
39IfStatus[ck,uk,vk]=adv: Abort≥𝐺3
40If(ck nxt,uk nxt)=⊥ 2:
41(ck nxt,uk nxt)← $CK×UK
42Ifck nxt∈H 2.Keys: Abort≥𝐺2
43Ifuk nxt∈𝑈\{⊥}: Abort≥𝐺2
44𝑈
∪
←{uk nxt} ≥𝐺2
45H 2[ck,uk,vk]←(ck nxt,uk nxt)
46Return(ck nxt,uk nxt)
Figure 11: External and internal random oracles for the proof in Section C.1. The annotations ≥𝐺𝑖 indicate that the line is valid
from game𝑖and in all following games. Teal code is only relevant for AA W with sender authentication.
from the chain key to associate the index of the SUF-CMA
challenger with the tag. Use the challenger’s encryption as
ciphertext and the derivedtagas return value.
•Dec : Look up the tag attached to the ciphertext in the re-
ceiver’s hash table. If the tag is in the state, disregard the
message key in the state and instead forward the decryption
to the SUF-CMA challenger whose index corresponds to
tag to obtain the decrypted messagem. Otherwise, there is
no key material for the submitted ciphertext in the receiver
state and the decryption fails, i.e.,m ←⊥ . Sendmto the
distinguisher.
• Random Oracle: For all entries which the adversary queries,
take the tag which the random oracle generates, corrupt
the challenger whose index corresponds to tag to obtain
mkand programmkinto the random oracle.
•Expose R: Corrupt all SUF-CMA challengers whose index
corresponds to a tag in the receiver state to obtain the keys
mk. Embed all mk in the respective positions in the receiver
state and also in the random oracle. Note that the adversary
exposes only one receiver state at a time. Thus, while the
exposed key material may be in other receiver states as
well, the adversary only ever sees the other receiver states
when they explicitly expose them. We can therefore lazily
program the other receiver states on exposure.
•Expose S: As the sender state exposure only reveals chain
keys and not message keys, we do not need to corrupt any
SUF-CMA challenger here. All corruptions on adversarial
queries are handled through the random oracle.
The advantage of a distinguisher to detect the change between
Game 4 and Game 5 is bounded by the advantage of an adversaryB
which plays the multi-instance SUF-CMA game against the AEAD
scheme.
AdvG4
A≤Adv G5
A+Adv SUF-CMA
AE [B]
Game 6.In this game hop, we replace the real challenge cipher-
text with a random ciphertext to arrive in the random world where
an adversary has no advantage of winning the IND game. Note
that a receiver, after they become out-of-sync, will never have key
material for a challenge ciphertext in their state, as we prevented
key collisions and thus the update key enforces that sender and re-
ceiver diverge. We reduce detecting this change to a multi-instance
AEAD-IND$ game, which means that a successful distinguisher
between Game 5 and Game 6 can break the IND$ of the underlying
AEAD scheme. The reduction is as follows.
•Enc : On a challenge encryption, derive the tag through the
random oracle and forward the message to the encryption
interface of a new AEAD challenger along with the tag
as associated data. Save the message and tag. Proceed as
before on non-challenge encryptions.
•Dec : When receiving a decryption query, check if the tag
corresponds to a prior challenge encryption. If yes, find
the corresponding message and send it to the distinguisher.
Otherwise, the decryption oracle remains unchanged.
• The other oracles are not affected and provide the usual
interfaces to the distinguisher. That is because we do not
allow state exposures or key updates which reveal key ma-
terial for challenge ciphertexts.
The advantage of a distinguisher to detect the change between
Game 5 and Game 6 is bounded by the advantage of an adversary

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
C which plays the multi-instance IND$ game against the AEAD
scheme.
AdvG5
A≤Adv G6
A+Adv IND$
AE [C]
In the end, we arrive at the game where the adversary always
obtains random ciphertexts andA’s best strategy is to guess the
bit𝑏, i.e.,Adv G6
A =0.
C.2 Game-based Authenticity
Game AUTH in Figure 5 captures that it should be hard for an
adversary to submit a non-trivial forgery. In the following, we first
show that AW satisfies the basic AUTH definition. Then, we show
that AAW satisfies the extended definition AUTHAAW which also
captures exposures of the signing key.
Theorem C.2.Let AE be an AEAD scheme andH 1, H2 random
oracles. LetA be an adversary against the AUTH security of the AW
scheme with parameters fut,past . LetB be an adversary against
the SUF-CMA security of the AEAD scheme. Let CK ,UK , andT
denote the chain key space, update key space, and tag space, respec-
tively. We show that our AW construction is secure with respect to
AUTHAW,fut,past such that
AdvIND
AW,fut,past[A]≤ (𝑞enc·(1+fut)+𝑞 H1)2
|CK| +(𝑞H2+𝑞 upS)2
|UK|
+𝑞H1·( 𝑞enc
|CK| + 𝑞upS
min(|CK|,|UK|) )+ (𝑞enc·(1+fut)+𝑞 H1)2
|T|
+AdvSUF-CMA
AE [B],
where𝑞enc,𝑞 dec,𝑞 upS are the number of queries to oracles Enc, Dec,
UpS, and𝑞H1,𝑞 H2 the number of queries to the random oraclesH 1, H2,
respectively.
Proof for AW.Let AUTH′
AW be the game for AW where line 45
is always false and thus line 47 always applies, such that the adver-
sary never wins the game. To detect this change, we prove that a
distinguisher would need to create a non-trivial ciphertext forgery,
i.e., a forgery where the corresponding key has not been exposed.
First, we observe that an adversary could create such a forgery if
they learn the encryption key through other means than exposure.
That is, like in the IND proof, if the adversary correctly guesses the
input to the random oracle or if there are any key or tag collisions
in the random oracle. We can bound this probability like Game 1-4
in the proof for IND. Now, the distinguisher can only detect the
change if they successfully hand in a forgery against the underly-
ing AEAD scheme. To show that a distinguisher between AUTH
and AUTH′ would break the SUF-CMA security of the underlying
AEAD scheme, we use the reduction from Game 5 in theIND game.
We note that, in the IND proof, we argued that once a receiver be-
comes out-of-sync, their future key material will never be in-sync
again with the sender. Thus, submitting a forgery against an out-of-
sync receiver is irrelevant since we do not enforce anyIND security
guarantees for the ciphertexts which are sent with out-of-sync key
material. In contrast, theAUTH definition enforces that ciphertexts
also cannot be forged against receivers which are out-of-sync with
the sender. Note that we enforce that if two receivers diverge with
the same keys, exposing one of them also exposes the other one,
thus making a forgery against both of them trivial. Overall, the
advantage of an adversary against AUTHAW corresponds to the ad-
vantage of a distinguisher between AUTHAW and AUTH′
AW which
is bounded by the accumulated advantage of the distinguishers
from Game 1 to Game 5 in theINDproof.
Theorem C.3.Let AE be an AEAD scheme andH 1, H2 random
oracles. LetA be an adversary against the AUTH security of the AAW
scheme with parameters fut,past . LetB be an adversary against
the AUTH security of the AW scheme with parameters fut,past .
LetC be an adversary against the BIND security of the Commitment
scheme. LetD be an adversary against the SUF-CMA security of the
Signature scheme. LetCK ,UK , andT denote the chain key space,
update key space, and tag space, respectively. We show that our AW
construction is secure with respect toAUTH AW,fut,past such that
AdvAUTH
AAW,fut,past[A]≤Adv AUTH
AW,fut,past[B]
+Advbind
C [C]+Adv suf-cma
S [D].
Proof for AAW.Now, we show that AAW satisfies the extended
AUTHAAW definition. The extended definition says that it is hard
for an adversary to forge a ciphertext even if either the AEAD key
or the signing key are compromised. To bound the advantage of an
adversary to win AUTHAAW, we start with an adversaryA playing
the AUTHAAW game. Then, we modifyAUTHAAW in two hops such
that finally, the adversary has no winning advantage, i.e., Line 45 is
always false. We make the following case distinction. If both AEAD
key and signing key are compromised, no security guarantees hold.
If neither key is compromised, the adversary is bounded by the
smaller advantage of both breaking security of the AEAD scheme
(see above) or breaking the singature and commiment scheme (as
described in the following). If for a ciphertext 𝑐 the signing key
is compromised and the AEAD key is not (i.e., the sender was
compromised after sending𝑐), the proof for AAW corresponds to
the AUTH proof for AW. In case the AEAD key is compromised and
the signing key is not (i.e., the receiver was compromised but not
the sender which holds the signing key; and the verification key
for the receiver was not set by the adversary), we can reduce the
detection of this change to breaking the security of the underlying
commitment and signature scheme. Note that we only need to
consider the case where the adversary submits a non-trivial forgery
against the verification key which corresponds to the sender’s (non-
exposed) signing key because of the following observation. The
receiver initially stores commitments for the verification key vk
given via AW.upR. If vk was chosen by the adversary in AW.upR,
then there are no security guarantees for the signature. Otherwise,
vk given through AW.upR corresponds to the sender’s signing key.
Since the receiver does not store vk in the state but only holds it
in memory while running AW.upR and AW.decR to pre-compute
commitments. If the adversary sent some vk′ which got accepted
by the receiver, then the receiver would use thisvk′ to pre-compute
commitments. But for this event to occur, the adversary would
need to create a non-trivial forgery against vk in the first place (or
trivial forgery) through which they already win the AUTH game
(or looses the ability to win).
First, we prove that if the adversary attempts to submit a signa-
ture forgery, it has to be a forgery against the verification key for

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
which the receiver stores the commitment. Let AUTH′
AAW be the
game where we abort if the adversary sends a(vk′,𝑟′) which is not
the same(vk,𝑟) used for the commitment. To implement this game
hop, we create a mapping from tags to pairs of(vk,𝑟) . When the
receiver pre-computes tags and the openings𝑟 of commitments for
a given verification key vk, we store for each tag the corresponding
pair(vk,𝑟) . When the receiver now successfully decrypts a cipher-
text and obtains(vk′,𝑟′), we look up the stored(vk,𝑟) and abort if
(vk′,𝑟′)≠(vk,𝑟) . A distinguisher can only differentiate between
AUTH and AUTH′
AAW if they find a(vk′,𝑟′)≠(vk,𝑟) which breaks
the binding securityBIND C of the commitment scheme.
The advantage of a distinguisher to differentiate betweenAUTHAAW
and AUTH′
AAW is bounded by the advantage of an adversary C
against the binding security BINDC of the commitment scheme as
follows.
AdvAUTH
A,AAW≤Adv AUTH′
A,AAW+Adv bind
C [C]
Second, we prove that the adversary cannot forge a valid sig-
nature for the verification key vk or otherwise they break the un-
derlying commitment scheme. We modify AUTH′
AAW such that the
condition in Line 45 (Figure 5) is always false and call this game
AUTH′′
AAW. Since we enforced that the adversary has to submit
the forgery against the honest verification key, a successful distin-
guisher between AUTH′
AAW and AUTH′′
AAW breaks the SUF-CMA
security of the underlying signature scheme. The reduction for a
distinguisher between AUTH′ and AUTH′′ plays against a multi-
instance SUF-CMA challenger as follows:
•Up S: Obtain the verification key vk provided by a new SUF-
CMA challenger, embed vk in the sender state, and return
vk.
•Enc : Forward the encrypted ciphertext and tag to the sign-
ing oracle of the current SUF-CMA challenger. Attach the
challenger’s signature to the returned ciphertext.
•Expose S: Corrupt the current SUF-CMA challenger to ob-
tain the signing keysk. Embedskin the sender state.
The advantage of a distinguisher to differentiate betweenAUTHAAW
and AUTH′′
AAW is bounded by the advantage of an adversary D
against the SUF-CMA security of the signature scheme as follows.
AdvAUTH′
A,AAW≤Adv AUTH′′
A,AAW+Adv suf-cma
S [D]
Through GameAUTH′′ we prohibited the adversary from win-
ning and thusAdv AUTH′′
A,AAW =0.
C.3 Adding a Group Member
Figure 12 shows the functions for adding a user to an existing
group. The sender extracts a screenshot of its current key material
through AW.addS which the new user uses to initialize their state
withAW.join R.
D Ideal Functionality for State Anonymity
The ideal functionality,FAW, is formally defined in Figures 13 and 14.
This functionality captures multiple senders 𝑆𝑖∈[𝑛] and multiple
receivers𝑅𝑗∈[𝑚] , where each sender𝑆𝑖 communicates with a fixed
subset of receivers, denoted by𝐺[𝑖]=𝑔 𝑖⊆[𝑚].
ProcAW.add S(st=(tag end,ck,uk,sk,vk,vk prv))
00Returnkeys=(ck,uk,vk)
ProcAW.join R(st,keys=(ck,uk,vk),id)
01Ifst=⊥:ST[·]←⊥,ht←HT.init()
02𝐿 prv,𝐿 now,𝐿 nxt←LL.init() 3
03For all𝑖: 0≤𝑖<past:
04insertDummy new(𝐿prv,ht)
05ck nxt←⊥
06(ck now,uk nxt)←(ck,uk)
07For all𝑖: 0≤𝑖<fut:
08addEntry new(𝐿now,ht,ck now,vk)
09ST[id]←(ck now,ck nxt,uk nxt,𝐿 prv,𝐿 now,𝐿 nxt)
10Returnst=(ht,st)
Figure 12: Functions for adding a group member in A W
scheme AW. Teal code is only relevant for AA W with sender
authentication. The functions addEntry and insertDummy are
shown in Figure 2.
First, we describe the update commands (in Figure 14). When a
sender𝑆𝑖 wishes to update their state, they send toFAW command
UpS. As a result,FAW, stores the last encryption key identifier for
the current epoch, ep (i.e., the index of the last message sent in
this epoch). It then updates𝑆𝑖’s epoch to ep+ 1and registers 𝑆𝑖’s
current chain key identifier to reflect the new epoch, via dictio-
nary Ck: Ck[𝑆𝑖]←(ep, 0). On the receiver side, when receiver𝑅𝑗
wishes to update their state corresponding to Sender𝑆𝑖, they send
toFAW command UpR(𝑖) . If this is the first time UpR(𝑖) has been
received from𝑅𝑗 ,FAW adds past+fut dummy key identifiers to
the receiver’s state (Note that these dummy keys are synchronized
for each receiver in𝑔𝑖 for this session, via dictionary Du𝑝).FAW also
registers that the receiver has obtained key material for the new
epoch in dictionary Up and registers that the first fut encryption
key identifiers for the new epoch as well as the fut-th chain key
identifier for the new epoch are in the receiver’s state.
We note that to facilitate updates, we implicitly assume that any
protocol instantiatingFAW will need to use some internal mecha-
nism to sample fresh keys𝑘ep, where for each sender𝑆𝑖, they and all
receivers𝑅𝑗∈𝑔𝑖 must be able to obtain the same key𝑘ep for each
epoch ep. This can be facilitated, e.g., by using a sub-functionality
Fkey for each sender𝑆𝑖 and associated𝑔𝑖, which keeps a separate
epoch counter for𝑆𝑖 and each𝑅𝑗∈𝑔𝑖, and delivers key𝑘ep to those
parties who have already received the keys for epochs ep′ <ep ,
when requested. As written earlier, we consider the actual protocol
for sampling and delivering these keys to parties out of scope for
this work.
Now we explain how messages are sent (Figure 13). Sender𝑆𝑖
uses command Send, to send a message𝑚. The functionalityFAW
first retrieves𝑆𝑖’s current chain key identifier that it has stored,
and assigns it to the message via dictionary M, then increments𝑆𝑖’s
current chain key identifier. Note that we do not send any informa-
tion to the simulatorS when𝑆𝑖 sends a message. Indeed, in order
to analyze the anonymity that AW cancyptographicallyachieve,
we choose not to model any consequences ofnetworkobservation
that can lead to de-anonymization, and instead assume idealized
channels that reveal nothing about what is sent/received or by/to
whom. Note that we still allow the adversary to leak ciphertexts

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
that are still stored on the delivery server via commandExposeDB
(see below).
Next, we describe how messages are received (in Figure 13). A
receiver𝑅𝑗 uses command Receive to download from the delivery
server all yet-unreceived messages from all sessions 𝑔𝑖 ∋𝑅 𝑗 of
which it is a part. First,FAW marks each such message as delivered
to𝑅𝑗 . If𝑅𝑗 does not have the key identifier stored for any of these
messages, which can occur if, e.g., the message is too old or too many
messages have been skipped, the message will not be delivered to
𝑅𝑗 . Then,FAW checks to which epoch each message belongs. If the
given message belongs to the epoch following the one that 𝑅𝑗 is
currently in for this session,FAW advances the receiver to the next
epoch, registers the first fut encryption key identifiers for the new
epoch as well as the fut-th chain key identifier for the new epoch
in the receiver’s state, and finally removes the oldest key identifiers
(including dummies) from the receiver state until only the newest
past+fut identifiers remain. Else if the message corresponds to
one of the newest fut keys stored for this epoch, the next fut
encryption key identifiers are registered in the receiver’s state, the
chain key identifier is updated, and the oldest key identifiers from
the receiver state are removed until only the newest past+fut or
past+ 2·fut identifiers remain (depending on if the receiver has
key material for the next epoch or not, respectively). Otherwise,
the message corresponds to one of the oldestpast keys. In all cases,
the message’s key identifier is removed from the receiver state.
In the last case, it is replaced by a dummy identifier. Finally,FAW
deletes the messages from the delivery server which have now
been delivered to all intended receivers and then delivers the above
processed messages to 𝑅𝑗 . Note again: since we want to model
cryptographicanonymity, we do not send any information to S
upon this delivery.
Now we discuss adversarial actions which can be taken by S
(in Figure 14). First, command DropRandom(𝑥) instructsFAW to
randomly drop𝑥% of the messages which have been sent by some
𝑆𝑖 but not yet received by all𝑅𝑗∈𝑔𝑖. We include this command to
model random network drops. Next, commandExposeDBis used
byS to expose the ciphertexts that are still stored on the delivery
server. This command of course reveals toS all such ciphertexts
and marks them as exposed, but also, if a chain key was previously
exposed for the epoch in which such a ciphertext was created,
FAW gives information about how the ciphertext’s encryption key
was derived from that chain key. This matches the logic that the
real world adversary would be able to trial decrypt this ciphertext
with all encryption keys that can be derived from the chain keys it
posseses. Additionally,S can instructFAW to drop some messages
that it received through such anExposeDBcommand by using
commandDrop.
Now, we discuss state exposures. The simulatorS uses command
ExposeR(𝑗) to expose receiver𝑅𝑗 . FunctionalityFAW first colects
all key identifiers marked as stored in 𝑅𝑗 ’s state. Importantly, if
any of those keys correspond to a ciphertext that was leaked by
anExposeDBcommand when the key had not previously been
leaked,FAW aborts the command (in order to avoid the committ-
ment problem, see, e.g., [AJM22] and the references theirein). Then
FAW marks those key identifiers as exposed, and if any older chain
key from the epoch in which a key was created was exposed,FAW
collects information for how that key was derived from that older
chain key. Also,FAW marks all keys which can be derived from
the current chain key as exposed. Finally,FAW adds to the above
stored key identifiers any dummies stored in𝑅𝑗 ’s state and sends
all the collected information toS. Similarly,S can use command
ExposeS(𝑖) to expose sender𝑆𝑖. FunctionalityFAW does much of
the same as above; collecting derivation information from any chain
keys leaked in the past to the one currently held and marking those
encryption key identifiers that can be derived from the current
chain key as exposed. However,FAW also marks𝑆𝑖’s signing key of
the current epoch as exposed before leaking toS the current chain
key identifier, the collected deriviation information, and the key
identifier of the last key from𝑆𝑖’s previous epoch.
Finally,S can use commandInjectto change the message con-
tents of any ciphertext (i) for whichS has the corresponding en-
cryption key thoughExposeRorExposeS, (ii) for which S has
the corresponding signing key through the latter, and (iii) which
has not already been delivered to all receivers.
E Artifact Appendix
E.1 Abstract
This artifact appendix describes how to install and test the programs
used to to implement and evaluate protocols in this paper, and how
to run tests to verify the specific claims.
E.2 Description and Requirements
E.2.1 Security, privacy, and ethical concerns.None.
E.2.2 How to access.The artifact [ Sch25] is packaged in an archive
accessible at https://zenodo.org/records/16929590.
E.2.3 Hardware dependencies.None.
E.2.4 Software dependencies.This artifact requires the following
software dependencies:
•Rust 1.88.0 : On Unix-like systems, the rust toolchain can
be installed withrustupusing the command:
curl --proto'=https'--tlsv1.2 \\
-sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
To install the specific version, you can run:
rustup install 1.88.0
rustup default 1.88.0
but be aware that this will override the default version of
Rust on your system, affecting other Rust projects. The tests
are likely to work with earlier versions of Rust, but have
not been tested.
•protoc: Available at
https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/releases. On
Debian, it can be installed using the command:
apt-get install protobuf-compiler
E.2.5 Benchmarks.None.

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
On Ideal FunctionalityF AW Initialization Init(𝑛,𝑚,𝐺):
InitializesFAW with𝑛 senders𝑆𝑖∈[𝑛] and𝑚 receivers𝑅𝑗∈[𝑚] ;𝐺[𝑖]=𝑔 𝑖⊆[𝑚] specifies that sender𝑆𝑖 communicates with receivers𝑅𝑗∈𝑔𝑖 .
Note that a sender id 𝑖 now describes a session which includes the sender and its receivers. FAW interacts with senders, receivers and
simulatorS, and stores variables:
•Ep[𝑆 𝑖]/Ep[𝑅 𝑗][𝑖]←−1: current epoch of sender𝑆 𝑖 / receiver𝑅 𝑗 in session𝑖
•Up[𝑅 𝑗][𝑖]←−1: receiver𝑅 𝑗 ’s next epoch after a state update in session𝑖
•K[𝑖][ep][𝑠] : map of keys, where each key is uniquely described through session𝑖, epoch ep, and index𝑠; this describes both encryption
keys and chain keys. The key in a sender state is always a chain key. In a receiver state, the newest key in the current epoch and
potentially the upcoming epoch are chain keys, all others are encryption keys.A key (𝑖,ep,𝑠) is newer than a key (𝑖,ep′,𝑠′) if
ep>ep ′∨ep=ep ′∧𝑠>𝑠 ′.Kalso stores the following attributes for all𝑖,ep,𝑠.
–K[𝑖][ep][𝑠].rkid← $KID: random unique key identifier which is leaked toS
–K[𝑖][ep][𝑠].X←fal: indicates whether the key is exposed
–K[𝑖][ep][𝑠].stR 𝑗←fal: indicates whether receiver𝑅 𝑗 has the key in its state
•M[mid]: map of messages, where
–M[mid].m←⊥: messagem
–M[mid].key←⊥ 3: key described through(𝑖,ep,𝑠)used to encrypt the message
–M[mid].hasC←fal: indicates whether the simulator has simulated a ciphertext without knowing the associated key
–M[mid].p 𝑅𝑗←fal: indicates whether the message has been processed by𝑅 𝑗
–M[mid].X←fal: indicates whether themidhas been exposed toS
•Ck[𝑆 𝑖]←⊥ 2/Ck[𝑅 𝑗][𝑖]←∅ : current chain key/keys specified by(ep,𝑠) of sender𝑆𝑖 / receiver𝑅𝑗 in session𝑖 // receiver may have
multiple keys in its state after an update
•NE[𝑖][ep]←⊥: index𝑠of newest exposed chain key in session𝑖and epochep
•Lk[𝑖][ep]←⊥: index𝑠of sender𝑖’s last encryption key from epochep
•XSK[𝑖][ep]←fal: indicates whether sender𝑖’s signing key for epochepwas exposed
•Du[𝑅 𝑗][𝑖]←[] : list of dummy key identifiers rkid for receiver𝑅𝑗 in session𝑖. When dummy keys are treated as part of the receiver
state, the dummy keys are considered the oldest key material, i.e., the keys which are discarded first.
•On Send(mid,m) from𝑆 𝑖:
–skip ifM[mid]≠⊥
–obtain current sender key(𝑖,ep,𝑠)←Ck[𝑆 𝑖]and assign it to the messageM[mid].key←(𝑖,ep,𝑠),M[mid].m←m
–update sender’s chain key:Ck[𝑆 𝑖]←(ep,𝑠+1)
•On Receive(𝑅 𝑗 ) from𝑅 𝑗 :
– create set of messages Ms←∅ to be delivered to𝑅𝑗 . Process all messages mid∈M which are sent to a group where 𝑅𝑗 is a
member, i.e., the message’s associated key(𝑖,ep,𝑠)←M[mid].keyis from a session𝑖:𝑗∈𝑔 𝑖.
∗first, indicate that the message was processed by𝑅 𝑗 :M[mid].p 𝑅𝑗←tru
∗skip to next message if no key material formidis in the receiver state (K[𝑖][ep][𝑠].stR 𝑗 =fal)
∗ if the receiver state was recently updated ( Up[𝑅𝑗][𝑖]=Ep[𝑅 𝑗][𝑖]+ 1) and the message is from the new epoch ( ep=
Up[𝑅𝑗][𝑖] ), advance receiver state to next epoch: Ep[𝑅𝑗][𝑖] ←Ep[𝑅𝑗][𝑖]+ 1. Then, remove the message’s key from
the receiver state ( K[𝑖][ep][𝑠].stR 𝑗 ←fal ) and include the next fut keys in the receiver state (∀𝑠<𝑠 ∗≤𝑠+fut :
K[𝑖][ep][𝑠 ∗]←tru ). Update the receiver’s set of chain keys (Ck[𝑅𝑗][𝑖]←{(ep,𝑠+fut)} ). Remove the oldest keys from
the receiver state and the dummiesDu[𝑖][𝑅 𝑗], until only the newestpast+futkeys remain.
∗ else if the message’s key is in the newest fut keys ((ep′,𝑠′) ←Ck[𝑅𝑗][𝑖]∧ep=ep ′∧𝑠′−fut≤𝑠<𝑠 ′), remove
the message’s key from the receiver state ( K[id][ep][𝑖].stR 𝑗 ←fal ) and include the next fut keys in the receiver
state (∀𝑖<𝑖 ′≤𝑖+fut : K[𝑖][ep][𝑠] ←tru ). Remove the receiver’s current chain key in ep and add the new key
(Ck[𝑅𝑗][𝑖]←Ck[𝑅 𝑗][𝑖]\{ep ′,𝑠′}∪{ep,𝑠+fut} ). If𝑅𝑗 does not have key material for the next epoch (|Ck[𝑖][𝑅 𝑗]|= 1),
then remove the oldest keys from the receiver state and the dummies Du[𝑖][𝑅 𝑗], until only the newest past+fut keys
remain. Otherwise, keep the next epoch’s pre-computed keys, i.e., remove until the newestpast+fut+futremain.
∗ otherwise, the key is in the oldest past keys. Then, remove the message’s key from the receiver state (K[𝑖][ep][𝑠].stR 𝑗←
fal) and add an entry to the dummy list:Du[𝑖][𝑅 𝑗]← $KID
∗add message to setMs:Ms
∪
←{mid}
– delete messages mid from M which are now processed by all intended receivers:∀𝑖∈[𝑛] :if∀𝑗∈𝑔 𝑖 : M[mid].p𝑅𝑗 =tru , set
M←M\M[mid]
–sendMsto𝑅 𝑗
Figure 13: Ideal functionalityF AW for A W schemeAW. Teal code is only relevant for AA W with sender authentication.

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
E.3 Set-up
With the Rust toolchain installed, the artifact can be built by open-
ing a shell in the root directory of the project and running the
following:
cd simple-aw-artifact && cargo build --release
This will compile the Rust code and produce an executable in the
simple-aw-artifact/target/releasedirectory.
E.3.1 Installation.Once compiled, no further installation is needed.
E.3.2 Basic test.To run all unit tests and verify the implementa-
tion:
cargo test
To run specific test suites:
# Test cryptographic primitives
cargo test -p signal-crypto
# Test protocol implementations, including Double
# Ratchet, Sender Keys, Sealed Sender, AW, and AAW
cargo test -p libsignal-protocol
# Test core utilities
cargo test -p libsignal-core
E.4 Evaluation workflow
Benchmark programs and tests are provided to reproduce all im-
plementation dependent claims in the paper.
E.4.1 Major Claims.The following claims are made in the paper,
and are supported by the experiments in this artifact:
(C1):AW and AAW have small communication cost overhead
when compared with Signal’s current Sealed Sender im-
plementation. Specifically, the paper reports the following
measured message sizes for plaintexts less than 16 bytes in
length:
•Sender Keys:109bytes
•AW-wrapped Sender Keys:157bytes
•AAW messages (using AAW as a standalone group
messaging protocol):155bytes
• Sealed Sender-wrapped Sender Keys:440+ 68𝑁 bytes
where𝑁is the group size.
•Double Ratchet:66bytes
•AW-wrapped Double Ratchet:114bytes
•Sealed Sender-wrapped Double Ratchet:441bytes
(C2): The computational time overhead for AW and AAW encryp-
tion and decryption are significantly smaller than the cor-
responding overhead for Sealed Sender. In the paper we
report the following numbers which came from tests on a
32-core Intel Core i9-14900K processor.
•Sender Keys:20.098𝜇𝑠(encrypt),31.201𝜇𝑠(decrypt)
• AW-wrapped Sender Keys:21.796𝜇𝑠 (encrypt),32.502𝜇𝑠
(decrypt)
•AAW messages (using AAW as a standalone group
messaging protocol):21.079𝜇𝑠 (encrypt),31.185𝜇𝑠 (de-
crypt)
• Sealed Sender-wrapped Sender Keys depends on group
size,𝑁:
–𝑁=2:131.12𝜇𝑠(encrypt),61.286𝜇𝑠(decrypt)
–𝑁=5:283.58𝜇𝑠(encrypt),61.286𝜇𝑠(decrypt)
–𝑁=10:343.41𝜇𝑠(encrypt),61.286𝜇𝑠(decrypt)
–𝑁= 100:1, 116.4𝜇𝑠 (encrypt),61.286𝜇𝑠 (decrypt)
–𝑁= 1000:6 , 052.5𝜇𝑠 (encrypt),61 .286𝜇𝑠 (de-
crypt)
• Double Ratchet:2.1979𝜇𝑠 (encrypt),2.7178𝜇𝑠 (decrypt)
• AW-wrapped Double Ratchet:3 .7412𝜇𝑠 (encrypt),
4.2402𝜇𝑠(decrypt)
• Sealed Sender-wrapped Double Ratchet:61.171𝜇𝑠 (en-
crypt),52.750𝜇𝑠(decrypt)
(C3): The computational cost of AW and AAW updates is signif-
icant compared to their encryption and decryption times.
Specifically, on the same Intel Core i9 test device AW was
measured to have a mean update time of1.5245𝑚𝑠 and AAW
was measured to have a mean update time of2.7591𝑚𝑠.
E.4.2 Experiments.This section provides instructions for repro-
ducing results that support the claims of the paper.
(E1): [Message Sizes] [1 human-minute + 1 compute-minute]: pro-
duce serialized messages for each protocol and measure its
size.
ExecutionExecute the command
cargo test aw -- --nocapture
Results To assess claim C1, review the message sizes for
the various protocol messages printed in the output
and compare them to those reported in the paper
(E2): [Computation time] [1 human-minute + 5 compute-minutes]:
benchmark the computation time required for encryption and
decryption in all protocols, and updates forAWandAAW.
ExecutionExecute the command
cargo bench --bench sealed_sender
Results A number of benchmark tests will run and statis-
tics will be reported after each test. To assess claim C2
look at the times reported for the following tests:
• Sender Keys baseline: sk/encrypt and
sk/decrypt.
•AW wrapping Sender Keys:aw-sk/encrypt and
aw-sk/ decrypt.
•AAW as standalone protocol: aaw/encrypt and
aaw/ decrypt.
• Sealed Sender wrapping Sender Keys:
v2/encrypt/
multirecipient/<N> reports encryption time
for groups of size 𝑁 , v2/decrypt reports de-
cryption time.
• Double Ratchet baseline: dr/encrypt and
dr/decrypt.
•AW wrapping Double Ratchet: aw-dr/encrypt
andaw-dr/decrypt.
• Sealed Sender wrapping Double Ratchet:
v1/encryptandv1/decrypt.

Lea Thiemt, Paul Rösler, Alexander Bienstock, Rolfe Schmidt, and Yevgeniy Dodis
To asses claim C3, look at benchmark results for
aw/updateandaaw/update.
Note that the precise times reported by these bench-
marks depend on the platform used for testing. The
claims in the paper are about the relative performance
of the evaluated protocols, and those differences should
be stable on different platforms even though the abso-
lute numbers will vary.
E.5 Notes on Reusability
This implementation was built as an experimental integration into
https://github.com/signalapp/libsignal, Signal Messenger’s core li-
brary. As libsignal is a special purpose library and is not designed
for general use, the implementations of AW and AAW are not easy
to reuse directly as packaged here. With that said, the files aw.rs
and aaw.rs have minimal dependencies and should be simple for a
developer to incorporate into a new project. The implementations
of the benchmarks and tests give direct examples of how the code
for both protocols can be used.
E.6 Contribution Note
Alex Bienstock did not contribute to the implementation of this
artifact.

Generic Anonymity Wrapper for Messaging Protocols
•On UpR(𝑖) from𝑅 𝑗 :
–skip if the receiver did not move to the next epoch after the last state update:Ep[𝑅 𝑗][𝑖]+1=Up[𝑅 𝑗][𝑖]
–indicate that the receiver has key material for an epoch update:ep=Up[𝑅 𝑗][𝑖]←Up[𝑅 𝑗][𝑖]+1
– if this is the first time key material is added to the receiver’s state, add past+fut dummies to the receiver state: For 𝑘 in
past+fut:Du[𝑖][𝑅 𝑗]← $KID
–include firstfutkeys of new epoch in receiver state:∀𝑠 ′ : 0≤𝑠 ′ <fut:K[𝑖][ep][𝑠 ′].stR𝑗←tru
–include new chain key in receiver state:Ck[𝑅 𝑗][𝑖]
∪
←{𝐾[𝑖][ep][fut]}
•On UpS from𝑆 𝑖:
–get current chain key(ep,𝑠)←Ck[𝑖]and set last encryption key for this epochLk[𝑖][ep]←𝑠
–update sender epoch:Ep[𝑆 𝑖]←ep+1
–update key in sender state for new epochep←Ep[𝑆 𝑖]:Ck[𝑆 𝑖]←(ep,0)
•On ExposeR(𝑗) fromS: Collect set of keysKs←∅and derivation infoDI[]←[]in each session𝑖:
– collect ordered list of randomized key identifiers in𝑅𝑗 ’s state:𝐾←[K[𝑖][ep][𝑠].rkid :∀ep,𝑠,K[𝑖][ep][𝑠].stR 𝑗 =tru] , add list
to the keys set:Ks
∪
←{𝐾}
For each of these keys (𝑖,ep,𝑠) : K[𝑖][ep][𝑠].rkid∈𝐾 , set K[𝑖][ep][𝑠].X←tru , then collect derivation info DI[rkid] as
follows:
∗ abortif this would reveal a key for a previously key-less simulated ciphertext: ∃mid : M[mid].key=(rkid,ep)∧
M[mid].hasC=tru
∗ if a prior chain key(𝑖,ep,𝑠 ′) from epoch ep was exposed (⊥≠𝑠 ′←NE[𝑖][ep]∧𝑠 ′ <𝑠 ), collect derivation info from
(𝑖,ep,𝑠 ′) to(𝑖,ep,𝑠) : DI[rkid]←[K[𝑖][ep][𝑠 ∗].rkid :𝑠′≤𝑠∗ <𝑠] . Then update the newest exposed key for this session
and epoch:NE[𝑖][ep]←𝑠
–set all keys which can be derived from the current chain key(s)(𝑖,ep,𝑠)as exposed:∀𝑠≤𝑠 ′ :K[𝑖][ep][𝑠 ′].X←tru
–prepend list of dummy identifiersDu[𝑖][𝑅 𝑗]to𝐾:𝐾←Du[𝑖][𝑅 𝑗]+𝐾
Send(Ks,DI)toS
•On ExposeS(𝑖) fromS:
–get the current chain key(ep,𝑠)←Ck[𝑆 𝑖]and its identifierrkid←K[𝑖][ep][𝑠].rkid
–initialize map for key derivation infoDI[]←[]
– if in the current epoch, a prior chain key(𝑖,ep,𝑠 ′) was exposed (⊥≠𝑠 ′←NE[𝑖][ep]∧𝑠 ′ <𝑠 ), collect derivation info from
(𝑖,ep,𝑠 ′) to(𝑖,ep,𝑠) : DI[rkid]←[K[𝑖][ep][𝑠 ∗].rkid :𝑠′≤𝑠∗ <𝑠] . Then update the highest exposed chain key for this session
and epoch:NE[𝑖][ep]←𝑠
–set all keys which can be derived from the current chain key(𝑖,ep,𝑠)as exposed:∀𝑠≤𝑠 ′ :K[𝑖][ep][𝑠 ′].X←tru
–set the sender’s signing key for this epoch as exposed:XSK[𝑖][ep]←tru
–find the key identifier of the last key from the previous epoch:rkid prv←K[𝑖][ep−1][𝑠 prv]where𝑠 prv←Lk[𝑖][ep−1]
–send (rkid,DI,rkid prv) toS
•On DropRandom(𝑥) fromS
–sample a random subset of messagesM ′⊆Mwhich contains𝑥%of the setMand remove these messages fromM:M←M\M ′
•On ExposeDB fromS:
–process all messagesmid∈Mto build a setMs←∅and key derivation infoDI[·]←[]as follows:
∗ (𝑖,ep,𝑠)←M[mid].key;m←M[mid].m;m ′←⊥;rkid ′←⊥
∗ifK[𝑖][ep][𝑠].X=tru:
·m ′←m;rkid ′←K[𝑖][ep][𝑠].rkid
· if a prior chain key(𝑖,ep,𝑠 ′) from epoch ep was exposed (⊥≠𝑠 ′←NE[𝑖][ep]∧𝑠 ′ <𝑠 ), collect derivation info from
(𝑖,ep,𝑠 ′) to(𝑖,ep,𝑠) : DI[rkid′]←[K[𝑖][ep][𝑠 ∗].rkid :𝑠′≤𝑠∗ <𝑠] . Then update the newest exposed exposed chain
key for this session and epoch:NE[𝑖][ep]←𝑠
∗otherwise, mark that there now exists a ciphertext formid:M[mid].hasC←tru
∗mark thatSknowsmid:M[mid].X←tru
∗Ms
∪
←{(mid,|m|,m ′,rkid′)}
–send𝑀,DItoS
•On Drop(mid) fromS:
–skip if themidhas not been shown toS(M[mid].X=fal)
–removemidfrom the messages:M←M\M[mid]
•On Inject(rkid,m) fromS:
–retrieve key information ((𝑖,ep,𝑠):K[𝑖][ep][𝑠].rkid=rkid) and corresponding message (mid:M[mid].key=(𝑖,ep,𝑠))
–skip ifK[𝑖][ep][𝑠].X=fal∨XSK[𝑖][ep]=fal∨∀𝑗:M[mid].p 𝑅𝑗 =tru
–otherwise, replace the corresponding messageM[mid].m=m
Figure 14: Ideal functionalityFAW for the anonymizing wrapper continued. Teal code is only relevant for AA W with sender
authentication.