Stadium: A Distributed Metadata-Private
Messaging System
Nirvan Tyagi
Cornell University
Yossi Gilad
Boston University
MIT CSAIL
Derek Leung
MIT CSAIL
Matei Zaharia
Stanford University
Nickolai Zeldovich
MIT CSAIL
ABSTRACT
Private communication over the Internet remains a challeng-
ing problem. Even if messages are encrypted, it is hard to
deliver them without revealing metadata about which pairs
of users are communicating. Scalable anonymity systems,
such as Tor, are susceptible to traffic analysis attacks that
leak metadata. In contrast, the largest-scale systems with
metadata privacy require passing all messages through a
small number of providers, requiring a high operational cost
for each provider and limiting their deployability in practice.
This paper presents Stadium, a point-to-point messaging
system that provides metadata and data privacy while scal-
ing its work efficiently across hundreds oflow-cost providers
operated by different organizations. Much like Vuvuzela,
the current largest-scale metadata-private system, Stadium
achieves its provable guarantees through differential privacy
and the addition of noisy cover traffic. The key challenge in
Stadium is limiting the information revealed from the many
observable traffic links of a highly distributed system, with-
out requiring an overwhelming amount of noise. To solve
this challenge, Stadium introduces techniques for distributed
noise generation and differentially private routing as well as
a verifiable parallel mixnet design where the servers collabo-
ratively check that others follow the protocol. We show that
Stadium can scale to support 4× more users than Vuvuzela
using servers that cost an order of magnitude less to operate
than Vuvuzela nodes.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies
are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that
copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights
for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must
be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific
permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China
© 2017 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed
to Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-5085-3/17/10.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3132747.3132783
CCS CONCEPTS
• Security and privacy → Pseudonymity, anonymity
and untraceability; Privacy-preserving protocols; Dis-
tributed systems security;
KEYWORDS
anonymous communication, differential privacy, mixnet, ver-
ifiable shuffle
1 INTRODUCTION
The continued prominence of anonymous whistleblowing
and private communication in world affairs means that these
issues, and the systems that enable them, have become an
integral part of society. As a result, there is substantial inter-
est in systems that offer strong privacy guarantees—often
against a global adversary with the ability to monitor and
inject network traffic, such as an ISP or nation-state.
Services such as WhatsApp, Signal, and Telegram have de-
ployed end-to-end encryption solutions to popular reception
from the public. Even so, encryption is only the first step
in protecting users’ communications. Although encryption
hides communication content, it does not hide metadata be-
cause adversaries can still learn who is communicating with
whom and at what times. Metadata reveals a great deal of
information; in fact, NSA officials have stated that “if you
have enough metadata, you don’t really need content” [39].
In recent years, researchers have made significant progress
in designing systems with provable protection against meta-
data leakage [1, 12, 14, 15, 45]. Despite the variation in solu-
tions, these past systems share a similar deployment strategy
and trust scheme that limits their scalability (with a few no-
table exceptions [1, 32], see §11). Specifically, in most of these
systems, a small set of providers carries out the anonymity
protocol, and users must trust that at least one provider in
the set is honest (i.e. “the anytrust assumption”).
This strategy limits the number of users these systems
can support in two main ways. First, because each individ-
ual provider is responsible for ensuring global privacy, each
provider’s workload increases proportionally with the total

SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China Tyagi et al.
number of users of the system (e.g., mixing messages sent by
all users). For example, Vuvuzela [45] reported exchanging
68,000 messages per second with 3 providers at a bandwidth
cost of 1.3 Gbps per provider, which would cost each provider
around $1,000 per month [36]. Second, users must trust one
of the system’s few participating providers. As the number
of users grows, it becomes hard to find a small set of organi-
zations for which the anytrust assumption holds for all users.
Relaxing this assumption by adding more providers quickly
degrades performance by raising costs that are at least linear
in the number of providers [14, 45]. In summary, these sys-
tems are restricted by a combination of a small number of
providers and a large operating cost per provider. We refer
to these systems as scaling vertically, in that providers must
run more infrastructure to support more users.
In contrast, the Tor network [ 18] is an example of an
anonymity system that scales horizontally. Tor consists of
thousands of commodity servers run by volunteer providers.
Instead of trusting any single provider, users trust that some
fraction of participating providers are honest. The total load
of all users on the system is distributed evenly across the
providers. Thus, the system scales to support more users with
the addition of new providers. However, Tor is vulnerable to
traffic analysis and injection attacks that can deanonymize
users and leak metadata [2, 7, 21, 30, 46].
This paper presents Stadium, a point-to-point messaging
system that uses a horizontally scaling deployment strat-
egy and provides provable privacy guarantees. We show
that Stadium scales to support up to 4 × more users than
previous systems with provable guarantees, using servers
whose operating costs are an order of magnitude smaller
than the equivalent Vuvuzela deployment. For example, at
a latency of 2 minutes, we find Stadium can support more
than 20 million simultaneous users with 100 providers, while
Vuvuzela [45], the current largest-scale metadata-private
system, is limited to 5 million. Additionally, Stadium’s ca-
pacity scales near-linearly with the number of participating
providers, i.e., adding a provider additively increases the total
number of users that can be supported.
Like Vuvuzela, Stadium uses differential privacy to bound
the metadata leakage of the system over time. Informally,
differential privacy can be thought of as “plausible deni-
ability. ” By observing the system, an adversary may gain
some small amount of statistical information in learning
the communication patterns of users (e.g. is Alice talking
to Bob?). Differential privacy bounds the information the
adversary can gain from these observations: the adversary’s
observations are almost equally likely to be caused by Alice
talking to Charlie, or Alice not talking to anyone. To provide
differential privacy, Stadium adds noise to the adversary’s
observations in the form of decoy message traffic.
Stadium mixes user messages and noise messages together
using a mixnet architecture, which takes as input a set of
messages and outputs a random permutation of those mes-
sages [8]. Furthermore, Stadium requires its mixnet to scale
horizontally. Messages must be distributed among providers
and mixed in parallel so that each provider only handles a
fraction of messages. Secure and efficient parallel mixing is
challenging due to the observable links between distributed
mixing servers; advanced traffic analysis techniques can be
used to trace messages [6].
We provide a differential privacy analysis of Stadium’s
mixnet routing to bound the information leaked through
traffic analysis. To meet the requirements of the differential
privacy model, we augment Stadium’s parallel mixnet with a
number of novel verifiable processing techniques, allowing
providers to verify that other providers are correctly relaying
and mixing messages. Providers are organized into small
groups called mixchains, and messages are distributed among
mixchains and mixed in parallel. The mixing and verification
workload of a provider is confined to the fraction of messages
that flow through its mixchain. As long as there exists a single
honest provider in each mixchain, Stadium achieves global
verification and mixing.
Stadium’s scalability does come with one significant caveat.
In order to achieve comparable privacy to previous systems,
Stadium requires both more noise and a higher computation
cost due to verifiable processing, which often translates into a
higher latency (several minutes vs. 30–60 seconds). Nonethe-
less, Stadium’s total bandwidth cost, which constitutes the
dominant monetary cost for providers, is within a factor of
1 to 3 of Vuvuzela, and Stadium can divide this cost across
hundreds of small providers. Therefore, we believe that Sta-
dium is a compelling new design point for metadata-private
messaging for two reasons: it can be deployed incremen-
tally using smaller providers, and it does not require a single
centralized anytrust set as in previous systems.
To summarize, our contributions are:
• The design for a horizontally scaling metadata-private
messaging system that can distribute work efficiently
across hundreds of servers.
• A novel verifiable parallel mixnet design that allows
participating providers to efficiently verify the correct-
ness of the mix, including techniques such as hybrid
verifiable shuffling, verifiable distribution, and intra-
mixchain verification.
• A privacy analysis of Stadium, including techniques for
designing distributed, differentially private systems,
such as the Poisson noise mechanism, routing network
analysis, and collaborative noise generation across mu-
tually untrusted servers.

Stadium: A Distributed Metadata-Private Messaging System SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China
• An implementation and experimental evaluation of
Stadium over a 100 server deployment on Amazon
EC2.
2 GOALS
In this section we present Stadium’s key design goals: provid-
ing private point-to-point messaging in the face of powerful
adversaries while scaling to tens of millions of users.
2.1 Threat Model
Stadium assumes an adversary that controls some fraction
of its providers’ servers. Adversary-controlled servers and
users may deviate in any way from Stadium’s protocol. We
allow the adversary to monitor, block, delay, or inject traffic
on any network link at all communication rounds. Servers
are arranged in mixchains, where each chain consists of
servers that belong to different providers which are unlikely
to collude; we assume that at least one server in every chain
follows the protocol.
In terms of availability, Stadium is not resistant to wide-
scale denial of service (DoS) attacks. This is unavoidable
given our assumption that adversaries can block traffic, which
allows them to disconnect servers and users from the net-
work. However, Stadium guarantees that any DoS attack will
not risk its users’ privacy.
Cryptographic assumptions and PKI. Stadium relies on
standard cryptographic assumptions. We assume secure pub-
lic and symmetric key encryption, key-exchange mecha-
nisms, signature schemes, and hash functions under the
random oracle model [4]. We further assume a public key
infrastructure, i.e., Stadium servers’ public keys are known
to its users, and that two communicating users hold a shared
key. One recent scalable system, Alpenhorn [34], provides a
service that allows two users to privately coordinate a shared
secret.
2.2 Privacy
Stadium has a similar privacy goal to Vuvuzela [45]. It aims
to prevent adversaries from distinguishing between com-
munication patterns of its users, even if the users exchange
many messages. We use the following definition from the
differential privacy literature to analyze Stadium’s privacy
guarantees [20]:
Definition 2.1. A randomized mechanism M is(ϵ,δ)-
differentially private if for any two adjacent inputs D and D′
and for all sets of outputs S, Pr[M(D)∈ S]≤ eϵ· Pr[M(D′)∈
S] +δ.
The inputs to the Stadium mechanism ( D and D′) are
the set of users’ communication actions in each round. We
consider two inputs adjacent if they differ only by one user’s,
Figure 1: Stadium overview. Users send messages for
a communication round. Stadium’s servers work to-
gether to shuffle the messages, verifying each other
for correctness. Shuffled messages are exchanged at
dead-drops and reversed through the system to the re-
cipient user.
say Alice’s, actions. One of the inputs represents Alice’s real
actions in a particular round (e.g., Alice sends a message to
Bob), while adjacent inputs represent hypothetical “cover
stories” (e.g., Alice is not talking to anyone). Real or not, the
differential privacy definition requires that all these stories
appear almost as plausible. In the above definition,ϵ andδ
bound the information that an adversary might learn about
Alice’s communication in each round. We design Stadium
to provide differential privacy such that ϵ andδ are small
enough to keep all other cover stories plausible even after
Alice sends hundreds of thousands of messages.
2.3 Scalability
Our scalability goal is to support tens of millions of simulta-
neous users on Stadium, which is comparable to the number
of Tor users. The scalability goal necessitates that the user
message load is distributed across servers and represents a
departure from previous metadata-private systems.
3 COMMUNICATION OVERVIEW
Communication through Stadium takes place in rounds. Ev-
ery fixed interval, a new round begins to process a set of
messages Stadium accumulated from its users. To provide
differential privacy of user communication patterns, Stadium
servers generate noise messages (i.e., cover traffic) which
are also input to the system when the round begins. All
messages are shuffled by Stadium’s distributed servers to
unlink them from their sender. Stadium borrows a dead-
drop communication strategy from Vuvuzela [45] amenable
to provable differential privacy. Dead-drops are virtual loca-
tions, hosted on the system’s servers, that are associated with
the anonymous conversations taking place. Message destina-
tion dead-drops are revealed after the messages are shuffled.
When exactly two messages reach the same dead-drop in
a communication round, the server hosting that dead-drop

SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China Tyagi et al.
exchanges their contents. Finally, messages are sent back
through Stadium, where servers invert the shuffle and return
messages such that two messages exchanged at a dead-drop
reach their intended recipients. To ensure that observing a
user’s communication line does not leak whether they com-
municate, users send exactly one message every round, and
thus, receive exactly one message every round. If the user
does not communicate, a dummy message is sent which will
route back to the sender. An overview of Stadium’s design
is illustrated in Figure 1. In order to start communication,
Alice and Bob use a separate dialing protocol [34], assumed
as a precursor to our system (§2.1), which allows them to co-
ordinate a dead-drop for every round as well as a symmetric
key to encrypt the content of their communication.
4 PARALLEL MIXING CHALLENGES
A key challenge to Stadium’s design is in mixing messages se-
curely and efficiently. Traditional sequential mixnets, where
each server mixes all messages, fail to perform at Stadium’s
targeted scale. Instead, Stadium requires a parallel mixing
scheme, where each server processes only a fraction of the
input messages, yet the messages are still mixed globally. To
achieve this, most previous parallel mixing schemes [17, 19,
26, 38] use the same general pattern. Each server accepts a
small fraction of messages, mixes those messages, then splits
the messages among other servers. This process is repeated
for some number of cycles. Although at the beginning, mes-
sages are clearly partitioned by their starting server, they
are mixed globally over many cycles of splitting and mixing.
The primary difference between previous parallel mixing
schemes is in the chosen mixing topology. The mixing topol-
ogy specifies the links between servers at each depth, i.e.,
where servers collect messages from and where they distrib-
ute messages to after shuffling. Different mixing topologies
trade off between depth (number of mixing servers a mes-
sage passes through), switch size (number of incoming and
outgoing connections for each server), and, as we discuss
next, quality of mix.
Resistance to traffic analysis. It has been shown that most
previous parallel mixing schemes are susceptible to advanced
traffic analysis attacks [6]. These attacks use uneven distribu-
tions between servers to probabilistically model likely paths
for messages, depicted in Figure 2. Even if distributions are
forced to be uniform, e.g. by padding with dummy messages,
uneven distributions can be inferred if the adversary knows
the input-output relation of some messages. Essentially, these
attacks are able to trace back messages with some significant
probability, even after many cycles of mixing.
There are a few exceptions resistant to traffic analysis;
notably, the iterated butterfly topology [16] and the square
topology [28] both have theoretical results for achieving
Figure 2: Adversary gains probabilistic information
about Alice’s message path by observing an uneven
distribution of messages out of a server.
near-random permutations. However these results come at
the expense of relatively large depth, which is not suitable
to Stadium’s low latency messaging application. Instead, Sta-
dium opts for a shallow, but vulnerable, topology. Informa-
tion leakage in routing is identified and quantified with a
differential privacy analysis (§7,8). Note that noise messages
in Stadium serve two purposes: (1) protecting dead-drop
access patterns, and (2) protecting routing traffic patterns.
Deciding how to inject noise messages into the system
poses another challenge. If each server, in turn, adds and
shuffles in the total required amount of noise messages (as in
Vuvuzela [45]), the total processing cost of the system grows
quadratically in the depth of the network; each server must
process the messages added by all servers before it. Although
Stadium aims for a shallow topology, the network is still too
deep to accommodate the quadratic processing costs (~10-25
compared to Vuvuzela’s depth 3). Instead, Stadium servers
collaborate to inject noise messages across the system in one
large step prior to mixing. With this strategy, servers are not
mixing in their own noise messages, leaving the opportunity
for malicious servers to discard noise messages before they
are mixed with user messages. To ensure that noise stays in
the system and the differential privacy guarantees are valid,
Stadium uses several cryptographic techniques for verifiable
processing of messages (§6) allowing honest servers to verify
the actions of others. To optimize the relatively expensive ver-
ification workload put on honest servers, Stadium introduces
a hybrid verifiable shuffling scheme to bootstrap verifiable
processing of large messages onto verifiable processing of
small authentication keys (§5.1).
In summary, Stadium reasons about the information leak-
age of parallel mixing through a differential privacy analysis.
Verifiable processing is used to ensure noise messages are
properly mixed with user messages, and thus, the differential
privacy guarantees are upheld.

Stadium: A Distributed Metadata-Private Messaging System SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China
5 DESIGN
This section presents the Stadium protocol in a chronological
view of a single communication round. Figure 3 breaks down
a round into 7 processing phases.
Collecting messages. In phases 1-2, messages are created
and submitted to the system. The message encapsulation
protocol is described in the next section (§5.1). Users each
submit one message, possibly a dummy message if not com-
municating; servers submit a randomized number of noise
messages. Stadium servers collect messages and use veri-
fiable processing to ensure only “proper” messages are ac-
cepted. The verifiable processing of message input (§6.1)
verifies submitted messages were created by the submitter
(i.e., preventing replay/malleability attacks) and verifies all
server-generated noise messages are included.
Mixing messages. Phases 3-5 make up Stadium’s parallel
mixnet. Stadium employs a 2-layer mixing topology consist-
ing of an input mixing layer (phase 3), all-to-all distribution
(phase 4), and an output mixing layer (phase 5). Since Stadium
assumes a fraction of its servers to be adversary-controlled,
the input and output mixing layers are not composed of sin-
gle servers, but rather of small groups of servers organized
into mixchains. Verifiable processing of the mixnet (mixing
§6.2 and distribution §6.3) allows an honest server to verify
messages that pass through its mixchain are uncorrupted
and properly mixed. Thus, proper execution of the mixnet
relies on the assumption that every mixchain contains at
least one honest server; we revisit the plausibility of this
assumption in §10.3.
A message’s path through the mixnet consists of an in-
put mixchain and an output mixchain. In the input chain,
messages are mixed with all other messages that entered
the system through the same chain. Messages exiting the
input chain are distributed among output chains, where they
are again mixed—this time with messages arriving across all
input chains.
Exchanging messages. The messages of an output chain
are exchanged (phase 6) at the dead-drops hosted by that
same output chain as described in §3. Note that this means,
two communicating users must route their messages to the
same output chain in order for them to be exchanged - a
restriction imposed by our privacy analysis. Messages then
travel back through the mixnet to their recipient users, each
mixchain reversing the permutation applied in the forward
direction (phase 7). The last two phases (6-7) are not verified;
messages output from the mixnet are already anonymized.
Adversaries can deny service to users by not exchanging or
corrupting messages, but the user’s intended communication
pattern remains hidden.
5.1 Message Encapsulation
Users set the path of their message through Stadium by desig-
nating an input chain, an output chain, and a dead-drop. Each
mixchain has a public key, jointly established by the servers
included in that chain (see Algorithm 2). Users encapsulate
their message using the public keys of their selected path,
using Algorithm 3. Encapsulated messages contain both the
underlying message content that Alice wishes to exchange,
as well as message routing metadata (e.g., the output chain
selection and dead-drop id). Routing metadata needs to be
properly protected for two main reasons. (1) Revealing user
message routing metadata can expose user communication
patterns. (2) Routing noise messages along their intended
paths is necessary for the differential privacy guarantees
to hold. Stadium uses verifiable processing to protect the
integrity of routing metadata and uses threshold decryption
to ensure routing metadata is revealed only when the mixing
protocol is honestly followed.
Hybrid verifiable shuffling. Providing efficient verifiable
processing for routing metadata remains a challenge. In par-
ticular, zero-knowledge shuffle proofs work on group ele-
ments (i.e., public-key encryption). Zero-knowledge shuffle
proofs allow mixing servers to prove the output messages are
a permutation of the input messages without revealing any
knowledge about the permutation itself (preventing message
corruption). Onion encrypting the metadata over multiple
chains requires working in a large group size, making compu-
tation inefficient. This holds true even for the 2-layer onion
encryption needed for Stadium’s shallow mixing topology.
Instead, Stadium handles messages in two pieces, authen-
tication and content. The authentication piece is small (32
bytes) and is verifiably processed. It provides authentication
information required to verify the integrity of the content
piece.
Hybrid verifiable shuffling bootstraps verifiable shuffling
of large messages onto zero-knowledge shuffle proofs of
small authentication keys (extended from [33]). To form the
content piece, we append a message authentication code
(Encrypt-then-MAC) to the message content and then onion
encrypt with the mixchain servers’ public keys. To form the
authentication piece, the authentication key used to produce
the MAC is encrypted with the mixchain’s public key. The
authentication pieces are permuted by each server verifi-
ably using zero-knowledge proofs. At the same time, each
server applies the same permutation to the content pieces,
stripping a layer of the hybrid encryption at each step. At
the end of the mixchain, the authentication key is revealed
and used to verify the correct permutations were applied to
the content by checking the MAC. The message encapsula-
tion is described in Algorithm 3 and the shuffling protocol is

SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China Tyagi et al.
Algorithm 1: Stadium Communication Protocol
1. Noise generation: Servers generate noise
messages. (Algorithm 4, §7)
2. Message input: Servers and users input messages
to system. (Algorithm 5, §6.1)
3. Mixing I: Messages are mixed within input chain.
(Algorithm 6, §6.2)
4. Distribution: Messages are distributed across
output chains (Algorithm 7, §6.3)
5. Mixing II: Messages are mixed within output chain
with messages from all input chains. (Algorithm 6,
§6.2)
6. Dead-drop exchange: Messages are exchanged at
dead-drops of output chain. (Algorithm 8)
7. Message return: Messages are reversed through
mixnet to users, denoted by dashed arrows.
(Algorithm 8)
Figure 3: Stadium’s communication protocol through 7 processing phases.
described in Algorithm 6. Although Stadium only uses the
technique for 2 mixing layers, it extends efficiently to more.
In Stadium, the purpose of hybrid verifiable shuffling is
to verifiably hold the routing metadata (both output chain
selection and dead-drop id) within the content piece. Even
though the integrity of the underlying communication mes-
sage is also protected through hybrid verifiable shuffling, this
is a non-goal as it is still susceptible to corruption during
message exchange and return.
6 VERIFIABLE PROCESSING
Verifiable processing serves two main purposes in Stadium.
The first is to prevent adversaries from directly learning
user communication metadata, e.g. through revealing output
chain selection or dead-drop id before properly mixing. The
second is to prevent adversaries from partially learning user
communication metadata through system-wide traffic anal-
ysis. This is accomplished by ensuring noise messages are
sent along their intended routes, upholding the guarantees
given by the differential privacy analysis.
In this section, we describe the three components that
make up the verifiable processing pipeline (phases 2-5 in
Figure 3): (1) Message input – tracking messages that en-
ter the system, (2) Mixing – tracking messages as they are
passed through a mixchain, and (3) Distribution – tracking
messages as they are passed between mixchains. For each
component, we list a set of properties that it aims to verify.
We argue that the component successfully verifies the in-
tended properties, and if a breach is detected, it is handled
safely without exposure of user communication metadata.
Complete security arguments can be found in our technical
report [44].
Intra-mixchain verification. The message processing and
verification workloads of a server are restricted to the scope
of its mixchain (with the exception of a few inexpensive
operations in the verifiable distribution phase). Thus, the
workload of a server scales with the fraction of messages
that flow through its mixchain. Designing mixchains to op-
erate as self-verifying entities is a crucial component to Sta-
dium’s horizontal scalability. For mixchains to self-verify
themselves, each mixchain must contain at least one honest
server. We evaluate the plausibility of such a configuration
in §10.3.

Stadium: A Distributed Metadata-Private Messaging System SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China
Algorithm 2: Key Generation
1. Communication partners share symmetric key : Alice and Bob hold
shared symmetric key. kAB←$ KGen(1n)
2. Servers’ public keys: Each server si generates a public, private key pair.
(pksi , sksi)← $ KGen(1n) of the form(дx , x) for ElGamal encryption.
3. Mixchains’ public keys: Each mixchain, mci =

si
1, . . . , si
ℓ
	
, has public,
private key pair derived from the member servers’ key pairs. The private key
is held in shares for threshold decryption.
(pkmci , skmci)←( ˛
s∈mci pks, ˝
s∈mci sks)
Algorithm 3: Message Encapsulation
(authi npu t, ci npu t) = Encapsulate(i, x, d, m)
1. Select message path: A message path is designated by input chain i, output
chain x, and dead-drop id d. For Alice talking to Bob,
m = Enc(kAB , plaintext).
2. Encrypt message for output chain : Encrypt the dead-drop id and message.
(authou t pu t, cou t pu t) = HybridShuffleEnc(mcx , d∥ m)
3. Encrypt message for input chain : Append output chain content and auth
with output chain selection and encrypt.(authi npu t, ci npu t) =
HybridShuffleEnc(mci, x∥ authou t pu t∥ cou t pu t)
(auth, c) = HybridShuffleEnc(mc, m)
1. Encrypt authentication piece: Generate random group element,
a← Gen(). Hash group element (with round nonce) to acquire
authentication key, kau t h = H(a∥ nonce r ound). Encrypt the group
element with mixchain’s public key, auth← Enc(pkmc, a).
2a. Add MAC to message: Generate symmetric key, km← KGen(1n). Hybrid
encrypt the symmetric key with the mixchain’s public key,
c← Enc(km, m)∥ Enc(pkmc, km). Add MAC to the encrypted message,
c← c∥ MAC(c).
2b. Onion encrypt content piece : For every server s∈ mc.r ever se():
Generate symmetric key ks← KGen(1n), and onion encrypt
c← Enc(pks, ks)∥ Enc(ks, c). (For communicating partners,
ks← KGen(1n, kAB))
Algorithm 5: Message Input
For submitting messages to mixchain i:
1. Encapsulate message:(authi npu t, ci npu t) = Encapsulate(i, x, d, m)
2. Create proof of knowledge : proofk now = NIZKk now(authi npu t, a),
where a is group element used to create authentication key from Algorithm 3.
3. Submit to input chain : Send(authi npu t, ci npu t) to first server in mci .
Send proofk now to every server s∈ mci .
(For servers submitting noise messages): Group all noise messages submitted
to mci ,N =(m(1)∥ . . . ∥ m(Ai∗ +Bi,∗
∗ )). Send hash of auths to every server
s∈ mci : H(Nauth).
For input chains:
1. Collect candidate batch: First server in chain collects batch and orders with
noise from servers 1 . . . m first, then users,
B =[N(1)∥ . . .∥N (m)∥ m(u1)∥ . . .∥ m(un)]
2a. Verify proofs of knowledge: Every server in mixchain verifies received
proofs. Removes messages with duplicate proofs. If user proof fails, remove. If
noise proof fails, halt. ∀ auth(i)∈ Bauth : Vfk now(auth(i), proof(i)
k now).
2b. Verify noise messages included: Every server in mixchain verifies with
received hashes. ∀N(i)
auth∈ Bauth : check H(N(i)
auth) against received hash.
Algorithm 4: Noise Generation
1. Generate single access noise : ∀ combinations of input chain i and output
chain x, sampleAi
x∼ Pois(λ1). GenerateAi
x messages sampling a random
dead-drop id, dr , for each one: Encapsulate(i, x, dr , 0).
2. Generate double access noise : ∀ combinations of input chain pairs i, j and
output chain x, sampleBi, j
x ∼ Pois(λ2). GenerateBi, j
x pairs of messages
sampling a random dead-drop id, dr , for each pair: Encapsulate(i, x, dr , 0),
Encapsulate(j, x, dr , 0).
Algorithm 6: Hybrid Verifiable Shuffle
π(m(1), . . . , m(n)) = HybridShuffle((auth, c)(1), . . . ,(auth, c)(n))
1. Permute messages: Each server, in turn, permutes the message batch, B,
and passes the permuted to batch to the next server in the mixchain.
1a. Permute authentication pieces with proof : Re-randomize every message
using ElGamal malleability, multiplying by encryption of 1,(дr ,дr·pkmc),
Br
auth← Bauth. Sample random permutationπ and permute Br
auth. Pass
B′ =π(Br
auth) to next server. Send proof of permutation to every server in
mixchain, proofs hu f = NIZKs hu f(Bauth, B′
auth,π).
1b. Permute content pieces: For each c =(c[0], c[1])∈ Bc, denoting parsing
the concatenation from Algorithm 3, peel off onion layer to create cr ∈ Br
c :
ks← Dec(sks, c[0]), cr← Dec(ks, c[1]). Pass B′ =π(Br
c) to next server.
2. Verify authentication shuffle proofs: Each server in mixchain verifies the
permutation of every other server s∈ mc, Vfs hu f(Bauth, B′(s)
auth, proof(s)
s hu f).
3. Threshold decrypt authentication keys : After all servers mix and all
shuffle proofs verify, servers verifiably generate shares and threshold decrypt
authentication keys,[a(i)] = Vf ThreshDec(B′
auth),[k(i)
au t h]←[ H(a(i))].
4. Verify content with authentication keys: Check MAC for every c(i)∈ B′
c
using k(i)
au t h.
4a. Trace message back if MAC fails : Each server s, in reverse order, reveal the
relation for failed message inπs, provides verifiable decryption of ks used for
onion encryption. If all proofs succeed, remove message. Else, identify erring
server and halt.
4b. Threshold decrypt content: Once all MACs verify or failed MACs are
removed, servers verifiably threshold decrypt content,
[k(i)
m] = Vf ThreshDec(B′
c[0]),[m(i)]← Dec(km, B′
c[1]).
Algorithm 7: Verifiable Distribution
For input chain:
1. Group messages by output chain selection : ∀ output chain i∈ 1 . . . m,
each server in input chain groups messages destined formci deterministically
to form b(i)
out. Last server in input chain sends b(i)
out to first server of mci .
2. Send hashes to output chains : Each server in input chain sends H(b(i)
auth) to
every server in mci ∀ output chain i∈ 1 . . . m.
For output chains:
1. Collect candidate batch: First server in chain collects b(i)
in from each input
mixchain and orders, B =[b(1)
in ∥ . . . ∥ b(m)
in ].
2a. Verify messages from input chains included : Every server in mixchain
verifies with received hashes. ∀ b(i)
auth∈ Bauth : check H(b(i)
auth) against
received hashes.
Algorithm 8: Message Exchange and Return
1. Dead-drop exchange: Given array of messages[m(i)] and corresponding
array of dead-drops[d(i)], exchange array indices of messages m(i), m(j) if
d(i) = d(j).
2. Return messages through mixnet : Reverse mixing, in reverse order,
mixchain servers apply inverse permutationπ−1 and randomize with ks from
Algorithm 6,[m(i)]←[ Enc(ks, m(π(i)))]. Reverse distribution by sending
messages back to input mixchains based on indices of message batch. Return
messages to users similarly.
Figure 4: Stadium’s communication round subprotocols.

SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China Tyagi et al.
6.1 Message Input
Two types of messages are included in a message batch to
enter a mixchain, noise and user messages. The properties
that are verified in the message input protocol are as follows:
• The submitting party knows the routing metadata of
the submitted message (output chain selection and
dead-drop id).
• All server-submitted noise messages, for which the
above property holds true, enter the mixchain.
Note that we allow user messages to be discarded, but honest
noise messages must be incorporated.
To achieve the first property, Stadium requires each sub-
mitting party to attach a non-interactive zero-knowledge
proof that it knows the plaintext of the message authen-
tication piece (i.e., the authentication key) [ 22, 40]. Given
our hybrid encapsulation technique, it is sufficient to ver-
ify knowledge of the authentication key as a proxy for the
routing metadata the key is used to authenticate. The au-
thentication key is also bound to the round number using a
hash (Algorithm 3), so as to prevent replays.
In addition to attaching a proof, servers take an extra step
in submitting noise messages to achieve the second property.
Servers hash the set of noise messages it wishes to submit to
a mixchain and send the hash to each server in the mixchain.
The protocol by which servers decide how many messages
to send to each mixchain is presented in the next section
(§7).
The first server in the mixchain collects all received user
and noise messages into a candidate message batch and sends
the batch to all servers in the mixchain. Chain servers use the
proofs of knowledge and noise hashes to verify the properties
are upheld and remove duplicates. The full protocol is given
in Algorithm 5.
6.2 Mixing
In the mixing phases (phases 3 and 5 in Figure 3), the accepted
message batch is passed through the mixchain and permuted
by each server in turn using the hybrid verifiable shuffling
protocol (Algorithm 6). The following properties are verified:
• The output message batch (decrypted content) is a
permutation of the input message batch (encrypted
content), i.e., message integrity is preserved.
• The permutation is random and unknown to any ad-
versary.
An honest server in the mixchain performs two important
tasks to achieve the above properties. First, it shuffles mes-
sages using a random permutation unknown to adversaries.
Second, it verifies that all other servers apply some valid per-
mutation (i.e., do not drop or tamper with messages). For a
length ℓ mixchain, each server generates one zero knowledge
proof and verifies ℓ− 1 proofs.
The authentication piece is permuted and verified with
a zero-knowledge shuffle proof [ 3]. The content piece is
permuted with the same permutation and verified at the end
of the mixchain using authentication keys.
Verifying hybrid content. If the zero-knowledge shuffle
proofs of the authentication pieces are all verified, mixchain
servers create and combine verifiable decryption shares to
threshold decrypt the authentication keys. Verifiable decryp-
tion consists of attaching a zero-knowledge proof [ 11] of
the validity of the decryption share. The authentication key
is used to verify the permutations applied to the content
pieces by checking the message authentication code (MAC).
Only then, do mixchain servers perform a second round
of verifiable threshold decryption to extract the underlying
content.
There are two possible reasons for content authentication
failure: a malicious user sent an invalid message, or a mali-
cious server modified the content. It should not be possible
for a malicious user to be able to perform a DoS, so the round
cannot simply be halted upon detecting a failure. Instead,
servers reveal decryption proofs tracing back the path of the
faulty message content piece. If all proofs succeed, the faulty
message originated from a malicious user; it is dropped and
the round is completed through threshold decryption. Oth-
erwise, a malicious server will be identified and the round is
halted before communication metadata is revealed.
6.3 Distribution
In the distribution phase (phase 4 in Figure 3), output chains
collect messages from the input chains according to the re-
vealed output chain selection. The collected messages are
combined to form a new message batch for the second mixing
phase. The following property is verified:
• Every message enters its selected output mixchain.
The verifiable distribution protocol is an extended version
of noise distribution in the message input protocol, where
hash checks were used to verify all noise messages were
incorporated into the message batch. It provides a way for
an honest server in an input chain to communicate the set of
messages intended for an output chain and an honest server
within the output chain to verify that the set of messages is
included in the message batch.
Each server in the input chain hashes the set of messages
intended for an output chain and sends the hash to every
member server of that output chain. If every server in the
input chain acts honestly, the calculated hashes will be equiv-
alent. The first server of the output chain collects messages
received across all the input chains into a candidate message

Stadium: A Distributed Metadata-Private Messaging System SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China
Observable Variable Hidden by noise
variables
Hiding noise distribution
(m servers aggregate)
IOi
x : inter-chain messages Ai
x and ∀j :Bi, j
x Pois(mλ1 + m2λ2)
Ax : single-access count ∀i :Ai
x Pois(m2λ1)
Bx : double-access count ∀i, j :Bi, j
x Pois(m3λ2)
Table 1: Observable variables and noise.
batch. Servers on the output chain verify the candidate mes-
sage batch using the received hashes. Again, it is sufficient
for the input chains to hash only the authentication pieces
as a proxy for the dead-drop id metadata contained within
the content piece. The full protocol is given in Algorithm 7.
Inter-mixchain verification. As the total number of mix-
chains grows, the number of hashes a server sends increases,
increasing the network costs to set up a connection with each
server. This represents a small, but non-constant, processing
cost for mixchains. Note however, the total hashing cost re-
mains the same, since the underlying input (message batch)
is the same size; it is simply broken into smaller divisions
for hashing.
7 DIFFERENTIALLY PRIV ATE ROUTING
In this section we identify the observable variables that Sta-
dium exposes and describe how servers generate cover traffic
to obscure these variables. Table 1 summarizes the observ-
able variables and noise covering them.
7.1 Observable Variables
Adversaries may monitor the communication between all
of Stadium’s servers and users. Since Stadium uses verifi-
able processing (§6) to ensure that all messages that enter
a mixchain also exit that chain, no intra-chain links leak
information about user communication. The remaining are
the following inter-chain links: (1) from the user to the input
chain, (2) from the input chain to output chain, and (3) from
the output chain to the dead-drop. (When messages travel
on the return path, they are already anonymized.)
To mitigate the information leaked by link (1), between the
user to the input chain, users send a message at every round
regardless of whether the user is active in a conversation.
Therefore, observing users sending messages does not leak
any information about their conversations. Stadium does not
attempt to obscure the fact that a user uses the system, it
only hides its users’ communication patterns. We now focus
on the remaining two types of links and identify three types
of observable variables Stadium exposes to an adversary
monitoring these links (see Table 1).
7.1.1 Inter-Chain Message Distribution. The traffic vol-
ume emitted from the input chain does not directly reveal
the user’s communication patterns, but attackers observing
the distribution of messages to output chains may still ex-
ploit this information to infer a particular message’s output
chain choice, as shown in Figure 2. By inferring a message’s
output chain the adversary reduces the anonymity set (Alice
can only communicate with others on her output chain). We
define the following set of observable variables to reason
about this leak of information:
Input-output chain traffic volumes, IOi
x . The amount of
traffic emitted from input chain i to output chain x. There
are m2 such variables.
7.1.2 Dead-Drop Access Counts. Adversaries that have
compromised a server on an output chain can observe the
dead-drops of all messages sent to that chain. In particular,
an adversary can identify which messages are exchanged at a
dead-drop, indicating their users are employed in a conversa-
tion, and which messages reach a dead-drop alone, indicating
their users are idle. We define the following types of observ-
able variables to reason about this leak of information:
Single access counts, Ax . The number of dead-drops that
receive exactly one message where that message was output
from chain x. There are m single access variables.
Double access counts, Bx . The number of dead-drops that
receive two messages output from chain x. There are m
double access variables.
7.2 Noise Generation
In order to obscure the observable variables that Stadium
exposes to attackers, servers inject noise messages to the
system at the beginning of the round. So as not to flood the
system with noise messages, noise generation responsibili-
ties are split between (honest) servers, which add noise in
one collaborative step at the beginning of each round. Veri-
fiable processing (§6) ensures that no malicious server can
remove noise later.
We define the following two categories of random vari-
ables. The single-access noise variableAi
x is the number of
messages that travel through input chain i and output chain
x and reach a random dead-drop (such that the chance that
it is used by any other message is negligible). The double-
access variableBi, j
x is the number of pairs of noise messages
that reach the same dead-drop from output chain x, where
one message in the pair travels through input chain i, and
the other travels through input chain j.
Stadium uses the Poisson distribution for noise generation,
Ai
x∼ Pois(λ1) andBi, j
x ∼ Pois(λ2). The Poisson distribution
is well suited to Stadium for two main reasons. First, the
additive property1 of Poisson distributions makes it easy
to reason about the collaborative noise distribution from
1If x∼ Pois(λ1) andy∼ Pois(λ2), then x +y∼ Pois(λ1 +λ2).

SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China Tyagi et al.
summing independent samples generated by Stadium servers.
Second, since Poisson distributions are discrete and non-
negative, we do not need to handle rounding, especially for
distributions with mean near zero, which occurs often when
noise generation is distributed across many servers. In §8
the parameters λ1,λ2 are selected such that the aggregate
noise (generated by all servers) provides Stadium’s privacy
guarantees.
The servers draw each of these variables independently
and generate noise messages accordingly. For example, gen-
erating a noise message forAi
x consists of creating a dummy
plaintext and routing it to a random dead-drop through input
chain i and output chain x. The noise message will route
back to the server and will be dropped. Table 1 summarizes
the noise variables hiding each observable variable.
8 PRIV ACY ANALYSIS
In this section we give a sketch of the analysis for Stadium’s
privacy guarantees. A complete analysis is given in our ex-
tended technical report [44]. Recall our differential privacy
goal (defined in Section 2) to keep any adjacent communica-
tion instances almost equally likely, where adjacency means
that one user changes its traffic pattern by selecting a differ-
ent output chain and/or dead-drop. This definition allows
a user Alice, who is talking to Bob, to claim that she is not
talking with anyone (sending a message to a dead-drop not
shared with another user). Similarly, it allows Alice, who is
idle, to claim she is talking to someone. Formally, Stadium is
described as a mechanism M(D), where each element in the
input database D describes the path of one user message by
the tuple(i, o, d): i is the user’s selection of input chain, o is
her output chain and d is the destination dead drop. (Note
that i is directly observable to the adversary monitoring
users, while Stadium obscures o and d.) The output of the
Stadium mechanism M is a vector of observable variables
IOi
x , Ax , Bx defined in § 7.
Two inputs to Stadium, D and D′, are adjacent if one user
changes their path selection(i, o, d)∈ D to(i, o′, d′)∈ D′. We
show that the Stadium is(ϵ,δ)-differentially private, mean-
ing for all adjacent instances D, D′ and set of observable
variables S:
Pr[M(D)∈ S]≤ eϵ· Pr[M(D′)∈ S] +δ
Stadium servers inject Poisson distributed noise messages
to cover observable variables (§ 7 and Table 1). Our first
theorem gives the differential privacy guarantees of the Pois-
son mechanism. Denote Pois(λ; k) as the probability mass
function of Pois(λ) at k, λk e−λ
k! .
Theorem 8.1. A mechanism which adds Pois(λ) noise to
output X is(ϵ,δ)-differentially private with respect to changes
of 1 in X withϵ = ln(1 + c
√
λ
λ ) andδ = e−λ(eλ)λ+c
√
λ
(λ+c
√
λ)λ+c
√
λ . (Where
c > 0 allows trading higher ϵ for lowerδ .)
We first analyze the information leaked through the input-
output chain distribution (IO i
x ), then use that to analyze the
information leaked through the output chain to dead-drop
access counts (Ax , Bx ). In the analysis, we consider an m-
mixchain Stadium configuration.
8.1 Input Chain to Output Chain
The adversary can observe the traffic volumes from Alice’s
input chain i to all output chains, IO i
∗, and gain statistical
information about which output chain Alice is more likely to
have used, see Figure 2. The purpose of the input chains is to
hide each user’s selection of output chain. Intuitively, since
the traffic links IO i
∗ are noised, it should be almost equally
likely for Alice to have travelled to output chain o or output
chain o′.
We can capture this intuition formally by considering
how the noise variables,Ai
o,Bi,∗
o ,Ai
o′,Bi,∗
o′ , that cover IO i
o
and IO i
o′ change when Alice goes to chain o versus when
Alice goes to chain o′. For fixed observations of IO i
o, IO i
o′,
Alice switching chains corresponds to an increase of 1 and
a decrease of 1 in the corresponding noise variables. Recall
from the Poisson additive property, the noise covering each
IO i
x is distributed according to Pois(mλ1 + m2λ2). We can
then apply Thm 8.1 to IO i
o, IO i
o′ and compose to get bounds
¯ϵ, ¯δ for how much information the adversary learns about
Alice’s output chain:
Pr[Alice → o]≤ e ¯ϵ· Pr[Alice → o′] + ¯δ
8.2 Output Chain to Dead-drop
Output chains mix user messages with noise to obscure dead-
drop access patterns. If an adversary knows Alice’s output
chain o, the dead-drop access patterns can reveal some infor-
mation on the existence (or nonexistence) of Alice’s commu-
nication.
Consider the two adjacent instances Alice talking to Bob
and Alice not talking to anyone. Further, consider the simpli-
fication where it is known Bob goes to output chain o. Then,
if Alice and Bob are talking, their messages would contribute
to Bo. If instead, Alice was not talking to anyone, Bob’s mes-
sage would now contribute to Ao and Alice’s message would
contribute to Ao′ for some random choice of o′. Observing
the same values in these two cases corresponds to an in-
crease of 1 in the noise covering Bo and a decrease of 1 in
the noise covering Ao and Ao′. Naively, these three variables
can be composed using Thm 8.1, but a tighter bound can
be found by taking advantage of the randomness of Alice’s
choice o′. Variables Ao and Bo will change by one, but there
is not some single variable Ao′ that the adversary knows

Stadium: A Distributed Metadata-Private Messaging System SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China
changes. Instead, it is only known that 1 variable out of the
m inﬁA =(A1, . . . ,Am) changes, and that variable is chosen
at random. Furthermore, by removing the simplification that
Bob’s output chain o is known, we get randomness over Ao
and Bo as well.
We formalize this intuition in a generalization of the Pois-
son mechanism in Thm 8.1, which we call the multidimen-
sional Poisson mechanism. This theorem captures a √m-
factor of privacy savings when the change occurs in a ran-
dom choice of m variables.
Theorem 8.2. A mechanism which adds Pois(λ) noise to
each variable in outputﬁX , where|ﬁX| = m, is(ϵ,δ)-differentially
private with respect to a uniform random change of 1 inﬁX with
ϵ = ln(1 + c
√
mλ
mλ ) andδ = e−mλ(emλ)r
r r . (Where r = mλ +c
√
mλ
and c > 0 is a parameter that allows trading higher ϵ for lower
δ .)
Unfortunately, this theorem cannot be directly applied
since in our case, the variables that change are not uniformly
random; the adversary has some small advantage, as shown
in §8.1. We can consider a variation of the multidimensional
Poisson mechanism where one random variable Xi ∈ ﬁX
changes by 1, and the probability that Xi changes is pi. In
this case, we show that the worst-caseϵ,δ bounds are given
when maxi(pi) is maximized. This result intuitively makes
sense, as a high maxi(pi) means that the adversary has high
probability of knowing where the change will occur. In other
words, the amount of information leaked is related to the
entropy of the probability change vectorﬁp; lower entropy
means more information leaked.
Lemma 8.3. Given a probability vectorﬁp, such that˝m
i=1 pi =
1 and ∀pi , pi≥ pmin = 1−pmax
m−1 for some probability pmax > 1
m .
Letﬁv = v1, . . . ,vm be values where vj = max{vi}. Then it
holds that, ˝m
i=1 pi·vi≤ pmax·vj + ˝
i,j pmin·vi .
Recall from§8.1, we showed the following constraint on
the probability of the adversary learning Alice’s output chain.
For every pair of output chains o, o′ where po is the prob-
ability Alice goes to output chain o, po ≤ e ¯ϵ· po′ + ¯δ. Ad-
ditionally,˝
i pi = 1. With these constraints, we show that
pmax = e ¯ϵ 1− ¯δ
e ¯ϵ +m−1 + ¯δ and ∀ pi , pmax, pi = pmin = 1− ¯δ
e ¯ϵ +m−1.
Finally, we can use these “worst-case” uneven distribution
probabilities to reduce the problem to a multidimensional
Poisson mechanism of m− 1 pmin probabilities and 1 Poisson
mechanism for thepmax probability. RecallAo, Bo are covered
by the sum of noise variables A∗
o andB∗,∗
o that distribute
according to Pois(m2λ1) and Pois(m3λ2) respectively. Apply-
ing Thm 8.1 and Thm 8.2 toﬁA,ﬁB using Lemma 8.3 leads to
theϵ,δ differential privacy guarantees for a single round of
Stadium communication. Full details of the above analysis
can be found in our extended technical report [44].
8.2.1 Conversation over multiple rounds. Stadium allows
users to interactively communicate over multiple communi-
cation rounds. Adversaries may constantly monitor the sys-
tem to learn information about users across multiple rounds,
possibly perturbing the system each round (e.g., knocking
Alice offline) based on observations in earlier ones. This sce-
nario is known as adaptive composition in the differential
privacy literature [20]. The composition of k rounds is also
differentially private:
Theorem 8.4. Consider an algorithm M providingϵ,δ dif-
ferential privacy, then M providesϵ′,δ′ differential privacy
after k rounds with parameters:ϵ′ =ϵ
p
2kln(1/d) +kϵ(eϵ−1)
andδ′ = kδ + d, for any d > 0 trading higherϵ for lowerδ .
Proof. Direct from Theorem 3.20 in [20]. □
8.3 Noise Volumes in Practice
We apply the analysis above to find the best noise distribution
(i.e., the parametersλ1,λ2) for deployments of m = 25 - 1000
servers. Given a strict limit forδ, we search the parameters
to minimize eϵ .
Figure 5 plots the number of noise messages required per
round for users to communicate through 104 rounds with
targetδ = 10−4 tolerating f = 25% compromised servers.
The time it takes to process noise messages represents a
lower bound on message latency for a particular Stadium
configuration. We therefore find that Stadium’s latency is
particularly sensitive to its privacy parameters for configu-
rations with relatively few servers (that require significantly
more noise messages). For larger server configurations, the
noise workload per mixchain falls since it is split across the
greater number of mixchains. Stadium operates most effi-
ciently when the configuration is set such that the number
of noise messages per mixchain is dwarfed by the number
of user messages.
9 IMPLEMENTATION
We implement a prototype of Stadium to evaluate its perfor-
mance and feasibility of deployment. Our system’s control
and networking logic is implemented in Go, while the un-
derlying verifiable processing protocols (described in §6)
are implemented in C++. In particular, our C++ code imple-
ments Bayer and Groth’s verifiable shuffling protocol [3] ex-
tended for non-interactive proofs via the Fiat-Shamir Heuris-
tic and instantiated over Bernstein’s Curve25519 elliptic
curve group [ 5]. The shuffle depends on libNTL [ 41] for
arithmetic. We use standard Go RPCs for networking.
Our implementation uses OpenMP and the Go runtime to
parallelize our verifiable computation process. Most opera-
tions process each message in a batch independently (§6) and
are therefore trivially parallelizable. Moreover, we pipeline

SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China Tyagi et al.
20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180
noise (thousands of messages per server)
0
5
10
15
20
e²
25 servers
50 servers
100 servers
200 servers
400 servers
800 servers
Figure 5: Number of noise messages required per
server per communication round to achieve Stadium
privacy guarantees with δ = 10−4 for 104 communica-
tion rounds.
steps in the verifiable computation to increase performance
gains from parallelization.
We deploy and evaluate our prototype on Amazon EC2
servers. We randomly assign servers to chains, excluding
straggler servers which are under heavy load. We place each
server at a different index on ℓ different mixchains (where ℓ
is the chain length) so that we maximize server utilization.
This allows us to build anm-mixchain Stadium configuration
with m servers.
Our prototype does not support client message input; in-
stead, we simulate this by having each server generate some
share of the client messages. The implementation also does
not include verifiable decryption and currently lacks fault
tolerance.
10 EV ALUATION
We wish to answer four key questions about Stadium:
• Horizontal scaling: How does Stadium’s latency change
when more users and servers are added?
• Security guarantees: How does changing Stadium’s
ϵ and chain length parameters affect its performance?
• Operational cost: What resources does a deployment
of Stadium require?
• State of the art : How does Stadium compare with
Vuvuzela, and what is our design’s scaling overhead?
In evaluating Stadium, Table 2 shows that our prototype
efficiently supports tens of millions of users given secure
system parameters at low cost to individual server operators.
Servers Users Latency
(seconds)
Bandwidth
per server
Chain
length e ϵ ,δ
100 6.3 million 43.6± 0.187 18 Mb/s 3 10, 0.0001
100 46 million 238± 0.466 88 Mb/s 3 10, 0.0001
100 46 million 504± 2.55 142 Mb/s 6 10, 0.0001
100 46 million 876± 2.32 173 Mb/s 9 10, 0.0001
Table 2: A summary of our prototype’s performance
characteristics.
10.1 Experiments
We benchmark Stadium on 100 Amazon c4.8xlarge EC2
virtual machines running Linux 4.4, each of which have 36
virtual CPU cores, 60 GB of memory, and 10 Gbps band-
width. We measure the end-to-end message latency with a
coordinator server, which configures the server chains and
coordinates execution of a round. Individual servers also in-
strument Stadium’s network utilization using the collectl
tool, and these statistics are aggregated at the coordinator.
Messages are short (136 bytes long) to simulate that of a
minimal chat application.
For each setting of our independent variables, we run at
least three trials. The maximum difference in latency be-
tween all machines across any pair of trials is within 4% of
the average; the error bars are imperceptible on our plots.
We perform two experiments to quantify the performance
characteristics of Stadium. Our first experiment measures
the effect of chain length on system latency. We vary chain
lengths from 3 to 9 for three different settings of the system’s
load per server for 100 servers. We discuss these effects in
section 10.3.
Our second experiment synthesizes workloads of up to
50 million messages and then distributes these uniformly
between configurations of 25, 50, 75, and 100 servers, con-
figured with chain lengths of 3, 6, and 9. Setting eϵ = 10, we
subtract out noise messages corresponding to the mean of our
distribution to obtain goodput values for these parameters
(Figure 6). We investigate other values ofϵ in section 10.3.
Limitations. Due to time and cost constraints, we did not
evaluate our system against larger configurations of servers
(e.g., 500 servers). Because Stadium’s latency appears to scale
linearly up to 100 servers, we extrapolate its latency to larger
deployments by proportionally reducing the per-server mes-
sage load and interpolating as if these load-balancing trends
continued past 100 servers. For instance, to obtain a projected
latency of a 200-server deployment for a given load, we halve
the per-server goodput, adjust noise loads, and then linearly
interpolate over the 100-server configuration to obtain the
desired latency. We contend in the following section that
these assumptions are reasonable.
We were unable to fully complete experiments for smaller
deployments of servers as individual servers lack sufficient

Stadium: A Distributed Metadata-Private Messaging System SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China
0 10 20 30 40 50
0
200
400
600
800
1000
round latency (s)
chain length=3
m = 25
m = 50
m = 75
m = 100
0 10 20 30 40 50
millions of users
chain length=6
0 10 20 30 40 50
chain length=9
Figure 6: Stadium message latency as a function of the
number of connected users given m∈{ 25, 50, 75, 100}
servers. For comparison, we plot Vuvuzela’s best pro-
jected performance as a dashed line for chain length
ℓ = 3. At a chain length of 3 and a latency of 200s, our
deployment supports 3.6× the users Vuvuzela does at
1/15th the per-server operating cost.
memory for our implementation to support very large mes-
sage batch sizes. We note that small numbers of servers are
not practical for deploying Stadium.
10.2 Horizontal scaling
The end-to-end latency of Stadium grows in proportion to
the number of total messages, and it shrinks in proportion
to the number of total servers.
First, we can observe in Figure 6 that for a fixed number
of total servers, the round latency increases near-linearly
with respect to the total number of user messages, with a
small quadratic term. For example, with a chain length of
6 and 50 servers, Stadium supports 16 million users at a
latency of 380s. From here, increasing the number of users
by 2.25× increases latency by 2.36×. With additional user
messages, each mixchain receives a proportionally larger
message batch to process, e.g., decrypting and verifiably
shuffling these messages. Furthermore, we observe a small
quadratic term which results from the message distribution
phase, where each pair of mixchains must communicate. Also
recall that the number of noise messages remains constant
with respect to the number of users and represents an initial
start-up latency that is better amortized over more users.
Figure 7 shows how round latency decreases with the
number of Stadium servers. The initial points in this figure,
between 50 and 100 servers, are based on our measurements
(in Figure 6). To illustrate how Stadium would scale with
more servers we extrapolate from our measurements based
on observed trends. For instance, our measurements show
that Stadium can achieve a latency of 400s with 100 servers
with a chain length of 6; doubling the deployment size to 200
50 100 200 300 400 500
number of servers
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
round latency (s)
Vuvuzela, ` = 3
30 million users, e² = 3
` = 3
` = 6
` = 9
Figure 7: Stadium message latency as a function of the
number of servers. We plot Stadium’s projected per-
formance past 100 servers with dashed lines (§10.1).
With 500 servers, Stadium can support 30 million
users with just under two minutes of latency and a
chain length of 9; Vuvuzela’s rounds require more
than nine minutes.
servers halves round latency to under 200s. This follows since
for some fixed number of messages, a proportional increase
in the number of servers allows Stadium to divide the real
and noise messages equally among all servers (ignoring the
small quadratic cost from message distribution). Additionally,
increasing the number of total servers decreases the noise
required per server (§8).
Even at relatively small scales, Stadium outperforms Vu-
vuzela in terms of latency and throughput. For example, for
a chain length of 3, Vuvuzela can only support 10 million
users in 200s; Stadium (with 100 servers) supports 3× as
many users in the same amount of time. As we increase the
total number of servers in the system, we expect that these
relationships will continue to hold because our per-server
noise message and user message loads will both decrease.
10.3 Security guarantees
Chain length. The length of Stadium’s mixchains repre-
sents a security-performance trade-off. Stadium’s verifiable
processing (§6) strategy, which ensures the differential pri-
vacy guarantees are upheld, hinges on the property that
every mixchain contains at least one honest verifying server.
A longer chain length increases the likelihood that this prop-
erty holds, but pays in performance since more servers need
to handle each message.
If auxiliary information is known about the participating
servers and trust assumptions of users, it may be possible
to arrange servers via some policy. However, in absence of
such a policy, we can randomly assign servers to mixchains

SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China Tyagi et al.
3 6 9 12 14
chain length
10-5
10-4
10-3
10-2
10-1
probability of compromised chain
(100; 1=4)
(500; 1=4)
(1000; 1=4)
(100; 1=10)
(100; 1=5)
(100; 1=2)
Figure 8: Probability of compromised mixchain exist-
ing with random server assignment given the fraction
of compromised servers f , chain length ℓ, and number
of mixchains m. (Labels in the legend denote a setting
of the parameters(m, f).)
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
chain length
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
round latency (s)
100K msgs/server
300K msgs/server
500K msgs/server
Figure 9: Chain length and message latency ( m=100
servers).
and analyze the probability of one honest server per chain
given some assumed upper bound fraction of compromised
servers f . The probability for a specific chain to be assigned
all compromised servers (with replacement) is f ℓ where ℓ
is the chain length. We can bound the probability of some
chain being composed of all compromised servers with the
union bound, m· f ℓ where m is the number of chains. This
probability falls exponentially with chain length, and grows
only linearly in the number of chains, as shown in Figure 8.
To evaluate the effects of chain length on performance,
we perform an additional benchmark varying chain length
from 3 to 9 for m = 100 servers. We test three different
per-server loads: 100, 300, and 500 thousand messages per
server. The choice of chain length has a significant effect on
Stadium’s latency. Indeed, Figure 9 illustrates a quadratic
100 200 300 400 500
number of servers
0.4
0.8
1.2
1.6
2.0
²
 Vuvuzela, ` = 3
4.6M users, 120s latency
100 200 300 400 500
number of servers
Vuvuzela, ` = 3
11.4M users, 300s latency
` = 3
` = 6
` = 9
Figure 10: Stadium’s privacy bound ϵ as a function of
the number of servers. Adding more servers to Sta-
dium allows it to surpass Vuvuzela in performance
for both low- and medium-latency targets. (We choose
goodput and latency settings which match Vuvuzela’s
for a clear comparison.)
relationship between the number of servers in a chain and
round latency. This is expected since verifiable processing
requires each server to verify a proof for every other server in
the mixchain. Additionally since we pipeline servers across
chains, this corresponds to a quadratic processing cost. As
a result, our design is sensitive to the trust assumptions
underpinning choices of chain length.
Differential privacy guarantees. We examine Stadium’s
privacy guarantees by evaluating changes in ϵ (bound on
information revealed about communication metadata) given
a fixedδ = 10−4 (failure probability with no privacy guaran-
tees).
Since Stadium’s latency scales down in proportion to the
number of servers, we analyze ourϵ guarantees by fixing a
target system goodput and latency while varying the number
of servers. Observe in Figure 10 that whether we target a
medium or high volume of users, our ϵ-bounds converge
quickly towards a high level of privacy. For instance, with a
chain length of 6, Stadium supports 4.6 million users at 120
seconds of latency with eϵ = 18.4 with 50 users, eϵ = 5.3
with 75 users, and eϵ = 3.5 with 100 users. Extrapolating
to 500 servers, we can achieve a small value of eϵ = 1.5,
providing a high amount of plausible deniability for Alice.
10.4 Deployment cost
Communication is the dominant factor in the cost of main-
taining a server. Deploying Stadium on 100 servers with
chain length of 6 requires a server to send data at about
142 Mbps (see Table 4) We achieve low per-machine band-
width costs without significant per-user bandwidth costs:

Stadium: A Distributed Metadata-Private Messaging System SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China
Chain length Bandwidth total (Mb/s) Bandwidth per user (b/s)
3 (Stadium) 8767 189
6 (Stadium) 14246 308
9 (Stadium) 17329 374
3 (Vz.) 3984 87
6 (Vz.) 7968 173
Table 3: Total and per-user bandwidth costs of Stadium
(deployed on m = 100 servers for 46M users) and Vu-
vuzela per-round. We do not pay a significant per-user
bandwidth overhead (less than 5×) over Vuvuzela.
Chain
length
Round
latency (s)
Communication
(GB)
Bandwidth
(Mb/s)
Bandwidth
vs. Vuvuzela
3 238 2.607 88 6.60%
6 504 8.978 142 10.72%
9 876 18.976 173 13.05%
Table 4: Communication and bandwidth costs of one
server for one round of communication ( m = 100, 46M
users). Notice that our bandwidth costs are 7− 15×
lower than those of Vuvuzela (at a chain length of 3).
the marginal cost of adding another user is small and in-
sensitive to the choice of chain length. Table 3 shows that
our bandwidth costs are likewise low; it costs 142 Mbps to
operate Stadium with a chain length of 6. Note that we can
arbitrarily drive down this cost by throttling rounds at the
cost of latency.
Every round, a client must send the message itself wrapped
in 2ℓ layers of onion encryption (32 bytes of overhead each)
in addition to the output chain metadata (32 bytes) and a
proof that the message was well-formed (32 bytes). If message
size is S bytes and round latency is T seconds, then a client’s
bandwidth cost C is
C = S + 64l + 64
T
Setting a chain length of ℓ = 6, S = 136 bytes and T = 503
seconds, clients need to send at the rate of 1.16bps. This
cost scales linearly with an increasing message size or chain
length.
To illustrate the feasibility of deploying Stadium, consider
that of the top 300 relays in the Tor network, each offers
more than 140 Mbps of bandwidth (see [ 43]). Using these
measurements, we can estimate how much it costs to deploy a
server: if bandwidth costs $0.63/month per unit of Mbps [36],
then it should cost a Stadium operator about $110 a month
to run a server for one month, given a chain length of 9.
10.5 Comparison with Vuvuzela
Like Vuvuzela, Stadium allows an operator to set the security
parameters ϵ and chain length; with these two variables
set, one can fix either a latency or a throughput parameter
to obtain the other. Clients then submit messages into the
system and receive them at fixed intervals.
Unlike Vuvuzela, an operator can add servers to Stadium,
which represents a fifth variable and a fourth degree of free-
dom. The trust assumptions of Stadium are then slightly
different from those of Vuvuzela. Vuvuzela requires users to
greatly trust a few points of failure, while Stadium distributes
its computation across a high number of less trustworthy
servers.
Due to these differences, we conservatively pick the per-
formance characteristics of Vuvuzela set atℓ = 3 for the sake
of comparison. Our evaluation shows that at 100 servers
and chain lengths of 3, 6, and 9, Stadium is competitive with
Vuvuzela in terms of latency and privacy at large scales. In
addition, whether we desire low latency, high throughput,
strong security, or all of these characteristics, we can in-
crementally add servers to reach that point. Furthermore,
Vuvuzela’s requirement of 1.3 Gbps of bandwidth limits de-
ployment to large organizations (no Tor relay provides more
than 1 Gbps of bandwidth [43]) while a modest requirement
of 142 Mbps allows individuals to scale out Stadium.
11 RELATED WORK
Anonymous communication systems. The study of on-
line anonymous communication dates back to Chaum’s work
on mixnets [ 8] and DC-nets [ 9]. Systems based on these
primitives [10, 17, 24, 25, 27, 31] share similar design princi-
ples of layering encryption, then batching, permuting, and
forwarding messages. Similar to the layering encryption of
mixnets, onion routing [ 42] allows for specific subsets of
mixservers to be selected, amenable to peer-to-peer and dis-
tributed systems. Systems based on these principles achieve
high throughput due to the relatively inexpensive cost of
their operations. Tor [18], the most popular anonymity sys-
tem in use, is an overlay network of onion routers. Tor sup-
ports its millions of users with a horizontally scaling design,
where capacity can be bolstered through the addition of
volunteer providers – a shared design goal with Stadium.
Recent systems have focused on protecting against strong,
active adversaries with the ability to monitor and inject traffic
at a global scale. The scalability of many of these systems are
limited by vertically scaling designs, where providers must
run more powerful infrastructure to support more users. Ri-
poste [14] for point-to-point communication and Talek [12]
for publish-subscribe are based on the cryptographic tech-
nique of private information retrieval (PIR). Dissent [15, 47]
is an anonymous messaging system based on DC-nets. These
systems are restricted from horizontal scalability by com-
putationally expensive PIR techniques and communication
intensive broadcast requirements.

SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China Tyagi et al.
Vuvuzela [45], the current largest-scale system that pro-
tects against strong adversaries, is a mixnet-based private
messaging system that achieves high throughput, in part,
by relaxing the provable privacy guarantees from crypto-
graphic indistinguishability to differential privacy. Stadium
is also mixnet-based and uses a similar differential privacy
definition, but is designed to scale horizontally with added
providers, support a higher throughput, and cut operating
costs of providers.
More recently, there have been a few systems that aim
for the same goals of provable privacy against strong ad-
versaries and horizontal-scalability as Stadium. Pung [ 1]
uses PIR techniques for private messaging. Although Pung
is horizontally scalable, it does not aim to achieve the same
levels of throughput as Stadium. Instead, Pung focuses on
the threat model of all untrusted providers. In contrast, Sta-
dium’s privacy is dependent on some providers faithfully
executing the protocol and verifying others. Atom [ 32] is
an anonymous publishing system that uses verifiable pro-
cessing techniques very similar to Stadium’s. However, with
differing applications and privacy goals, Stadium and Atom
reach different mixnet design points. In particular, Atom uses
a random permutation network to achieve strong anonymity
sets, while Stadium relaxes anonymity with differential pri-
vacy to reason about information leakage of a shallow two-
layer network, greatly reducing latency at the cost of perfect
mixing. Lastly, Loopix [37] is an asynchronous messaging
system based on onion routing that achieves some provable
properties through random Poisson delays.
Mixnets. Stadium builds on two classic threads of mixnet re-
search, parallel mixing and verifiable mixing. Parallel mixnets
[17, 19, 26, 38] were suggested as a way to horizontally scale
traditional sequential mixnets. Stadium adopts ideas from
this literature and provides a differential privacy analysis to
bound the information leakage of message routing within
the mixnet from traffic analysis [6].
Verifiable shuffles make up the majority of Stadium’s mes-
sage processing. Verifiable shuffles were originally proposed
to allow globally verifiable e-voting [3, 13, 23, 35], another
privacy related scenario; but they have typically been con-
sidered prohibitively expensive for low-latency applications
such as messaging. However, with recent cryptographic ad-
vances [3] in shuffle efficiency and, more importantly, paral-
lelization, Stadium shows that they are nearing practicality.
Finally, Stadium combines efficiently engineered verifiable
shuffles, hybrid verifiable shuffling, and an intra-mixchain
verification strategy to allow verification workloads of the
complete mixnet to scale.
We explored the use of randomized partial checking (RPC)
[29] as a more robust verification alternative to zero knowl-
edge proofs. RPC allows a small probability that an adversary
will directly learn the path of a message through an hon-
est server. Even though this probability is small, it grows
too much for our privacy budget over many servers and
many rounds. Other techniques using dummy/trap messages,
which allow a small probability for an adversary to replace a
message, may be more amenable to our privacy analysis [32].
12 CONCLUSION
Stadium is a point-to-point messaging system that provides
metadata and data privacy while scaling its work efficiently
across hundreds of low-cost providers operated by different
organizations. In contrast to previous strong anonymity sys-
tems, Stadium can be deployed incrementally using small
providers and does not require a small centralized anytrust
set. We show that Stadium can scale to support 4 × more
users than previous systems using servers that cost an order
of magnitude less to operate.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Thanks to Justin Martinez and Pratheek Nagaraj for helping
us implement and evaluate Stadium, and to David Lazar
and Jelle van den Hooff for their feedback on the design of
Stadium and on this paper. We would also like to thank our
reviewers and our shepherd Michael Walfish. This work was
supported by NSF awards CNS-1413920 and CNS-1414119,
and by Google.
REFERENCES
[1] Sebastian Angel and Srinath T. V. Setty. 2016. Unobservable Communi-
cation over Fully Untrusted Infrastructure. In 12th USENIX Symposium
on Operating Systems Design and Implementation, OSDI 2016, Savan-
nah, GA, USA, November 2-4, 2016. 551–569. https://www.usenix.org/
conference/osdi16/technical-sessions/presentation/angel
[2] Kevin S. Bauer, Damon McCoy, Dirk Grunwald, Tadayoshi Kohno, and
Douglas C. Sicker. 2007. Low-resource routing attacks against Tor.
In Proceedings of the 2007 ACM Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic
Society, WPES 2007, Alexandria, V A, USA, October 29, 2007. 11–20. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/1314333.1314336
[3] Stephanie Bayer and Jens Groth. 2012. Efficient Zero-Knowledge
Argument for Correctness of a Shuffle. In EUROCRYPT (Lecture Notes
in Computer Science), Vol. 7237. Springer, 263–280. http://dx.doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-642-29011-4
[4] Mihir Bellare and Phillip Rogaway. 1993. Random Oracles are Practical:
A Paradigm for Designing Efficient Protocols. In ACM Conference on
Computer and Communications Security , Dorothy E. Denning, Ray-
mond Pyle, Ravi Ganesan, Ravi S. Sandhu, and Victoria Ashby (Eds.).
ACM, 62–73. http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=168588
[5] Daniel J. Bernstein. 2006. Curve25519: New Diffie-Hellman Speed
Records. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, 207–228.
https://doi.org/10.1007/11745853_14
[6] Nikita Borisov. 2005. An Analysis of Parallel Mixing with Attacker-
Controlled Inputs. In Privacy Enhancing Technologies (Lecture Notes
in Computer Science), George Danezis and David M. Martin Jr (Eds.),
Vol. 3856. Springer, 12–25. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/11767831_2
[7] Xiang Cai, Xin Cheng Zhang, Brijesh Joshi, and Rob Johnson. 2012.
Touching from a distance: website fingerprinting attacks and defenses.

Stadium: A Distributed Metadata-Private Messaging System SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China
In the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security,
CCS’12, Raleigh, NC, USA, October 16-18, 2012 . 605–616. https://doi.
org/10.1145/2382196.2382260
[8] David Chaum. 1981. Untraceable Electronic Mail, Return Addresses,
and Digital Pseudonyms. Commun. ACM 24, 2 (1981), 84–88. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/358549.358563
[9] David Chaum. 1988. The Dining Cryptographers Problem: Uncondi-
tional Sender and Recipient Untraceability. J. Cryptology 1, 1 (1988),
65–75. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00206326
[10] David Chaum, Farid Javani, Aniket Kate, Anna Krasnova, Joeri de
Ruiter, and Alan T. Sherman. 2016. cMix: Anonymization by High-
Performance Scalable Mixing. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive 2016
(2016), 8. http://eprint.iacr.org/2016/008
[11] David Chaum and Torben Pryds Pedersen. 1992. Wallet Databases with
Observers (Extended Abstract). InAdvances in Cryptology—CRYPTO ’92
(Lecture Notes in Computer Science) , Ernest F. Brickell (Ed.), Vol. 740.
Springer-Verlag, 1993, 89–105.
[12] Raymond Cheng, William Scott, Bryan Parno, Arvind Krishnamurthy,
and Thomas Anderson. 2016. Talek: a Private Publish-Subscribe Protocol.
Technical Report. University of Washington.
[13] Michael E. Clarkson, Stephen Chong, and Andrew C. Myers. 2007.
Civitas: A Secure Remote Voting System. In Frontiers of Electronic
Voting, 29.07. - 03.08.2007 . http://drops.dagstuhl.de/opus/volltexte/
2008/1296
[14] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Dan Boneh, and David Mazières. 2015. Riposte:
An Anonymous Messaging System Handling Millions of Users. In2015
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, SP 2015, San Jose, CA, USA,
May 17-21, 2015. 321–338. https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2015.27
[15] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs and Bryan Ford. 2010. Dissent: accountable
anonymous group messaging. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM Confer-
ence on Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2010, Chicago, Illi-
nois, USA, October 4-8, 2010 . 340–350. https://doi.org/10.1145/1866307.
1866346
[16] Artur Czumaj and Berthold Vöcking. 2014. Thorp Shuffling, Butter-
flies, and Non-Markovian Couplings. In Automata, Languages, and
Programming - 41st International Colloquium, ICALP 2014, Copenhagen,
Denmark, July 8-11, 2014, Proceedings, Part I . 344–355.
[17] George Danezis, Roger Dingledine, and Nick Mathewson. 2003.
Mixminion: Design of a Type III Anonymous Remailer Protocol. In2003
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P 2003), 11-14 May 2003,
Berkeley, CA, USA. 2–15. https://doi.org/10.1109/SECPRI.2003.1199323
[18] Roger Dingledine, Nick Mathewson, and Paul F. Syverson. 2004. Tor:
The Second-Generation Onion Router. In Proceedings of the 13th
USENIX Security Symposium, August 9-13, 2004, San Diego, CA, USA .
303–320. http://www.usenix.org/publications/library/proceedings/
sec04/tech/dingledine.html
[19] Roger Dingledine, Vitaly Shmatikov, and Paul F. Syverson. 2004. Syn-
chronous Batching: From Cascades to Free Routes. In Privacy En-
hancing Technologies, 4th International Workshop, PET 2004, Toronto,
Canada, May 26-28, 2004, Revised Selected Papers . 186–206. https:
//doi.org/10.1007/11423409_12
[20] Cynthia Dwork and Aaron Roth. 2014. The Algorithmic Foundations
of Differential Privacy. Foundations and Trends in Theoretical Computer
Science 9, 3-4 (2014), 211–407. http://dx.doi.org/10.1561/0400000042
[21] Kevin P. Dyer, Scott E. Coull, Thomas Ristenpart, and Thomas Shrimp-
ton. 2012. Peek-a-Boo, I Still See You: Why Efficient Traffic Anal-
ysis Countermeasures Fail. In IEEE Symposium on Security and Pri-
vacy, SP 2012, 21-23 May 2012, San Francisco, California, USA . 332–346.
https://doi.org/10.1109/SP.2012.28
[22] Amos Fiat and Adi Shamir. 1986. How to Prove Yourself: Practical
Solutions to Identification and Signature Problems. InCRYPTO (Lecture
Notes in Computer Science), Andrew M. Odlyzko (Ed.), Vol. 263. Springer,
186–194. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/3-540-47721-7_12
[23] Jun Furukawa and Kazue Sako. 2001. An Efficient Scheme for Proving a
Shuffle. In Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2001, 21st Annual Interna-
tional Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, California, USA, August 19-
23, 2001, Proceedings. 368–387. https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44647-8_
22
[24] Nethanel Gelernter, Amir Herzberg, and Hemi Leibowitz. 2016. Two
Cents for Strong Anonymity: The Anonymous Post-office Protocol.
IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive 2016 (2016), 489. http://eprint.iacr.org/
2016/489
[25] Sharad Goel, Mark Robson, Milo Polte, and Emin Sirer. 2003. Herbi-
vore: A Scalable and Efficient Protocol for Anonymous Communication .
Technical Report. Cornell University.
[26] Philippe Golle and Ari Juels. 2004. Parallel mixing. In Proceedings of
the 11th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security,
CCS 2004, Washington, DC, USA, October 25-29, 2004 . 220–226. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/1030083.1030113
[27] Ceki Gülcü and Gene Tsudik. 1996. Mixing Email with Babel. In 1996
Symposium on Network and Distributed System Security, (S)NDSS ’96,
San Diego, CA, February 22-23, 1996 . 2–16. https://doi.org/10.1109/
NDSS.1996.492350
[28] Johan Håstad. 2006. The square lattice shuffle. Random Struct. Algo-
rithms 29, 4 (2006), 466–474.
[29] Markus Jakobsson, Ari Juels, and Ronald L. Rivest. 2002. Making Mix
Nets Robust for Electronic Voting by Randomized Partial Checking. In
Proceedings of the 11th USENIX Security Symposium, San Francisco, CA,
USA, August 5-9, 2002. 339–353. http://www.usenix.org/publications/
library/proceedings/sec02/jakobsson.html
[30] Aaron Johnson, Chris Wacek, Rob Jansen, Micah Sherr, and Paul F.
Syverson. 2013. Users get routed: traffic correlation on Tor by real-
istic adversaries. In 2013 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
Communications Security, CCS’13, Berlin, Germany, November 4-8, 2013 .
337–348. https://doi.org/10.1145/2508859.2516651
[31] Dogan Kesdogan, Jan Egner, and Roland Büschkes. 1998. Stop-and-
Go-MIXes Providing Probabilistic Anonymity in an Open System. In
Information Hiding, Second International Workshop, Portland, Oregon,
USA, April 14-17, 1998, Proceedings . 83–98. https://doi.org/10.1007/
3-540-49380-8_7
[32] Albert Kwon, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Srinivas Devadas, and Bryan
Ford. 2017. Atom: Horizontally scaling strong anonymity. In Sympo-
sium on Operating Systems Principles .
[33] Albert Kwon, David Lazar, Srinivas Devadas, and Bryan Ford. 2016.
Riffle: An Efficient Communication System With Strong Anonymity.
PoPETs 2016, 2 (2016), 115–134. http://www.degruyter.com/view/j/
popets.2015.2016.issue-2/popets-2016-0008/popets-2016-0008.xml
[34] David Lazar and Nickolai Zeldovich. 2016. Alpenhorn: Bootstrapping
Secure Communication without Leaking Metadata. In 12th USENIX
Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation, OSDI
2016, Savannah, GA, USA, November 2-4, 2016. 571–586. https://www.
usenix.org/conference/osdi16/technical-sessions/presentation/lazar
[35] C. Andrew Neff. 2001. A verifiable secret shuffle and its application
to e-voting. In CCS 2001, Proceedings of the 8th ACM Conference on
Computer and Communications Security, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
USA, November 6-8, 2001. 116–125. https://doi.org/10.1145/501983.
502000
[36] W. Norton. 2010. Internet Transit Prices - Historical and Pro-
jected. Technical Report. http://drpeering.net/white-papers/
Internet-Transit-Pricing-Historical-And-Projected.php
[37] Ania M. Piotrowska, Jamie Hayes, Tariq Elahi, Sebastian Meiser, and
George Danezis. 2017. The Loopix Anonymity System. In 26th USENIX
Security Symposium, USENIX Security 2017, Vancouver, BC, Canada,
August 16-18, 2017. 1199–1216. https://www.usenix.org/conference/

SOSP ’17, October 28, 2017, Shanghai, China Tyagi et al.
usenixsecurity17/technical-sessions/presentation/piotrowska
[38] Charles Rackoff and Daniel R. Simon. 1993. Cryptographic Defense
Against Traffic Analysis. In Proceedings of the Twenty-fifth Annual
ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC ’93) . ACM, New York,
NY, USA, 672–681. https://doi.org/10.1145/167088.167260
[39] Alan Rusbridger. 2013. The Snowden Leaks and the Public. The
New-York Review of Book. (Nov. 2013).
[40] Claus-Peter Schnorr. 1989. Efficient Identification and Signatures
for Smart Cards. In Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO ’89, 9th An-
nual International Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, California,
USA, August 20-24, 1989, Proceedings . 239–252. https://doi.org/10.1007/
0-387-34805-0_22
[41] Victor Shoup. 2016. NTL: A Library for doing Number Theory. http:
//www.shoup.net/ntl/. (2016).
[42] Paul F. Syverson, David M. Goldschlag, and Michael G. Reed. 1997.
Anonymous Connections and Onion Routing. In 1997 IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy, May 4-7, 1997, Oakland, CA, USA . 44–54. https:
//doi.org/10.1109/SECPRI.1997.601314
[43] The Tor Project. 2016. Tor Metrics: Advertised Relay Band-
width. https://metrics.torproject.org/advbwdist-perc.html?start=
2016-03-15&end=2016-09-15&p=97. (May 2016).
[44] Nirvan Tyagi, Yossi Gilad, Matei Zaharia, and Nickolai Zeldovich. 2016.
Stadium: A Distributed Metadata-Private Messaging System. IACR
Cryptology ePrint Archive 2016 (2016), 943. http://eprint.iacr.org/2016/
943
[45] Jelle van den Hooff, David Lazar, Matei Zaharia, and Nickolai Zeldovich.
2015. Vuvuzela: scalable private messaging resistant to traffic analysis.
In Proceedings of the 25th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles,
SOSP 2015, Monterey, CA, USA, October 4-7, 2015 . 137–152. https://doi.
org/10.1145/2815400.2815417
[46] Tao Wang and Ian Goldberg. 2013. Improved website fingerprinting
on Tor. In Proceedings of the 12th annual ACM Workshop on Privacy in
the Electronic Society, WPES 2013, Berlin, Germany, November 4, 2013 .
201–212. https://doi.org/10.1145/2517840.2517851
[47] David Isaac Wolinsky, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Bryan Ford, and Aaron
Johnson. 2012. Dissent in Numbers: Making Strong Anonymity Scale.
In 10th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Imple-
mentation, OSDI 2012, Hollywood, CA, USA, October 8-10, 2012 . 179–
182. https://www.usenix.org/conference/osdi12/technical-sessions/
presentation/wolinsky