Canal: Scaling Social Network-Based Sybil Tolerance Schem es
Bimal Viswanath
MPI-SWS
bviswana@mpi-sws.org
Mainack Mondal
MPI-SWS
mainack@mpi-sws.org
Krishna P . Gummadi
MPI-SWS
gummadi@mpi-sws.org
Alan Mislove
Northeastern University
amislove@ccs.neu.edu
Ansley Post
MPI-SWS
abpost@mpi-sws.org
Abstract
There has been a ﬂurry of research on leveraging social net-
works to defend against multiple identity, or Sybil, attacks. A
series of recent works does not try to explicitly identify Sybil
identities and, instead, bounds the impact that Sybil ident i-
ties can have. We call these approaches Sybil tolerance; they
have shown to be effective in applications including repu-
tation systems, spam protection, online auctions, and con-
tent rating systems. All of these approaches use a social net -
work as a credit network, rendering multiple identities in-
effective to an attacker without a commensurate increase in
social links to honest users (which are assumed to be hard to
obtain). Unfortunately, a hurdle to practical adoption is t hat
Sybil tolerance relies on computationally expensive network
analysis, thereby limiting widespread deployment.
To address this problem, we ﬁrst demonstrate that despite
their differences, all proposed Sybil tolerance systems wo rk
by conducting payments over credit networks. These pay-
ments require max ﬂow computations on a social network
graph, and lead to poor scalability. We then present Canal,
a system that uses landmark routing-based techniques to ef-
ﬁciently approximate credit payments over large networks.
Through an evaluation on real-world data, we show that
Canal provides up to a three-order-of-magnitude speedup
while maintaining safety and accuracy, even when applied
to social networks with millions of nodes and hundreds of
millions of edges. Finally, we demonstrate that Canal can
be easily plugged into existing Sybil tolerance schemes, en -
abling them to be deployed in an online fashion in real-world
systems.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of thi s work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies ar e not made or distributed
for proﬁt or commercial advantage and that copies bear this n otice and the full citation
on the ﬁrst page. To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on s ervers or to redistribute
to lists, requires prior speciﬁc permission and/or a fee.
EuroSys’12, April 10–13, 2012, Bern, Switzerland.
Copyright c© 2012 ACM 978-1-4503-1223-3/12/04. . . $10.00
Categories and Subject Descriptors C.4 [ Perfor-
mance of Systems ]: Design studies; C.2.0 [ Computer-
Communication Networks ]: General—Security and protec-
tion
General Terms Algorithms, Design, Performance, Secu-
rity
Keywords Sybil attacks; social networks; sybil tolerance;
social network-based Sybil defense; credit networks
1. Introduction
Multiple identity attacks—commonly known as Sybil at-
tacks [10]—are known to be a fundamental problem in many
distributed systems. In a Sybil attack, a malicious user cre -
ates multiple identities and takes advantage of these ident i-
ties to attack the system. For example, in social networking
sites like Digg or Y ouTube, where content is rated based on
user feedback, an attacker can create multiple identities a nd
cast multiple votes, thereby manipulating content popular -
ity. Recent studies have shown that Sybil attacks are becom-
ing more widespread [42], affecting news aggregators like
Digg [35], microblogs like Twitter [46], and review sites like
TripAdvisor [33].
Recently, a series of schemes have been proposed that de-
fend against Sybil attacks by leveraging social networks [2 4,
29, 34, 35]. These schemes are based on the assumption that,
although an attacker can create an arbitrary number of Sybil
identities, she cannot establish an arbitrarily large numb er of
social connections to non-Sybil identities. In contrast to pre-
vious social network-based Sybil detection, e.g. [6, 44, 45 ],
the schemes we consider do not explicitly identify Sybil
identities in the network but, instead, bound the impact tha t
Sybil identities can have. This approach is called Sybil tol-
erance [39]; these schemes have been shown to be effec-
tive in applications including reputation systems [9], spa m
protection [24], online auctions [29], and content rating s ys-
tems [35].

We demonstrate that despite their differences, all of these
schemes work by assigning credit values to links in a so-
cial network, and then conducting payments between nodes
in the network. Effectively, these schemes are using credit
networks [5, 12] as a basis for Sybil tolerance. 1 Unfortu-
nately, these schemes do not scale well to large social net-
works. Finding routes for credit payments can be reduced to
determining the maximum ﬂow [11] between nodes in the
network; doing this over large graphs is known to be expen-
sive [13], and existing techniques for pre-calculating [14] the
maximum ﬂow are not directly applicable since the credit
network is constantly changing. This serves as a practical
deployment barrier, and to the best of our knowledge, none
of these Sybil tolerance schemes have been deployed in a
real-world system.
In this paper, we address this situation and scale Sybil tol-
erance schemes to extremely large graphs. We build Canal, a
system that can efﬁciently approximate credit payments ove r
large, dynamic networks. Canal trades accuracy for speed;
we demonstrate that Canal’s approximation rarely impacts
users and does not change the Sybil tolerance properties
of the application or beneﬁt malicious users. We show that
Canal can be directly plugged into existing Sybil tolerance
schemes, and would reduce the credit payment latency from
multiple seconds to a few hundred microseconds.
In more detail, Canal uses a novel landmark routing-
based algorithm, routing credit payments via landmark
nodes [36]. Canal consists of two components: a set of uni-
verse creator processes, which continually select new land-
marks, and a set of path stitcher processes, which contin-
ually process incoming credit payment requests. Since the
credit network is constantly changing (due to credit move-
ments, as well as new identities and social links), Canal con -
tinually calculates new landmarks in parallel with making
ﬂow calculations. We design Canal to naturally take advan-
tage of multiple cores and machines, enabling Canal to run
over social networks that cannot be stored on a single ma-
chine.
We evaluate Canal on real-world networks at scale. We
ﬁrst demonstrate that Canal’s approximation provides a dra -
matic speedup in the processing of credit payments, enabling
Canal to be run in an online fashion. We then show that
the approximation that Canal uses rarely impacts users, and
that users eventually receive the same total available cred it
in Canal as they would in an exact system. Finally, we re-
run the experimental setup of two previously proposed Sybil
tolerance schemes, and demonstrate that using Canal would
provide up to a 2,329-fold speedup in runtime while main-
taining over 94% accuracy. This shows that existing schemes
can naturally leverage Canal, and that Canal enables new
1 Credit networks are a concept borrowed from the electronic c ommerce
community. Credit networks provide a way to model trust between identities
in a distributed system and leverage it as a payment infrastr ucture for
transactions between arbitrary identities, even in the abs ence of a central
trusted bank and common currency.
schemes to be designed to inherit the beneﬁts of credit net-
works.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec-
tion 2 provides background on the Sybil tolerance schemes
we consider, and Section 3 provides background on the
credit networks that underlie these schemes. Section 4 de-
scribes the design of Canal. Section 5 provides Canal mi-
crobenchmarks on real-world graph data, and Section 6 eval-
uates the performance of Canal when applied to real-world
Sybil tolerance schemes. Section 7 concludes.
2. Background and related work
In this section, we give a brief overview of the prior work
on social network-based Sybil defenses, with the goal of
placing the contributions of this paper into context. A more
extensive background is provided in [39]; we review the
details relevant to Canal here. For the remainder of this
paper, we consider identity-based systems where each user
is intended to have a single identity and is expected to use the
identity when interacting with other users in the system. In
such systems, we call a user with multiple identities a Sybil
user and each identity she uses a Sybil identity.
We divide the related work on Sybil defense into three
classes, discussed in the sections below: Sybil prevention ,
Sybil detection, and Sybil tolerance.
2.1 Sybil prevention
Traditional defenses against Sybil attacks rely on either
trusting central authorities or tying identities to resour ces
that are hard to forge or obtain in abundance, preventing a
user from creating many Sybil identities in the ﬁrst place. W e
term these approaches Sybil prevention . For instance, sys-
tems like Cyworld [4] require users to present veriﬁed ident i-
ties, such as passports or social security numbers, when cre -
ating new accounts. Other approaches include solving mem-
ory or CPU-intensive crypto-puzzles before granting acces s
to system services [1–3, 41].
2.2 Sybil detection
Researchers have also explored allowing Sybil identities t o
be created but later detecting the identities and preventin g
them from interacting with other users (e.g., banning those
identities) [32]. We term these approaches Sybil detection.
Recently, researchers have explored analyzing the struc-
ture of the social network as a mechanism for Sybil detec-
tion [6, 20, 30, 34, 44, 45]. To identify Sybils, all social
network-based Sybil detection schemes make two common
assumptions [43]:
1. Although an attacker can create an arbitrary number of
Sybil identities in the social network, she cannot establish
an arbitrary number of social connections to non-Sybil
identities.

2. The non-Sybil region of the network is densely connected
(or fast-mixing [25]), meaning random walks in the non-
Sybil region quickly reach a stationary distribution.
The ﬁrst assumption concerns how the Sybil and non-
Sybil identities are connected and is necessary in order for
the schemes to be able to leverage the social network; if it
were not assumed, the attacker could establish social net-
work links at will. While this assumption may not hold on
all online social networks, recent work suggests that there
are social networks where this assumption holds true [28].
The second assumption concerns the internal structure of th e
non-Sybil region and is necessary for these schemes to locate
the boundary between the non-Sybil region and the Sybil
region. If the second assumption did not to hold (implying
small cuts existed within the non-Sybil region), the honest
identities on either sides of cuts are likely be blocked from
interacting with each other [40]. 2
2.3 Sybil tolerance
More recently, a series of schemes has taken an alternate
approach to defend against Sybils. Instead of trying to ex-
plicitly label identities as Sybil or non-Sybil, these sche mes
are designed to limit the impact that a malicious user can
have on others, regardless of the number of identities the
malicious user possesses. We refer to these schemes as Sybil
tolerance [39]. Sybil tolerance schemes make the same as-
sumption 1 from Section 2.2, but avoid making assumption
2. Instead, they require more information about the system
to which they are applied: In addition to the social network,
these schemes also take as input the interactions between
users. By doing so, they are able to allow or deny individual
interactions, and reason about the impact (in terms of inter -
actions) that identities have on one another.
The result is that the guarantees of Sybil tolerance are
expressed in terms of interactions that are allowed. To com-
pare, Sybil detection schemes reason only about identities
(i.e., they reason about identities being admitted, and express
their guarantees in terms of the number of Sybil identities
admitted), while Sybil tolerance schemes reason about in-
teractions (i.e., they decide whether certain interaction s are
allowed or denied). Thus, in a Sybil tolerance scheme, a cer-
tain pair of identities may be allowed to participate in cert ain
interactions and not others, and may be allowed to interact
at certain times and not others (all depending on the state of
the system).
We now provide a brief overview of three example Sybil
tolerance schemes. It is important to note that other Sybil
2 Researchers have begun to explore whether the second assump tion holds
in practice. Unfortunately, recent work [26] demonstrates that the mixing
time for many real-world networks is substantially higher t han was previ-
ously thought, suggesting that the networks are actually not fast mixing.
Additionally, another study [19] demonstrates that in real -world social net-
works, identities in the periphery are often organized into densely connected
clusters that connect to the rest of the network via a small cu t.
tolerance schemes exist [9, 27], but we only discuss the three
below for brevity.
Ostra [24] is targeted at countering unwanted communi-
cation (i.e., spam). Ostra assumes the existence of a social
network, and assigns credit values to the links. When a user
wishes to send a message to another user, Ostra locates a
path with available credit from the source to the destinatio n.
If such a path is found, credit is “paid” from each user to the
next along the path, and the credit is refunded if the message
is not marked as spam. If no path can be found, the message
is blocked from being sent.
SumUp [35] is designed to prevent users with multiple
identities from manipulating object ratings in content sha r-
ing systems like Digg. SumUp assumes the existence of a
social network and selects a trusted vote collector. SumUp
then assigns weights to the links around the vote collector b y
handing out “tokens” (causing the links around the vote col-
lector to be more highly weighted; links farther away are as-
signed weight 1). Finally, to vote, each voting identity mus t
ﬁnd a path with credit between himself and the vote collec-
tor and consume a credit along that path; if no such path can
be found, the vote is discarded.
Bazaar [29] provides stronger user reputations in online
marketplaces like eBay. To do so, Bazaar creates a trans-
action network (akin to a social network) by linking pairs
of identities that have successfully completed a transacti on;
the weight of each link is the dollar value of the transaction .
When a new transaction is about to take place, Bazaar com-
pares the value of the new transaction to the max ﬂow be-
tween the buyer and seller. If sufﬁcient ﬂow is found, credit
totaling the value of the transaction is removed between the
buyer and seller, and is added back if the transaction is late r
reported to not be fraudulent. Otherwise, if sufﬁcient ﬂow i s
not found, the new transaction is denied.
Unfortunately, these schemes all tend to require signif-
icant computational resources in order to locate paths for
credit payments. For example, on average, Bazaar takes over
6 seconds of CPU time to determine whether sufﬁcient ﬂow
exists on a network with 5.5 M links [29], and Ostra requires
over 35 milliseconds on a network with 3.4 M links [24].
Given that both of these are intended to be run in an online
fashion, Bazaar would require an average of 6 seconds of
CPU time for every bid on a marketplace like eBay, and Os-
tra would require an average of 35 milliseconds of additional
CPU time for every message sent. Both of these represent
substantial computational resource investments. With eve r-
larger and denser networks being created, it is unsurprisin g
that—to the best of our knowledge—none of these schemes
have been deployed in a real-world system.
The underlying reason for this high computation time is
that these systems are required to check for credits on all
possible paths, requiring one or more breadth-ﬁrst-search es
(BFSs) over the graph, with O(E) cost per BFS.

A B
5
2
Figure 1. Simple credit network between two nodes A and
B, with credit available cab and cba shown. In this exam-
ple, A has 5 credits available from B, and B has 2 credits
available from A.
3. Sybil tolerance and credit networks
We now show that Sybil tolerance schemes are all effectively
using credit networks . We ﬁrst give a brief overview of
credit networks before describing how existing systems are
leveraging them internally.
3.1 Credit networks
Credit networks [5, 12] were ﬁrst introduced in the elec-
tronic commerce community in order to build transitive trus t
protocols in an environment where there is only pairwise
trust between accounts and there are no central trusted enti -
ties. In a credit network, identities (nodes) trust each other by
offering pairwise credit (links) up to a certain limit. Node s
can use the credit to pay for services they receive from each
other. The credit network could also be used as a payment in-
frastructure between nodes that do not directly extend cred it
to each other. Nodes can route credit payments to a remote
node via network paths that traverse over links where credit s
are available (see Figures 1 and 2).
Formally, a credit network is a directed graph G = (V, E)
where V is the set of nodes and E is the set of labeled
edges. Each directed edge (a, b) ∈ E is labeled with a
dynamic scalar value cab, called the available credit, and is
initialized to Cab. Intuitively, Cab represents the initial credit
allocation that b gives to a, and cab represents the amount
of unconsumed credit that b has extended to a. Note that
cab ≥ 0 at all times.
Payments between two nodes in a credit network are con-
tingent upon the availability of credit along network paths
connecting the nodes. If a node a wishes to pay node b a
total of c credits, then a path
a → u1 → ... → un → b
(which could just be a → b) must exist where c credits are
available on each (i, j) link (i.e., cij ≥ c). If so, the credit
available on each directed edge cij on the path from a to b is
decreased by c. As a result of this action, each node “pays”
c credits to its successor on the path to b.
It is not necessary to ﬁnd a single path with available
credit along each edge; instead, the payment could be split
across multiple paths. For example, consider the network
shown in Figure 3. In this scenario, node A could pay 4
credits to node E by paying 2 credits along A → B →
C → E and 2 credits along A → B → D → E.
A B
5
2
3
9
1
4C DE
F G
Figure 2. More complex credit network, with credit avail-
able (cij) shown for each link. In this example, A can pay 1
credit to D along the path A → B → C → D. After pay-
ing the credit, the values on these links would be 4, 2, and
0, respectively. Note that, for simplicity, the links not on this
path are only shown as dashed lines.
3.2 Sybil tolerant nature of available credit
Credit networks have been shown to be naturally tolerant to
Sybil attacks [31]. In brief, we assume that an attacker is
allowed to create as many identities as she wishes and ma-
nipulate the available credit on links between identities s he
owns. However, the attacker is able to establish only a lim-
ited number of links to non-malicious users (by assumption
1 in Section 2.2), and she can not manipulate the credit avail-
able to him on these links.
As shown in Figure 4, the total amount of available credit
to the malicious user is the sum of the available credit on
her links to other users. An attacker with an arbitrary num-
ber of Sybil identities has exactly the same available credi t
as the attacker with just one identity; in this case, the rele -
vant set of edges is the cut between the subgraph consisting
of the attacker’s Sybil identities and the rest of the networ k.
Any available credit on edges between the attacker’s Sybil
identities does not matter, because it does not enable ad-
5
2
3
9
X
2 2
10 
6
X
1
X2
X3
Rest of the 
network A
Figure 4. Credit networks leading to Sybil tolerance. User
X can create any number of identities ( X1, X2, X3) and ar-
bitrarily assign the credit available between them. Howeve r,
if X wishes to pay credits from any of these identities to an-
other identity in the rest of the network, the credits must be
debited from X’s single valid link to A. Thus, the multiple
identities do not enable any additional available credit wi th
nodes in the rest of the network.

5 3
A B
9
C
D
E
3 6
(a)
3 1
A B
5
C
D
E
1 4
(b)
Figure 3. The (a) initial and (b) ﬁnal state of the credit network with a credit payment along multiple paths. A pays 4 credits
to E: 2 credits are paid along the path A → B → C → E and 2 credits are paid along the path A → B → D → E.
ditional payments to legitimate nodes. Moreover, collusio n
between malicious users does not enable the users to access
more available credit together than they could separately.
Thus, available credit in a credit network is resilient to
Sybil attacks.
3.3 Credit networks in existing systems
We now brieﬂy discuss how the three example schemes
discussed in Section 2.3 all work by essentially perform-
ing payments over credit networks. First, we note that each
of the schemes internally uses a credit network: In Ostra
and SumUp, the credit network is based on an externally
provided social network, and in Bazaar, the credit network
(called the risk network ) is constructed from the feedback
on prior transactions. Second, we observe that each scheme
assigns available credit to links: In Ostra, the initial available
credit is statically deﬁned by the system operator, in SumUp ,
the credit is assigned by a token distribution mechanism, and
in Bazaar, the credit is increased after each successful tra ns-
action.
Third, we observe that these schemes work by paying
credits along paths between identities. In Ostra, a sender
must ﬁrst pay a receiver one credit before sending a message;
if the sender is out of credit, the message is not delivered. 3
Similarly, in SumUp, each voter must pay one credit to
the vote collector; if no path exists between the voter and
vote collector with available credit, the vote is not counte d.
Finally, in Bazaar, when a transaction is about to occur, the
system insists that the buyer pay the seller a number of
credits corresponding to the new transaction value; if the
sufﬁcient available credit does not exist, the transaction is
blocked.4
3.4 Computation speed of credit payments
The high computation time that Sybil tolerance schemes ex-
perience is explained by the use of credit payments over so-
cial networks. First, we observe that performing a credit pay-
ment involves searching for one or more paths with avail-
3 In Ostra, when a sender pays a credit to a receiver, a credit is debited from
the sender–receiver path and, at the same time, added to the reverse path.
Doing so allows Ostra to ensure liveness (as there is always c redit available
in the system).
4 In Bazaar, this credit payment is undone if the transaction t urns out not to
be fraudulent.
able credit between two nodes; this is essentially the max-
imum ﬂow problem [11], which is known to be a com-
putationally expensive operation. The most efﬁcient algo-
rithms for the maximum ﬂow problem run in O(V 3) [13]
or O(V 2 log(E)) [8] time. Second, techniques that pre-
calculate the all-pairs maximum ﬂow (e.g., Gomory-Hu
trees [14]) cannot be applied to Sybil tolerance schemes,
as these techniques assume a static network and impose
a large, upfront pre-calculation cost of |V | − 1 maximum
ﬂow computations. Credit networks are constantly changing
due to credit manipulations as well as new users and links;
performing |V | − 1 maximum ﬂow computations for every
change in the credit network is impractical. Additionally, al-
gorithms [17] that dynamically maintain a Gomory-Hu tree
when the edge capacities increase or decrease often end up
being expensive as well, requiring several maximum ﬂow
computations for each edge capacity update.
4. Canal design
We now detail the design of Canal, ﬁrst giving a high-level
overview of the model and goals of Canal before detailing
the internal design.
4.1 Model and goals
Canal is designed to run alongside an existing Sybil toler-
ance scheme, providing two services: (a) maintaining the
state of the credit network and (b) conducting credit pay-
ments. Canal is built to provide these services in a much
faster manner than current implementations. We assume that
Canal is run by the same organization that runs the Sybil
tolerance scheme (alleviating concerns about Canal having
access to potentially private social network data).
In order for existing Sybil tolerance systems like Bazaar
and SumUp to take advantage of Canal, they need only allow
Canal to store the credit network and replace any internal
logic for conducting payments with calls into Canal. To
avoid having to rebuild existing systems from scratch, Cana l
exports an API which can be easily used by existing Sybil
tolerant applications. The API includes methods to initial ize
and add links to the credit network, but we are primarily
concerned with the method
boolean payment(a,b,c)

that attempts a payment of c credits from identity a to iden-
tity b, and returns whether or not the payment could be made.
Canal responds to payment requests using an approxi-
mation that only considers a subset of the paths that exist
when handling payments. As a result, Canal may not be able
to ﬁnd paths with available credit between a pair of users
even though such paths exist. However, Canal will never ﬁnd
paths that do not exist or paths that do exist but do not have
any available credit. Thus, Canal can suffer from false nega-
tives (i.e., a payment is denied even though paths with avail-
able credit exist) but does not suffer from false positives (i.e.,
a payment is allowed even though sufﬁcient credit is not ac-
tually available).
4.2 Design challenges
In order for Canal to be used in a real-world application, it
has to overcome several challenges:
• Latency: Sybil tolerance schemes make user-visible de-
cisions based on whether credit payments can be made.
Thus, they will be practically deployable only if the
Canal processing time is very fast (preferably in the order
of a few milliseconds).
• Efﬁciency: Sybil tolerance schemes often have to process
large numbers of payments in a short period of time;
Canal must be deployable with reasonable computational
resources.
• Scalability: Sybil tolerance schemes are designed to be
run on very large social networks. Canal should support
credit networks with hundreds of millions of links or
more.
• Accuracy: Canal trades off accuracy for speed. The error
introduced should not impact the Sybil tolerance guaran-
tees, and should rarely impact users.
• Dynamicity: The credit network is constantly changing,
due to payments being processed and changes to the
social network. Canal should be able to support such a
rapidly changing credit network.
4.3 Using landmark routing
Canal speeds up payments using a landmark routing-based
technique. Historically, landmark routing [36] has enable d
paths to be found between any pair of nodes via certain spe-
ciﬁc nodes (called landmarks). To do so, each node deter-
mines its path to the landmark; to route between a pair of
non-landmark nodes, we need only have each route to the
landmark. This is effectively stitching a path together out
of two paths, and the stitched path may be longer than the
shortest path (this is particularly likely when the landmar k is
located far away from the two nodes).
Canal’s selection of landmark nodes is driven by three
concerns, discussed in detail in the subsections below: Fir st,
we wish to be able to ﬁnd short paths between nodes, but we
are not required to use the absolute shortest path (Sybil tol -
Level 0 landmark Level 1 landmarks Level 2 landmarks 
Universe 
Figure 5. Diagram of a 2-level landmark universe, consist-
ing of multiple levels of landmarks. Each level i has 2i land-
marks. Paths can be found using landmark routing; all nodes
share a level 0 landmark, and closer nodes share landmarks
at multiple levels (resulting in shorter paths). The landma rks
at lower levels induce partitions on the network (indicated
by dashed lines).
erance systems are designed so that any payment path will
do, but shorter paths often result in greater efﬁciency). Se c-
ond, landmark routing is not typically designed for dynamic
graphs (the paths to the landmark are generally treated as
static; if the credit network is changing, Canal needs to up-
date the paths to the landmarks). Third, we may need to con-
duct payments that require multiple paths (the credit avail -
able on any single path may not be sufﬁcient).
4.3.1 Finding short paths
Recent work has designed landmark routing techniques for
accurately ﬁnding shortest paths in large networks [16]; we
leverage this existing work to efﬁciently ﬁnd short paths. I n-
stead of using a single landmark, Canal uses a landmark uni-
verse with multiple levels. At each level i, there are 2i land-
marks selected randomly; each node ﬁnds a path to the clos-
est landmark at each level. Thus, if there are k levels, there
are a total of 2k+1 − 1 landmarks, and each node has paths to
k of these landmarks (one at each level). Furthermore, we re-
fer to a universe with k levels as a k-level landmark universe.
A diagram of a landmark universe is shown in Figure 5.
Using a landmark universe enables Canal to ﬁnd short
paths. To see why, ﬁrst consider a payment request between
two nodes who are on opposite sides of the network (i.e., two
nodes who have a relatively large shortest path length). For
this pair of nodes, the only landmark they are likely to share
is the level 0 landmark 5 (since they are far away, they are
likely to have paths to two different level 1 landmarks, and
two different level 2 landmarks, etc). Now consider the case
of a payment request between two nodes who are close in the
network. For this pair of nodes, there is likely to be a number
of landmarks shared between them (since they are close in
the network). By stitching a path between these nodes via
one of the higher-level landmarks, we are likely to ﬁnd a
short path. A full explanation is available in [7, 16].
5 Note that any pair of nodes is guaranteed to share at least one landmark in
a given universe (the level 0 landmark), although the stitch ed path via that
landmark is not guaranteed to have credit.

It is important to note that Canal’s correctness guarantees
are not affected if a Sybil node is selected as a landmark. On
the other hand, Sybil landmarks may affect the liveness of
paths stitched via that landmark, as links near the landmark
may not have credit. As a result, a Sybil landmark may not
be useful for routing credit payments. Since Canal typicall y
uses hundreds of landmarks at any time, Sybil landmarks
rarely impact Canal’s ability to route credit payments.
In Section 5, we show how the deployer of Canal can se-
lect the level k of each universe. Higher values of k allow
shorter paths to be located, but introduce an exponentially
increasing number of landmarks (and corresponding over-
head). In practice, setting k to 5 works well on the social
networks we use to evaluate Canal.
4.3.2 Handling dynamic credit networks
We observe that, due to the rapidly changing nature of the
credit network, any existing landmark data may quickly be-
come stale. For example, as new links are introduced into
the credit network, paths may exist that are not reﬂected in
the landmark universe. Similarly, as credit payments are pro-
cessed, paths near lower-level landmarks are likely to be-
come congested and may run out of available credit (since
a disproportionate number of credit payments will be routed
via these landmarks); this would prevent Canal from ﬁnding
available credit that may exist via other potential landmar ks.
Canal addresses this issue by continually constructing
landmark universes as it is running, replacing an old universe
whenever a new one is created. This serves two purposes.
First, continually constructing universes enables Canal to in-
corporate changes in the credit network into the landmark
path data. Second, continually constructing universes en-
sures that any node is only a landmark for a short period
of time, reducing the likelihood that the paths around the
landmark would become congested with credit payments.
4.3.3 Finding multiple paths
We noted above that Canal may need to conduct payments
that require multiple paths (i.e., in the example in Figure 3 ,
suppose A wishes to pay 5 credits to E). In particular, we
would like to be able to locate disjoint paths, as this increases
our likelihood of ﬁnding the necessary available credit.
Canal addresses this issue by keeping a queue of recent
landmark universes available. As new landmark universes
are generated, they are added to the end of the queue and
the oldest existing landmark universe is discarded. Keepin g
a set of universes available enables Canal to ﬁnd paths be-
tween pairs of nodes via the landmarks that exist in differen t
universes. By conﬁguring the number of landmark universes
that are stored in the queue, Canal can control the maximum
number of paths that can be used at once for a credit pay-
ment.
Canal 
Path 
stitcher 
Universe 
creator 
Common datastore 
Sybil 
tolerance 
scheme 
Figure 6. Canal system design.
4.4 Canal components
Figure 6 gives a high level view of Canal system design.
There are three main components in Canal: a common datas-
tore, universe creator processes, and path stitcher processes.
The common datastore serves as a location to store the land-
mark universes and the credit network. The universe creator
processes continually generate new landmark universes as
described above, and the path stitcher processes respond to
payment requests by the Sybil tolerance scheme. In the rest
of this section, we will discuss in detail the design of each
component.
4.4.1 Common datastore
The common datastore serves as the repository for the state
of the credit network as well as the landmark universes.
The credit network is stored as a hash table of links, with
each link stored with its current available credit. Because
multiple processes will be manipulating the values on the
credit network, each link also contains a shared/exclusive
lock that processes must obtain before reading/writing the
credit value. When a new link is added to the credit network,
its lock and credit available are ﬁrst initialized before it is
inserted into the credit network hash table.
The landmark universes are stored using a linked list, with
a global pointer to the head of the landmark universe list and
each landmark universe pointing to the next. Since multiple
processes will be scanning the landmark universe list, the
pointers are also protected with read/write locks which pro -
cesses obtain before following or changing a pointer.
The landmark universes themselves are represented as a
series of landmark maps with one landmark map for each
level in the landmark universe. Each landmark map contains
tuples
(node, landmark, next_hop)
with one entry for each node in the network. The landmark
represents the given node’s landmark at this level, and the
next hop represents the node’s next hop towards this land-
mark. By recursively following the next hops, each node
can reconstruct its path to the landmark. Thus, in a k-level

landmark universe, there are k landmark maps, each with an
entry for all nodes in the network. Thus, each landmark uni-
verse requires O(n·k) space, where n is the number of nodes
in the credit network.
4.4.2 Universe creator processes
We now describe the design of the universe creator pro-
cesses, which construct new landmark universes. Assume
that Canal is conﬁgured to construct k-level landmark uni-
verses. The universe creator processes all continually con -
struct landmark universes using the following approach,
taken from [16].
1. Randomly select k random node sets of sizes
20, 21, 22, 23, . . .2k respectively, from the network.
Let the selected sets be denoted by V0, V1, V2, . . . Vk.
These sets contain the new landmarks at each level.
2. For each set Vi, and every node u ∈ V , calculate the
shortest path from u to each of the landmark nodes in
each set Vi. This is done by having the processes perform
BFSs from each landmark in Vi.
3. Finally, using the BFSs, construct the landmark map for
level Vi by select the closest landmark node in Vi and the
next hop for all nodes.
In Canal, we speed up this universe creator process using
three techniques: First, Canal exploits the fact that condu ct-
ing the BFSs from the new landmarks can be parallelized.
We conﬁgure the BFSs to be conducted in parallel by a set
of slave threads. Second, to make sure that we only ﬁnd paths
with available credit, we design the BFS algorithm to only
consider edges with available credit. This allows newly con -
structed landmark universes to “route around” links which
have no available credit (and cannot be used for payments).
Third, the process of selecting the closest landmark at a
given level for all nodes (step 3 above) can be broken down
into a series of merges that can easily be parallelized as
well.6 Let us consider the 2i BFSs that are conducted when
constructing the landmark map for level Vi. Note that these
BFSs are completed at different times by different processes.
The landmark map is constructed by taking the ﬁrst BFS
and creating an entry for every node in the landmark map
pointing to the landmark at the root of the BFS. Then, as
subsequent BFSs complete, they are merged into the land-
mark map by scanning over the existing landmark map, and
changing any tuples where the node is closer to the new
landmark than to any landmark previously merged. In fact,
multiple landmark maps can be merged together in the same
manner, allowing all of the processes to contribute to con-
structing the landmark map.
Once the new landmark universe is constructed, it is
added on to the end of landmark universe list in the common
6 Our current implementation does not support the parallel BF S merge
feature. We plan to incorporate this in the future.
datastore. At the same time, the oldest landmark universe is
removed from the front of the list and discarded. This en-
sures that landmarks are only “active” for a short period of
time, reducing the likelihood that they will become hotspot s
in the network (Section 5 shows this happens rarely).
4.4.3 Path stitcher processes
Finally, we describe the design of the path stitcher processes,
which respond to payment requests from the Sybil tolerance
scheme. Let us suppose that a path stitcher process has
received a request to pay c credits from node a to b. At a high
level, the path stitcher process walks down the landmark
universe list, looking for paths with available credit betw een
a and b using the landmarks in each universe. As soon as
the path stitcher process has found paths with a total of c
available credits, it returns a successful result. Otherwi se, if
the path stitcher process reaches the end of the universe lis t
without ﬁnding a total of c credits, it returns an unsuccessful
result.
To ﬁnd paths with available credit in a single k-level
landmark universe, the path stitcher process executes the
following algorithm:
1. Scan the k landmark maps and collect the set of common
landmarks between a and b. Note that there is guaranteed
to be at least one common landmark (at level 0).
2. For each shared landmark, use the next hop in the land-
mark map to “stitch” together a path via the landmark.
3. Reﬁne the path by (a) eliminating any cycles and (b)
performing path short-cutting. To perform short-cutting,
we traverse the path up to the landmark node and see if
there is a link from any of these nodes to a node lying in
the path after the landmark node. If so, we short-circuit
the path by using that link to create a shorter path between
a and b.
This process results in up to L paths between a and b, where
L is the number of common landmarks in this universe. 7
Next, the path stitcher process pays as much credit as
possible along each path. For each path, the path stitcher
process walks the path, obtaining the lock on each link of
the path, temporarily lowering the credit available to 0, an d
then releasing the lock. Once the end of the path has been
reached, the path stitcher calculates the maximum credit
available on the entire path (determined by the link with
the minimal credit available); let this be C. Then, the path
stitcher process walks the path once more, locking each link
and resetting the credit available to be its previous value
minus C. This effects a removal of C credits along the entire
path.
Once sufﬁcient credit has been removed to meet the orig-
inal payment request, the path stitcher process returns a suc-
7 There could be potentially fewer resulting paths, as some of the paths may
end up duplicated (e.g., if a path happens to cross two landma rks). This
happens rarely in practice.

Avg. Avg. max ﬂow
Network Nodes Links degree time (s)
Renren [18] 33 K 1.4 M 21.1 0.352
Facebook [38] 63 K 1.6 M 25.7 0.445
Y ouTube [23] 1.1 M 5.8 M 5.2 2.91
Flickr [22] 1.6 M 30 M 18.8 15.2
Orkut [23] 3.1 M 234 M 76.3 220
T able 1. Statistics of the networks we evaluate Canal on.
Also included is the average time for completing a max ﬂow
computation.
cessful result. However, if the end of the universe list is
reached without enough credit being found, the path stitche r
process ﬁrst replaces any credit removed before returning a n
unsuccessful result.
The path stitching process is fast, since the landmark
paths are all pre-computed; the path stitcher process simpl y
walks the paths and removes available credit. Additionally ,
the path stitcher processes only ever hold a single link lock
at a given time, ensuring that Canal is deadlock-free. Finally,
the memory requirements of the path stitcher process is low,
as it only needs to temporarily store the paths where it has
removed credit.
4.5 Implementation
Our implementation of Canal is written in 2,269 lines of C++
(excluding publicly available libraries). The current imp le-
mentation is designed to be run on a single machine, and
uses Pthreads for the universe creator and path stitcher pro -
cesses and Pthread locks to protect shared data. Our im-
plementation is written so that the deployer can specify
the number of universe creator and path stitcher processes
to use; the tradeoff depends on the number of incoming
payment requests that the deployer wishes to process (since
more path stitcher processes allows a higher throughput, as -
suming CPU resources are available). We demonstrate in
Section 5 that our single-machine implementation is able
to support graphs with over 220 million edges. It is impor-
tant to note while our current implementation runs on a sin-
gle machine, we have designed Canal to be implementable
across a cluster of machines. Doing so would allow Canal
to be deployed on credit networks that are too large to ﬁt
in a single machine’s memory. Canal can be implemented
using graph parallel processing platforms [15, 21] that au-
tomatically distribute the graph state (our credit network )
across multiple machines. This would mean that the Canal
common datastore would be distributed across multiple ma-
chines and the universe creator processes would be using dis-
tributed graph processing algorithms. Existing graph parallel
processing platforms follow the bulk synchronous parallel
(BSP) model [37] and the challenge would be to minimize
the global communication between the processes and the
barrier synchronization cost associated with BSP algorithms.
Additionally, a distributed implementation would likely r e-
Renren Facebook Y ouTube Flickr Orkut
225 292 4,131 13,296 41,787
T able 2. Time in milliseconds to calculate a level-0 land-
mark universe with one universe creator process for various
datasets.
quire transactional updates to the common datastore to prop -
erly handle node failures. However, we leave a full imple-
mentation of a distributed version of Canal to future work.
5. Canal microbenchmarks
In this section, we explore a number of Canal microbench-
marks before exploring how Canal performs alongside Sybil
tolerance schemes in the following section. Here, we center
our evaluation around ﬁve questions:
• What is the memory overhead of landmark universes?
• How expensive are landmark universes to compute?
• What is the response time for payment requests?
• Do nodes receive all of their available credits over time?
• Do “hotspots” in the network form around landmarks?
5.1 Experimental setup
We evaluate Canal on ﬁve real-world social networks of
varying size, shown in Table 1. These networks are some
of the largest publicly available social network data sets, and
cover a wide number of nodes (33 K to 3.1 M) and edges
(1.4 M to 234 M).
We run our experiments on machines with dual 12-core
Intel Xeon X5650 2.66 GHz processors and 48 GB of RAM.
In many of the experiments, we vary two key parameters of
Canal: the universe level, and the size of the universe list
(i.e., the number of universes that are cached). Unless oth-
erwise stated, each experiment is the average of ﬁve random
trials.
For reference, the ﬁnal column in Table 1 shows the
average time to compute max ﬂow 8 between 50 random
pairs of nodes in these networks; this further emphasizes
the computational expense of conducting credit payments on
large networks. Even for networks with only a few million
links, the computation time can quickly become multiple
seconds.
5.2 Memory and compute time of landmark universes
Canal has a certain ﬁxed memory requirement to hold the
credit network and edge locks in memory. For example,
Orkut, the largest graph we consider, requires almost 20
GB of memory for storing the graph state. However, Canal
also requires memory for storing the landmark universes;
the amount depends on the universe level and size of the
universe list. Figure 7 plots the memory size for a single
8 We use the push-relabel algorithm [13] for computing max ﬂow .

 0
 0.5
 1
 1.5
 2
 2.5
 3
 3.5
 4
 0  2  4  6  8
Memory required (GB)
Universe level
Renren
Facebook
YouTube
Flickr
Orkut
Figure 7. Memory requirements of different universe lev-
els. The memory required increases linearly with the uni-
verse level.
landmark universe of different levels for each of the ﬁve
networks we consider (multiple landmark universes simply
require multiples of this size). We observe that the memory
size increases linearly with the landmark universe level, a nd
that the sizes allow multiple landmark universes to be kept
in memory on our test machine.
We now turn to examine how quickly landmark universes
can be created. Table 2 presents the time required to con-
struct a level-0 landmark universe with a single universe cre-
ator process; this follows the general trends of the max ﬂow
results in Table 1, but is sometimes higher due to Canal’s use
of per-link locks.
However, in Canal, we can take advantage of multiple
cores to conduct landmark universe creation in parallel. Fi g-
ures 8 and 9 present the speedup (relative to creating a land-
mark universe with a single universe creator process) and
absolute time, respectively, when creating different leve ls of
universes with 22 universe creator processes. We observe
that higher level universes enable a greater level of paral-
lelism, meaning Canal is more efﬁcient at creating higher
level landmark universes.
5.3 Latency of payment requests
Next, we examine the latency of processing payment re-
quests in Canal. For this experiment, we select 5,000 random
pairs of nodes in each network, and issue a payment request
between each pair of nodes for one credit. We then record the
 0
 2
 4
 6
 8
 10
 12
 14
 0  2  4  6  8  10  12
Relative speedup
Universe level
Renren
Facebook
Youtube
Flickr
Orkut
Figure 8. Landmark universe creation time speedup, rela-
tive to a single universe creator process, for Canal conﬁgur ed
with 22 universe creator processes.
 0.1
 1
 10
 100
 1000
 10000
 100000
 0  2  4  6  8  10  12
Universe creation time (s)
Universe level
Renren
Facebook
Youtube
Flickr
Orkut
Figure 9. Graph showing the absolute landmark universe
creation time as we increase the number of universe levels,
for Canal conﬁgured with 22 universe creator processes.
latency of the response from Canal. To see how the latency
scales with the payment size, we then repeat this experiment
by pushing ﬁve units of credit. We use 8 level-5 landmark
universes, and the credit network is initialized to have one
available credit per link.
Table 3 presents the results for the ﬁve networks. We
observe that both the median and 95th percentile latency
for pushing one credit is below 1 millisecond for all net-
works, and the latency for pushing ﬁve credits is below 2.5
milliseconds for all networks. This represents a substanti al
speedup, as existing systems often take multiple seconds to
determine if sufﬁcient available credit is present in the cr edit
network [24, 29].
5.4 Do nodes eventually receive all available credit?
Recall that, at any particular moment, Canal can only use
a subset of the paths with available credit between two
nodes (in particular, it can only use the paths via their com-
mon landmarks). However, if available credit along some of
these paths is used up, Canal will disregard the exhausted
links when constructing new landmark universes. Thus, even
though a node only has access to a subset of its available
credit at any one time, it will eventually receive more of its
credit as new landmark universes are created. We now ex-
plore how long it takes for a node to access all of its available
credit.
To do so, we pick 50 random pairs of nodes with degree
greater than 10 (so that there is signiﬁcant available credi t
between them) and the credit network is initialized to have
1 credit 5 credits
Network Median 95th P . Median 95th P .
Renren 0.04 0.09 0.40 0.64
Facebook 0.04 0.13 0.52 0.74
Y ouTube 0.14 0.59 1.3 2.3
Flickr 0.17 0.51 1.3 2.0
Orkut 0.34 0.83 0.89 1.9
T able 3. Median and 95th percentile time in milliseconds
taken by Canal to respond to a payment requests pushing a
one unit and ﬁve units of credit.

 0
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 2  4  6  8  10
Cumulative fraction of actual
max flow available for payments
Number of cycles
Renren
Facebook
YouTube
Flickr
Orkut
Figure 10. Cumulative fraction of actual max ﬂow that
is available for payments in Canal, for increasing cycles
of landmark universe creation. We observe that nodes can
quickly access all of their available credit.
one available credit per link. We then conduct a number of
cycles, where each cycle consists of constructing a new set
of 8 level-5 landmark universes and then making the largest
payment possible between each pair of nodes (meaning we
use up all of the available credit between the two nodes).
Over time, we expect that the total payments will approach
the actual max ﬂow in the credit network between each pair
of nodes.
Figure 10 presents the results of this experiment, showing
the cumulative fraction of the actual max ﬂow in the credit
network that is used for payments. As expected, we see
that the total payments asymptotically approach the actual
max ﬂow. More importantly, we observe that it does so very
quickly: For example, node pairs in each dataset can achieve
between 80% and 95% of their actual max ﬂow in just 4
cycles. This indicates that even though Canal only has access
to a subset of paths at any one time, nodes do eventually
receive all of their available credit, even over short time
windows.
5.5 Do landmarks lead to hotspots?
Our ﬁnal microbenchmark concerns whether or not land-
marks in Canal end up becoming “hotspots.” To explore this
effect, we again select 5,000 random pairs of nodes and have
each pair of nodes pay one credit between each other. We
 1
 10
 100
 1000
 0  20  40  60  80  100
Number of times link used
Percentile of links
Renren
Facebook
Youtube
Flickr
Orkut
Figure 11. Distribution of the number of times links are
used when processing 5,000 random credit payments. For
all networks, the 99th percentile links are used fewer than
14 times.
Category Nodes Links
Clothes 1.3 M 5.5 M
Home 1.3 M 4.5 M
Collectables 419 K 1.2 M
Electronics 600 K 1.5 M
Computing 626 K 1.7 M
T able 4. Size statistics of the different categories of risk net-
works used in evaluating Canal implementation of Bazaar.
then count the total number of times each link in the network
was used in transferring a credit. If hotspots form, we would
expect to see a number of links used many times. For this
experiment, we conﬁgure Canal to have 8 level-5 landmark
universes.
The results of this experiment are shown in Figure 11. We
plot the number of times a link is used versus percentile of
links, and ﬁnd that almost all links are used only once, and
very few links are used many times. For example, the 90th
percentile link is used no more than twice in all networks,
and the 99th percentile link is used no more than 14 times.
6. Applying Canal to Sybil tolerance systems
The second half of our evaluation considers the impact
that Canal would have on previously proposed Sybil toler-
ance schemes. In particular, we integrate Canal into both
Bazaar [29] and Ostra [24]. We then recreate the original
evaluation of these schemes and measure the speedup that
these schemes observe when running with Canal, as well
as the resulting impact on accuracy (in terms of false neg-
atives).
6.1 Bazaar
Recall that Bazaar is designed to strengthen user reputatio ns
in online marketplaces like eBay. We replace the storage
of the credit network (called the risk network in Bazaar)
and max ﬂow calculation components with Canal, and re-
perform the same evaluation as in the original paper. Bazaar
was originally evaluated using a 90-day trace of ﬁve of the
largest categories on the UK eBay site, and we use the same
dataset to evaluate accuracy and speed up of our imple-
mentation compared to the original one. The ﬁve categories
range in size from 419 K users to 1.3 M users, and from 1.2
M links to 5.5 M links as shown in Table 4.
Table 5 presents the latency for credit network payment
transactions for the original implementation of Bazaar and
for Bazaar augmented with Canal. We make a number of
interesting observations. First, we observe that the media n
latency for transactions is below 200 microseconds for all
categories, and the 95th percentile latency is below 4 mil-
liseconds. This low latency enables Bazaar to be used in an
online fashion. Second, when compared to the latency of the
original Bazaar implementation, we observe speedups of be-

Orig. Canal Relative
Category Avg. Med 95th P . Speedup
Clothes 6,290 0.2 3.4 2,329 ×
Home 5,340 0.1 3.4 785 ×
Collectables 1,180 0.08 2.0 1,404 ×
Electronics 1,660 0.09 2.70 1,522 ×
Computing 1,410 0.1 2.56 1,084 ×
T able 5. Time in milliseconds required to process credit
network transactions in Bazaar with Canal with 30 level-2
landmark universes. Also included is the original processi ng
time from the Bazaar paper and the relative speedup. We
observe speedups between 785-fold and 2,329-fold.
tween 785-fold and 2,329-fold. This underscores the impact
of Canal on Sybil tolerance systems like Bazaar.
However, this reduction in latency comes at the cost of
accuracy. Since Canal can only look for credit on a subset of
paths, it may be unable to ﬁnd sufﬁcient available credit be-
tween a buyer–seller pair, thereby wrongly ﬂagging a trans-
action as fraudulent. To determine how often this occurs, we
calculate the fraction of the transactions for which the ori gi-
nal Bazaar implementation found sufﬁcient available credi t,
but Canal was unable to.
The results of this experiment are presented in Table 6,
for a conﬁguration with 30 level-3 landmark universes. We
observe that Canal provides between 94% and 98% accu-
racy in all categories, meaning that at least 94% of the time,
Canal is able to ﬁnd sufﬁcient available credit when the orig -
inal Bazaar implementation did as well. We further explore
the sensitivity of Canal’s accuracy to conﬁguration param-
eters in Figure 12, where we vary the number of landmark
universes and the level of each universe for the Home cat-
egory. We observe that accuracy over 95% can be achieved
with 20 level-3 landmark universes, suggesting that even a
modest number of landmark universes is likely to be sufﬁ-
cient to deploy Canal in practice.
6.2 Ostra
Next, we explore integrating Canal into Ostra [24], a system
designed to prevent unwanted communication. Ostra was
Category Accuracy
Clothes 94.2%
Home 97.0%
Collectables 97.6%
Electronics 95.4%
Computing 95.9%
T able 6. Accuracy of Bazaar implementation using Canal
in each category, relative to the original Bazaar implement a-
tion. Canal provides high accuracy for Bazaar, implying tha t
users are rarely impacted by the approximate available credit
that Canal ﬁnds.
 0
 20
 40
 60
 80
 100
 5  10  15  20  25  30
Accuracy (%)
Number of landmark universes
Level = 0
Level = 1
Level = 2
Level = 3
Figure 12. Accuracy of Bazaar with Canal for the Home
category, for varying numbers of landmark universes and
universe levels. Over 95% accuracy can be achieved with
20 level-3 landmark universes.
originally evaluated on a social network derived from largest
strongly connected component of Y ouTube network [23];
this network consists of 446 K nodes and 3.4 M links [24].
A synthetic communication trace was generated using statis-
tics of a real email trace. We re-run the original Ostra ex-
periments using the same input data, and evaluate accuracy
and speed up of our implementation compared to the original
one. We use a conﬁguration of Ostra with 128 randomly se-
lected nodes as spammers in the system (each of whom tries
to send 500 spam messages), with a credit limit of 3 on every
link, and with a 1% false email classiﬁcation probability by
good users.
We ﬁrst examine the speedup that is observed with Canal
deployed to Ostra. Presented in Table 7, the results show
that if Ostra were to use Canal, the average time taken
to ﬁnd a path with available credit would drop from 35.4
milliseconds to 190 microseconds (a relative speedup of
over 186 times). We observe a lower speedup when Canal
is applied to Ostra, compared to Bazaar, for two reasons:
First, Ostra requires only a single path for every transacti on,
while Bazaar generally requires the use of multiple paths,
and second, the attacker strength is lower for Ostra (just 12 8
attackers each attempting to send 500 messages).
We now examine the accuracy that Canal provides when
deployed with Ostra. Similar to the evaluation with Bazaar,
we calculate the fraction of transactions for which the orig -
inal version of Ostra was able to ﬁnd a path with available
credit, but Canal is not. The results of this experiment for
different conﬁgurations of the number of landmark universe s
and the universe level is presented in Figure 13. We see that
Original Canal Relative
Avg. Median 95th Percentile Speedup
35.4 0.05 1.4 186 ×
T able 7. Time in milliseconds required to process a credit
network transaction in Ostra in Canal with 30 level-3 land-
mark universes. Also included is the original processing time
from the Ostra paper and the relative speedup.

0
20
40
60
80
100
 5  10  15  20  25  30
Accuracy (%)
Number of landmark universes
Level = 0
Level = 1
Level = 2
Level = 3
Level = 4
Level = 5
Figure 13. Accuracy of the Ostra implementation using
Canal, for varying numbers of landmark universes and uni-
verse levels. Over 99% accuracy can be achieved once 5
landmark universes are used.
Canal provides over 99% accuracy once at least ﬁve land-
mark universes are used.
6.3 Summary
Overall, the results in this section demonstrate that Canal can
be easily integrated into existing Sybil tolerance schemes .
Moreover, the results show that implementations of both
Ostra and Bazaar with Canal achieve signiﬁcant speedup
while providing an approximation that only rarely impacts
the credit available to users. Given the previous high com-
putation cost of these systems, Canal opens the door for
schemes like Ostra, Bazaar, and SumUp to be deployed
in real systems, with on-demand computations done over
highly-dynamic credit networks.
7. Conclusion
We have presented Canal, a system that can efﬁciently and
accurately transfer credit payments over large credit net-
works. Canal is designed to complement existing Sybil tol-
erance schemes such as Ostra [24], SumUp [35], Trust-
Davis [9], and Bazaar [29]. We argued that these schemes
are all based on computing payments over credit networks,
a computation that requires computing max-ﬂow over a
graph, that leads to signiﬁcant computational complexity
and makes them impractical to deploy on real-world sites.
With Canal, these schemes see a dramatic speedup, making
them practical for real-world use.
An evaluation demonstrated that Canal’s approximation
rarely impacts honest users and does not allow malicious
users to obtain any additional credit. Furthermore, Canal i s
able to perform payment calculations in under a few mil-
lisecond on graphs with hundreds of millions of links, a mas-
sive speedup when compared to existing approaches. Finally,
we demonstrated that, were existing Sybil tolerance schemes
to use Canal, the time necessary to process credit payments
would be reduced by multiple orders of magnitude while
achieving over 94% accuracy.
Acknowledgements
We thank the anonymous reviewers, Allen Clement, Peter
Druschel, and our shepherd, Emin G¨ un Sirer, for their help-
ful comments. This research was supported in part by NSF
grant IIS-0964465, a Google Research A ward, and an Ama-
zon Web Services in Education Grant.
References
[1] M. Abadi, M. Burrows, M. Manasse, and T. Wobber. Mod-
erately hard, memory-bound functions. In ACM Transactions
on Internet Technology, volume 5, pages 299–314, 2005.
[2] N. Borisov. Computational puzzles as Sybil defenses. In
Proceedings of the 6th IEEE International Conference on
Peer-to-Peer Computing (IEEE P2P’06), 2006.
[3] M. Castro, P . Druschel, A. Ganesh, A. Rowstron, and D. S.
Wallach. Secure routing for structured peer-to-peer overl ay
networks. In SIGOPS Operating Systems Review , volume 36,
pages 299–314, 2002.
[4] H. Chun, H. Kwak, Y .-H. Eom, Y .-Y . Ahn, S. Moon, and
H. Jeong. Comparison of online social relations in volume vs
interaction: A case study of cyworld. In Proceedings of the 8th
ACM/USENIX Internet Measurement Conference (IMC’08) ,
2008.
[5] P . Dandekar, A. Goel, R. Govindan, and I. Post. Liquidity in
credit networks: A little trust goes a long way. In Proceed-
ings of the 12th ACM Conference on Electronic Commerce
(EC’11), 2011.
[6] G. Danezis and P . Mittal. SybilInfer: Detecting Sybil no des
using social networks. In Proceedings of the 16th Network and
Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS’09) , 2009.
[7] A. Das Sarma, S. Gollapudi, M. Najork, and R. Panigrahy. A
sketch-based distance oracle for web-scale graphs. In Pro-
ceedings of the 3rd ACM International Conference of W eb
Search and Data Mining (WSDM’10) , 2010.
[8] E. A. Dinic. An algorithm for the solution of the max-ﬂow
problem with the polynomial estimation. Doklady Akademii
Nauk SSSR, 194(4), 1970.
[9] D. do B. DeFigueiredo and E. T. Barr. Trustdavis: A non-
exploitable online reputation system. In Proceedings of the
7th IEEE International Conference on E-Commerce Technol-
ogy (IEEE E-Commerce), 2005.
[10] J. Douceur. The Sybil Attack. In Proceedings of the 1st
International W orkshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems (IPTPS’02),
2002.
[11] L. R. Ford and D. R. Fulkerson. Maximal ﬂow through a
network. In Canadian Journal of Mathematics , volume 8,
pages 399–404.
[12] A. Ghosh, M. Mahdian, D. M. Reeves, D. M. Pennock, and
R. Fugger. Mechanism design on trust networks. In Proceed-
ings of the 3rd International Conference on Internet and Net -
work Economics (WINE’07) , 2007.
[13] A. V . Goldberg and R. E. Tarjan. A new approach to the
maximum ﬂow problem. In Proceedings of the 18th annual
ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC’86) , 1986.
[14] R. E. Gomory and T. Hu. Multi-terminal network ﬂows. In
Journal of the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathemati cs
(SIAM), volume 9, pages 551–570, 1961.
[15] D. Gregor and A. Lumsdaine. The parallel BGL: A generic
library for distributed graph computations. In Proceedings of

the Parallel Object-Oriented Scientiﬁc Computing (POOSC) ,
2005.
[16] A. Gubichev, S. Bedathur, S. Seufert, and G. Weikum. Fas t
and accurate estimation of shortest paths in large graphs. I n
Proceedings of the 19th ACM international conference on
Information and knowledge management (CIKM’10) , 2010.
[17] T. Hartmann and D. Wagner. Fully-dynamic cut tree const ruc-
tion. Technical Report 2011.25, Karlsruhe Institute of Tec h-
nology, 2011.
[18] J. Jiang, C. Wilson, X. Wang, P . Huang, W. Sha, Y . Dai, and
B. Y . Zhao. Understanding latent interactions in online soc ial
networks. In Proceedings of the 10th ACM/USENIX Internet
Measurement Conference (IMC’10) , 2010.
[19] J. Leskovec, K. Lang, and M. Mahoney. Empirical compari -
son of algorithms for network community detection. In Pro-
ceedings of the 19th International W orld Wide W eb Confer-
ence (WWW’10) , 2010.
[20] C. Lesniewski-Laas and M. F. Kaashoek. Wh¯ anau: A Sybil -
proof distributed hash table. In Proceedings of the 7th Sym-
posium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation
(NSDI’10), 2010.
[21] G. Malewicz, M. H. Austern, A. J. Bik, J. C. Dehnert, I. Ho rn,
N. Leiser, and G. Czajkowski. Pregel: A system for large-
scale graph processing. In Proceedings of the International
Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD’10) , 2010.
[22] A. Mislove, H. S. Koppula, K. P . Gummadi, P . Druschel, an d
B. Bhattacharjee. Growth of the Flickr social network. In
Proceedings of the 1st ACM SIGCOMM W orkshop on Social
Networks (WOSN’08), 2008.
[23] A. Mislove, M. Marcon, K. P . Gummadi, P . Druschel, and
B. Bhattacharjee. Measurement and analysis of online socia l
networks. In Proceedings of the 7th ACM/USENIX Internet
Measurement Conference (IMC’07) , 2007.
[24] A. Mislove, A. Post, K. P . Gummadi, and P . Druschel. Ostr a:
Leveraging trust to thwart unwanted communication. In Pro-
ceedings of the 5th Symposium on Networked Systems Design
and Implementation (NSDI’08) , 2008.
[25] M. Mitzenmacher and E. Upfal. Probability and Computing .
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, 2005.
[26] A. Mohaisen, A. Y un, and Y . Kim. Measuring the mixing time
of social graphs. In Proceedings of the 10th ACM/USENIX
Internet Measurement Conference (IMC’10) , 2010.
[27] M. Mondal, B. Viswanath, A. Clement, P . Druschel, K. P .
Gummadi, A. Mislove, and A. Post. Limiting large-scale
crawls of social networking sites. In Proceedings of the
Annual Conference of the ACM Special Interest Group on
Data Communication (SIGCOMM’11, poster session) , 2011.
[28] M. Motoyama, D. McCoy, K. Levchenko, S. Savage, and
G. M. V oelker. Dirty jobs: The role of freelance labor in web
service abuse. In Proceedings of the 20th USENIX conference
on Security (SEC’11) , 2011.
[29] A. Post, V . Shah, and A. Mislove. Bazaar: Strengthening user
reputations in online marketplaces. In Proceedings of the 8th
Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementa-
tion (NSDI’11) , 2011.
[30] D. Quercia and S. Hailes. Sybil attacks against mobile
users: Friends and foes to the rescue. In Proceedings of
the 29th Conference on Information Communications (INFO-
COM’10), 2010.
[31] S. Seuken and D. C. Parkes. On the Sybil-proofness of ac-
counting mechanisms. In Proceedings of the 6 th W orkshop on
the Economics of Networks, Systems and Computation (NetE-
con’11), 2011.
[32] T. Stein, E. Chen, and K. Mangla. Facebook immune sys-
tem. In Proceedings of the 4th W orkshop on Social Network
Systems (SNS’11) , 2011.
[33] D. Streitfeld. Ferreting out fake reviews online.
http://nytimes.com/2011/08/20/technology/
finding-fake-reviews-online.html.
[34] N. Tran, J. Li, L. Subramanian, and S. S. Chow. Optimal
Sybil-resilient node admission control. In Proceedings of
the 30th Conference on Information Communications (INFO-
COM’11), 2011.
[35] N. Tran, B. Min, J. Li, and L. Subramanian. Sybil-resili ent
online content voting. In Proceedings of the 6th Symposium on
Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI’09) ,
2009.
[36] P . Tsuchiya. The landmark hierarchy: A new hierarchy fo r
routing in very large networks. In Proceedings of the Annual
Conference of the ACM Special Interest Group on Data Com-
munication (SIGCOMM’88) , 1988.
[37] L. G. V aliant. A bridging model for parallel computatio n.
Communications of the ACM , 1990.
[38] B. Viswanath, A. Mislove, M. Cha, and K. P . Gummadi. On
the evolution of user interaction in Facebook. In Proceedings
of the 2nd ACM SIGCOMM W orkshop on Social Networks
(WOSN’09), 2009.
[39] B. Viswanath, M. Mondal, A. Clement, P . Druschel, K. P .
Gummadi, A. Mislove, and A. Post. Exploring the design
space of social network-based Sybil defense. In Proceedings
of the 4th International Conference on Communication Sys-
tems and Network (COMSNETS’12) , 2012.
[40] B. Viswanath, A. Post, K. P . Gummadi, and A. Mislove. An
analysis of social network-based Sybil defenses. In Proceed-
ings of the Annual Conference of the ACM Special Interest
Group on Data Communication (SIGCOMM’10) , 2010.
[41] K. Walsh and E. G. Sirer. Experience with a distributed o bject
reputation system for peer-to-peer ﬁlesharing. In Proceedings
of the 3rd Symposium on Networked Systems Design and
Implementation (NSDI’06) , 2006.
[42] Z. Yang, C. Wilson, X. Wang, T. Gao, B. Y . Zhao, and Y . Dai.
Uncovering social network Sybils in the wild. In Proceedings
of the 11th ACM/USENIX Internet Measurement Conference
(IMC’11), 2011.
[43] H. Y u. Sybil defenses via social networks: A tutorial an d
survey. SIGACT News, 42(3), 2011.
[44] H. Y u, P . B. Gibbons, M. Kaminsky, and F. Xiao. SybilLimit:
A near-optimal social network defense against Sybil attack s.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Security and Pri-
vacy (IEEE S&P’08) , 2008.
[45] H. Y u, M. Kaminsky, P . B. Gibbons, and A. Flaxman. Sybil-
Guard: Defending against Sybil attacks via social networks. In
Proceedings of the Annual Conference of the ACM Special In-
terest Group on Data Communication (SIGCOMM’06) , 2006.
[46] C. M. Zhang and V . Paxson. Detecting and analyzing au-
tomated activity on twitter. In Proceedings of the 12th In-
ternational Conference on Passive and Active Measurement
(PAM’11), 2011.