An Untold Story of Middleboxes in Cellular Networks
Z
haoguang Wang1, Zhiyun Qian1, Qiang Xu1, Z. Morley Mao1, Ming Zhang2
1University of Michigan 2Microsoft Research
1{zgw, zhiyunq, qiangxu, zmao}@umich.edu 2mzh@microsoft.com
ABSTRACT
The use of cellular data networks is increasingly popular as net-
work coverage becomes more ubiquitous and many diverse user-
contributed mobile applications become available. The growing
cellular trafﬁc demand means that cellular network carriers are fac-
ing greater challenges to provide users with good network perfor-
mance and energy efﬁciency, while protecting networks from po-
tential attacks. To better utilize their limited network resources
while securing the network and protecting client devices the car-
riers have already deployed various network policies that inﬂuence
trafﬁc behavior. Today, these policies are mostly opaque, though
they directly impact application designs and may even introduce
network vulnerabilities.
We present NetPiculet, the ﬁrst tool that unveils carriers’ NA T
and ﬁrewall policies by conducting intelligent measurement. By
running NetPiculet on the major U.S. cellular providers as well as
deploying it as a smartphone application in the wild covering more
than 100 cellular ISPs, we identiﬁed the key NA T and ﬁrewall poli-
cies which have direct implications on performance, energy, and se-
curity. For example, NA T boxes and ﬁrewalls set timeouts for idle
TCP connections, which sometimes cause signiﬁcant energy waste
on mobile devices. Although most carriers today deploy sophisti-
cated ﬁrewalls, they are still vulnerable to various attacks such as
battery draining and denial of service. These ﬁndings can inform
developers in optimizing the interaction between mobile applica-
tions and cellular networks and also guide carriers in improving
their network conﬁgurations.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
C.2.3 [ Computer-Communication Networks ]: Network Opera-
tions
General T erms
Measurement, performance, security
Keywords
NA T, ﬁrewall, middlebox, TCP performance, cellular data network
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are
not made or distributed for proﬁt or commercial advantage and that copies
bear this notice and the full citation on the ﬁrst page. To copy otherwise, to
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speciﬁc
permission and/or a fee.
SIGCOMM’11, August 15–19, 2011, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Copyright 2011 ACM 978-1-4503-0797-0/11/08 ...$10.00.
1. INTRODUCTION
Data cellular networks have undergone tremendous growth in re-
cent years due to the increasing popularity of mobile devices such
as smartphones, tablets, and eBook readers. Their ever-growing
coverage and capacity have enabled a wave of ﬂashy mobile appli-
cations ranging from gaming and video to social networking. In
contrast to their Internet counterparts, cellular networks bear more
constraints due to the scarcity of physical resources in network in-
frastructure and mobile devices as well as the complexity in manag-
ing these resources. Cellular carriers usually deploy various types
of middleboxes to make efﬁcient use of these precious resources
and protect them from potential attacks. For instance, many carri-
ers use NA T (Network Address Translation) to provide data service
to millions of users over a limited public IP address space. They
also deploy ﬁrewalls to isolate mobile users from rampant mali-
cious activities (e.g., worms and DoS attacks) on the Internet.
Today, cellular network middleboxes and mobile applications are
independently managed by two groups of entities: cellular opera-
tors ( e.g., A T&T, T-Mobile) and application developers. The lat-
ter group is often unaware of the middlebox policies enforced by
operators while the former has limited knowledge about the ap-
plication behavior and requirements. Such knowledge mismatch
could potentially impair application performance, aggravate energy
consumption, or even introduce security vulnerabilities. One illus-
trative example is that a carrier sets an aggressive timeout value
to quickly recycle the resources held by inactive TCP connections
in the ﬁrewall, unexpectedly causing frequent disruptions to long-
lived and occasionally idle connections maintained by applications
such as push-based email and instant messaging.
Prior work has studied middleboxes on the Internet by character-
izing NA T properties such as mapping type and ﬁltering rule [22,
15, 20, 18, 21], and proposed various schemes to perform NA T
traversal. It is unclear whether the NA T box behavior remains the
same or the NA T traversal schemes are still applicable in cellu-
lar networks. Other work quantiﬁed the end-to-end performance
degradation (e.g., lower throughput or larger transaction delay) in-
duced by middleboxes [13]. In addition to performance, energy
consumption is another critical perspective in the cellular network
context. However, no previous studies have investigated how mid-
dleboxes affect energy consumption on mobile devices. Several re-
search efforts revealed that cellular infrastructure and mobile hand-
sets are vulnerable to various types of DoS attacks [34, 36, 25].
However, they did not investigate the feasibility of launching these
attacks when the targets are behind middleboxes.
In this study, we design and implement NetPiculet, a measure-
ment tool for accurately and efﬁciently identifying middlebox poli-
cies in cellular networks. We focus on ﬁrewalls and NA T boxes,
which are widely deployed by many cellular carriers. Although a
374

carrier may employ many policies, we focus on those that direc tly
impact mobile users and their applications in terms of important
properties including connectivity, performance, energy consump-
tion, and security. Informed by our ﬁndings, we propose new tech-
niques and modiﬁcations to applications to better cope with exist-
ing policies. We also offer concrete suggestions on policy changes
for carriers to improve the experience and protection of their mo-
bile users as well as robustness of their network infrastructure in
response to attacks.
We released NetPiculet on Android Market in January 2011 and
attracted 393 unique mobile users within merely two weeks. Lever-
aging the data from these users, we report our ﬁndings from 107
cellular carriers around the world. In particular, we studied the
policies of two large nation-wide U.S. carriers in more depth and
corroborated our ﬁndings carefully with controlled experiments.
Due to security and privacy concerns, we anonymize their names
and label them as Carrier A and Carrier B. We summarize our key
ﬁndings as follows:
• In some cellular networks, a single mobile device can en-
counter more than one type of NA T, likely due to load bal-
ancing. We also discovered some NA T mappings increment
external port number with time which was not documented
in any prior NA T study. Accordingly, we develop new NA T
traversal techniques to handle both cases.
• Four cellular networks are found to allow IP spooﬁng, which
provides attack opportunities by punching holes on NA Ts
and ﬁrewalls “on behalf of” a victim from inside the net-
works, and thus directly exposing the victim to further at-
tacks from the Internet.
• Eleven carriers are found to impose a quite aggressive time-
out value of less than 10 minutes for idle TCP connections,
potentially frequently disrupting long-lived connections main-
tained by applications such as push-based email. The result-
ing extra radio activities on a mobile device could use more
than 10% of battery per day compared to those under a more
conservative timeout value (e.g., 30 minutes).
• One of the largest U.S. carriers is found to conﬁgure ﬁre-
walls to buffer out-of-order TCP packets for a long time,
likely for the purpose of deep packet inspection. This un-
expectedly interferes with TCP Fast Retransmit and Forward
RTO-Recovery, severely degrading TCP performance trig-
gered merely by a single packet loss.
• At least one ﬁrewall of a major cellular ISP liberally accepts
TCP packets within a very large window of sequence num-
bers, greatly facilitating the traditional blind data injection at-
tacks, endangering connections that transfer relatively large
amount of data ( e.g., streaming applications).
• Some cellular network ﬁrewalls do not immediately remove
the TCP connection state after a connection is closed, allow-
ing attackers to extend his attack on a victim even after the
victim has closed the connection to a malicious server. This
also dramatically lengthens the NA T traversal time to a few
minutes, given that the same TCP ﬁve tuple cannot be reused
quickly.
2. OVERVIEW
Today’s cellular data networks are susceptible to DoS attacks [34,
36, 25] and face the problem of IPv4 address depletion, which
prompts carriers to deploy NA Ts and ﬁrewalls at network bound-
aries to protect cellular infrastructure and mobile users from unso-
licited trafﬁc from the Internet and to effectively share public IP
Piculet Server
Middle box
Middle box
Internet
Cellular
Core
Network
Piculet Client
Figure 1: Physical view of the NetPiculet system
Count Technology Continent IP address
by # of UMTS EVDO EU AS NA SA AU AF Public Private Both1
Carriers 97 10 46 26 20 11 2 2 25 72 10
Users 246 148 113 35 231 11 2 2 73 316 52
1 S ome carriers assign both public and private IP addresses
2 A single user is observed to have public IP or private IP at different times
Table 2: Properties of the studied carriers
addresses. However, they also directly impact end-to-end perfor-
mance, connectivity, energy consumption, and security. Popular
mobile P2P applications, e.g., Fring [5] and Tango [6] for video
chatting, use NA T traversal to establish direct connections between
peers behind NA T. Correctly determining the NA T mapping type
and ﬁltering policy is crucial for the success of NA T traversal. Fire-
walls attempt to block unwanted trafﬁc by detecting anomalous
trafﬁc patterns. Such behavior, however, may tamper with TCP’s
control and feedback mechanism, resulting in longer transaction
delay and higher energy consumption. Furthermore, ﬁrewalls in
cellular networks must accommodate a diverse and large set of mo-
bile devices and applications. Such ﬂexibility may come at the
expense of security, leaving opportunities for mindful attackers.
Our goal is to develop a tool that can help application design-
ers gain insight into NA T and ﬁrewall policies in cellular networks
and make targeted improvements to applications. It can also help
carriers ﬁne-tune their middlebox policies to attain better user ex-
perience and security. A few technical challenges remain. First,
the middlebox policies in a cellular network can be quite complex
and are usually proprietary. We need to design a suite of end-to-
end probes to accurately infer the policies and quantify their im-
pact. Second, the middleboxes usually block unsolicited trafﬁc
from the Internet, making purely server-based probing infeasible.
We need to carefully coordinate probing between a mobile client
and an Internet server to infer these policies, while ensuring the
policies inferred are not due to middleboxes on the Internet. Third,
cellular carriers are diverse, often spanning a large geographic area
and offering multiple types of subscription plan. We need to make
our tool both efﬁcient and user-friendly to attract different types of
users from many carriers and locations.
We have built the NetPiculet tool that comprises of client soft-
ware running on mobile devices inside cellular networks and a ded-
icated server on the Internet as shown in Figure 1. The server’s
upstream provider and border router are veriﬁed to not impose any
restrictive policies. The client software is an Android application
that is publicly available on the Android Market. In order to save
both user time and device battery, except for the TCP connection
timeout measurement running as a background service, the other
tests are parallelized and ﬁnish within 10 seconds. By informing
users about their network polices, e.g., the feasibility of running
P2P applications in their networks, the client software is able to
attract users around the world. Both the server and client are im-
plemented in C and Java with approximately 3000 LoC in total.
375

Category Policy Main ﬁndings and implications
NA T
NA T Mapping type (§3.1.1) - A new NA T mapping was identiﬁed that increases external port number with time (§3.2.1)
- One device may experience more than one NA T mapping in the same cellular network (§3.2.1)
- New NA T traversal techniques are proposed to handle the challenges imposed by the above two ﬁndings (§3.3)
Endpoint ﬁltering (§3.1.2)
TCP state tracking (§3.1.2)
Filtering response (§3.1.2)
Packet mangling (§3.1.2)
Firewall
IP spooﬁng (§4.1.1) - 4 large carriers allow IP spooﬁng, which weakens the network security (§4.2.1)
- 11 carriers timeout idle connections aggressively, which wastes device energy (§4.3.1)
- One large U.S. carrier buffers out-of-order packets, which negatively affects TCP performance (§4.3.2)
- One large U.S. carrier sets a large TCP sequence window, which facilitates TCP RST attack (§4.3.3)
- Some carriers do not clear TCP state immediately after connection close, which invites battery draining attack (§4.3.4)
Stateful ﬁrewall (§4.1.2)
TCP connection timeout (§4.1.3)
Out-of-order packet buffering (§4.1.4)
Table 1: N etPiculet ’s key functionality, ﬁndings, and implications.
Table 1 summarizes the policies inferred byNetPiculet and where
they are described. Because the TCP state diagram inference is
time-consuming, we measure the full TCP state diagram only in
local experiments and replace it with a simpler TCP connection
timeout measurement in the released tool. Our results are based on
two weeks of data collected in January 2011 from about 400 users
in 107 carriers. Table 2 breaks down the carriers and users by tech-
nology, continent, and IP type. Note that for certain type of tests
we may observe smaller number of data points as some tests such
as IP spooﬁng require root privilege which is not available on ev-
ery phone. Also, NA T tests only consider the carriers that assign
private IP addresses. Moreover, we conducted extensive local ex-
periments to validate the ﬁndings and quantify their impact for two
major U.S. carriers: Carrier A and Carrier B.
Although the policies in Table 1 are associated with either NA T
or ﬁrewall, we emphasize that this is simply a classiﬁcation and
may have little to do with the actual implementation. A carrier
usually has a variety of options in implementing these policies. For
instance, a single network device could have both the NA T and ﬁre-
wall functionalities. Our end-to-end probes treat NA T and ﬁrewall
as black boxes, thus only inferring the existence of the policies but
not their inner workings.
3. NAT POLICIES
In this section, we study the feasibility of NA T traversal in cel-
lular networks. We focus on TCP NA T traversal because it is much
more challenging than UDP NA T traversal. Our ﬁndings, however,
can be easily applied to UDP NA T traversal as well. We ﬁrst pro-
vide some background knowledge on several key NA T properties
related to NA T traversal and describe the methodology for measur-
ing these properties. We then present the results from NetPiculet
clients executed by 316 mobile users in 72 carriers with NA T boxes
deployed. We identify a new NA T mapping that increments exter-
nal port number with time. We also ﬁnd that a single mobile device
may encounter more than one NA T mapping. Since techniques for
traversing NA T with such previously unknown behavior were not
studied, we design and implement a light-weight scheme to traverse
the new NA T mapping with high success rate.
3.1 Methodology
At the high level, existing TCP NA T traversal approaches ( e.g.,
STUNT#1 [22], STUNT#2 [18], NA TBlaster [15], and P2PNA T [20])
follow a similar idea. Two clients behind NA T ﬁrst learn each
other’s external IP address through an out-of-band channel, e.g., a
third party server. Then both clients initiate a TCP connection to
each other by sending a SYN packet, which creates a mapping on
their own NA Ts. The destination port, which the SYN packet was
sent to, is determined from port prediction based on the NA T map-
ping. The two connections are ﬁnally reconciled into one if the
traversal succeeds. The key difference among various approaches
is the distinct sequence of packets exchanged between two clients
during the reconciliation process. Besides the NA T mapping, these
approaches also heavily depend on several other NA T properties,
which will be described below.
3.1.1 Identifying NAT Mapping
A NA T box maps a TCP connection to an external endpoint (IP
address and port) based on the TCP ﬁve tuple. Based on previous
work [21], the NA T box can map connections from the same local
endpoint in the following ways:
• Independent: external endpoint remains the same for all con-
nections.
• Address and Portδ : external endpoint changes when destina-
tion endpoint changes.
• Connectionδ : external endpoint changes for each new con-
nection.
The subscript δ indicates how the external port number changes
relative to its previous value. It can be either a ﬁxed value n (usually
n = 1) or a random value R.
It is important for both clients to know each other’s mapping type
so that they can predict the external endpoint a new connection will
use based on that of a previous connection. This allows each client
to send a SYN packet to the appropriate external endpoint of the
other client and create necessary connection mapping state on its
own NA T.
To discover the mapping type of a NA T box, we follow the ap-
proach in previous work [21] to create 12 back-to-back connec-
tions to 4 destinations (3 connections to each destination) while
using the same local port. Different from prior approaches, we add
another 12 connections to the same destination but with different
local ports. As explained in §3.2.1, this helps us discover a new
time-dependent NA T mapping type.
3.1.2 Identifying Other NAT Properties
Endpoint ﬁltering: A NA T box forwards an incoming packet to
a destination based on its existing connection mapping state. A
packet will be ﬁltered if its destination address and port are not
found in the maintained mapping state. Even if they do exist on
the NA T, the packet can still be ﬁltered based on its source address
and/or port. This is referred to as the endpoint ﬁltering policy.
To measure endpoint ﬁltering policy, a NetPiculet client behind
NA T ﬁrst establishes a TCP connection to the NetPiculet server and
thus creates the corresponding mapping state on the NA T. Outside
the NA T, the NetPiculet server varies the source IP address and
port and sends back SYN packets to the external endpoint of the
connection established earlier. The client checks if it can receive
the SYN packets from the server to determine the endpoint ﬁltering
policy.
TCP state tracking: A NA T may also track TCP state and ﬁlter
certain sequence of TCP packets that are considered invalid. We
test the following two types of packet sequence that are critical for
existing TCP NA T traversal schemes (e.g., STUNT#2, NA TBlaster,
and P2PNA T):
376

NA T Mapping # carriers
Independent 30
Address and Port 1 15
ConnectionR 19
ConnectionT 5
Address and Port T & ConnectionT 3
Total 72
Table 3: NAT mapping results for 72 cellular networks that
d
eploy NAT boxes.
• SYN-out SYN-in tests if a NA T allows an incoming SYN
packet after an outgoing SYN.
• SYN-out SYN-ACK-out tests if a NA T allows a client to send
out a SYN-ACK packet after sending a SYN packet.
Filtering response: Recall that at the beginning of NA T traversal,
each client sends out a SYN packet to create a connection mapping
on its own NA T. However, when the SYN packet reaches the other
NA T, it could be dropped or trigger a TCP RST or ICMP packet.
The returning RST or ICMP packet may cause the newly-created
mapping to be removed from the NA T and thus disrupt the NA T
traversal process.
To test the ﬁltering response, the NetPiculet server sends SYN
packets to some random ports on the external IP address of a pre-
established TCP connection. If no response packet is received, it
means the NA T box drops the packet.
Packet mangling: A NA T may mangle TCP packets by modify-
ing sequence number, which is vital to STUN#1 and NA TBlaster.
To test if a NA T box implements this, the NetPiculet client sends
several SYN packets to the NetPiculet server with a predeﬁned se-
quence number. The server can check if the sequence numbers in
the received packets match the predeﬁned value.
3.2 NAT Characteristics
3.2.1 NAT Mapping Results
Table 3 shows the NA T mapping results of 72 cellular carriers
deploying NA T. A majority of them exhibit either Independent or
Address and Port1 mappings, which are quite easy to traverse. Sur-
prisingly, 19 of them (26.4%) fall into ConnectionR, which cannot
be handled by most existing NA T traversal schemes. This percent-
age number is signiﬁcantly higher than the 0.5% number for home
NA T boxes [21]. NA TBlaster [15] proposes to use the birthday
paradox to deal with ConnectionR. However, NA TBlaster requires
root access to the mobile device, which is usually not easily ob-
tained on mobile devices. The results suggest that NA T traversal is
much more challenging in cellular networks.
Time-dependent NAT mapping: There are 8 carriers that were
initially classiﬁed as ConnectionR or Address and Port1. However,
a closer examination revealed that the external ports of the 24 con-
nections created during the test are well correlated with time. To
further validate this observation, we conducted controlled exper-
iments in Carrier B’s network. We have a mobile client create
new connections to the NetPiculet server with a random interval
between 0 and 60 seconds. Each new connection uses the same
destination port but a different local port so that it will be assigned
a new external port by NA T. The experiment lasts half an hour.
Figure 2 plots the start time and external port number of each con-
nection. It is clear that the external port number increases linearly
with time, and it restarts from a small number after reaching the
maximum value.
In Table 3, we use ConnectionT and Address and Port T to de-
note this new type of mapping. The former means the external port
increments with time for each new connection. The latter means
 0
 10000
 20000
 30000
 40000
 50000
 60000
 70000
 0  200  400  600  800  1000  1200  1400  1600  1800
Port number
Time (sec)
Figure 2: External port number linearly increases over time f or
new connections in Carrier B’s network. (Each square denotes
a new connection.)
the external port increments with time if a new connection has a
different destination endpoint from the previous connection. Un-
aware of this new mapping type, existing NA T traversal schemes
can easily misclassify it as ConnectionR. To traverse ConnectionR,
NA TBlaster [15] proposes to use the birthday paradox by initiat-
ing 439 connections. Besides the heavy-weight design, it also re-
quires root access to the mobile devices, which normal users do
not have. In contrast, as shown in §3.3, by leveraging the time-
dependent information we propose a light-weight traversal scheme
for time-dependent mapping, which only requires initiating a few
connections without any root privilege.
Multiple NAT boxes for a single client: Interestingly, Table 3
shows that the NetPiculet clients in 3 carriers encounter two dif-
ferent mapping types. Sometimes, the connections from the same
client are even assigned two distinct external IP addresses although
the client’s private IP address remains the same. To validate this ob-
servation, we conducted controlled experiments in Carrier B whose
clients experience both ConnectionT and Address and PortT map-
pings. By establishing many connections with different ﬁve tuples
between a mobile client and the NetPiculet server, we found that
the mapping type encountered by a connection is determined by its
source and destination ports. If the two port numbers add up to an
even number, the connection experiences Address and PortT map-
ping. Otherwise, the mapping type is ConnectionT . Similarly, a
connection is mapped to one of two external IP addresses depend-
ing on the sum of the source and destination port numbers.
NA T boxes are usually deployed at the top of the network infras-
tructure hierarchy of a cellular network, e.g., near GGSN (Gateway
GPRS Support Nodes) [4]. They serve the aggregate trafﬁc from
a large number of mobile users. It is likely that a carrier deploys
multiple NA T boxes to balance their load based on the hash of the
ﬁve tuple (source and destination ports in Carrier B). This again
may interfere with NA T traversal and will be further discussed in
§3.3.
3.2.2 Other NAT Results
Because the NetPiculet client requires raw socket to measure the
remaining four NA T properties, we are only able to report the re-
sults from users who run NetPiculet client with root privilege in 20
cellular networks shown in Table 4.
Endpoint ﬁltering: All the 20 carriers (100%) employ Address
and Port ﬁltering, which requires the source IP address and port of
an incoming packet to exactly match the destination IP address and
port of an existing connection in NA T. This is the most restrictive
ﬁltering policy. Given that only 82% of home NA Ts use Address
and Port ﬁltering [21], NA T traversal in cellular networks appears
to be more challenging.
TCP state tracking: 18 carriers allow an incoming SYN packet
377

NA T property # carriers
Endpoint ﬁltering 20 use Address and Port
SYN-out SYN-in 18 allow, 2 disallow
SYN-out SYN-ACK-out 18 allow, 2 disallow
Filtering response 19 silently drop, 1 sends RST
Packet mangling 0 modiﬁes sequence number
Table 4: NAT properties for 20 cellular networks.
a
fter an outgoing SYN packet. 18 carriers allow an outgoing SYN-
ACK packet following an outgoing SYN packet. One carrier in
Hungary does not allow either sequence of packets. This suggests
that the two underlying mechanisms (TCP simultaneous open and
packet forging) of the existing NA T traversal schemes [21] are still
viable in most cellular networks that we studied.
Filtering response: 19 carriers drop unsolicited incoming SYN
packets silently while only one carrier in France responds with RST
packets. This means the NA T traversal process is unlikely to be dis-
rupted by the removal of an existing connection mapping triggered
by a RST packet.
Packet mangling: None of the 20 carriers modiﬁes TCP sequence
number. Hence, packet mangling does not appear to be an issue for
NA T traversal in cellular networks.
3.3 Implications on NAT Traversal
As we have explained, the connections from a single mobile
client may be handled by more than one NA T. Even worse, these
NA Ts may have different mapping types and external IP addresses.
Because the existing NA T traversal approaches assume a client is
behind only one NA T box [21], they will have trouble in determin-
ing the correct NA T mapping type and external IP address. For in-
stance, suppose a client obtains two different external IP addresses
(IPs and IPc) when connecting to the third-party server S and the
other client C respectively. Then C will attempt to establish a con-
nection to IPs learned from S. This attempt will fail because the
NA T we studied applies Address and Port ﬁltering and only per-
mits connection to IPs from S.
Handling NAT load balancing: network load balancing is typi-
cally performed at the ﬂow level, e.g., based on the ﬁve tuple hash,
to avoid packet reordering within a ﬂow [16]. If the ﬁve tuple hash
is conﬁgured statically, we need to discover the hash rule and only
establish connections through the same NA T during NA T traversal.
For instance, in Carrier B, we can ensure that the connections tra-
verse only one NA T by making the sum of source and destination
port numbers an even (or odd) number. We consider it as 2-way bal-
ancing solely based on our measurement observation. This problem
becomes much more challenging if the hash function is more com-
plicated, e.g., based on the real-time load or n-way balancing where
(n>2). We leave it for our future study.
Traversing time-dependent NAT:Since the external port number
linearly increments over time on this type of NA T, we can predict
the port number according to the port increment rate r and elapsed
time t between a new and an old connection. We now describe
how to establish a connection between client a and client b behind
an independent and a time-dependent NA Ts. Suppose clientb learns
the external endpoint (1.2.3.4:5678) of clienta through a third-party
server S. Client b ﬁrst creates two connections to S and 1.2.3.4:5678
respectively. It also records the time interval t between the two con-
nections and sends the predicted port number increase ( δ = r × t)
to S. Upon receiving this information, S relays the external port
number of client b’s ﬁrst connection ( e.g., 9000) and δ to client a.
Clienta then attempts to connect to client b from the same external
endpoint (1.2.3.4:5678) to multiple destination ports in the range
of [9000 + δ − n,9000 + δ + n] (starting from the middle), until
 0
 10
 20
 30
 40
 50
 60
 70
 80
 90
 100
 0  2  4  6  8  10  12  14  16  18  20  22  24  26  28  30
Success rate (%)
# trials
Figure 3: Success rate for traversing independent and time-
d
ependent NATs.
it successfully hits the true external port value of client b’s second
connection. Here n is introduced to deal with imprecision in port
prediction and is set to 15 by default.
Note that client a must be behind an independent NA T for the
traversal to succeed. Because it is difﬁcult to precisely predict the
external port of client b’s second connection, client a has to try mul-
tiple destination ports when connecting to client b. If client a is be-
hind other types of NA T, e.g., Address and Port δ or Connectionδ ,
the external port of client a’s trial connections will keep changing.
Thus, a trial connection will be rejected by client b’s NA T (because
of Address and Port ﬁltering) even if it does hit the right destination
port.
We implemented this traversal scheme on Android and studied
the success rate for establishing a connection between a smart-
phone in Carrier A and one in Carrier B. We learned from our
previous measurements that the two carriers use independent and
time-dependent NA T mappings respectively. Figure 3 shows the
success rate of NA T traversal through 1,000 runs. The x-axis is
the number of trials client a makes before successfully establish-
ing a connection with client b. It also roughly corresponds to the
number of seconds the NA T traversal takes to succeed since we use
a one-second timeout between two consecutive trials. The ﬁgure
shows an 80% success rate within 12 seconds. It is noteworthy that
we also tried out two popular P2P video chatting applications on
Android, Fring [5] and Tango [6], none of which can successfully
establish direct TCP connection in the same experimental environ-
ment.
3.4 Summary
To summarize our study on NA T in cellular networks.
• We discovered a previously-unknown NA T mapping that lin-
early increments port numbers with time. We designed and
implemented a corresponding traversal scheme, which can
succeed with high probability.
• A single mobile client may encounter more than one NA T
mapping in cellular networks, likely due to load balancing,
which requires extra care to ensure the same mapping during
the traversal process.
• 19 out of the 72 carriers we studied assign random ports for
connections on their NA Ts, which is the worst scenario for
NA T traversal. To better support P2P applications, we sug-
gest operators and vendors implement or conﬁgure consistent
mapping on their NA Ts.
4. FIREW ALL POLICIES
Firewalls are essential for carriers to protect their networks. As
mentioned earlier, without such protection, attackers can more eas-
378

ily launch various attacks targeting either the network infr astruc-
ture [26] or mobile devices [32]. Even though some carriers deploy
NA Ts, which naturally protect internal networks by dropping unso-
licited incoming packets that do not have existing NA T mappings,
they often still conﬁgure ﬁrewalls to further enhance network secu-
rity (e.g., by performing deep packet inspection and tracking TCP
connection state). In this section, we study the key properties of
ﬁrewalls in cellular networks from the perspective of their effec-
tiveness to guard against potentially malicious trafﬁc as well as
policies that can negatively impact performance and energy. In-
deed, we uncovered policies and conﬁguration settings that unex-
pectedly impact both performance and energy.
4.1 Methodology
NetPiculet consists of several ﬁrewall tests targeting different as-
pects of the ﬁrewall. We describe the motivation and methodol-
ogy of those tests in this section. We study the properties of ﬁre-
wall policies in two aspects: IP spooﬁng and stateful ﬁrewall. IP
spooﬁng policy is one that can be potentially overlooked but in fact
can undermine the purpose of NA T and ﬁrewall to protect mobile
phones from probing and scanning. Stateful ﬁrewall can impact
reachability, affecting both security and performance.
4.1.1 Testing IP Spooﬁng
Previous study on Internet IP spooﬁng [14] has shown that IP
spooﬁng is still widely allowed. However, it unclear how prevalent
it is in cellular networks. The unique implication of IP spooﬁng
can be summarized in the following story [30]: There has been
a well-known attack on jailbroken iPhones’ sshd program where
a default password is used. A worm scanned the public IP ranges
and propagated via this weakness and eventually infected more than
21,000 phones.
Obviously, networks with NA Ts or ﬁrewalls that block unso-
licited incoming trafﬁc are not vulnerable to this worm, as external
hosts cannot scan phones inside the cellular network. The ability
to perform IP spooﬁng completely changes this by allowing a sin-
gle phone to punch many holes on the NA Ts and ﬁrewalls, thus
allowing external servers to scan the phones in the internal net-
works. More speciﬁcally, as long as the attacker controls a phone
in the network, she can send spoofed SYN packets to an attacker-
controlled server which can then send SYN back to the spoofed
IP (victim). Besides scanning, attackers can also launch battery
draining attacks [32] by continuously sending packets to the target
phones.
To determine whether a given phone’s network allows IP spoof-
ing, NetPiculet client modiﬁes the source IP ﬁeld in the IP header
for outgoing TCP SYN packets. We randomly choose 10 source
IP addresses in its own /24 and /16 IP preﬁxes and send a SYN
packet using the chosen IP . The SYN packet is to mimic a legit-
imate TCP connection establishment request initiated by a device
inside the cellular network which will be allowed by the ﬁrewall
and NA T. We also studied UDP packets. Note that other packets
are not of interest as they can be easily blocked by NA T. If the Net-
Piculet server sees the corresponding public IP address translated
by NA T, it records the spoofed private IP address, obtained from
the payload, and the mapped public IP address pair and consider
the carrier as permitting IP spooﬁng.
4.1.2 Testing Stateful Firewall
Stateful ﬁrewalls can determine legitimate packets under differ-
ent connection states ( e.g., states associated with a TCP connec-
tion). In each state, only packets matching certain criteria are al-
lowed to traverse through the ﬁrewall (for either incoming or out-
going trafﬁc). For mobile carriers deploying NA T boxes (Carrier A
and Carrier B), external trafﬁc cannot reach devices directly with-
out devices initiating an outbound connection ﬁrst. Hence, the Net-
Piculet client and server have to coordinate to reveal the ﬁrewall
policies for those carriers. We ﬁrst perform this test in a local en-
vironment setting to help us understand properties of interest, i.e.,
those impact performance and security. We subsequently deployed
only tests associated with such properties on NetPiculet client to
ensure they ﬁnish quickly on end-users’ phones.
Note that we veriﬁed using local experiments, the packet block-
ing behavior imposed by the ﬁrewall is applicable to both incoming
and outgoing trafﬁc. However, the net effect of which incoming and
outgoing packets are allowed may not be symmetric because of the
presence of NA T. Also, the buffering behavior described later in
§4.1.2 applies to both directions as well.
Due to the popularity of TCP , we conduct controlled experiments
between NetPiculet client and server to infer the ﬁrewall policies
in various TCP states such as SYN-SENT, SYN-REVD, ESTAB-
LISHED etc. Speciﬁcally, in each state, we perform the following
tests:
1. Single packet ﬁlter test: Probing using SYN, SYN-ACK,
ACK, DA TA, FIN, RST packets from the NetPiculet server
to check if they are allowed.
2. Timeout test for each state: If any such probing packet is
allowed, we infer the timeout value in each state by incre-
mentally increasing the interval between consecutive probes.
3. Sequence (SEQ) window test for state transition: for packets
that trigger state transitions, we probe with a range of SEQ
number and ACK number to verify if they can still enable the
correct transitions.
4. SEQ window test for ESTABLISHED state: we vary the
SEQ number of DA TA packets via binary search to infer the
SEQ window size adopted by the ﬁrewall.
Given that some of these tests are quite time-consuming, we se-
lected a subset, expected to signiﬁcantly impact application secu-
rity and performance, as shown in §4.1.3 and §4.1.4, to be inte-
grated into the NetPiculet client.
4.1.3 Testing TCP Connection Timeout
Through local experiments, we found that ﬁrewalls deployed
by Carrier B have a very short timeout for idle TCP connections.
Thus TCP connections of chat applications are frequently timed
out. Such applications require long-lived connections, e.g., MSN
Talk on Android. To understand the timer values of ﬁrewalls, we
integrate the timeout inference test into NetPiculet.
To infer the timer value on the ﬁrewall that times out idle TCP
connections, NetPiculet client creates multiple connections in par-
allel to NetPiculet server without enabling keep-alive option. Each
connection sends a message to the server after a speciﬁc amount of
idle time. The server responds to the client upon receiving the mes-
sage. If the connection is still alive when the message is sent, the
client should receive the response message from the server. Other-
wise, the connection is timed out by the ﬁrewall. NetPiculet client
tries four idle time intervals: 5, 10, 20, and 30 minutes, to bound
the inferred timeout timer value within these ranges.
4.1.4 Testing Out-of-Order Packet Buffering
During our controlled experiments to test the SEQ window size,
we accidentally discovered that some ﬁrewalls buffer out-of-order
TCP packets. We inject packets with large sequence numbers to
check if the ﬁrewall has a SEQ window such that packets with se-
quence number out of the window would be dropped. Initially we
thought packets were dropped whenever the other end did not re-
ceive them, after accounting for network loss. We then discovered
379

that after those missing packets arrive, the injected packet s with
large sequence numbers are released, indicating the buffering be-
havior. This ensures packets are delivered in order, most likely
motivated by the need to perform deep packet inspection (DPI)
to detect security attacks, a feature we found to be available in
some commercial routers [10]. As we discuss later in §4.3.2, this
buffering behavior has signiﬁcant impact on TCP performance in
the presence of packet loss. We implement this test in NetPiculet.
To realize this test for detecting buffering in both directions, we
intentionally drop one packet from the many packets on the sender
side, and observe whether there will be any ACK packet received
for beyond the lost packet. If there is no response after certain time
window (e.g., 5 seconds), we conclude the ﬁrewall does buffer out-
of-order packets. 5 seconds is chosen as it is sufﬁciently large to
account for some of the performance impact on TCP , as described
in §4.3.2.
4.2 Firewall Characteristics
We next describe the ﬁrewall testing results, including results
from both local controlled experiments and tests implemented in
the NetPiculet client deployed in the wild.
4.2.1 IP Spooﬁng
For local experiments, we studied one of the carriers found to al-
low IP spooﬁng to quantify how fast one can scan inside a cellular
network. We scanned a randomly chosen /24 IP range as fast as
possible by sending spoofed SYN packets back to back. We repeat
the experiment for 10 times, and the result shows that it takes on
average 2 – 3 seconds for all IP spooﬁng packets to be received by
the external server, and then 3 – 4 seconds are spent for the servers
to scan and wait for the response. Note that to receive packets,
mobile devices have to obtain radio resource ﬁrst, which normally
takes 1 – 2 seconds [31]. The probing packets will likely experi-
ence such delay before reaching the scanned devices. In practice,
if the attacker is continuously scanning a large range of IPs, the
throughput of spooﬁng is usually the bottleneck, which we found
to be around 90 packets/second. Compared to data packets, we do
not ﬁnd any signs of rate limiting on the spoofed SYN packets, as
their throughput numbers are very close. In our scanning of the /24
preﬁx, we found 54 hosts on average responding to the probing.
NetPiculet was able to perform the IP spooﬁng test in 60 cellu-
lar networks, among which 4 allow IP spooﬁng. Despite the low
absolute number, the percentage is still signiﬁcant: 6.7%. Fur-
ther, all four carriers are large cellular ISPs, covering U.S. and
Europe respectively. Thus they can be proﬁtable targets for attack-
ers. Given that speciﬁcations and commercial products are already
available [11, 9] that can prevent IP spooﬁng at ﬁnest granular-
ity (using subscriber information IMSI/MSISDN available in each
packet header), it is surprising to see that these four large carriers
allow IP spooﬁng.
We further investigate the range of spoofable IP addresses (/24
and /16). Surprisingly, each of the four carriers allows /24 and /16
to be spoofed. This is likely due to the fact the NA T box is shared at
the very high level of the network infrastructure inside the cellular
network, usually co-located with GGSN [4]. We expect IP spooﬁng
prevention to be enforced at GGSNs, as conﬁrmed by commercial
products available [9] that advertise such features.
4.2.2 Stateful Firewall
We observe that the stateful ﬁrewall policies usually do not strictly
follow the TCP speciﬁcations ( e.g., packets with an invalid ACK
number can still traverse the ﬁrewall). There are two key reasons
for this: (1) It is expensive to check all the low-level details to the
degree that a host networking stack does. (2) There are many TCP
variants; thus, ﬁrewall policies should be ﬂexible enough to accom-
CLOSED
SYN-
SENT
ESTABLI
SHED
- Phone: SYN
- Phone: non SYN
or
SYN-ACK
- Stays in the
state for 20 sec
SYN-
ACK
-
RCVD - Server:
SYN
-ACK
- Phone: ACK, with
strict
SEQ and ACK
number
SYN-
RCV
D- Server: SYN
- Phone: ACK
-
Server: ACK
(with strict SEQ
and ACK number)
- Stays in the state
for
30 sec
- Stays in the state
for
30 sec
- Timeout after ~
1800
secs of
inactivity - SEQ window
[
-1G, +1G]
Figure 4: TCP State diagram of Carrier A’s ﬁrewall.
m
odate most if not all of them. The latter is an inherent problem
of network-based ﬁrewalls and intrusion detection systems [35]. In
our study, we found signiﬁcant variations among the stateful ﬁre-
wall policies adopted by various carriers. Next we explain in detail
the key properties of the inferred TCP state machine on the ﬁre-
walls, which serves as the necessary prelude for discussing their
implication.
Figures 4 shows the TCP state diagram we inferred for the ﬁre-
walls in Carrier A. Carrier B has a similar diagram except for some
minor differences, which can still have signiﬁcant implications for
applications as explained below.
Carrier A’s ﬁrewall : In Figure 4, we infer that there are 5 states,
slightly different from the TCP states deﬁned on end-host. The ﬁg-
ure is fairly self-explanatory. We only highlight the key interesting
state transitions identiﬁed, as indicated with bold lines.
There are several observations associated with the ESTABLISHED
state. We found that even after a legitimate close sequence (FIN,
FIN-ACK, ACK), one can still send packets into the cellular net-
works from external networks, indicating that the ﬁrewall did not
go back to the CLOSED state. We discuss implications of this un-
expected behavior in §4.3.4.
The ESTABLISHED state has an inactivity timer associated with
each TCP connection. If the timer expires, the connection state is
removed from the ﬁrewall and no additional packets are allowed
until a new connection is established (starting over from TCP’s
three-way handshake). This timer value is 1800 seconds which we
compare with another carrier and discuss its impact in §4.3.1.
In the ESTABLISHED state, the ﬁrewall checks the TCP SEQ
of all packets from either direction to ensure that they fall into a
window of SEQ from previously seen packets. The problem is that
this window size δ seems to be statically conﬁgured to liberally ac-
commodate packet reordering. As an example, if the server’s ﬁrst
packet has SEQ of n, the second packet must have a SEQ from
[n − δ ,n + δ ]. The range [n − δ ,n) is to allow retransmission of
lost packets. The range (n,n + δ ] is to allow out-of-order pack-
ets. Dropping them would cause unnecessary retransmission from
the sender. Surprisingly, we found that δ can be as large as 1G
(and sometimes 128K), depending on the types of ﬁrewall encoun-
tered. We also found that different IP ranges go through different
ﬁrewalls likely due to different network paths. 128K is normally
good enough in today’s 3G networks as the delay × bandwidth is
typically capped at 0.2s × 4Mbps = 100KB, which is smaller than
128KB. However, for future networks such as 4G with higher net-
380

Timeout (min) (0,5] (5, 10] (10, 20] (20, 30] (30, ∞ ) Total
# carriers 4 7 6 8 48 73
Table 5: Measured TCP timeout timers in cellular network ﬁre-
w
alls.
work capacity, a loss of one packet may cause its following packets
overﬂow the 128KB window and be unnecessarily dropped.
Also, another important ﬁnding is that for packets that fall within
(n,n + δ ], they are not delivered immediately. Instead, they are
buffered until in-order packets arrive. This behavior actually leads
to security issues as well as performance impact due to unexpected
interaction with TCP stack as discussed later in §4.3.3 and §4.3.2.
Carrier B’s ﬁrewall : Its state diagram closely resembles that of
Carrier A ’s. One major difference is that its ﬁrewall is much less
restrictive in determining if a TCP connection is established (from
SYN-ACK-RCVD and SYN-RCVD to ESTABLISHED). As long
as the SEQ of the ACK packet falls into a (-128K, +128K) window
from the previous SEQ, the ﬁrewall advances the state to ESTAB-
LISHED. This may allow fake connections to be established on the
ﬁrewall. Also, unlike Carrier A ’s ﬁrewall, Carrier B’s ﬁrewall does
not buffer out-of-order packets.
In the ESTABLISHED state, the inactivity timeout value is much
smaller (255 seconds) compared to that of Carrier A ’s, more seri-
ously affecting long-lived connections such as push-based services
as elaborated in §4.3.1. In addition, the SEQ window of 128K for
the ESTABLISHED state is much smaller compared to Carrier A ’s.
4.3 Implications and Recommendations
Given our previous discussions on several interesting observa-
tions from the ﬁrewall policy inference results, we elaborate on
their impact on application performance and security. To quantify
such impact we conduct further controlled experiments. We also
describe the important implications and recommendations for the
ﬁrewall.
4.3.1 Energy Impact of TCP Connection Timeout
Long-lived connections (e.g., push-based services such as email)
assume persistent TCP connections. Given the inactivity timer on
the ﬁrewall, periodic keep-alive messages must be sent to maintain
the connection. Otherwise, applications’ ability to receive timely
notiﬁcations can be impaired. The default TCP keep-alive timer of
2 hours [7] is clearly too large to help maintain the connection. In
fact, we tested MSN Talk, one of the MSN messenger applications
on Android, and discovered that Carrier B’s ﬁrewall terminates idle
connections (using spoofed RST packet) after 255 seconds, forc-
ing the application to re-establish the connection immediately to
restore the service. This may appear to be equivalent to sending
keep-alive messages but transmitting more data and incurring addi-
tional delays.
Table 5 summarizes the measured TCP timeout timers of vari-
ous carriers tested by NetPiculet. Among the 73 carriers measured,
11 have a timer shorter than 10 minutes, four of them with a timer
of only at most 5 minutes. Since radio resource is allocated every
time a keep-alive packet is sent for an idle connection, over time
such packets can consume signiﬁcant amount of energy for end de-
vices and also incur high signaling overhead for cellular networks.
To quantify the energy impact, we assume a long-lived connection
which regularly sends keep-alive to reset the ﬁrewall timer right be-
fore it is about to expire. We use existing cellular interface power
models [31] to estimate the ratio of energy spent on keep-alive per
day for a common smartphone battery capacity (1350 mhA). While
the actual energy consumption may vary across different networks
and devices, the overall conclusion that signiﬁcant energy waste
due to small timers shown in Figure 5 is generally applicable. For
example, more than 17% of the battery capacity is spent on keep-
 0
 20
 40
 60
 80
 100
 1  10  100
Energy on keep-alive / battery capacity (%)
TCP timeout timer (min)
Figure 5: The ratio of energy of sending keep-alive messages
p
er day to the battery capacity (1350 mAh).
alive everyday when the timer is less than 5 minutes, while it drops
sharply as the timer becomes longer. The waste is reduced to less
than 2% for 30 minute timers.
Network operators must consider an inherent tradeoff when set-
ting the timer for terminating idle TCP connections. On one hand,
larger timer values reduce the energy cost and signaling overhead
caused by keep-alive packets to maintain the connection. On the
other hand, they use up more memory at the ﬁrewalls for keep-
ing track of existing connections. Firewalls generally have limited
capacity to process concurrent connections; thus, carriers have in-
centives to set smaller timers to terminate idle connections in order
to support more concurrent active users.
It is of interest to investigate the best way for developers to im-
plement push-based services which are becoming more popular.
One approach is to use the push service framework in the SDK.
Both Apple and Google provide such framework API, which de-
velopers can use to implement push based services [2, 3]. The way
it works is that when the third-party application server α has data
to push to the mobile device, it informs the push notiﬁcation server
β, which belongs to Apple or Google, β then sends a notiﬁcation
message to the targeted mobile device through a long-lived TCP
connection maintained by the framework. The framework provides
two beneﬁts. First, since the framework takes care of maintaining
the long-lived connection, developers do not need to deal with di-
verse timer values in different networks. Second, since notiﬁcations
of different applications share the single long-lived connection, en-
ergy cost on the mobile device is lower compared with the case
where each application has its own long-lived connection.
It is interesting to note that in Carrier B’s network, port 5228
stands out from others with a larger timeout value of 1600 sec-
onds compared to the default of 255 seconds. Port 5228 is actually
used by Google’s push service framework [3] to send notiﬁcations.
We suspect that Carrier B intentionally makes this optimization for
Google, which reduces the overhead of re-establishing the connec-
tion repeatedly. However, veriﬁed by our experiments, Carrier B
only uses the port number to make the distinction. Therefore, de-
velopers can take advantage of this port number to obtain a longer
connection timeout value.
4.3.2 Performance and Energy Impact of Buffering
As described before, some ﬁrewalls buffer out-of-order packets
within a conﬁgured range of sequence numbers and deliver them
when in-order packets arrive. Two legitimate cases trigger such
buffering behavior: 1) packet loss; 2) packets re-ordered along the
path. Normally the ﬁrst scenario happens much more frequently
than the second one. It is worth mentioning that Carrier A, a U.S.
nation-wide cellular service provider, shows the buffering behavior,
and it buffers out-of-order packets for more than an hour.
Disabling “TCP fast retransmit” . A major problem with such
buffering behavior is that it disables TCP fast retransmission, which
381

 150000
 200000
 250000
 300000
 350000
 400000
14 16 18 20 22 24
Sequence number
Time (sec)
1 2
Server (sender)
Phone (receiver)
Figure 6: Sender’s TCP sequence numbers monitored on
s
erver and client in Carrier A’s network.
 0
 50000
 100000
 150000
 200000
0 50 100 150 200 250
Sequence number
Time (sec)
1
2
3
Server (sender)
Phone (receiver)
Figure 7: The impact of ﬁrewall buffering on TCP ﬂow
w
hen FRTO is implemented on the sender side.
 0
 20
 40
 60
 80
 100
 120
 140
 160
 0  1  2  3  4  5
Downloading time (sec)
Loss rate (%)
w/o firewall
w/ firewall
Figure 8: The average downloading time for 1MB ﬁle under
d
ifferent loss rates.
 0
 20
 40
 60
 80
 100
 120
100 500 1000 2000
Downloading time (sec)
File size (KB)
No loss
w/o firewall
w/ firewall
Figure 9: The ﬁrewall impact on downloading time for dif-
f
erent ﬁle size under 1% loss rate.
is used to reduce the time a sender waits before retransmitting a lost
segment and without which a sender has to use a timer to detect any
lost segment. It works as follows: if a TCP sender receives three
duplicate acknowledgements with the same acknowledge (ACK)
number, i.e., a total of four ACKs with the same ACK number, the
sender can be reasonably conﬁdent that the segment with the next
higher sequence number was dropped. The sender then retransmits
the packet before waiting for its timeout.
Buffering disables fast retransmission because the sender is un-
able to observe any duplicate ACKs. For instance, if packet 1 is
dropped and packets 2, 3, 4 and 5 arrive. The ﬁrewall buffers pack-
ets 2 – 5 since it never sees 1. This way, the receiver does not see
any packets and cannot send any response. As a result, the sender
has to resort to timeout-based retransmission.
Figure 6 illustrates the problem using a packet trace from our
local experiment in Carrier A ’s network. A packet loss occurs at
arrow 1, and the sender keeps sending more packets to ﬁll the con-
gestion window. Since the ﬁrewall does not see the lost packet, it
buffers all the later packets, which are considered out-of-order. The
sender thus is unable to get any response from the receiver and has
to fall back to time-out based retransmission noted as the gap in the
ﬁgure.
Bad interaction with TCP “Protect Against Wrapped Sequence
number (PA WS)”. At arrow 2 in Figure 6, the ﬁrewall released
all the buffered packets upon seeing the retransmitted lost packet.
However, those packets were retransmitted later by the sender through
slow start, even though they have successfully reached the receiver.
We investigated this behavior and found the explanation in RFC [24]
where PAWS is deﬁned. PAWS uses TCP timestamp to reject po-
tentially old packets that might corrupt an ongoing TCP connec-
tion. With TCP timestamp option enabled, the timestamp on the
buffered packets was strictly smaller than the timestamp on the re-
transmitted packet. Consequently the receiver rejected the buffered
packets by sending back duplicate ACKs which then triggered the
following retransmission. The pile of packets at arrow 2 also indi-
cates that the ﬁrewall has a limited buffer size. We measured the
buffer size to be 10 packets per TCP ﬂow and conﬁrmed the setup
with the documentation of commercial routers [10].
To quantify the impact of disabling fast retransmit on applica-
tion performance and energy, we perform controlled experiments
to measure the time and energy consumption for downloading ﬁles
of different size from our server. We use WiFi to emulate the delay
of 3G network (400ms RTT derived from a recent study [23]) to
have full control over the loss rate and ﬁrewall conﬁguration. On
the hosting server, a small Perl script is used to control the loss
rate by randomly dropping packets with certain probabilities. To
emulate the ﬁrewall buffering behavior for the same TCP ﬂow, the
script buffers the ﬁrst 10 packets (as we observed in Carrier A ’s
network) with sequence number larger than the packet previously
dropped intentionally and drops the remaining ones. Upon receiv-
ing a retransmitted packet with the same sequence number as the
intentionally dropped packet, it releases all the buffered packets.
We vary the loss rate from 0 to 5% and download each ﬁle 10 times
under each setting.
Figure 8 shows that even with a loss rate of 1%, the downloading
time for a 1MB ﬁle is increased by 50% due the ﬁrewall buffering
behavior. And the degradation is worse with higher loss rate. Un-
der the same loss rate, the buffering has less impact on smaller ﬁles.
As shown in Figure 9 compared with normal loss without ﬁrewall,
the ﬁrewall incurs 21% extra delay for a 100KB ﬁle while 44%
increased delay for 500KB ﬁles for a loss rate of 1%. However,
a recent study [1] points out that TCP-based streaming applica-
tions that typically send large amount of data contribute to majority
of smartphone trafﬁc. So the overall network performance could
be signiﬁcantly affected by ﬁrewall with such buffering behavior.
Note that the cellular radio interface always stays in high power
state during the entire download process. Even when there is no
trafﬁc during RTO, the interface still remains in high power state
382

due to the tail time [31]. The energy consumption for download ing
the same amount of data increases almost linearly with the down-
loading time.
Bad interaction with “TCP Forward RTO-Recovery (F-RTO)”
Since PAWS makes the buffered packets useless to the receiver, we
were wondering whether letting the receiver accept the buffered
packet would reduce the negative impact of buffering on TCP per-
formance. Therefore, we disabled the TCP timestamp option on the
sender side and repeated the experiments to measure the download-
ing time. Surprisingly, we found the TCP connection almost hung
up after a single packet loss. As we ﬁgured out later, it is due to
the bad interaction between buffering and F-RTO, a TCP extension
deﬁned in RFC [33].
F-RTO is designed to detect spurious TCP retransmission time-
outs which cause unnecessary retransmissions when no segments
are lost. After a spurious retransmission timeout, the late acknowl-
edgments of the original segments arrive at the sender, usually trig-
gering unnecessary retransmissions of the entire window of seg-
ments. This can happen when, for instance, some mobile network-
ing technologies introduce sudden delay spikes on transmission due
to actions taken during a hand-off.
When a retransmission timeout (RTO) occurs, the F-RTO sender
retransmits the ﬁrst unacknowledged segment as usual. Deviating
from the normal operation after a timeout, it then tries to transmit
new, previously unsent data, for the ﬁrst ACK that arrives after the
timeout given that the ACK advances the window. If the second
ACK that arrives after the timeout also advances the window, i.e.,
acknowledges data that was not retransmitted, the F-RTO sender
declares the RTO as spurious and exits the RTO recovery. How-
ever, if either of the next two ACKs is a duplicate ACK, no suf-
ﬁcient evidence is found for a spurious RTO. The F-RTO sender
retransmits the unacknowledged segments in slow start similar to
the traditional algorithm.
This behavior is illustrated in Figure 7. A packet loss occurred
at arrow 1, marked on the ﬁgure. The sender keeps sending about
30 more packets to ﬁll the congestion window, 10 of which are
buffered at the ﬁrewall, the rest dropped due to buffer space con-
straints. At arrow 2, the sender retransmits the lost packet after
retransmission timeout which triggers the buffered packets to be
released (since it is now in-order). The receiver then receives 11
packets including the retransmitted one. At this point, the sender
behaves according to F-RTO. At arrow 3, instead of retransmitting
unacknowledged packets in the congestion window, it now tries to
transmit new, previously unsent data. If no duplicate ACKs are re-
ceived, the sender can save the unnecessary effort of retransmitting
the unacknowledged packets. However, this optimization fails to
consider the case where the newly transmitted packets are buffered
at the ﬁrewall causing no ACKs to be received. Later, the sender
has to repeat the entire process of F-RTO again and further trans-
mit new, previously unsent data. As we can see in the ﬁgure, in
each round, the retransmission timeout is doubled with only one
packet successfully delivered, effectively rendering the connection
useless. And this is triggered by only a single packet loss shown by
arrow 1.
The fundamental problem here is that this F-RTO algorithm does
not expect packets to be buffered by the ﬁrewall for so long. Intu-
itively, one way to address this issue is to limit the buffering time
to a small value ( e.g., < 1s). However, we found that ﬁrewalls
with Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) capability must examine
or perform deep packet inspection (DPI) on in-order packets be-
fore they can be delivered to provide strong security guarantees.
Indeed, many such IPS boxes are sold today by major vendors such
as Cisco [10]. At the moment, we did not observe other carriers im-
plementing similar buffering policy yet, but we did observe consis-
tent buffering behavior from 14 users in 8 U.S. states. Further, this
behavior can become more prevalent in the future due to increasing
security concerns for mobile cellular networks. Since F-RTO was
implemented in Linux kernel 2.6.22 in 2007, the majority of Linux
servers are likely impacted.
In summary, regardless of the TCP timestamp option, the buffer-
ing behavior always disables the TCP fast retransmission which can
degrade TCP performance signiﬁcantly. If the TCP timestamp op-
tion is enabled, it can have bad interaction with PAWS. Without the
TCP timestamp option, it can have adverse interaction with F-RTO,
seriously rendering the TCP connection completely useless.
4.3.3 Exploiting Large Sequence Number Window
We have discussed the property of a SEQ window [− δ ,+δ ] on
the ﬁrewall to allow legitimate TCP packets through while blocking
potentially malicious packets. In general, this window size should
not be much bigger than the receiver window size, which is mostly
64K or 128K in most smartphone operating systems today (with the
TCP window scaling option). For Carrier A, the window of [-1G,
+1G] is too large. This allows arbitrary data packets to be injected
assuming the knowledge of the 5 tuple, since the data packets are
being buffered instead of being dropped immediately.
As the ﬁrewall can buffer 10 packets at most, an attacker can
equally spread 40 data packets across the 4G SEQ space where at
most 10 of them are buffered at (0, +1G]. Some of the buffer space
can be occupied by legitimate packets that arrive out of order. To
simplify the discussion, we assume for now that attackers can oc-
cupy all the 10 buffer slots. In this case, a TCP connection will
always be injected with a packet with any payload within at most
100MB of data transfer. On average, about 50MB of data transfer
is needed. The likelihood of success is much higher if this attack
is attempted concurrently on many users and at different times of
the day. Given that it takes only 40 packets for one trial, it is fairly
cheap to blindly launch such attacks. For example, every 500 trials,
an attacker can with high probability succeed at least one connec-
tion within 500KB of data transfer. Therefore, the large sequence
number window property of such ﬁrewalls effectively ampliﬁes the
severity of blind data injection attacks [12] against TCP . TCP con-
nections which transfer more data are especially vulnerable. The
effect of this attack varies depending on different types of appli-
cations. For ﬁle downloading, it can corrupt the ﬁle content and
render it unusable or even dangerous (imagine an executable ﬁle
with altered instructions). For video streaming, however, a single
corrupted packet can be tolerated by the video codec without much
problem.
4.3.4 Flaws with Closing TCP Connections
For Carrier A, when the state transitions to the CLOSED state,
the server can still send SYN packets continuously to drain the
phones’ battery even though the phone has invoked socket close()
on its side. This is because some state is not properly de-allocated
by the ﬁrewall and NA T, which operate independently. More specif-
ically, the NA T still keeps an entry for the previous connection
which gets cleaned up only after 20 seconds of timeout if it sees
FIN packets. It is easy to keep resetting the timer by sending a
packet every 20 seconds. The ﬁrewall always allows an incom-
ing SYN packet as it treats it as a new connection. By maintain-
ing the state at the NA T and the ﬁrewall, a malicious server can
keep sending packets to the phone that it previously communicated
with to drain its battery, even though the phone has already closed
the connection. Such battery-draining attack can cause up to 22.3
times energy consumption and deplete the battery within several
hours [32].
383

Due to the same problem, the back-to-back connections using
t
he same ﬁve tuple could be delayed up to 25 seconds. As a conse-
quence, the whole process of NA T mapping discovery (described
in §3.1.1) could take more than three minutes. Comparing the
packet traces dumped from both the server and client, we noticed
that the SYN packets sent by the client to create new connections
are dropped in the network during the delayed time duration.
4.4 Summary
Next we summarize the key ﬁndings for the ﬁrewall study.
• We discovered that 4 of 60 cellular networks allow IP spoof-
ing, which can make hosts vulnerable to scanning and battery
draining attacks even though they are behind the ﬁrewall and
NA T.
• We discovered 11 of 73 carriers set the TCP inactivity time-
out to be less than 10 minutes, which can cost signiﬁcant
amount of energy in maintaining long-lived connections used
by push-based services. For carriers, we recommend a 30-
minute timeout value. For application developers, we sug-
gest they follow the push service framework in SDK where
multiple services share a single persistent connection.
• We discovered the TCP out-of-order buffering behavior in
some ﬁrewalls causing several unexpected interaction with
common TCP behavior deﬁned in the TCP speciﬁcations,
leading to degraded performance and energy waste. Reduc-
ing the buffering time or increasing the buffer size both have
negative impact on security. Thus, there is an inherent trade-
off between performance and security.
5. DISCUSSION
As we demonstrate throughout the paper, inappropriate middle-
box policies have severe impact on application performance, mo-
bile device energy consumption, and network security. With all the
potential impact in mind, carriers should take the responsibility to
carefully avoid bad middlebox policies in their networks. Due to
some constraints ( e.g., cost and security), sometimes they have to
conﬁgure policies which may not be friendly to applications. How-
ever, working towards a neutral network environment, instead of
concealing those policies they should inform network users and ap-
plication developers on the middlebox policies and their associated
impact. Despite our focus on cellular network policies, our method-
ologies for inferring NA T and ﬁrewall policies and the identiﬁed
implications of such policies are also applicable to wired networks.
For example, time-dependent NA T mapping may also exist on the
Internet, and the new traversal scheme we proposed can be used to
traverse such NA Ts. Firewalls on the Internet may also buffer out-
of-order TCP packets, and the resulting bad interaction with TCP
extensions would still hold. We leave it as future work to monitor
those policies on the wired networks. We notice that some of the
bad policies are identiﬁed only in a few carriers, but our ﬁndings
are still valuable in preventing operators from falling into the same
pitfalls in the future. The measurement results could also change
over time as carriers modify the policies or upgrade their network
devices. In this case, our tool can still monitor such policy changes
in the long run.
6. RELATED WORK
We heavily draw on prior work on NA T characterization and
traversal. MacDonald et al. [27] deﬁned in an IETF draft a few
key attributes of NA T box, e.g., mapping, ﬁltering, and binding
time, as well as their corresponding tests. NUTSS [22] demon-
strated the feasibility of TCP NA T traversal through a combination
of tricks including port prediction, IP address spooﬁng, and TCP
packet forgery. Ford et al. [20] identiﬁed a few important properties
relevant to NA T traversal and measured them in the wild. In paral-
lel, Guha and Francis [21] tested nearly 100 commercial NA T boxes
and compared the effectiveness of several NA T traversal solutions.
Majority of the NA T boxes they studied exhibit predictability in
port allocation. Makinen and Nurminen [28] measured the NA T
properties from one vantage point in each of the six cellular net-
works. They suggested that the existing NA T traversal techniques
would work in cellular networks without modiﬁcations. In con-
trast, we discovered some previously unknown NA T properties not
handled by existing techniques and proposed new solutions accord-
ingly. Our focus is on cellular ISPs, and by releasing NetPiculet to
mobile users, we covered signiﬁcantly more carriers and users.
While providing security and ﬂexibility in IP address allocation,
middleboxes have been shown to have undesirable performance
impact on Internet users and content providers. They can inﬂate
transaction time, disrupt long-lived connections, and reduce TCP
throughput [13]. A follow-up study revealed that middleboxes may
also interfere with ECN negotiation, MTU discovery, and IP and
TCP options [29]. More recently, Casado and Freedman [17] inves-
tigated web clients behind middleboxes by injecting active content.
They ﬁnd most NA Ts cover a small number of hosts and their IP
addresses are stable over at least several days. They also devised a
suite of classiﬁers for detecting hosts behind middleboxes. In con-
trast, our work focuses on the middlebox behavior in cellular net-
works and reveals the implications on radio energy consumption, a
unique perspective in cellular network context.
Besides the characterization work focusing on the usage of mid-
dleboxes, several studies investigated various security issues in cel-
lular networks. Compared to their wired counterparts, cellular net-
works have relatively scarce network resource, making them vul-
nerable to various DoS attacks. Some attacks can be carried out by
exploiting the complex and heavy-weight procedure of establish-
ing a communication channel between a handset and the cellular
infrastructure. Serror et al. found the paging channel can be eas-
ily overloaded in CDMA networks [34], Traynor et al. proposed
attacks abusing the setup and teardown processes between mobile
devices and base stations in GPRS/EDGE networks et al. [36], and
Lee et al. showed well-timed trafﬁc can trigger excessive radio re-
source control messages [25]. Compared with these studies that
identiﬁed and exploited resource bottlenecks, our work sheds light
on the feasibility of such attacks in real cellular networks that are
protected by middleboxes. Moreover, we discovered some unex-
pected behavior of middleboxes, which can make cellular networks
and devices vulnerable.
The popularity of cellular data network has inspired a growing
number of measurement studies in this area as well. WindRider [8]
proposed to capture network neutrality violations by monitoring
application and system information on mobile devices. A previous
study [23] leveraging dataset from a deployed mobile application
compared the network and application performance of four major
U.S. cellular carriers with the inputs from over 30,000 mobile users.
Falaki [19] collected traces from 255 users and observed dramatic
diversity in their usage behaviors. Our work differs in its emphasis
on middlebox characteristics and implications on mobile users.
7. CONCLUSION
We have presented NetPiculet, the ﬁrst system that effectively
discovers cellular network policies focusing on NA T and ﬁrewall
policies. Beyond the known properties of such middleboxes, we
also focus on unique aspects of cellular networks as they impact
mobile devices, mobile application developers, and cellular ISPs
384

from perspectives of energy, performance, and security. Bas ed on
the data collected in January 2011, we studied more than 100 cellu-
lar networks around the world, illustrating how a diverse set of poli-
cies can lead to several important implications for network carriers
as well as mobile application developers. Results from NetPiculet
demonstrate the importance of understanding such policies espe-
cially due to potential complex and unexpected interaction among
various policy components. In the long run, NetPiculet is highly
valuable to help make cellular network policies less opaque and ex-
pose their impact as networks and applications continue to evolve.
8. REFERENCES
[1] Allot: Video streaming dominated mobile data trafﬁc in ﬁrst
half 2010. http://www.indiatelecomtracker.com/
archives/2669.
[2] Apple Push Notiﬁcation Service. http://en.wikipedia.
org/wiki/Apple_Push_Notification_Service.
[3] Building Push Applications for Android. http://dl.
google.com/googleio/2010/
android-push-applications-android.pdf .
[4] Cisco Mobile Exchange. http://docstore.mik.ua/
univercd/cc/td/doc/product/wireless/moblwrls/
cmx/mmg_sg/cmxdesc.htm.
[5] Fring. http://www.fring.com.
[6] Tango. http://tango.me.
[7] tcp(7) - Linux man page. http://linux.die.net/man/7/
tcp.
[8] WindRider: A Mobile Network Neutrality Monitoring
System. http://www.cs.northwestern.edu/~ict992/
mobile.htm.
[9] Cisco GGSN Release. http://www.cisco.com/en/US/
prod/collateral/iosswrel/ps8802/ps6947/ps5413/
prod_bulletin0900aecd802e0859.html, 2005.
[10] TCP Out-of-Order Packet Support for Cisco IOS Firewall
and Cisco IOS IPS. http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/
ios/12_4t/12_4t11/ht_ooop.html, 2006.
[11] Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting packet based services and Packet Data
Networks (PDN). 3GPP TS 29.061 V6.15.0, 2008.
[12] Improving TCP’s Robustness to Blind In-Window Attacks.
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5961, 2010.
[13] M. Allman. On the Performance of Middleboxes. In Proc.
ACM SIGCOMM IMC, 2003.
[14] R. Beverly, A. Berger, Y . Hyun, and k claffy. Understanding
the Efﬁcacy of Deployed Internet Source Address V alidation
Filtering. In Proc. ACM SIGCOMM IMC, 2009.
[15] A. Biggadike, D. Ferullo, G. Wilson, and A. Perrig.
NA TBLASTER: Establishing TCP Connections Between
Hosts Behind NA Ts. InProc. of ACM SIGCOMM ASIA
W orkshop, 2005.
[16] Z. Cao, Z. Wang, and E. Zegura. Performance of
HashingnBased Schemes for Internet Load Balancing. In
INFOCOM, 2000.
[17] M. Casado and M. J. Freedman. Peering through the shroud:
The effect of edge opacity on IP-based client identiﬁcation.
In Proc. Symposium on Networked Systems Design and
Implementation, 2007.
[18] J. L. Eppinger. TCP Connections for P2P Apps: A Software
Approach to Solving the NA T Problem. http://
reports-archive.adm.cs.cmu.edu/anon/isri2005/
CMU-ISRI-05-104.pdf .
[19] H. Falaki, R. Mahajan, S. Kandula, D. Lymberopoulos,
R. Govindan, and D. Estrin. Diversity in Smartphone Usage.
In Proc. ACM MOBISYS, 2010.
[20] B. Ford, P . Srisuresh, and D. Kegel. Peer-to-Peer
Communication Across Network Address Translators. In
Proc. of the USENIX Annual Technical Conference, 2005.
[21] S. Guha and P . Francis. Characterization and Measurement
of TCP Traversal through NA Ts and Firewalls. In Proc. ACM
SIGCOMM IMC, 2005.
[22] S. Guha, Y . Takeda, and P . Francis. NUTSS: A SIP-based
Approach to UDP and TCP Network Connectivity. In Proc.
of SIGCOMM’04 W orkshop, 2004.
[23] J. Huang, Q. Xu, B. Tiwana, Z. M. Mao, M. Zhang, and
P . Bahl. Anatomizing Application Performance Differences
on Smartphones. In Proc. ACM MOBISYS, 2010.
[24] V . Jacobson, R. Braden, and D. Borman. TCP Extensions for
High Performance. http://tools.ietf.org/html/
rfc1323, 1992.
[25] P . P . Lee, T. Bu, and T. Woo. On the Detection of Signaling
DoS Attacks on 3G Wireless Networks. In Proc. IEEE
INFOCOM, 2007.
[26] P . P . C. Lee, T. Bu, and T. Woo. On the Detection of
Signaling DoS Attacks on 3G Wireless Networks. In Proc.
IEEE INFOCOM, 2007.
[27] D. MacDonald and B. Lowekamp. NA T Behavior Discovery
Using STUN. http://tools.ietf.org/html/
draft-ietf-behave-nat-behavior-discovery-08 .
[28] L. Makinen and J. K. Nurminen. Measurements on the
Feasibility of TCP NA T Traversal in Cellular Networks. In
Proc. of the 4th EURO-NGI Conference on Next Generation
Internet Networks, 2008.
[29] A. Medina, M. Allman, and S. Floyd. Measuring Interactions
Between Transport Protocols and Middleboxes. In Proc.
ACM SIGCOMM IMC, 2004.
[30] P . Porras, H. Saidi, and V . Yegneswaran. An Analysis of the
iKee.B iPhone Botnet. In Proc. of International ICST
Conference on Security and Privacy in Mobile Information
and Communication Systems, 2010.
[31] F. Qian, Z. Wang, A. Gerber, Z. M. Mao, S. Sen, and
O. Spatscheck. Characterizing Radio Resource Allocation
for 3G Networks. In Proc. ACM SIGCOMM IMC, 2010.
[32] R. Racic, D. Ma, and H. Chen. Exploiting mms
vulnerabilities to stealthily exhaust mobile phone’s battery.
In Proc. of SecureComm, 2006.
[33] P . Sarolahti and M. Kojo. Forward RTO-Recovery (F-RTO):
An Algorithm for Detecting Spurious Retransmission
Timeouts with TCP and the Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP). http://tools.ietf.org/html/
rfc4138, 2005.
[34] J. Serror. Impact of paging channel overloads or attacks on a
cellular network. In Proceedings of the 5th ACM workshop
on Wireless security, WiSe, 2006.
[35] U. Shankar and V . Paxson. Active Mapping: Resisting NIDS
Evasion Without Altering Trafﬁc. In Proc. IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy , 2003.
[36] P . Traynor, P . McDaniel, and T. La Porta. On Attack
Causality in Internet-connected Cellular Networks. In Proc.
of 16th USENIX Security Symposium , 2007.
385