An Empirical Analysis of the Nostr Social Network:
Decentralization, Availability, and Replication Overhead
YILUO WEI,The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou), China
GARETH TYSON,The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou), China
Nostr is a decentralized social network launched in 2022, emphasizing high availability and censorship
resistance. Since launching, it has gained substantial attention, boasting over 100 million posts. From a
user’s perspective, it is similar to a micro-blogging service like Twitter. However, the underlying systems
infrastructure is very different, and Nostr boasts a range of unique features that set it apart. Nostr introduces
the concept of relays, which act as open storage servers that receive, store, and distribute user posts. Each
user is uniquely identified by a public key, ensuring authenticity of posts through digital signatures. Users
are able to securely replicate and retrieve posts through multiple relays, which frees them from single-server
reliance and enhances post availability, thereby attempting to make Nostr censorship resistant. However, this
aggressive design also presents challenges, such as the overhead required for extensive post replication and
the difficulty in obtaining a global view of post replication locations, which remain unexplored or unaddressed.
This necessitates a thorough understanding of the Nostr ecosystem; therefore, we conduct the first large-scale
study on this topic. Our study focuses on two key aspects: Nostr relays and post replication strategies. We find
that Nostr achieves superior decentralization compared to traditional Fediverse applications. However, relay
availability remains a challenge, where financial sustainability (particularly for free-to-use relays) emerges as
a contributing factor. We also find that the replication of posts across relays enhances censorship-resistance
but introduces significant overhead. To address this, we propose two improvements: one to control the number
of post replications, and another to reduce the overhead during post retrieval. Via a data-driven evaluation,
we demonstrate their ability to reduce overhead without negatively impacting post availability under the
simulated scenarios.
CCS Concepts:•Networks→Network measurement.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Nostr, Social Network, Decentralization, Measurement, Censorship
1 Introduction
Censorship resistance is a major research topic. Numerous approaches have been proposed [25],
including refraction networking [ 8], censorship-resistant CDNs [ 50], packet manipulators [ 6],
and WebRTC-based tools [5, 7, 14]. Recently, censorship resistance in social media platforms has
garnered particular attention [21, 42]. This has been driven by the monopolistic nature of traditional
online social media platforms (such as Facebook and Twitter/X), which has given them significant
control over permissible activities, raising growing concerns about censorship and freedom of
speech [15, 41].
Consequently, there has been a growing movement of technologists and researchers working on
decentralized social networks that aim to foster increased transparency, openness, and democracy.
The “Fediverse”, composed of server-based federated services, such as Mastodon, rank among the
most widely used applications for decentralized social networks [49]. These platforms deconstruct
their service offerings into independent servers (instances) that anyone can easily setup. In the
simplest scenario, these instances permit users to register and interact locally. However, they
also enable cross-instance interaction (i.e.,federation). This distributed structure offers numerous
benefits. For instance, it provides more transparent data ownership, and potentially enhances the
overall system’s resilience against technical or legal attack.
Despite the benefits, these platforms suffer from key limitations [19, 39]. User identities are tied
to a single server controlled by an administrator. Thus, instance owners can ban users (just as
Twitter/X can), delete content, and even block other servers, thereby imposing censorship. Perhaps
more problematic is that there are no clear incentives for running these servers. Consequently, it
arXiv:2402.05709v2  [cs.SI]  29 Sep 2025

2 Yiluo Wei and Gareth Tyson
can be challenging for part-time enthusiasts to resource such activities. For example, a recent study
found that 11% of instances are inaccessible for more than half of their lifespan [39]. This situation
puts users at the mercy of a single administrator’s personal preferences, which sometimes have
been more oppressive than large corporations like Twitter/X [40].
To address the limitations of the Fediverse, a fundamentally different decentralized web platform
was launched in 2022, receiving significant financial backing from Jack Dorsey:Nostr(Notes and
Other Stuff Transmitted by Relays) [31]. From a user’s perspective, Nostr exhibits similar functions
to a micro-blogging service like Twitter/X, although the actual implementation differs substantially.
Nostr is a decentralized system that is built on a series of open protocols capable of establishing a
global social network in a way that detaches users from any specific server. Publicly, Nostr states
that this approach is designed with one key requirement in-mind: attaining censorship resistance
against administrators removing content or blocking specific users.
The core innovation is the introduction ofrelays, which operate as open storage servers, loosely
akin to the server instances in the Fediverse. Their only responsibility is to receive posts from users,
store them, and distribute them to others upon request. However, unlike in the Fediverse, a relay
doesnotcommunicate with other relays; it interacts solely with users. Further, users can push posts
to any (including multiple) relays, thereby decoupling the fixed association between a user and an
individual server. Thus, even if individual relays censors content (or simply fail), the posts remain
live. Note, this may also offer greater censorship resistance against other forms of censorship
(e.g.,state-level firewalls), but Nostr does not explicitly strive to address such scenarios. To ensure
integrity, each user is uniquely identified by a public key, and each message is digitally signed. These
unique features have garnered significant attention from users, and fostered numerous applications
built atop of Nostr. To date, the Nostr ecosystem encompasses more than 600 active relays [37],
more than 9 million users (with a profile and contact list), and 100 million posts [36].
As the Nostr ecosystem continues to grow, we argue that it is crucial to better understand its
characteristics and the associated challenges. We are particularly curious about whether Nostr
encounters similar resilience challenges to that of the Fediverse, such as poor relay (instance)
availability, post availability, and the natural tendency towards centralization [39]. Critically, we
wish to test how effectively Nostr achieves the goal of censorship resistance, and if this comes at
the cost of high overhead. For example, the replication of posts may significantly increase storage
overhead and relay-to-user communication costs. To date, these challenges are not understood and
we lack any deterministic solutions.
With this in mind, we present the first large-scale study of the Nostr ecosystem. We assemble a
dataset of 17.8 million posts, 1.5 million unique pubkeys (users), and 712 relays, spanning the time
period from2023-07-01to2023-12-31. Using this dataset, we focus on two key aspects.
First, we study Nostr from the perspective ofrelays, inspecting their availability, reliability,
and the degree of decentralization. Through the relay-based paradigm, we show that Nostr has
accomplished significantly greater decentralization compared to prior Fediverse applications (§4.1,
§4.2). The users and posts are highly distributed across the relays, attaining significant censorship
resilience. Most (93%) posts can be found in multiple relays, with 178 relays (25%) individually
hosting a significant proportion (more than 5%) of global posts. The relays are distributed over 44
countries and 151 autonomous systems (ASes). Thus, no single country or autonomous system hosts
more than 25% of the relays, and the majority have only 1 or 2 relays each, making censorship attacks
far more difficult. However, we find that the unstable availability of relays is still a challenge (§4.3).
We show that 20% of the relays experience downtime for more than 40% of the measurement period.
Further investigation suggests that financial sustainability may be a key reason for this, especially
for free-to-use relays (§4.4). Although Nostr offers support for user donation, our estimates shows
95% of the free-to-use relays cannot cover their operational cost from this alone.

An Empirical Analysis of the Nostr Social Network: Decentralization, Availability, and Replication Overhead 3
We next focus on the replication and availability ofposts. A unique innovation of Nostr is the
ability to push posts across multiple relays. This, however, imposes a trade-off between improved
post availability (i.e.,censorship resistance) and lower replication overhead. We show that post
availability on Nostr significantly surpasses that of Fediverse applications: even when the top 30
relays with the highest number of users or posts are down, over 90% of the posts remain accessible
(§5.2). Initially, this suggests that Nostr has accomplished its core anti-censorship and resilience
goal. However, the overhead of post replications is large. We find 616M post replications for
17.8M posts. This means, on average, a post is replicated across 34.6 relays (§5.1, §5.3). Another
challenge stemming from post replications is that, due to the Nostr protocol design, in many cases,
users must retrieve the same post multiple times from different relays. Indeed, our evaluation
indicates that 98.2% of these retrievals are redundant, leading to extremely wasteful consumption
of bandwidth (§5.4).
These results motivate us to study if it is possible to reduce the overhead of post replications.
Consequently, we propose a new feature in post publications for Nostr clients (§6.1) that auto-
matically limits the number of replications and strategically selects relays for these replications.
Our evaluation demonstrates that this feature can effectively reduce 380 million (61.7%) post repli-
cations while preserving the same level of post availability and censorship resistance under the
simulated scenarios of relay-level and AS-level failures. Moreover, we propose another feature in
post retrieval for Nostr clients (§6.2) to minimize wasted bandwidth by optimistically querying only
a subset of known relays. According to our evaluation, this feature effectively decreases wasteful
retrievals by 93%, while ensuring that 99.4% of the posts can be retrieved. This paper makes three
key contributions:
(1) We perform the first large-scale systems study of the Nostr ecosystem, covering 17.8 million
posts, 616 million post replications, 1.5 million users, and 712 relays.
(2) We confirm that Nostr achieves high content availability, making censorship extremely difficult.
However, while we highlight that Nostr is more decentralized with improved post availability
and censorship resistance, we show that it comes with significant overhead.
(3) In response, we propose two design improvements: One aims to control the number of post
replicas, and one aims to minimize the overhead during post retrieval. We show that in our
data-driven simulation scenarios, they are effective without causing negative impact on the
censorship resistance.
2 Nostr Primer
Nostr Overview.Nostr is a decentralized social networking system built on a series of open
protocols. From a user’s perspective, it can be seen as a micro-blogging service similar to Twitter/X
or Mastodon. However, the underlying architecture is very different. Nostr is composed of two key
elements:relaysandclients. A relay operates as a server, receiving messages from certain users
and forwarding them to others (upon request) in an asynchronous manner. Users interact with
relays, sending and receiving messages through a client. This client can be any application (mobile,
desktop, web) that implements the Nostr client protocol.
Any individual can operate a relay, akin to the Fediverse where anyone can set up an instance.
Similarly, end users can select any client implementation, or even build their own compatible client.
For context, Figure 11 in the Appendix offers the screenshots of two Nostr clients. When using these
clients, a user can create a post, which is then pushed to the relays of their choice. Similarly, the
clients can connect to relays to download posts. Further details about this process are provided in
the following paragraphs. The design aims to achieve strong censorship resistance by distributing
post replications across multiple relays. This makes it difficult for attacks or failures to affect all

4 Yiluo Wei and Gareth Tyson
relays simultaneously. As long as at least one relay continues to host the post, it remains available,
thereby ensuring censorship resistance.
User Account.To begin, the user needs an account, which is a public key independent from any
relay. Nostr utilizes asymmetric encryption, identifying each user by their respective public key.
The user generates a key pair and provides it to the client to facilitate interactions with relays.
Crucially, as long as the user maintains their private key, they have ultimate ownership of the
account, unlike platforms like Twitter/X or Mastodon where the account can be manipulated or
deleted by system admins. This flexibility also enables the user to seamlessly switch between relays
while maintaining the same account. This makes it notably different to prior platforms, which
retain ultimate account ownership.
Event.Theeventis defined as a specific JSON schema, which serves as the fundamental data
structure for data transmission in Nostr. Nostr then defines various kinds of events for different
purposes, such as user profiles (kind-0), posts (kind-1), following listsi.e.,lists of other users
followed by the user (kind-3). A post (kind-1) is the core and most common event, functioning
similarly to a tweet on Twitter/X. Together, these events facilitate the operation of a social network.
More details can be found in the protocol specification [32].
Relay Selection.To publish and retrieve within the Nostr ecosystem, the user needs to select a set
of relays to use. For this, the client maintains a relay list which is configurable by the user. The
client connects to all relays in this list for publishing and retrieving posts. Users can find relays
to add to the list through three main methods: (i) the client comes with a default list of relays;
(ii) the client identifies relays from a relay index website (e.g., nostr.watch); or (iii) other users
recommend relays within the user profile or through a specific Nostr event (kind-10002).
Connecting to Relays.Nostr uses WebSockets [ 47] to connect to relays. The Nostr protocol
dictates that clients should initiate a single WebSocket connection to each relay and employ it for
all forms of communication with this relay.
Sending to Relays.To send an event to relays, the user crafts the content, then uses the client to
create and sign the event with their private key before dispatching it to the relays. The user can
publish events to multiple relays of their choice. The relays store the event and, when requested,
forward it to other users. Importantly, the event’s authenticity is verified through its signature,
eliminating the need to trust the relay.
Receiving from Relays.To receive posts from a relay, the client must create asubscriptionand
send it to the relays. Each subscription includes a filter that specifies the kinds of events the client
wishes to receive. The relay then forwards the desired events to the client. For instance, if user𝐹
follows user𝐴,𝐹’s client will create a subscription with a filter for𝐴’s recent events. Thus, client𝐹
will then connect to the relay and upload the filter. The relays will then forward𝐴’s events to the
client and continue to forward new events from𝐴once they are received.
Zaps.Zaps function as monetary tips that one user can send to another, which is also used to fund
relays. A user can opt to link their account with a Bitcoin wallet address, thereby enabling them to
send or receive Bitcoins in the form of zaps. A successful zap transaction results in the publication
of a zap receipt within the relays as a kind-9735 event. More details can be found in [34].
3 Dataset
We focus on two key aspects of the Nostr ecosystem: relays and post replications across relays. To
measure these, we gather two datasets. The first is the Nostr relay dataset, which includes general
information, deployment, and availability data of the relays. The second is the event dataset, which

An Empirical Analysis of the Nostr Social Network: Decentralization, Availability, and Replication Overhead 5
contains the events in the relays. This dataset helps us gauge the scale and popularity of the relays,
as well as measure post replications and availability. See §A.1 for an ethics discussion.
3.1 Relay Dataset
Relay Selection.We begin by compiling a list of relay URLs and IP addresses from thenostr.watch
website which is widely utilized within the Nostr ecosystem. It maintains a comprehensive index of
relays around the world by implementing Nostr’s relay discovery and monitoring protocol [35]. We
extract the relays from this site on a daily basis from2023-07-01 to 2023-12-31. We collect the list
of 911 relays that have been online at least once during this period. We successfully retrieve event
data from 712 of them. We cannot obtain event data from the remaining 199 relays due to three
reasons: (i) some relays (58%) have no events published, indicating that they are either not actively
used or solely set up for testing purposes; (ii) certain relays (41%) remain online for only a short
period before going constantly offline; and (iii) some relays (1%) require payment for accessing
their data. Consequently, all analyses conducted in this study exclude these relays from which we
cannot obtain event data.
Relay Information.Relays provide server metadata (a relay information document) to clients.
This document provides clients with information on server capabilities, administrative contacts,
and various server attributes, such as content limitations, community preference, and payment
information. We provide an example relay information document in Appendix A.3, and more details
can be found in the protocol specification [ 33]. This information also allows us to separate the
relays into free relays and paid relays. In the case of a paid relay, users are required to pay a certain
amount of bitcoin. While most paid relays only charge for posting to the relay, a small number
charge for reading (we exclude them because we cannot crawl them). Of the 712 relays in our
dataset, 625 are free and 87 are paid.
Autonomous Systems.We then query IP-API [22] with the IP address of the relay to get the AS
hosting the relay, as well as the geographical location (country) of the relay server.
Relay A vailability.To monitor the availability of relays, we utilize the feature provided by
nostr.watch. The nostr.watch website conducts frequent periodic measurement to test the
availability of the relays. Every 15 minutes, we take a snapshot of the availability status of relays
reported by nostr.watch. Our monitoring period is from 2023-10-01 to 2023-12-31. This allows
us to map the exact downtime of each relay.
3.2 Event Dataset
Event Collection.We connect to each relay in our dataset to gather the posts, users and zap
related events. We divide the collection process into several parallelized jobs and distributes the
workload evenly across the relays, preventing any single relay from being overwhelmed.
Posts.As described in §2, a post is a kind-1 event in Nostr, which is roughly equivalent to a tweet
on Twitter/X. However, in contrast to Twitter/X, we emphasize that posts can be replicated across
multiple relays (but is identified by a unique ID). Thus, we regard each unique ID as an individual
post and record the relays in which it is replicated. We crawl 712 relays for the time period from
2023-07-01to2023-12-31, and get a total of 17,851,871 Posts.
Users.Each unique pubkey represents an individual user. We follow this convention throughout the
remainder of the paper. We identify active users who have posted at least once between2023-07-01
and 2023-12-31 from our posts dataset. We obtain 1,558,891 unique pubkeys in total. Subsequently,
we construct the user dataset by querying the relays for user profiles (kind-0 event) and the user’s
following list (kind-3 event) using the obtained public keys.

6 Yiluo Wei and Gareth Tyson
Zaps.To investigate the financial incentives of operating a relay, we collect kind-9735 events
associated with the account of relay operators, which is used for the zap transactions as described
in §2. We crawl the relays for the time period from 2023-07-01 to 2023-12-31, and get a total of
252,905 zap transactions, with the amount summed up to be 305,427,302 Satoshi (1 Bitcoin = 100
million Satoshi). During the measurement period, it is roughly 137,000 USD.
Other Events.Note, there are other kinds of events serving different purposes. We do not to collect
these, as some kinds are only visible to specific users (such as direct messages or group chats) and
others are specified by more advanced extensions of the Nostr protocol, and not all relays have
implemented these features. Since our measurement focuses on the overall Nostr ecosystem, we
exclude these specific event kinds from our analysis.
4 Characterizing Nostr Relays
Nostr is designed to achieve censorship resistance by distributing post replicas across multiple
relays, making it difficult for attacks or failures to occur simultaneously on all relays. Thus, in this
section, we focus on the properties of the Nostr relays. There are several crucial points must be
considered to ensure effective censorship resistance: (i) Are the posts distributed to a sufficiently
large number of relays to remain robust? (ii) How are these posts distributed across ASes and
countries, and is this robust to single points of failure? (iii) How reliable are the collection of relays,
hosting each individual post? (iv) What is the cost of relay operation, and is it sustainable?
4.1 Distribution of Posts & Users
0.56% 56%
Number of Posts (%)
101 103 105 107
Number of Posts
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0CDF
0.064% 6.4%
Number of Users (%)
101 103 105
Number of Users
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0CDF
Fig. 1. (a) Distribution & CDF of the number of posts
in a relay; (b) Distribution & CDF of the number of
users in a relay.
We first evaluate the degree of decentralization
within Nostr at the relay level. This gives an
idea of how susceptible posts are to specific
takedown attacks. To do this, we inspect the
distribution of posts and users across the re-
lays,i.e.,the number of posts in the relay and
the number of users using the relay. We de-
fine a user is using a relay if they have at least
one post in the relay. Previous research has
highlighted user-centralization and content-
centralization problems in the Fediverse [39],i.e.,a small number of instances host the vast majority
of posts and users. While we aim to determine if these findings also apply to Nostr, we also note a
vital difference: in Nostr, a user and a post can exist in multiple relays. We posit this uniqueness
may result in distinctive characteristics.
Distribution of Posts & Users.Figure 1a illustrates the distribution and cumulative distribution
function (CDF) of the number of posts in a relay. We observe that the top relay hosts 73% of the
posts. At first glance, this may suggest a highly centralized system. However, it is important to
consider that a post can exist in multiple relays. Taking this into account, the result reveals that,
although 178 relays (25%) host a significant proportion (more than 5.6%) of the posts, the sum of
these proportions is far larger than 100% — on average, each post is replicated 34.6 times. This
confirms that posts are extensively replicated across multiple relays. This could be viewed as a
decentralized backup of posts, serving to mitigate the risk of failure or censorship in a single relay.
Therefore, the result stands as a favorable signal of decentralization. We also note that this result
can be biased if there is a heavy-tailed distribution, where a few posts are heavily replicated while
most are not. However, we later confirm that this is not the case in §5.1, where the results are
plotted in Figure 6.

An Empirical Analysis of the Nostr Social Network: Decentralization, Availability, and Replication Overhead 7
0 20% 40% 60% 80%
South Africa
Iceland
Sweden
South Korea
Switzerland
Japan
Singapore
Finland
Netherlands
France
United Kingdom
Poland
Germany
Canada
United States
Relays
Posts
Users
0 20% 40% 60% 80%
Microsoft Corporation
Choopa
AT&T Services, Inc.
Contabo GmbH
Amazon Technologies Inc.
OVH SAS
Oracle Corporation
The Constant Company
Google LLC
Amazon.com, Inc.
Akamai Technologies, Inc.
Nubes, LLC
DigitalOcean, LLC
Hetzner Online GmbH
Cloudflare, Inc.
Relays
Posts
Users
Fig. 2. Percentage of relays, posts, and users in the top 15 regions and ASes, ranked by number of relays.
Figure 1b illustrates the distribution of the number of users in a relay. We observe a similar
distribution to the distribution of posts. This suggests that users are actively utilizing multiple
relays for publishing (and likely retrieving) posts. Once again, this highlights Nostr’s distinctive
feature of detaching users from specific servers, mitigating the risk of censorship.
Overall, the distribution patterns of posts and users demonstrates the effective decentralization
at the relay level. Unlike the Fediverse, we do not find evidence for excessive user-centralization or
post-centralization at the relay level in Nostr.
4.2 Relay Hosting
0 20% 40% 60% 80%
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0CDF
Country
Relays
Posts
Users
0 20% 40% 60% 80%
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0CDF
AS
Relays
Posts
Users
Fig. 3. CDF of the percentage of relays, posts, and users
in (a) the countries; (b) the ASes. The x-axis begins with
a near-zero number but not 0, since relays of no posts
are already excluded as described in §3.1.
We next evaluate the degree of decentraliza-
tion of Nostr at the country and autonomous
systems (AS) level. Spreading posts across mul-
tiple country and AS level jurisdictions is vital
for delivering on Nostr’s censorship resistance
goals, to prevent all administrators within a ju-
risdiction being forced to remove content. Like
instances in the Fediverse, relays in Nostr fol-
low a bottom-up approach, where administra-
tors have the autonomy to choose where to host their relays. Prior work revealed that there is
infrastructure-centralization in the Fediverse [39]. That is, the hosting of instances and posts are
centralized in a few countries and Autonomous Systems (ASes). Thus, we hypothesize that Nostr
may encounter similar challenges, whereby the majority of relays fall under the remit of a small
number of countries or ASes, making them vulnerable to regional or network-level failure and
censorship attacks. To test this, we investigate the hosting of relays in Nostr to see if relays, posts
or users are overly centralized in certain locations.
Countries.Figure 3a displays the CDF of the percentage of relays, hosted posts, and users in
different countries. Additionally, Figure 2a illustrates the percentage of relays, hosted posts, and
users for the top 15 countries ranked by the number of relays. In stark contrast to the Fediverse,
we observe that the distribution of relays is quite decentralized, with around 52% of countries
having fewer than two relays. That said, upon closer inspection, we see that users and posts are
concentrated in the top countries, such as the US, which hosts 85% of posts and 30% of users.
Nonetheless, it is crucial to recall that, unlike Fediverse instances, a post and a user can belong
to multiple relays, which creates backups that will persist even if some relays censor or fail. As a
result, most of the top 15 countries host at least 20% of the posts, and Canada, France, Germany, and
Finland host more than 40%. This distribution is actually a positive indicator of decentralization, as
it suggests that a significant portion of Nostr posts and users are spread across different countries.

8 Yiluo Wei and Gareth Tyson
0 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Uptime (%)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0CDF
Overall
Free
Paid
Alive
102 103 104 105
Outage Duration (Minutes)
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0CDF
Overall
Free
Paid
102 103 104 105
Outage Duration (Minutes)
0.6
0.8
1.0CDF
Num. of Posts
< 100
100 - 10k
10k - 1M
> 1M
101 103 105 107
Count
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0CDF
Satoshi
Transaction
Zapper
Fig. 4. (a) CDF of the percentage of uptime for free, paid, alive, and all relays; (b) CDF of the outage duration
for free, paid, and all relays; (c) CDF of the outage duration for relays with different number of posts; (d) CDF
of the count of zapped Satoshi (amount of zap), zap transactions and zappers for relays.
This outcome appears to be more favorable compared to Mastodon, where a prior study revealed
that 89.1% of all toots were concentrated on instances in Japan, the US, and France [39].
ASes.Figure 3b displays the CDF of the percentage of relays, posts, and users available via different
ASes.1 Additionally, Figure 2b illustrates the percentage of relays, posts, and users for the top 15
ASes ranked by the number of relays. We observe a similar trend to countries, as the distribution of
relays across ASes is also surprisingly decentralized: 64% of ASes host only one relay. As shown in
Figure 2b, among the top 15 ASes, all of them host more than 15% of the posts. Once again, this
serves as a positive indicator of decentralization and offers greater protection to AS-level censorship
attacks, whereby a given AS could shutdown entire sets of relays.
Note, this distribution also contrasts significantly with the findings in the Fediverse. According
to [39], toots and users in Mastodon were primarily centralized around just three major ASes,
as administrators were naturally drawn to well-known and cost-effective cloud providers. One
possible explanation for this disparity is that Nostr relays are typically more lightweight than
Fediverse instances, requiring fewer computational resources. Consequently, administrators may
find better pricing options from smaller providers rather than relying on major providers like AWS.
4.3 Relay Availability
Recall, the main design purpose behind Nostr’s greater decentralization is superior availability
and resilience to censorship. Thus, we next explore the availability properties of the relays. In
this context, availability refers to the ability to establish a connection with the relay. Similar to
Fediverse instances, we posit that the voluntary nature of certain relay operations might lead to
unique availability characteristics.
Relay A vailability.Based on the relay dataset described in §3, we calculate the uptime of relays
from 2023-10-01 to 2023-12-31. The CDF of the uptime percentage is presented in Figure 4a.
From the figure, we observe that the availability of some relays is relatively good, with 50% of the
relays being available for more than 99% of the specified time period. However, there are also some
relays with extremely poor availability. Approximately 20% of the relays experience downtime
for more than 40% of the time. However, further investigation reveals that most of these relays
are offline for extended periods and do not even reactivate by the end of our measurements. We
therefore define relays that have been offline for more than a week and remain so at the end of
our measurements asdead. In total, we identify 132 dead relays. When removing these dead relays
from the analysis, as shown by the red line in Figure 4a, the availability of improves significantly,
with 90% of the relays being operational for more than 80% of the time.
Overall, this finding confirms that relay failures are relatively common in Nostr. This broadly
aligns with that observed in the Fediverse [ 39] (although the most significant failures can be
1We note that some ASes listed could be Content Delivery Networks (CDNs), who do not directly host the posts themselves.
We are unable to identify the specific servers behind these CDNs as currently there is no reliable approach to do so.

An Empirical Analysis of the Nostr Social Network: Decentralization, Availability, and Replication Overhead 9
attributed to dead relays). However, fortunately, in Nostr, users have the flexibility to switch
between relays easily. As a result, the impact of relay unavailability in Nostr may not be as severe
as in instance unavailability in Fediverse.
Outage Duration.We next investigate the outage duration. For each outage, we compute its
duration and plot the CDF in Figure 4b and 4c . We do not exclude dead relays in this analysis,
as dead relays can be considered as relays with a long outage duration. First, we compare free
and paid relays to determine if paid relays also exhibit better performance in terms of shorter
outage duration. Interestingly, we find that the outage durations for paid and free relays are nearly
identical, as depicted in Figure 4b. The majority of outages (56%) last for less than 15 minutes.
However, there is also a long tail, with 10% of the outages lasting for more than 100 minutes.
Next, we group the relays based on the number of posts to observe if the scale of the relays
correlates with the outage duration. As shown in Figure 4c, we notice that larger relays perform
better, particularly in the tail end. For the group of relays with over 1 million posts, only 1% of
the outages last for more than 1000 minutes, whereas the corresponding figure for the group of
relays with less than 100 posts is 88%. This finding suggests that although the downtime may be
similar, the outage durations for larger relays are shorter. This implies that while the availability
of larger relays may not be consistently stable, it is unlikely for them to experience prolonged
outages lasting several hours. On the other hand, relays that remain operational more consistently
are therefore more likely to have posts successfully pushed to them. Thus, they tend to accumulate
more posts.
4.4 Relay Incomes
One of the challenges within the Fediverse is the cost of running instances, coupled with a lack of
incentives for doing so [1]. This is also one reason why some instances have low availability, with
some even being abandoned and subsequently closed. This issue also applies to Nostr, as the lack
of financial income may lead to a poor availability of certain relays and the system may become
centralized around well-resourced individuals (who do not require financial support). Therefore,
we examine the possible incomes of the relays, and importantly, whether the income generated
is sufficient to cover operational costs, and thus to keep the decentralized operation of the Nostr
ecosystem. We argue that this is key to relay availability and therefore censorship resistance, as a
lack of money could result in relays shutting down.
Paid Relays.One direct source of revenue is the admission fee for paid relays. This fee is a
one-time cost for users to publish to the relay. We find that the admission fee is relatively low for
some of the relays, with 35% charging less than 1k Satoshi (approximately $0.45 USD). We argue
that this minimal fee makes it challenging to sustain the relay’s operation. This implies that, for
these relays, the primary purpose of the admission fee is to act as a barrier, allowing only genuine
users while keeping spammers out, rather than generating profits. On the other hand, there are
also relays that impose a higher admission fee, with 15% of relays charging more than 10k Satoshi
(approximately $45 USD). This higher fee may potentially help in covering the expenses associated
with operating the relay. We explore this in the subsequent paragraphs.
Zaps.Another available revenue stream is through zaps sent by users to relay administrators. To
estimate this, we analyze the zap transactions to the public keys specified in relay information. If
no public key is provided in the relay information, we consider the zap income as zero. Figure 4d
shows the CDF of the total zap amount (note that 52% of the transactions do not disclose the zap
amount publicly), count of zap transactions, and zappers. We find that the majority (64%) of relays
do not receive any zaps. Among the remaining relays, some of them do receive a relatively high

10 Yiluo Wei and Gareth Tyson
number of zap transactions, with the 90th percentile at 471. However, the zap amount itself is not
substantial, with the 90th percentile receiving a total of 150k Satoshi (approximately 67 USD).
0 0.45 4.5 45 4504500
Estimated 6-month Income in USD
0100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108
Estimated 6-month Income (Satoshi)
101
103
105
Number of Users
Free Relay
Paid Relay
Estimated Cost
Fig. 5. Number of usersvs.the estimated 6-month
income of free and paid relays. The green line is
the estimated 6-month cost of running a relay.
Enough to Cover the Cost?We finally assess
whether the income generated is sufficient to cover
operational costs. For this, we estimate the 6-month
income (2023-07-01 to 2023-12-31) of relays. To
achieve this, we first calculate the zap amount for
the relays. Then, for paid relays, we add the product
of the admission fee and the number of active users.
For relays operational for less than 6 months, we
calculate the daily average income and multiply it
by 184 to estimate the income for the 6-month pe-
riod. Figure 5 illustrates the estimated incomevs.the
number of users as a representation of the relay’s
scale (See Appendix A.4 for figures with different
Bitcoin prices). The green line roughly estimates the cost of operating a relay based on the cost of
running a Mastodon instance of similar size, as listed in [30].
It is evident that, barring a few outliers, most of the free relays with more than 10 users are
unable to cover their operating costs. However, most paid relays of medium scale (with 50 – 1k
users) are able to cover their operational costs. This constitutes a key threat to long-term viability.
It is therefore necessary for relays to obtain additional revenue (often donated by the voluntary
administrator). The trend shown in the figure is significant in terms of magnitude. Therefore, the
conclusion remains valid, even though there may be some errors due to transactions not publicly
disclosing the zap amount and the accuracy of estimating the operational cost based on Mastodon.
This result suggests that, akin to the Fediverse, most Nostr relays are operated by enthusiasts
without clear financial incentives. The number of dead relays and the lower availability of free
relays revealed in §4.3 may be a consequence of this situation. However, the observed difference in
uptime between paid and free relays (§4.3) is not as stark as this financial disparity might suggest.
This implies that non-monetary factors, such as hobbyist enthusiasm and the relative operational
simplicity of the Nostr software, could also be drivers of reliability. Consequently, while financial
unsustainability is a threat to the long-term existence of free relays, our current data does not
support a strong causal link between a relay’s payment model and its day-to-day uptime.
Takeaways:(i) Nostr achieves greater decentralization than previous Fediverse applications, with posts
replicated across multiple relays in 44 countries and 151 autonomous systems, confirming high censorship
resistance. (ii) Unstable availability of relays is still a challenge for Nostr, akin to Fediverse applications.
(iii) Financial sustainability might be a complicating factor in relay availability issues, as most Nostr relays
are operated by enthusiasts without clear financial incentives to support the operational cost.
5 Post Availability & Replication
In §4.3, we find that certain relays (including the larger ones hosting over 1 million posts) experience
periods of downtime. However, one of the key design innovations of Nostr is that the posts can
be replicated across multiple relays, so that the availability of posts will not be significantly
impacted by censorship or failures on a few relays. Indeed, in §4.1 and §4.2, we find many posts
are replicated across multiple relays, ASes, and countries. Thus, we next evaluate the effectiveness
of this replication design innovation in enhancing post availability and censorship resistance,
alongside the overhead associated.

An Empirical Analysis of the Nostr Social Network: Decentralization, Availability, and Replication Overhead 11
5.1 Number of Post Replications
0 100 200 300
Available in X Relays
101
103
105
107
Number of Posts
0 25 50 75 100
Available in X ASes
101
103
105
Number of Posts0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
CDF
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
CDF
Fig. 6. (a) Distribution and CDF of the number of relays
where a post is available; (b) Distribution and CDF of
the number of ASes where a post is available.
We first assess the replication of posts, at a per-
post level. Figure 6 presents the CDF of the num-
ber of relays and ASes in which a post is repli-
cated. We see remarkable levels of replication:
the majority of posts are replicated across multi-
ple relays and ASes, with the average being 34.6
and 12.4, respectively. While the high volume of
post replications contributes to increased post
availability and censorship-resistance, it also
leads to an excess of redundancies. This may in-
cur unnecessary costs,e.g.,relay storage space.
We delve deeper into this aspect in the subsequent subsections.
5.2 Post Availability under Attack
To evaluate the robustness of posts to censorship attacks, we simulate relay removals using our
dataset. Failures could be triggered by censorship attacks from third parties (e.g.,DDoS) or simply
a shutdown by the administrator. We sequentially remove the most pivotal relays and ASes, and
then measure the number of posts that remain available. We employ two ways of ranking the most
pivotal relays and ASes to remove: measured by the largest number of (i) posts and (ii) users. We
perform an additional ranking for ASes based on the number of relays. Note, we define a post as
available if it is replicated on at least one relay.
Figure 7a shows the percentage of available posts after the removal of the top𝑋 relays. In stark
contrast to the Fediverse [39], Nostr’s availability and censorship resistance remains impressively
robust, hovering around 90% even after the top 50 relays, ranked by the number of users, are
removed. Even when removing the top relays based on the number of posts, the availability remains
above 90% only until the top 30th relay is removed (after which it experiences a sharp decline,
culminating at 71% at the top 50th). That said, we argue that the availability is still fairly impressive.
Figure 7b also displays the proportion of accessible posts following the elimination of the top
X ASes. Despite the failure of entire ASes, over 80% of posts remaining available even after the
removal of the top 10 ASes. To provide a comparison, the post availability plunges to less than 10%
after the removal of the top 10 ASes hosting the instances [39]. This is largely driven by the more
uniform distribution of relays across distinct ASes, making them more resilient to individual AS
takedowns. These findings confirm significant censorship resistance within the Nostr ecosystem, a
result largely attributable to the extensive replication of posts.
5.3 Post Redundancy
Despite the impressive post availability attained by Nostr, we suspect that this comes at the
cost of excessive overhead. This involves an “over-replication” of some posts across numerous
(unnecessary) relays. For example, our data shows that, 50% of posts are replicated across over 14
relays, and 25% are replicated across more than 49 relays. Arguably, this level of redundancy is
unnecessary, except in the face of catastrophic wide area attacks or failures. Consequently, we next
measure the possible optimization space of post replications using our dataset.
To do this, we investigate the number of replications that can be eliminated if we cap the
maximum replication of a post at 𝑁 . Specifically, for each post 𝑃 with𝑀𝑃 replications, where
𝑀𝑃 >𝑁 , we calculate Δ𝑃 =𝑀𝑃−𝑁 . Subsequently, we compute the result by summing up Δ𝑃 for
all posts𝑃. This result represents the optimization space under the assumption that exceeding𝑁
replications is unnecessary.

12 Yiluo Wei and Gareth Tyson
0 10 20 30 40 50
Top X Relays Removed
70
75
80
85
90
95
100Available Posts (%)
By Num. of Posts
By Num. of Users
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Top X ASes Removed
40
50
60
70
80
90
100Available Posts (%)
By Num. of Posts
By Num. of Users
By Num. of Relays
0%
16%
32%
49%
65%
81%
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
Limit to N replications
0
100
200
300
400
500Removed Post Count (Million)
Fig. 7. (a) Percentage of available posts when top X relays are removed; (b) Percentage of available posts
when top X ASes are removed; (c) Number of removed post replications when the maximum number of post
replications is limited to N.
The results are depicted in Figure 7c. By restricting the maximum replication to 20, it is possible
to eliminate 380 million (61.7%) post replications. Further reducing this limit to 10 leads to the
removal of an additional 100 million post replications, totaling 480 million (77.9%). This substantial
reduction suggests that, if each user only posts to a maximum of 10-20 relays, over 400 million
client-relay communications for posting could be saved, along with the storage space required for
the over 400 million replications. We later revisit the implications that this has on resilience to
relay failures or censorship takedowns.
5.4 Duplicated Retrieval From Relays
The prior subsection has highlighted that Nostr’s approach to post replication and substantially
improves availability and censorship resistance. However, this comes at the cost of storage overhead.
In this subsection, we explore another unexpected overhead created by this approach: A client often
must redundantly retrieve the same post from several relays, resulting in unnecessary bandwidth
usage. This occurs because in Nostr’s design, a client will maintain connections to all relays the
user is using, and retrieve posts from all these relays. For example, if user𝐴 follows user𝐵, and
both are using relays𝑅1,𝑅2, and𝑅3, then𝐵 will send a post 𝑃 to all three relays. Consequently,
𝐴 will receive the identical post𝑃 from𝑅1,𝑅2, and𝑅3 respectively. This is done because a client
does not necessarily know which relay will be hosting the next event of interest. However, the
ideal scenario would be for𝐴 to retrieve𝑃 from just one of the three relays. To date, Nostr has no
solution to elegantly deal with this duplicated retrieval.
Estimating Traffic Volume.We begin by estimating the amount of wasted traffic caused by the
duplicated retrieval of posts. Here, we assume that a user will retrieve all the posts from the users
they are following via all the relays they are using, as defined by the follower relationships. First,
we construct a directed graph𝐺 of all users to represent following relationships. In this graph, a
vertex𝑉signifies a user, and a directed edge(𝑈,𝑉)indicates that user𝑈follows user𝑉.
Retrieval Count of a Post over an Edge.For a post, 𝑃, that is shared over a following edge(𝑈,𝑉) ,
we calculate the number of times it is retrieved across relays. We refer to this as theretrieval count.
First, we get𝑆𝑅
𝑃 , representing the set of relays where the post𝑃 is duplicated. Second, we get𝑆𝑅
𝑈 ,
representing the set of relays utilized by user𝑈 . Last, we compute|𝑆𝑅
𝑃∩𝑆 𝑅
𝑈|, which corresponds to
the retrieval count of𝑃.
Traffic over an Edge.For a following edge (𝑈,𝑉) , we calculate the volume of traffic over it.
First, we get𝑆𝑃
𝑉 , which represents all posts published by user𝑉 . Note, these are equal to all posts
transmitted over edge(𝑈,𝑉) . Second, for every post in𝑆𝑃
𝑉 , we calculate its retrieval count. We then
calculate theretrieval size, by multiplying the retrieval count by the size of the post. Last, we sum
the retrieval counts and retrieval traffic for all posts within𝑆𝑃
𝑉 to obtain the total retrieval count
and retrieval size over the edge(𝑈,𝑉).

An Empirical Analysis of the Nostr Social Network: Decentralization, Availability, and Replication Overhead 13
100 101 102 103 104 105 106
Count of Posts Over a Following Edge
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0CDF
Optimal
Estimated
Wasted
100 101 102 103 104 105 106
Size (KiB) of Posts Over a Fol. Edge
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0CDF
Optimal
Estimated
Wasted
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Proportion Wasted Over a Fol. Edge
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0CDF
Count
Size
Fig. 8. CDF of (a) the retrieval count of posts transmitted over a following edge; (b) the retrieval size of posts
transmitted over a following edge; (c) the percentage of wasted retrieval count and retrieval size of posts
transmitted over a following edge.
Traffic over the Following Graph.We also calculate the volume of traffic over the entire follower
graph𝐺. For every edge in𝐺, we compute the traffic over the edge, and sum up the results.
Results.We use the above method to estimate the quantified amount of traffic. In total, the follower
graph𝐺 contains 3.5M follower relationships between users. The CDF of the retrieval count and
retrieval size of posts over an edge is illustrated in Figure 8a and 8b, respectively. For comparison,
we also plot the “optimal” case. This assumes that each post is retrieved only once (i.e.,from a
single relay). We calculate the wasted volume of traffic by subtracting the optimal value from the
estimated value. We refer to this as thewastedvolume, which is also plotted in the figures.
From Figure 8a and 8b, we observe that the estimated download traffic exchanged is significantly
higher than the optimal value (where each post on an edge is retrieved only once). As a result, the
estimated amount of traffic wastage is almost identical to the estimated volume of traffic,i.e.,nearly
all download traffic in Nostr is redundant. On average, the optimal retrieval count for an edge is
1130 posts, while the actual estimated value is 62,839 posts. This is a significant cost to pay for the
additional censorship protections.
To more clearly depict this, Figure 8c plots the CDF of the percentage of wasted traffic per
follower edge. This graph shows a significant volume of wasted traffic. We observe that 98% of the
traffic is wasted for over 50% of the following edges. We find that 98.2% of the download traffic in
Nostr is wasted, totaling 144 TiB . This is because the majority of clients are connected to multiple
relays, thereby redundantly downloading the same objects many times.
Overall, we find that the duplicated retrievals from relays results in substantial traffic waste. This
leads to unnecessary costs in operating the relays and can have a negative impact on the Nostr
ecosystem. It also has a detrimental impact on clients with limited resources. We argue that certain
simple innovations could mitigate this issue; thus, we explore possible solutions in §6.2.
Takeaways:(i) Post availability on Nostr significantly surpasses that of Fediverse applications, making
censorship difficult without a concerted large-scale attack upon many relays. (ii) However, the overhead
of post replications is large. On average, a post is replicated across 34.6 relays, introducing significant
storage overhead. (iii) Due to the Nostr protocol and extensive post replications, users retrieve the same
post multiple times from different relays, leading to significant wastage of bandwidth for relays and clients.
6 Potential Nostr System Improvements
In §5, we found that the replication of posts in Nostr leads to significant overhead. Thus, we next
investigate potential improvement that can reduce the associated overhead. The goal is to provide
references and insights for the community to further improve the operation of Nostr, while retaining
the same level of censorship resistance.

14 Yiluo Wei and Gareth Tyson
0 10 20 30 40 50
Top X Relays Removed
(by Number of Posts)
60
70
80
90
100Available Posts (%)
0 10 20 30
Top X ASes Removed
(by Number of Posts)
20
40
60
80
100Available Posts (%)
Original
20 Replics.
15 Replics.
10 Replics.
5 Replics.
2 Replics.
0 10 20 30 40 50
Top X Relays Removed
(by Number of Posts)
60
70
80
90
100Available Posts (%)
0 10 20 30
Top X ASes Removed
(by Number of Posts)
20
40
60
80
100Available Posts (%)
Original
20 Replics.
15 Replics.
10 Replics.
5 Replics.
2 Replics.
Fig. 9. Percentage of available posts when top X relays are removed and when top X ASes are removed, if the
maximum number of post replications is (a) reduced to N randomly; (b) reduced to N based on AS.
6.1 Improving Storage Redundancy
§5.3 shows that, by restricting the maximum number of replications, it is possible to eliminate
millions of replications. Thus, we propose an enhancement for Nostr clients, where they set a cap
of𝑁 relays to publish their posts to. This, however, may impact post availability and censorship
resistance. We are aware that reducing this redundancy, even slightly, creates a trade-off between
theoretical availability and practical efficiency. Our position is that the current level of replication
is excessive, imposing a severe burden on relay operators for a level of resilience that may not
be necessary in practice. Our goal is to find a more pragmatic balance that ensures the network’s
long-term health.
Thus, it is important that a client intelligently selects the most resilient composition of𝑁 relays.
We strive to make the relay selection mechanism flexible. The strategy for selecting relays and the
number of𝑁 is therefore configurable by the user to suit their specific needs. Yet, intuitively, we
would want a post to be replicated across different ASes to prevent central points of failure. Thus,
we propose an AS-based strategy that prioritizes availability, aiming to distribute the post across
the maximum possible number of ASes. We evaluate our proposed enhancement by simulating
the situation where we limit the maximum number of replicas to 𝑁 and then compare the post
availability to the original using the same method as in §5.2.
Evaluation Method.To assess post availability after limiting replicas to a maximum of 𝑁 , we
simulate new scenarios with different 𝑁 values, derived from our existing dataset. Within the
original dataset, each post,𝑃, is associated with a map𝑃→𝑆 , where𝑆 represents the set of relays
where𝑃 is replicated. To reflect the scenario where the maximum number of replicas is limited
to𝑁 , this mapping is then modified. For any post𝑃 with replicas exceeding𝑁 (i.e.,|𝑆|>𝑁 ), we
create a subset𝑆′ from𝑆 such that|𝑆′|=𝑁 , and let𝑃→𝑆 ′. To evaluate the trade-off of𝑁 and
the availability, we employ the same approach as detailed in Section §5.2 (i.e.,simulating relay
failures) to measure the post availability within these new scenarios. We run the experiments in
4 scenarios with𝑁= 5, 10, 15, and 20, respectively. Additionally, we include the scenario where
𝑁=2to illustrate how availability diminishes when the replication number is extremely low.
We experiment with two strategies for selecting𝑆′: random (as a baseline) and our proposed
AS-based strategy. Specifically, with the random strategy, for every 𝑃→𝑆 with|𝑆|>𝑁 , we
construct subset𝑆′ by randomly selecting𝑁 relays from𝑆, and let𝑃→𝑆 ′. For the the AS-based
strategy, for every𝑃→𝑆 with|𝑆|>𝑁 , we construct subset𝑆′ such that the relays in𝑆′ span as
many ASes as possible, and let𝑃→𝑆 ′. To do this, we start by selecting one random relay from𝑆
for each possible AS. If we do not have enough, we randomly select additional relays from𝑆 until
the total number equals N. This is designed to be inherently simple and not require coordination
across multiple clients or relays.
Evaluation Results.We use the same method as in §5.2 to simulate relay failures and thus
compare the post availability under attack to the original. Figure 9 shows the results of the impact

An Empirical Analysis of the Nostr Social Network: Decentralization, Availability, and Replication Overhead 15
on availability when removing either (i) individual relays; or (ii) entire ASes (and therefore all
relays hosted within). To quantify the difference in availability between the new scenario and
the original, we begin by defining𝐴(𝑁,𝑋) as the availability when the maximum replication is
restricted to𝑁 , and the top𝑋 relays are removed. This corresponds to each point depicted in the
figure. Subsequently, to capture the difference in availability between the given scenario and the
original, we introduce Δ𝐴(𝑁,𝑋)=𝐴(𝑁,𝑋)−𝐴(𝑂,𝑋) , where𝑂 denotes the original scenario. In
order to encapsulate the overall difference between a line in the figure and the original, we define
𝐷𝐴
𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑦(𝑁,𝑋)=Σ 𝑋
𝑖=1Δ𝐴(𝑁,𝑖)/𝑋 . This captures the average difference in availability across all 𝑋
values. Similar to𝐷 𝐴
𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑦 , we also define𝐷 𝐴
𝐴𝑆(𝑁,𝑋)for the removal of𝑋ASes.
Figure 9b plots the results for the AS-based strategy. Even when removing several relays or
ASes, if the maximum number of post replicas is limited to𝑁≥ 10, the post availability (percent-
age of available posts) is very close to the original. That is, throughout the measured 𝑋 values,
𝐷𝐴
𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑦(𝑁,𝑋)< 1%and 𝐷𝐴
𝐴𝑆(𝑁,𝑋)< 1%for 𝑁≥ 10. Additionally, this is also significantly bet-
ter than the random strategy, as depicted in Figure 9a, especially in the scenario where several
ASes (and all relays hosted within) are removed. To quantify this, we find𝐷𝐴
𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑦(10, 50) is -0.39%,
and𝐷𝐴
𝐴𝑆(10, 30) is -0.53%. In contrast, for random relay selection, 𝐷𝐴
𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑦(10, 50) is -1.15%, and
𝐷𝐴
𝐴𝑆(10, 30) is -8.38%. This outcome is anticipated, as this relay selection strategy directly opposes
scenarios where the entire AS is removed.
Evaluation Summary.The results confirm that our proposed solution is effective. For reasonable
values of𝑁 (such as 15 and 20), we dramatically reduce the post redundancy while maintaining
high levels of post availability and censorship resistance against our simulated relay-level and
AS-level failures. Further, by choosing our proposed AS strategy, it is possible to choose smaller
values of𝑁 such as 10. In the case where the number of replications is restricted to𝑁= 20, 380
million (61.7%) post replications can be eliminated.
However, it is important to note that this AS-spanning replication optimization could introduce
a load imbalance, particularly for relays that are the sole one hosted in their AS. This could open up
potential threats. For example, an adversary could exploit this by identifying and targeting these
unique relays in small ASes to disproportionately impact the overall network. Our current resilience
evaluation assumes whole AS-level failures and does not model this more surgical targeted relay
attack. Therefore, Nostr’s resilience under more targeted adversarial strategies remains an open
question.
6.2 Improving Retrieval Traffic Waste
The issue of duplicated retrieval of posts by clients (§5.4) arises from the fact that, in the vanilla
Nostr implementation, clients retrieve the posts of every user they follow from all relays in their
relay list. This creates substantial communications overhead for both clients and relays. An intuitive
solution might be for a client to send a filter requesting the relay to exclude any prior posts they
already possess. However, in practice, such a solution is impractical. This is because clients connect
in parallel to all relays, to enable real-time communications. Sending a filter would require a client
to connect to each relay sequentially one-by-one (so that the filter can be updated). This could
result in a delay of several minutes for the client to refresh the timeline, which many users may
find unacceptable. It also introduces additional complexity and network load (e.g.,sending a filter
also cost additional bandwidth) on both the client and relay-side, which Nostr strives to avoid.
Thus, we propose a design improvement that avoids any additional client-relay communication,
where the client only retrieves posts from only a small subset of relays (rather than from all relays
in their list). This, however, demands the intelligent selection of which relays to contact. To select

16 Yiluo Wei and Gareth Tyson
which𝑁 relays to retrieve posts of user𝑉 from, we first rank all relays based on the number of user
𝑉 ’s posts stored there. We then select the top𝑁 relays that host the most posts by user𝑉 . We posit
that this lightweight strategy increases the likelihood of accessing most posts. However, even with
the best relays, posts can be missed. Thus, to evaluate this trade-off, we test our proposed design
by simulating the scenario where clients only retrieve posts from a selected subset of𝑁relays.
0 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Coverage of a User's Posts
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3CDF
Top 1 Relay
Top 2 Relays
Top 3 Relays
Top 4 Relays
Top 5 Relays
0 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Completness of a Following Edge
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3CDF
Top 1 Relay
Top 2 Relays
Top 3 Relays
Top 4 Relays
Top 5 Relays
Fig. 10. CDF of (a) post coverage for users; (b) completeness of
following edges with optimistic retrieval.
Evaluation of Post Coverage.We
first evaluate the strategy from the
post sender’s perspective, where we
examine the proportion of posts that
our approach of selecting the 𝑁 re-
lays can cover for a sender. We de-
note𝑆𝑃
𝑈 as the set of all posts of user
(sender)𝑈 . We denote𝑆𝑃
𝑅 as the set of
all posts contained within the relay𝑅.
The intersection,𝑆𝑃
𝑈∩𝑆 𝑃
𝑅 represents
the posts made by sender𝑈 that are
stored by relay𝑅. Then, we define the
coverage of𝑅 for𝑈 as(|𝑆𝑃
𝑈∩𝑆 𝑃
𝑅|/|𝑆 𝑃
𝑈|)× 100%,i.e.,the percentage of the posts of 𝑈 that is covered
by𝑅. Similarly, for a set of relays𝑆𝑅, we first compute the set of all posts contained within the
relays in𝑆 𝑅, as𝑆 𝑃
𝑆𝑅 = —
𝑅∈𝑆 𝑅𝑆𝑃
𝑅. Then the coverage of𝑆 𝑅 for𝑈is(|𝑆 𝑃
𝑆𝑅∩𝑆 𝑃
𝑅|/|𝑆 𝑃
𝑈|)×100%.
For each user (sender)𝑉 , we evaluate the coverage of the selected𝑁 relays (the top𝑁 relays
ranked by the number of 𝑉 ’s posts) for 𝑉 . We construct 5 sets with the 𝑁= 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5,
respectively. Figure 10a presents the CDF of the coverage offered by the five set sizes of relays for
each sender. We see that, by retrieving solely from the top four or top five relays, 90% of senders
can ensure that all recipients see their posts (i.e.,100% coverage). This confirms that by strategically
opting for a small number of relays to push posts to, the post coverage for the majority of senders
is satisfactory.
comple- Wasted Count Wasted Size
teness Wasted % Wasted %
Original - 218.3B - 143.9T -
𝑁=2 99.0% 3.8B 1.7% 2.5T 1.7%
𝑁=3 99.2% 7.7B 3.5% 5.1T 3.5%
𝑁=4 99.3% 11.6B 5.3% 7.7T 5.4%
𝑁=5 99.4% 15.4B 7.0% 10.2T 7.1%
Table 1. The post completeness and potentially
wasted count and size of posts over the following
graph, when only retrieving from the selected𝑁
relays, with N = 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Evaluation of Completeness of Following Edges.
We next evaluate our design from the perspective
of users who want to retrieve the post. To look at
which posts each retriever should retrieve, we turn
to the follower graph. This tells us which posts each
user should retrieve. We construct the follower graph
𝐺, and evaluate the post retrieval completeness over
𝐺. We evaluate the completeness of each following
edge(𝑈,𝑉) . Specifically, let𝑆𝑃
𝑉 denote the set of all
posts by𝑉 , and𝑂𝑃
𝑉 denote the set of𝑉 ’s posts that
can be retrieved by 𝑈 from the selected 𝑁 relays for𝑉 . Thecompletenessis then computed as
(|𝑂𝑃
𝑉|/|𝑆 𝑃
𝑉|)× 100%. Figure 10b shows the CDF of the completeness across the follower edges.
Again, we observe that nearly 90% of following edges achieve 100% coverage.
Saved Traffic.Finally, we evaluate the traffic savings attained by reducing the level of redundant
retrievals. To do this, we use the same approach as described in §5.4, while assuming clients only
retrieve posts of a user from their selected set of𝑁 relays. Specifically, in the original method in
§5.4, for a following edge(𝑈,𝑉) , we retrieve from𝑆𝑅
𝑈 . This represents the set of relays utilized
by user𝑈 . We then use𝑆𝑅
𝑉𝑁
, which represents the selected𝑁 relays for user𝑉 (top𝑁 relays with
largest number of𝑉 ’s posts). Table 1 presents the results for𝑁= 2, 3, 4, and 5. The table shows

An Empirical Analysis of the Nostr Social Network: Decentralization, Availability, and Replication Overhead 17
that even when𝑁 is set to 5, it is possible decrease the duplicated retrieval count by 93%, while
still achieving 99.4% of post completeness.
Evaluation Summary.The results highlight that our proposed design, under our simulated
scenarios, substantially reduces wasted traffic, without heavily compromising the completeness
of the retrieved posts. Although a small (<1%) number of posts are missed, we posit that this is
acceptable in most practical scenarios as the Nostr protocol, by its design, does not guarantee
completeness. Considering that numerous relays are lightweight and subject to the costs associated
with metered bandwidth, we contend that our proposed design significantly enhances the efficiency
and overall sustainability of the Nostr ecosystem, without introducing substantial new complexity.
7 Related Work
To the best of our knowledge, this research is the first large-scale analysis of the Nostr ecosystem,
and Nostr is the first decentralized social networks at scale to prioritize censorship resistance as its
primary objective. However, there has been ongoing research on censorship resistance techniques
and decentralized social networks.
Censorship Resistance Techniques.Numerous techniques combat Internet censorship. Proxy-
based systems, for instance, use millions of short-lived proxies [12], while TLS-based tools utilize
encrypted channels to hinder content monitoring [ 16]. The Tor network provides anonymity
by routing traffic through volunteer-operated servers, concealing user activity [ 28, 48]. Video
steganography conceals information within multimedia files for covert communication [ 5, 14].
Core network-based circumvention includes methods like decoy routing [24] and domain fronting
[13]. These varied techniques underscore the multifaceted approach to combating censorship. We
complement this prior work with our focus on Nostr, a censorship-resistant microblogging service.
Decentralized Social Networks.Early efforts in decentralized social networks utilized peer-to-
peer (P2P) technologies, with examples like Safebook [11] and PeerSoN [9]. Recently, federated
networks such as Mastodon and PeerTube, forming the Fediverse [29], have gained prominence,
typically using protocols like W3C ActivityPub [46] for server-to-server communication. Research
on these federated systems has investigated Mastodon’s centralization tendencies [ 39], growth
patterns [10], user behaviors [26, 27], and content moderation challenges in services like Pleroma
[19, 49]. More recently, Bluesky has gained attention, while many of its components are still in a
(semi-)centralized mode [3, 4]. Nostr presents a different architecture. Unlike Fediverse applications
where servers interoperate, Nostr relays are independent. Users connect directly to multiple relays,
enhancing censorship resistance and account portability, as accounts are not tied to a specific relay.
This allows users to replicate posts across various relays for better availability.
Other decentralized social networks offer different approaches to this design space. Peer-to-peer
(P2P) systems like Secure Scuttlebutt (SSB) [43] use a gossip protocol where users replicate the feeds
of those they follow. This shifts the storage burden to the user’s device and can lead to significant
client-side overhead and synchronization challenges. Similarly, various blockchain-based social
networks (e.g., memo.cash [51], Steemit [18]) embed social data directly onto a blockchain [2, 17, 23].
While this offers strong immutability, it incurs extreme overhead in terms of storage, transaction
fees, and network bandwidth, which must be borne by the entire network. Nostr, while using public-
key cryptography for post signing, is distinct: it neither employs blockchain technology (though
users can use cryptocurrency for payments), nor complex P2P data replication and validation
like SSB. Instead, Nostr prioritizes a simpler, lightweight, and user-friendly design. That said, our
findings indicate that Nostr also experiences network overhead, suggesting it is not exempt from
the classic resilience-overhead tradeoff inherent in censorship-resistant social networks.

18 Yiluo Wei and Gareth Tyson
8 Conclusion, Limitations and Future Work
Concluding Remarks.This paper presents a comprehensive study of the Nostr ecosystem, an
emerging censorship-resistant decentralized social network. Nostr represents a new design philoso-
phy for building decentralized social networks: it is intentionally simple and offers minimal features,
while prioritizing key attributes that many people expect from a decentralized platform: openness,
high availability, and censorship resistance. Overall, we highlight the operational characteristics of
such a system in contrast to traditional Fediverse applications, revealing its strengths, limitations,
and trade-offs where we also propose potential improvements. We hope these insights can aid in
the development of other decentralized social networks, especially for those aiming to prioritize
censorship resistance. We wish to flag several limitations, which form the basis of our future work.
Measurement Method Limitations.The exclusion of offline or paywalled relays from our dataset
might skew the results to reflect the behavior of publicly accessible relays. Our findings about
relay availability rely on third-party data from nostr.watch. Although this tool is widely used
within the Nostr community, conducting independent probes to validate the results would enhance
the reliability of our claims regarding relay availability. That said, this approach also offers the
advantage of ensuring that the availability results are not influenced by factors such as being banned
by relays. The analysis of geolocation and IP-to-AS mapping depends on theIP-API service, which
may introduce minor mappuing errors. Thus, future research could improve geolocation accuracy
by utilizing multiple sources for geolocation data. Our current estimation of relay operating costs
is based on Mastodon instances. To enhance accuracy, future research could improve this by
conducting surveys with relay operators. When measuring the availability under attack, we only
consider attacks in relay and AS level. However, attacks can occur not only at the AS-level but
also at the country level. Studies have examined several instances of country-level censorship, for
example, in China [20] and in Turkmenistan [38]. Future research may consider these broader levels
of attack, which would provide a more comprehensive understanding of availability challenges in
different geopolitical contexts.
Proposed Potential Improvements.Our proposed optimizations are intentionally designed to
modify only the client side, a choice made to avoid complicated coordination and ensure easy
adoption. A limitation of this client-centric approach is that our evaluation, while demonstrating
bandwidth savings, does not measure the potential impact on user-perceived latency or content
consistency during query fallbacks. Furthermore, our simulation assumes uniform adoption and
does not account for adaptive or alternative user behaviors, such as circumventing replication caps
or strategically selecting relay subsets, which could alter real-world performance.
At a higher level, our proposed optimizations, while effective at reducing operational overhead,
are not a complete solution to the problem of relay sustainability caused by the lack of incentives.
Our work squarely addresses the cost side of the economic equation for operators but does not
introduce new revenue streams. Therefore, a critical direction for future work is to explore and
evaluate systemic solutions, such as micropayments or tokenization, that provide clear financial
incentives to ensure the ecosystem’s long-term health.
Longitudinal Dataset Limitations.Our dataset captures the Nostr network during a six-month
window ending in late 2023. Given Nostr’s rapid evolution, our findings represent a specific
point in time, and the network’s characteristics regarding user base, relay stability, and client
behavior may have since changed. This highlights critical avenues for future research. A continuous,
longitudinal analysis with more recent data is essential to track long-term trends and validate the
continued relevance of our conclusions. Further, new decentralized social networks like Bluesky

An Empirical Analysis of the Nostr Social Network: Decentralization, Availability, and Replication Overhead 19
[3, 4] have emerged recently and attracted a significant number of users. Conducting a comparative
performance analysis against these networks would certainly be interesting.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported in part by the Guangzhou Science and Technology Bureau (2024A03J0684),
Guangdong provincial project 2023QN10X048, the Guangzhou Municipal Key Laboratory on
Future Networked Systems (2024A03J0623), the Guangdong Provincial Key Lab of Integrated
Communication, Sensing and Computation for Ubiquitous Internet of Things (No.2023B1212010007),
the Guangzhou Municipal Science and Technology Project (2023A03J0011), Guangdong provincial
project (2023ZT10X009), and the 111 Center (No. D25008).
References
[1] Danielle Allen, Woojin Lim, Eli Frankel, Joshua Simons, Divya Siddarth, and Glen Weyl. 2023. Ethics of Decentralized
Social Technologies: Lessons From Web3, the Fediverse, and Beyond.Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Ethics(2023).
[2] Md Arquam, Anurag Singh, and Rajesh Sharma. 2021. A blockchain-based secured and trusted framework for
information propagation on online social networks.Social Network Analysis and Mining11, 1 (May 2021). https:
//doi.org/10.1007/s13278-021-00754-y
[3] Leonhard Balduf, Saidu Sokoto, Onur Ascigil, Gareth Tyson, Ignacio Castro, Andrea Baronchelli, George Pavlou,
Björn Scheuermann, and Michał Król. 2025. Bootstrapping Social Networks: Lessons from Bluesky Starter Packs.
arXiv:2501.11605 [cs.SI] https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.11605
[4] Leonhard Balduf, Saidu Sokoto, Onur Ascigil, Gareth Tyson, Björn Scheuermann, Maciej Korczyński, Ignacio Castro,
and Michaundefined Król. 2024. Looking AT the Blue Skies of Bluesky. InProceedings of the 2024 ACM on Internet
Measurement Conference(Madrid, Spain)(IMC ’24). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 76–91.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3646547.3688407
[5] Diogo Barradas, Nuno Santos, Luís Rodrigues, and Vítor Nunes. 2020. Poking a Hole in the Wall: Efficient Censorship-
Resistant Internet Communications by Parasitizing on WebRTC. InProceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGSAC Conference on
Computer and Communications Security(Virtual Event, USA)(CCS ’20). Association for Computing Machinery, New
York, NY, USA, 35–48. https://doi.org/10.1145/3372297.3417874
[6] Kevin Bock, George Hughey, Xiao Qiang, and Dave Levin. 2019. Geneva: Evolving Censorship Evasion Strategies. In
Proceedings of the 2019 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security(London, United Kingdom)
(CCS ’19). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2199–2214. https://doi.org/10.1145/3319535.33
63189
[7] Cecylia Bocovich, Arlo Breault, David Fifield, Serene, and Xiaokang Wang. 2024. Snowflake, a censorship circumvention
system using temporary WebRTC proxies. In33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24). USENIX Associa-
tion, Philadelphia, PA, 2635–2652. https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity24/presentation/bocovich
[8] Cecylia Bocovich and Ian Goldberg. 2016. Slitheen: Perfectly Imitated Decoy Routing through Traffic Replacement. In
Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security(Vienna, Austria)(CCS ’16).
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1702–1714. https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978312
[9] Sonja Buchegger, Doris Schi"oberg, Le-Hung Vu, and Anwitaman Datta. 2009. PeerSoN: P2P social networking: early
experiences and insights. InProceedings of the Second ACM EuroSys Workshop on Social Network Systems. 46–52.
[10] Lucio La Cava, Sergio Greco, and Andrea Tagarelli. 2021. Understanding the growth of the Fediverse through the lens
of Mastodon.Applied Network Science6 (2021), 1–35.
[11] Leucio Antonio Cutillo, Refik Molva, and Thorsten Strufe. 2009. Safebook: A privacy-preserving online social network
leveraging on real-life trust.IEEE Communications Magazine47, 12 (2009), 94–101.
[12] David Fifield, Nate Hardison, Jonathan Ellithorpe, Emily Stark, Dan Boneh, Roger Dingledine, and Phil Porras. 2012.
Evading censorship with browser-based proxies. InProceedings of the 12th International Conference on Privacy Enhancing
Technologies(Vigo, Spain)(PETS’12). Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 239–258. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
31680-7_13
[13] David Fifield, Chang Lan, Rod Hynes, Percy Wegmann, and Vern Paxson. 2015. Blocking-resistant communication
through domain fronting.Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies2015 (2015), 46 – 64.
[14] Gabriel Figueira, Diogo Barradas, and Nuno Santos. 2022. Stegozoa: Enhancing WebRTC Covert Channels with Video
Steganography for Internet Censorship Circumvention. InProceedings of the 2022 ACM on Asia Conference on Computer
and Communications Security(Nagasaki, Japan)(ASIA CCS ’22). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY,
USA, 1154–1167. https://doi.org/10.1145/3488932.3517419
[15] Sarah Frier, Naomi Nix, and Sarah Kopit. 2021. Why Free Speech on the Internet Isn’t Free for All. https://www.bloo
mberg.com/news/articles/2021-06-19/why-free-speech-on-the-internet-isn-t-free-for-all-quicktake.

20 Yiluo Wei and Gareth Tyson
[16] Sergey Frolov and Eric Wustrow. 2019. The use of TLS in Censorship Circumvention.Proceedings 2019 Network and
Distributed System Security Symposium(2019).
[17] Barbara Guidi. 2020. When Blockchain meets Online Social Networks.Pervasive Mob. Comput.62, C (Feb. 2020),
14 pages. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmcj.2020.101131
[18] Barbara Guidi, Andrea Michienzi, and Laura Ricci. 2021. A Graph-Based Socioeconomic Analysis of Steemit.IEEE
Transactions on Computational Social Systems8, 2 (2021), 365–376. https://doi.org/10.1109/TCSS.2020.3042745
[19] Anaobi Ishaku Hassan, Aravindh Raman, Ignacio Castro, Haris Bin Zia, Emiliano De Cristofaro, Nishanth Sastry, and
Gareth Tyson. 2021. Exploring Content Moderation in the Decentralised Web: The Pleroma Case. InProceedings of the
17th International Conference on Emerging Networking EXperiments and Technologies(Virtual Event, Germany)(CoNEXT
’21). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 328–335. https://doi.org/10.1145/3485983.3494838
[20] Nguyen Phong Hoang, Jakub Dalek, Masashi Crete-Nishihata, Nicolas Christin, Vinod Yegneswaran, Michalis Poly-
chronakis, and Nick Feamster. 2024. GFWeb: Measuring the Great Firewall’s Web Censorship at Scale. In33rd
USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24). USENIX Association, Philadelphia, PA, 2617–2633. https:
//www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity24/presentation/hoang
[21] Tao Huang. 2024. Decentralized social networks and the future of free speech online.Computer Law & Security Review
55 (2024), 106059. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clsr.2024.106059
[22] IP-API. 2023. IP-API. https://ip-api.com.
[23] Le Jiang and Xinglin Zhang. 2019. BCOSN: A Blockchain-Based Decentralized Online Social Network.IEEE Transactions
on Computational Social Systems6, 6 (2019), 1454–1466. https://doi.org/10.1109/TCSS.2019.2941650
[24] Josh Karlin, Daniel Ellard, Alden W. Jackson, Christine E. Jones, Greg Lauer, David P. Mankins, and W. Timothy
Strayer. 2011. Decoy Routing: Toward Unblockable Internet Communication. InUSENIX Workshop on Free and Open
Communications on the Internet (FOCI 11). USENIX Association, San Francisco, CA. https://www.usenix.org/confere
nce/foci11/decoy-routing-toward-unblockable-internet-communication
[25] Sheharbano Khattak, Tariq Ehsan Elahi, Laurent Simon, Colleen Swanson, Steven J. Murdoch, and Ian Goldberg. 2016.
SoK: Making Sense of Censorship Resistance Systems.Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies2016 (2016), 37 –
61.
[26] Lucio La Cava, Sergio Greco, and Andrea Tagarelli. 2022. Information consumption and boundary spanning in
Decentralized Online Social Networks: The case of Mastodon users.Online Social Networks and Media30 (2022),
100220. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.osnem.2022.100220
[27] Lucio La Cava, Sergio Greco, and Andrea Tagarelli. 2022. Network Analysis of the Information Consumption-
Production Dichotomy in Mastodon User Behaviors.Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and
Social Media16, 1 (May 2022), 1378–1382. https://doi.org/10.1609/icwsm.v16i1.19391
[28] Akshaya Mani, T. Wilson-Brown, Rob Jansen, Aaron Johnson, and Micah Sherr. 2018. Understanding Tor Usage with
Privacy-Preserving Measurement. InProceedings of the Internet Measurement Conference 2018(Boston, MA, USA)(IMC
’18). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 175–187. https://doi.org/10.1145/3278532.3278549
[29] Aymeric Mansoux and Roel Roscam Abbing. 2020. Seven theses on the fediverse and the becoming of FLOSS.
[30] Mastohost. 2023. Mastodon Host Price. https://masto.host/pricing/.
[31] Nostr. 2023. Nostr. https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nostr.
[32] Nostr-NIP-01. 2023. Nostr NIP-01. https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/01.md.
[33] Nostr-NIP-11. 2023. Nostr NIP-11. https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/11.md.
[34] Nostr-NIP-57. 2023. Nostr NIP-57. https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/57.md.
[35] Nostr-NIP-66. 2023. Nostr NIP-66. https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/66.md.
[36] Nostr.Band. 2023. Nostr statatistics of total number of users (public key with bio) and posts (kind-1 event). https:
//stats.nostr.band.
[37] Nostr.Watch. 2023. Online Relays. https://next.nostr.watch/relays.
[38] Sadia Nourin, Van Tran, Xi Jiang, Kevin Bock, Nick Feamster, Nguyen Phong Hoang, and Dave Levin. 2023. Measuring
and Evading Turkmenistan’s Internet Censorship: A Case Study in Large-Scale Measurements of a Low-Penetration
Country. InProceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2023(Austin, TX, USA)(WWW ’23). Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1969–1979. https://doi.org/10.1145/3543507.3583189
[39] Aravindh Raman, Sagar Joglekar, Emiliano De Cristofaro, Nishanth Sastry, and Gareth Tyson. 2019. Challenges in
the Decentralised Web: The Mastodon Case(IMC ’19). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
217–229. https://doi.org/10.1145/3355369.3355572
[40] Alan Z Rozenshtein. 2023. Moderating the fediverse: Content moderation on distributed social media.J. Free Speech L.
3 (2023), 217.
[41] Adam Satariano. 2021. Facebook Hearing Strengthens Calls for Regulation in Europe. https://www.nytimes.com/2021
/10/06/technology/facebook-european-union-regulation.html.

An Empirical Analysis of the Nostr Social Network: Decentralization, Availability, and Replication Overhead 21
[42] S. Shashlin. 2023. The Future of Social Networking: Decentralization for User Empowerment, Privacy, and Freedom.
https://medium.com/@sshshln/the-future-of-social-networking-decentralization-for-user-empowerment-privacy-
and-freedom-from-a0a8f74790cb Accessed: 2023-10-17.
[43] Dominic Tarr, Erick Lavoie, Aljoscha Meyer, and Christian Tschudin. 2019. Secure Scuttlebutt: An Identity-Centric
Protocol for Subjective and Decentralized Applications(ICN ’19). Association for Computing Machinery, New York,
NY, USA, 1–11. https://doi.org/10.1145/3357150.3357396
[44] Leanne Townsend and Claire Wallace. 2016. Social media research: A guide to ethics.University of Aberdeen1, 16
(2016).
[45] Leanne Townsend and Claire Wallace. 2017.Chapter 8: The Ethics of Using Social Media Data in Research: A New
Framework. 189–207. https://doi.org/10.1108/S2398-601820180000002008
[46] W3C. 2018. ActivityPub. https://www.w3.org/TR/activitypub/.
[47] WebSocket. 2023. WebSocket. https://websocket.org/.
[48] Joss Wright, Alexander Darer, and Oliver Farnan. 2018. On Identifying Anomalies in Tor Usage with Applications in
Detecting Internet Censorship. InProceedings of the 10th ACM Conference on Web Science(Amsterdam, Netherlands)
(WebSci ’18). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 87–96. https://doi.org/10.1145/3201064.3201
093
[49] Haris Zia, Aravindh Raman, Ignacio Castro, Ishaku Anaobi, Emiliano De Cristofaro, Nishanth Sastry, and Gareth
Tyson. 2022. Toxicity in the Decentralized Web and the Potential for Model Sharing.Proceedings of the ACM on
Measurement and Analysis of Computing Systems6 (05 2022), 1–25. https://doi.org/10.1145/3530901
[50] Hadi Zolfaghari and Amir Houmansadr. 2016. Practical Censorship Evasion Leveraging Content Delivery Networks.
InProceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security(Vienna, Austria)(CCS
’16). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1715–1726. https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978365
[51] Wenrui Zuo, Aravindh Raman, Raul J Mondragón, and Gareth Tyson. 2023. Set in Stone: Analysis of an Immutable
Web3 Social Media Platform(WWW ’23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1865–1874.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3543507.3583510

22 Yiluo Wei and Gareth Tyson
Fig. 11. Overview of Nostr. (1) The user uses a client of their choice; (2) Through the client, the user publish
the post to relays of their choice; (3) Relays forward the post to clients that have a subscription indicating it
wants the message; (4) The client shows the post to the user. (A) Screenshot of Iris, a web client for Nostr. (B)
Screenshot of Damus, an IOS client for Nostr.
A Appendix
A.1 Ethical Considerations
The relay dataset only comprises public infrastructure information and data that has been voluntarily
disclosed by the relay operator. The event dataset includes both user and post information that are
publicly available to anyone. To prevent any mishandling of data, we adhere to established ethical
procedures for social media data [44, 45] and only collect publicly available data. Additionally, we
do not analyze specific users or posts, nor do we try to link users to their real personal identities.
Our approach to crawling the relays is designed to be minimally intrusive. Each time we connect
to a relay, we gather events from a specific time period rather than retrieving all events in the relay.
This method is similar to how a typical user refreshes their timeline in a client application (In fact,
our crawler is a modified Nostr client). Consequently, we believe this approach imposes minimal
load on the relays, ensuring efficient and respectful data collection.
A.2 Overview of Nostr
Figure 11 offers the screenshots of two Nostr clients.2
2Screenshot of Iris is retrieved from https://www.alza.cz/nostr-decentralizovana-sit-pro-svobodnejsi-sdileni-obsahu-na-
internetu, and screenshot of Damus is retrieved from https://github.com/damus-io/damus.

An Empirical Analysis of the Nostr Social Network: Decentralization, Availability, and Replication Overhead 23
A.3 Sample Relay Information Document
{
" c o n t a c t " : " wino@nostr . wine " ,
" d e s c r i p t i o n " : "A p a i d n o s t r r e l a y f o r wine
e n t h u s i a s t s and everyone e l s e . " ,
" f e e s " : {
" a d m i s s i o n " : [
{
" amount " : 1 8 8 8 8 0 0 0 ,
" u n i t " : " msats "
}
] ,
" r e t e n t i o n " : [ ]
} ,
" l i m i t a t i o n " : {
" a u t h _ r e q u i r e d " : f a l s e ,
" ma x _e ve n t_ ta g s " : 2 0 0 0 ,
" m a x _ l i m i t " : 1 0 0 0 ,
" max_message_length " : 1 3 1 0 7 2 ,
" m a x _ s u b i d _ l e n g t h " : 7 1 ,
" m a x _ s u b s c r i p t i o n s " : 5 0 ,
" m i n _ p o w _ d i f f i c u l t y " : 0 ,
" p a y m e n t _ r e q u i r e d " : t r u e
} ,
" name " : " n o s t r . wine " ,
" p a y m e n t s _ u r l " : " h t t p s : / / n o s t r . wine / i n v o i c e s " ,
" pubkey " : " 4 9 1 8 e b 3 3 2 a 4 1 b 7 1 b a 9 a 7 4 b 1 d c 6 4 2 7 6
c f f f 5 9 2 e 5 5 1 0 7 b 9 3 b a a e 3 8 a f 3 5 2 0 e 5 5 9 7 5 " ,
" s u p p o r t e d _ n i p s " : [ 1 , 2 , 4 , 9 , 1 1 , 1 2 , 1 5 , 1 6 ,
2 0 , 2 2 , 2 8 , 3 3 ] ,
" v e r s i o n " : " main "
}
A.4 Additional Figures for Relay Income
Figure 12 shows the number of usersvs.the estimated 6-month income of free and paid relays. The
green line is the estimated 6-month cost of running a relay. The three figures are based on different
Bitcoin prices.
0 0.4 4 40 400 4000
Estimated 6-month Income in USD
0 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108
Estimated 6-month Income (Satoshi)
101
103
105
Number of Users
0 0.35 3.5 35 350 3500
Estimated 6-month Income in USD
0 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108
Estimated 6-month Income (Satoshi)
101
103
105
Number of Users
0 0.3 3 30 300 3000
Estimated 6-month Income in USD
0 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108
Estimated 6-month Income (Satoshi)
101
103
105
Number of Users
Free Relay
Paid Relay
Estimated Cost
Fig. 12. Number of usersvs.the estimated 6-month income of free and paid relays. The green line is the
estimated 6-month cost of running a relay. The three figures are based on different Bitcoin prices.
Received June 2025; accepted September 2025