SybilDefender: Defend Against Sybil Attacks in
Large Social Networks
Wei Wei∗, Fengyuan Xu ∗, Chiu C. Tan †, Qun Li ∗
∗The College of William and Mary, †Temple University
∗{wwei, fxu, liqun }@cs.wm.edu, †cctan@temple.edu
Abstract—Distributed systems without trusted identities are
particularly vulnerable to sybil attacks, where an adversary
creates multiple bogus identities to compromise the running of
the system. This paper presents SybilDefender, a sybil defense
mechanism that leverages the network topologies to defend
against sybil attacks in social networks. Based on performing
a limited number of random walks within the social graphs,
SybilDefender is efﬁcient and scalable to large social networks.
Our experiments on two 3,000,000 node real-world social topolo-
gies show that SybilDefender outperforms the state of the art by
one to two orders of magnitude in both accuracy and running
time. SybilDefender can effectively identify the sybil nodes and
detect the sybil community around a sybil node, even when the
number of sybil nodes introduced by each attack edge is close
to the theoretically detectable lower bound. Besides, we propose
two approaches to limiting the number of attack edges in online
social networks. The survey results of our Facebook application
show that the assumption made by previous work that all the
relationships in social networks are trusted does not apply to
online social networks, and it is feasible to limit the number of
attack edges in online social networks by relationship rating.
I. I NTRODUCTION
Distributed systems are vulnerable to sybil attacks [7], in
which an adversary creates many bogus identities, called sybil
identities, and compromises the running of the system or
pollutes the system with fake information. The sybil identities
can “suppress” the honest identities in a variety of tasks,
including online content ranking, DHT routing, ﬁle sharing,
reputation systems, and Byzantine failure defenses. There are
some similar attacks in ad hc and sensor networks [16], [17].
Sybil attacks can be mitigated by assuming the existence
of a trusted authority, which can rate-limit the introduction
of fake identities by requiring the users to provide some cre-
dentials, like social security number, or by requiring payment.
However, such requirements will prevent users from accepting
these systems, as they impose additional burdens on users.
Recently, there has been an increasing interest in defending
against sybil attacks in social networks [6], [12], [18], [19],
[20]. In a social network, two user identities share a link
if a relationship is established between them. Each identity
is represented as a node in the social graph. To prevent the
adversary from creating many sybil identities, all the previous
sybil defense schemes are built upon the assumption that the
number of links between the sybil nodes and the honest nodes,
also known as attack edges , is limited. As a result, although
an adversary can create many sybil nodes and link them in
an arbitrary way, there will be a small cut between the honest
region and the sybil region. The small cut consists of all the
attack edges and its removal disconnects the sybil nodes from
the rest of the graph, which is leveraged by previous schemes
to identify the sybil nodes. Note that the solution to this
problem is non-trivial, because ﬁnding small cuts in a graph
is an NP hard problem. To limit the number of attack edges,
previous schemes assume that all the relationships in social
networks are trusted and they reﬂect the trust relationships
among those users in the real world, and thus an adversary
cannot establish many relationships with the honest users.
However, it has been shown that this assumption does not
hold in some real-world social networks [5].
In the past few years, online social networks have gained
great popularity and are among the most frequently visited
sites on the Web [3]. The large sizes of these networks require
that any scheme aiming to defend against sybil attacks in
online social networks should be efﬁcient and scalable. Some
previous schemes can achieve good performance on a very
small network sample (2000 nodes in [18] and 30000 nodes
in [6]), but their algorithms are computationally intensive and
cannot scale to networks with millions of nodes. For the
schemes that performed evaluation on million-node samples of
online social networks, SybilGuard [20] admits O(√n log n)
sybil nodes per attack edge, where n is the number of honest
nodes; SybilLimit [19] improves over SybilGuard by accepting
O(log n) sybil nodes per attack edge, but it is still away from
the theoretical lower bound by a log n factor. Besides, both
SybilGuard and SybilLimit identify one sybil node at a time,
and thus to detect the sybil region all the nodes in the social
graph need to be examined.
To address the weaknesses of previous work, in this paper
we propose SybilDefender, a centralized sybil defense mecha-
nism. It consists of a sybil identiﬁcation algorithm to identify
the sybil nodes, a sybil community detection algorithm to
detect the sybil community surrounding a sybil node, and two
approaches to limiting the number of attack edges in online
social networks. Our scheme is based on the observation that
a sybil node must go through a small cut in the social graph
to reach the honest region. An honest node, on the contrary, is
not restricted. Now if we start from a sybil node to do random
walks, the random walks tend to stay within the sybil region.
The main contributions of this work include:
• Based on performing a limited number of random walks
within the social graphs, the sybil identiﬁcation algorithm
and the sybil community detection algorithm are efﬁcient

and scalable to large social networks.
• We evaluate SybilDefender using two large-scale social
network samples from Orkut and Facebook, respectively.
The results show that the performance of our sybil identi-
ﬁcation algorithm approaches the theoretical bound, and it
outperforms SybilLimit, the state of the art sybil defense
mechanism that applies to large social networks, by one
to two orders of magnitude in both accuracy and running
time. Besides, our sybil community detection algorithm
can effectively detect the sybil community around a sybil
node with short running time.
• We propose two practical techniques to limit the number
of attack edges in online social networks, and develop
a Facebook application to demonstrate the feasibility of
one of the techniques. The survey results of our Facebook
application show that the assumption made by previous
work that all the relationships in social networks are
trusted does not hold in online social networks, and it
is feasible to limit the number of attack edges in online
social networks by relationship rating.
II. R ELATED WORK
One promising way to defend against sybil attacks in social
networks is to leverage the social network topologies. Y u
et al. proposed decentralized algorithms, SybilGuard [20] and
SybilLimit [19], to determine whether a suspect node is sybil
or not. SybilGuard and SybilLimit both rely on the assumption
that social networks are fast mixing (explained later), and the
number of attack edges is limited. To identify sybil nodes,
the schemes make use of random routes, a special kind
of random walks in which each node uses a pre-computed
random permutation as a one-to-one mapping from incoming
edges to outgoing edges. SybilGurad suffers from high false
negatives, as each attack edge may introduce O(√n log n)
sybil nodes without being detected. The improved version
of SybilGuard, SybilLimit, reduces this value to O(log n),
which is still larger than the proved lower bound Ω(1) [19]
by a log n factor. Moreover, to detect the sybil region with
SybilGuard or SybilLimit, all the suspect nodes in the social
graph need to be tested. By contrast, with our sybil community
detection algorithm, the sybil community around a sybil node
can be detected in one run of the algorithm. GateKeeper [12]
is another decentralized sybil defense scheme that heavily
relies on the assumption that the social networks are random
expander. This is a strong assumption which has not been
validated by previous research. Our evaluation shows that
GateKeeper suffers from high false positive and negative rates
and cannot effectively identify sybil nodes on the real-world
asymmetric social topologies.
SybilInfer [6], a centralized sybil defense algorithm, lever-
ages a Bayesian inference approach that assigns a sybil
probability, indicating the degree of certainty, to each node
in the network. It achieves low false negatives at the cost of
high computation overhead. The overall time complexity of
SybilInfer is O(|V |2 log |V |), where V is the set of vertices in
the social graph. In the evaluation SybilInfer handled networks
with up to 30K nodes, which is much smaller than the size
of regular online social networks. The algorithm proposed by
Xu et al. [18] calculates the shortest path between every pair
of nodes within the network in each round, which makes it
impractical for even small-sized social networks. In contrast,
SybilDefender only relies on performing a limited number of
random walks in the social graph, and it is scalable to large
networks.
III. S YSTEM MODEL
We denote the social network as a graph G consisting of
vertices V and edges E. There are n honest users in the social
network, each with one identity, denoted as an honest node in
V . There are also one or more malicious users in the social
network, each with a number of sybil identities. Each sybil
identity is denoted as a sybil node in V . A relationship between
two identities in the social network is represented as an edge
connecting the two corresponding nodes in G. The edges in G
are undirected. We name the edge between a sybil node and an
honest node an attack edge. The sybil region consists of all the
sybil nodes, while the honest region consists of all the honest
nodes. All the sybil nodes are controlled by an adversary. Thus
the adversary can create arbitrary edges within the sybil region.
SybilDefender is built upon the following assumptions:
The honest region is fast mixing . Fast mixing means a
random walk of length Θ(log n) is long enough such that with
probability at least 1 − 1
n , the last traversed node is drawn
from the node stationary distribution of the graph [20]. The
stationary distribution is a probability distribution π for V
such that π = πP , where P is the transition matrix of the
random walk process [11]. It can be easily proved that π i,
the stationary probability of node i, is equal to di
2|E| . Y u et
al. have shown that the real-world social networks are fast
mixing [19]. The previous sybil defense schemes [6], [19],
[20] are also built upon this assumption.
One known honest node . We assume that there is at least
one known honest node in the social network. This node is
the starting point of our sybil identiﬁcation algorithm.
The administrator knows the social network topology . This
means that SybilDefender is a centralized sybil defense mech-
anism. Considering that all the current online social networks
are under centralized control, it is natural for the administrators
of these networks to take charge of mitigating sybil attacks.
The size of the sybil region is not comparable to the size
of the honest region . Given the large user base of the current
online social networks (Facebook (over 500 million), Twitter
(over 200 million), Orkut (over 120 million)), it is reasonable
to assume that the adversary cannot create such many sybil
identities, especially considering that signing up a new user
account always includes verifying an email address, providing
some personal information, and solving CAPTCHAs.
The number of attack edges is limited . As a result, when
the adversary creates many sybil nodes, there will be a
disproportionately small cut between the honest region and
the sybil region. The existence of a small cut disturbs the
fast-mixing property: the mixing between the honest nodes

is fast, while the mixing between the honest nodes and the
sybil nodes is slow. Previous schemes limit the number of
attack edges by assuming that the honest users only establish
links with their real-world friends [6], [12], [19], [20], which
has been shown to not hold in online social networks. The
experiment by Bilge et al. [5] shows that on Facebook, the
acceptance rate of friendship requests from a bogus account
is around 20%. If an adversary launches a sybil attack, all the
links created in this way are attack edges. We will address this
problem in Section IV -C.
IV. S YBIL DEFENDER DESIGN
SybilDefender consists of three components: a sybil identiﬁ-
cation algorithm, a sybil community detection algorithm, and
two supporting approaches to limiting the number of attack
edges. The three components can be used in conjunction to
best mitigate sybil attacks. The task of the sybil identiﬁcation
algorithm presented in Section IV -A is to determine whether a
suspect node is sybil or not. Then we show how to efﬁciently
detect the sybil community around a sybil node with our sybil
community detection algorithm presented in Section IV -B.
The reason why we need the second algorithm is that simply
examining all the nodes in the social graph to ﬁnd the sybil
community is impractical. Finally, both algorithms are built
upon the assumption that the number of attack edges is limited.
In Section IV -C we propose two approaches to supporting this
assumption in online social networks.
A. Sybil Identiﬁcation Algorithm
In this subsection we present a sybil identiﬁcation algorithm
that takes the social graph G(V, E ), a known honest node h,
and a suspect node u as inputs, and outputs whether u is sybil
or not. Our algorithm is based on random walks. A random
walk on a graph is deﬁned by the sequence of moves of a
particle between nodes of G. If the particle is at node i with
degree di, then the probability that the particle follows the
edge (i, j ) and moves to a neighbor j is 1/d i.
The intuition of our sybil identiﬁcation algorithm is that,
as there is a small cut between the honest region and the
sybil region, the random walks originating from a sybil node
tend to get “trapped” into the sybil region. Also, since we
assume that the size of the sybil region is not comparable to
the size of the honest region, the number of nodes traversed
by the random walks originating from an honest node will be
larger than the number of nodes traversed by the random walks
originating from a sybil node, as long as the random walks are
long enough and we perform the random walks many times.
For simplicity, we deﬁne the number of times one node being
traversed by a set of random walks as the frequency of that
node. Note that one node may be traversed by the same random
walk multiple times.
The sybil identiﬁcation algorithm consists of two phases,
Algorithm 1 and Algorithm 2. The ﬁrst phase takes G and h
as inputs, and outputs the thresholds used by the second phase
to identify sybil nodes. It only needs to be invoked once for
each social network topology. As shown in Algorithm 1, the
Algorithm 1 PreProcessing(G, h )
1: J = {h}
2: for i = 1 to f do
3: Perform a random walk with length ls = log n originating from h
4: J = J ∪ {the ending node of the random walk }
5: end for
6: l = lmin
7: while l < = lmax do
8: for i = J.f irst () to J.last () do
9: Perform R random walks with length l originating from node i
10: Get ni as the number of nodes with frequency no smaller than t
11: end for
12: output ⟨l, mean ({ni : i ∈ J}), stdDeviation ({ni : i ∈ J})⟩
13: l = l + 100
14: end while
algorithm ﬁrst performs f short random walks with length
ls = log n originating from the known honest node h. The f
ending nodes are drawn from the node stationary distribution
of the honest region, since we assume that the honest region
is fast mixing. Following the proof in [20], the ending nodes
are all honest nodes with high probability. After this the
known honest node h and the f ending nodes are treated as
judge nodes , from which the algorithm sets up the criterion
to identify sybil nodes. Note the possibility that sybil nodes
may exist in the group of the judge nodes does not inﬂuence
the effectiveness of the algorithm, due to their very limited
number. Starting from a minimum length lmin to a maximum
length lmax, with an interval of 100 hops, for each length
l, the algorithm performs R (ranging from 1000 to 2000 in
our evaluation) random walks originating from every judge
node, and counts the number of nodes whose frequency is
no smaller than a threshold t, which is a small constant
(5 in our evaluation). The algorithm collects f + 1 such
values for each length l. Then it computes the mean and
standard deviation of the f + 1 values and outputs a tuple
as ⟨l, mean, stdDeviation ⟩.
Algorithm 2 SybilIdentiﬁcation( G, u, tuples f rom Alg. 1)
1: l = l0
2: while l < = lmax do
3: Perform R random walks with length l originating from u
4: m = the number of nodes whose frequency is no smaller than t
5: Let the tuple corresponding to length l in the outputs of Algorithm 1
be ⟨l, mean, stdDeviation ⟩
6: if mean − m > stdDeviation ∗ α then
7: output u is sybil
8: end the algorithm
9: end if
10: l = l ∗ 2
11: end while
12: output u is honest
As shown in Algorithm 2, to determine whether a suspect
node u is sybil, the algorithm ﬁrst performs R random walks
with an initial length l = l0 originating from u. l0 is larger
than or equal to lmin used in Algorithm 1. The algorithm then
compares the number of nodes whose frequency is no smaller
than t with the mean value in tuple ⟨l, mean, stdDeviation ⟩
outputted by Algorithm 1. If the former is smaller than the
latter by an amount larger than stdDeviation ∗ α (α = 20 in

TABLE I
NOTATIONS USED IN THE ANALYSIS
G(V, E ) social graph, V is the set of nodes, E is the set of edges
P transition matrix of the random walk process
n number of honest nodes in G
λ initial state vector of the random walk process
π stationary distribution of G
l random walk length
Ql accumulated probability distribution of the nodes being
traversed by a random walk with length l
t threshold frequency used in the sybil identiﬁcation algorithm
R number of random walks originating from a given node
D(d) number of nodes with degree d
our evaluation), we consider u is sybil and end the algorithm.
Otherwise, the algorithm doubles l and repeats the process,
until l is larger than lmax. If u is still not identiﬁed as sybil
when the value of l reaches lmax, we consider it honest and
end the algorithm.
Given a social graph G(V, E ) and a known honest node h,
lmax, the maximum random walk length that decides when
to end the algorithm, can be determined as follows. We do
R random walks originating from h with length lmax. The
number of nodes with frequency no smaller than t should be
larger than |V |/ 2. Given that we assume the sybil region is
smaller than the honest region, lmax determined in this way
is large enough for R random walks originating from a sybil
node to cover the sybil region, so as to exhibit the difference
between the random walks originating from an honest node
and from a sybil node. Our algorithm adaptively tests the
suspect node while doubling the random walk length each
time. This guarantees that the algorithm can identify the sybil
nodes in differently sized sybil regions: for small sybil regions
short random walks are already enough, while for large regions
long random walks need to be performed, since the footprint
of short random walks in a large sybil region may be similar
to that in the honest region.
1) Analysis of the Sybil Identiﬁcation Algorithm: In this
subsection we investigate the validity of our sybil identiﬁcation
algorithm with theoretical analysis. For the ease of analysis
we list the used notations in Table I. A random walk with
length l on an undirected graph G can be modeled as a
Markov Chain process. The starting state of the random walk
is described as λ, the initial state vector of V . λ v = 1 if v
is the starting node of the random walk, otherwise λ v = 0 .
As deﬁned in Section III, P is the transition matrix of the
random walk process. Therefore, the probability distribution
of the nodes being visited by the ith hop of the random walk
is λP i. Based on our fast-mixing assumption, λP i converges
to the stationary distribution π of G with i ≥ Θ(log n). The
accumulated probability distribution of nodes being traversed
by a random walk with length l is Ql = ∑ l
i=0 λP i, and
(Ql)j, the jth element in vector Ql, is the expected number
of times node j being traversed by a random walk with length
l. Therefore, R ·(Ql)j is the expected number of times node j
being traversed by R random walks with length l originating
from the same honest node, i.e., the expected frequency of j.
 0
 200000
 400000
 600000
 800000
 1e+06
 1.2e+06
 0  5000  10000  15000  20000  25000  30000
# of nodes whose frequency >= 5
random walk length
Pre-processing Results
Caculated Expectation
Fig. 1. pre-processing results and calculated expectation values
 0
 200000
 400000
 600000
 800000
 1e+06
 1.2e+06
 0  5000  10000  15000  20000  25000  30000
# of nodes whose frequency >= 5
random walk length
Pre-processing Results
Theoretical Approximation
Fig. 2. pre-processing results and theoretical approximate results
The pre-processing phase of our sybil identiﬁcation algo-
rithm sets up the criterion to identify sybil nodes by perform-
ing R random walks originating from each judge node with ev-
ery length value l ∈ {lmin, l min + 100, ..., l max}, respectively,
and records the mean and the standard deviation of the number
of traversed nodes with frequency no smaller than t. Deﬁne set
Sl as {j|R·(Ql)j ≥ t}, then |Sl| = |{j| ∑ l
i=0 R·(λP i)j ≥ t}|
is the expected number of nodes whose frequency is no smaller
than t with R l -hop random walks. With a randomly chosen
source node and R = 2000 , based on our Facebook data set,
we calculate |Sl| for different lengths and draw the calculated
expectation curve in Figure 1. To demonstrate the validity
of our sybil identiﬁcation algorithm, we set the number of
judge nodes to be 10 and draw the pre-processing results
curve based on the mean value outputs of the pre-processing
phase in the same ﬁgure. It shows that even with a small
number of judge nodes, the two curves match well when the
random walk length is smaller than 10000 hops. As the random
walk length increases there shows some horizontal segments
in the calculated expectation curve. This is because in a fast-
mixing network, (λP i)j converges to dj
2|E| with i ≥ Θ(log n),
where dj is the degree of node j and E is the set of edges.
This means that with l ≥ Θ(log n) the value of ∑ l
i=0(λP i)j
for all the nodes with the same degree increases by the
same amount when l increases by 1, and thus their expected
frequency, ∑ l
i=0 R ·(λP i)j, will reach the threshold t at the
same random walk length, which leads to the jumps in the
calculated expectation curve. Note that although the calculated
expectation curve is divided into horizontal segments when the

random walk length is large, its inﬂection points still match
well with the pre-processing results curve. Figure 1 illustrates
that with a small number of judge nodes and limited R, the
results derived from the pre-processing phase of the sybil
identiﬁcation algorithm are already accurate enough to match
with the expectation values.
Moreover, we will show that the results derived from the
pre-processing phase starting from a random honest node are
generic enough to serve as the criterion to identify sybil nodes.
Since the network is fast mixing, given a random starting node,
i.e., a random initial state vector λ, we have
Ql =
l∑
i=0
λP i
≈ λ + λP + ... + λP Θ(log n)−1 + π + ... + π/bracehtipupleft /bracehtipdownright/bracehtipdownleft /bracehtipupright
l−Θ(log n)+1
≈ lπ.
Besides, π j = dj
2|E| , then we have (Ql)j ≈ l dj
2|E| . Recall that
R ·(Ql)j is the expected frequency of node j. To make this
value no smaller than t, we have
R ·(Ql)j ≈ R ·l dj
2|E| ≥ t ⇒ dj ≥ 2t|E|
lR . (1)
Deﬁne S′
l = {j|dj ≥ 2t|E|
lR }. Then |S′
l| is the approximate
number of nodes whose frequency is no smaller than t with R
l-hop random walks. Let D(d) be the number of nodes with
degree d. Then
|S′
l| =
max∑
d=⌈ 2t|E|
lR ⌉
D(d). (2)
Following Equation 2 we draw the theoretical approximation
curve in Figure 2 based on our Facebook data set, and we
compare it with the pre-processing results curve identical
to that in Figure 1. Note that Equation 2 is irrelevant to
the initial state vector λ, so the shape of the theoretical
approximation curve does not rely on the starting node. Figure
2 shows that the pre-processing results also match well with
the theoretical approximate results. Similar to the caculated
expectation curve, there are horizonal segments in the theo-
retical approximation curve. This is because node degrees are
integers and l needs to increase by a certain amount such that
the value of 2t|E|
lR reaches the next integer. Nevertheless, the
middle point of each horizonal segment still matches with the
pre-processing results curve. Figure 2 illustrates that the pre-
processing results drawn from a random honest node can be
effectively used as the criterion to identify sybil nodes.
To gain an understanding of the difference between the
footprint of random walks originating from an honest node
and from a sybil node, assume ϕ is the expected number of
hops for the random walks starting from a sybil node to enter
the honest region. If we draw the curve for the number of
nodes with frequency no smaller than t based on the random
walks starting from that sybil node, it is approximately like
moving the pre-processing results curve in Figures 1 and 2
to the right by ϕ and then raising it by the size of the sybil
region. In the evaluation we will show that this difference is
large enough to identify the sybil nodes.
B. Sybil Community Detection Algorithm
After one sybil node is identiﬁed, our sybil community
detection algorithm can be used to detect the sybil community
surrounding it. The sybil community detection algorithm takes
the social graph G(V, E ) and a known sybil node s as inputs,
and outputs the sybil community around s. The sybil node s
can be identiﬁed by our sybil identiﬁcation algorithm or any
previous scheme. We deﬁne a sybil community as a subgraph
of G consisting of only sybil nodes, and there is no small cut
in this subgraph. The reason why we make this deﬁnition is
that if a small cut does divide the sybil region into two parts
S1 and S2, and the known sybil node s is in S1, then, from
the point of view of s, the honest region and S2 are similar,
since there is already a small cut between S1 and the honest
region and also a small cut between S1 and S2. When there
is a small cut in the sybil region, our algorithm can detect the
sybil community s belongs to.
Our algorithm relies on performing partial random walks
originating from s. Each partial random walk behaves the same
as the standard random walks used in the previous subsection,
except that it does not traverse the same node more than
once. Therefore, when a partial random walk reaches a node
with all the neighbors traversed by itself, this partial random
walk is “dead” and cannot proceed. This property makes a
partial random walk originating from a sybil node less likely
to leave the sybil region, compared with a standard random
walk, since many such walks “die” when they hit the border of
the sybil region. Similar to the sybil identiﬁcation algorithm,
the intuition behind this algorithm is that the partial random
walks originating from a sybil node tend to be trapped within
the sybil region, and thus we can detect the sybil community
by examining the nodes traversed by the partial random walks.
Algorithm 3 WalkLengthEstimation(G, s )
1: l = l0/ 2
2: deadW alkRatio = 0
3: while deadW alkRatio < β do
4: l = l ∗ 2
5: deadW alkN um = 0
6: for i = 1 to R do
7: Perform a partial random walk originating from s with length l
8: if the partial random walk is dead before it reaches l hops then
9: deadW alkN um++
10: end if
11: end for
12: deadW alkRatio = deadW alkN um / R
13: end while
14: output l
The sybil community detection algorithm consists of two
phases, Algorithm 3 and Algorithm 4. The task of Algorithm 3
is to estimate the needed length of the partial random walks
used in Algorithm 4. Starting from an initial length l0, the
algorithm performs R partial random walks originating from
s and counts the ratio of dead walks, which are the walks

that cannot proceed before they reach the required length.
If this ratio is smaller than β , a threshold close to 1 (0.95
in our evaluation), the algorithm doubles the current length
and performs the partial random walks again. This process is
repeated until the dead walk ratio is no smaller than β . Then
the algorithm outputs the current random walk length l. The
reasoning is that the number of untraversed sybil nodes is very
small (often equals to 0 in our evaluation) when the dead walk
ratio is close to 1 and with a relatively large R (2000 in our
evaluation).
Algorithm 4 SybilRegionDetection(G, s, l f rom Alg. 3)
1: Set the frequency of all the nodes to be 0
2: for i = 1 to R do
3: Perform a partial random walk originating from node s with length l
4: s.f requency ++
5: for j = 1 to l do
6: Let the jth hop of the partial random walk be node k
7: k.f requency ++
8: end for
9: end for
10: traversedList = Sort the traversed nodes by their frequency in de-
creasing order
11: counter = 0
12: S = ∅
13: do
14: counter = conductance( S)
15: for i = traversedList.f irst () to traversedList.last () do
16: if node i ∈ S then
17: continue
18: end if
19: if conductance({i} ∪ S) <= conductance(S) then
20: S = {i} ∪ S
21: end if
22: end for
23: while (counter > conductance(S))
24: output S
Algorithm 4 takes G, s, and the estimated length l as inputs
and outputs the sybil community surrounding s. The reason
why we need Algorithm 4 is that not all the nodes traversed
by the partial random random walks in Algorithm 3 are sybil
nodes, as some walks pass the small cut and enter the honest
region, and we need an algorithm to select the sybil nodes
from the set of traversed nodes. To achieve this, Algorithm 4
leverages a metric called conductance [9], deﬁned as follows.
Let d be the sum of the degrees of all the nodes in set S,
and a be the number of edges with one endpoint in S and
one endpoint in S. Then the conductance of S is a/d . The
conductance of a set S measures the quality of the cut between
S and S: the smaller the conductance is, the smaller the cut is.
Since we assume that there is a small cut between the honest
region and the sybil region, using conductance as the objective
of the greedy algorithm ﬁts the problem well. In this algorithm
we let the conductance of an empty set be 1.
Algorithm 4 runs by ﬁrst performing R partial random
walks originating from the known sybil node s, with the
length decided by Algorithm 3. Then the algorithm sorts all
the traversed nodes by their frequency in decreasing order.
Starting from the ﬁrst node, which is always s, the algorithm
iterates the sorted list and adds the encountered node to set S if
doing so does not increase the conductance of S. After all the
nodes in the sorted list are examined, the algorithm records the
current conductance value, starts a new iteration from the top
of the list and examines each node that is not in S. This process
is repeated until the conductance value stays the same at the
end of two consecutive iterations. Then the algorithm outputs
S as the detected sybil community. The intuition is that by
performing the partial random walks originating from a sybil
node with suitable length many times, the sybil community
surrounding the sybil node is covered by the partial random
walks. Also, the sybil nodes tend to be in front of the honest
nodes in the sorted list, since a large number of partial random
walks cannot enter the honest region. As a result, the greedy
algorithm will ﬁrst try to add the nodes that are more likely
sybil to S. This algorithm only relies on performing R partial
random walks originating from a sybil node, which makes it
very efﬁcient and scalable to large-sized social networks.
C. Limiting the Number of Attack Edges
It has been shown that not all the relationships in online
social networks are trusted [5]. One approach to limiting the
number of attack edges in these networks is to allow the users
to rate their relationships. To demonstrate this we develop a
Facebook application named Rate Your Relationships [2]. The
users of the application can rate each of their relations on
Facebook either as “Friend” or “Stranger”, where “Stranger”
means the user hardly has any impression about this relation.
The number of attack edges can be limited by removing the
relationships rated as stranger from the social graph when
applying the sybil defense schemes. The rationale is that
even if an adversary can create many links between the sybil
identities and the honest identities, it is hard for him to
convince the honest users that those sybil identities are their
acquaintances. The survey results of our Facebook application
are presented in Section V -D.
We can also use the concept of activity network [13], [15] to
limit the number of attack edges. Activity network is a network
graph that is based on the interaction between users, rather
than mere relationship. Two nodes share an edge in an activity
network if and only if they have interacted directly through
the communication mechanisms or applications provided by
the corresponding social network. If the sybil defense schemes
leverage the topologies of the activity networks, the number
of attack edges an adversary can create can be further limited.
V. E VALUATION
A. Data Sets and Experiment Setup
In this section we evaluate the effectiveness of SybilDe-
fender using two data sets [10], [15] from Orkut and Facebook,
respectively. The Orkut data set consists of 3,072,441 nodes
and 117,185,083 edges, with an average degree of 76.28,
while the Facebook data set consists of 3,097,165 nodes and
28,377,481 edges, with an average degree of 18.32. To the
best of our knowledge, these are the largest data sets that have
ever been used in evaluating the sybil defense schemes that
leverage social network topologies.

 0
 100000
 200000
 300000
 400000
 500000
 600000
 700000
 0  2000  4000  6000  8000  10000
# of nodes whose frequency >= 5
random walk length
Honest
Sybil
Honest
Sybil
Fig. 3. Difference between the coverage of random walks originating from
honest nodes and from sybil nodes
In the experiments we use two models to construct the sybil
regions respectively: the preferential attachment (PA) model
[4] and the Erd ¨os-R´enyi (ER) model [8]. Both models are
widely used in network analysis. The networks constructed
with the PA model are scale free, which means their node de-
grees follow a power-law distribution, a well accepted property
of social networks [10], [15]. It has been used in previous
research to build the sybil regions [6], [14]. The topologies
built through the ER model, on the other hand, are random
networks with no particular bias, which emulate the arbitrary
structures of the sybil regions. In our experiments, to build
a sybil region and connect it to a real-world social network
sample, we follow the suggestion by Y u et al. [20] that the
most effective way for an adversary to launch a sybil attack is
to ﬁrst compromise a small number of existing nodes, so as to
quickly increase the number of attack edges. We ﬁrst randomly
select nodes from the data set to be compromised nodes, until
the number of edges between the compromised nodes and
the other nodes is g0, which is the number of attack edges.
The compromised nodes are all sybil nodes. They introduce
γ additional sybil nodes, and establish a connected scale-
free topology through the PA model, or a connected random
topology through the ER model among all the sybil nodes. We
label all the other nodes in the data set as honest nodes. The
average degree of the sybil region built with the PA model
is set to be equal to the average degree of the corresponding
data set, while the average degree of the sybil region built
with the ER model ranges from 8 to 11, representing a sparse
topology compared with the realistic social networks. Note that
in the evaluation of some previous schemes, the social network
samples are ﬁrst pre-processed by removing the nodes with
small degrees [6], [19], to prevent such nodes from degrading
the effectiveness of these schemes. Instead, we do not make
any modiﬁcation on the published data sets.
B. Evaluation of the Sybil Identiﬁcation Algorithm
Y u et al. [19] proved that for all the sybil defense mecha-
nisms that leverage the fast-mixing property, the number of
admitted sybil nodes per attack edge is lower bounded by
Ω(1) . In this subsection we will show that the performance of
our sybil identiﬁcation algorithm approaches this theoretical
bound, and our algorithm outperforms SybilLimit by one to
two orders of magnitude in both accuracy and running time.
The intuition of our sybil identiﬁcation algorithm is that,
because of the existence of a small cut between the honest
region and the sybil region, there is a difference between the
coverage of random walks originating from an honest node and
from a sybil node. Figure 3 illustrates this difference. Here,
we use the PA model to construct the sybil region. We set the
size of the sybil region to be 10000 nodes, and the number
of attack edges to be 1000. In the experiments we perform
1000 random walks originating from each randomly selected
source node. The upper curve in Figure 3 is the number of
nodes traversed by random walks originating from an honest
node no smaller than 5 times, while the lower curve is the
number of nodes traversed by random walks originating from
a sybil node no smaller than 5 times. Each point in the curves
represents the mean value of 20 experiments. It is easy to
see that the difference is larger than 200,000 nodes when
the random walk length reaches 10000 hops. As described
in Algorithm 2, we use τ = mean − α ∗ stdDeviation as
the threshold to identify sybil nodes. In our experiments we
observe that stdDeviation < 1500, so the sybil nodes can be
identiﬁed even with a relatively large α , to limit the number
of falsely identiﬁed honest nodes.
To evaluate our sybil identiﬁcation algorithm, the parame-
ters we used in the experiments are as follows: lmin = 100 ,
lmax = 10000 , l0 = 1000 , t = 5 , α = 20 , ls = 20 , f = 100 ,
R ∈ {1000, 1500, 2000}. When building the sybil regions, we
set the number of attack edges to be 1000. We deﬁne the false
positive rate as the percentage of the honest nodes identiﬁed
to be sybil, and the false negative rate as the percentage of
the sybil nodes identiﬁed to be honest. In the experiments we
obtain the false positive and negative rates of our algorithm.
As we use large-scale topologies in the experiments, it is
infeasible to examine all the honest nodes to get the exact
false positive rate. To estimate the false positive rate of the
algorithm, in each experiment we randomly select 1000 honest
nodes as suspects and use our sybil identiﬁcation algorithm to
test them. To get the false negative rate, in each experiment we
use our algorithm to test every sybil node. In the experiments
we vary the number of sybil nodes per attack edge. For each
value we evaluate the algorithm on two real-world topologies,
using two sybil region construction models, and with three
values of R, the number of random walks performed in the
algorithm, respectively.
Table II shows the results when each attack edge introduces
10 sybil nodes and 5 sybil nodes, respectively. It is easy to
see that our algorithm achieves very low false positive and
negative rates in all the cases. We ﬁnd that all the sybil nodes
that cannot be correctly identiﬁed are compromised nodes, as
they are on the small cut between the honest region and the
sybil region. Similarly, all the falsely identiﬁed honest nodes
are close to the small cut.
Table III shows the results when each attack edge introduces
only one sybil node. The false negative rate for the Facebook
data set is higher than the results shown in Table II. This is
because the difference between the coverage of the random
walks originating from an honest node and from a sybil node
becomes smaller compared with the cases when each attack

TABLE II
FALSE POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE RATES OF THE SYBIL IDENTIFICATION ALGORITHM
10 sybil nodes per attack edge (10000 sybil nodes) 5 sybil nodes per attack edge (5000 sybil nodes)
Orkut Facebook Orkut Facebook
PA Model ER Model PA Model ER Model PA Model ER Model PA Model ER Model
F + F − F + F − F + F − F + F − F + F − F + F − F + F − F + F −
1000RWs 0 0 0 0.11% 0 0.07% 0.1% 0.16% 0 0.02% 0 0.28% 0 0.22% 0.1% 0.54%
1500RWs 0 0.01% 0 0.11% 0.4% 0.08% 0.2% 0.1% 0 0.02% 0 0.32% 0.3% 0.12% 0.2% 0.44%
2000RWs 0 0 0 0.04% 0.3% 0.1% 0.5% 0.1% 0 0 0 0.22% 0.5% 0.04% 0.5% 0.4%
TABLE III
1 SYBIL NODE PER ATTACK EDGE FALSE POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE RATES
Orkut Facebook
PA Model PA Model
F + F − F + F −
1000RWs 0 0.6% 0% 6.2%
1500RWs 0 0.7% 0.4% 4.4%
2000RWs 0 0.2% 0% 1.4%
10000 sybils F+ 5000 sybils F+ 1000 sybils F+ 10000 sybils F− 5000 sybils F− 1000 sybils F−
0
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%false rate
 
 
SybilDefender
SybilLimit
0 1.4%
15.16%
1.4%
61.3%
8.55%
1.5% 1.2%0.3% 0.1%0.5% 0.04%
Fig. 4. Comparison between the false positive and negative rates of
SybilDefender and those of SybilLimit
TABLE IV
FALSE RATES OF SYBIL LIMIT ON THE FACEBOOK DATA SET
PA Model ER Model
F + F − F + F −
10000 sybils 1.5% 8.55% 0.6% 15.35%
5000 sybils 1.2% 15.16% 1.4% 32.62%
1000 sybils 1.4% 61.3% 0.8% 85.3%
edge introduces more sybil nodes. The experimental results
show that our sybil identiﬁcation algorithm can identify nearly
all the sybil nodes when each attack edge introduces 10 or
5 sybil nodes, and an overwhelming majority of sybil nodes
when each attack edge introduces 1 sybil node, both with very
low false positive rate.
1) Comparison with existing schemes: We fully imple-
mented SybilLimit and evaluated it using our Facebook data
set. Following the method in [19], we found the optimal
parameters for SybilLimit on the Facebook data set. We set w,
the length of random routes, to be 20 hops, and r, the number
of instances of the random route generation protocol, to be
10000. Table IV lists SybilLimit’s false positive and negative
rates when each attack edge introduces 10 sybil nodes, 5 sybil
nodes, and 1 sybil node, respectively. The results show that
when each attack edge introduces one sybil node, SybilLimit
accepts the majority of the sybil nodes.
Figure 4 compares the false positive and negative rates of
SybilDefender with those of SybilLimit, when the sybil region
is built with the PA model. It is easy to see that in all the three
cases the false positive rate of SybilDefender is lower than that
of SybilLimit, and the false negative rate of SybilDefender
is lower than that of SybilLimit by one to two orders of
magnitude. The reason is SybilLimit assumes that almost
all the short random routes originating from an honest node
will stay within the honest region, and it bounds the number
of admitted sybil nodes by the number of attack edges and
random route length. When each attack edge introduces few
sybil nodes, SybilLimit cannot effectively identify the sybil
nodes. On the other hand, SybilDefender interprets the small
cut between the honest region and the sybil region as a bias in
the coverage of the random walks originating from an honest
node and from a sybil node. It can effectively identify the
sybil nodes even when the number of sybil nodes introduced
by each attack edge approaches the theoretical lower bound.
On one core of an Intel Xeon 2.93GHz processor, the
average running time to test one sybil node by SybilDefender,
with R = 2000, is 0.87 seconds, comparing to 11.56 seconds
by SybilLimit. The average running time to test one honest
node by SybilDefender is 7.11 seconds, comparing to 83.55
seconds by SybilLimit. The reason why SybilDefender is faster
than SybilLimit by more than 10 times is that SybilLimit
invokes a large number ( r = 10000 for our Facebook data
set) of instances of the random route generation protocol [19].
Within each instance a random routing table is generated for
every node in the social graph. By contrast, SybilDefender
only relies on performing a limited number of random walks.
Viswanath et al. proposed using a community detection
algorithm [14] as the ranking algorithm to investigate the
similarity between different sybil defense schemes. We eval-
uated their algorithm using our two data sets, and found
that the algorithm alone cannot be used to identify the sybil
nodes. The reason is that the algorithm starts from an honest
node and iteratively adds nodes that improves the normalized
conductance at each step. In our evaluation the normalized
conductance always reaches the ﬁrst inﬂection point after
adding only several honest nodes. As a result, their algorithm
cannot distinguish the sybil nodes from the honest nodes
without providing a cutoff point.
We also evaluated Gatekeeper [12] using our data sets,
which heavily relies on the assumption that the social networks
are random expander. This assumption is stronger than our
fast-mixing assumption and has not been validated in previous
research, which makes Gatekeeper suffer from high false
positive and negative rates on the real-world social topologies
that exhibit asymmetries. For example, on our Facebook data

TABLE V
PERFORMANCE OF THE SYBIL COMMUNITY DETECTION ALGORITHM
10 sybil nodes per attack edge (10000 sybils)
Percentage of Number of falsely
found sybil nodes detected honest nodes
Orkut Facebook Orkut Facebook
PA model 99.91% 99.82% 0.3 0.3
ER model 99.85% 99.84% 0 0.7
1 sybil node per attack edge (1000 sybils)
Percentage of Number of falsely
found sybil nodes detected honest nodes
Orkut Facebook Orkut Facebook
PA model 99.4% 98.4% 0.1 1.1
ER model 98.7% 98.3% 0.1 0.3
set with a 10000-node sybil region built through the PA model,
the average false positive rate of Gatekeeper is 11.7%, and the
average false negative rate is 17.2%. When the sybil region
is built with the ER model, the average false positive rate is
11.7%, and the average false negative rate is 14.7%. In the
evaluation we used the parameters ( m = 100 , f admit = 0 . 2)
recommended by [12] and repeated each experiment 20 times.
C. Evaluation of the Sybil Community Detection Algorithm
To evaluate our sybil community detection algorithm, the
parameters we used in the experiments are as follows: l0 =
100, β = 0 . 95, R = 2000 . We test the algorithm on two
social topologies, with the sybil region built through two
models, respectively. The number of attack edges is 1000,
and the size of the sybil region depends on how many sybil
nodes are introduced by each attack edge. As the goal of our
sybil community detection algorithm is to detect the sybil
community surrounding a known sybil node, when running
each experiment we randomly select a sybil node as the
starting node of our algorithm, and we get the percentage of
the sybil nodes that can be detected, as well as the number
of the honest nodes that are falsely detected. We repeat each
experiment 20 times and calculate the mean value. Table V
shows the results when each attack edge introduces 10 sybil
nodes and 1 sybil node, respectively. It is easy to see that our
algorithm can detect an overwhelming majority of the sybil
region in all the experiments, and on average less than 1 honest
node is falsely detected in each experiment. The undetected
sybil nodes are all compromised nodes, the sybil nodes directly
connecting to the honest nodes through attack edges. Our sybil
community detection algorithm achieves high accuracy with
short running time. For example, it takes 16 seconds to detect
an 10000-node sybil region connecting to the Facebook data
set on one core of an Intel Xeon 2.93GHz processor.
D. Survey Results of the Facebook Application
To investigate the user experience of our Facebook applica-
tion, we carried out a survey through the Amazon Mechanical
Turk platform [1]. In the survey we asked the respondents to
use our application to rate all the relations in their Facebook
friend lists. We get the results from 214 respondents. Their
average number of relations is 118, and the average time to
ﬁnish the survey is 249 seconds. This indicates that it does
not take long for the online social network users to rate their
relationships. The average percentage of strangers among all
the relations is 19.8%, which shows that the assumption made
by previous work that all the links in social networks are
trusted does not apply to online social networks. In the survey
76.6% of the respondents would like to rate their relationships
when they know this can help to defend against malicious
users. This shows that relationship rating is a promising way
to limit the capacity of the adversary to create attack edges.
VI. C ONCLUSION
We present SybilDefender, a scheme that leverages the
network topologies to defend against sybil attacks in large
social networks. Our evaluation shows that SybilDefender can
correctly identify the sybil nodes even when the number of
sybil nodes introduced by each attack edge approaches the
theoretically detectable lower bound, and it can effectively
detect the sybil community surrounding a sybil node with
different sizes and structures.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank all the reviewers for their
helpful comments. This project was supported in part by
US National Science Foundation grants CNS-1117412 and
CAREER Award CNS-0747108.
REFERENCES
[1] Amazon mechanical turk. https://www.mturk.com/mturk.
[2] Rate your relationships. http://apps.facebook.com/ratingrelationships/.
[3] The top 500 sites on the web. http://www.alexa.com/topsites.
[4] R. Albert and A. Barab ´asi. Statistical mechanics of complex networks.
Rev. Mod. Phys , 74:47–97, 2002.
[5] L. Bilge, T. Strufe, D. Balzarotti, and E. Kirda. All your contacts are
belong to us: automated identity theft attacks on social networks. In
WWW, 2009.
[6] G. Danezis and P . Mit. Sybilinfer: Detecting sybil nodes using social
networks. In NDSS, 2009.
[7] J. R. Douceur. The sybil attack. In IPTPS, 2002.
[8] P . Erd ¨os and A. R ´enyi. On random graphs. Publicationes Mathemticae
(Debrecen), 6:290–297, 1959.
[9] R. Kannan, S. V empala, and A. V etta. On clusterings: Good, bad and
spectral. In FOCS, 2000.
[10] A. Mislove, M. Marcon, K. P . Gummadi, P . Druschel, and B. Bhat-
tacharjee. Measurement and analysis of online social networks. In
ACM/USENIX IMC , 2007.
[11] M. Mitzenmacher and E. Upfal. Probability and Computing . Cambridge
University Press, 2005.
[12] N. Tran, J. Li, L. Subramanian, and S. S.M. Chow. Optimal sybil-
resilient node admission control. In IEEE INFOCOM , 2011.
[13] B. Viswanath, A. Mislove, M. Cha, and K. P . Gummadi. On the evolution
of user interaction in facebook. In SIGCOMM WOSN , 2009.
[14] B. Viswanath, A. Post, K. P . Gummadi, and A. Mislove. An analysis of
social network-based sybil defenses. In SIGCOMM, 2010.
[15] C. Wilson, B. Boe, A. Sala, K. P . N. Puttaswamy, and B. Y . Zhao. User
interactions in social networks and their implications. In EuroSys, 2009.
[16] K. Xing and X. Cheng. From time domain to space domain: Detecting
replica attacks in mobile ad hoc networks. In IEEE INFOCOM , 2010.
[17] K. Xing, F. Liu, X. Cheng, and D. H. Du. Realtime detection of clone
attacks in wireless sensor networks. In IEEE ICDCS , 2008.
[18] L. Xu, S. Chainan, H. Takizawa, and H. Kobayashi. Resisting sybil
attack by social network and network clustering. In SAINT, 2010.
[19] H. Y u, P . B. Gibbons, M. Kaminsky, and F. Xiao. Sybillimit: A near-
optimal social network defense against sybil attacks. In IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy , 2008.
[20] H. Y u, M. Kaminsky, P . B. Gibbons, and A. Flaxman. Sybilguard:
defending against sybil attacks via social networks. In SIGCOMM, 2006.