Eﬃcient veriﬁable delay functions
Benjamin Wesolowski
École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne
EPFL IC LACAL, Station 14, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
Abstract. We construct a veriﬁable delay function (VDF). A VDF is a
function whose evaluation requires running a given number of sequential
steps, yet the result can be eﬃciently veriﬁed. They have applications
in decentralised systems, such as the generation of trustworthy public
randomness in a trustless environment, or resource-eﬃcient blockchains.
To construct our VDF, we actually build atrapdoor VDF. A trapdoor
VDF is essentially a VDF which can be evaluated eﬃciently by parties
who know a secret (the trapdoor). By setting up this scheme in a way
that the trapdoor is unknown (not even by the party running the setup,
so that there is no need for a trusted setup environment), we obtain
a simple VDF. Our construction is based on groups of unknown order
such as an RSA group, or the class group of an imaginary quadratic ﬁeld.
The output of our construction is very short (the result and the proof of
correctness are each a single element of the group), and the veriﬁcation
of correctness is very eﬃcient.
1 Introduction
We describe a function that is slow to compute and easy to verify: averiﬁable
delay function(henceforth, VDF) in the sense of [4]1. These functions should be
computable in a prescribed amount of time∆, but not faster (thetime measures
an amount of sequential work, that is work that cannot be performed faster by
running on a large number of parallel cores), and the result should be easy to
verify (i.e., for a costpolylog(∆)). These special functions are used in [15] (under
the name ofslow-timed hash functions) to construct a trustworthy randomness
beacon: a service producing publicly veriﬁable random numbers, which are guar-
anteed to be unbiased and unpredictable. These randomness beacons, introduced
by Rabin in [17], are a valuable tool in a public, decentralised setting, as it is not
trivial for someone to ﬂip a coin and convince their peers that the outcome was
not rigged. A number of interesting applications of VDFs have recently emerged
— see [4] for an overview. Most notably, they can be used to design resource-
eﬃcient blockchains, eliminating the need for massively power-consuming mining
farms. VDFs play a key role in the Chia blockchain design (chia.net), and the
Ethereum Foundation (ethereum.org) and Protocol Labs (protocol.ai) are
1 The paper [4] was developed independently of the present work, yet we adopt their
terminology for veriﬁable delay functions, for the sake of uniformity.

teaming up to investigate the technology of VDFs which promise to play a key
role in their respective platforms.
There is thereby a well-motivated need for an eﬃcient construction. This
problem was left open in [4], and we address it here with a new, simple, and
eﬃcient VDF.
1.1 Contribution
An eﬃcient construction. The starting point of our construction is the time-
lock puzzle of Rivest, Shamir and Wagner [18]: given as input an RSA group
(Z/NZ)×, whereN is a product of two large, secret primes, a random element
x∈ (Z/NZ)×, and a timing parametert, computex2t
. Without the factorisation
ofN, this task requirest sequential squarings in the group. More generally, one
could work with any groupG of unknown order. This construction is only a
time-lock puzzle and not a VDF, because given an outputy, there is no eﬃcient
way to verify thaty =x2t
.
The new VDF construction consists in solving an instance of the time-lock
puzzle of [18], and computing a proof of correctness, which allows anyone to
eﬃciently verify the result. Fix a timing parameter∆, a security levelk (say,
128, 192, or 256), and a groupG. Our construction has the following properties:
1. It is∆-sequential (meaning that it requires∆ sequential steps to evaluate)
assuming the classic time-lock assumption of [18] in the groupG.
2. It is sound (meaning that one cannot produce a valid proof for an incorrect
output) under some group theoretic assumptions onG, believed to be true
for RSA groups and class groups of quadratic imaginary number ﬁelds.
3. Theoutputandtheproofofcorrectnessareeachasingleelementofthegroup
G (also, the output can be recovered from the proof and a2k-bit integer; so
it is possible to transmit a single group element and a small integer instead
of 2 group elements).
4. The veriﬁcation of correctness requires essentially two exponentiations in the
group G, with exponents of bit-length2k.
5. The proof can be produced inO(∆/ log(∆)) group operations.
For applications where a lot of these proofs need to be stored, widely dis-
tributed, and repeatedly veriﬁed, having very short and eﬃciently veriﬁable
proofs is invaluable.
Following discussions about the present work at the August 2018 workshop
at Stanford hosted by the Ethereum Foundation and the Stanford Center for
Blockchain Research, we note that our construction features two other useful
properties: the proofs can beaggregated and watermarked. Aggregating consists
in producing a single short proof that simultaneously proves the correctness of
several VDF evaluations. Watermarking consists in tying a proof to the evalua-
tor’s identity; in a blockchain setting, this allows to give credit (and a reward) to
the party who spent time and resources evaluating the VDF. These properties
2

are discussed in Section 7.
Note that the method we describe to compute the proof requires an amount
O(∆/ log(∆)) group operations. Hence, there is an interval between the guaran-
teed sequential work∆ and the total work(1 +ε)∆, whereε = O(1/ log(∆)).
For practical parameters, thisε is in the order of0.05, and this small part of
the computation is easily parallelizable, so that the total evaluation time with
s cores is around (1 + 1/(20s))∆. This gap should be of no importance since
anyways, computational models do not capture well small constant factors with
respect to real-world running time. Precise timing is unlikely to be achievable
without resorting to trusted hardware, thus applications of VDFs are designed
not to be too sensitive to these small factors.
If despite these facts it is still problematic in some application to know the
output of the VDF slightly before having the proof, it is possible to eliminate
this gap by artiﬁcially considering the proof as part of the output (the output is
now a pair of group elements, and the proof is empty). The resulting protocol is
still∆-sequential (trivially), and as noted in Remark 5, it is also sound. We also
propose a second method in Section 4.3 which allows to exponentially reduce
the overhead of the proof computation at the cost of lengthening the resulting
proof by a few group elements.
Trapdoor veriﬁable delay function.The construction proposed is actually atrap-
door VDF, from which we can derive an actual VDF. A party, Alice, holds a
secret key sk (the trapdoor), and an associated public keypk. Given a piece of
datax, a trapdoor VDF allows to compute an outputy fromx such that anyone
can easily verify that eithery has been computed by Alice (i.e., she used her
secret trapdoor), or the computation ofy required an amount of time at least
∆ (where, again, time is measured as an amount of sequential work). The veri-
ﬁcation thaty is the correct output of the VDF for inputx should be eﬃcient,
with a costpolylog(∆).
Deriving a veriﬁable delay function.Suppose that a public keypk for a trapdoor
VDF is given without any known associated secret key. This results in a simple
VDF, where the evaluation requires a prescribed amount of time∆ for everyone
(because there is no known trapdoor).
Now,howtopubliclygenerateapublickeywithoutanyknownassociatedpri-
vate key? In the construction we propose, this amounts to the public generation
of a group of unknown order. A standard choice for such groups are RSA groups,
but it is hard to generate an RSA number (a product of two large primes) with a
strong guarantee that nobody knows the factorisation. It is possible to generate
a random number large enough that with high probability it is divisible by two
large primes (as done in [19]), but this approach severely damages the eﬃciency
of the construction, and leaves more room for parallel optimisation of the arith-
metic modulo a large integer, or for specialised hardware acceleration. It is also
possible to generate a modulus by a secure multiparty execution of the RSA key
3

generation procedure among independent parties, each contributing some secret
random seeds (as done in [6]). However, in this scenario, a third party would
have to assume that the parties involved in this computation did not collude to
retrieve the secret. We propose to use the class group of an imaginary quadratic
order. One can easily generate an imaginary quadratic order by choosing a ran-
dom discriminant, and when the discriminant is large enough, the order of the
class group cannot be computed. These class groups were introduced in cryptog-
raphy by Buchmann and Williams in [9], exploiting the diﬃculty of computing
their orders (and the fact that this order problem is closely related to the discrete
logarithm and the root problems in this group). To this day, the best known al-
gorithms for computing the order of the class group of an imaginary quadratic
ﬁeld of discriminantd are still of complexityL|d|(1/2) under the generalised Rie-
mann hypothesis, for the usual functionLt(s) = exp
(
O
(
log(t)s log log(t)1−s))
,
as shown in [14] and [20].
Circumventing classic impossibility results.Finally, we further motivate the no-
tion oftrapdoor VDF by showing that it constitutes an original tool to circum-
vent classic impossibility results. We illustrate this in Section 8 with a simple
and eﬃcient identiﬁcation protocol with surprising zero-knowledge and deniabil-
ity properties.
1.2 Time-sensitive cryptography and related work
Rivest, Shamir and Wagner [18] introduced in 1996 the use oftime-locks for
encryptingdatathatcanbedecryptedonlyinapredeterminedtimeinthefuture.
This was the ﬁrst time-sensitive cryptographic primitive taking into account the
parallel power of possible attackers. Other timed primitives appeared in diﬀerent
contexts: Bellare and Goldwasser [1,2] suggestedtime capsulesfor key escrowing
in order to counter the problem of early recovery. Boneh and Naor [7] introduced
timed commitments: a hiding and binding commitment scheme, which can be
forced openby a procedure of determined running time. More recently, and as
already mentioned, the notion of slow-timed hash function was introduced in
[15] as a tool to provide trust to the generation of public random numbers.
Veriﬁable delay functions.These slow-timed hash functions were recently revis-
ited and formalised by Bonehet al. in [4] under the name of veriﬁable delay
functions. The function proposed in [15],sloth, is not asymptotically eﬃciently
veriﬁable: the veriﬁcation procedure (givenx and y, verify that sloth(x) = y)
is faster than the evaluation procedure (givenx, compute the value sloth(x))
only by a constant factor. The authors of [4] proposed practical constructions
that achieve an exponential gap between evaluation and veriﬁcation, but do not
strictly achieve the requirements of a VDF. For one of them, the evaluation
requires an amount polylog(∆) of parallelism to run in parallel time∆. The
other one is insecure against an adversary that can run a large (but feasible)
pre-computation, so the setup must be regularly updated. The new construction
we propose does not suﬀer these disadvantages.
4

Pietrzak’s veriﬁable delay function.Independently from the present work, an-
other eﬃcient VDF was proposed in [16]. The author describes an elegant con-
struction, provably secure under the classic time-lock assumption of [18] when
implemented over an RSA group(Z/NZ)× where N is a product of two safe
primes. The philosophy of [16] is close to our construction: it consists in solving
the puzzle of [18] (for a timing parameter∆), and computing a proof of correct-
ness. Their proofs can be computed withO(
√
∆ log(∆)) group multiplications.
However, the proofs obtained are much longer (they consist ofO(log(∆)) group
elements, versus a single group element in our construction), and the veriﬁcation
procedure is less eﬃcient (it requiresO(log(∆)) group exponentiations, versus
essentially two group exponentiations in our construction — for exponents of
bit-length the security levelk in both cases).
In the example given in [18], the groupG is an RSA group for a 2048 bit
modulus, and the time ∆ is set to 240 sequential squarings in the group, so
the proofs are 10KB long. In comparison, in the same setting, our proofs are
0.25KB long.
1.3 Notation
Throughout this paper, the integerk denotes a security level (typically128, 192,
or 256), and the mapH :{0, 1}∗→{ 0, 1}2k denotes a secure cryptographic hash
function. For simplicity of exposition, the functionH is regarded as a map from
A∗ to{0, 1}2k, where A∗ is the set of strings over some alphabetA such that
{0, 1} ⊂A. The alphabet A contains at least all nine digits and twenty-six
letters, and a special character ⋆. Given two strings s1,s 2 ∈ A∗, denote by
s1||s2 their concatenation, and bys1|||s2 their concatenation separated by⋆.
The function int :{0, 1}∗→ Z≥0 maps x∈{ 0, 1}∗ in the canonical manner
to the non-negative integer with binary representationx. The function bin :
Z≥0→{ 0, 1}∗ maps any non-zero integer to its binary representation with no
leading 0-characters, and bin(0) = 0.
2 Trapdoor veriﬁable delay functions
Let ∆ : Z>0→ R>0 be a function of the (implicit) security parameterk. This
∆ is meant to represent a time duration, and what is precisely meant bytime is
explained in Section 3 (essentially, it measures an amount of sequential work).
A party, Alice, has a public keypk and a secret keysk. Letx be a piece of data.
Alice, thanks to her secret keysk, is able to quickly evaluate a functiontrapdoorsk
onx. On the other hand, other parties knowing onlypk can computeevalpk(x) in
time∆, but not faster (and important parallel computing power does not give a
substantial advantage in going faster; remember that∆ measures the sequential
work), such that the resulting valueevalpk(x) is the same astrapdoorsk(x).
More formally, a trapdoor VDF consists of the following components (very
close to the classic VDF deﬁned in [4]):
5

keygen→ (pk, sk) isakeygenerationprocedure,whichoutputsAlice’spublickey
pk and secret keysk. As usual, the public key should be publicly available,
and the secret key is meant to be kept secret.
trapdoorsk(x,∆ )→ (y,π ) takes as input the datax∈X (for some input space
X),andusesthesecretkey sktoproducetheoutput y fromx,anda(possibly
empty) proofπ. The parameter∆ is the amount of sequential work required
to compute the same outputy without knowledge of the secret key.
evalpk(x,∆ )→ (y,π ) is a procedure to evaluate the function onx using only the
public key pk, for a targeted amount of sequential work∆. It produces the
output y from x, and a (possibly empty) proofπ. This procedure is meant
to be infeasible in time less than∆ (this will be expressed precisely in the
security requirements).
verifypk(x,y,π,∆ )→ true or false is a procedure to check ify is indeed the cor-
rect output forx, associated to the public keypk and the evaluation time∆,
possibly with the help of the proofπ.
Note that the security parameterk is implicitly an input to each of these
procedures. Given any key pair(pk, sk) generated by thekeygen procedure, the
functionality of the scheme is the following. Given any inputx and time param-
eter ∆, let (y,π )← evalpk(x,∆ ) and (y′,π′)← trapdoorsk(x,∆ ). Then,y = y′
and the proceduresverifypk(x,y,π,∆ ) and verifypk(x,y′,π′,∆ ) both output true.
We also require the protocol to besound, as in [4]. Intuitively, we want that
ify′ is not the correct output ofevalpk(x,∆ ) then verifypk(x,y′,∆ ) outputs false.
We however allow the holder of the trapdoor to generate misleading valuesy′.
Deﬁnition 1 (Soundness).A trapdoor VDF is sound if any polynomially
bounded algorithm solves the followingsoundness-breaking game with negligible
probability (ink): given as input the public keypk, output a messagex, a value
y′ and a proofπ′ such thaty′⁄= evalpk(x,∆ ), and verifypk(x,y′,π′,∆ ) = true.
The second security property is that the correct output cannot be produced
in time less than∆ without knowledge of the secret keysk. This is formalised in
thenextsectionviathe ∆-evaluation racegame.AtrapdoorVDFis ∆-sequential
if any polynomially bounded adversary wins the∆-evaluation race game with
negligible probability.
3 Wall-clock time and computational assumptions
Primitives such as veriﬁable delay functions or time-lock puzzles wish to deal
withthedelicatenotionofreal-worldtime.Thissectiondiscusseshowtoformally
handle this concept, and how it translates in practice.
3.1 Theoretical model
A precise notion of wall-clock time is diﬃcult to capture formally. However, we
can get a ﬁrst approximation by choosing a model of computation, and deﬁning
6

time as an amount of sequential work in this model. A model of computation is
a set of allowable operations, together with their respective costs. For instance,
working with circuits with gates∨,∧ and¬ which each have cost1, the notion of
time complexity of a circuitC can be captured by its depthd(C), i.e., the length
of the longest path inC. The time-complexity of a boolean functionf is then
the minimal depth of a circuit implementingf, but this does not reﬂect the time
it might take to actually computef in the real world where one is not bound
to using circuits. A random access machine might perform better, or maybe a
quantum circuit.
A good model of computation for analysing the actual time it takes to solve
a problem should contain all the operations that one could use in practice (in
particular the adversary). From now on, we suppose the adversary works in a
model of computation M. We do not deﬁne exactlyM, but only assume that
it allows all operations a potential adversary could perform, and that it comes
with a cost functionc and a time-cost functiont. For any algorithmA and input
x, the costC(A,x ) measures the overall cost of computingA(x) (i.e., the sum of
the costs of all the elementary operations that are executed), while the time-cost
T (A,x ) abstracts the notion of time it takes to runA(x) in the model M. For
the model of circuits, one could deﬁne the cost as the size of the circuit and the
time-cost as its depth. For concreteness, one can think of the modelM as the
model of parallel random-access machines.
All forthcoming security claims are (implicitly) made with respect to the
model M. The time-lock assumption of Rivest, Shamir and Wagner [18] can be
expressed as Assumption 1 below.
Deﬁnition 2 ((δ,t )-time-lock game).Letk∈ Z>0 be a diﬃculty parameter,
andA be an algorithm playing the game. The parametert is a positive integer,
and δ : Z>0→ R>0 is a function. The(δ,t )-time-lock gamegoes as follows:
1. An RSA modulusN is generated at random by an RSA key-generation pro-
cedure, for the security parameterk;
2. A(N ) outputs an algorithmB;
3. An elementg∈ Z/NZ is generated uniformly at random;
4. B(g) outputs h∈ Z/NZ.
Then,A wins the game ifh =g2t
mod N and T (B,g )<tδ (k).
Assumption 1 (Time-lock assumption)There is a cost functionδ : Z>0→
R>0 such that the following two statements hold:
1. There is an algorithmS such that for any modulusN generated by an RSA
key-generation procedure with security parameterk, and any elementg ∈
Z/NZ, the output ofS(N,g ) is the square ofg, andT (S, (N,g ))<δ (k);
2. For anyt∈ Z>0, no algorithmA of polynomial cost2 wins the(δ,t )-time-lock
game with non-negligible probability (with respect to the diﬃculty parame-
ter k).
2 i.e., C(A,g ) = O(f (len(g))) for a polynomialf, with len(g) the binary length ofg.
7

The functionδ encodes the time-cost of computing a single modular squaring,
and Assumption 1 expresses that without knowledge of the factorisation ofN,
there is no faster way to compute g2t
mod N than performing t sequential
squarings.
With this formalism, we can ﬁnally express the security notion of a trapdoor
VDF.
Deﬁnition 3 (∆-evaluation race game).LetA be a party playing the game.
The parameter∆ : Z>0→ R>0 is a function of the (implicit) security parameter
k. The∆-evaluation race gamegoes as follows:
1. The random procedurekeygen is run and it outputs a public keypk;
2. A(pk) outputs an algorithmB;
3. Some data x∈ Xis generated according to some random distribution of
min-entropy at leastk;
4. BO(x) outputs a valuey, whereO is an oracle that outputs the evaluation
trapdoorsk(x′,∆ ) on any inputx′⁄=x.
Then,A wins the game ifT (B,x )<∆ and evalpk(x,∆ ) outputs y.
Deﬁnition 4 (∆-sequential). A trapdoor VDF is∆-sequential if any polyno-
mially bounded player (with respect to the implicit security parameter) wins the
above∆-evaluation race game with negligible probability.
Observe that it is useless to allowA to adaptively ask for oracle evalua-
tions of the VDF during the execution ofA(pk): for any datax′, the procedure
evalpk(x′,∆ ) produces the same output astrapdoorsk(x′,∆ ), so any such request
can be computed by the adversary in timeO(∆).
Remark 1. Suppose that the input x is hashed as H(x) (by a secure crypto-
graphic hash function) before being evaluated (as is the case in the construction
we present in the next section), i.e.
trapdoorsk(x,∆ ) = tsk(H(x),∆ ),
for some proceduret, and similarly foreval and verify. Then, it becomes unnec-
essary to give toB access to the oracleO. We give a proof in Appendix A when
H is modeled as a random oracle.
Remark 2. At the third step of the game, the bound on the min-entropy is ﬁxed
to k. The exact value of this bound is arbitrary, but forbidding low entropy is
important: ifx has a good chance of falling in a small subset ofX, the adversary
can simply precompute the VDF for all the elements of this subset.
3.2 Timing assumptions in the real world
Given an algorithm, or even an implementation of this algorithm, its actual run-
ning time will depend on the hardware on which it is run. If the algorithm is
8

executed independently on several single-core general purpose CPUs, the vari-
ations in running time between them will be reasonably small as overclocking
records on clock-speeds barely achieve 9GHz (cf. [10]), only a small factor higher
than a common personal computer. Assuming the computation is not parallelis-
able, using multiple CPUs would not allow to go faster. However, specialized
hardware could be built to perform a certain computation much more eﬃciently
than on any general purpose hardware.
For these reasons, the theoretical model developed in Section 3.1 has a lim-
ited accuracy. To resolve this issue, and evaluate precisely the security of a
timing assumption like Assumption 1, one must estimate the speed at which
the current state of technology allows to perform a certain task, given a possi-
bly astronomical budget. To this end, the Ethereum Foundation and Protocol
Labs [13] are currently investigating extremely fast hardware implementations
of RSA multiplication, and hope to construct a piece of hardware close enough
to today’s technological limits, with the goal of using the present construction
in their future platforms. Similarly, the Chia Network has opened a competition
in the near future for very fast multiplication in the class group of a quadratic
imaginary ﬁeld.
4 Construction of the veriﬁable delay function
Let x∈ A∗ be the input at which the VDF is to be evaluated. Alice’s secret
key sk is the order of a ﬁnite groupG, and her public key is a description of
G allowing to compute the group multiplication eﬃciently. We also assume that
any elementg of G can eﬃciently be represented in a canonical way as binary
strings bin(g). Also part of Alice’s public key is a hash functionHG : A∗→G.
Example 1 (RSA setup).A natural choice of setup is the following: the groupG
is (Z/NZ)× where N =pq for a pair of distinct prime numbersp and q, where
the secret key is(p− 1)(q− 1) and the public key isN, and the hash function
HG(x) = int(H(“residue”||x)) mod N (where H is a secure cryptographic
hash function). For a technical reason explained later in Remark 4, we actually
need to work in(Z/NZ)×/{±1}, and we call this theRSA setup.
Example 2 (Class group setup).For a public setup where we do not want the
private key to be known by anyone, one could chooseG to be the class group
of an imaginary quadratic ﬁeld. The construction is simple. Choose a random,
negative, square-free integer d, of large absolute value, and such thatd≡ 1
mod 4. Then, letG = Cl(d) be the class group of the imaginary quadratic ﬁeld
Q(
√
d). Just as we wish, there is no known algorithm to eﬃciently compute the
order of this group. The multiplication can be performed eﬃciently, and each
class can be represented canonically by its reduced ideal. Note that the even
part of|Cl(d)| can be computed if the factorisation ofd is known. Therefore one
should choosed to be a negative prime, which ensures that|Cl(d)| is odd. See [8]
for a review of the arithmetic in class groups of imaginary quadratic orders, and
a discussion on the choice of cryptographic parameters.
9

Consider a targeted evaluation time given by∆ = tδ for a timing parame-
tert, whereδ is the time-cost (i.e., the amount of sequential work) of computing
a single squaring in the groupG (as done in Assumption 1 for the RSA setup).
To evaluate the VDF on inputx, ﬁrst letg =HG(x). The basic idea (which
ﬁnds its origins in [18]) is that for anyt∈ Z>0, Alice can eﬃciently compute
g2t
with two exponentiations, by ﬁrst computinge = 2t mod|G|, followed by
ge. The running time is logarithmic int. Any other party who does not know
|G| can also computeg2t
by performingt sequential squarings, with a running
time tδ. Therefore anyone can computey = g2t
but only Alice can do it fast,
and any other party has to spend a time linear int. However, verifying that
the published valuey is indeedg2t
is long: there is no shortcut to the obvious
strategy consisting in recomputingg2t
and checking if it matches. To solve this
issue, we propose the following public-coin succinct argument, for proving that
y = g2t
. The input of the interaction is(G,g,y,t ). Let Primes(2k) denote the
set containing the22k ﬁrst prime numbers.
1. The veriﬁer samples a prime𝓁 uniformly at random fromPrimes(2k).
2. The prover computesπ =g⌊2t/𝓁⌋ and sends it to the veriﬁer.
3. The veriﬁer computesr = 2t mod 𝓁, (the least positive residue of2t modulo
𝓁), and accepts ifg,y,π ∈G and π𝓁gr =y.
Now, it might not be clear how Alice or a third party should computeπ =
g⌊2t/𝓁⌋. For Alice, it is simple: she can computer = 2t mod 𝓁. Then we have
⌊2t/𝓁⌋ = (2t−r)/𝓁, and since she knows the order of the group, she can compute
q = (2 t−r)/𝓁 mod|G| and π = gq. We explain in Section 4.1 how anyone
else can compute π without knowing|G|, with a total of O(t/ log(t)) group
multiplications.
This protocol is made non-interactive using the Fiat-Shamir transformation,
by letting 𝓁 = Hprime(bin(g)|||bin(y)), where Hprime is a hash function which
sends any string s to an element of Primes(2k). We assume in the security
analysis below that this function is a uniformly distributed random oracle. The
procedures trapdoor, verify and eval are fully described in Algorithms 1, 2 and 3
respectively.
Remark 3. Instead of hashing the inputx into the groupG as g =HG(x), one
could simply consider x∈ G. However, the functionx↦→ x2t
being a group
homomorphism, bypassing the hashing step has undesirable consequences. For
instance, givenx2t
, one can compute(xα)2t
for any integerα at the cost of only
an exponentiation byα.
Veriﬁcation.It is straightforward to check that the veriﬁcation conditionπ𝓁gr =
y holds if the evaluator is honest. Now, what can a dishonest evaluator do? That
question is answered formally in Section 6, but the intuitive idea is easy to
understand. We will show that givenx, ﬁnding a pair(y,π ) diﬀerent from the
honest one amounts to solve a root-ﬁnding problem in the underlying groupG
10

Data: a public keypk = (G,HG) and a secret keysk =|G|, some input
x∈A∗, a targeted evaluation time∆ =tδ.
Result: the outputy, and the proofπ.
g←HG(x)∈G;
e← 2t mod|G|;
y←ge;
𝓁←Hprime(bin(g)|||bin(y));
r← least residue of2t modulo 𝓁;
q← (2t−r)𝓁−1 mod|G|;
π←gq;
return (y,π );
Algorithm 1: trapdoorsk(x,t )→ (y,π )
(supposedly hard for anyone who does not know the secret order of the group).
As a result, only Alice can produce misleading proofs.
Consider the above interactive succinct argument, and suppose that the ver-
iﬁer accepts, i.e.,π𝓁gr = y, wherer is the least residue of2t modulo 𝓁. Since
r = 2t−𝓁⌊2t/𝓁⌋, the veriﬁcation condition is equivalent to
yg−2t
=
(
πg−⌊2t/𝓁⌋
)𝓁
.
Before the generation of𝓁, the left-hand sideα =yg−2t
is already determined.
Once 𝓁 is revealed, the evaluator is able to computeβ =πg−⌊2t/𝓁⌋, which is an
𝓁-th root ofα. For a prover to succeed with good probability, he must be able
to extract𝓁-th roots ofα for arbitrary values of𝓁. This is hard in our groups of
interest, unlessα =β = 1G, in which case(y,π ) is the honest output.
Remark 4. Observe that in the RSA setup, this task is easy ifα = ±1, i.e.
y =±g2t
. It is however a diﬃcult problem, given an RSA modulusN, to ﬁnd an
elementα mod N other than±1 from which𝓁-th roots can be extracted for any
𝓁. This explains why we need to work in the groupG = (Z/NZ)×/{±1} instead
of (Z/NZ)× in the RSA setup. This problem is formalized (and generalised to
other groups) in Deﬁnition 6.
4.1 Computing the proof π in O(t/ log(t)) group operations
In this section, we describe how to compute the proofπ = g⌊2t/𝓁⌋ with a total
ofO(t/ log(t)) group multiplications. First, we mention a very simple algorithm
to compute π, which simply computes the long division⌊2t/𝓁⌋ on the ﬂy, as
pointed out by Boneh, Bünz and Fisch [5], but requires betweent and 2t group
operations. It is given in Algorithm 4.
Wenowdescribehowtoperformthesamecomputationwithonly O(t/ log(t))
group operations. Fix a parameterκ. The idea is to express⌊2t/𝓁⌋ in base 2κ as
⌊2t/𝓁⌋ =
∑
i
bi2κi =
2κ−1∑
b=0
b
( ∑
i such that bi=b
2κi
)
.
11

Data: a public keypk = (G,HG), some inputx∈A∗, a targeted evaluation
time ∆ =tδ, a VDF outputy and a proofπ.
Result: true if y is the correct evaluation of the VDF atx, false otherwise.
g←HG(x);
𝓁←Hprime(bin(g)|||bin(y));
r← least residue of2t modulo 𝓁;
if π𝓁gr =y then
return true;
else
return false;
end
Algorithm 2: verifypk(x,y,π,t )→ true or false
Data: a public keypk = (G,HG), some inputx∈A∗, a targeted evaluation
time ∆ =tδ.
Result: the output valuey and a proofπ.
g←HG(x)∈G;
y←g2t
; // via t sequential squarings
𝓁←Hprime(bin(g)|||bin(y));
π←g⌊2t/𝓁⌋ ; // following the simple Algorithm 4, or the faster
Algorithm 5
return (y,π );
Algorithm 3: evalpk(x,t )→ (y,π )
Similarly to Algorithm 4, each coeﬃcientbi can be computed as
bi =
⌊ 2κ(2t−κ(i+1) mod 𝓁)
𝓁
⌋
,
where 2t−κ(i+1) mod 𝓁 denotes the least residue of2t−κ(i+1) modulo𝓁. For each
κ-bits integerb∈{ 0,..., 2κ− 1}, letIb ={i|bi =b}. We get
g⌊2t/𝓁⌋ =
2κ−1∏
b=0
(∏
i∈Ib
g2κi
)b
. (1)
Suppose ﬁrst that all the valuesg2κi
have been memorised (from the sequen-
tial computation of the valuey = g2t
). Then, each product∏
i∈Ib
g2κi
can be
computed in|Ib| group multiplications (for a total of∑
b|Ib| = t/κ multiplica-
tions), and the full product (1) can be deduced with aboutκ2κ additional group
operations. In total, this strategy requires aboutt/κ +κ2κ group operations.
Choosing, for instance,κ = log(t)/2, we get aboutt· 2/ log(t) group operations.
Of course, this would require the storage oft/κ group elements.
We now show that the memory requirement can easily be reduced to, for
instance, O(
√
t) group elements, for essentially the same speedup. Instead of
memorising eachκ element of the sequenceg2i
, only memorise everyκγ element
12

Data: an elementg in a groupG (with identity 1G), a prime number𝓁 and a
positive integert.
Result: g⌊2t/𝓁⌋.
x← 1G∈G;
r← 1∈ Z;
for i← 0 to T− 1 do
b←⌊ 2r/𝓁⌋∈{ 0, 1}∈ Z;
r← least residue of2r modulo 𝓁;
x←x2gb;
end
return x;
Algorithm 4:Simple algorithm to computeg⌊2t/𝓁⌋, with an on-the-ﬂy long
division [5].
(i.e., the elementsg20
,g 2κγ
,g 22κγ
,... ), for some parameterγ (we will show that
γ = O(
√
t) is suﬃcient). For each integerj, letIb,j ={i∈ Ib| i≡ j mod γ}.
Now,
g⌊2t/𝓁⌋ =
2κ−1∏
b=0


γ−1∏
j=0
∏
i∈Ib,j
g2κi


b
=
γ−1∏
j=0


2κ−1∏
b=0

 ∏
i∈Ib,j
g2κ(i−j)


b

2κj
.
In each factor of the ﬁnal product,i−j is divisible byγ, sog2κ(i−j)
is one
of the memorised values. A straightforward approach allows to compute this
product with a total amount of group operations aboutt/κ +γκ2κ, yet one
can still do better. Writeyb,j =∏
i∈Ib,j
g2κ(i−j)
, and splitκ into two halves, as
κ1 =⌊κ/2⌋ and κ0 =κ−κ1. Now, observe that for each indexj,
2κ−1∏
b=0
yb
b,j =
2κ1−1∏
b1=0
(2κ0−1∏
b0=0
yb12κ0 +b0,j
)b12κ0
·
2κ0−1∏
b0=0
(2κ1−1∏
b1=0
yb12κ0 +b0,j
)b0
The right-hand side provides a way to compute the product with a total of about
2(2κ +κ2κ/2) (instead ofκ2κ as in the more obvious strategy). The full method is
summarised in Algorithm 5 (on page 29), and requires aboutt/κ +γ2κ+1 group
multiplications.
The algorithm requires the storage of about t/(κγ) + 2κ group elements.
Choosing, for instance,κ = log(t)/3 andγ =
√
t, we get aboutt· 3/ log(t) group
operations, with the storage of about
√
t group elements. This algorithm can
also be parallelised.
4.2 A practical bandwidth and storage improvement
Typically, anevaluator would compute the outputy and the proofπ, and send
the pair (y,π ) to the veriﬁers. Each veriﬁer would compute the Fiat-Shamir
13

challenge
𝓁←Hprime(bin(g)|||bin(y)),
then checky =π𝓁g2t mod 𝓁. Instead, it is possible for the evaluator to transmit
(𝓁,π ), which has almost half the size (typically,𝓁 is in the order of hundreds of
bits while group elements are in the order of thousands of bits). The veriﬁers
would recover
y←π𝓁g2t mod 𝓁,
and then verify that𝓁 =Hprime(bin(g)|||bin(y)). The two strategies are equiva-
lent, but the second divides almost by 2 the bandwidth and storage footprint.
4.3 A trade-oﬀ between proof shortness and prover eﬃciency
The evaluation of the VDF, i.e., the computation ofy =g2t
, takes timeT =δt,
where δ is the time of one squaring in the underlying group. As demonstrated
in Section 4.1, the proofπ can be computed inO(t/ log(t)) group operations.
Say that the total time of computing the proof is a fractionT/ω; considering
Algorithm5,onecanthinkof ω = 20,areasonablevalueforpracticalparameters.
One potential issue with the proposed VDF is that the computation ofπ can
only start after the evaluation of the VDF outputg2t
is completed. So after the
completion of the VDF evaluation, there still remains a total amountT/ω of
work to compute the proof. We calloverhead these computations that must be
done after the evaluation ofy =g2t
. Even though this part of the computation
can be parallelised, it might be advantageous for some applications to reduce
the overhead to a negligible amount of work.
We show in the following that using only two parallel threads, the overhead
can be reduces to a total cost of aboutT/ωn, at the cost of lengthening the proofs
to n group elements (instead of a single one), andn− 1 small prime numbers.
Note that the value of ω varies with T, yet for simplicity of exposition, we
assume that it is constant in the following analysis (a reasonable approximation
for practical purposes).
The idea is to start proving some intermediate results before the full evalua-
tion is over. For instance, considert1 =t ω
ω+1. Run the evaluator, and when the
intermediate valueg1 =g2t1
is reached, store it (but keep the evaluator running
in parallel), and compute the proofπ1 for the statementg1 =g2t1
. The computa-
tion of this proof takes time aboutδt1/ω =T/ (ω + 1), which is the time it takes
to ﬁnish the full evaluation (i.e., going fromg1 toy =g2t
=g2t/(ω+1)
1 ). Therefore,
the evaluation ofy and the ﬁrst proofπ1 ﬁnish at the same time. It only remains
to produce a proofπ2 for the statementy =g2t/(ω+1)
1 , which can be done in total
time δt
ω(ω+1)≤T/ω 2. Therefore the overhead is at mostT/ω 2. At ﬁrst glance, it
seems the veriﬁcation requires the triple(g1,π 1,π 2), but in fact, the valueg1 can
be recovered fromπ1 and the prime number𝓁1 = Hprime(bin(g)|||bin(g1)) via
g1 =π𝓁
1gt1 mod 𝓁, as done is Section 4.2. Therefore, the proof can be compressed
to (𝓁1,π 1,π 2).
14

More generally, one could split the computation inton segments of length
ti =tωn−i ω−1
ωn−1, fori = 1,...,n . We have thatt =∑n
i=1ti, andti =ti−1/ω, so
during the evaluation of each segment (apart from the ﬁrst), one can compute
the proof corresponding to the previous segment. The overhead is only the proof
of the last segment, which takes timeT ω−1
ω(ωn−1)≤ T/ωn. The proof consists of
the n intermediate proofs and then− 1 intermediate prime challenges.
5 Analysis of the sequentiality
In this section, the proposed construction is proven to be(tδ)-sequential, mean-
ing that no polynomially bounded player can win the associated(tδ)-evaluation
race game with non-negligible probability (in other words, the VDF cannot be
evaluated in time less thantδ). For the RSA setup, it is proved under the classic
time-lock assumption of Rivest, Shamir and Wagner [18] (formalised in Assump-
tion 1), and more generally, it is secure for groups where a generalisation of this
assumption holds (Assumption 2).
5.1 Generalised time-lock assumptions
The following game generalises the classic time-lock assumption to arbitrary
families of groups of unknown orders.
Deﬁnition 5 (Generalised(δ,t )-time-lockgame). Consider a sequence(Gk)k∈Z>0,
where each Gk is a set of ﬁnite groups (supposedly of unknown orders), associ-
ated to a “diﬃculty parameter”k. Letkeygen be a procedure to generate a random
group from Gk, according to the diﬃcultyk.
Fix the diﬃculty parameterk∈ Z>0, and letA be an algorithm playing the
game. The parametert is a positive integer, andδ : Z>0→ R>0 is a function.
The (δ,t )-time-lock gamegoes as follows:
1. A groupG is generated bykeygen;
2. A(G) outputs an algorithmB;
3. An elementg∈G is generated uniformly at random;
4. B(g) outputs h∈G.
Then,A wins the game ifh =g2t
and T (B,g )<tδ (k).
Assumption 2 (Generalised time-lock assumption)The generalised time-
lock assumption for a given family of groups(Gk)k∈Z>0 is the following. There
is a cost functionδ : Z>0→ R>0 such that the following two statements hold:
1. There is an algorithmS such that for any groupG∈ Gk (for the diﬃculty
parameterk), and any elementg∈G, the output ofS(G,g ) is the square of
g, andT (S, (G,g ))<δ (k);
2. For anyt∈ Z>0, no algorithmA of polynomial cost wins the(δ,t )-time-lock
game with non-negligible probability (with respect to the diﬃculty parame-
ter k).
15

The functionδ encodes the time-cost of computing a single squaring in a group
of Gk, and Assumption 2 expresses that without more speciﬁc knowledge about
these groups (such as their orders), there is no faster way to computeg2t
than
performing t sequential squarings.
5.2 Sequentiality in the random oracle model
Proposition 1 (tδ-sequentialityofthetrapdoorVDFintherandomor-
acle model).LetA be a player winning with probabilitypwin the (tδ)-evaluation
race game associated to the proposed construction, assumingHG and Hprime
are random oracles andA is limited to q oracle queries3. Then, there is a
player C for the (generalised) (δ,t )-time-lock game, with winning probability
p≥ (1−q/2k)pwin, and with same running time asA (up to a constant fac-
tor4).
Proof. BuildC as follows. Upon receiving the groupG,C starts runningA on
input G. The random oraclesHG andHprime are simulated in a straightforward
manner, maintaining a table of values, and generating a random outcome for any
new request (with distribution uniform inG and in Primes(2k) respectively).
WhenA(G) outputs an algorithmB,C generates a randomx∈X (according to
the same distribution as the(tδ)-evaluation race game). Ifx has been queried by
the oracle already,C aborts; this happens with probability at mostq/2k, since
the min-entropy of the distribution of messages in the(tδ)-evaluation race game
is at leastk. Otherwise,C outputs the following algorithmB′. When receiving
as input the challengeg,B′ adds g to the table of oracleHG, for the inputx
(i.e., HG(x) = g). As discussed in Remark 1, we can assume that the algorithm
B does not call the oracletrapdoorsk(−,y,∆ ). ThenB′ can invokeB on inputx
while simulating the oraclesHG andHprime. WheneverB outputsy,B′ outputsy,
whichequals g2t
whenevery isthecorrectevaluationoftheVDFat x.Weassume
that simulating the oracle has a negligible cost, soB′(g) has essentially the
same time-cost asB(x). Then,C wins the (δ,t )-time-lock game with probability
p≥pwin(1−q/2k). ⊓ ⊔
6 Analysis of the soundness
In this section, the proposed construction is proven to be sound, meaning that
no polynomially bounded player can produce a misleading proof for an invalid
outputoftheVDF.FortheRSAsetup,itisprovedunderanewnumbertheoretic
assumption expressing that it is hard to ﬁnd an integeru⁄= 0,±1 for which𝓁-th
3 In this game, the output ofA is another algorithmB. When we say thatA is limited
to q queries, we limit the total number of queries byA andB combined. In other
words, ifA did x≤q queries, then its outputB is limited toq−x queries.
4 Note that this constant factor does not aﬀect the chances ofC to win the (δ,t )-
time-lock game, since it concerns only the running time ofC itself and not of the
algorithm output byC(G)
16

roots modulo an RSA modulusN can be extracted for arbitrary𝓁-values sampled
uniformly at random fromPrimes(2k), when the factorisation ofN is unknown.
More generally, the construction is sound if a generalisation of this assumptions
holds in the group of interest.
6.1 The root ﬁnding problem
The following game formalises the root ﬁnding problem.
Deﬁnition 6 (The root ﬁnding gameGroot). LetA be a party playing the
game. Theroot ﬁnding gameGroot(A) goes as follows: ﬁrst, thekeygen procedure
is run, resulting in a groupG which is given toA (G is supposedly of unknown
order). The playerA then outputs an elementu of G. An integer𝓁 is sampled
uniformly from Primes(2k) and given toA. The playerA outputs an integerv
and wins the game ifv𝓁 =u⁄= 1G.
In the RSA setup, the groupG is the quotient(Z/NZ)×/{±1}, whereN is a
product of two random large prime numbers. It is not known if this problem can
easily be reduced to a standard assumption such as the diﬃculty of factoring
N or the RSA problem, for which the best known algorithms have complexity
LN (1/3).
Similarly, in the class group setting, this problem is not known to reduce to a
standard assumption, but it is closely related to the order problem and the root
problem (which are tightly related to each other, see [3, Theorem 3]), for which
thebestknownalgorithmshavecomplexity L|d|(1/2)wheredisthediscriminant.
We now prove that to win this gameGroot, it is suﬃcient to win the following
gameGroot
X , which is more convenient for our analysis.
Deﬁnition 7 (The oracle root ﬁnding gameGroot
X ). LetA be a party playing
the game. LetX be a function that takes as input a groupG and a string s
in A∗, and outputs an element X(G,s ) ∈ G. LetO : A∗ → Primes(2k) be
a random oracle with the uniform distribution. The player has access to the
random oracleO. The oracle root ﬁnding gameGroot
X (A,O) goes as follows:
ﬁrst, thekeygen procedure is run and the resulting groupG is given toA. The
playerA then outputs a strings∈ A∗, and an elementv ofG. The game is won
if vO(s) =X(G,s )⁄= 1G.
Lemma 1. If there is a functionX and an algorithmA limited to q queries
to the oracleO winning the gameGroot
X (A,O) with probabilitypwin, there is an
algorithmB winning the gameGroot(B) with probability at leastpwin/(q + 1), and
same running time, up to a small constant factor.
Proof. LetA be an algorithm limited toq oracle queries, and winning the game
with probabilitypwin. Build an algorithmA′ which does exactly the same thing
asA, but with possibly additional oracle queries at the end to make sure the
output strings′ is always queried to the oracle, and the algorithm always does
exactly q + 1 (distinct) oracle queries.
17

Build an algorithmB playing the gameGroot, usingA′ as follows. Upon
receiving pk = G,B starts runningA′ on input pk. The oracleO is simulated
as follows. First, an integeri∈{ 1, 2,...,q + 1} is chosen uniformly at random.
For the ﬁrsti− 1 (distinct) queries fromA′ toO, the oracle value is chosen
uniformly at random fromPrimes(2k). When theith strings∈ A∗ is queried
to the oracle, the algorithmB outputs u =X(G,s ), concluding the ﬁrst round
of the gameGroot. The game continues as the integer𝓁 is received (uniform in
Primes(2k)). This 𝓁 is then used as the value for theith oracle queryO(s),
and the algorithmA′ can continue running. The subsequent oracle queries are
handled like the ﬁrsti− 1 queries, by picking random primes inPrimes(2k).
Finally,A′ outputs a strings′∈ A∗ and an elementv of G. To conclude the
gameGroot(B),B returns v.
SinceO simulates a random oracle with uniform outputs inPrimes(2k),A′
outputs with probabilitypwin a pair (s′,v ) such thatvO(s′) = X(G,s′)⁄= 1G;
denote this eventwinA′. Ifs =s′, this condition is exactlyv𝓁 =u⁄= 1G, where
u =X(G,s ) is the output for the ﬁrst round ofGroot, andO(s) = 𝓁 is the input
for the second round. If these conditions are met, the gameGroot(B) is won.
Therefore
Pr[B winsGroot]≥pwin· Pr [s =s′|winA′].
LetQ ={s1,s 2,...,s q+1} be the q + 1 (distinct) strings queried toO byA′,
indexed in chronological order. By construction, we haves = si. Letj be such
that s′ =sj (recall thatA′ makes sure thats′∈Q ). Then,
Pr [s =s′|winA′] = Pr [i =j|winA′]
The integeri is chosen uniformly at random in{1, 2,...,q + 1}, and the values
given toA′ are independent fromi (the oracle values are all independent random
variables). SoPr [i =j|winA′] = 1/(q+1). ThereforePr[B winsGroot]≥pwin/(q+
1). SinceB mostly consists in runningA and simulating the random oracle, it is
clear than both have the same running time, up to a small constant factor.⊓ ⊔
6.2 Soundness in the random oracle model
Proposition 2 (Soundness of the trapdoor VDF in the random oracle
model). LetA be a player winning with probabilitypwin the soundness-breaking
game associated to the proposed scheme, assumingHG and Hprime are random
oracles andA is limited toq oracle queries5. Then, there is a playerD for the
root ﬁnding gameGroot with winning probabilityp≥pwin/(q + 1), and with same
running time asA (up to a constant factor).
Proof. Instead of directly buildingD, we build an algorithmD′ playing the game
Groot
X (D′,O), and invoke Lemma 1. Deﬁne the functionX as follows. Recall that
5 In this game, the output ofA is another algorithmB. When we say thatA is limited
to q queries, we limit the total number of queries byA andB combined. In other
words, ifA did x≤q queries, then its outputB is limited toq−x queries.
18

for any groupG that we consider in the construction, each elementg∈G admits
a canonical binary representationbin(g). For any such groupG, any elements
g,h∈G, let
X(G, bin(g)|||bin(h)) = h/g2t
,
and letX(G,s ) = 1G for any other strings. When receivingpk,D′ starts run-
ningA with input pk. The oracleHG is simulated by generating random values
in the straightforward way, andHprime is set to be exactly the oracleO. The
algorithmA outputs a messagex, and pair (y,π )∈G×G (if it is not of this
form, abort). Outputs = bin(HG(x))|||bin(y) and v =π/HG(x)⌊2t/O(s)⌋. IfA
won the simulated soundness-breaking game, the procedure did not abort, and
vO(s) = X(G,s )⁄= 1G, soD′ wins the game. HenceD′ has winning probabil-
itypwin. SinceA was limited toq oracle queries,D′ also does not do more thanq
queries. Applying Lemma 1, there is an algorithmD winning the gameGroot(B)
with probabilityp≥pwin(1−ε)/(q + 1). ⊓ ⊔
Remark 5. Theconstructionremainssoundifinsteadofconsideringtheoutput y
andtheproof π,weconsidertheoutputtobethepair (y,π ),withanemptyproof.
The winning probability ofD in Proposition 2 becomesp≥pwin(1−ε)/(q + 1),
where ε = negl
(
k
log log(|G|) log(q)
)
, by accounting for the unlikely event that the
large random primeO(s) is a divisor of|G|.
7 Aggregating and watermarking proofs
In this section, we present two useful properties of the VDF: the proofs can be ag-
gregated, and watermarked. The methods of this section follow from discussions
at the August 2018 workshop at Stanford hosted by the Ethereum Foundation
and the Stanford Center for Blockchain Research. The author wishes to thank
the participants for their contribution.
7.1 Aggregation
If the VDF is evaluated at multiple inputs, it is possible to produce a single proof
~π∈ G that simultaneously proves the validity of all the outputs. Suppose that
n inputs are given,x1,...,x n. For each indexi, letgi =HG(xi). The following
public-coin interactive succinct argument allows to prove that a given list(yi)n
i=1
satisﬁesyi =g2t
i :
1. The veriﬁer samples a prime𝓁 uniformly at random fromPrimes(2k), andn
uniformly random integers(αi)n
i=1 of k bits.
2. The prover computes
~π =
( n∏
i=1
gαi
i
)⌊2t/𝓁⌋
and sends it to the veriﬁer.
19

3. The veriﬁer computesr = 2t mod 𝓁, (the least positive residue of2t modulo
𝓁), and accepts if
~π𝓁
( n∏
i=1
gαi
i
)r
=
n∏
i=1
yαi
i .
The single group element~π serves as proof for the whole list ofn statements
yi =g2t
i : it is an aggregated proof. The protocol can be made non-interactive by
a Fiat-Shamir transformation: let
s = bin(g1)|||bin(g2)|||... |||bin(gn)|||bin(y1)|||bin(y2)|||... |||bin(yn),
and let𝓁 =Hprime(s), and for each indexi, letαi = int(H(bin(i)|||s)) (whereH
is a secure cryptographic hash function). For simplicity, we prove the soundness
in the interactive setup (the non-interactive soundness then follows from the
Fiat-Shamir heuristic).
Remark 6. One could harmlessly ﬁxα1 = 1 , leaving onlyαi to be chosen at
random for i > 1. We present the protocol as above for simplicity, to avoid
dealing withi = 1 as a special case in the proof below.
Theorem 1. If there is a malicious proverP breaking the soundness of the
above interactive succinct argument with probabilityp, then there is a playerB
winning the root ﬁnding gameGroot with probability at least(p2− 2−k)/3, with
essentially the same running time asP.
Proof. LetI ={0, 1,..., 2k− 1}, and letZ =In−1× Primes(2k). Let Z =
(α2,...,α n,𝓁 ) be a uniformly distributed random variable inZ, and letα1 and
α′
1 be two independent, uniformly distributed random variables inI. Let win
and win′ be the events thatP breaks soundness when given(α1,α 2,...,α n,𝓁 )
and (α′
1,α 2,...,α n,𝓁 ) respectively. We wish to estimate the probability of the
event double_win = win∧win′∧(α1⁄=α′
1). Observe that conditioning overZ =z
for an arbitrary, ﬁxedz∈Z , the eventswin and win′ are independent and have
same probability, so
Pr[win∧ win′] = 1
|Z|
∑
z∈Z
Pr[win∧ win′|Z =z] = 1
|Z|
∑
z∈Z
Pr[win|Z =z]2.
From the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality, we get
1
|Z|
∑
z∈Z
Pr[win|Z =z]2≥
(
1
|Z|
∑
z∈Z
Pr[win|Z =z]
)2
= Pr[win]2 =p2.
We conclude thatPr[win∧ win′]≥p2, and therefore,Pr[double_win]≥p2− 2−k.
With these probabilities at hand, we can now construct the playerB for the
root ﬁnding gameGroot. RunP, which outputs valuesgi and yi. If yi = g2t
i
20

for all i, abort. Up to some reindexing, we can now assumey1 ⁄= g2t
1 . Draw
α1,α′
1,α 2,...,α n uniformly at random fromI. Deﬁne
x0 =y1/g2t
1 , x1 =
n∏
i=1
(yαi
i /g2t
i )αi, x2 = (y1/g2t
1 )α′
1
n∏
i=2
(yαi
i /g2t
i )αi.
Letbbeauniformlyrandomelementof {0, 1, 2}.Thealgorithm B outputsxb.We
get back a challenge𝓁. Run the proverP twice, independently, for the challenges
(α1,α 2,...,α n,𝓁 ) and (α′
1,α 2,...,α n,𝓁 ), and suppose that both responses break
soundness, and α1 ⁄= α′
1 (i.e., the event double_win occurs). If x1 ⁄= 1 G or
x2⁄= 1G, the winning responses fromP allow to extract an𝓁-th root of eitherx1
orx2 respectively. Otherwise, we havex1 =x2, which implies thatxα1−α′
1
0 = 1G,
sox0 is an element of order dividingα1−α′
1, and one can easily extract any𝓁-th
root ofx0. In conclusion, under the eventdouble_win, one can always extract
an𝓁-th root of eitherx0,x1 orx2, so the total winning probability of algorithm
B is at least(p2− 2−k)/3. ⊓ ⊔
7.2 Watermarking
When using a VDF to build a decentralised randomness beacon (e.g., as a back-
boneforanenergy-eﬃcientblockchaindesign),peoplewhospenttimeandenergy
evaluating the VDF should be rewarded for their eﬀort. Since the output of the
VDF is supposed to be unique, it is hard to reliably identify the person who
computed it. A naive attempt of the evaluator to sign the output would not
prevent theft: since the output is public, a dishonest party could as easily sign
it and claim it their own.
Let the evaluator’s identity be given as a stringid. One proposed method
(see [12]) essentially consists in computing the VDF twice: once on the actual
input, and once on a combination of the input with the evaluator’s identityid.
Implemented carefully, this method could allow to reliably reward the evaluators
for their work, but it also doubles the required eﬀort. In the following, we sketch
two cost-eﬀective solutions to this problem.
The ﬁrst cost-eﬀective approach consists in having the evaluator prove that
he knows some hard-to-recover intermediate value of the computation of the
VDF. Since the evaluation of our proposed construction requires computing in
sequence the elementsgi = g2i
for i = 1,...,t , and only the ﬁnal valuey = gt
of the sequence is supposed to be revealed, one can prove that they performed
the computation by proving that they knowgt−1 (it is a square root ofy, hence
the fastest way for someone else to recover it would be to recompute the full
sequence). A simple way to do so would be for the evaluator to reveal the value
cid = gpid
t−1 (a certiﬁcate), wherepid = Hprime(id). The validity of the certiﬁcate
can be checked via the equationypid = c2
id. The security claim is the following:
given the inputx, the outputy, the proofπ, and the certiﬁcatecid, the cost for
an adversary with identiﬁerid′ (distinct from id) to produce a valid certiﬁcate
21

cid′ is as large as actually recomputing the output of the VDF by themself.
The above method is cost-eﬀective as it does not require the evaluator to
perform much more work than evaluating the VDF. However, it makes the out-
put longer by adding an extra group element: the certiﬁcate. Another approach
consists in producing a single group element that plays simultaneously the role
of the proof and the certiﬁcate. This element is awatermarked proof, tied to
the evaluator’s identity. This can be done easily with our construction. In the
evaluation procedure (Algorithm 3), replace the deﬁnition of the prime𝓁 by
Hprime(id|||bin(g)|||bin(y)) (and the corresponding change must be made in the
veriﬁcation procedure). The resulting proofπid is now inextricably tied toid. In-
formally, the security claim is the following: given the inputx, the outputy, and
the watermarked proofπid, the cost for an adversary with identiﬁerid′ (distinct
from id) to produce a valid proofπid′ is about as large as reevaluating the VDF
altogether. Indeed, a honest prover, after having computed the outputy, can
computeπid at a reduced cost thanks to some precomputed intermediate values.
But an adversary does not have these intermediate values, so they would have
to computeπid′ from scratch. This is an exponentiation inG, with exponent of
bit-length close tot; without any intermediate values, it requires in the order of
t sequential group operations, which is the cost of evaluating the VDF.
8 Circumventing impossibility results with timing
assumptions
In addition to the applications mentioned in the introduction, we conclude this
paper by showing that atrapdoor VDF also constitutes a new tool for circum-
venting classic impossibility results. We illustrate this through a simple identiﬁ-
cation protocol constructed from a trapdoor VDF, where a party, Alice, wishes
to identify herself to Bob by proving that she knows the trapdoor. Thanks to
the VDF timing properties, this protocol features surprising zero-knowledge and
deniability properties challenging known impossibility results.
As this discussion slightly deviates from the crux of the article (the construc-
tion of a trapdoor VDF), most of the details are deferred to Appendices B and C,
and this section only introduces the main ideas. As in the rest of the paper, the
parameter k is the security level. The identiﬁcation protocol goes as follows:
1. Bob chooses a challengec∈{ 0, 1}k uniformly at random. He sends it to
Alice, along with a time limit∆, and starts a timer.
2. Alice responds by sending the evaluation of the VDF on inputc (with time
parameter∆), together with the proof. She can respond fast using her trap-
door.
3. Upon receiving the response, Bob stops the timer. He accepts if the veriﬁ-
cation of the VDF succeeds and the elapsed time is smaller than∆.
Remark 7. We present here only an identiﬁcation protocol, but it is easy to
turn it into an authentication protocol for a messagem by having Alice use the
concatenation c||m as input to the VDF.
22

Since only Alice can respond immediately thanks to her secret, Bob is convinced
of her identity. Since anyone else can compute the response to the challenge in
time ∆, the exchange is perfectly simulatable, hence perfectly zero-knowledge.
It is well-known (and in fact clear from the deﬁnition) that a classic interactive
zero-knowledge proof cannot have only one round (this would be a challenge-
response exchange, and the simulator would allow to respond to the challenge
in polynomial time, violating soundness). The above protocol avoids this im-
possibility thanks to a modiﬁed notion of soundness, ensuring that only Alice
can respondfast enough. This is made formal in Appendix B, via the notion of
zero-knowledge timed challenge-response protocol.
Remark 8. Note that this very simple protocol is also eﬃcient: the “time-lock”
evaluation of the VDF does not impact any of the honest participants, it is
only meant to be used by the simulator. Only the trapdoor evaluation and the
veriﬁcation are actually executed.
Finally, this protocol has strong deniability properties. Indeed, since anyone
can produce in time∆ a response to any challenge, any transcript of a conversa-
tion that is older than time∆ could have been generated by anyone. In fact the
protocol ison-line deniableagainst any judge that suﬀers a communication delay
larger than∆/2. Choosing∆ to be as short as possible (while retaining sound-
ness) yields a strongly deniable protocol. Full on-line deniability is known to be
impossible in a PKI (see [11]), and this delay assumption provides a new way to
circumvent this impossibility. This is discussed in more detail in Appendix C.
Acknowledgements
The author wishes to thank a number of people with whom interesting discus-
sions helped improve the present work, in alphabetical order, Dan Boneh, Justin
Drake, Alexandre Gélin, Novak Kaluđerović, Arjen K. Lenstra and Serge Vau-
denay. Finalisation of this work has been partially funded by the ERC Advanced
Grant 740972 (ALGSTRONGCRYPTO).
References
1. M. Bellare and S. Goldwasser. Encapsulated key escrow. Technical report, 1996.
2. M. Bellare and S. Goldwasser. Veriﬁable partial key escrow. InProceedings of the
4th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, CCS ’97, pages
78–91, New York, NY, USA, 1997. ACM.
3. I. Biehl, J. Buchmann, S. Hamdy, and A. Meyer. A signature scheme based on the
intractability of computing roots. Designs, Codes and Cryptography, 25(3):223–
236, 2002.
4. D. Boneh, J. Bonneau, B. Bünz, and B. Fisch. Veriﬁable delay functions. In E. F.
Brickell, editor,Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2018, pages 757–788. Springer,
2018.
5. D. Boneh, B. Bünz, and B. Fisch. A survey of two veriﬁable delay functions. Cryp-
tology ePrint Archive, Report 2018/712, 2018. https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/712.
23

6. D. Boneh and M. Franklin. Eﬃcient generation of shared rsa keys. InAnnual
International Cryptology Conference, pages 425–439. Springer, 1997.
7. D. Boneh and M. Naor. Timed commitments. In M. Bellare, editor,Advances in
Cryptology – CRYPTO 2000, volume 1880 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science,
pages 236–254. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2000.
8. J. Buchmann and S. Hamdy. A survey on iq cryptography. InIn Proceedings of
Public Key Cryptography and Computational Number Theory, pages 1–15, 2001.
9. J. Buchmann and H. C. Williams. A key-exchange system based on imaginary
quadratic ﬁelds.Journal of Cryptology, 1(2):107–118, 1988.
10. CPU-Z OC world records. http://valid.canardpc.com/records.php, 2018.
11. Y.Dodis,J.Katz,A.Smith,andS.Walﬁsh. Composability and On-Line Deniability
of Authentication, pages 146–162. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg,
2009.
12. J. Drake. Ethereum 2.0 randomness. August 2018 workshop at Stanford hosted by
the Ethereum Foundation and the Stanford Center for Blockchain Research, 2018.
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13OAGL42yzOvQUKvJJ0EBsAAne25yA7sv9RC8FfPhtyo.
13. J. Drake. Minimal VDF randomness beacon. Ethereum Research post, 2018.
https://ethresear.ch/t/minimal-vdf-randomness-beacon/3566.
14. J. L. Hafner and K. S. McCurley. A rigorous subexponential algorithm for compu-
tation of class groups.Journal of the American mathematical society, 2(4):837–850,
1989.
15. A. K. Lenstra and B. Wesolowski. Trustworthy public randomness with sloth,
unicorn and trx.International Journal of Applied Cryptology, 2016.
16. K. Pietrzak. Simple veriﬁable delay functions. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2018/627, Version 20180626:145529, 2018. https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/627.
17. M. O. Rabin. Transaction protection by beacons.Journal of Computer and System
Sciences, 27(2):256 – 267, 1983.
18. R. L. Rivest, A. Shamir, and D. A. Wagner. Time-lock puzzles and timed-release
crypto. 1996.
19. T. Sander. Eﬃcient accumulators without trapdoor extended abstract. InInterna-
tional Conference on Information and Communications Security, pages 252–262.
Springer, 1999.
20. U. Vollmer. Asymptotically fast discrete logarithms in quadratic number ﬁelds.
In International Algorithmic Number Theory Symposium (ANTS), pages 581–594.
Springer, 2000.
A Proof of Remark 1
Model H as a random oracle. Suppose that
trapdoorH
sk (x,∆ ) = tsk(H(x),∆ ),
evalH
pk(x,∆ ) = epk(H(x),∆ ),and
verifypk(x,y,∆ ) = vpk(H(x),y,∆ ),
for procedurest,e and v that do not have access toH.
LetA be a player of the∆-evaluation race game. Assume that the output
B ofA is limited to a numberq of queries toO and H. We are going to build
24

an algorithmA′ that wins with same probability asA when its outputB′ is not
given access toO.
Let (Yi)q
i=1 be a sequence of random hash values (i.e., uniformly distributed
randomvaluesin {0, 1}2k).Firstobserve thatAwins the∆-evaluation racegame
with the same probability if the last step runs the algorithmBO′,H′
instead of
BO,H, where
1. H′ is the following procedure: for any new requested inputx, ifx has pre-
viously been requested byA toH then outputH′(x) = H(x); otherwise set
H′(x) to be the next unassigned value in the sequence(Yi);
2. O′ is an oracle that on inputx outputs tsk(H′(x),∆ ).
With this observation in mind, we buildA′ as follows. On input pk,A′
ﬁrst runsAH which outputsAH (pk) = B. Let X be the set of inputs of the
requests thatA made toH. For anyx∈ X,A′ computes and stores the pair
(H(x), evalpk(x,∆ ))inalist L.Inaddition,itcomputesandstores (Yi,e pk(Yi,∆ ))
for eachi = 1,...,q , and adds them toL.
Consider the following procedureO′: on input x, look for the pair of the
form (H′(x),σ ) in the listL, and outputσ. The output ofA′ is the algorithm
B′ =BO′,H′
. It does not require access to the oracleO anymore: all the potential
requests are available in the list of precomputed values. Each call toO is replaced
by a lookup in the listL, soB′ has essentially the same running time asB.
ThereforeA′ wins the∆-evaluation race game with same probability asA even
when its outputB′ is not given access to a evaluation oracle.
B Timed challenge-response identiﬁcation protocols
A timed challenge-response identiﬁcation protocol has four procedures:
keygen→ (pk, sk) is a key generation procedure, which outputs a prover’s public
key pk and secret keysk.
challenge→c which outputs a random challenge.
respondsk(c,∆ )→r is a procedure that uses the prover’s secret key to respond
to the challengec, for the time parameter∆.
verifypk(c,r,∆ )→ true or false is a procedure to check ifr is a valid response to
c, for the public keypk and the time parameter∆.
The security levelk is implicitly an input to each of these procedures. The
keygen procedure is used the generate Alice’s public and secret keys, then the
identiﬁcation protocol is as follows:
1. Bob generates a randomc with the procedurechallenge. He sends it to Alice,
along with a time limit∆, and starts a timer.
2. Alice respondsr = respondsk(c,∆ ).
3. Bob stops the timer. He accepts ifverifypk(c,r,∆ ) = true and the elapsed
time is smaller than∆.
25

Given a time parameter∆, a∆-response race gameand an associated notion
of ∆-soundness can be deﬁned in a straightforward manner as follows.
Deﬁnition 8 (∆-response race game).LetA be a party playing the game.
The parameter∆ : Z>0→ R>0 is a function of the (implicit) security parameter
k. The∆-response race gamegoes as follows:
1. The random procedurekeygen is run and it outputs a public keypk;
2. A(pk) outputs an algorithmB;
3. A random challengec is generated according to the procedurechallenge;
4. BO(c) outputs a valuer, whereO is an oracle that outputs the evaluation
respondsk(c′,∆ ) on any inputc′⁄=c.
Then,A wins the game ifT (B,c )<∆ and verifypk(c,r,∆ ) = true.
Deﬁnition 9 (∆-soundness). A timed challenge-response identiﬁcation pro-
tocol is∆-sound if any polynomially bounded player (with respect to the implicit
security parameter) wins the above∆-response race game with negligible proba-
bility.
It is as immediate to verify that a sound and∆-sequential VDF gives rise to
a ∆-sound identiﬁcation protocol (via the construction of Section 8). Similarly,
the completeness of the identiﬁcation protocol (that a honest run of the proto-
col terminates with a successful veriﬁcation) is straightforward to derive from
the fact that the veriﬁcation of a valid VDF output always outputstrue. There
simply is one additional requirement: if the procedurerespondsk(c,∆ ) requires
computation time at leastϵ1, and the channel of communication has a transmis-
sion delay at leastϵ2, we must haveϵ1 + 2ϵ2 < ∆. Finally thezero-knowledge
property is deﬁned as follows.
Deﬁnition 10 (Zero-knowledge).A timed challenge-response identiﬁcation
protocol is (perfectly, computationally, or statistically) zero-knowledge if there
is an algorithmS that on input k, ∆, pk and a random challenge(k,∆ ) pro-
duces an output (perfectly, computationally, or statistically) indistinguishable
from respondsk(c,k,∆ ), and the running time ofS is polynomial ink.
In a classical cryptographic line of though, this zero-knowledge property is
too strong to provide any soundness, since an adversary can respond to the
challenge with a running time polynomial in the security parameter of Alice’s
secret key. This notion starts making sense when the complexity of the algorithm
S is governed by another parameter, here∆, independent from Alice’s secret.
For the protocol derived from a VDF, the zero-knowledge property is ensured
by the fact that anyone can compute Alice’s response to the challenge in time
polynomial ink, with the procedureeval.
26

C Local identiﬁcation
The challenge-response identiﬁcation protocol derived from a VDF in Section 8
is totally deniable against a judge, Judy, observing the communication from a
long distance. The precise deﬁnition of on-line deniability is discussed in [11]. We
refer the reader there for the details, but the high level idea is as follows. Alice
is presumably trying to authenticate her identity to Bob. Judy will rule whether
or not the identiﬁcation was attempted. Judy interacts with an informant who is
witnessing the identiﬁcation and who wants to convince Judy that it happened.
This informant could also be a misinformant, who is not witnessing any iden-
tiﬁcation, but tries to deceive Judy into believing it happened. The protocol is
on-line deniable if no eﬃcient judge can distinguish whether she is talking to an
informant or a misinformant. The (mis)informant is allowed to corrupt Alice or
Bob, at which point he learns their secret keys and controls their future actions.
When some party is corrupted, Judy learns about it.
Itisshownin[11]thatthisstrongdeniabilitypropertyisimpossibletoachieve
in a PKI. To mitigate this issue, they propose a secure protocol in a relaxed
setting, allowing incriminating aborts. We propose an alternative relaxation of
the setting, where Judy is assumed to be far away from Alice and Bob (more
precisely: the travel time of a message between Alice and Bob is shorter than
between Alice (or Bob) and Judy6). For example, consider a building whose
access is restricted to authorised card holders. Suppose the card holders do not
want anyone other than the card reader to get convincing evidence that they are
accessing the building (even if the card reader is corrupted, it cannot convince
anyone else). Furthermore, Alice herself cannot convince anyone that the card
reader ever acknowledged her identiﬁcation attempt. In this context, the card
and the card reader beneﬁt from very eﬃcient communications, while a judge
farther away would communicate with an additional delay. An identiﬁcation
protocol can exploit this delay to become deniable, and this is achieved by the
timed challenge-response identiﬁcation protocol derived from a VDF.
The idea is the following. Suppose that the distance between Alice and Judy
is long enough to ensure that the travel time of a message from Alice to Judy is
larger than∆/2. Then, Judy cannot distinguish a legitimate response of Alice
that took some time to reach her from a response forged by a misinformant that
is physically close to Judy.
More precisely, considering an informantI who established a strategy with
Judy, we can show that there is a misinformantM that Judy cannot distinguish
from I. First of all, Bob cannot be incriminated since he is not using a secret
key. It all boils down to tracking the messages that depend on Alice’s secret key.
6 A message does not travel directly from Alice (or Bob) to Judy, since Judy is only
communicating with the (mis)informant. What is measured here is the sum of the de-
lay between Alice and the (mis)informant and the delay between the (mis)informant
and Judy. There is no constraint on the location of the (mis)informant, but we as-
sume a triangular inequality: he could be close to Alice and Bob, in which case his
communications with Judy suﬀer a delay, or he could be close to Judy, in which case
his interactions with Alice and Bob are delayed.
27

Consider a run of the protocol with the informantI. Lett0 be the point in time
where Alice computeds = trapdoorsk(c,∆ ). The delay implies two things:
1. The challenge c is independent of anything Judy sent after point in time
t0−∆/2.
2. The ﬁrst message Judy receives that can depend ons (and therefore the ﬁrst
message that depends on Alice’s secret) arrives aftert0 +∆/2.
From Point 1, at timet0−∆/2, the misinformant (who is close to Judy) can
already generatec (following whichever procedureI and Judy agreed on), and
start evaluating evalpk(c,∆ ). The output is ready at timet0 +∆/2, so from
Point 2, the misinformant is on time to send to Judy messages that should
depend on the signatures.
In practice.The protocol is deniable against a judge at a certain distance away
from Alice and Bob, and the minimal value of this distance depends on∆. An
accurate estimation of this distance would require in the ﬁrst place an equally
accurate estimation of the real time∆ (in seconds) a near-optimal adversary
would need to forge the response. This non-trivial task relates to the discussion
of Section 3.2.
Assuming reasonable bounds for∆ have been established, one can relate the
distance and the communication delay in a very conservative way through the
speed of light. We want Judy to stand at a suﬃcient distance to ensure that
any message takes at least∆/2 s to travel between them, so Judy should be
at least c∆/2 m away, wherec ≈ 3.00× 108 m/s is the speed of light. For
security against a judge standing100 m away, one would require∆≈ 0.66 µs.
Alice should be able to respond to Bob’s challenge in less time than that. At
this point, it seems unreasonable to assume that such levels of precision can be
achieved (although in principle, distance bounding protocols do deal with such
constraints), yet it remains interesting that such a simple and eﬃcient protocol
provides full deniability against a judge that suﬀers more serious communication
delays.
28

Data: an elementg in a groupG (with identity 1G), a prime number𝓁, a
positive integert, two parametersκ,γ > 0, and a table of precomputed
valuesCi =g2iκγ
, fori = 0,..., ⌈t/(κγ)⌉.
Result: g⌊2t/𝓁⌋.
// define a function get_block such that ⌊2t/𝓁⌋ = ∑
i get_block(i)2κi
get_block← the function that on inputi returns⌊2κ(2t−κ(i+1) mod 𝓁)/𝓁⌋;
// split κ into to halves
κ1←⌊κ/2⌋;
κ0←κ−κ1;
x← 1G∈G;
for j←γ− 1 to 0 (descending order) do
x←x2κ
;
for b∈{ 0,..., 2κ− 1} do
yb← 1G∈G;
end
for i← 0,..., ⌈t/(κγ)⌉− 1 do
b← get_block(iγ +j); // this could easily be optimised by
computing the blocks iteratively as in Algorithm 4 (but
computing blocks of κ bits and taking steps of κγ bits),
instead of computing them one by one.
yb←yb·Ci;
end
for b1∈{ 0,..., 2κ1− 1} do
z← 1G∈G;
for b0∈{ 0,..., 2κ0− 1} do
z←z·yb12κ0 +b0;
end
x←x·zb12κ0
;
end
for b0∈{ 0,..., 2κ0− 1} do
z← 1G∈G;
for b1∈{ 0,..., 2κ1− 1} do
z←z·yb12κ0 +b0;
end
x←x·zb0;
end
end
return x;
Algorithm 5:Faster algorithm to computeg⌊2t/𝓁⌋, given some precomputa-
tions.
29