Zooko's triangle - Wikipedia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Jump to content 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 
 
 
 
 
 Trilemma in computer science concerning network naming schemes 
 Some of this article's listed sources may not be reliable . Please help improve this article by looking for better, more reliable sources. Unreliable citations may be challenged and removed. ( October 2025 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) 
 
 Zooko's triangle defines three traits of a network protocol identifier as Human-meaningful , Decentralized and Secure . 
 Zooko's triangle is a trilemma of three properties that some people consider desirable for names of participants in a network protocol : [ 1 ] 
 Human-meaningful: Meaningful and memorable (low-entropy) names are provided to the users. 
 Secure: The amount of damage a malicious entity can inflict on the system should be as low as possible. 
 Decentralized: Names correctly resolve to their respective entities without the use of a central authority or service. 

 Overview [ edit ] 
 Zooko Wilcox-O'Hearn conjectured that no single kind of name can achieve more than two. For example: DNSSec offers a human-meaningful, secure naming scheme, but is not decentralized as it relies on trusted root-servers; .onion addresses and bitcoin addresses are secure and decentralized but not human-meaningful; and I2P uses name translation services which are secure (as they run locally) and provide human-meaningful names – but fail to provide unique entities when used globally in a decentralised network without authorities. [ a ] 

 Solutions [ edit ] 
 Several systems that exhibit all three properties of Zooko's triangle include: 
 Computer scientist Nick Szabo 's paper "Secure Property Titles with Owner Authority" illustrated that all three properties can be achieved up to the limits of Byzantine fault tolerance . [ 2 ] 
 Activist Aaron Swartz described a naming system based on Bitcoin employing Bitcoin's distributed blockchain as a proof-of-work to establish consensus of domain name ownership. [ 3 ] These systems remain vulnerable to Sybil attack , [ 4 ] but are secure under Byzantine assumptions. 
 Far-right political blogger Curtis Yarvin implemented a decentralized version of IP addresses in Urbit that hash to four-syllable, human-readable names. [ 5 ] 
 Several platforms implement refutations of Zooko's conjecture, including: Twister (which use Swartz' system with a bitcoin-like system), Blockstack (separate blockchain), Namecoin (separate blockchain), LBRY (separate blockchain – content discovery, ownership, and peer-to-peer file-sharing), [ citation needed ] Monero , OpenAlias , [ 6 ] Ethereum Name Service , and the Handshake Protocol . [ 7 ] 

 See also [ edit ] 
 Petname 
 GNU Name System 
 CAP theorem 

 Notes [ edit ] 
 
 ↑ Zooko Wilcox-O'Hearn has since deleted the original blogpost 
 

 References [ edit ] 
 
 ↑ Zooko Wilcox-O'Hearn. "Names: Decentralized, Secure, Human-Meaningful: Choose Two" . Archived from the original on 20 October 2001. 
 ↑ Nick Szabo , Secure Property Titles Archived 24 November 2017 at the Wayback Machine , 1998 
 ↑ Aaron Swartz, Squaring the Triangle: Secure, Decentralized, Human-Readable Names Archived 15 January 2011 at the Wayback Machine , Aaron Swartz, 6 January 2011 
 ↑ Dan Kaminsky, Spelunking the Triangle: Exploring Aaron Swartz’s Take On Zooko’s Triangle Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine , 13 January 2011 
 ↑ Curtis Yarvin: Urbit- A Clean Slate Functional Operating Stack – λC 2016 , retrieved 9 July 2022 
 ↑ Monero core team (19 September 2014). "OpenAlias" . Archived from the original on 11 February 2015 . Retrieved 3 February 2015 . 
 ↑ Director of The Handshake Project (12 July 2021). "Handshake" . Archived from the original on 25 August 2021 . Retrieved 2 September 2021 . 
 
 
 
 v t e Object-capability security Concepts 
 Principle of least privilege (PoLP) 
 Confused deputy problem 
 Ambient authority 
 File descriptor 
 C-list 
 Object-capability model 
 Capability-based security 
 Capability-based addressing 
 Zooko's triangle 
 Petnames 
 Operating systems , kernels 
 Capsicum 
 Fuchsia 
 Genode 
 GNOSIS → KeyKOS → EROS → CapROS 
 Hydra 
 iMAX 432 
 Midori 
 NLTSS 
 seL4 
 HarmonyOS ( HarmonyOS NEXT ) 
 Phantom OS 
 Programming languages 
 Caja–Cajita 
 E 
 Joe-E 
 Joule 
 File systems 
 Tahoe-LAFS 
 Specialised hardware 
 BiiN 
 Cambridge CAP 
 CHERI 
 Flex 
 IBM System/38 
 Intel iAPX 432 
 Plessey System 250 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Zooko%27s_triangle&oldid=1345830381 " 
 Categories : Triangles named after people Secure communication Decentralization Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles lacking reliable references from October 2025 All articles lacking reliable references Use dmy dates from October 2020 Webarchive template wayback links All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from July 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Zooko's triangle 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 4 languages 
 
 

 Add topic