WORLD WHITEPAPERS
Updated on March 25th, 2026
This series of whitepapers explores the technical foundations, philosophical underpinnings and 
economic structures of the World Network.
1. Building World — World Network: Proof of Human, new economic infrastructure and the 
real human network to maximize individual empowerment.
2. Achieving Proof of Human  — How to build Proof of Human in a way that is aligned 
with individual empowerment.
3. Advancing Decentralization — How to decentralize the World Network and minimize 
central points of failure.
4. Designing for Scale  — How WLD powers governance, identity and financial access for 
every verified human.
Disclaimer: This white paper complies with Title II of Regulation (EU) 2023/1114 and, to the best of the knowledge 
of the management body, the information presented in the white paper is fair, clear and not misleading and the white 
paper makes no omission likely to affect its import.
This white paper has not been approved by any competent authority in any Member State of the European Union. 
The person seeking admission to trading is solely responsible for the content of this white paper.

1. World
World Network: Proof of Human, new economic infrastructure, and the real human network to 
maximize individual empowerment.
1.1. Motivation
The internet has enormous potential to uplift people all over the world by providing everyone 
with equitable access to information. But due to recent and accelerating increases in malicious 
bot activity, the internet is dying which threatens the stability of democracy. At the same time, 
amplified by AI, the internet could empower people orders of magnitude more if we had:
1. Universal financial infrastructure: Anyone (human or AI) can interact economically with 
everyone else.
2. Proof of human (PoH): Anyone can know (in a private way) whether they are interacting 
with a human (or a bot on behalf of a human), which helps increase integrity.
If those existed, they would:
• Expand access and participation in the global economy by enabling billions of people and 
AI agents to transact.
• Enable positive-sum collaboration by ensuring interactions can be trusted to be from a 
human or a bot acting on behalf of a human.
• Significantly reduce scaled abuse, impersonation, and fraud.
And as a result, they could transform the Internet in ways that meaningfully:
• Accelerate global progress and prosperity by creating a more trustworthy foundation for 
the economy.
• Increase global GDP due to improved efficiency and access.
We are approaching a moment that may make such infrastructure essential. The accelerating 
capabilities of AI agents create an existential challenge for the integrity of digital interaction 
and the stability of our society. AI-generated content and actions are becoming indistinguish -
able from human interaction, and automated messages become increasingly personalized and 
scalable. As a result, the ability to reliably distinguish humans from AI becomes critical. A 
world without PoH risks mass disinformation, election manipulation, scalable fraud and privacy-
invasive tracking, all of which seriously threaten the stability of democracy and human agency. 
As cost per capability declines and automation enables continuous operation, influence scales 
with compute rather than people. At the same time, PoH protects freedom of speech by elevating 
human voices above bots and it empowers people through agents that are not blocked as bots 
but recognized to act on a human's behalf. Contrary to common perception, (well-implemented) 
PoH does not enable surveillance but protects against it because it preempts the need for 
privacy-invasive monitoring.

Figure  1:  Overview of PoH. (1) AI's growing indistinguishability, capability, and accessibility erode traditional 
signals of authentic human participation, enabling single actors to masquerade as many. (2) PoH has many 
benefits including fraud prevention, impersonation resistance, democratic resilience, free speech protection, and 
enabling benefits distribution (if needed). (3) Common concerns around surveillance, centralized databases, 
and biometrics can be addressed through cryptography and decentralization. (4) Maximizing individual 
empowerment requires PoH that is private, inclusive, and fraud-resistant. Iris biometrics and purpose-built 
hardware are the only known combination that meets all constraints.
But building PoH is unexpectedly challenging. Government IDs are either ineffective or prob -
lematic due to surveillance risks, and face-based methods exclude a large portion of the global 
population. Creating a surveillance-free and effective solution requires new technology. World 
is an attempt to build a real human network based on PoH using purpose-built hardware and 

modern cryptography. We advocate for scaling this infrastructure rapidly to prevent avoidable 
threats to democracy and avoid less effective, censorship-enabling, privacy-invasive measures 
that are incentive-misaligned with individual freedom in the long-term.
Bureaucracies tend to address major problems only after significant damage has occurred, which 
helps focus on what matters most. However, a reactive approach to PoH is highly undesirable. 
This not only results in avoidable negative consequences but also increases the likelihood of a 
less considered and simpler implementation, which would likely undermine efficacy, privacy and 
freedom of speech.
While such infrastructure is unprecedented in scale and extremely difficult to accomplish, the 
potential upside for humans makes it worth trying. These motivations led to the founding of 
the World project.
1.2. Introducing World
World is the real human network built to accelerate every human in the age of AI. It is 
based on decentralized PoH that lets people and applications distinguish humans from AI 
online, combined with an open financial layer that enables anyone to transact and participate 
in the global economy. At scale, World becomes a trust and financial layer for the internet, 
strengthening privacy, reducing abuse, and supporting safe, reliable AI adoption.
1.2.1. A Network Built Around People
The goal of World is to create universal means for verifying humanness and a financial layer 
that uses that verification to enable participation in the global digital economy. It builds a 
foundation where anyone can prove they are human without compromising their privacy, and 
transact with anyone else through open, decentralized infrastructure.
The network is built around a few core tenets.
• Proof of human (PoH): PoH is a missing digital primitive that establishes a person is 
both a real human and unique from other humans. As AI advances, this will become 
essential infrastructure for establishing trust online.
• User-owned: PoH enables universal access to network ownership for users, so that 
everyone directly benefits from the network they are creating.
• Incentive alignment: Distributing network ownership encourages participants to join and 
grow the network until it becomes self-sustaining.
• Scale: The larger the network, the more useful and valuable it becomes to its participants.
1.2.2. The Vision for the World Network
Like Aadhaar and UPI in India enabled over a billion people to authenticate and transact 
digitally and accelerated progress  as a country, World aims to extend that idea globally. 
But unlike national systems, it is open source, privacy-preserving, and interoperable across 
jurisdictions.
In the limit, the World Network is not only a programmable financial and identity layer that 
is native to the internet, but also a decentralized network between people that is foundational 
to the internet economy in a world with AI.
The World Network consists of five core technologies: World ID, the Orb, World App, World 
Chain, and Worldcoin (WLD). Where the Orb and World App are the first but likely not the 
only implementation of their kind. Together, these core technologies form an open ecosystem 
that grows through community participation and shared benefit.
The World whitepaper series shares the components, reasoning, and implementation of the 
World project, its current state and its roadmap for the future. This first whitepaper in the 

series provides an introduction and overview of World, while the others detail specific areas of 
the project.
1.2.3. Requirements for Proof of Human
The implementation of PoH can take many forms, leading to vastly different societal and 
individual consequences. These potential outcomes span a spectrum, from intrusive, Orwellian 
surveillance to systems that safeguard privacy and actively enable free expression. Consequently, 
the core system architecture, along with the resulting capabilities and incentives for all partic-
ipants, must be designed with extreme care.
To establish design requirements, we first need to define what we value most. We place the 
highest importance on individual empowerment because we believe this leads to the most 
beneficial implementation for human society. This means the design requirements should prevent 
surveillance, maximize privacy, ensure broad participation and accessibility, and uphold freedom 
of expression and individual agency.
PoH is still nascent and the thinking around requirements will likely evolve from practical 
experience as adoption increases. Starting from first principles, valuing individual empowerment 
above all else leads to the following design requirements:
Inclusive and scalable. It must be feasible for every single human on the planet to participate: 
across geographies, economic conditions, varying levels of digital literacy, and levels of technical 
access. A global PoH must be maximally inclusive and accessible to everyone. It should be 
capable of distinguishing billions of individuals, provide a feasible path to implementation at 
global scale, and enable participation regardless of nationality, race, gender, age, disability, or 
economic means. Inclusivity is essential because a PoH that excludes large portions of humanity 
cannot serve as a universal primitive for trust. Identity systems in the past have often reinforced 
existing inequities by limiting participation to those with specific credentials, technologies, or 
forms of access.
Unique and high-integrity. Individuals should be able to acquire exactly one PoH credential, and 
not more. In order for uniqueness to be effective, the uniqueness verification must be extremely 
difficult to spoof or bypass.
Person-bound. Credentials must be difficult to sell or transfer at scale; otherwise, uniqueness 
collapses via a black market for credentials.
Privacy-preserving. Proving that one is a unique human should not require revealing identity, 
and should support unlinkable use across contexts. While there are many situations where 
identity is important and useful, there are also many situations where it is important that users 
be able to interact with one another and with internet services in a pseudonymous or even fully 
anonymous manner. This must also be possible while differentiating humans from bots, so PoH 
must be capable of providing users with the ability to interact in an anonymous manner.
Recoverable. If someone loses access to their credentials or their credentials are compromised, 
they need to be able to recover them. However, if users are managing their own keys, this is a 
significant challenge because there is no central authority to help restore or revoke keys.
Revocable. In instances where an issuer is found to be compromised or malicious, the impact 
can be mitigated by removing affected PoH credentials from the list of accepted credentials. 
If issuance is decentralized across multiple issuing locations and only a subset is affected, the 
respective subset could be revoked by the issuing authority itself.
Decentralized and open source. Most existing identity systems are centralized and rely on trusted 
entities such as governments, financial institutions, or global social networks. These models 
limit inclusivity, introduce potential conflicts of interest, and create systemic risks when the 
supporting organizations change or fail. A global PoH system capable of supporting the World 
Network must be decentralized, without any single point of control or failure. It should begin 
with an open source and clearly defined implementation that promotes transparency and allows 

anyone to inspect, verify, or build upon the system. The underlying economic model must also 
be independent and sustainable so that the system can operate without relying on external 
subsidies or gatekeepers.
Taking the above requirements seriously requires investing in a very sophisticated system, 
which requires substantial resources to establish but seems likely to lead to the best outcome 
for humanity. The second whitepaper ( Achieving Proof of Human ) examines the underlying 
mechanisms for verifying uniqueness and obtaining a World ID at scale.
1.2.4. Requirements for the Financial Layer
A financial layer for the internet should meet the following key requirements:
Scalability. The network must support high transaction throughput with low latency to enable 
billions of people to transact seamlessly.
Decentralization. It should be governed and operated through open, permissionless infrastruc -
ture that avoids single points of failure or control.
Privacy. Transactions and balances should be secured through cryptographic mechanisms that 
protect individual data while maintaining the transparency required for network integrity.
Together, these requirements create a financial foundation that is human-centric, resilient, and 
scalable for the World Network. Today, these remain active work in progress.
1.2.5. Core Components of the World Network
The World Network is built on a set of core components that implement the requirements 
described above. These include World ID, the Orb, NFC ID credentials, World App and World 
Chain, each with a distinct function within the ecosystem. Alongside these components, World-
coin (WLD) serves as the network's native token, which is designed to distribute ownership to 
all network participants and serve as economic unit of account between actors in the network 
in the long term.
Figure  2:  A simplified diagram of how users verify a World ID and present the PoH credential through World 
App to authenticate with relying parties.
1.2.5.1. World ID
World ID is open source, decentralized infrastructure that enables relying parties to verify 
credentials of the person they are interacting with, including that they are a real human. Each 
World ID is designed to be personbound, meaning it can only be used by the individual to 
whom it was issued. Unlike conventional digital identity systems, World IDs allow individuals 
to preserve their privacy (including maintaining their anonymity) because the protocol uses 
personal custody, anonymized multi-party computation (AMPC) and zero-knowledge proofs 
(ZKP).
The World ID SDK lets any developer directly integrate with the World protocol, so they can 
both contribute to and benefit from the World Network. The MiniKit SDK makes it easy to 
build JavaScript web apps that run inside World App. With MiniKit, any web application can 
request PoH, authentication, and other credentials from World App or other authenticators. 
Eventually, the Authenticator Kit should also enable developers to integrate their own apps 
directly as World ID authenticators, giving users more options beyond World App.

Figure  3:  A simplified diagram of World ID presentments as zero-knowledge proofs through World App.
1.2.5.2. Orb
The Orb is a high-security, open source camera that makes it possible to verify you are a unique 
human without sharing anything else about you. It takes images of your face and eyes, then 
encrypts and stores them on your phone as a personal custody package so that only you control 
them. Encrypted, anonymized codes  generated by the Orb can then be used by the World 
protocol to determine that a person is unique and issue a PoH credential. All of this is done 
simply and easily in a few seconds.
The Orb also produces verifiably human images that are cryptographically signed, creating a 
new root of trust for the internet. These cryptographically verified signals can strengthen both 
security and privacy across a range of applications.
• Face Auth builds on the Orb-generated credential to provide privacy-preserving multi-
factor authentication. It enables a verified human to confirm that they are taking an 
action, such as signing in or approving a transaction, adding security without exposing 
personal data.
• Deep Face also leverages the Orb-generated credential to allow World ID holders to prove 
that their digital representation, such as a profile photo or live video, matches a real 
human rather than a deepfake. The verification is done privately, without revealing the 
original image or identity.
Figure  4:  The Orb.

1.2.5.3. NFC ID Credential
A self-custodial credential is derived from valid government identity documents (starting with 
ICAO-compliant, NFC chip-enabled passports and national ID cards), enabling people to prove 
things about themselves online—like their age or nationality—without revealing their identity. 
This credential introduces a new secure, privacy-preserving way for people to interact online 
without directly uploading and exposing ID data, helping reduce the risk of personal information 
being compromised while ensuring individuals meet the requirements needed to keep online 
platforms free from fraud and misuse.
All ID authentication happens locally on the user's phone and the data remains encrypted, 
stored locally on the device, and managed within World App. No ID data is uploaded, stored, 
or shared with TFH, World Foundation or any third party.
1.2.5.4. World App
World App is the first frontend client to the World Network. It provides a self-custodial 
wallet that allows users to access financial services on World Chain and manage their World 
ID credentials. The app guides individuals through Orb verification and uses cryptography to 
let them prove facts to third parties without revealing their identity. World App also enables 
developers to connect to the World Network through Mini Apps and access World ID proofs. 
While it is the first frontend, developers are encouraged to build their own applications and 
wallets that integrate with the network. The World ID SDK is designed to make this process 
open and permissionless.
Figure 5:  A simplified diagram of how a user joins the World Network. After downloading World App, the 
users visit an Orb for in-person verification to obtain their PoH credential. A verified World ID is then issued 
and securely stored on the user's phone. In regions where permitted, verified users can claim their share of the 
World Network in WLD.
1.2.5.5. World Chain
World Chain is the financial layer of the World Network. It is designed to function as an open, 
human-centered financial system.
World Chain is implemented as a layer-2 network on Ethereum and is built on the Superchain 
architecture, which supports high throughput and low-latency transactions. By combining 
decentralized execution with human-based prioritization, World Chain establishes the financial 
layer that powers PoH and adds decentralized security to the broader infrastructure of the 
World Network.
1.2.5.6. Worldcoin (WLD)
WLD is the native digital currency of the World Network, designed to become the most widely 
used and accessible form of value exchange in the world.
Ownership of WLD represents a proportional share in the value created by the World Network. 
Unlike traditional platforms where value accrues to a small number of centralized entities, WLD 
enables decentralized ownership by distributing tokens to verified participants through PoH 
credentials in World ID. This model ensures that everyone contributing to or participating in the 
network can share in its success, aligning incentives for growth, sustainability, and responsible 
governance.

The issuance of WLD is governed by smart contracts that transparently manage on-chain 
distribution, fees, and incentives (certain distributions are currently administered by the World 
Foundation). This structure allows the World Network to evolve as a self-sustaining ecosystem 
that resists centralized control and stays aligned with the interests of its global community.
For further details refer to the Decentralization whitepaper and on the supply model and 
network fees, see the supply and fees blog posts.
1.3. Applications and Impact
World has the potential to expand equal opportunity worldwide by enabling anyone, regardless 
of location or socioeconomic status, to participate in the global digital economy. Through 
universally accessible, decentralized infrastructure, World lowers barriers to access, allowing 
more people to connect, transact, and create value online. As more verified users join, the 
network becomes more valuable, which strengthens what already exists and unlocks entirely 
new applications that rely on a trusted PoH credential.
Figure  6:  Examples of how the World Network can be applied across a variety of identity, economic, and 
financial use cases.
1.3.1. Economic Access
Billions of people still live outside the global economy. Even for those included, moving money 
remains slow and expensive. World Chain connects people through a shared financial layer that 
works at internet scale. Inside World App, Mini Apps already let users hold digital money, 
exchange assets, and use fast, low-cost financial rails. The Morpho Mini App, which brings 
decentralized lending to verified users, shows how human verification can make DeFi safer and 
more inclusive.
Examples like the COVID Crypto Relief fund for India, which raised over $400 million in digital 
assets, show how decentralized networks can coordinate and distribute resources globally. World 
builds on that idea and makes it accessible to everyone. This same infrastructure could one day 
connect billions through a unified, human-centered network for value exchange.
Whether AI will create the need for broad redistribution systems, such as benefits for impacted 
individuals, universal basic compute, or comparable per-person allocations, is highly uncertain. 
However, if such mechanisms become important, there is currently no infrastructure capable 
of supporting this on a large scale without catastrophic failure modes–especially if it crosses 
geographical borders. Any system that distributes resources per person is immediately vulner -
able to Sybil attacks. Without a reliable way to identify unique humans, redistribution collapses 
under unlimited duplication and resource drain.
1.3.2. Trust and Identity
Verifying humanness privately introduces a new layer of integrity to the internet. By enabling a 
way to constrain the number of accounts any one individual can create, PoH can directly address 
scalable deception at its core. Limiting the number of accounts makes artificial amplification of 
messages and manufactured appearance of broad consensus much more expensive and ideally 

uneconomical. This significantly reduces the reach and impact of disinformation campaigns. 
Furthermore, this limitation allows existing mechanisms—such as content provenance, moder-
ation, community notes, and polls—to function as they were intended.
The same participation constraint directly limits large-scale fraud and impersonation. Attacks 
like phishing, account selling, benefits fraud, and identity theft all rely on the ability to cheaply 
multiply identities. By enforcing per-human access limits, PoH makes these attacks difficult to 
scale. This is achieved without the need for continuous behavioral monitoring or cross-service 
data correlation. Consequently, systems can effectively prevent reply bots, reduce rapid re-entry 
after a ban, and limit the resale of high-influence accounts while still preserving pseudonymity 
and avoiding persistent surveillance.
Verification also strengthens protection against deception, which is becoming more important as 
deepfake technology continues to make impersonation increasingly convincing and easy. Many 
PoH implementations naturally support the creation of locally held (on the user's phone), signed 
selfie pictures taken during the initial verification. These selfies can be used to sign messages, 
images, or video streams as originating from a particular human. While this does not detect 
AI-generated content, it significantly raises the cost of impersonation, in much the same way 
that two-factor authentication reduces account takeover risk without proving intent. Essentially 
someone can prove that a particular video stream was authorized by someone that actually looks 
like the person in the video stream. This makes it very hard to impersonate someone because 
it is very hard to obtain an authentic signed face picture of someone (assuming the PoH issuer 
has good security) and then also spoofing a real-time local faceID-like authentication challenge. 
Applications include authenticating participants in video conferencing, signing emails, and 
verifying profile pictures and social interactions between individuals. Tools like Deep Face, a 
Mini App that uses World ID authentication, can accurately confirm that a video or image 
originates from a real human while keeping identity private.
Practical uses are already emerging. For example, World ID's partnership with Match Group 
enables age verification on Tinder in Japan, helping users connect safely while maintaining 
privacy. In gaming, verified human credentials such as Razer ID with World ID support fair play 
and stronger community standards as AI agents begin to appear in all types of online games.
1.3.3. Prevent Scalable Disinformation and Protect Public Discourse
PoH is essential for enabling authentic public discourse in a world where humans and bots 
are difficult to distinguish. By preventing bad actors from scaling misinformation and manufac-
turing the appearance of widespread support for specific beliefs or events, PoH safeguards the 
integrity of human participation in online opinion formation.
A public "town square" depends on people forming opinions based on engagement with other 
human participants. When humans cannot be distinguished from bots, individual contributions 
are harder to surface, and people may give up expressing their opinion when they assume most 
participants are bots. PoH empowers individuals and enables public debate by elevating human 
voices above automated noise.
At the same time, as AI lowers the cost of aggregation and analysis, collecting large-scale human 
input becomes more feasible than before. For governments, this makes real-time policy input 
more efficient. PoH ensures that such participation can be trusted to come from real people 
and not bots.
1.3.4. Agent on Behalf of Human
As AI agents become more capable, an increasing share of human-like online activity will 
originate from bots rather than from humans. Communication, coordination, and economic 
actions will often be carried out asynchronously, at high frequency, and over long horizons by 
systems acting on someone's behalf.

To enable the same benefits PoH creates for human-to-human interaction, agent-mediated 
activity also needs to be anchored to real humans. This can be implemented as revocable 
delegation of someone's PoH to an agent. Actions taken by an agent can therefore be verified 
as occurring on behalf of a human, even when the execution is automated. Importantly, this 
does not enable someone to delegate PoH to a large number of bots — it preserves the core 
property of PoH: participation and influence are human-bounded and therefore rate-limited.
1.3.5. Financial Empowerment
Programs that depend on human participation like incentives, research studies, or loyalty 
rewards can operate without being distorted by bots or duplicate accounts. The TBD.vote Mini 
App enables this by letting unique participants receive rewards for sharing their feedback and 
opinion without exposing personal data, producing better information and fairer outcomes.
PoH also redefines how credit can function. Instead of depending on collateral or opaque 
scoring models, lenders can extend credit to verified humans through secure, privacy-preserving 
credentials. The Credit Mini App is an early example of this, showing how lending can become 
more accessible and accountable.
1.4. Looking Forward
World was conceived with the mission of building the real human network to accelerate humans 
in the age of AI. PoH, the foundation of the World Network, introduces a new digital primitive 
that can redefine how people interact and transact online. By enabling applications and services 
that are inherently human-centric, such as Mini Apps that integrate privacy-preserving human 
verification and finance, PoH makes a new class of interactions possible — built on trust, 
authenticity, and universal access.
Such infrastructure is unprecedented in both scale and complexity. There are many challenges 
that could prevent its success.
• Scale: Public resistance to biometric verification or the logistical complexity of deploying 
verification hardware worldwide could impact the project's scale.
• Equitable access: Barriers related to geography, regulation, technology, or cost could 
create unequal access and undermine the goal of universal participation.
• Governance and incentives: Misaligned incentives or concentration of ownership could 
distort participation and reduce the effectiveness of decentralized decision-making.
• Security: The system may be vulnerable to technical failures, security breaches, or other 
unforeseen errors.
There are also risks that demand continuous attention. If implemented poorly, systems like PoH 
could threaten privacy, limit free expression, or concentrate control. To guard against these 
outcomes, World is being developed in the open, with transparency, distributed issuance, and 
privacy as core design principles.
Recognizing PoH as critical infrastructure still requires a meaningful shift in public perception 
which is likely the biggest limiting factor for proactive adoption and safeguarding humans 
in a world with advanced machine intelligence. Although awareness of scalable automation 
is increasing, PoH is usually framed as a narrow anti-bot measure rather than as a founda -
tional layer for human coordination and societal stability. Misconceptions around surveillance 
and privacy that conflate privacy-preserving uniqueness verification with centralized identity 
systems that collect and monitor personal data slow down adoption. At the same time, AI 
capabilities continue to advance in both scale and coordination, and as machine capabilities 
compound, the absence of widely adopted, high-integrity PoH becomes more consequential. 
Adoption must accelerate in parallel with AI progress.

The remaining whitepapers in this series outline the current thinking on how to design and 
evolve the World Network so that it becomes a durable and beneficial piece of global infra -
structure for humanity.
1.5. Other Resources
The World roadmap is a dynamic and evolving blueprint that is subject to change and refine -
ment through input and decisions from the World community. Whether you are a developer, a 
user, an enthusiast or simply someone interested in the future of decentralized systems, please 
reach out through the appropriate channel:
• Join the community discussion on X or Discord.
• Contribute to open source repositories on GitHub.
• Visit the World developer documentation.
• Reach out directly to the World team for support questions.
• View live on-chain data on the Dune dashboard.

2. Achieving Proof of Human
How to build Proof of Human in a way that is aligned with individual empowerment.
2.1. Introduction
In the previous whitepaper, we introduced the idea of an anonymous Proof of Human (PoH) and 
its high level building blocks. We detailed the accelerating capabilities of AI agents that create 
an existential challenge for the integrity of digital interaction and why a globally inclusive, high-
integrity, and privacy-preserving PoH mechanism is critical infrastructure for humanity.
This whitepaper, the second in the World whitepaper series, focuses on how to build PoH. It 
outlines the key design requirements needed to implement a PoH that is optimized for individual 
empowerment at scale. We then evaluate how to implement those in practice including candidate 
approaches to establishing a root of trust. Eventually we detail how World implements privacy-
preserving PoH via World ID, which includes the Orb, Anonymized Multi-Party Computation 
(AMPC), and zero-knowledge proof-based authentication.
2.2. Building Proof of Human
The implementation of PoH can take many forms, leading to vastly different societal and 
individual consequences. These potential outcomes span a spectrum, from intrusive, Orwellian 
surveillance to systems that safeguard privacy and actively enable free expression. Consequently, 
the core system architecture, along with the resulting capabilities and incentives for all partic-
ipants, must be designed with extreme care. This section outlines the key properties that we 
believe are essential for creating the best possible future for humanity, separate from the World 
project. World ID is our effort to translate these properties into a working system.
2.2.1. Derivative Design Requirements
To establish design requirements, we first need to define what we value most. We place 
the highest importance on individual empowerment because we think this leads to the most 
beneficial implementation for (human) society. This means, the design requirements should be 
defined such that they: prevent surveillance, maximize privacy, ensure broad participation and 
accessibility, and upholding freedom of expression and individual agency.
2.2.1.1. Importance of Uniqueness
Counterintuitively, PoH alone is insufficient because, without uniqueness, it is vulnerable to 
relay attacks. In this scenario, a small group of humans could authenticate repeatedly to serve 
millions of automated agents—picture a "human call-center" dedicated solely to passing PoH 
challenges for bots.
Strict uniqueness—exactly one credential per person—is essential to PoH integrity. Even 
allowing individuals to hold a small number of credentials creates a fatal vulnerability. If PoH 
becomes critical societal infrastructure, the incentive to bypass it will be enormous. Those who 
can acquire multiple credentials will likely find it lucrative to sell all but one. If just 1% of the 
US population sold nine out of ten credentials, a single malicious actor could masquerade as 31 
million Americans. Since often only a fraction of people participate in any given online debate, 
this is usually more than enough to dominate public discourse.
The stakes extend well beyond social media. Elected governments wield immense power, making 
them high-value targets for manipulation. During elections in particular, bot networks armed 
with illegitimately transferred PoH credentials could pose as passionate citizens, drown out 

real voices, manufacture false consensus, and ultimately shift voter opinion enough to alter 
outcomes.
To maximize individual empowerment and protect the integrity of democratic society, PoH 
uniqueness must therefore be exact.
Figure 7:  Building PoH in a way that maximizes human agency leads to high level design requirements as 
explained in the previous whitepaper. Those requirements can be broken down into derivative requirements 
for the three core components of PoH: root of trust, uniqueness verification and credential issuance, and 
authentication. These requirements are costly to implement in practice but important to empower individuals 
and prevent privacy-invasive tracking.
2.2.2. Three Stages of Proving Uniqueness
The process of proving unique humanness involves three distinct stages:
Stage 1: Root of Trust  — Proving an individual is human and acquiring verifiable, high-
integrity information. This information is then used in the second stage to establish uniqueness.
Stage 2: Uniqueness Verification and Credential Issuance — Verifying uniqueness based 
on the previously acquired information and issuing a unique human credential.
Stage 3: Authentication — Using the issued credential to prove one's unique human status 
to other parties.
Based on the initial design requirements, we can deduce derivative design requirements for each 
of these three stages:
2.2.2.1. Design Requirements for Root of Trust
• Universal Eligibility. Anyone needs to be eligible.
• Uniqueness Accuracy. In order to be able to establish uniqueness, there needs to be 
enough entropy to distinguish between O(10B) humans without falsely rejecting a single 
person.

• Fake Human Resistance. The humanness and uniqueness test needs to be very hard 
to bypass or spoof. This includes the ability for the issuer to act quickly if a compromise 
becomes known.
• Borderless and Interoperable.  Citizens from different countries need to be able to 
prove to each other that they are humans; high-integrity uniqueness means countries need 
to be able to trust the PoH from citizens of other countries to not be bots, to prevent 
influence operations.
• Proof of Country. In order to trust PoH in certain high-stakes scenarios with national 
context (e.g., opining on presidential candidates) and to prevent global income arbitrage, 
it is important for people to be able to prove in which country their credential was issued.
• Multi-issuer. To ensure inclusivity and make sure no entity has the power to exclude 
someone from receiving a PoH, there need to be multiple entities as a root of trust—but 
importantly, they all need to tie into the same uniqueness set.
• Checks and Balances. It needs to be possible to validate one's PoH via another issuer, 
which can make it game-theoretically uneconomical to create fake identities.
• No Upload of Sensitive Information. To preserve privacy, no sensitive information 
should be uploaded.
2.2.2.2. Design Requirements for Uniqueness Verification
• Multi-party Uniqueness Check.  The uniqueness check should be performed by 
multiple parties to prevent any single party from blocking anyone.
• Secure Compute. It must be as difficult as possible for any single party to adversarially 
inject fake identities or deviate from the comparison protocol.
• No Centralized Database with Sensitive Information. Sensitive information must 
not be aggregated or stored in any centralized database.
• Recovery. Enable the legitimate owner to reclaim their PoH following theft or sale.
2.2.2.3. Design Requirements for Authentication
• Unlinkable Pseudonymity. It should not be possible to identify who someone is or to 
track someone across different contexts.
• Illicit Transfer Prevention. The system needs to ensure that the person using the 
PoH credential is the one it was issued to, via a person-bound second factor for periodic 
reauthentication.
2.3. Ideal Root of Trust for PoH
2.3.1. Overview
When evaluated against the design requirements outlined above, most candidate PoH mecha -
nisms fail for structural reasons. Below, we evaluate several approaches.
2.3.1.1. Online Accounts
The simplest attempt to establish PoH at scale uses existing accounts such as email, phone 
numbers, and social media. This method fails because one person can have multiple accounts. 
Further, accounts are not person-bound—they can be easily transferred—and CAPTCHAs 
are ineffective because AI agents are now capable of bypassing them. Current methods for 
preventing duplicate accounts, such as analyzing activity patterns, tend to fail when users have 
strong incentives to create multiple identities or commit fraud, as demonstrated by large-scale 
attacks targeting well-established financial services.

2.3.1.2. Credit Cards
Credit cards have been used in several contexts as a proxy for PoH. Although this method can 
increase friction for fraudsters, it is far from effective. Beyond not being private, credit cards 
allow fraudsters to create many duplicates—the simplest method is to pay for many accounts, 
and fraudsters can acquire large numbers of credit cards either through virtual credit cards 
or on the dark web. Advances in generative AI let automated agents mass-produce plausible 
credit identities. Furthermore, many people lack access to financial services. Even in the U.S., 
6% of adults don’t have a bank account, and credit card ownership is not universal even among 
those with accounts. In less developed countries, the share without access is significantly higher. 
Therefore, credit cards are not an inclusive solution for PoH.
2.3.1.3. Official ID Verification (Know Your Customer)
Online services often request proof of ID to comply with KYC requirements. In theory, a similar 
mechanism could be used to issue a PoH based on government documents, but this faces multiple 
challenges (discussed in depth in Section X). More than 50% of the global population does 
not have an ID that can be verified digitally, and building KYC verification while preserving 
anonymity is inherently contradictory. Zero-knowledge proofs and digitally signed IDs  can 
partially address the privacy concern, but NFC-readable IDs are far less prevalent and people 
can hold multiple government IDs, so perfect uniqueness cannot be achieved.
2.3.1.4. Web of Trust
The underlying idea is to verify identity claims in a decentralized manner—for example, PGP 
key-signing parties or projects like Proof of Humanity  that use face photos and video calls. 
However, these systems heavily rely on individuals and are susceptible to human error and Sybil 
attacks. Staking assets can increase security but decreases inclusivity, and these systems carry 
privacy concerns (e.g., publishing face images) and susceptibility to fraud using deepfakes.
One could also use information about relationships between people to infer which users are real. 
Projects like EigenTrust, BrightID and soulbound tokens (SBTs) propose more sophisticated 
rules based on the observation that social relations can constitute a unique identifier.1 However, 
the required relationships are slow to build on a global scale, and it seems inevitable that AI, 
possibly assisted by humans acquiring multiple "real world" credentials, will be able to create 
such profiles at scale. Ultimately, these approaches require giving up the notion of a unique 
human entirely.
2.3.1.5. Biometrics
Approaches based on online accounts, social graphs, webs of trust, or financial credentials can 
be mimicked by AI systems and ultimately require accepting multiple identities per person. 
Biometric verification is the only class of mechanisms that can simultaneously satisfy all design 
requirements at global scale when implemented correctly. Biometrics are universal, enabling 
access irrespective of nationality, race, age, gender, or economic means. They provide a natural 
recovery mechanism and can be used for authentication, making the PoH credential person-
bound. Among biometric modalities, iris recognition uniquely satisfies the accuracy, scalability, 
and privacy requirements, as shown in Fig. 2.
1SBTs are not designed to be a PoH mechanism. Rather, they complement applications where proving relationships rather 
than unique humanness is needed. However, they are sometimes mentioned in this context and are therefore relevant to 
discuss.

Figure  8:  An overview of candidate PoH mechanisms evaluated against the core design requirements established 
in the previous whitepaper. Only biometrics satisfy all five requirements when implemented correctly.
2.3.2. Deep Dive: Why a Document-based Root of Trust is Not Ideal for Individual Empow-
erment
In a future shaped by highly capable machine intelligence, the foundations of economic and 
social power shift. As automation increases, control over bots as well as the ability to determine 
who counts as a unique human will become an increasing source of power. Any entity that 
controls PoH gains significant influence over access to platforms, economic participation, and 
collective decision-making. Therefore, any incentive misalignment between issuer and partic -
ipants can lead to catastrophic failures. The inherent nature of how documents are issued 
suggests that any PoH system based on them will result in long-term incentive misalignment.
Despite benefits—such as legal incentives against hacking and the fact that one billion people 
already have a verifiable document—the structural limitations of document-based PoH make it 
unviable on a global scale.
Figure  9:  Properties of document-based PoH evaluated against core design requirements. Five of eight 
requirements (red) cannot be met by document-based approaches.
Evaluating against design requirements:
2.3.2.1. Universal Accuracy
Establishing uniqueness using government documents is challenging. Names are insufficient for 
deduplication due to high collision rates (e.g., nearly 40,000 James Smiths in the US), and 

the birthday problem further complicates uniqueness checks. A document's numerical identifier 
is the only viable uniqueness signal, but this creates a vulnerability where individuals could 
acquire multiple PoH simply by reporting their document "lost" and obtaining a new one. If 
1% of the US population participated, this could easily lead to tens of millions of "authentic 
human" bot accounts.
2.3.2.2. Universal Eligibility
Only about one in eight people possess documents that can be cryptographically verified. Basing 
PoH on documents would exclude many billions of people.
2.3.2.3. Fake Human Resistance
Some documents are cryptographically verifiable, making them relatively fraud resistant. 
However, document-based PoH incentivizes the theft of physical documents like passports. 
Stolen documents can be used to generate PoH or, in some implementations, be cloned without 
the owner's knowledge. As AI capabilities grow, the issuing infrastructure will need increasingly 
advanced capabilities—securing the root of trust, anomaly detection, cross-issuer verification, 
revocation mechanisms, and dynamic expiration dates. Developing these capabilities is likely 
better suited to publicly auditable and mutually verifiable companies rather than governments.
2.3.2.4. Borderless & Interoperable
Interoperability is relatively straightforward since verifiable documents are already standards-
based. However, the fact that governments could create fake documents and inject fake PoH 
credentials makes it hard to trust foreign credentials. This leads to a replication of geographical 
borders on the internet and may lead to exclusion of free exchange between people from different 
countries.
2.3.2.5. Proof of Country
Documents include the issuing country, which makes proof of location straightforward.
Multi-issuer. Wherever PoH becomes a prerequisite for interaction, the issuer gains leverage. 
Loss of PoH will eventually imply exclusion from large parts of the internet, including significant 
limits on freedom of speech. This can be mitigated if no single entity has a monopoly over 
issuance, which is not possible for government documents.
Checks & Balances. The ability to issue PoH credentials directly translates to power. For 
government documents, no second issuer exists for cross-checking and validation. For biometric-
based PoH, there can be a diverse set of hardware devices from different manufacturers that 
can be cross-checked against each other.
No Upload of Sensitive Information. It is possible to verify the integrity of cryptographi-
cally verifiable documents without uploading sensitive information.
2.3.3. Deep Dive: Why Iris-based Root of Trust Maximizes Individual Empowerment
To our knowledge, a set of secure hardware devices from different companies (based in different 
countries) that issue a root of trust based on the entropy of the iris is the root of trust 
that maximizes individual empowerment and is the only root of trust that fulfills all design 
requirements. Note: this is not where World ID is today, but it should get there eventually. 
Iris-based hardware—while able to fulfill all requirements—also comes at the cost of being very 
capital intensive and operationally complex to scale.

Figure  10:  Unlike document-based approaches (Fig. 3), an iris-based root of trust satisfies all core design 
requirements for PoH that maximizes individual empowerment.
2.3.3.1. Why Iris Biometrics Specifically
Among biometric modalities, iris recognition uniquely satisfies the accuracy, scalability, and 
privacy requirements of global uniqueness verification. There are two modes to consider: 1:1 
authentication (comparing a user's template to a single enrolled template, like Face ID) and 
1:N verification (comparing against a large set of templates to prevent duplicates). Global 
PoH requires the latter—comparing biometrics against eventually billions of previously verified 
humans. If the mechanism is not accurate enough, an increasing number of users will be 
incorrectly rejected. Face biometrics are not accurate enough and billions of people would be 
falsely denied a Proof of Human.
Figure 11:  There are two different modes for biometrics. The simpler mode is 1:1 authentication, which 
involves comparing a user's template against a single previously enrolled template. This is commonly used 
in technologies such as Face ID, which compares an individual against a single facial template. However, for 
global Proof of Human, 1:N verification is required. This mode involves comparing a user's template against 
a large set of templates to ensure that there are no duplicate registrations.
Iris biometrics can achieve false match rates beyond 2.5×10-14 (one false match in 40 trillion), 
which is several orders of magnitude more accurate than the current state of the art in face 
recognition, while maintaining a suitable false non-match rate. The structure of the iris is 
remarkably stable over time, difficult to alter, and essentially unique to each individual. The 
iris texture is formed by random morphogenesis during gestation—an epigenetic development 
independent of personal factors—so even genetically identical individuals (identical twins or a 
person's two irises) have completely uncorrelated iris patterns.
Other biometric modalities exhibit fundamental limitations:

• Fingerprints can be unreliable since cuts or wear alter ridge patterns, and capturing 
high-quality images becomes difficult as fingerprints degrade over time. Using all ten 
fingerprints or combining modalities is vulnerable to combinatorial attacks.
• Facial recognition offers better liveness detection than DNA, but its accuracy is far 
below that of iris biometrics. At global scale with billions of people, the error rates would 
lead to double-digit percentage false rejection rates, falsely rejecting billions.
• DNA sequencing could in theory be highly accurate, but reveals extensive private 
information, collection is intrusive, difficult to scale, and there is no practical way to 
ensure liveness.
Figure  12:  Overview of how different biometric modalities impact key considerations such as privacy, accuracy, 
scalability, and integrity (red indicates insufficient or problematic). Iris biometrics is the only modality that 
enables all of them.
2.3.3.2. Why Purpose-Built Hardware Is Needed
Meeting the design requirements necessitates guarantees that cannot be achieved through 
software or general-purpose hardware alone. Reliable verification depends on:
• Compute integrity: Image capture and processing must occur within a tamper-resis -
tant environment and cannot be emulated, replayed, or modified. This requires hardware-
backed signing, secure execution, and protections against compromised enrollment flows.
• Multispectral imaging and active liveness detection:  Single-sensor consumer 
devices lack the signal diversity to reliably distinguish genuine presentations from high-
quality spoofs in adversarial settings.
• High-resolution infrared imaging: Required to capture sufficient iris entropy across 
eye colors. Visible-spectrum cameras suffer from reflections and low contrast, particularly 
for darker irises.
While smartphones provide the most straightforward and scalable option, the correlation 
between image quality and biometric accuracy is well established. Both smartphones and 
existing imaging devices lack sufficient resolution to accurately capture iris biometrics, resulting 
in unacceptably high error rates. Furthermore, phones and existing iris cameras lack multi-
angle and multispectral cameras as well as active illumination to detect presentation attacks 
with high confidence. A widely viewed video demonstrates an effective method for spoofing 
Samsung's iris recognition and underscores how easily such attacks succeed without sufficiently 
advanced hardware.
Additionally, an on-device trusted execution environment (TEE) is needed to guarantee that 
verifications originate from fully compliant devices rather than emulators. While some smart -
phones include specialized hardware (Apple's Secure Enclave, Google's Titan M), many do 
not or can only be accessed by the device manufacturer. Without such protections, attackers 
could spoof both image capture and enrollment requests, creating unlimited fraudulent PoH 
credentials.

2.3.4. Walking Through the Design Requirements
2.3.4.1. Universal Accuracy
Global uniqueness requires false match rates on the order of 10-20 to ensure no single person 
on Earth would mistakenly be excluded. Iris-based algorithms achieve error rates on the order 
of 10-14 today. Those can be further improved. If improvements aren't sufficient, they can be 
combined with face-based entropy which would already today achieve error rates below 10-20.
2.3.4.2. Universal Eligibility
Iris biometrics far surpass the inclusivity of alternatives like verifiable documents by many 
orders of magnitude. Many health conditions, like cataracts to a degree, do not impede iris 
biometrics. Specialized verification centers could facilitate alternative verification for individuals 
with severe eye conditions, via e.g., facial biometrics.
2.3.4.3. Fake Human Resistance
A purpose-build biometric camera can include multispectral cameras, a TEE, verifiable software, 
and multiple secure elements to make spoofing very expensive. Any root of trust issued by 
a particular hardware device can be revoked through a governance mechanism. Implementing 
incentive mechanisms for decentralized audits can raise the bar far beyond what hardware 
security alone could achieve.
2.3.4.4. Borderless & Interoperable
Biometrics and hardware are inherently borderless and it is straightforward to build interop -
erable infrastructure.
2.3.4.5. Proof of Country
Hardware devices can verify location via celltower and GPS connectivity plus continuous audits. 
With ongoing reauthentication, continuous travel to spoof PoH country credentials becomes 
expensive.
2.3.4.6. Multi-Issuer
Multiple companies across different jurisdictions can build auditable and verifiable hardware 
devices to the same specifications. This prevents censorship.
2.3.4.7. Checks & Balances
Hardware devices from different companies can issue iris-based roots of trust to the same speci-
fications, enabling cross-checks. With staked security deposits and periodic reauthentication 
across different devices, it can become game-theoretically uneconomical for a manufacturer to 
inject fake identities.
2.3.4.8. No Upload of Sensitive Information
It is possible to issue an iris-based root of trust without uploading sensitive information.
Therefore, we conclude that an iris-based root of trust fulfills all design requirements.

2.4. The Orb
Based on the conclusion that iris biometrics via purpose-built hardware is the ideal root of trust, 
Tools for Humanity (TFH) built the Orb: a high-security, open-source camera that anonymously 
issues an AI-safe PoH credential. The Orb is purpose-built to verify humanness and ensure 
uniqueness in a fraud resistant and inclusive way. The humanness check is performed locally on 
the device, without requiring any images to be stored or uploaded. World Foundation's vision 
is for device development, production, and operation to be decentralized over time so that no 
single entity will be in sole control of World ID issuance.
2.4.1. Top Level Requirements
The Orb's primary use case of verifying unique humanness led to the following requirements:
• Privacy: The Orb must process images locally on-device and then securely transfer them 
to the user's custody. This eliminates any requirement for storing images on the Orb or 
uploading them to a central backend.
• Security: The Orb must only verify World IDs of genuine humans, meaning it must be 
highly resistant to spoofing and tampering, even in adversarial environments.
• Transparency and Verifiability: The Orb must require minimal trust in its manu -
facturers and operators. There must be a way for the public to audit Orbs, including 
transparency into its design, and the state of software and cryptographic keys (see the 
Decentralization whitepaper).
• Scalability: The Orb must generate iris codes consistently and accurately enough to 
allow for 8+ billion unique World IDs without significant false matches or false non-
matches.
The Orb was designed to maximize trust, user experience, and scalability, with minimal 
compromises on imaging quality and security. The device’s key imaging components include a 
wide-angle RGB/Infrared (IR) imaging for capturing high-quality face images, a telephoto IR 
camera with a steerable focus using custom lenses that can capture high-quality iris images, 2-D 
Time of Flight (2D-ToF) for face depth mapping, high-resolution thermal imaging for liveness 
detection, and imaging at orders of magnitude higher resolution than the industry standard.
Additional software and hardware components to highlight include secure on-device biometrics 
image processing that ensures the images are authentic and generates a signed iris code, fraud 
and presentation attack detection (PAD) measures to ensure liveness and humanness (see more 
below), and, lastly, images are only analyzed in local memory, and are deleted after verification.
2.4.2. Hardware Design
The Orb's design is open sourced so others can trust, learn from, and improve the design. The 
work is intended to serve as an inspiration and starting point for other protocol-compatible 
verification devices.
The Orb consists of two hemispheres separated by a retaining ring tilted at 23.5° (inspired by 
the angle of Earth's rotational axis). Once the shells are removed, the Orb divides into four 
core parts:
• Front: Optical system
• Middle: Mainboard and Powerboard
• Back: Computing unit and cooling
• Bottom: Speaker and docking chamber for an exchangeable battery
The optical system consists of several multispectral sensors behind a 2D mirror gimbal to 
capture high-resolution iris and face images, along with additional liveness signals. Key imaging 
components include:

• Multi-camera, multi-spectral optical system featuring wide-angle RGB/Infrared (IR) 
imaging for high-quality face images
• Telephoto IR camera with steerable focus using custom lenses for high-quality iris images
• 2-D Time of Flight (2DToF) for face depth mapping
• High-resolution thermal imaging for liveness detection
• Imaging at orders of magnitude higher resolution than industry standard
The mainboard holds a powerful computing unit enabling secure on-device image processing. 
The rear hemisphere contains the cooling system and compute module. An exchangeable battery 
can be inserted from the bottom for mobile operation; constant power via USB-C is also available 
for stationary use.
Figure  13:  All relevant components of the Orb.
2.5. Security and Privacy
2.5.1. Presentation Attacks and Liveness Detection
The Orb's presentation attack detection (PAD) system runs in real time to distinguish genuine 
presentations from attack attempts. For enhanced privacy, all PAD checks run locally—images 
are never uploaded for PAD processing. The Orb layers multiple complementary checks across 
a diverse sensor suite to maximize the cost and complexity of attacks:
• Challenge-response and passive liveness checks ensure that biometric images on screens, 
printouts, or simulations are rejected
• A thermal sensor verifies the heat signature matches that of a live human
• Additional checks for fraudulent biometrics (e.g., patterned contact lenses) and obscured 
biometrics (e.g., looking away from the camera)
• Continuous hardening through internal red teaming and external programs

2.5.2. Hardware Security
Two unique cryptographic keys are permanently burned into the Orb's hardware: one provi -
sioned into the main SoC during manufacturing and another in a hardware secure element that 
cannot be exported. The Orb will not operate unless both keys are valid and their environments 
are intact, and no code can run without a valid cryptographic signature. Additional features 
include active device tamper monitoring, fraud detection, secure element for authenticity, and 
an accessible SD card for auditors to validate code.
2.5.3. Third-Party Audits & Testing
The Orb sets a high bar for defending against scalable attacks. However, any hardware system 
interacting with the physical world requires continual enhancements. Contributor red teams 
test various attack vectors. Several audits (Theori, Trail of Bits, Least Authority) have been 
conducted, and a bug bounty program establishes incentives for external findings.
2.6. Distribution
2.6.1. Current
Wide-scale Orb distribution is paramount to bootstrapping PoH from an abstract protocol 
into something relying parties can actually use. Today, the operational model combines trained 
operators, large-scale partnerships, and TFH-led flagship locations. Dedicated operators provide 
predictable hours and high-quality sessions. TFH is integrating with established retail and venue 
partners to reach people where they already are: transit hubs, shopping corridors, campuses, 
and civic spaces. TFH continues to run flagship sites to set the bar on safety, privacy, and user 
experience, and to validate operational playbooks before handing them to partners. TFH is 
targeting mass deployments globally, prioritizing high-density areas and layering mobile and 
pop-up routes to close gaps.
2.6.2. Future
The target state is a way to verify your World ID within easy reach of every person across the 
globe. The network will grow from professional operators into a broad ecosystem including retail 
counters, service desks, campus groups, community organizations, and independent providers. 
As the technology standardizes and decentralizes, the operator role becomes more lightweight. 
The hardware footprint will follow the same arc: form factors enabling mobility and others 
optimized for unattended use. As consumer hardware evolves and begins to offer widely available 
secure execution and camera pipelines that meet liveness and imaging quality thresholds, PoH 
verification will extend beyond dedicated Orbs to consumer-level hardware.

Figure  14:  A view of the planned distribution roadmap for the Orb as well as new device form factors to scale 
PoH verifications across the globe.
2.7. Verification of Uniqueness
As established earlier, uniqueness must be absolute—exactly one credential per person. The 
two hardest parts are making sure every human can receive a PoH and minimizing false 
acceptances of users that have previously verified. This section describes the generic architecture 
for achieving both, followed by World's specific implementation.
Determining whether a person has already verified requires global information from all prior 
verifications, so this process cannot happen locally on verification devices. Instead, a global 
uniqueness check service is required, complementing the verification hardware in the PoH 
issuance process. The critical properties are:
• Multi-party uniqueness check: The uniqueness check should be performed by multiple 
parties to prevent any single party from blocking anyone.
• Secure compute: It must be as difficult as possible for any single party to adversarially 
inject fake identities or deviate from the comparison protocol.
• No centralized database with sensitive information:  Sensitive information must 
not be aggregated in any centralized database.
• Recovery: Enable the legitimate owner to reclaim their PoH following theft or sale.
One way to implement these requirements is through a secure multi-party computation (SMPC) 
protocol that verifies uniqueness in an anonymous manner without revealing biometric data 
to any entity. At enrollment, biometric information is processed locally in a TEE on a custom 
biometric camera and transformed into encrypted, statistically random fragments by verifiable 
software. Those fragments are sent to the user's phone. The user can then choose to send them 
to multiple independent node operators. Those nodes have private state and jointly determine 
whether someone has verified before—crucially, in such a manner where no party learns any 
statistically meaningful information about the underlying data whatsoever, except whether the 
entry is unique.

Figure  15:  A diagram of a secure multi-party uniqueness (SMPC) check. When a new person verifies through 
the biometric hardware device, their iris data is converted into a unique code and split into multiple encrypted, 
statistically random fragments. Each SMPC party independently compares the new fragment against their 
set of existing encrypted fragments, and together, determine the existence of potential duplicates without 
revealing the underlying data to any party. If all SMPC results indicate that the fragment is unique, a signed 
Proof of Human credential is returned to the user. This process ensures that each Proof of Human corresponds 
to a single, unique human while preserving user anonymity.
If the uniqueness check is successful, the encrypted fragments are stored in the respective SMPC 
node and a signed PoH credential is returned to the user. Importantly, the credential should 
not be used directly to prove humanness, in order to prevent tracking across applications.
As PoH becomes more widely relied upon for platform access, economic participation, and 
public discourse, losing access to one's credential becomes a serious problem. However, enabling 
recovery conflicts with the uniqueness of PoH, making credential recovery challenging.
Any recovery mechanism must meet strict criteria: it must preserve the owner's privacy, and 
only the legitimate owner can be allowed to trigger it. This places severe requirements on the 
root of trust for recovery. Relying solely on a document like a passport is insufficient, as it 
would be too easy to impersonate the owner.
Crucially, recovery must deactivate the old access and issue new access without resetting the 
PoH's unique property. This is necessary to prevent individuals from fraudulently presenting 
as multiple people or circumventing a block issued due to misuse.
One way to implement this recovery is to store the PoH key in an SMPC system, accessible 
via user-stored authentication keys. If these authentication keys are compromised, the user can 
undergo a trusted verification process (e.g., via a secure biometric camera). This process would 
temporarily enable the user to deactivate the compromised keys, add new ones, and thus regain 
access.
2.7.1. World’s Implementation: Creating a Unique Iris Code
This section details how World implements the generic uniqueness architecture described above, 
beginning with how the Orb generates a unique iris code.

Iris recognition was first developed in 1993 by John Daugman. Unlike 2D face images that 
are mostly defined by landmarks, feature proportions and shapes, iris images present rich and 
complex texture with semi-periodic variations in image intensity. As a result, they contain 
strong signals in both the spatial and frequency domains, and effective analysis must take both 
into account. Examples of iris images can be found on John Daugman's website.
Although the field has advanced since the turn of the millennium, it continues to be heavily 
influenced by legacy methods and practices. Historically, the morphology of the eye in iris recog-
nition has been identified using classical computer-vision methods such as the Hough Transform 
or circle fitting. In recent years, deep learning has brought about significant improvements in 
the field of computer vision, providing tools for understanding and analyzing the eye physiology 
with unprecedented depth
Rather than using raw images directly, the Orb derives unique codes from iris texture patterns 
via frequency-based feature extraction (e.g., applying multi-scale Gabor wavelet filters  and 
quantizing their phase response).
Although the iris code is essentially random data not known to reveal any information about 
the person, the Orb also anonymizes the iris code to create fragments for the AMPC system. 
This is done on the Orb so that the uniqueness check can later be performed without any 
exposure of personal or personally identifiable information.
2.7.2. Scale and Error Rates
A false match occurs when two different people are incorrectly judged to be the same. A false 
non-match occurs when two samples from the same person are incorrectly judged to be different. 
These two metrics are the key performance indicators for any biometric system and constrain 
its scale.
At the beginning of the project, World established that in order to scale to a billion people, 
there must be a false match rate (FMR) —  or the probability of falsely matching two individual 
identities — of 1x10-12, so that even when matched against a billion unique identities, a new 
genuine user would only have a 1 in 1000 chance of getting falsely rejected and having to perform 
another signup. To reach this number, we need a FMR of 1x10-6 per iris (as detailed further in 
a blog post).
The verification system needs to reach these acute precision levels, while maintaining a false 
non-match rate (FNMR) —  the probability of accepting someone in the system a second time 
—  below 5x10-3.
These targets were exceeded in extensive, purpose-built test sets conducted prior to launch, 
where the project achieved an FMR of 2.25×10⁻¹⁴ at approximately 1×10⁻³ FNMR.
2.7.3. Limitations
Biometrics are probabilistic, and biometric verification has inherent error rates. In real-world 
operations, the measured error rate of the system for confusing any two people to be the same 
(false match rate) is approximately 1×10⁻¹², or about 1 in a trillion. On a billion-person scale, 
this translates to roughly a 99.999% true acceptance rate and a 0.001% false rejection rate, 
which remains significantly better than known alternatives.
As PoH becomes more important to everyday life, universal accessibility will matter. Everyone 
should be able to verify if they choose to do so. Many common eye conditions, including 
cataracts, do not meaningfully affect the accuracy of iris biometrics but there are some more 
severe eye conditions that can affect accuracy. In time, specialized centers could support 
alternative verification for individuals with severe eye conditions, for example through facial 
biometrics. Such extensions, however, would need careful design to preserve the system’s 
integrity.

2.8. World’s Implementation: Anonymized Multi-Party Computation (AMPC)
AMPC is World's specific implementation of the generic SMPC architecture described previ -
ously. It is an open-source, multi-party computation system that anonymizes and securely 
protects MPC fragments of Orb-verified World IDs. AMPC is not only one of the largest MPC-
based systems in production but also breaks new ground by leveraging high-end GPUs to 
significantly increase performance. These technologies set a new standard for privacy, security, 
and scalability in biometric verification.
2.8.1. Privacy Protections
AMPC offers additional privacy protections by eliminating the need for storing iris codes and 
avoiding plaintext Hamming distances during verification. It incorporates the latest advances 
in cryptographic multiparty protocols and ensures that no biometric data ever leave the user's 
device. Iris data is cryptographically processed directly on the Orb, rendering a single iris code 
into multiple encrypted fragments that do not individually reveal any information about the 
original. The fragments are end-to-end encrypted and transmitted to each compute node so 
that at no point is user data visible to any party.
One key privacy enhancement is how similarity comparisons are handled. Although iris codes 
are matched based on Hamming distance, AMPC does not reveal any information about the 
distances—only a binary result: whether the user is a match or not. The AMPC system reveals 
only a single bit per invocation: whether the individual has previously verified.
In addition, masks used to filter out noise and highlight relevant features during verification 
are also broken into fragments, ensuring they never exist in plaintext. This eliminates another 
piece of information and further enhances privacy.
2.8.2. Decentralization and Transparency
AMPC marks an important step toward decentralization and transparency. It also operates 
with reputable third-parties like Nethermind, a trusted and reputable blockchain and research 
engineering company, to operate an independent database in which the anonymized data is 
stored. Other independent operators include the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg (FAU) and 
UC Berkeley Center for Responsible Decentralized Intelligence  (RDI), with two additional 
institutions —  the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  (KAIST) and the 
University of Engineering and Technology in Peru (UTEC) — set to join the network. Today, 
AMPC is operated exclusively by these independent, trusted organizations, and neither World 
Foundation nor Tools for Humanity serve as parties in AMPC.
A governance board has been established, including independent external domain experts, to 
coordinate and supervise updates, ensure accountability, and govern onboarding of third parties 
to operate compute nodes.
2.8.3. Roadmap
Future improvements aim at scaling the system and reducing compute requirements to make it 
easier for new third parties to join. Trusted execution environments (TEEs) are in development 
to minimize potential manipulation. Further, AMPC is open source, and the community is 
encouraged to review, contribute to, and build upon this work. Looking ahead, the World ID 
4.0 protocol upgrade  introduces changes that strengthen the uniqueness and privacy layer, 
including abstract on-chain accounts with multi-key support, a distributed OPRF network for 
nullifier computation, enforced one-time-use nullifiers, and credential recovery via designated 
Recovery Agents.

2.9. World’s Implementation: Semaphore Set Registration
With AMPC, it is possible to prove that an individual is a member of a set—but that single 
bit of information is not sufficient for the more complex interactions envisioned for PoH. To 
enable those interactions, World uses another privacy technology: Semaphore.
Semaphore is a generic, open-source privacy layer for Ethereum applications based on 
zk-SNARKs (zero-knowledge succinct non-interactive argument of knowledge). Using zero 
knowledge, Semaphore allows Ethereum users (or users of any chain capable of verifying Groth16 
proofs) to prove their membership of a group and send signals (e.g., perform actions, cast votes) 
without revealing their original identity.
World's version of Semaphore is deployed as a smart contract on Ethereum, with a single set 
containing the hashes of the World ID secrets for all Orb-verified users. A commitment to this 
set is replicated to other chains using state bridges so that corresponding verifier contracts can 
be deployed there.
Individuals interact with the protocol through a wallet containing a Semaphore key pair specific 
to World ID. Semaphore does not use an ordinary elliptic curve key pair, but leverages a digital 
signature scheme using a ZKP primitive. The World ID secret is a series of random bytes. The 
signature is a ZKP that proves the person holds a secret that, when hashed, corresponds to an 
entry in the identity set. Specifically, the hash function is Poseidon over the BN254 scalar field. 
The hash of the World ID secret is not revealed or disclosed after initial enrollment.
2.9.1. Authenticating Using Proof of Human
2.9.1.1. Generic Architecture
A robust authentication mechanism is needed to prove that an action originates from a human. 
This mechanism must be privacy-preserving and prevent cross-context tracking:
• Unlinkable Pseudonymity: It should not be possible to identify who someone is or to 
track someone across different contexts.
• Illicit Transfer Prevention: The system needs to ensure the person using the PoH 
credential is the one it was issued to, via a person-bound second factor for periodic 
reauthentication.
One way to address unlinkable pseudonymity is through a combination of self-custody (user-
held key material) and zero-knowledge proofs. Credentials are held locally by users and can 
be presented without revealing identity or linking activity across contexts. A public, tamper-
resistant registry enables verification and revocation without exposing personal data.
Additionally, a second factor is required. The initial verification alone is insufficient to maintain 
integrity over time. Without continuous authentication, a credential holder could temporarily 
delegate access to a malicious actor while retaining the ability to reclaim it—making short-
term rental economically attractive. Continuous authentication, like face-based checks against 
embeddings from the initial verification, can be performed locally on the user's device. By 
requiring frequent reauthentication, the original owner cannot hand off their credential for 
extended periods. For high-stakes use cases, users can return to a purpose-built biometric 
camera for high-assurance authentication (an "anonymous notary").

Figure  16:  During enrollment (orange), a biometric camera captures images to confirm the user is a real human, 
then provides signed and encrypted template fragments to the user's device before permanently deleting the 
images. A SMPC network performs an encrypted uniqueness check to ensure the user has not previously 
enrolled, and the app publishes the proof of human commitment to a public registry. During verification 
(green), a relying party requests proof of humanness from the user's app, which generates and returns a zero-
knowledge proof (ZKP) paired with a nullifier. The relying party verifies this proof against the public registry, 
confirming the user is a unique human without revealing their identity.
2.10. World’s Implementation: Personal Custody Package
World's specific implementation of the generic authentication architecture begins with the 
Personal Custody Package (PCP). The data used by the Orb to determine a person is a 
real human is immediately packaged into a PCP, encrypted, sent to the user's device, and 
permanently deleted from the Orb.
World publicly announced personal custody in March 2024. At a high level, personal custody 
ensures that images taken by the Orb are not exposed to World Foundation's (or any third 
party's) backend systems, but are stored locally and readily available for the user.
As detailed in the Protocol whitepaper, PCP has evolved over time to generally describe a self-
custodial credential. There are now multiple types of PCPs, and as the World protocol becomes 
more established, the PCP format is expected to be publicly documented and standardized for 
interoperability between credential issuers and the protocol.
Currently, the Orb-specific PCP contains:
• Iris and face embeddings generated by the Orb
• Raw iris and face images
• MPC fragments for the AMPC system
Many data fields are individually encrypted with a key specific to the use case—for example, 
each MPC fragment is encrypted with the public key of the specific AMPC party. The entire 

PCP is then encrypted on the Orb with a key provided by the user, ensuring only the user can 
access it on their own device.
The PCP provides two primary functions:
1. Face Auth: A trusted face image from the verification process is compared against a 
selfie generated by the device.
2. Uniqueness enrollment: The included MPC fragments can be checked to determine 
whether the user has enrolled in the uniqueness service. Users can only enroll once to 
receive a unique PoH credential.
2.11. How to Address Common Concerns of PoH
Poorly implemented PoH creates severe risks. However, in a rigorous implementation (see section 
X), those risks can be contained:
2.11.1. Concern: PoH is a privacy risk and enables surveillance
Poorly designed PoH systems can be privacy invasive, enabling tracking across applications. 
However, a well-designed PoH implementation can be strongly privacy preserving by design. 
Without PoH, systems must infer legitimacy indirectly through continuous tracking: behav -
ioral monitoring, device fingerprinting, cross-service correlation, and identity checks. These 
approaches require persistent visibility into user behavior and create strong incentives for 
surveillance. PoH shifts the model from invasive monitoring to a privacy-preserving proof. PoH 
can be implemented private-by-design. Secure multi-party computation protects privacy when 
establishing uniqueness, having multiple issuers minimizes the risk for censorship and zero-
knowledge proofs and unlinkable nullifiers preserve anonymity when proving humanness to 
others. This way no cross-service profile can be established and surveillance can be prevented.
2.11.2. Concern: PoH requires a centralized database of people
This is the case for traditional identity systems. However, for a well designed PoH system, 
uniqueness can be verified using encryption techniques that avoid exposing biometric or identi-
fying data and distribute trust across multiple independent parties such that there is no need 
for a centralized database.
2.11.3. Concern: PoH is a centralizing force
PoH can be designed such that the opposite is the case. Without PoH, influence concentrates 
among actors who leverage bots, coordinated networks, or purchased accounts. This centralizes 
power in the hands of those with resources to manufacture participation. PoH inverts this 
dynamic by making participation human-bounded, which prevents authentic voices from being 
drowned out and empowers individuals. At the same time, for any PoH there will be an 
implementation and bootstrapping phase in which in almost all cases will lead to temporary 
centralization which needs to be iteratively eliminated over time. Initially, there is a small 
group of people that builds the first version and has decision-making authority. The class of 
PoH systems we are advocating for can be and need to be progressively protected against 
incompetence and malice of this initial group of people. The world decentralization whitepaper 
describes one potential implementation.2
2.11.4. Concern: PoH leads to a black market for credentials
When PoH becomes critical, malicious actors will be strongly motivated to amass credentials, 
which would undermine PoH's effectiveness. While complete prevention of PoH delegation to 
2https://whitepaper.world.org/advancing-decentralization

bad actors is likely impossible, several measures can significantly increase the difficulty and 
economic cost of such actions.
Key security and recovery mechanisms include:
• Strong Authentication: Using phone-based methods similar to FaceID, combined with 
regular reauthentication, can ensure that the credential remains under the control of its 
rightful owner.
• Recovery Mechanisms: Enable the legitimate owner to reclaim their PoH following 
theft or sale, reducing the long-term utility of illicit transfers.
• Geographic Association: Optionally disclosing the country of issuance of a PoH can 
help prevent arbitrage based on income disparities.
Furthermore, as long as each person can only acquire a single PoH, renting it out carries 
significant risk: if the malicious actor uses the PoH against the terms of use of applications the 
original owner risks being locked out of essential applications.
Ultimately, if PoH achieves the importance we anticipate, the delegation or misuse of another 
person's PoH may reasonably be made illegal, mirroring existing laws against the misuse of a 
passport.
2.12. World ID: Bootstrapping PoH
World is an effort at implementing PoH as described above, with the design goal to maximize 
individual empowerment.
This whitepaper evaluates multiple approaches to achieving a global PoH mechanism and 
concludes that biometrics — and specifically iris biometrics — best satisfy the core require -
ments of inclusivity, uniqueness, person-bound credentials, decentralization, and anonymity. 
To operationalize iris verification at global scale, TFH built the Orb, a custom, open-source 
imaging and processing device that prioritizes privacy (local processing and Personal Custody 
Packages), robust liveness and presentation-attack detection, and auditable security features. 
In addition to the Orb, Anonymized Multi-Party Computation (AMPC) enables uniqueness 
checks without exposing biometric data, while Semaphore and zero-knowledge proofs let holders 
present only the facts they consent to share. These design choices together make a privacy-
preserving, auditable pathway to a verified World ID. Iris biometrics offer orders-of-magnitude 
lower false-match rates than face recognition, and the Orb’s engineering and operational model 
are aimed at producing a reliable personbound credential that scales. The result is a practical 
technical foundation for systems and services that need to know “is this a unique human?”  
while preserving user anonymity and removing central points of trust.
2.12.1. Proactively Implementing PoH
Bureaucracies tend to address major problems only after significant damage has occurred, which 
helps focus on what matters most. However, a reactive approach to PoH is highly undesirable 
and lead to surveillance. This not only results in avoidable negative consequences but also 
increases the likelihood of a less considered and simpler implementation, which would likely 
impact efficacy, privacy and freedom of speech. By the time a crisis makes PoH seem necessary
—potentially involving extreme outcomes like meaningful increases in societal unrest or other 
threats to democracy like outcome-altering election interference—the resulting PoH would most 
likely be implemented in haste. A rush would likely lead to prioritizing speed and functionality 
above all else, compromising critical elements such as individual empowerment, privacy and 
resilience to adversarial actors, making the final system far less beneficial than a proactive 
solution in ways that cannot be addressed iteratively afterwards (local optimum).
The World project is a proactive effort to address these challenges. In order to bootstrap PoH 
ahead of time and avoid some of the negative consequences, World employed one particular 
approach to try to counteract the described dynamics: It used its token as an economic 

bootstrapping mechanism while PoH is new and adoption is nascent and provides an incentive 
to verify. Analogous mechanisms have been used historically to grow networks at a smaller 
scale: for example, in PayPal’s early years, the company invested in user incentives to rapidly 
expand user adoption and achieve network scale, which was critical to its transition from a 
niche startup to a global platform. The token further gives all network participants a native 
ownership share for their participation, because the overall system becomes more useful as more 
people are verified.3
2.12.2. Multiple Uniqueness Credentials
In practice, supporting multiple forms of uniqueness can be useful in the short term to accelerate 
adoption and improve coverage. Therefore, World ID supports not only PoH credentials through 
the Orb but also credentials through passports and face based verification.
However, when evaluated against the requirements for global PoH, these alternatives exhibit 
structural limitations. Cryptographically verifiable identity documents with embedded chips 
(e.g., NFC-enabled IDs) depend on inhomogeneous availability, heterogeneous security infra -
structure, and document issuance processes rather than the person themselves. Uniqueness 
degrades through issuance by multiple authorities (e.g. dual citizenship), re-issuance or replace-
ment, and robust recovery is incompatible with privacy without introducing avenues for serious 
government surveillance. In more extreme cases, not all governments might be trusted to not 
create fake IDs (to potentially disseminate disinformation in other countries or even their own).
Similarly, face-based verification on consumer devices provides limited assurance and does not 
scale to global uniqueness. Camera quality and sensor diversity limit entropy and therefore 
the ability to distinguish lookalikes. This makes it practically impossible to distinguish real 
people from high resolution displays showing deep fakes. Compute integrity is also insufficient 
to prevent attacks.
For these reasons, while multiple credential types should coexist as transitional or complemen-
tary mechanisms, purpose-built biometric hardware appears to be the most beneficial long term 
approach that satisfies the full set of requirements for robust and privacy-preserving PoH.
2.12.3. World ID Today
Most of the security and privacy measures outlined previously—such as the secure hardware 
device (the Orb), Secure Multi-Party Computation (SMPC), Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKPs), 
and face authentication—are already integrated into World ID. This is complemented by 
numerous other privacy-enhancing features and ongoing development to further strengthen the 
system, including World ID 4.0.
World ID is progressing towards global adoption. At the time of this writing, there are about 
40M people on World App (the first of ideally many World ID authenticator apps) and about 
18M people verified as human with an Orb. At the same time, current projections for advanced 
machine intelligence require accelerating adoption in order to enable the benefits of PoH when 
they are needed.
2.13. Other Resources
The World roadmap is a dynamic and evolving blueprint that is subject to change and refine -
ment through input and decisions from the World community. Whether you are a developer, a 
user, an enthusiast, or simply someone interested in the future of decentralized systems, please 
reach out through the appropriate channel:
• Join the community discussion on X or Discord.
3For more information on WLD, please see this.

• Contribute to open source repositories on GitHub.
• Visit the World developer documentation.
• Reach out directly to the World team for support questions.
• View live on-chain data on the Dune Dashboard.

3. Advancing Decentralization
How to decentralize the World Network and minimize central points of failure.
3.1. Introduction
World is a protocol, not a company. This makes decentralization an axiomatic end goal.
If World is to become critical, global-scale infrastructure, it must not—and cannot —be 
controlled by a single organization or small number of contributors. In that case, the political 
and economic pressures placed on any single entity would likely be too high: the network would 
either be corrupted or collapse entirely.
By contrast, decentralization of the World protocol so that it is sustained by a community with 
dozens, hundreds, or even more independent organizations that use and support the protocol, 
will enable the network to scale to billions of people while increasing utility and preventing fraud.
In the blockchain community, decentralization often refers to core infrastructure properties 
like transparency, verifiability, and permissionless access—conferring the network the ability to 
recover from local participant failures. Additionally, decentralization requires many independent 
participants to have a sustainable economic interest (e.g. a stake) in maintaining the infra -
structure. Those properties are all important for World to function as a true public good. They 
are also important for adoption and continuous improvement of the protocol by application 
developers building on the protocol. Without them, the network cannot scale and it cannot be 
sustainable—that means failing its promise of becoming a trusted, global utility.
Because World is a complex system with multiple technologies that operate together, World 
Foundation has defined a series of critical use cases and tests to evaluate the stage of decen -
tralization that has been achieved for those use cases.
This whitepaper explores avenues for decentralization of various components of World protocol, 
including software, hardware and governance.
3.2. Basic World Protocol Glossary
The Orb: The Orb is a verification device which takes pictures of a person, uses on-device 
analysis to determine that the person is a real, live human, and generates a privacy-preserving 
enrollment code that can be used to determine if they’ve previously enrolled—and therefore, 
whether they are unique. This enables the creation of a “Proof of Human,” perhaps the most 
important new property enabled by the World Protocol.
Relying Party: At its core, the World protocol allows applications to request a user-generated 
proof (such as Proof of Human, to confirm that they are a verified, unique human). The 
application requesting a proof is known as the “Relying Party.” The Relying Party is often an 
application on the user’s phone, a web application, or a smart contract.
World ID : World ID is a privacy-preserving digital ID. Discrete, unlinkable statements about 
the user can be generated with a secret value held only by the user—these are known as “Proofs”. 
Proof of Human, as an example, ensures that each human can only have a single “Verified 
World ID”. The World ID can also be used with other credentials to produce other proofs, such 
as Proof of Age, or Proof of Citizenship. An important property of the World ID is that proofs 
provided to two different Relying Parties cannot be linked together unless the user wants to 
do so.
Credential and Credential Issuer: World ID Proofs are generated using information from a 
credential. Every credential is produced and cryptographically signed by an issuer. For example, 

the World Foundation authorizes Orbs to produce the credential that is central to generating 
the Proof of Human, so the Orb credentials and Proof of Human are issued by the World 
Foundation.
Authenticator: The “World ID Authenticator” is software authorized by the user to generate 
World ID proofs. The authenticator may be a single purpose application, but it is more often 
provided as part of a larger application with other functionality. For example, the World App 
includes a World ID Authenticator while also bundling financial products and a mini-app 
ecosystem that extends functionality. Users may have multiple authenticators.
User Agent: Where the authenticator is bundled with other application functionality, it may 
be referred to as a User Agent. These User Agents may support a wide set of capabilities, 
as with the previously mentioned World App, or they may be an application with a specific 
purpose (for example, an application accessing a specific social media service, a gaming client, 
or an application to purchase concert tickets). User Agents may not necessarily run on a device 
that is controlled by the user – for example, “AI User Agents” are likely to run on infrastructure 
provided by an AI provider. As AI capabilities advance, we expect that humans may want to 
delegate the use of their World ID for certain purposes by providing the AI Agent with an 
Authenticator.
WLD / Worldcoin: A token governed by the World Foundation that will be used to pay for 
fees in the World Network such as the World ID Fees.
3.3. Tests to Evaluate Technical Decentralization
Progress in decentralizing the protocol can be measured with three major test cases:
1. Test 1 – Permissionless Market Launch: Any operator can introduce the protocol to 
users in a new market without any dependency on any one (other) party.
2. Test 2 – Protocol Use by Relying Party:  Any relying party can use the protocol 
without dependency on any one (other) party.
3. Test 3 – Enhancing the Protocol by Issuer:  Any issuer can enhance the protocol 
with new credentials and proofs (including uniqueness modalities) without dependency 
on any one (other) party.
To further quantify progress, we defined decentralization stages for each of these test cases.
3.3.1. Test 1: Permissionless Market Launch
Much of the global population lives in areas that World Foundation and its existing contrib -
utors, such as Tools for Humanity (TFH), cannot directly service due to isolation, regulatory 
complexity, or mistrust. To allow these people to use the protocol, other parties must be able 
to provide access without needing World Foundation’s support or permission.
The use case: An individual within a new market should be able to go through the verification 
process (install a World Network-enabled wallet application, verify at an Orb) and then provide 
proof of human (PoH) without receiving World Foundation’s permission or using any technology 
controlled by World Foundation.
• Current: World Foundation governs the development and operation of PoH verification 
devices (Orbs) and wallets. These wallets use World Foundation authorized or managed 
backend systems.
• Stage 1: World Foundation-managed operation of verification devices will transition 
to Independent, arms-length operations using TFH/World Foundation front/backend 
systems.
• Stage 2: Stage 1 is achieved, and independent operations can be conducted without 
direct reliance on World Foundation managed or operated backend systems.

• Stage 3: Stage 2 is achieved, and there are multiple World-enabled wallets that can 
request WLD airdrops from World Foundation.
• Stage 4: Both Orb and wallet are provided by multiple parties. Airdrops are managed 
via smart contracts that are immutable or under decentralized governance.
Achieving Stage 4 will require technical changes to the World protocol, operations and gover -
nance. Some of these changes are already underway.
3.3.2. Test 2: Protocol Use by a Relying Party
Many enterprises and large applications hesitate to adopt a protocol that requires third-party 
permission, especially when long-term business interests may not align.
The use case: Any application or service provider that would like to leverage World Network 
and proof of human as a relying party should be able to deploy all parts of the technology 
stack for user enrollment, credential issuance and management, and proof verification without 
permission from or support of World Foundation (or any other third party). People who have 
a verified proof of human—originally issued for one relying party—should also be able to use 
the credential with other relying parties, such as the WLD airdrop highlighted in Test 1.
• Current: To prevent phishing and namespace collisions, applications and Mini Apps 
require a developer account overseen by Tools for Humanity. Users must have World App 
installed and use a World Foundation-authorized Orb to verify and generate their Proof 
of Human.
• Stage 1: Using a decentralized mechanism, developers can release apps that can request 
proofs from World App without needing a developer account or reduced trust.
• Stage 2: Stage 1 is achieved, multiple User Agents with World ID capable authenticators 
are connected to the World Network, including ones that are not developed by TFH or 
World Foundation. So a relying party can request and/or generate proofs without use of 
any User Agent managed by World Foundation or TFH.
• Stage 3: Stage 2 is achieved, and a relying party can deploy their full use case from user 
enrollment to credential issuance, proof generation and verification by the relying party 
without any dependency on World Foundation-managed technology or infrastructure.
• Stage 4: Stage 3 is achieved, and World Foundation authorization or support are not 
required for interoperability. Relying parties can independently assess third-party World-
enabled applications and verification devices to determine whether they are trustworthy.
Achieving Stage 4 will require technical changes to the World Network protocol, operations and 
governance. Some of these changes are already underway.
3.3.3. Test 3: Credential integration with the protocol
Today’s digital identity infrastructure is fragmented and inefficient. Many discussions with 
potential relying parties (e.g., governments, identity companies, hardware manufacturers, etc.) 
are about enhancing the protocol to connect World Network to existing identity infrastructure 
and systems. World Network can provide a global, privacy-preserving way for users to manage 
and present credentials when using digital services online. Currently, only World Foundation 
and Tools for Humanity (via World App) can create a new credential that integrates with 
World ID.
The use case: Any credential provider can offer a new credential that can be integrated with 
World ID to be presented by the World ID user directly to relying parties or through privacy-
preserving zero-knowledge proof (ZKP) attestations. This requires no permission from World 
Foundation (or any other party), and relying parties are able to use these credentials to enhance 
their services.
This enables the existence of a rich ecosystem of potential third-party credentials and proofs 
that can enhance the protocol.

• Current: Multiple credentials (Orb, NFC-enabled identity document, and device unique-
ness) exist within World App.
• Stage 1: Credential formats are publicly documented. New credentials and ZKP attes -
tations can be added by third parties with permission of World Foundation.
• Stage 2: User-controlled API for managing 3rd party credentials/attestations in World 
App (and other authenticators).
• Stage 3:  Third-party unique credentials can be permissionlessly introduced using 
AMPC-based uniqueness services.
• Stage 4:  World ID fees  are deployed: relying parties pay credential issuers and the 
protocol to create a sustainable economic model for the protocol.
Achieving Stage 4 will require technical changes to the World Network protocol, operations and 
governance. Some of these changes are already underway.
3.4. Technical Roadmap for Decentralization
The following sections outline several different areas of World—User Agents (e.g., World App), 
verification hardware (e.g., Orbs), hardware operations, protocol, and governance—and how 
they can be improved through decentralization. The optimal mechanisms to increase decentral-
ization may evolve over time, and suggestions for improvements are welcome.
3.5. User Agent
World App was the first application designed to work with the World Network, and it consists 
of three primary components:
• An authenticator that manages the user’s identity on the network and provides proofs to 
relying parties.
• A self-custody wallet that provides access to the financial functionality within World App.
• A miniapp platform that allows Third-Party applications to be deployed within the 
World App.
World App was launched as the first user agent to support World Network, enabling people to 
verify their World ID at an Orb and interact with relying parties. World ID is already available 
through the IDkit and Minikit (see developer portal), so any developer who wants to use Sybil 
protection in their application can connect to World Network via World App.
While currently users must first download World App to interact with the World Network, 
World Foundation is encouraging the development of other applications that connect to World 
Network. These applications are called User Agents, and, like World App, they connect to the 
network as an authenticator. World Network is designed so that any developer will be able to 
build their own user agent without requiring permission from World Foundation or any other 
contributor to the World project.
Research is currently underway to develop Authenticator SDKs that will make it easy for any 
application to connect directly to World Network while still serving the high level of privacy 
and security required by relying parties. This gives the user more choice of which user agent 
to use.
3.5.1. Enabling Decentralized Trust
There should be multiple user agents for people to choose from at the time of verification at an 
Orb, or when using World ID to provide a proof to a relying party. To enable a diverse range 
of trustworthy user agents, Tools for Humanity is currently working to improve the following 
components:

3.5.1.1. Integrity Services
Relying parties must be able to evaluate the authenticator environment that provides World 
ID proofs to determine whether they can trust the integrity of the provided proof. The World 
ID zero-knowledge proof itself is independent of the authenticator, however, additional security 
features (e.g., World ID Face Auth) require verifying the integrity of the User Agent and its 
authenticator. This is the result of privacy requirements which encourage local computation on 
the user’s phone. While local computation could potentially be secured through zero-knowledge 
proofs and the Orb’s image is signed, additional credential sources (including objects like a 
second input image taken through the user phone’s camera) may not maintain a similar level 
of data integrity. Until manufacturers begin attaching hardware attestations to those images, 
comparison to an image from the phone’s camera fully relies on trusting the integrity of the 
phone’s hardware and software. Thankfully, OS-level attestations already exist on an app level 
(e.g., Apple App Attest or Google Play Integrity) and can be used as a lower level integrity 
assurance signal. The verification of those can be handled by services that sign off on individual 
requests and enhance trust.
3.5.1.2. World ID Authenticator Kit (previously referred to as Wallet Kit)
World App already contains all the logic for handling an Orb verification and using World 
ID to generate and submit proofs (such as when receiving WLD grants). This process can be 
made simpler and quicker for new teams building their own applications. Authenticator Kit will 
handle the connection with the Orb and establish the privileged execution environment on the 
phone through the integrity services. Importantly, it should also contain a mobile-optimized 
proof-generation library.
3.6. Verification Devices
In the context of World, specialized verification devices (Orbs) enable the verification of human-
ness and the issuance of World IDs. There are several ways to make Orbs more transparent, 
verifiable and accessible. Increasing transparency and verifiability of the Orb’s functionality 
can help align the incentives of manufacturers not to be malicious. Furthermore, letting anyone 
develop alternative Orbs democratizes the solution space and accelerates decentralization.
The following sections walk through different milestones that can contribute to the robustness 
of Orb infrastructure.
3.6.1. Core Orb Engineering open source
To allow Orb functionality to be verifiable by the public and enable anyone to build their own 
Orb, the firmware and hardware have been made open source.
3.6.1.1. Hardware Source-Available
Today, hardware components that aren’t security critical (e.g., tamper detection and security 
board) have been made publicly available. Eventually, as much as possible  should be made 
publicly available, but it is unclear whether publishing all Orb components is desirable given the 
security considerations described in the next section. There should be a continuous evaluation 
of which sensitive components can be made open source.
3.6.1.2. Core Firmware Components Are Open Source
Publishing core firmware components makes the functionality of the Orb more transparent and 
is a requirement to achieve verifiable Orb provenance and firmware. Therefore, a large part of 
the firmware of the Orb has been open-sourced.

Making these core components open source enables others to understand the functionality of the 
Orb in more detail and build alternative Orb firmware implementations. Potential vulnerabilities 
can be submitted through a public bounty program.
Given no hardware device can be perfectly secured, other sensitive components (like spoof-
prevention algorithms and fraud models) that may pose a direct integrity or security risk to 
the ecosystem if exposed will likely not be made open source. Importantly, World doesn’t need 
to rely on perfect hardware security when complemented with mechanisms like auditing of Orb 
operations. To reduce trust requirements on non-open-source parts of the code, the open-source 
code defines software “sandboxes” for some closed-source components. For example, consider a 
closed-source fraud-detection module that ingests biometric data. The open-source code that 
interfaces with this module can provide strong evidence that the closed-source code cannot 
save/upload any biometric data.
3.6.2. Enabling Decentralized Trust
In a decentralized World Network, relying parties have access to the information they need in 
order to assess the trustworthiness of any credentials or proofs they verify. Orbs are one of 
the most important roots of trust for credentials in the network and must meet exceptional 
standards for trustworthiness. To ensure the integrity of the network and reduce trust in provi-
sioning, Orbs should fulfill certain requirements (see Secure Provisioning Standard). However, 
no provably secure hardware exists, and certain points of trust remain as described in Orb 
Provenance Verification. Importantly, World Network doesn’t rely on perfectly secure hardware, 
and audit logging and in-person auditing of Orb locations can help decrease incentives for 
malicious actors.
The following technologies are currently being improved to help reduce trust assumptions; they 
provide relying parties and the broader community with the ability to evaluate the trustwor -
thiness of any verification device.
3.6.2.1. On-chain Orb Registry
The “Orb Registry” refers to the set of active Orbs currently endorsed by World Foundation. 
If an entity’s process can be sufficiently trusted (e.g., by implementing a secure provisioning 
standard and conducting regular audits), the insertion of public keys from that entity in the 
Orb registry could be delegated to that entity. To limit the harm caused by a malicious Orb, 
World IDs registered with different Orb manufacturers (and ideally with different Orbs) should 
be distinguishable from each other. This makes it possible for the ecosystem to respond to 
(inevitable) attacks by removing individual Orb manufacturers, and perhaps even individual 
Orbs, from the whitelist on demand. Optionally, World IDs associated with fraudulent Orbs 
could be revoked. This information can be private and only stored on the World ID holder's 
device as long as it is provable on demand. If anyone were mistakenly affected by such action, 
they could re-verify through an active Orb. As a last resort, disagreement in the set of trusted 
provisioning entities could be resolved by forking the protocol and adding or removing provi -
sioning entities.
3.6.2.2. Secure Provisioning Standard
“Secure provisioning” refers to the process of setting up the cryptographic keys of an Orb. One 
part of such a standard could, for example, specify that only certain approved secure element 
models can be used and require proofs of authenticity from each secure element (via die-unique 
certificates signed by the secure element vendor) to be reported alongside the public keys. Orbs 
generated by this process can then be considered securely provisioned.
Today, a secure provisioning process is in place that involves generating private keys on a secure 
element as well as burning secrets generated on an air-gapped machine connected to a hardware 
security module into private fuses (only accessible by TrustZone applets). These secrets are 
derived using a NIST-SP-800-108 KDF algorithm into two keys transmitted to the backend used 

for future device attestation, and then are immediately destroyed. The original key material 
only exists in the restricted fuse banks on the NVIDIA Jetson and within the secure element. 
Continual auditing of the process can help maintain a high security bar.
3.6.2.3. Auditing of Orb Operations
Auditing operations can help detect malicious operators and malicious Orbs, thereby disincen-
tivizing malicious behavior. No entity in World Network should have to be trusted. Therefore, 
all operations need to be audited in a distributed manner.
One primary concern is someone being able to inject fake iris codes. In this case, “fraudulent” 
means the entity has a way to spoof requests to the uniqueness service to make them seem as 
if they came from a legitimate Orb. Security measures on the Orb should make such an attack 
very difficult. However, the risks associated with malicious individuals involved in provisioning 
and/or flaws in digital security can’t be entirely eliminated.
The auditing of Orb operations by incentivized users and dedicated auditing organizations, 
when combined with software- and hardware-security measures, can make generating fake IDs 
very hard. Today, operations are already audited by third-party organizations. To increase the 
robustness of this process, a list of all Orbs, their locations and operational information about 
the Orbs could be made public.
3.6.2.4. Incentivized Re-Verification
Similar to auditing of Orb operations, verified users can be incentivized to re-verify at a 
different Orb. For any attacker who compromised an Orb or spoofed verifications, such a second 
verification at a different Orb would be very difficult to also spoof. Therefore, statistically, the 
fraction of incentivized users that end up verifying a second time with a different Orb would 
be lower for a compromised Orb, allowing anomalies to be detected.
3.6.3. Orb Security Transparency
Below are steps toward making the security of the Orb more transparent:
3.6.3.1. Publish Audits
World Foundation regularly conducts and publishes hardware and firmware audits like this 
one to help ensure that the systems being built are as secure as possible, and to increase 
transparency into those systems. Such audits entail both security and privacy considerations.
3.6.3.2. Public Bug Bounty Program
A bounty program can raise the security bar by finding vulnerabilities early. In collaboration 
with Tools For Humanity and HackerOne, World launched a public bug bounty program  in 
February, 2024. The program is being continuously extended with additional endpoints, source 
code and new categories of attacks.
3.6.3.3. Verifiable Orb Provenance and Firmware
While there is significant research involved, ideally, the public would be allowed to verify 
properties of an active Orb, including that it is:
• not counterfeit and is from an Orb vendor that meets manufacturing and security 
standards
• configured to only boot signed firmware
• running a specific version of the firmware

These verifications can help mitigate important privacy concerns related to biometrics. The 
public should not need to blindly trust an Orb vendor to faithfully/correctly implement privacy-
preserving firmware.
Eventually, there may be a path to allow for firmware that hasn’t been approved by World 
Foundation governance, though it is unclear whether this would be desirable given the potential 
downsides. This would require appropriate incentive and audit mechanisms to disincentivize 
malicious behavior, which could turn out to be unviable in practice.
3.6.3.4. Orb Provenance Verification via User Agent
A first step towards verifying an Orb as non-counterfeit could be implemented through prove-
nance verification via the user agent. Such a mechanism could help verify that an Orb is from 
a vendor that has been approved by World governance and therefore is running approved 
firmware. Such a feature can be integrated into other protocol-compatible apps.
One possible path for such a verification could be to ask the Orb to sign a challenge that has 
been generated by the App. Orbs contain two mechanisms for cryptographically attesting they 
are in the Orb registry: private keys in the secure element and private keys derived from fuses 
on the NVIDIA Jetson. Verifying signatures from both sources provides strong evidence that an 
Orb was manufactured by a vendor that has been approved and was not subsequently tampered 
with. Verification of the NVIDIA Jetson fuse state can provide strong evidence that Orbs can 
only boot firmware that has been signed. The user agent could also request an Orb’s firmware 
version from the Trusted Execution Environment’s (TEE) secure storage. As part of a normal 
boot, the root hash for dm-verity can be delivered to the bootloader by the TEE, ensuring 
that only code authorized by the TEE is able to boot. Inside of secure storage, these hashes 
would be associated with version numbers, allowing an entity (e.g., the World App) to request 
attestation of the current hashes and version numbers existing in the secure storage.
This mechanism assumes that an Orb’s private key only exists in its secure element (i.e., there 
are no other copies), a constraint which should be specified by the secure provisioning standard. 
Private keys are generated on the secure element directly and never leave, and a series of 
transparent certificate attestations during generation and export can prove that a particular 
key originated from a legitimate secure element. Therefore, physically attesting an Orb has 
a private key provides strong evidence that the same private key is not in the control of an 
attacker. Extracting private keys from the Orb’s secure element is assumed to be extremely 
difficult.
It is important to note that it is impossible to fully eliminate attack vectors of Orb hardware 
vendors/manufacturers or upstream vendors. The following attack vectors remain:
• The Orb vendor could bypass parts of the secure provisioning process (due to malice 
or incompetence), invalidating the guarantees of the proposed verifications. Therefore, 
Orb manufacturers should be audited to ensure the secure provisioning standard is 
maintained, and World Foundation is sponsoring research on other ways to harden the 
software supply chain..
• NVIDIA firmware could have security vulnerabilities or backdoors, which could threaten 
the Jetson fuse attestation.
• The secure element vendor could be compromised/incompetent/malicious, which would 
threaten the integrity of the corresponding attestation.
• The World Foundation could sign malicious firmware. Hardware support for firmware 
verification helps enable procedures to verify the actual firmware running on an Orb.
Therefore, there should be mechanisms to mitigate the risk of fraudulent manufacturers or 
compromised Orbs. In-person auditing of Orb locations and incentivized re-verification can 
make exploiting backdoors significantly harder and help detect malicious verification of World 
IDs in retrospect.

3.6.3.5. Reproducible Builds
Without reproducible builds, the public is required to trust that compiled firmware wasn’t 
maliciously modified during/after the build. Reproducible builds provide a mechanism to verify 
that Orb firmware was compiled from a specific state of the public repositories. To verify the 
integrity of the firmware, third parties should be able to build it from source on their own 
infrastructure. Full reproducibility means the resulting artifacts should be identical to those 
deployed to Orbs, and the signature from the signed firmware should be valid for the self-built 
firmware. The initial priority should be to make privacy-sensitive components of the firmware 
open source and reproducibly built.
However, there are some limitations. The firmware should (at least initially) include closed-
source components, which are opaque parts of the system. Some of these are from Tools for 
Humanity (e.g., spoof-detection models) and some are from vendors (e.g., NVIDIA firmware 
components). Additionally, some components may be hard to make reproducible. These can be 
built separately and pulled in as compiled components to the main build.
3.6.3.6. Hardware Support for Firmware Verification
The most transparent way to verify firmware is by having read access to the storage of the 
main computing unit. The new generation Orb has a removable SD card that is easily accessible 
from the outside, and no persistent storage. Public auditors can use this mechanism to verify 
the integrity of a particular Orb’s firmware. The integrity verification of the dumped memory 
could optionally reuse the Orb’s internal integrity verification mechanism (dm-verity). This can 
provide stronger guarantees than Orb provenance verification via user agent, as there are fewer 
attack surfaces for spoofing direct physical access relative to remote attestation schemes.
While this mechanism provides strong guarantees for the firmware state, it is still possible to 
spoof the auditor at the hardware level. For example, there could be a second hidden flash 
chip that the Orb is actually booting from. This risk could be mitigated by additional audits 
that inspect the hardware directly on a random subset of devices. Further, in-person audits of 
Orb locations can make attacks significantly easier to detect and can create disincentives for 
malicious behavior.
3.6.4. Operations
Operations, in the context of World, refers to procedures in the “analog world” that allow people 
to get their World ID verified. The primary participants are Orb operators (i.e., independent 
entrepreneurs and their organizations around the world) who provide Orbs in physical locations 
for people to verify. Currently, all Orb operators have a commercial relationship with World 
Foundation. In the future, we expect that Orb operators will be able to acquire, deploy and 
manage operations without permission from World Foundation or any other entity. Certain 
infrastructure primitives can help reduce trust assumptions and align the incentives of all 
participants.
3.6.4.1. Community Operators
In 2025, Tools for Humanity (TFH) expects to provide the general public with the ability 
to become an Orb operator. They should be able to acquire an Orb and use it as part of a 
standalone operation to extend the protocol (as described in Test 1) or to develop a new use 
case (as described in Test 2). These new operators will complement the existing World Spaces 
and flagship operations that are overseen by TFH and other partners of World Foundation.
3.7. Protocol
The protocol contains off- and on-chain components that are responsible for handling, for 
example, verification or authentication requests from users. Since privacy is central to World 

ID, it is especially important to not sacrifice it in favor of accelerated increases in transparency, 
verifiability and resilience. One example of this is the uniqueness service, which still requires 
more research before it can be made more permissionless.
The following sections describe possible improvements to further increase transparency, verifi-
ability and robustness of the protocol:
3.7.1. Protocol Open-Source
All of the components of the protocol are already open source (see the open source tree).
3.7.2. Protocol Security Transparent
Over the course of several months beginning in April 2023 prior to World’s public launch, audit 
firms Nethermind and Least Authority conducted two separate security assessments on the off-
chain and on-chain components of World Network, including the following parts of the protocol:
• Correctness of the implementation, including cryptographic constructions and primitives 
and appropriate use of smart contract constructs
• Common and case-specific implementation errors
• Adversarial actions and other attacks on the code
• Secure key storage and proper management of encryption and signing keys
• Exposure of any critical information during user interactions
• Resistance to DDoS (distributed denial of service) and similar attacks
• Vulnerabilities in the code leading to adversarial actions and other attacks
• Protection against malicious attacks and other methods of exploitation
• Performance problems or other potential impacts on performance
• Data privacy, data leaking and information integrity
• Inappropriate permissions, privilege escalation and excess authority
Of the issues detected by Nethermind, which performed a comprehensive audit of World’s smart 
contracts, 92.6% were identified as fixed after the re-audit stage, while 3.7% were mitigated and 
3.7% were acknowledged.
Details of these audits can be found in the Nethermind and Least Authority reports.
Since its launch, the World Protocol has continually evolved, with audits performed whenever 
sensitive or complex updates are introduced. For example, the uniqueness service, now based 
on an SMPC protocol, has undergone multiple audits from Least Authority which can be found 
here, here, and here.
3.7.3. Publicly Available Merkle Tree
The set of World ID public keys is already publicly available and committed to by the sequencer 
on Ethereum. The public keys are available as calldata, and the current state of the Merkle 
tree is committed as a Merkle root. Its validity is enforced through a ZK validity proof of batch 
insertions of public keys. While this ensures that the committed root actually corresponds to 
a Merkle tree, it’s not yet ensured in the validity proof that the public keys actually originate 
from an Orb. Even though the leaves are publicly available, it’s practically infeasible for the 
client to download all of this data and reconstruct the tree to be able to compute a Merkle 
inclusion proof. The tree availability service serves those Merkle inclusion proofs to clients. 
Clients can check the correctness of the Merkle proof against the on-chain root. However, this 
request can leak additional metadata about the client (e.g., IP address). This can be addressed 
by routing those requests through mixnets or through private information retrieval.

3.7.4. Permissionless Merkle Tree
As mentioned above, the validity proof of the Merkle tree needs to be enriched by a signature 
check of the public key. Once this check is added, trust in the identity sequencer is no longer 
required. Similar to the uniqueness service, this sequencer also needs to actually implement 
coordination to rotate between multiple sequencers so there is no possibility of censorship.
3.7.5. World ID Fees
The World Foundation is extending the World ID protocol to introduce World ID fees, payable 
in WLD. Usage will remain free for end users while applications will be charged for using World 
ID services. Each credential issuer will be able to set and retain their own credential fee, while 
a separate protocol fee will flow back to the protocol itself. More details were provided in a blog 
post on April 30, 2025 and technical specifications are expected to be released in 2025.
3.7.6. Decentralized Trust: Attestation and Auditability
Tools for Humanity and World Foundation are currently working to provide an update to the 
protocol that incorporates hardware and software security attributes (e.g., “attestations”) that 
allow for a decentralized trust model for authenticators, verification devices (Orbs), uniqueness 
services and relying parties. This will be released as open source and as a public standard that 
can be used by any third party to build or deploy infrastructure on the network.
3.7.7. Decentralization of Uniqueness Service
Increasing the resilience of the uniqueness service is challenging because a permissionless 
operation of the service would require iris codes to be public. A permissioned set of nodes that 
run the computation and agree on the result through consensus—or run the comparison on a 
reduced version of the iris codes so that no node has the full code—improves the verifiability 
of the system. As of 2024, such a system (known as AMPC) has been introduced.
3.7.7.1. AMPC
AMPC, or anonymized multi-party computation, is a quantum secure multi-party computation 
(SMPC) setup that anonymizes and securely protects the iris codes of Orb-verified World ID 
holders. It leverages NVIDIA H100 GPUs as the main compute platform to enable up to 50 
million pairwise uniqueness comparisons per second.
AMPC incorporates the latest advances in cryptographic multiparty protocols and further 
improves on state-of-the-art techniques. This ensures that no iris codes ever leave the user's 
device. Instead, iris data is cryptographically processed directly on the Orb and rendered 
anonymous. Only anonymous data, which are secret shared and end-to-end encrypted, are 
transmitted separately to each compute node of the AMPC setup.
AMPC improves the way similarity comparisons are handled. In the previous version, pairwise 
Hamming distances were used in plaintext to determine the outcome of the enrollment process. 
In AMPC, only a binary result is revealed: whether the user is a match or not. This approach 
improves privacy even further.
In addition, iris masks, which are used to filter out noise and highlight relevant features of 
the iris for the uniqueness check, are now also secret shared, ensuring that they never exist 
in plaintext at any stage. This eliminates another piece of information and further enhances 
privacy protections for users. The architecture allows users' biometrics to remain secure, private 
and anonymous throughout the entire process.
Leveraging high-end hardware for superior performance

To achieve the high throughput required for global-scale biometric verification, AMPC leverages 
GPUs as the main compute platform. The AMPC protocol has been fully implemented using 
NVIDIA CUDA, enabling approximately 50 million pairwise comparisons per second overall.
Each compute node consists of an AWS p5.48xlarge instance with eight NVIDIA H100 GPUs. 
These instances provide around 3200 Gbps of bandwidth through Remote Direct Memory Access 
(RDMA) and 20 exaflops of compute performance.
Not only the uniqueness check itself, but also the transition from SMPC to AMPC was designed 
with the highest security and privacy in mind. This migration process, which involves changes 
in how the underlying cryptographic secret sharing works, is fully SMPC-based itself, meaning 
that no biometric data is ever processed or exposed during the upgrade. This ensures that user 
privacy is maintained throughout the entire transition process.
A decentralized and transparent approach
AMPC marks an important step toward decentralization and transparency.
World Foundation has partnered with Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg in 
Germany, UC Berkeley Center for Responsible Decentralized Intelligence (RDI) in the U.S, and 
Nethermind, a trusted and reputable blockchain and research engineering company to operate 
a Multiparty Computation Setup, in which the anonymized data will be stored.
Figure  17:  AMPC universities
Additionally, the Blockchain Center of the University of Zurich in Switzerland and the Korea 
Advanced Institute of Science & Technology (KAIST) have committed to assisting in advancing 
the secure storage of the anonymized data. This shift will help create a global and decentralized 
system, ensuring that no entity has access to biometric data.
To further enhance community oversight, a governance board has been established, which will 
include independent external domain experts. This board will coordinate and supervise updates, 
ensure accountability, and govern the onboarding of third parties to operate compute nodes in 
the AMPC setup.
Scaling for the future
The future roadmap for AMPC includes numerous improvements aimed at scaling the system 
for future growth. These also ultimately serve to reduce the compute requirements, making it 
easier for new third parties to join the network. Additionally, trusted execution environments 
are in development to minimize potential room for manipulation of those trusted AMPC parties.
Like its predecessor, AMPC is open source . Transparency is essential for building trust in 
privacy-preserving technologies. Anyone is invited to review, contribute and build upon the 
codebase.
Unprecedented privacy in biometric systems
AMPC is not only one of the largest SMPC-based systems in production but also breaks new 
ground by leveraging high-end GPUs to significantly increase performance. These technologies 
set a new standard for privacy, security and scalability—all while advancing the state of 
biometric verification.
For a detailed description of the techniques used in AMPC, please refer to the paper, Large-
Scale MPC: Scaling Private Iris Code Uniqueness Checks to Millions of Users.

3.8. Governance
A global community of developers, individuals, economists and technologists conceived and 
made early contributions to World Network. The original idea started with co-founders Sam 
Altman, Alex Blania and Max Novendstern, who founded Tools for Humanity and assembled 
a team to begin developing the technology to support World.
Tools for Humanity is a technology company building for humans in the age of AI. . It is a 
Delaware (U.S.) corporation headquartered in San Francisco, California, with a wholly-owned 
subsidiary, Tools for Humanity GmbH, based in Germany. Tools for Humanity supported 
World’s multi-year beta testing phase, during which it developed the Orb and the World App.
Tools for Humanity and other early contributors are committed to providing every person on 
the planet access to the global economy, regardless of country or background.
Today, the governance of World is overseen by World Foundation, an independent entity that 
is committed to transitioning World governance to all of humanity. It is important that this 
happens in a deliberate way. Therefore, governance (e.g., voting) must be well-studied and 
tested before this transition.
The following sections describe different improvements that are either already occurring or can 
contribute to this objective:
3.8.1. World Foundation Setup
On October 31st, 2022, World Foundation was established as the non-profit steward of World, 
supporting and growing the ecosystem as it becomes self-sufficient. The Foundation’s main 
objective is to scale an inclusive identity and financial network as a public utility and to expand 
the governance thereof. This infrastructure has the potential to empower everyone to participate 
in the global economy in the age of AI.
The Foundation is an exempted limited guarantee foundation company, which is a type of non-
profit incorporated in the Cayman Islands. It has a wholly owned business company subsidiary in 
the British Virgin Islands called World Assets Limited. This is “one of the most often used, and 
internationally recognized structures” for decentralized blockchain projects.4 World Foundation 
is “memberless”; it has no owners or shareholders.
This entity setup was a good fit for World due to the Foundation’s separate personhood, limited 
liability, tax efficiency, support for compliance with virtual asset regulations and suitability for 
long-term community governance. That last point is especially important. Cayman foundation 
companies can be structured to be “memberless” (that is, have no owners or shareholders) and 
instead to take instructions from token holders and/or World ID holders. They can therefore 
gradually steer matters such as running a grant program, open sourcing intellectual property 
(IP), entering into service agreements and managing a treasury. In the case of World, the shared 
governance model is all the more critical so that, in the long term, decisions can reside with 
the community.
At the same time, the Foundation can aid the community’s governance by safeguarding protocol 
IP. In most legal systems today, a traditional legal entity is needed to protect IP such as 
trademarks, open-source copyrights and domains. Tools for Humanity has already transferred 
core protocol IP to the Foundation, including smart contracts, the World ID SDK, patents 
for the Orb design and iris recognition technology, brand assets, domains and social media 
accounts. And the Foundation has open-sourced several core tech repositories  and made the 
Orb’s hardware available under its Responsible Use License.
4To learn more about this arrangement, check out this Guide to the Cayman Islands Foundation Company  from the 
Foundation’s outside counsel at the law firm Ogier.

3.8.2. Transfer of Control and Ownership to the Foundation
In order to facilitate future governance models, several assets and key components have been 
transitioned to World Foundation:
• Treasury: World Foundation (and/or its affiliate entities) manages the treasury of tokens 
once they are unlocked. This includes World grants, operator rewards, and other contrib-
utor grants.
• Orb IP: Tools for Humanity has transferred the Orb IP to World Foundation. The Orb 
hardware and software will be made publicly available under a restricted use license, 
prohibiting the misuse of the technology. This allows the Foundation to onboard other 
organizations building Orbs or similar devices.
• Ability to Whitelist Orb Provisioning Entities: The Foundation manages the permissions 
for adding Orbs to the network, balancing hardware distribution, security and growth.
In order to grow the network and ultimately enable all of humanity to participate in the 
governance of World, the issuance of World ID and allocation of the WLD token (in certain 
countries) is ongoing.
3.8.3. Support Future Development
To encourage individuals and organizations to contribute to World Network through research, 
the development and production of Orbs or auditing of the system, World Foundation is setting 
up a grants program. Further, the World Improvement Proposals process is currently being 
created and will be open for proposals soon.
Separately, the Foundation intends to work on common standards and ecosystem-wide pro -
posals. For example, today, Orbs are developed and produced by Tools for Humanity. Orb 
operations are managed by several organizations around the world. With support from Tools for 
Humanity, the Foundation will work on standards and incentives for organizations to develop, 
produce and operate Orbs such that production of Orbs and their operation can be further 
distributed. More details can be found in the Orb whitepaper.
3.8.4. Initial Community
World maintains a dynamic and evolving blueprint that is subject to change and refinement 
through input and decisions from the World community.
To enhance transparency and facilitate community involvement, regular community calls should 
be established with the aim of providing a platform for open dialogue and updates on World’s 
progress. Additionally, a dedicated forum similar to ethresearch should be set up to further 
foster meaningful discourse and engagement around World. This forum can serve as a hub for 
ideas, suggestions and discussions among community members and the project team. Lastly, 
the Foundation has already hosted several developer meetups and strives to create more 
opportunities for developers to collaborate, innovate and contribute to World.
3.8.5. Decisions by Community
Increasing the resilience of the governance of World Network is both imperative and unprece -
dented, given the foundational nature of proof-of-personhood infrastructure and the ambition 
to scale it to billions of people. Building a community-based governance system for World 
represents perhaps the most formidable challenge of the entire project, and this process is still 
in its earliest stages.
The Foundation should ultimately have a limited role in the protocol’s governance. To this end, 
the Foundation’s founding documents have provisions for community-driven governance. These 
provisions make it possible, through a prescribed process, for the community to make recom -

mendations to the Foundation’s board of directors. For further details, see the Foundation’s 
Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association.
World ID provides unique infrastructure for distributed governance and presents the oppor -
tunity to harness input from a large and diverse set of individuals for community-driven 
governance. The reach of World ID is unprecedented. As a proof-of-personhood protocol, 
World ID naturally supports “one-person-one-vote” voting, in contrast to token-based voting 
commonly used by other blockchain projects. Notably, this adds more democratic options to 
the design space of voting mechanisms for World. However, the exact structure of delegating 
decisions to the community needs careful iteration and consultation with experts. Further, 
many governance decisions notoriously lack engagement from participants. Therefore, it will be 
important to encourage a large set of people to participate and explore the decisions. In the 
future, the user agent should serve as an entry point for using World as well as the governance 
of it. Additionally, multi-stakeholder governance models akin to ICANN should be explored.
3.8.5.1. Full Handover to Community
World Foundation is committed to continuously transitioning governance toward a model 
that sustainably enables World to benefit all humanity. This is an unprecedented endeavor in 
scale and complexity for a decentralized system, which will require a methodical and gradual 
approach. Key aspects like voting mechanisms should be thoroughly researched, validated 
with experts and tested before meaningful control is transferred. Transparency, inclusivity and 
neutrality are essential. However, these attributes contribute to intricate governance structures 
like today’s democracies, which can lead to often slow and expensive decision-making. While 
this deliberateness is beneficial for making long-term strategic decisions, such as amending a 
constitution, it can hinder the ability to quickly adapt to new challenges during the initial 
growth phases. Hence, prematurely adopting a governance model that fully transitions gover -
nance to the community without a well-vetted plan is itself a failure mode to be avoided.
The Foundation seeks input from contributors, the community and experts in the field as it 
increases the robustness of the governance of World Network
3.9. Other Resources
The World roadmap is a dynamic and evolving blueprint that is subject to change and refine -
ment through input and decisions from the World community. Whether you are a developer, a 
user, an enthusiast or simply someone interested in the future of decentralized systems, please 
reach out through the appropriate channel:
• Join the community discussion on X or Discord.
• Contribute to open-source repositories on GitHub.
• Visit the World ID Developer Docs and Portal.
• View live on-chain data on the Dune Dashboard.
• View the Decentralization and Open Source Roadmap.

4. Designing for Scale
How WLD powers governance, identity and financial access for every verified human.
4.1. Mission: Building a global identity and financial network
The mission of World is to build the world’s largest identity and financial network as a public 
utility, giving ownership to everyone. The project’s goals regarding the Worldcoin token, WLD, 
are as follows:
1. The majority of WLD tokens will be claimed by individuals simply for being verified 
unique humans.
2. The majority of humans alive today will claim WLD tokens, which may result in WLD 
becoming the most widely distributed digital currency.
3. The WLD token, alongside World ID, will be used for protocol governance.
4. The WLD token will form the basis of the largest anonymous identity and financial 
network.
4.2. Introducing WLD
WLD is designed as a cryptocurrency with governance properties, with the goal of eventually 
empowering users by giving them a say over the future of the protocol. Beyond conventional 
“one-token-one-vote” governance mechanisms, the introduction of World ID paves the way for 
“one-person-one-vote” mechanisms. These two mechanisms can be combined in many ways to 
enable new ways of governance. While World Foundation currently acts as the steward of the 
protocol, it plans to solicit proposals and interface with community-governance projects on how 
World ID and the WLD token should interact in World’s future governance model.
The community of users may determine the token’s utility for governance, but a few other use 
cases could emerge. For example, users may decide to use WLD within the World Network 
ecosystem to access features within World App or another wallet app, such as tipping, buying 
and selling goods, or signaling their support for causes or initiatives.
World Foundation is currently governing the project and is working toward progressively decen-
tralizing governance and the ecosystem. The goal of decentralization will be aided by World 
Foundation’s unique approach of giving the majority of the WLD token supply to participants 
of World Network—simply for being humans.

4.2.1. The WLD Token
Launch Date July 24, 2023
Network Information Worldcoin (WLD) is an ERC-20 token on 
Ethereum Mainnet.** **** Individuals claim-
ing user tokens will receive bridged WLD to-
kens on World Chain Mainnet, an OP Stack 
layer-2 network on top of Ethereum.** There-
fore, most WLD token transactions will likely take 
place on World Chain. If needed, the token can be 
bridged back to Ethereum through the OP Stack 
Superbridge.
Address: Ethereum 0x163f8C2467924be0ae7B5347228CABF260318753
Address: World Chain** **(main venue for 
access and use)
0x2cFc85d8E48F8EAB294be644d9E25C3030863003
Address: Optimism** ** 0xdC6fF44d5d932Cbd77B52E5612Ba0529DC6226F1 
Between July 24, 2023, and October 17, 2024, Opti-
mism was the main venue for access and use of 
WLD. While WLD remains available on Optimism, 
the main venue for access and use is now World 
Chain.
Upgradability None. No control, except inflation starting 15 years 
after token launch (see Inflation below).
Token allocation entity World Assets, Ltd., based in the British Virgin Is-
lands. World Foundation is its sole member and di-
rector.
Initial supply cap 10B WLD tokens (also see Inflation below)
Inflation Any inflation of the WLD supply beyond the initial 
10B token amount can only start, at the earliest, 15 
years after launch (specifically, on July 24, 2038, 
4am UTC). The rate of inflation is to be deter-
mined by protocol governance. The allocation of 
any newly-minted tokens is to also be decided by 
governance. The inflation cap, enforced by the 
WLD token smart contract, is 1.5% annually. The 
default inflation rate = 0%.
4.2.2. Availability
Worldcoin tokens are not available to people or companies who are residents of, or are located, 
incorporated or have a registered agent in, the State of New York or certain other restricted 
territories. More details can be found in the Terms of Use, including additional restrictions on 
eligibility.
4.2.3. Safety reminder
Watch out for fake apps claiming to be associated with World, and platforms or third parties 
that may try to sell or provide you with fake WLD tokens! Ensure that whenever you are 
transacting in WLD that it has the correct token address listed above. If the WLD have been 
“bridged” to another chain that is not Ethereum, World Chain, or Optimism, make sure this 
bridged version is secure and can always be redeemed or bridged back for WLD on Ethereum, 
World Chain, or Optimism. World Foundation and its affiliates are not responsible for the 
creation, operation, or security of any bridges deployed by third parties, nor any WLD that is 
bridged through them.

4.2.4. Important User Information
Cryptocurrencies, tokens, and blockchain applications are highly risky. They are novel and 
rapidly-evolving technologies whose availability, usage, utility, value, and functionality is 
dependent on and affected by third party actors, market forces, regulatory environments, and 
emergent or changing technologies and behaviors. These factors create significant complexity 
and introduce new and unanticipated risks or consequences. WLD may never increase in value 
and/or utility, or it may lose all value and/or utility. For more information, visit https://world.
org/risks.
4.3. WLD Token Allocation
The following figure shows the allocation of WLD’s total supply to the four high-level stake -
holder groups. Note that, since launch, the token allocation has changed within the 25% of 
the TFH Investors + Team + TFH Reserve allocation of tokens. The 75% World Community 
tokens are unaffected by this.
Figure  18:  Current WLD token allocation (percent of 10B initial total supply) as of April 28, 2025
The following table provides details on the token allocation.
Percentage Category Description
75% World Community World Foundation governs the allocation of these tokens in line with 
its Articles of Association and a mandate to continue decentralizing 
governance of token management decision-making. Most of these to-
kens are allocated to users; some will be used for the ecosystem fund 
and network operations (details below).
11.1% Team These tokens go to the TFH team and other service providers that 
took the steps to develop World.
13.6% TFH Investors TFH investors provided funding that enabled TFH to support the 
multi-year pre-launch phase of World.
0.3% TFH Reserve TFH retains a reserve of WLD tokens to address future needs of 
TFH.
4.3.1. Unlocked Supply and Circulating Supply
This section discusses token lock-ups and how WLD comes into circulation. Here are two terms 
to understand:

• Circulating supply denotes the total amount of WLD tokens that are freely circulating, 
meaning they do not have any specific transfer restrictions imposed upon them, and are 
not subject to the protocol’s governance discretion. This also includes tokens that could 
be acquired by external parties at any time, e.g., liquidity positions.
• Unlocked supply denotes the total amount of WLD tokens that are either part of the 
circulating supply or are unlocked but subject to the protocol’s governance discretion on 
their rate of release into the circulating supply.
4.3.1.1. Unlocked Supply Schedule
An important feature of the unlocked supply schedule is that (a) team and investor tokens are 
subject to lock-ups, while (b) tokens claimed by users are not locked up. The following figure 
shows the 15-year WLD token unlock schedule. Importantly, governance will determine the rate 
at which WLD tokens from the World community category are introduced into the circulating 
supply. This will depend on several factors, particularly the speed at which the number of World 
users grows. Thus, the unlocked supply represents an upper bound on the maximum 
circulating supply.
Figure 19:  15-Year WLD token unlocked supply schedule (representing an upper bound on circulating 
supply). Governance controls the rate at which the unlocked World Community tokens are introduced into 
the circulating supply. After year 15, governance may enact an inflation rate of up to 1.5% per year.
Note: For simplicity, the figure above assumes that the tokens contained in the TFH Reserve 
unlock according to, a one-year full lockup starting 2025-04-27 plus two years of linear unlock 
(see below). Given that these tokens are currently unassigned, they may be subject to additional 
lock-up periods and may unlock somewhat later than shown in the figure. A live version of the 
unlocked schedule can be found on Dune.
Below are details about the unlocked supply schedule for each category of recipient:
4.3.1.1.1. World Community Tokens
Ahead of launch, all 7.5B WLD tokens allocated to the World Community were minted. 
However, the vast majority of those tokens unlock over a 15-year span (details below). This 
unlock schedule constrains the pace at which these tokens can be made available for ecosystem 
participants. The unlock schedule of tokens is enforced by four smart contracts ( 1,2,3,4). 
Importantly, the tokens allocated to users and operators are not locked up.
The WLD token amounts shown in the following table unlock across the specified periods. 
During each period, an equal number of tokens are unlocked each calendar day.

Time Period Amount of WLD Unlocked 
During Period
Cumulative WLD Unlocked 
at End of Period
At Launch 0.5B WLD 0.5B WLD
Launch – End of Year 3 3.5B WLD 4B WLD
Start of Year 4 – End of Year 6 1.75B WLD 5.75B WLD
Start of Year 7 – End of Year 9 0.875B WLD 6.625B WLD
Start of Year 10 – End of Year 15 0.875B WLD 7.5B WLD
Note: World aims to scale the network to every human. As the project grows, the number of 
people who are not part of the community necessarily becomes smaller. Given these dynamics, 
a substantial quantity of tokens are available for the World community within the first few 
years after launch, when the number of people who can join is highest and the rate of growth is 
the fastest. This is why 4B of the World Community tokens unlock over the initial three years. 
However, the rate at which these tokens enter the circulating supply depends on the speed of 
the network’s growth.
4.3.1.1.2. TFH Team and Investor Tokens
The tokens allocated to TFH investors were contractually fully locked up for 12 months after 
those investors exercised their respective token warrants (which they were able to do at launch). 
The team tokens had the same 12-months full lockup in place. After the full lockup period, 
approximately 80% of the TFH team and investor tokens started unlocking linearly over a 
48-month period while approximately 20% unlock linearly over a 24-month period. Unlocking 
for nearly all of these tokens therefore concludes by the end of July 2028—five years after 
protocol launch. Originally, all unlock schedules were over 24 months, but they were extended 
to 48 months for the majority of tokens in July 2024. The World Foundation previously shared 
information about these unlocks (see here), as this very gradual unlock schedule is longer than 
that of many projects and aligns with the long-term nature of World’s mission. Note that team 
members’ tokens may additionally be constrained by vesting schedules, which have their own 
timelines, typically tied to a person’s tenure at TFH.
4.3.1.1.3. TFH Reserve
The tokens in the TFH Reserve are contractually locked up for at least one year of full lockup 
plus two years of linear unlock from the time they are allocated. The exact lock-up period will 
depend on when these tokens are allocated.
4.3.1.2. Circulating Supply at Launch
Figure 4.2 shows the amount of unlocked WLD tokens over time. This is different from circu -
lating supply, which excludes unlocked WLD tokens that are held in the Foundation’s treasury 
but have not been allocated for any specific purpose.
The circulating supply of WLD primarily grows with network size and usage.  At 
launch, there were about 2M humans who had verified and were allocated a total of 43M Beta 
WLD tokens during the pre-launch phase of the project. In line with World’s goal of creating a 
network of as many humans as possible, the circulating supply of WLD was quite low at 100.7M 
WLD (1% of total supply), consisting of the following parts:
• 700k WLD tokens had been migrated by users from the pre-launch phase at launch. The 
remaining 42.3M WLD from the pre-launch phase remained available for migration for 
a period of time after launch.
• 100M WLD tokens had been loaned to trading firms operating outside of the US.
Since launch, the circulating supply of WLD has grown steadily. As of April 28, 2025, it stands 
at about 1.3B WLD (i.e., 13% of total supply). See the dune dashboard for live numbers.

4.4. Foundation’s Token Allocation Goal
Until the protocol is self-sufficient, the World Foundation acts as the steward of the World 
Community tokens. As part of its role, the Foundation has allocated those tokens towards three 
purposes: (1) user tokens, (2) network operations, and (3) an ecosystem fund. 
World’s evolution over time may be affected by a variety of factors, each of which could be 
significant. These factors include the number of Orbs deployed in the field, the number of new 
verifications per week, the activity of World’s users, the number and location of merchants, 
platforms, developers, and others seeking to utilize the functionalities of World, future gover -
nance decisions, and numerous other known and unknown factors. Therefore, the final allocation 
of the World Community tokens cannot yet be determined. Nonetheless, taking into account the 
project’s objectives and current scale, the World Foundation has formulated an aspirational 
token allocation goal, as shown in the following figure:
Figure 20:  Foundation’s Token Allocation Goal. For the Network Operation and Ecosystem Fund category, 
the major cost items are also shown.
World Foundation seeks to maximize the number of WLD tokens allocated to users in line with 
the various factors that affect World Network’s growth. This may mean that the Foundation 
allocates fewer tokens to network operations and the ecosystem fund over time than shown in 
the above figure.
4.4.1. User Tokens (target allocation: ≥ 60%)
Worldcoin’s tokenomics is unique in that the majority of WLD tokens will be freely available to 
claim by individuals over time in the form of user tokens (previously known as “user grants” or 
the “WLD airdrop”). Individuals can claim these tokens simply for engaging in World Network 
and verifying their unique humanness. Because of this, the circulating supply of WLD 
primarily grows with network size and usage.
Given that equality is one of the project’s guiding values, there was not a large one-time airdrop 
at launch, as such an event would have likely resulted in tokens flowing to a small group of 
people. Instead, the availability of WLD tokens is based on the following three principles:
• Unique humanness.  Every verified unique human is eligible to claim user tokens 
(subject to the availability noted above).

• Fairness. At any given point in time, all verified individuals, across all applicable 
countries, can claim the same amount of tokens (subject to availability).
• Incentives: User tokens are given out over time, and the claimable user token amount 
decreases over time. This gives users an additional incentive to join the network early and 
to regularly engage with the protocol, thereby addressing the cold-start problem inherent 
to launching a new network.
The user tokens are not an investment. If you already have an eligible credential (see below) 
attached to your World ID, you may claim user tokens without providing anything of value to 
World as the claim is in and of itself a simple check (using zero-knowledge proofs) to determine 
that you are in fact eligible. No appreciation or receipt of value is guaranteed or implied–and 
you don’t have to claim user tokens at all to participate in World Network.
4.4.1.1. How users can claim WLD tokens
To be eligible to claim user tokens, a user needs to have a credential attached to their World 
ID that is recognized by the protocol for the claiming of user tokens. Currently, two credentials 
are recognized for this purpose. The first is the proof of human credential, which individuals 
obtain by verifying their uniqueness at an Orb; this automatically attaches the credential to 
their World ID. The second is the passport credential (or in some countries a government ID 
credential), which individuals can attach to their World ID by connecting their phone to a 
compatible NFC-enabled government issued ID, such as a passport. Note that these credentials 
may not be available in some jurisdictions.
Eligible individuals can then make a claim for the following two types of user token amounts 
via a compatible app, such as World App, by checking if their credential is in the protocol:
• First User Token Amount: 24 hours after the credential is added, they can claim their 
first user token amount. As of August 1, 2025, the first user token amount is 25 WLD for 
the proof of human credential and 12.5 WLD for the passport credential. The amounts 
are expected to decrease over time.
• Recurring User Token Amounts: Starting one month after the credential is added, 
individuals can claim their first recurring user token amount. Each recurring user token 
amount is available to claim for one month to every (eligible) individual in the world. 
Recurring user token amounts are the same for everyone at a given point in time but 
decrease over time. The recurring amount for August 2025 is 3.22 WLD for the proof 
of human credential and 1.61 WLD for the passport credential. The ability to claim 
recurring user token amounts does currently not expire, though governance could change 
that at a later time.
If the same individual has attached both the proof of human and the passport credential, they 
can claim both of the respective (first and recurring) user token amounts. For example, an 
individual who attaches both credentials in April 2025 can claim a total first user token amount 
of 25 + 12.5 = 37.5 WLD.
For a user who becomes eligible today, one can compute how much WLD they may be able to 
maximally claim over the following year. To do this, one fetches the first user token amount 
and the currently configured future recurring user token amounts for one year (see Technical 
Information) and sums them up. The Worldcoin Mini App in World App currently displays 
the result to the user as their total user token amount to abstract away the intricacies of the 
schedule of recurring amounts.
As of 2025-08-01, the future recurring user token amounts (as currently configured in the smart 
contract) are as follows. Note that governance may change these amounts.

Year Month Recurring user token amount, proof 
of human credential (WLD)
Recurring user token amount, pass-
port credential (WLD)
2025 August 3.22 1.61
2025 September 3.20 1.60
2025 October 3.18 1.59
2025 November 3.16 1.58
2025 December 3.14 1.57
2026 January 3.12 1.56
2026 February 2.68 1.43
2026 March 2.60 1.30
2026 April 2.34 1.17
2026 May 2.08 1.04
2026 June 1.82 0.91
2026 July 1.56 0.78
2026 August 1.36 0.68
Unclaimed WLD tokens remain in the World community pool. Importantly, “claim” refers to 
the process described above by which user token amounts are received and is not intended to 
create or imply any legal relationship between any individual and World Foundation or any 
other entity.
Governance over user token amounts. The user token amounts are set by the protocol’s 
governance. Currently, governance is implemented via World Foundation, but it is expected 
that over time, governance will be increasingly decentralized. This means that governance could 
also alter the emission mechanism for user tokens. For example, once the system has stabilized, 
governance may decide to automatically update the user token amounts according to some rule 
implemented in a smart contract.
Long-term sustainability of the user token emission.  To achieve the goal of providing 
WLD tokens to every living human being (subject to availability and eligibility), governance 
may also decide to phase out the recurring user token amounts after a few years and only 
keep the first amount, thereby reserving the remaining tokens for new users in the future. As 
explained below, governance may also decide to direct a portion of the future fee revenue from 
World ID fees towards user tokens. Finally, as explained above, 15 years after launch, governance 
may also decide on enacting an inflation rate of up to 1.5% per year, if this is deemed necessary 
to continue the user token mechanism into the future.
Historical note: user token reservations for unverified individuals. For a period after 
launch, individuals were able to reserve user token amounts prior to verification and they would 
receive their reserved amounts once they verified at an Orb. Reservations have now been phased 
out and redemptions of these reservations close in July 2025.
Historical note: User token allocations during the pre-launch phase. During the pre-
launch phase of World, which lasted from May 2021 until July 2023, Beta WLD tokens were 
allocated to users in different stages (subject to availability). Users were able to migrate their 
Beta WLD to WLD at or after launch.
The remainder of this section discusses the other categories in the Foundation’s token allocation 
goal.
4.4.2. Network Operation (target allocation: ≤ 10%)
A portion of the WLD token supply allocated to the World Community is intended to be used 
to fund network operations. This section describes the main operational costs for the network, 
though this list is not intended to be exhaustive. Where necessary, these costs may be covered 
by World Foundation converting a portion of WLD tokens allocated to network operation into 
fiat or other currency.

Areas and responsibilities for network operations. The World Foundation is the steward 
of the World project, supporting and growing the community. The World Foundation owns the 
IP for the World ID protocol, the Orb, World Chain, and the Worldcoin token protocol. The 
World Foundation also governs the 75% of all Worldcoin (WLD) tokens that have been allocated 
to the World Community. In line with the project goals, the Foundation is allocating part of 
these tokens towards network operations and ecosystem building.These include the operation 
of the World ID sign up sequencer and uniqueness services, entities supporting World Chain, 
user engagement, and community outreach.
Other areas of network operations are the responsibility of ecosystem contributors. These areas 
include Orb manufacturing and operations. One of these ecosystem contributors is Tools for 
Humanity (TFH), the initial development company that launched World Network.
The World Foundation plans to further decentralize network operations, for example, through 
additional service providers and decentralized structures that ensure the long-term sustainabil-
ity of the operations of the network.
4.4.2.1. Orb Manufacturing
Part of the WLD token supply is used to fund ongoing manufacturing costs. To this end, World 
Foundation engages TFH to oversee manufacturing of the Orb. In the future, other service 
providers may also be engaged to manufacture the Orb or devices similar to the Orb.
4.4.2.2. Orb Operations
Orb Operators  are independent ecosystem participants who operate the Orbs and receive 
Operator rewards for verifying individuals at the Orb. It is important that Operators provide 
users with a high-quality experience by educating them about the project and supporting them 
during the verification process. To align the Operators’ financial interests with the objectives 
of World, Operator rewards are impacted by measures of sign-up quality.
To ensure the long-term financial viability of World (given the Foundation’s long-term goal of 
deploying 50,000 Orbs), competitive mechanisms have been trialed to determine fair Operator 
rewards. This also encourages Operators to innovate and quickly adapt to the changing needs 
of the project. The vast majority of Operator rewards is paid in WLD tokens (subject to the 
availability noted above), while a small share is paid in USDC.
4.4.2.3. Other Operations
Part of the WLD token supply is used by World Foundation to fund other operational costs, 
which includes logistics associated with Orb deployment, production of equipment provided to 
Operators, etc.
4.4.2.4. Market Operations Support
Part of the WLD token supply will be used by World Foundation to fund market operations 
support, which includes the recruitment, training and coordination of the network of Operators 
around the world.
4.4.2.5. User Engagement Initiatives and Community Outreach
When launching in a new country or region, part of the WLD token supply can be used by 
World Foundation to fund user engagement initiatives and community outreach programs (e.g., 
partnering with local organizations).

4.4.2.6. Sequencer and Uniqueness Service Operation
When a person verifies with an Orb, the uniqueness of their biometric information needs to be 
verified, and the proof of uniqueness needs to be written to the blockchain. The corresponding 
service is operated by World Foundation. World Foundation also supports the operation of a 
sequencer for World Chain that writes the state of the World Chain to Ethereum. Part of the 
token supply is allocated toward covering the cost of these services.
4.4.2.7. Bug Bounty Programs
While the hardware and software have been extensively audited by external security auditing 
companies (see the Orb audit and protocol audits), additional bug bounty programs have been 
set up for the smart contracts and other software. These bug bounty programs may also function 
as tools for the progressive decentralization of the project.
4.4.3. Ecosystem Fund (target allocation: ≤ 5%)
The ecosystem fund is intended to be used by World Foundation to support activities for the 
continued development and decentralization of World. These costs are largely independent of 
the network size or the size of the on-the-ground operations.
4.4.3.1. Protocol R&D
Some funds are used by World Foundation for continued development of World and related 
software. This includes, for example, the development of the World ID protocol, World Chain, 
and may in the future include the development of client apps.
4.4.3.2. Orb R&D
Ecosystem funds are also used for continued research and development of Orb hardware and 
software, including security mechanisms and new features.
4.4.3.3. Standards Development, Audits, and Certification
Some funds are used by World Foundation to foster standardization of the different parts of 
World, including different wallet apps, the Orb and the on-chain protocol. Standards help 
decentralization by making it easier for different parties to become part of the network. In the 
future, some funds are expected to be used for audits (e.g., of new biometric devices or new 
wallet apps) and certifying new service providers.
4.4.3.4. Ecosystem Grants
Some funds are used for ecosystem grants, which are issued for the development of new 
protocols, systems and integrations that are part of World, as well as for additional research 
and development.
4.4.3.5. Incentive Programs
Some funds are used for programs that directly incentivize activities by persons, companies and 
protocols that contribute to the ecosystem’s growth.
4.4.3.6. Liquidity Provisioning
World Assets,, Ltd. entered into loan agreements with several trading firms operating outside 
of the US. These loans enable trading firms to independently assess and provide liquidity for 
WLD tokens.

As of 2025-04-28, these entities collectively hold loans worth 13M WLD. Out of this amount, 
10M WLD expire on 2025-06-14, 1M WLD expire on 2025-09-26, and 2M WLD are currently 
not marked for expiry. The loans must be repaid in full in WLD – in particular, there is no call 
option.
4.4.3.7. World Foundation Operations
Part of the ecosystem fund will be used to fund a small staff working at World Foundation, 
along with associated operational costs (e.g., legal, administration).
4.4.4. World ID Fees
World ID is a protocol enabling a global, privacy-preserving identity network. At its core is the 
proof of human credential provided by the Orb. Additionally, the World ID protocol enables 
any entity (e.g., enterprises or governmental institutions) to create a new World ID Credential 
(e.g., a credit report or a university certificate), which individuals can attach to their World 
ID. Individuals can then share things about themselves without revealing their real identity. 
For example, Orb-verified individuals can prove to an application (aka a relying party) “I am a 
unique human”, while individuals who have added a passport credential can prove “I am over 
18” or “I am a US citizen”. Credentials can also be combined to make composite proofs, for 
example “I am a unique human who is over 18”, without revealing any other information. Given 
the importance of knowing whether a credential (like the age credential) has only been used 
once for a given application, it is expected that most World ID proofs will include the proof of 
human credential in this way.
Applications that integrate World ID can request and use such proofs, for example, to avoid bot 
accounts, to prevent AI impersonation and fraud, or to implement age controls. Furthermore, AI 
Agents may soon require a technology like World ID for humans to delegate authority to agents.
As part of its mission, the World Foundation aims to progressively decentralize the ecosystem 
and make the project self-sufficient. In the context of the World ID protocol, this has two 
primary components:
• Incentives for credential issuers : Enable credential issuers to generate sufficient 
revenue such that they are incentivized to issue and maintain their credentials.
• Protocol sustainability: Generate sufficient revenue to make the protocol sustainable. 
To this end, the Foundation is currently designing changes to the World ID protocol that will 
enable the option to charge fees, payable in WLD, to applications using World ID proofs.
4.4.4.1. Charging Applications, not Users
World ID fees will be charged to applications, not to end users. The motivation for this is that 
value creation is most directly measurable by the applications. The value of World ID is realized 
when applications integrate it to either enhance their existing services or enable entirely new 
services—potentially even spawning new business models previously impossible to implement. 
It is therefore natural for the protocol to charge applications for consuming World ID services. 
Applications are accustomed to paying for the components they integrate and can be expected 
to recognize the value World ID brings to their offerings. This approach ensures that a portion 
of the value created for applications flows back to the credential issuers and the protocol.
4.4.4.2. Details on World ID Fees
World ID fees will consist of two components:
1. Credential fee: Each credential issuer (e.g., the World Foundation for the Orb creden-
tial, enterprises or governmental institutions for their credentials) will be able to set a 

fee for their credential, and they will receive the corresponding fee revenue. This ensures 
that credential issuers have an incentive to create and maintain their credentials.
2. Protocol fee: The protocol will set a base fee and additionally charge a small premium 
on top of the credential fee. This will ensure that enough revenue is generated to make 
the protocol self-sufficient.
From an application’s perspective, there will only be one World ID fee – the sum of the credential 
fee and the protocol fee. The World ID fee will be charged when an application (identified via 
a unique app id) requests a World ID proof.
Fee payment will be enforced at the protocol level. This is one of the features enabled by 
the private state blockchain  employed by the future World ID architecture (see here for a 
technical background on the underlying cryptography used). Informally speaking, a private 
state blockchain can update its internal state without anyone being able to observe it, while still 
being permissionless: anyone can operate a node, but certain state variables are only available 
within the computation of the private state blockchain itself, not observable in clear text outside 
of it.
Employing a private state blockchain will enable various features for the World ID protocol (e.g., 
World ID recovery and multi-wallet usage). Importantly, it will also store part of the application 
state belonging to each verified user. The World ID smart contract will programmatically check 
whether the fee has been paid before providing a receipt of the state change from the private 
state blockchain that enables the user to then generate the proof. In this way, using a private 
state blockchain also ensures that applications cannot circumvent World ID fees, as they cannot 
observe the state of the blockchain.
Figure  21:  High-level overview of the planned World ID fee implementation
Figure 4.4 presents a high-level overview of the planned World ID fee implementation, using 
the example of a user who has already enrolled with a credential issuer and had their credential 
registered on the private state blockchain. World ID fees then work as follows: (1) An application 
that has integrated with World ID requests a proof (e.g., of unique humanness) from the user. 
(2) The user (via a World ID app like World App) decides to execute the request towards the 
World ID smart contract on the private state blockchain. (3) The smart contract automatically 
triggers the WLD fee payment from a wallet associated with the requesting application. (4) 
The corresponding credential fee is paid to the credential issuer wallet, and the protocol fee is 
paid to the protocol wallet. (5) The World ID smart contract updates its own state. (6) The 
World ID smart contract sends a receipt of the state change to the user. (7) The user’s app 
generates and sends the World ID proof to the application.
The World ID smart contract will require fees to be paid in WLD, meaning applications’ 
wallets on the private state blockchain must be pre-funded with WLD. Web3-native applications 

can directly pre-fund their wallet on the blockchain. Alternatively, applications (e.g., Web2 
platforms) might use a third-party pre-funding service that handles the wallet pre-funding for 
them and charges the application in fiat. Either way, WLD tokens are ultimately used to pay 
all fees.
4.4.4.3. Pricing Mechanisms
Figure 4.4 implicitly assumes that World ID fees are paid for every World ID proof. In 
practice, each credential issuer will be able to choose any pricing mechanism compatible with 
the architecture shown in Figure 4.4. Because pricing mechanisms are implemented as smart 
contracts on the private state blockchain, a wide array of options becomes possible, including:
• Per-proof: A fee could be charged for every World ID proof.
• Per-monthly-active-user: A fee could be charged for every monthly active user (per 
app-id). For each user, the fee would be collected the first time a proof is requested 
for that user in a given month. Since the computation happens inside the private state 
blockchain, per-monthly-active-user pricing models can be implemented without revealing 
the identity of users.
• Free tiers: The first 1000 users or the first 1000 proofs could be free.
• Volume discounts: The per-user or per-proof fee could decrease with volume.
• Discounts for specific applications : A credential issuer could offer discounts to 
specific applications (e.g., NGOs), or even offer their credentials for free.
• Fees proportional to economic value: A credential issuer could offer multiple proof 
variants at different fee levels, with some variants intentionally providing a lower level of 
proof assurance, allowing applications to select the level that best fits their needs.
For the base fee component of the protocol fee, governance will similarly be able to decide on a 
suitable pricing mechanism. While several different pricing mechanisms are possible, it is likely 
that most applications will prefer a per-monthly-active-user fee, as it allows applications to 
compare that fee with the value that World ID generates for them per user per month (e.g., 
due to an increase in ARPU).
For composite proofs like “I am a unique human who is over 18 years old,” fee amounts could 
potentially depend on the combination of credentials required by a World ID proof. For example, 
the fee for a “uniqueness” proof could be lower than the fee for a “uniqueness + age” proof.
4.4.4.4. Fee usage
Each credential issuer will have discretion over how to use their credential fees. As for protocol 
fees, the World Foundation will initially govern their allocation. Over time, as governance 
becomes more decentralized, the World community will take over this responsibility. The 
community may choose to direct a portion of the fees toward continued network growth—
for example, by supporting Operators or funding the User Tokens—or even decide to burn a 
share of the fees. As the World ID protocol grows (with more participants, more applications, 
and more proof verifications), more fees will be generated, which can then flow back into the 
ecosystem to create further growth, leading to a self-reinforcing growth mechanism.
4.4.4.5. Next steps on World ID Fees
The World Foundation is currently working on the protocol changes necessary to enable World 
ID fees. The Foundation expects to complete this work and run a first pilot to test the fee 
mechanism during Q3 2025. The Foundation believes that demonstrating a path towards World 
ID fees early on is important to incentivize other parties in the ecosystem to issue and maintain 
their credentials, and to show how the protocol can become self-sufficient.

While the Foundation prepares to launch World ID fees, its primary focus remains squarely 
on growing World Network. The Foundation will also continue providing ecosystem grants to 
support the community of mini app developers, credential issuers, and applications integrating 
with World ID.
4.4.5. Technical Information
4.4.5.1. Contracts and Addresses
4.4.5.1.1. Smart Contracts
Contract Network Address
WLD Token Contract Ethereum 0x163f8C2467924be0ae7B5347
228CABF260318753
WLD Token Contract World Chain 0x2cFc85d8E48F8EAB294be644
d9E25C3030863003
WLD Token Contract Optimism 0xdC6fF44d5d932Cbd77B52E56
12Ba0529DC6226F1
Community Tokens Unlock Con-
tracts
Ethereum 0x1770bd8186AAd27Df9B050D6
5f86CF2cdC92C296 0xaEE0360b
73B5D01dad134f234d3a93ad
c1680e57 0x938ceD2D1eE4AFB2
20929F96c2eB754C053C77F7 
0x5B5442C5fcEaE3b40C230C32
a3Ffe924BcBe7D93
Recurring User Token Amounts 
Allocation Contract, Orb
World Chain 0x2c1Ca1FBbD5f28e5492Cc6bF
8C4e8c57354eb162
Optimism (deprecated) 0xe773335550b63eed23a6e60d
cc4709106a1f653c
Recurring User Token Amounts 
Allocation Contract, Passport 
Credential
World Chain 0x85C0BEb46E91D18dFeA0294E
6FC46A8c8AF2BeaD
First User Token Amounts Allo-
cation Contract, Orb
World Chain 0xf4d26620B6d9AE07F2495757
C8Bd00090cE2A172
First User Token Amounts Allo-
cation Contract, Passport Cre-
dential
World Chain 0x008177c4F0C0c64334D7CC27
02b783387fCe6d62
Beta WLD Token Contract (dep-
recated)
Optimism 0x0346c32E5d7e98bD57100b6F
7002a0Ae17188048
User token amounts can be fetched as follows: the currently active grant IDs and future recurring 
user token amounts can be fetched from the WLDGrant contract available at (Recurring User 
Token Amounts Allocation Contract).grant()  where one chooses the Recurring User Token 
Amounts Allocation Contract corresponding to the respective credential (Orb or Passport). The 
current first user token amount can be fetched from API endpoint at: https://api.airdrop.
world.org/v1/grants/first-claim-amount?grantId=<current_grant_id>

4.4.5.1.2. Main Wallets
Wallet Network Address
World Foundation Cold Wallets Ethereum 0xc534a745bFfaF9466Ed7B47f
A23B0177b99A3e77
Optimism 0xc534a745bFfaF9466Ed7B47f
A23B0177b99A3e77
World Chain 0xc534a745bFfaF9466Ed7B47f
A23B0177b99A3e77
World Assets, Ltd. Cold Wallets Ethereum 0x59a0f98345f54bAB245A0434
88ECE7FCecD7B596
Optimism 0x59a0f98345f54bAB245A0434
88ECE7FCecD7B596
World Chain 0x59a0f98345f54bAB245A0434
88ECE7FCecD7B596
World Assets, Ltd. Hot Wallets Ethereum 0xc4151Dd19A38E7224793F5aD
8fBDD912750e3565
World Chain 0x8C00371AEf2482477c15c878
D58044d64A7FCcA3
World Assets, Ltd. Hot Wallet: 
Recurring User Token Amounts
World Chain 0x30672EbB8D3c3b62C261a23B
4a225712FF2CAdBC
Optimism (deprecated) 0x7f26A7572E8B877654eeDcBc
4E573657619FA3CE
World Assets, Ltd. Hot Wallet: 
First User Token Amount
World Chain 0x1c288c748F368E8dcD87dB0d
29888666842502aA
World Assets, Ltd. Hot Wallet: 
Reservations
World Chain 0xDAA7BbAD496c4D4431423bE6
4d878a769FbDEBc8
WLD Vault World Chain 0x14a028cC500108307947dca4
a1Aa35029FB66CE0
Optimism (deprecated) 0x21c4928109acB0659A88AE53
29b5374A3024694C
Optimism – World Chain Migra-
tion
Optimism 0x6CE3A5478232F0DfAE37D717
8C24F984cCa696a8
World Chain 0xC6968c6DF1a2C31Ac66B4294
5BbaD91635a0095B
World Assets, Ltd. Hot Wallet: 
Welcome Grants and Beta Token 
Migration (deprecated)
Optimism 0x074a9ed58d11e3f0f589072c
99de86f80971a844
World Assets, Ltd. Hot Wallet: 
Temporary holding wallet
Optimism 0xF8Cf291d92e52B722C31af1F
DE9F0D7E890E0E0A
World Assets, Ltd. Hot Wallet: 
Beta Token Migration 2 (depre-
cated)
Optimism 0x46DcEC50647abFb2905Af8Da
4e670051653A5FBC
Polygon Bridge (Beta User Mi-
gration, deprecated)
Optimism 0xe710657bEbDBd75fBDaCA07D
57c2A5aE04085507
4.5. FAQ
How do the World Chain contracts relate to the Ethereum contracts?
The WLD token contract is deployed on Ethereum mainnet, and the token is bridged to the 
World Chain “layer 2” network. However, World Foundation expects that most of the activity 
in WLD tokens will happen on World Chain, where verified individuals receive their user token 
amounts. In addition, World App primarily interacts with the World Chain network. The 
reasons for choosing World Chain over Ethereum as the primary venue were scalability and 
transaction costs. A legacy bridged version of WLD also still exists on Optimism.
Who pays the transaction costs (gas fees)?

World App users generally do not currently incur gas costs; the gas fees for claiming WLD 
tokens, performing swaps, and other transactions are currently funded by TFH. In the future, 
World App could require users to pay gas fees for certain actions, e.g., transfers made to other 
wallets. When users verify their identity to a third-party application via World ID, this does 
not incur gas costs for the protocol. However, the third-party applications may charge users 
gas fees (depending on whether they verify the proof on-chain or off-chain) or other fees. For 
instance, when using the swap feature in World App, users do pay any fees incurred on third-
party platforms. Users may incur gas fees for transactions that are not made through World 
App that are dependent on the platform and chain on which the transaction is occurring. 
How are the World Community tokens stored? Do you use a custody provider?
The majority of the World Community tokens are stored in a cold wallet. Additionally, several 
hot wallets are used by World Foundation and World Assets, Ltd., to manage everyday opera-
tions. Tokens are typically only stored in these hot wallets for a short period of time, and these 
wallets only store as many tokens as needed.
Who controls the WLD token contract? Is it upgradable? Does anyone have minting 
rights?
The WLD token contract is not upgradable. No control can be exercised over the contract, 
except for setting the “minter” address in case the community decides to activate inflation. For 
15 years following the launch, no address is able to mint any new tokens. After 15 years, a 
“minter” address (controlled by protocol governance) can mint up to 1.5% new WLD tokens 
per year, with governance deciding how to allocate them.
What are the involved entities and where are they incorporated?
The World Foundation is an exempted limited guarantee foundation company, incorporated in 
the Cayman Islands. It is “memberless,” meaning it has no shareholders or beneficial owners. 
Its registered office is located at Suite 3119, 9 Forum Lane, Camana Bay, George Town, Grand 
Cayman KY1-9006, Cayman Islands. World Foundation’s principal purpose, as set forth in its 
Articles of Association, is to support and encourage the growth of those building in the World 
ecosystem, support and foster the decentralization of World technologies and governance, hold 
and license intellectual property relating to the World Network, and to receive, sell, hold, loan, 
and spend assets to support these purposes. 
World Assets, Ltd. is a company registered in the British Virgin Islands on December 7, 2022 
with BVI Company Number 2113558. The World Foundation is the sole member/director of 
World Assets, Ltd. World Assets, Ltd.is responsible for issuing the 7.5B Worldcoin tokens 
(WLD) that have been allocated to the World community. 
World Chain LLC is a limited liability company formed in the Cayman Islands. World Foun -
dation is its sole member and manager. World Chain LLC is responsible for the ownership and 
operation of World Chain infrastructure.
More information about these entities, including incorporation documentation and equity 
composition, can be found at foundation.world.org/about. 
Tools for Humanity (TFH) is a Delaware corporation headquartered in San Francisco, California 
(US), with a wholly-owned subsidiary, Tools for Humanity GmbH based in Germany. Its regis-
tered office is located at CSC 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, Delaware 19808. It registered 
on June 26, 2019 and its legal entity number is 7487684. TFH supported World’s multi-year 
pre-launch phase, during which it developed the Orb, the first version of the protocol, and the 
World App, the first wallet for World Network, which it still operates today. It is governed 
entirely independently of World Foundation. Founded in 2019, TFH has grown to a team of 
approximately 500 people today. However, World is an open protocol that anyone can contribute 
to and build on.

4.6. Disclaimer
PLEASE READ THE ENTIRETY OF THIS “NOTICE AND DISCLAIMER” SECTION 
CAREFULLY. NOTHING HEREIN CONSTITUTES LEGAL, FINANCIAL, BUSINESS, 
INVESTMENT OR TAX ADVICE AND YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN LEGAL, 
FINANCIAL, BUSINESS, INVESTMENT, TAX OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S) 
BEFORE ENGAGING IN ANY ACTIVITY IN CONNECTION HEREWITH. NEITHER 
THE WORLD FOUNDATION (THE FOUNDATION) AND ANY OF THE PROJECT 
PARTICIPANTS (TOGETHER WITH THE PROJECT PARTICIPANTS, THE WORLD 
NETWORK) WHO HAVE WORKED ON WORLD NETWORK (AS DESCRIBED 
HEREIN) OR DEVELOPERS OF WORLD NETWORK IN ANY CAPACITY WHATSO -
EVER, NOR ANY SERVICE PROVIDER SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY KIND OF DIRECT 
OR INDIRECT DAMAGE OR LOSS WHATSOEVER WHICH YOU MAY SUFFER IN 
CONNECTION WITH ACCESSING THIS WHITEPAPER, THE WEBSITE AT HTTPS:// 
WORLD.ORG (THE WEBSITE) OR ANY OTHER WEBSITES OR MATERIALS PUB -
LISHED BY THE FOUNDATION.
4.6.1. Crypto Products
Crypto products can be highly risky and their regulatory treatment is unsettled in many juris-
dictions. There may be no regulatory recourse for any loss from transactions in WLD tokens. 
Any value ascribed to WLD tokens may change quickly and may be lost in its entirety. Further, 
the technologies comprising World Network, including the WLD token, are experimental in 
nature. There is no guarantee that the network will operate as planned. For more information, 
visit www.world.org/risks. Holding, buying, or selling WLD tokens may not be permitted where 
you live, and it is your responsibility to comply with all applicable laws. Worldcoin (WLD) 
tokens are not intended to be available to residents of the State of New York or certain other 
restricted territories. More details can be found at http://www.world.org/tos.
As described further below, this document contains forward-looking estimates and statements 
regarding the intended actions and objectives of World Foundation and World Network, based 
largely on current expectations and projections about future events for which the outcome is 
uncertain. It is therefore subject to a number of known and unknown risks, including those 
described at www.world.org/risks, that could cause the actual outcomes to differ materially 
from what is expressed or implied herein. Readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on 
these future-looking estimates and statements. The content of this document speaks only as of 
the date thereof.
4.6.2. Nature of the Whitepaper
The Whitepaper and the Website are intended for general informational purposes and commu-
nity discussion only and do not constitute a prospectus, an offer document, an offer of securities, 
a solicitation for investment, or any offer to sell any product, item or asset (whether digital 
or otherwise). Nothing contained in the Whitepaper or the Website is or may be relied upon 
as a promise, representation or undertaking as to the future performance of World Network. 
The information herein may not be exhaustive and does not imply any element of a contractual 
relationship commitment in relation to the acquisition of WLD Token, and no virtual currency 
or other form of payment is to be accepted on the basis of the Whitepaper or the Website. There 
is no assurance as to the accuracy or completeness of such information and no representation, 
warranty or undertaking is or purported to be provided as to the accuracy or completeness of 
such information. Nothing contained in the Whitepaper or the Website is or may be relied upon 
as a promise, representation or undertaking as to the future performance of World Network. 
Any agreement between any third party and you, in relation to any sale, purchase, or other 
distribution or transfer of WLD Token, is to be governed only by the separate terms and 
conditions of such agreement, and such agreement must be read together with the Whitepaper. 
Where the Whitepaper or the Website includes information that has been obtained from third 
party sources, the Foundation, their respective affiliates and/or World Network have not inde-

pendently verified the accuracy or completion of such information. Further, you acknowledge 
that circumstances may change and that the Whitepaper or the Website may become outdated 
as a result; and the Foundation is not under any obligation to update or correct this document 
in connection therewith. 
The information set out in the Whitepaper and the Website is for community discussion only 
and is not legally binding. No person is bound to enter into any contract or binding legal 
commitment in relation to the acquisition of any WLD token, and no virtual currency or other 
form of payment is to be accepted on the basis of the Whitepaper or the Website. Any agreement 
governing the sale or acquisition of WLD tokens shall be governed by a separate set of Terms 
of Service, available at www.world.org/tos. The Terms of Service must be read together with 
the Whitepaper and further information available at www.world.org/risks. In the event of any 
inconsistencies between the Terms of Service and the Whitepaper or the Website, the Terms of 
Service shall prevail.
4.6.3. Token Features
The native digital cryptographically-secured cryptocurrency of World Network (WLD Token) 
is a transferable representation of attributed functions specified in the protocol/code of World 
Network, designed to play a major role in the functioning of the ecosystem on World Network, 
and intended to be used solely as the primary utility and future governance token on the 
platform. The goal of introducing WLD Token is to provide a convenient and secure mode 
of payment and settlement between participants who interact within the ecosystem on World 
Network, and it is not, and not intended to be, a medium of exchange accepted by the public (or 
a section of the public) as payment for goods or services or for the discharge of a debt; nor is it 
designed or intended to be used by any person as payment for any goods or services whatsoever 
that are not exclusively provided by the issuer. WLD Token may only be utilized on World 
Network, and ownership of WLD Token carries no rights, express or implied, other than the 
right to use WLD Token as a means to enable usage of and interaction within World Network. 
WLD Token is not intended to be an investment, and no value appreciation is guaranteed or 
implied.
4.6.4. Deemed Representations and Warranties
By accessing the Whitepaper or the Website (or any part thereof), you shall be deemed to 
represent and warrant to the Foundation, their respective affiliates, and World Network as 
follows:
• in any decision to receive and/or purchase any WLD Token, you shall not rely on any 
statement set out in the Whitepaper or the Website;
• you will and shall at your own expense ensure compliance with all laws, regulatory 
requirements and restrictions applicable to you (as the case may be);
• you acknowledge, understand and agree that WLD Token may have no value, there is no 
guarantee or representation of value or liquidity for WLD Token, and WLD Token is not 
an investment product including for any speculative investment;
• WLD tokens may not always be transferable or liquid;
• WLD tokens may not be exchangeable against any goods or services contemplated in the 
Whitepaper, especially in case of failure or discontinuation of the project;
• none of the Foundation, their respective affiliates, and/or World Network members shall 
be responsible for or liable for the value of WLD Token, the transferability and/or 
liquidity of WLD Token and/or the availability of any market for WLD Token through 
third parties or otherwise; and

• you acknowledge, understand and agree that you are not eligible to purchase any WLD 
Token if you are a citizen, national, resident (tax or otherwise), domiciliary and/or green 
card holder of a geographic area or country (i) where it is likely that the sale of WLD 
Token would be construed as the sale of a security, financial service or investment product 
and/or (ii) where participation in token sales is prohibited by applicable law, decree, 
regulation, treaty, or administrative act; and to this effect you agree to provide all such 
identity verification document when requested in order for the relevant checks to be 
carried out.
The Foundation disclaims all representations, warranties or undertakings to any entity or 
person (including without limitation warranties as to the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or 
reliability of the contents of the Whitepaper or the Website, or any other materials published 
by the Foundation). To the maximum extent permitted by law, the Foundation, their respective 
affiliates and service providers, and the World Network shall not be liable for any indirect, 
special, incidental, consequential or other losses of any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise 
(including, without limitation, any liability arising from default or negligence on the part of any 
of them, or any loss of revenue, income or profits, and loss of use or data) arising from the use 
of the Whitepaper or the Website, or any other materials published, or its contents (including 
without limitation any errors or omissions) or otherwise arising in connection with the same. 
Prospective purchasers of the WLD Token should carefully consider and evaluate all risks and 
uncertainties (including financial and legal risks and uncertainties) associated with the WLD 
Token sale, the Foundation, and World Network.
4.6.5. Disclaimers Relating to the WLD Token
It is expressly highlighted that WLD Token:
• does not have any tangible or physical manifestation, and does not have any intrinsic 
value (nor does any person make any representation or give any commitment as to its 
value), and may lose its value in part or in full;
• is non-refundable and cannot be exchanged for cash (or its equivalent value in any other 
virtual currency) or any payment obligation by the Foundation, the World Network, or 
any of their respective affiliates, and may not always be transferrable or liquid;
• does not represent or confer on the token holder any right of any form with respect to 
the Foundation, the World Network (or any of their respective affiliates), or its revenues 
or assets, including without limitation any right to receive future dividends, revenue, 
shares, ownership right or stake, share or security, any voting, distribution, redemption, 
liquidation, proprietary (including all forms of intellectual property or license rights), 
right to receive accounts, financial statements or other financial data, the right to 
requisition or participate in shareholder meetings, the right to nominate a director, or 
other financial or legal rights or equivalent rights, or intellectual property rights or any 
other form of participation in or relating to World Network, the Foundation, and/or their 
service providers;
• does not entitle token holders to any promise of fees, dividends, revenue, profits or invest-
ment returns, and are not intended to constitute securities in any relevant jurisdiction;
• is not intended to represent any rights under a contract for differences or under any other 
contract the purpose or pretended purpose of which is to secure a profit or avoid a loss;
• may not be exchangeable against the good or service described herein, especially in case 
of failure or discontinuation of World;
• is not intended to be a representation of money (including electronic money), security, 
commodity, bond, debt instrument, unit in a collective investment scheme or any other 
kind of financial instrument or investment;

• is not a loan to the Foundation, the World Network, or any of their respective affiliates, 
is not intended to represent a debt owed by the Foundation, the World Network, or any 
of their respective affiliates, and there is no expectation of profit; and
• does not provide the token holder with any ownership or other interest in the Foundation, 
the World Network, or any of their respective affiliates.
4.6.6. Informational Purposes Only
The project roadmap in the Whitepaper is being shared in order to outline the current 
status of World as well as some of the plans of World Network and is provided solely for 
informational purposes and does not constitute any binding commitment. Please do not rely 
on this information in making purchasing decisions because ultimately, further development, 
release, and timing of any products, features or functionality remains at the sole discretion 
of the Foundation, the World Network, or their respective affiliates, and is subject to change. 
Further, the Whitepaper or the Website may be amended or replaced from time to time. There 
are no obligations to update the Whitepaper or the Website, or to provide recipients with access 
to any information beyond what is provided herein.
4.6.7. Regulatory Approval
The legal and regulatory treatment of digital assets in the United States and globally continues 
to evolve. The Foundation actively monitors applicable laws and may adjust its operations and 
distribution mechanisms to maintain compliance with future regulatory developments.
No regulatory authority has examined or approved, whether formally or informally, of any of 
the information set out in the Whitepaper or the Website. No such action or assurance has 
been or will be taken under the laws, regulatory requirements or rules of any jurisdiction. The 
publication, distribution or dissemination of the Whitepaper or the Website does not imply 
that the applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been complied with. World 
Foundation is solely responsible for the content of this Whitepaper. This Whitepaper has not 
been reviewed or approved by any competent authority in any Member State of the European 
Union.
4.6.8. Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements
All statements contained herein, statements made in press releases or in any place accessible by 
the public and oral statements that may be made by the Foundation and/or the World Network 
may constitute forward-looking statements (including statements regarding intent, belief or 
current expectations with respect to market conditions, business strategy and plans, financial 
condition, specific provisions and risk management practices). You are cautioned not to place 
undue reliance on these forward-looking statements given that these statements involve known 
and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual future results 
to be materially different from that described by such forward-looking statements, and no 
independent third party has reviewed the reasonableness of any such statements or assumptions. 
These forward-looking statements are applicable only as of the date indicated in the Whitepaper, 
and the Foundation, as well as World Network expressly disclaim any responsibility (whether 
express or implied) to release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events 
after such date.
4.6.9. English Language
The Whitepaper and the Website may be translated into a language other than English for 
reference purpose only and in the event of conflict or ambiguity between the English language 
version and translated versions of the Whitepaper or the Website, the English language versions 
shall prevail. You acknowledge that you have read and understood the English language version 
of the Whitepaper and the Website.

5. Disclaimer
PLEASE READ THE ENTIRETY OF THIS “NOTICE AND DISCLAIMER” SECTION 
CAREFULLY. NOTHING HEREIN CONSTITUTES LEGAL, FINANCIAL, BUSINESS, 
INVESTMENT OR TAX ADVICE AND YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN LEGAL, 
FINANCIAL, BUSINESS, INVESTMENT, TAX OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S) 
BEFORE ENGAGING IN ANY ACTIVITY IN CONNECTION HEREWITH. NEITHER 
THE WORLD FOUNDATION (THE FOUNDATION) AND ANY OF THE PROJECT 
PARTICIPANTS (TOGETHER WITH THE PROJECT PARTICIPANTS, THE WORLD 
NETWORK) WHO HAVE WORKED ON THE WORLD NETWORK (AS DESCRIBED 
HEREIN) OR DEVELOPERS OF THE WORLD NETWORK IN ANY CAPACITY WHAT-
SOEVER, ANY DISTRIBUTOR/VENDOR OF WLD TOKENS (THE DISTRIBUTOR), 
NOR ANY SERVICE PROVIDER SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY KIND OF DIRECT 
OR INDIRECT DAMAGE OR LOSS WHATSOEVER WHICH YOU MAY SUFFER IN 
CONNECTION WITH ACCESSING THIS WHITEPAPER, THE WEBSITE AT HTTPS:// 
WORLD.ORG (THE WEBSITE) OR ANY OTHER WEBSITES OR MATERIALS PUB -
LISHED BY THE FOUNDATION.
5.1. Crypto Products
Crypto products can be highly risky and their regulatory treatment is unsettled in many juris-
dictions. There may be no regulatory recourse for any loss from transactions in WLD tokens. 
Any value ascribed to WLD tokens may change quickly and may be lost in its entirety. Further, 
the technologies comprising the World Network, including the WLD token, are experimental in 
nature. There is no guarantee that the network will operate as planned. For more information, 
visit https://world.org/risks. Holding, buying, or selling WLD tokens may not be permitted 
where you live, and it is your responsibility to comply with all applicable laws. Worldcoin 
(WLD) tokens are not intended to be available to residents of the United States or certain other 
restricted territories. More details can be found at https://world.org/tos.
As described further below, this document contains forward-looking estimates and statements 
regarding the intended actions and objectives of the World Foundation and the World Network, 
based largely on current expectations and projections about future events for which the outcome 
is uncertain. It is therefore subject to a number of known and unknown risks, including those 
described at https://world.org/risks, that could cause the actual outcomes to differ materially 
from what is expressed or implied herein. Readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on 
these future-looking estimates and statements. The content of this document speaks only as of 
the date thereof.
5.2. Nature of the Whitepaper
The Whitepaper and the Website are intended for general informational purposes and commu-
nity discussion only and do not constitute a prospectus, an offer document, an offer of securities, 
a solicitation for investment, or any offer to sell any product, item or asset (whether digital 
or otherwise). Nothing contained in the Whitepaper or the Website is or may be relied upon 
as a promise, representation or undertaking as to the future performance of World Network. 
The information herein may not be exhaustive and does not imply any element of a contractual 
relationship commitment in relation to the acquisition of WLD Token, and no virtual currency 
or other form of payment is to be accepted on the basis of the Whitepaper or the Website. There 
is no assurance as to the accuracy or completeness of such information and no representation, 
warranty or undertaking is or purported to be provided as to the accuracy or completeness of 
such information. Nothing contained in the Whitepaper or the Website is or may be relied upon 
as a promise, representation or undertaking as to the future performance of World Network. 
Any agreement between the Distributor (or any third party) and you, in relation to any sale, 

purchase, or other distribution or transfer of WLD Token, is to be governed only by the separate 
terms and conditions of such agreement, and such agreement must be read together with the 
Whitepaper. Where the Whitepaper or the Website includes information that has been obtained 
from third party sources, the Foundation, the Distributor, their respective affiliates and/or 
World Network have not independently verified the accuracy or completion of such information. 
Further, you acknowledge that circumstances may change and that the Whitepaper or the 
Website may become outdated as a result; and neither the Foundation nor the Distributor is 
under any obligation to update or correct this document in connection therewith.
The information set out in the Whitepaper and the Website is for community discussion only 
and is not legally binding. No person is bound to enter into any contract or binding legal 
commitment in relation to the acquisition of any WLD token, and no virtual currency or other 
form of payment is to be accepted on the basis of the Whitepaper or the Website. Any agreement 
governing the sale or acquisition of WLD tokens shall be governed by a separate set of Terms 
of Service, available at https://world.org/tos. The Terms of Service must be read together with 
the Whitepaper and further information available at https://world.org/risks. In the event of 
any inconsistencies between the Terms of Service and the Whitepaper or the Website, the Terms 
of Service shall prevail.
5.3. Token Features
The native digital cryptographically-secured utility token of World Network ( WLD Token) 
is a transferable representation of attributed functions specified in the protocol/code of World 
Network, designed to play a major role in the functioning of the ecosystem on World Network, 
and intended to be used solely as the primary utility and future governance token on the 
platform. The goal of introducing WLD Token is to provide a convenient and secure mode 
of payment and settlement between participants who interact within the ecosystem on World 
Network, and it is not, and not intended to be, a medium of exchange accepted by the public 
(or a section of the public) as payment for goods or services or for the discharge of a debt; 
nor is it designed or intended to be used by any person as payment for any goods or services 
whatsoever that are not exclusively provided by the issue. WLD Token may only be utilized 
on World Network, and ownership of WLD Token carries no rights, express or implied, other 
than the right to use WLD Token as a means to enable usage of and interaction within World 
Network.
5.4. Deemed Representations and Warranties
By accessing the Whitepaper or the Website (or any part thereof), you shall be deemed to 
represent and warrant to the Foundation, the Distributor, their respective affiliates, and World 
Network as follows:
• in any decision to receive and/or purchase any WLD Token, you shall not rely on any 
statement set out in the Whitepaper or the Website;
• you will and shall at your own expense ensure compliance with all laws, regulatory 
requirements and restrictions applicable to you (as the case may be);
• you acknowledge, understand and agree that WLD Token may have no value, there is no 
guarantee or representation of value or liquidity for WLD Token, and WLD Token is not 
an investment product including for any speculative investment;
• WLD tokens may not always be transferable or liquid;
• WLD tokens may not be exchangeable against any goods or services contemplated in the 
Whitepaper, especially in case of failure or discontinuation of the project;
• none of the Foundation, the Distributor, their respective affiliates, and/or World Network 
members shall be responsible for or liable for the value of WLD Token, the transferability 
and/or liquidity of WLD Token and/or the availability of any market for WLD Token 
through third parties or otherwise; and

• you acknowledge, understand and agree that you are not eligible to purchase any WLD 
Token if you are a citizen, national, resident (tax or otherwise), domiciliary and/or green 
card holder of a geographic area or country (i) where it is likely that the sale of WLD 
Token would be construed as the sale of a security, financial service or investment product 
and/or (ii) where participation in token sales is prohibited by applicable law, decree, 
regulation, treaty, or administrative act; and to this effect you agree to provide all such 
identity verification document when requested in order for the relevant checks to be 
carried out.
The Foundation disclaims all representations, warranties or undertakings to any entity or person 
(including without limitation warranties as to the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or relia -
bility of the contents of the Whitepaper or the Website, or any other materials published by the 
Foundation or the Distributor). To the maximum extent permitted by law, the Foundation, the 
Distributor, their respective affiliates and service providers shall not be liable for any indirect, 
special, incidental, consequential or other losses of any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise 
(including, without limitation, any liability arising from default or negligence on the part of any 
of them, or any loss of revenue, income or profits, and loss of use or data) arising from the use 
of the Whitepaper or the Website, or any other materials published, or its contents (including 
without limitation any errors or omissions) or otherwise arising in connection with the same. 
Prospective purchasers of the WLD Token should carefully consider and evaluate all risks and 
uncertainties (including financial and legal risks and uncertainties) associated with the WLD 
Token sale, the Foundation, the Distributor and World Network.
5.5. Disclaimers Relating to the WLD Token
It is expressly highlighted that WLD Token:
• does not have any tangible or physical manifestation, and does not have any intrinsic 
value (nor does any person make any representation or give any commitment as to its 
value), and may lose its value in part or in full;
• is non-refundable and cannot be exchanged for cash (or its equivalent value in any other 
virtual currency) or any payment obligation by the Foundation, the Distributor or any 
of their respective affiliates, and may not always be transferrable or liquid;
• does not represent or confer on the token holder any right of any form with respect to 
the Foundation, the Distributor (or any of their respective affiliates), or its revenues or 
assets, including without limitation any right to receive future dividends, revenue, shares, 
ownership right or stake, share or security, any voting, distribution, redemption, liqui -
dation, proprietary (including all forms of intellectual property or license rights), right to 
receive accounts, financial statements or other financial data, the right to requisition or 
participate in shareholder meetings, the right to nominate a director, or other financial 
or legal rights or equivalent rights, or intellectual property rights or any other form of 
participation in or relating to World Network, the Foundation, the Distributor and/or 
their service providers;
• does not entitle token holders to any promise of fees, dividends, revenue, profits or invest-
ment returns, and are not intended to constitute securities in any relevant jurisdiction;
• is not intended to represent any rights under a contract for differences or under any other 
contract the purpose or pretended purpose of which is to secure a profit or avoid a loss;
• may not be exchangeable against the good or service described herein, especially in case 
of failure or discontinuation of World;
• is not intended to be a representation of money (including electronic money), security, 
commodity, bond, debt instrument, unit in a collective investment scheme or any other 
kind of financial instrument or investment;
• is not a loan to the Foundation, the Distributor or any of their respective affiliates, is 
not intended to represent a debt owed by the Foundation, the Distributor or any of their 
respective affiliates, and there is no expectation of profit; and
• does not provide the token holder with any ownership or other interest in the Foundation, 
the Distributor or any of their respective affiliates.

5.6. Informational Purposes Only
The project roadmap in the Whitepaper is being shared in order to outline the current 
status of World as well as some of the plans of World Network and is provided solely for 
informational purposes and does not constitute any binding commitment. Please do not rely 
on this information in making purchasing decisions because ultimately, further development, 
release, and timing of any products, features or functionality remains at the sole discretion of 
the Foundation, the Distributor or their respective affiliates, and is subject to change. Further, 
the Whitepaper or the Website may be amended or replaced from time to time. There are no 
obligations to update the Whitepaper or the Website, or to provide recipients with access to 
any information beyond what is provided herein.
5.7. Regulatory Approval
No regulatory authority has examined or approved, whether formally or informally, of any of 
the information set out in the Whitepaper or the Website. No such action or assurance has 
been or will be taken under the laws, regulatory requirements or rules of any jurisdiction. The 
publication, distribution or dissemination of the Whitepaper or the Website does not imply 
that the applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been complied with. World is 
solely responsible for the content of this Whitepaper. This Whitepaper has not been reviewed 
or approved by any competent authority in any Member State of the European Union.
5.8. Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements
All statements contained herein, statements made in press releases or in any place accessible 
by the public and oral statements that may be made by the Foundation, the Distributor and/
or World Network, may constitute forward-looking statements (including statements regarding 
intent, belief or current expectations with respect to market conditions, business strategy and 
plans, financial condition, specific provisions and risk management practices). You are cautioned 
not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements given that these statements 
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual 
future results to be materially different from that described by such forward-looking statements, 
and no independent third party has reviewed the reasonableness of any such statements or 
assumptions. These forward-looking statements are applicable only as of the date indicated 
in the Whitepaper, and the Foundation, the Distributor as well as World Network expressly 
disclaim any responsibility (whether express or implied) to release any revisions to these 
forward-looking statements to reflect events after such date.
5.9. English Language
The Whitepaper and the Website may be translated into a language other than English for 
reference purpose only and in the event of conflict or ambiguity between the English language 
version and translated versions of the Whitepaper or the Website, the English language versions 
shall prevail. You acknowledge that you have read and understood the English language version 
of the Whitepaper and the Website.