Practical Rateless Set Reconciliation
Lei Yang
leiy@csail.mit.edu
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, MA, USA
Yossi Gilad
yossigi@cs.huji.ac.il
Hebrew University of Jerusalem
Jerusalem, Israel
Mohammad Alizadeh
alizadeh@csail.mit.edu
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, MA, USA
Abstract
Set reconciliation, where two parties hold fixed-length bit strings
and run a protocol to learn the strings they are missing from
each other, is a fundamental task in many distributed systems. We
present Rateless Invertible Bloom Lookup Tables (Rateless IBLTs),
the first set reconciliation protocol, to the best of our knowledge,
that achieves low computation cost and near-optimal communica-
tion cost across a wide range of scenarios: set differences of one
to millions, bit strings of a few bytes to megabytes, and workloads
injected by potential adversaries. Rateless IBLT is based on a novel
encoder that incrementally encodes the set difference into an infi-
nite stream of coded symbols, resembling rateless error-correcting
codes. We compare Rateless IBLT with state-of-the-art set reconcili-
ation schemes and demonstrate significant improvements. Rateless
IBLT achieves 3–4× lower communication cost than non-rateless
schemes with similar computation cost, and 2–2000× lower compu-
tation cost than schemes with similar communication cost. We show
the real-world benefits of Rateless IBLT by applying it to synchro-
nize the state of the Ethereum blockchain, and demonstrate 5.6×
lower end-to-end completion time and 4.4× lower communication
cost compared to the system used in production.
CCS Concepts
• Networks→ Application layer protocols; Network algorithms;
Network protocol design; • Mathematics of computing→ Coding
theory; • Computer systems organization→ Dependable and
fault-tolerant systems and networks .
Keywords
Set Reconciliation, Rateless Codes, Universal Codes, Data Synchro-
nization, Randomized Algorithms
ACM Reference Format:
Lei Yang, Yossi Gilad, and Mohammad Alizadeh. 2024. Practical Rateless
Set Reconciliation. In ACM SIGCOMM 2024 Conference (ACM SIGCOMM
’24), August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia. ACM, New York, NY, USA,
18 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3651890.3672219
1 Introduction
Recent years have seen growing interest in distributed applica-
tions, such as blockchains [1, 22, 37], social networks [26], mesh
messaging [25], and file hosting [35]. In these applications, nodes
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored.
For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).
ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0614-1/24/08
https://doi.org/10.1145/3651890.3672219
(participating servers) maintain replicas of the entire or part of
the application state, and synchronize their replicas by exchanging
messages on a peer-to-peer network.
The naive approach to solving this problem requires communica-
tion proportional to the size of the set one party holds. For example,
some applications send the entire set while other applications have
parties exchange the hashes of their items or a Bloom filter of their
sets (the Bloom filter’s size is proportional to the set size). A node
then requests the items it is missing. All these solutions induce high
overhead, especially when nodes have large, overlapping sets. This
is a common scenario in distributed applications, such as nodes in
a blockchain network synchronizing transactions or account bal-
ances, social media servers synchronizing users’ posts, or a name
system synchronizing certificates or revocation lists [33].
An emerging alternative solution to the state synchronization
problem is set reconciliation. It abstracts the application’s state as a
set and then uses a reconciliation protocol to synchronize replicas.
Crucially, the overhead is determined by the set difference size
rather than the set size, allowing support for applications with very
large states. However, existing set reconciliation protocols suffer
from at least one of two major caveats. First, most protocols are
parameterized by the size of the set difference between the two
participating parties. However, in practice, setting this parameter is
difficult since scenarios such as temporal network disconnections
or fluctuating load on the system make it challenging to know what
the exact difference size will be ahead of time. Thus, application
designers often resort to running online estimation protocols, which
induce additional latency and only give a statistical estimate of
the set difference size. Such estimators are inaccurate, forcing the
application designers to tailor the parameters to the tail of the
potential error, resulting in high communication overhead. The
second type of caveat is that some set reconciliation protocols
suffer from high decoding complexity, where the recipient has to
run a quadratic-time or worse algorithm, with relatively expensive
operations.
We propose a rateless set reconciliation scheme called Rateless
Invertible Bloom Lookup Tables (Rateless IBLT) that addresses these
challenges. In Rateless IBLT, a sender generates an infinite stream of
coded symbols that encode the set difference, and the recipient can
decode the set difference when they receive enough coded symbols.
Rateless IBLT has no parameters and does not need an estimate of
the set difference size. With overwhelming probability, the recipient
can decode the set difference after receiving a number of coded
symbols that are proportional to the set difference size rather than
the entire set size, resulting in low overhead. Rateless IBLT’s coded
symbols are universal. The same sequence of coded symbols can
be used to reconcile any number of differences with any other set.
Therefore, the sender can create coded symbols once and use them
to synchronize with any number of peers. The latter property is
arXiv:2402.02668v3  [cs.DC]  19 Jun 2024

ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia Lei Yang, Yossi Gilad, and Mohammad Alizadeh
particularly useful for applications such as blockchain peer-to-peer
networks, where nodes may synchronize with multiple sources
with overlapping states, since it allows the node to recover the
union of their states using coded symbols it concurrently receives
from all of them.
In summary, we make the following contributions:
(1) The design of Rateless IBLT, the first set reconciliation pro-
tocol that achieves low computation cost and near-optimal
communication cost across a wide range of scenarios: set
differences of one to millions, bit strings of a few bytes to
megabytes, and workloads injected by potential adversaries.
(2) A mathematical analysis of Rateless IBLT’s communication
and computation costs. We prove that when the set difference
size𝑑 goes to infinity, Rateless IBLT reconciles𝑑 differences
with 1.35𝑑 communication. We show in simulations that the
communication cost is between1.35𝑑 to 1.72𝑑 on average for
all values of𝑑 and that it quickly converges to 1.35× when
𝑑 is in the low hundreds.
(3) An implementation of Rateless IBLT as a library. When rec-
onciling 1000 differences, our implementation can process
input data (sets being reconciled) at 120 MB/s using a single
core of a 2016-model CPU.
(4) Extensive experiments comparing Rateless IBLT with state-
of-the-art solutions. Rateless IBLT achieves 3–4× lower com-
munication cost than regular IBLT [13] and MET-IBLT [16],
two non-rateless schemes; and 2–2000× lower computation
cost than PinSketch [7].
(5) Demonstration of Rateless IBLT’s real-world benefits by ap-
plying our implementation to synchronize the account states
of the Ethereum blockchain. Compared to Merkle trie [39],
today’s de facto solution, Rateless IBLT achieves 5.6× lower
completion time and 4.4× lower communication cost on his-
toric traces.
2 Motivation and Related Work
We first formally define the set reconciliation problem [8, 19]. Let𝐴
and𝐵 be two sets containing items (bit strings) of the same length
ℓ.𝐴 and𝐵 are stored by two distinct parties, Alice and Bob. They
want to efficiently compute the symmetric difference of𝐴 and𝐵,
i.e.,(𝐴∪𝐵)\( 𝐴∩𝐵), denoted as 𝐴△𝐵. By convention [ 8], we
assume that only one of the parties, Bob, wants to compute𝐴△𝐵
because he can send the result to Alice afterward if needed.
While straightforward solutions exist, such as exchanging Bloom
filters [3] or hashes of the items, they incur𝑂(|𝐴|+| 𝐵|) commu-
nication and computation costs. The costs can be improved to log-
arithmic by hashing the sets into Merkle tries [ 39], where a trie
node on depth 𝑖 is the hash of a  1/2𝑖-fraction of the set. Alice
and Bob traverse and compare their tries, only descending into a
sub-trie (subset) if their roots (hashes) differ. However, the costs
are still dependent on|𝐴|,|𝐵|, and now takes𝑂(log|𝐴|+ log|𝐵|)
round trips.
In contrast, the information-theoretic lower bound [19, § 2] of
the communication cost is𝑑ℓ , where𝑑 =|𝐴△𝐵|.1 State-of-the-art
solutions get close to this lower bound using techniques from coding
1More precisely, the lower bound is𝑑ℓ−𝑑 log2𝑑 [19, § 2], but the second term can
be neglected when𝑑≪ 2ℓ .
theory. On a high level, we can view𝐵 as a copy of𝐴 with𝑑 errors
(insertions and/or deletions), and the goal of set reconciliation
is to correct these errors. Alice encodes 𝐴 into a list of 𝑚 coded
symbols and sends them to Bob. Bob then uses the coded symbols
and𝐵 to decode𝐴△𝐵. The coded symbols are the parity data in a
systematic error-correcting code that can correct set insertions and
deletions [21]. Using appropriate codes, it takes𝑚 =𝑂(𝑑) coded
symbols, each of length𝑂(ℓ), to correct the𝑑 errors, resulting in a
communication cost of𝑂(𝑑ℓ).
The performance of existing solutions varies depending on the
codes they use. Characteristic Polynomial Interpolation (CPI) [19]
uses a variant of Reed-Solomon codes [27], where coded symbols
are evaluations of a polynomial uniquely constructed from𝐴. CPI
has a communication cost of𝑑ℓ , achieving the information-theoretic
lower bound. However, its computation cost is𝑂(|𝐴|𝑑ℓ) for Alice,
and𝑂(|𝐵|𝑑ℓ+𝑑3ℓ4) for Bob. The latter was improved to𝑂(|𝐵|𝑑ℓ+
𝑑2ℓ2) in PinSketch [7, 38] using BCH codes [4] that are easier to
decode. Nevertheless, as we show in § 7.2, computation on both
Alice and Bob quickly becomes intractable even at moderate|𝐴|,|𝐵|,
and𝑑, limiting its applicability. For example, Shrec [14] attempted
to use PinSketch to synchronize transactions in a high-throughput
blockchain but found that its high computation complexity severely
limits system throughput [14, § 5.2].
Invertible Bloom Lookup Tables (IBLTs) [13] use sparse graph
codes similar to LT [ 17] and LDPC [ 9] codes. Each set item is
summed into𝑘 coded symbols, denoted as its neighbors in a ran-
dom, sparse graph. Some variants also consider graphs with richer
structures such as varying𝑘 depending on the set item [15]. The
computation cost is𝑂(|𝐴|𝑘ℓ) for Alice, and𝑂((|𝐵|+ 𝑑)𝑘ℓ) for Bob.
The communication cost is𝑂(𝑑ℓ) with a coefficient strictly larger
than 1 (e.g., 4–10 for small𝑑, see § 7.1). Due to their random nature,
IBLTs may fail to decode even if properly parameterized [8]. We
provide more background on IBLTs in § 3.
The aforementioned discussions assume that the codes are prop-
erly parameterized. In particular, we need to decide𝑚, the number
of coded symbols Alice sends to Bob. Decoding will fail if 𝑚 is
too small compared to𝑑, and we incur redundant communication
and computation if𝑚 is too large. The optimal choice of𝑚 is thus
a function of𝑑. However, accurate prediction of𝑑 is usually dif-
ficult [14, 23], and sometimes outright impossible [ 24]. Existing
systems often resort to online estimation protocols [8] and over-
provision𝑚 to accommodate the ensuing errors [8, 24].
The case for rateless reconciliation. A key feature of Rateless
IBLT is that it can generate an infinite stream of coded symbols for
a set, resembling rateless error-correcting codes [5]. For any𝑚 > 0,
the first𝑚 coded symbols can reconcile𝑂(𝑚) set differences with
a coefficient close to 1 (0.74 in most cases, see § 7.1). This means
that Rateless IBLT does not require parameterization, making real-
world deployments easy and robust. Alice simply keeps sending
coded symbols to Bob, and Bob can decode as soon as he receives
enough—which we show analytically (§ 5) and experimentally (§ 7.1)
to be about 1.35𝑑 in most cases—coded symbols. Neither Alice nor
Bob needs to know𝑑 beforehand. The encoding and the decoding
algorithms have zero parameters.
The concept of incrementally generating coded symbols is first
mentioned in CPI [19]. However, as mentioned before, its real-world

Practical Rateless Set Reconciliation ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia
use has been limited due to the high computation cost. We discuss
these limitations in § 7, and demonstrate that Rateless IBLT reduces
the computation cost by 2–2000×, while incurring a communica-
tion cost of less than 2× the information-theoretic lower bound.
Concurrently with our work, MET-IBLT [16] proposes to simulta-
neously optimize the parameters of IBLTs for multiple pre-selected
values of𝑑, e.g.,𝑑1,𝑑 2,...,𝑑 𝑛, such that a list of coded symbols for
𝑑𝑖 is a prefix/suffix of that for𝑑𝑗 . However, it only considers a few
values of𝑑 due to the complexity of the optimization so still re-
quires workload-dependent parameterization. As we show in § 7.1,
its communication cost is 4–10× higher for the𝑑 values that are not
optimized for. In addition, MET-IBLT does not provide a practical
algorithm to incrementally generate coded symbols. Rateless IBLT
does not have any of these issues.
Rateless IBLT offers additional benefits. Imagine that Alice has
the canonical system state, and multiple peers wish to reconcile
their states with Alice. In a non-rateless scheme, Alice must sep-
arately produce coded symbols for each peer depending on the
particular number of differences𝑑. This incurs additional compu-
tation and storage I/Os for every peer she reconciles with. And,
more importantly, Alice must produce the coded symbols on the
fly because she does not know 𝑑 before a peer arrives. In com-
parison, using Rateless IBLT, Alice simply maintains a universal
sequence of coded symbols and streams it to anyone who wishes to
reconcile. Rateless IBLT also allows her to incrementally update the
coded symbols as she modifies the state (set), further amortizing
the encoding costs.
To the best of our knowledge, Rateless IBLT is the first set rec-
onciliation solution that simultaneously achieves the following
properties:
• Ratelessness. The encoder generates an infinite sequence
of coded symbols, capable of reconciling any number of
differences𝑑 with low overhead.
• Universality. The same algorithm works efficiently for any
|𝐴|,|𝐵|,𝑑, andℓ without any parameter.
• Low communication cost. The average communication
cost peaks at 1.72𝑑ℓ when𝑑 = 4, and quickly converges to
1.35𝑑ℓ when𝑑 is at the low hundreds.
• Low computation cost. Encoding costs𝑂(ℓ log𝑑) per set
item, and decoding costs𝑂(ℓ log𝑑) per difference. In practice,
a single core on a 2016-model CPU can encode (decode) 3.4
million items (differences) per second when 𝑑 = 1000 and
ℓ = 8 bytes.
We demonstrate these advantages by comparing with all the afore-
mentioned schemes in § 7 and applying Rateless IBLT to a potential
application in § 7.3.
3 Background
Our Rateless IBLT retains the format of coded symbols and the
decoding algorithm of regular IBLTs, but employs a new encoder
that is oblivious to the number of differences to reconcile. In this
section, we provide the necessary background on IBLTs [8, 13] and
explain why regular IBLTs fail to provide the rateless property that
we desire. We discuss the new rateless encoder in the next section.
On a high level, an IBLT is an encoding of a set. We call the items
(bit strings) in the set the source symbols, and an IBLT comprises a
𝐴 𝑥0 𝑥1 𝑥2 𝑥3
IBLT(𝐴) 𝑎0 𝑎1 𝑎2 𝑎3 𝑎4 𝑎5
Figure 1: Example of constructing a regular IBLT for set 𝐴
with source symbols 𝑥0,𝑥 1,𝑥 2,𝑥 3. The IBLT has 𝑚 = 6 coded
symbols:𝑎0,𝑎 1,𝑎 2,𝑎 3,𝑎 4,𝑎 5. Each source symbol is mapped
to𝑘 = 3 coded symbols. Solid lines represent the mapping
between source and coded symbols. For example, for𝑎4, sum =
𝑥1⊕𝑥3, checksum = Hash(𝑥1)⊕ Hash(𝑥3), and count = 2.⊕ is
the bitwise exclusive-or operator.
(a) Iteration 1 (b) Iteration 2 (c) Iteration 3
Figure 2: Example of decoding the IBLT in Fig. 1 using peel-
ing. Dark colors represent pure coded symbols at the begin-
ning of each iteration, and source symbols recovered so far.
Dashed edges are removed at the end of each iteration, by
XOR-ing the source symbol (now recovered) and its hash on
one end of the edge into the sum and checksum fields of the
coded symbol on the other end.
list of𝑚 coded symbols. Each source symbol is mapped to𝑘 coded
symbols uniformly at random, e.g., by using𝑘 hash functions. Here,
𝑚 and𝑘 are design parameters.
Coded symbol format. A coded symbol contains two fields: sum,
the bitwise exclusive-or (XOR) sum of the source symbols mapped to
it; and checksum, the bitwise XOR sum of the hashes of the source
symbols mapped to it. In practice, there is usually a third field,
count, which we will discuss shortly. Fig. 1 provides an example.
Peeling decoder. To recover source symbols from a list of coded
symbols, the decoder runs a recursive procedure called “peeling”.
We say a coded symbol is pure when exactly one source symbol is
mapped to it; or, equivalently, when its checksum equals the hash
of its sum [8].2 In this case, its sum field is the source symbol itself,
which is now recovered. The decoder then removes the recovered
source symbol from any other coded symbols it is mapped to (de-
termined by the𝑘 agreed-upon hash functions), by XOR-ing the
source symbol and its hash into their sum and checksum fields, re-
spectively. This process may generate additional pure symbols; the
decoder repeats until no pure symbols are left. Decoding fails if it
stops before recovering all source symbols [13]. Fig. 2 shows the
example of decoding the IBLT in Fig. 1.
Subtraction of coded symbols. 𝑎⊕𝑏 denotes subtraction of two
coded symbols𝑎,𝑏 . For the resulting coded symbol, its sum is the
2Unless there is a hash collision, which happens with negligible probability in the
length of the hash. See § 4.3.

ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia Lei Yang, Yossi Gilad, and Mohammad Alizadeh
bitwise XOR of𝑎.sum and𝑏.sum; its checksum is the bitwise XOR of
𝑎.checksum and𝑏.checksum; and its count is𝑎.count−𝑏.count.
Set reconciliation using IBLTs. IBLTs with the same parame-
ter configuration (𝑚,𝑘, and hash functions mapping from source
symbols to coded symbols) can be subtracted [8]. For any two sets
𝐴 and 𝐵, IBLT(𝐴)⊕ IBLT(𝐵) = IBLT(𝐴△ 𝐵), where the ⊕ op-
erator subtracts each corresponding pair of coded symbols from
the two IBLTs. This is because if a source symbol is present in
both𝐴 and𝐵, then it is XOR-ed twice into each coded symbol it
is mapped to in IBLT(𝐴)⊕ IBLT(𝐵), resulting in no effect. As a
result, IBLT(𝐴)⊕ IBLT(𝐵) is an encoding of the source symbols
that appear exactly once across𝐴 and𝐵, i.e.,𝐴△𝐵.
To reconcile𝐴 and𝐵, Alice sends IBLT(𝐴) to Bob, who then
computes and decodes IBLT(𝐴)⊕ IBLT(𝐵) to recover𝐴△𝐵. To
determine whether a recovered source symbol belongs to𝐴 or𝐵,
we use the count field.3 It records the number of source symbols
mapped to a coded symbol. When a coded symbol is pure,count = 1
indicates that the recovered source symbol is exclusive to𝐴, and
count =−1 indicates𝐵 [8].
Limitations of IBLTs. IBLTs are not rateless. An IBLT with a
particular set of parameters𝑚,𝑘 only works for a narrow range of
difference size𝑑. It quickly becomes inefficient to use it for more
or fewer differences than parameterized for. In § A, we show The-
orems A.1 and A.2, which we summarize informally here. First,
with high probability, Bob cannot recover any source symbol in
𝐴△𝐵 when𝑑 >𝑚, making undersized IBLTs completely useless.
On the other hand, we cannot simply default to a very large𝑚 to
accommodate a potentially large𝑑. If𝑑 turns out to be small, i.e.,
𝑑 ≪ 𝑚, Alice still has to send almost the entire IBLT ( 𝑚 coded
symbols) for Bob to decode successfully, leading to high communi-
cation cost. Alice cannot dynamically enlarge𝑚, either. Each source
symbol is already uniformly mapped to𝑘 out of𝑚 coded symbols
upon encoding. Increasing𝑚 post hoc would require remapping
the source symbols to the expanded space of coded symbols so that
the mapping remains uniform. This requires Alice to rebuild and
re-send the entire IBLT. Figs. 3a, 3b show an example.
4 Design
For any set𝑆, Rateless IBLT defines an infinite sequence of coded
symbols. Intuitively, an infinite number of coded symbols for 𝐴
and𝐵 allows Rateless IBLT to accommodate an arbitrarily large set
difference. Every prefix of this infinite sequence functions like a
normal IBLT and can reconcile a number of differences proportional
to its length. Meanwhile, because these prefixes belong to a common
infinite sequence, Alice simply streams the sequence until Bob
receives a long enough prefix to decode. For any𝑑 > 0, on average,
reconciling𝑑 differences requires only the first 1.35𝑑–1.72𝑑 coded
symbols in the sequence.
4.1 Coded Symbol Sequence
Our main task is to design the algorithm that encodes any set 𝑆
into an infinite sequence of coded symbols, denoted as𝑠0,𝑠 1,𝑠 2,... .
It should provide the following properties:
3Alternatively, Bob may try looking up each item in𝐴△𝐵 against𝐵, but this requires
indexing𝐵, which is undesirable when|𝐵| is large.
𝐴△𝐵
IBLT
(a) Regular IBLT,𝑚 = 4 (b) Regular IBLT,𝑚 = 7
𝐴△𝐵
Rateless IBLT
(c) Rateless IBLT, prefix of𝑚 = 4 (d) Rateless IBLT, prefix of𝑚 = 7
Figure 3: Regular IBLTs and prefixes of Rateless IBLT for 5
source symbols. Figs. a, c (left) have too few coded symbols
and are undecodable. Figs. b, d (right) are decodable. Red
edges are common across each row. Dark coded symbols in
Figs. b, d are new or changed compared to their counterparts
in Figs. a, c. Imagine that Alice sends 4 coded symbols but
Bob fails to decode. In regular IBLT, in order to enlarge𝑚, she
has to send all 7 coded symbols since the existing 4 symbols
also changed. In Rateless IBLT, she only needs to send the 3
new symbols. The existing 4 symbols stay the same.
• Decodability. With high probability, the peeling decoder
can recover all source symbols in a set 𝑆 using a prefix of
𝑠0,𝑠 1,𝑠 2,... with length𝑂(|𝑆|).
• Linearity. For any sets𝐴 and𝐵,𝑎0⊕𝑏0,𝑎 1⊕𝑏1,𝑎 2⊕𝑏2,...
is the coded symbol sequence for𝐴△𝐵.
• Universality. The encoding algorithm does not need any
extra information other than the set being encoded.
These properties allow us to build the following simple protocol
for rateless reconciliation. To reconcile𝐴 and𝐵, Alice incrementally
sends𝑎0,𝑎 1,𝑎 2,... to Bob. Bob computes𝑎0⊕𝑏0,𝑎 1⊕𝑏1,𝑎 2⊕𝑏2,... ,
and tries to decode these symbols using the peeling decoder. Bob
notifies Alice to stop when he has recovered all source symbols in
𝐴△𝐵. As we will soon show, the first symbol𝑎0⊕𝑏0 in Rateless
IBLT is decoded only after all source symbols are recovered. This
is the indicator for Bob to terminate.
Linearity guarantees that𝑎0⊕𝑏0,𝑎 1⊕𝑏1,𝑎 2⊕𝑏2,... is the coded
symbol sequence for𝐴△𝐵. Decodability guarantees that Bob can
decode after receiving𝑂(|𝐴△𝐵|) coded symbols and recover all
source symbols in𝐴△𝐵. Universality guarantees that Alice and
Bob do not need any prior context to run the protocol.
If Alice regularly reconciles with multiple peers, she may cache
coded symbols for 𝐴 to avoid recomputing them every session.
Universality implies that Alice can reuse the same cached symbols
across different peers. Linearity implies that if she updates her set
𝐴, she can incrementally update the cached symbols by treating
the updates𝐴△𝐴′ as a set and subtracting its coded symbols from
the cached ones for𝐴.
We now discuss how we design an encoding algorithm that
satisfies the three properties we set to achieve.
4.1.1 Linearity & Universality. Our key observation is that to en-
sure linearity, it is sufficient to define a consistent mapping rule,
which, given any source symbol𝑥∈{ 0, 1}∗ and any index𝑖≥ 0,
deterministically decides whether𝑥 should be mapped to the𝑖-th

Practical Rateless Set Reconciliation ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia
coded symbol when encoding a set that contains𝑥. This ensures
that if𝑥∈𝐴∩𝐵, then it will be mapped to both𝑎𝑖 and𝑏𝑖 or nei-
ther; in either case,𝑥 will not be reflected in𝑎𝑖⊕𝑏𝑖. On the other
hand, if𝑥∈𝐴△𝐵, and𝑥 should be mapped to index𝑖 according
to the rule, then it will be mapped to exactly one of𝑎𝑖 or𝑏𝑖, and
therefore will be reflected in𝑎𝑖⊕𝑏𝑖. Since the mapping rule makes
decisions based only on𝑥 and𝑖, the resulting encoding algorithm
also satisfies universality.
4.1.2 Decodability. Whether the peeling decoder can recover all
source symbols from a set of coded symbols is fully determined by
the mapping between the source and the coded symbols. Let𝜌(𝑖)
be the probability that a random source symbol maps to the 𝑖-th
coded symbol, which we refer to as the mapping probability. It is
the key property that defines the behavior of a mapping rule. In the
remainder of this subsection, we constrain𝜌(𝑖) by examining two
necessary conditions for peeling to succeed. Our key conclusion
is that in order for decodability to hold, 𝜌(𝑖) must be inversely
proportional to𝑖. This rejects most functions as candidates of𝜌(𝑖)
and leads us to a concrete instantiation of 𝜌(𝑖). We will design
a concrete algorithm (mapping rule) that realizes the mapping
probability in the next subsection, and mathematically prove that
it satisfies decodability in § 5.
First, to kick-start the peeling decoder, there must be a coded
symbol with exactly one source symbol mapped to it (a pure coded
symbol). For a set𝑆 and index𝑖, the probability that this happens
decreases quasi-exponentially in𝜌(𝑖)|𝑆|. This implies that𝜌(𝑖) must
decrease quickly with𝑖. Otherwise, each of the first𝑂(|𝑆|) coded
symbols would have an exponentially small probability of being
pure, and it would be likely that none of them is pure, violating
decodability.
The following lemma shows that for this reason, the mapping
probability𝜌(𝑖) cannot decrease slower than1/𝑖1−𝜖 for any positive
𝜖, i.e., almost inversely proportional to𝑖. We defer the proof to § C.
Lemma 4.1. For any 𝜖 > 0, any mapping probability 𝜌(𝑖) such
that𝜌(𝑖) = Ω  1/𝑖1−𝜖, and any 𝜎 > 0, if there exists at least one
pure coded symbol within the first 𝑚 coded symbols for a random set
𝑆 with probability𝜎, then𝑚 =𝜔(|𝑆|).
Second, to recover all source symbols in a set𝑆, we need at least
|𝑆| non-empty coded symbols. This is because during peeling, each
pure symbol (which must be non-empty) yields at most one source
symbol. Intuitively,𝜌(𝑖) cannot decrease too fast with index𝑖. Oth-
erwise, the probability that a coded symbol is empty would quickly
grow towards 1 as𝑖 increases. The first𝑂(|𝑆|) coded symbols would
not reliably contain at least|𝑆| non-empty symbols, violating de-
codability.
The following lemma shows that for this reason, the mapping
probability𝜌(𝑖) cannot decrease faster than 1/𝑖. We defer the proof
to § C.
Lemma 4.2. For any mapping probability 𝜌(𝑖) such that 𝜌(𝑖) =
𝑜(1/𝑖), and any 𝜎 > 0, if there exist at least |𝑆| non-empty coded
symbols within the first 𝑚 coded symbols for a random set 𝑆 with
probability𝜎, then𝑚 =𝜔(|𝑆|).
The constraints above reject functions that decrease faster than
1/𝑖, as well as functions that decrease slower than𝑖𝜖/𝑖 for any𝜖 > 0.
For simplicity, we ignore the degree of freedom stemming from
the𝑖𝜖 factor since for a sufficiently small𝜖 and any practical𝑖, it
is very close to 1. The remaining candidates for𝜌(𝑖) are the ones
in between, i.e., functions of order 1/𝑖. We choose the simplest
function in this class:
𝜌(𝑖) = 1
1+𝛼𝑖, (1)
where𝛼 > 0 is a parameter. We shift the denominator by1 because𝑖
starts at 0. In § 5, we prove that this𝜌(𝑖) achieves decodability with
high efficiency: recovering a set𝑆 only requires the first 1.35|𝑆|–
1.72|𝑆| coded symbols on average.
We highlight two interesting properties of our𝜌(𝑖). First,𝜌(0) =
1. This means that for any set, every source symbol is mapped to
the first coded symbol. This coded symbol is only decoded after
all source symbols are recovered. So, Bob can tell whether recon-
ciliation has finished by checking if 𝑎0⊕𝑏0 is decoded. Second,
among the first𝑚 indices, a source symbol is mapped to˝𝑚−1
𝑖=0 𝜌(𝑖)
of them on average, or𝑂(log𝑚). It means that the density of the
mapping, which decides the computation cost of encoding and de-
coding, decreases quickly as𝑚 increases. As we will show in § 7.2,
the low density allows Rateless IBLT to achieve 2–2000× higher
throughput than PinSketch.
4.2 Realizing the Mapping Probability
We now design an efficient deterministic algorithm for mapping
a source symbol 𝑠 to coded symbols that achieves the mapping
probability rule identified in the previous section.
Recall that for a random source symbol𝑠, we want to make the
probability that𝑠 is mapped to the𝑖-th coded symbol to be𝜌(𝑖) in
Eq. 1. A simple strawman solution, for example, is to use a hash
function that, given𝑠, outputs a hash value uniformly distributed
in[0, 1). We then compare the hash value to 𝜌(𝑖), and decide to
map𝑠 to the𝑖-th coded symbol if the hash value is smaller. Given a
random𝑠, because its hash value distributes uniformly, the mapping
happens with probability𝜌(𝑖).
However, this approach has major issues. First, it requires com-
paring hash values and𝜌(𝑖) for every pair of source symbol𝑠 and
index𝑖. As mentioned in § 4.1.2, the density of the mapping is
𝑂(log𝑚) for the first𝑚 coded symbols. In contrast, generating the
𝑚 coded symbols using this algorithm would require𝑚 comparisons
for each source symbol, significantly inflating the computation cost.
Another issue is that we cannot use the same hash function when
mapping𝑠 to different indices𝑖 and 𝑗. Otherwise, the mappings to
them would not be independent: if𝜌(𝑖) <𝜌(𝑗) and𝑠 is mapped to
𝑖, then it will always be mapped to 𝑗. Using different, independent
hash functions when mapping the same source symbol to different
indices means that we also need to hash the symbol𝑚 times.
We design an algorithm that maps each source symbol to the first
𝑚 coded symbols using only𝑂(log𝑚) computation. The strawman
solution is inefficient because we roll a dice (compare hash and
𝜌(𝑖)) for every index𝑖, even though we end up not mapping𝑠 to
the majority of them (𝑚−𝑂(log𝑚) out of𝑚), so reaching the next
mapped index takes many dice rolls (𝑚/𝑂(log𝑚) on average). Our
key idea is to directly sample the distance (number of indices) to
skip before reaching the next mapped index. We achieve it with

ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia Lei Yang, Yossi Gilad, and Mohammad Alizadeh
constant cost per sample, so we can jump from one mapped index
straight to the next in constant time.
We describe our algorithm recursively. Suppose that, according
to our algorithm, a source symbol𝑠 has been mapped to the𝑖-th
coded symbol. We now wish to compute, in constant time, the next
index 𝑗 that𝑠 is mapped to. Let𝐺 be the random variable such that
𝑗−𝑖 =𝐺 for a random𝑠, and let𝑃𝑔 (𝑔≥ 1) be the probability that
𝐺 =𝑔. In other words,𝑃𝑔 is the probability that a random𝑠 is not
mapped to any of𝑖+ 1,𝑖+ 2,...,𝑖 +𝑔− 1, but is mapped to𝑖+𝑔,
which are all independent events. So,
𝑃𝑔 =(1−𝜌(𝑖+ 1))( 1−𝜌(𝑖+ 2))... (1−𝜌(𝑖+𝑔− 1))𝜌(𝑖+𝑔).
Generating 𝑗 is then equivalent to sampling𝑔←𝐺, whose distri-
bution is described by𝑃𝑔, and then computing 𝑗 =𝑖+𝑔.
However, since there are𝑔 (which can go to infinity) terms in
𝑃𝑔, it is still unclear how to sample 𝐺 in constant time. The key
observation is that the cumulative mass function of𝐺, denoted as
𝐶(𝑥), has a remarkably simple form. In particular,
𝐶(𝑥) =
𝑥∑︁
𝑔=1
𝑃𝑔 = 1−
Γ(𝑖+ 1+ 1
𝛼)Γ(𝑥+𝑖+ 1)
Γ(𝑖+ 1)Γ(𝑥+𝑖+ 1+ 1
𝛼)
. (2)
We defer the step-by-step derivation to § B.
Let𝐶−1(𝑟) be the inverse of 𝐶(𝑥). The simple form of 𝐶(𝑥)
allows us to compute𝐶−1(𝑟) easily, which we will soon explain.
To sample𝐺, we sample𝑟←[ 0, 1) uniformly, and compute𝑔 =
⌈𝐶−1(𝑟)⌉. To make the algorithm deterministic,𝑟 may come from a
pseudorandom number generator seeded with the source symbol𝑠.
The algorithm outputs𝑖+𝑔 as the next index to which𝑠 is mapped,
updates𝑖←𝑖+𝑔, and is ready to produce another index. Because
every source symbol is mapped to the first coded symbol (recall
that𝜌(0) = 1), we start the recursion with𝑖 = 0.
Finally, we explain how to compute𝐶−1(𝑟). It is the most simple
if we set the parameter𝛼 in𝜌(𝑖) to 0.5. Plugging𝛼 = 0.5 into Eq. 2,
we get
𝐶(𝑥) = 𝑥(2𝑖+𝑥+ 3)
(𝑖+𝑥+ 1)(𝑖+𝑥+ 2).
Its inverse is
𝐶−1(𝑟) =
√︄
(3+ 2𝑖)2−𝑟
4(1−𝑟) − 3+ 2𝑖
2
≈( 1.5+𝑖)(( 1−𝑟)− 1
2− 1).
For a generic𝛼, we can use Stirling’s approximation [30], and get
𝐶(𝑥)≈ 1−
 𝑖+ 1
𝑥+𝑖+ 1
 1
𝛼
.
Consequently,
𝐶−1(𝑟)≈( 𝑖+ 1)(( 1−𝑟)−𝛼− 1).
In our final design, we set 𝛼 = 0.5. The main reason is that
computing𝐶−1(𝑟) when𝛼 = 0.5 only requires computing square
roots, while it otherwise involves raising 1−𝑟 to other non-integer
powers. We observe that the latter is significantly slower on older
CPUs. Meanwhile, as we will show in § 5, setting𝛼 = 0.5 results in
negligible extra communication compared to the optimal setting.
4.3 Resistance to Malicious Workload
In some applications, rogue users may inject items to Alice or Bob’s
sets. For example, in a distributed social media application where
servers exchange posts, users can craft any post they like. This
setting may create an “adversarial workload, ” where the hash of the
symbol representing the user’s input does not distribute uniformly.
If the user injects into Bob’s set a source symbol that hashes to the
same value as another source symbol that Alice has, then Bob will
never be able to reconcile its set with Alice. This is because Bob will
XOR the malicious symbol into the coded symbol stream it receives
from Alice, but it will only cancel out the hash of Alice’s colliding
symbol from the checksum field, and will corrupt the sum field.
The literature on set reconciliation is aware of this issue, but
typically does not specify the required properties from the hash
function to mitigate it; most use hash functions with strong proper-
ties such as random oracles [20], which have long outputs (e.g., 256
bits). It is sufficient, however, to use a keyed hash function with
uniform and shorter outputs (e.g., 64 bits). This allows Alice and
Bob to coordinate a secret key and use it to choose a hash func-
tion from the family of keyed hashes. Although with short hashes,
an attacker can computationally enumerate enough symbols to
find a collision for an item that Alice has, the attacker does not
know the key, i.e., the hash function that Alice and Bob use, so
she cannot target a collision to one of Alice’s symbols. This allows
Rateless IBLT to minimize the size of a coded symbol and save
bandwidth, particularly in applications where symbols are short
and checksums account for much of the overhead. In practice, we
use the SipHash [2] keyed hash function. A trade-off we make is
that Alice has to compute the checksums separately for each key
she uses, which increases her computation load. We believe this is
a worthwhile trade-off as SipHash is very efficient, and we find in
experiments (§ 7.2) that computing the hashes has negligible cost
compared to computing sums, which are still universal. Also, we
expect using different keys only in applications where malicious
workload is a concern.
5 Analysis
In this section, we use density evolution [ 18, 28] to analyze the
behavior of the peeling decoder when decoding coded symbols
in Rateless IBLTs. We mathematically prove that as the difference
size𝑑 goes to infinity, the overhead of Rateless IBLTs converges
to 1.35; i.e., reconciling𝑑 differences requires only the first 1.35𝑑
coded symbols. We then use Monte Carlo simulations to show
the behavior for finite𝑑. In particular, we show that the overhead
converges quickly, when𝑑 is at the low hundreds.
Density evolution is a standard technique for analyzing the iter-
ative decoding processes in error correcting codes based on sparse
graphs [18, 28], and has been applied to IBLTs with simpler map-
pings between source and coded symbols [15]. Its high-level idea is
to iteratively compute the probability that a random source symbol
has not been recovered while simulating the peeling decoder statis-
tically. If this probability keeps decreasing towards 0 as the peeling
decoder runs for more iterations, then decoding will succeed with
probability converging to 1 [18, § 2]. The following theorem states
our main conclusion. We defer its proof to § C.

Practical Rateless Set Reconciliation ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia
Theorem 5.1. For a random set of𝑛 source symbols, the probability
that the peeling decoder successfully recovers the set using the first
𝜂𝑛 coded symbols (as defined in § 4.1) tends to 1 as 𝑛 goes to infinity,
provided that𝜂 is any positive constant that satisfies
∀𝑞∈( 0, 1] :𝑒
1
𝛼 Ei

− 𝑞
𝛼𝜂

<𝑞. (3)
Recall that Ei(·) is the exponential integral function;4𝛼 is the
parameter in the mapping probability 𝜌(𝑖) = 1
1+𝛼𝑖 as discussed
in § 4.1. We stated Theorem 5.1 with respect to a generic set of
source symbols and its corresponding coded symbol sequence; in
practice, the set is𝐴△𝐵. The decoder (Bob) knows the coded symbol
sequence for𝐴△𝐵 because he subtracts the coded symbols for𝐵
(generated locally) from those for𝐴 (received from Alice) as defined
in § 3.
Theorem 5.1 implies that for any choice of parameter𝛼, there
exists a corresponding threshold 𝜂∗ which is the smallest 𝜂 that
satisfies Eq. 3. Any𝜂 >𝜂∗ also satisfies Eq. 3 because the left-hand
side monotonically decreases with respect to 𝜂. (Intuitively, this
must be true as a larger𝜂 means more coded symbols, which should
be strictly beneficial for decoding.) As long as Bob receives more
than𝜂∗ coded symbols per source symbol, he can decode with high
probability. In other words,𝜂∗ is the communication overhead of
Rateless IBLTs, i.e., the average number of coded symbols required
to recover each source symbol.𝜂∗ is a function of𝛼. As discussed
in § 4.2, we set𝛼 = 0.5 in our final design to simplify the process
of generating mappings according to𝜌(𝑖). We solve for𝜂∗ when
𝛼 = 0.5 and get the following result.
Corollary 5.2. The average overhead of Rateless IBLTs converges
to 1.35 as the difference size 𝑑 =|𝐴△𝐵| goes to infinity.
5.1 Monte Carlo Simulations
Theorem 5.1 and Corollary 5.2 from the density evolution analysis
state the behavior of Rateless IBLTs when the difference size 𝑑
goes to infinity. To understand the behavior when𝑑 is finite, we
run Monte Carlo simulations, and compare the results with the
theorems.
Fig. 4 shows the main results. It compares the overhead predicted
by Theorem 5.1 and that observed in simulations. First, notice that
as the difference size increases, simulation results converge to the
analysis for all𝛼. How fast the results converge depends on𝛼. For all
𝛼≤ 0.55, convergence happens quickly, and the overhead observed
in simulations stays within 10% of the analysis even for the smallest
difference size we test. On the other hand, for𝛼 = 0.95, simulation
results are still 12% higher than the analysis at the largest difference
size we test. Second, the figure shows that setting𝛼 = 0.5 is close
to optimal for the communication overhead. Setting𝛼 = 0.5 results
in𝜂∗ = 1.35, while the optimal setting is𝛼 = 0.64 which results in
𝜂∗ = 1.31, a difference of only 3%.
Next, we focus on𝛼 = 0.5, the parameter we choose for our final
design. Fig. 5 shows the overhead as we vary the difference size𝑑.
It peaks at 1.72 when𝑑 = 4 and then converges to 1.35 as predicted
by Corollary 5.2. Convergence happens quickly: for all𝑑 > 128, the
overhead is less than 1.40.
4Ei(𝑥) =−
∫∞
−𝑥
𝑒−𝑡𝑑𝑡
𝑡 .
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
102
103
104
105
106
107
DE
Overhead (η*)
Parameter α
Figure 4: Relationship between the communication overhead
𝜂∗ and the parameter 𝛼 in𝜌(𝑖). “DE” shows results from the
density evolution analysis which assumes the difference size
goes to infinity. Points show results from Monte Carlo simu-
lations for various finite difference sizes. Each point is the
average over 100 runs.
0.5
1
1.35
2
2.5
3
100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107
Overhead (η*)
Set Difference (d)
Figure 5: Overhead of Rateless IBLTs at varying difference
sizes𝑑. We run 100 simulations for each data point and report
the average. The shaded area shows the standard deviation.
The dashed line shows 1.35, the overhead predicted by density
evolution.
The density evolution analysis also predicts how decoding pro-
gresses as the decoder receives more coded symbols. The fixed
points of𝑞 in Eq. 3 represent the expected fraction of source sym-
bols that the peeling decoder fails to recover before stalling, as𝑑
goes to infinity. Fig. 6 compares this result with simulations (we
plot 1−𝑞, the fraction that the decodercan recover) and they match
closely. There is a sharp increase in the fraction of recovered source
symbols towards the end, a behavior also seen in other codes that
use the peeling decoder, such as LT codes [17].
6 Implementation
We implement Rateless IBLT as a library in 353 lines of Go code.
The implementation is self-contained and does not use third-party
code. In this section, we discuss some important optimizations in
the implementation.
Efficient incremental encoding. A key feature of Rateless IBLT
is that it allows Alice to generate and send coded symbols one by
one until Bob can decode. Suppose that Alice has generated coded
symbols until index 𝑖− 1, and now wishes to generate the 𝑖-th
coded symbol. She needs to quickly find the source symbols that
are mapped to it. A strawman solution is to store alongside each
source symbol the next index it is mapped to, and scan all the source

ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia Lei Yang, Yossi Gilad, and Mohammad Alizadeh
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1.35 1.6 1.8 2
Sim Diff=500
2000
10000
Density Evolution
Recovered Fraction (1-q)
Coded Symbols Received / Set Difference ( η)
Figure 6: The fraction of recovered source symbols after re-
ceiving different number of coded symbols (normalized over
the difference size𝑑), as observed in simulations (average of
1000 runs), and as predicted by density evolution. Dashed
line shows 1.35, the overhead predicted by density evolution.
symbols to find the ones mapped to𝑖. However, this takes𝑂(|𝐴|)
time. In our implementation, we store pointers to source symbols
in a heap. It implements a priority queue, where the priority is the
index of the next coded symbol that a source symbol is mapped to.
A smaller value indicates higher priority. This ensures that source
symbols used for generating the next coded symbol are always at
the head of the queue so that the encoder can access them efficiently
without scanning all the source symbols.
Variable-length encoding for count. Recall that the count field
stores the number of source symbols that are mapped to a coded
symbol during encoding. The standard approach is to allocate a
fixed number of bytes for it [8, 16], which inflates the size of each
coded symbol by a constant amount. However, in Rateless IBLT,
the value stored in count decreases with the index of the coded
symbol according to a known pattern: the𝑖-th coded symbol for
a set𝑆 is expected to have a count of|𝑆|𝜌(𝑖). This pattern allows
us to aggressively compress the count field. Instead of storing the
value itself, we can store the difference of the actual value and the
aforementioned expected value, which is a much smaller number.
The node receiving the coded symbol can reconstruct the actual
value of count, because it knows 𝑁 (transmitted with the 0-th
coded symbol) and𝑖 (assuming a transport that preserves ordering).
Instead of allocating a fixed number of bytes, we use variable-length
quantity [36] to store the difference, which uses⌈log128𝑥⌉ bytes to
store any number𝑥. Using our approach, the count field takes only
1.05 bytes per coded symbol on average when encoding a set of106
items into 104 coded symbols, keeping the resulting communication
cost to a minimum.
7 Evaluation
We compare Rateless IBLT with state-of-the-art set reconciliation
schemes, and demonstrate its low communication (§ 7.1) and com-
putation (§ 7.2) costs across a wide range of workloads (set sizes,
difference sizes, and item lengths). We then apply Rateless IBLT
to synchronize the account states of Ethereum and demonstrate
significant improvements over the production system on real work-
loads (§ 7.3).
Schemes compared. We compare with regular IBLT [8, 13], MET-
IBLT [16], PinSketch [7], and Merkle tries [39]. For Rateless IBLT,
we use our implementation discussed in § 6. For regular IBLT and
MET-IBLT, we implement each scheme in Python. We use the rec-
ommended parameters [ 8, § 6.1][ 16, §§ V-A, V-C], and allocate
8 bytes for the checksum and the count fields, respectively. For
PinSketch, we use Minisketch [23, § 6], a state-of-the-art implemen-
tation [38] written in C++ and deployed in Bitcoin. For Merkle tries,
we use the implementation in Geth [10], the most popular client
for Ethereum.
7.1 Communication Cost
We first measure the communicationoverhead, defined as the amount
of data transmitted during reconciliation divided by the size of set
difference accounted in bytes. We test with set differences of 1–400
items. Beyond 400, the overhead of all schemes stays stable. The
set size is 1 million items (recall that it only affects Merkle trie’s
communication cost). Each item is 32 bytes, the size of a SHA256
hash, commonly used as keys in open-permission distributed sys-
tems [22, 35]. For Rateless IBLT and MET-IBLT, we generate coded
symbols until decoding succeeds, repeat each experiment100 times,
and then report the average overhead and the standard deviation.
Regular IBLTs cannot be dynamically expanded, and tuning the
number of coded symbols𝑚 requires precise knowledge of the size
of the set difference. Usually, this is achieved by sending an estima-
tor before reconciliation [8], which incurs an extra communication
cost of at least 15 KB according to the recommended setup [ 16,
§ V-C]. We report the overhead of regular IBLT with and without
this extra cost. Also, unlike the other schemes, regular IBLTs may
fail to decode probabilistically. We gradually increase the number
of coded symbols 𝑚 until the decoding failure rate drops below
1/3 000.
Fig. 7 shows the overhead of all schemes except for Merkle trie,
whose overhead is significantly higher than the rest at over40 across
all difference sizes we test. Rateless IBLT consistently achieves lower
overhead compared to regular IBLT and MET-IBLT, especially when
the set difference is small. For example, the overhead is 2–4× lower
when the set difference is less than 50. The improvement is more
significant when considering the cost of the estimator for regu-
lar IBLTs. On the other hand, PinSketch consistently achieves an
overhead of 1, which is 37–60% lower than Rateless IBLT. However,
as we will soon show, Rateless IBLT incurs 2–2 000× less compu-
tation than PinSketch on both the encoder and the decoder. We
believe that the extra communication cost is worthwhile in most
applications for the significant reduction in computation cost.
Scalability of Rateless IBLT. We quickly remark on how Rateless
IBLT’s communication cost scales to longer or shorter items. Like
other schemes based on sparse graphs, the checksum and count
fields add a constant cost to each coded symbol. For Rateless IBLT,
these two fields together occupy about 9 bytes. Longer items will
better amortize this fixed cost. When reconciling shorter items, this
fixed cost might become more prominent. However, it is possible to
reduce the length of thechecksum field if the differences are smaller,
because there will be fewer opportunities for hash collisions. We
found that hashes of 4 bytes are enough to reliably reconcile differ-
ences of tens of thousands. It is also possible to remove the count
field altogether; Bob can still recover the symmetric difference as
the peeling decoder (§ 3) does not use this field.

Practical Rateless Set Reconciliation ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400
Rateless IBLT
MET-IBLT
Regular IBLT
Regular IBLT + Estimator
PinSketch
Communication Overhead
Set Difference
Figure 7: Communication overhead of various schemes. Each
item is 32 bytes. Shaded areas show the standard deviation
for Rateless IBLT and MET-IBLT. Regular IBLT + Estimator
shows the overhead of regular IBLT with an estimator for
the size of set difference. We do not plot for Merkle Trie as
its overhead is significantly higher (over 40) than the rest.
7.2 Computation Cost
There are two potential computation bottlenecks in set reconcilia-
tion: encoding the sets into coded symbols, and decoding the coded
symbols to recover the symmetric difference. Encoding happens at
Alice, and both encoding and decoding happen at Bob. In this exper-
iment, we measure the encoding and decoding throughput for sets
of various sizes and differences. We focus on comparing with PinS-
ketch. We fix the item size to 8 bytes, because this is the maximum
size that the PinSketch implementation supports. We do not com-
pare with regular IBLT or MET-IBLT as we cannot find high-quality
open source implementations, and they have similar complexity as
Rateless IBLT.5 We will compare with Merkle trie in § 7.3. We run
the benchmarks on a server with two Intel Xeon E5-2697 v4 CPUs.
Both Rateless IBLT and PinSketch are single-threaded, and we pin
the executions to one CPU core using cpuset(1).
Encoding. Fig. 8 shows in solid lines the encoding throughput,
defined as the difference size divided by the time it takes for the
encoder to generate enough coded symbols for successful recon-
ciliation. It indicates the number of items that can be reconciled
per second with a compute-bound encoder. Rateless IBLT achieves
2–2000× higher encoding throughput than PinSketch when recon-
ciling differences of 2–105 items. The significant gain is because the
mapping between source and coded symbols is sparse in Rateless
IBLT, and the sparsity increases rapidly with 𝑚, so the average
cost to generate a coded symbol decreases quickly. In comparison,
generating a coded symbol in PinSketch always requires evaluating
the entire characteristic polynomial, causing the throughput to
converge to a constant.
As the difference size increases, the encoding throughput of
Rateless IBLT increases almost linearly, enabling the encoder to
5The complexity is linear to the average number of coded symbols each source symbol
is mapped to.This is𝑂(log(𝑚)) for Rateless IBLT and MET-IBLT [16], and constant for
regular IBLT, where𝑚 is the number of coded symbols. However, the cost is amortized
over the size of the set difference, which is𝑂(𝑚). So, in all three IBLT-based schemes,
the cost to encode for each set difference decreases quickly as𝑚 increases.
scale to large differences. In Fig. 8, we plot in dashed lines the
time it takes to finish encoding. As the difference size increases by
50 000×, the encoding time of Rateless IBLT grows by less than 6×.
Meanwhile, the encoding time of PinSketch grows by 5 000×.
Decoding. Fig. 9 shows the decoding throughput (solid lines) and
time (dashed lines), defined similarly as in the encoding exper-
iment. We do not make a distinction of the set size, because it
does not affect the decoding complexity. (Recall that decoders op-
erate on coded symbols of the symmetric difference only.) Rateless
IBLT achieves 10–107× higher decoding throughput than PinSketch.
This is because decoding PinSketch is equivalent to interpolating
polynomials [7], which has𝑂(𝑚2) complexity [38], while decod-
ing Rateless IBLT has only𝑂(𝑚 log(𝑚)) complexity thanks to the
sparse mapping between source and coded symbols. As the differ-
ence size grows by 50 000×, the decoding throughput of Rateless
IBLT drops by only 34%, allowing it to scale to large differences.
For example, it takes Rateless IBLT0.01 second to decode 105 differ-
ences. In contrast, it takes PinSketch more than a minute to decode
104 differences.
Scalability of Rateless IBLT. We now show that Rateless IBLT
preserves its computation efficiency when scaling to larger sets,
larger differences, and longer items.
The set size𝑁 affects encoding, but not decoding, because the
decoder operates on coded symbols that represent the symmetric
difference. The computation cost of encoding grows linearly with
𝑁 , as each source symbol is mapped to the same number of coded
symbols on average and thus adds the same amount of work. For
example, in Fig. 8, the encoding time for 103 differences is 2.9 mil-
liseconds when 𝑁 = 104, and 294 milliseconds when 𝑁 = 106, a
difference of 100× that matches the change in𝑁 . Fig. 10 shows the
encoding time measured in experiments with the same configura-
tion for a wider range of𝑁 .
The difference size𝑑 affects both encoding and decoding. Recall
that Rateless IBLT uses about 1.35𝑑 coded symbols to reconcile𝑑
differences (§ 5). As𝑑 increases, the encoder needs to generate more
coded symbols. However, unlike PinSketch where the cost is linear
in𝑑, the cost of Rateless IBLT grows logarithmically. For example,
in Fig. 8a, the encoding time grows by only 6× as the set difference
increases from 1 to 105. This is because the mapping from source
to coded symbols is sparse: each source symbol is only mapped to
an average of𝑂(log𝑑) coded symbols. The same result applies to
decoding. For example, in Fig. 9, the decoding throughput drops by
2× as the𝑑 grows by 104×.
The item sizeℓ affects both encoding and decoding because it
decides the time it takes to compute the XOR of two symbols, which
dominates the computation cost in Rateless IBLT. Fig. 11 shows the
relative slowdown when asℓ grows from 8 bytes to 32 KB. Initially,
the slowdown is sublinear (e.g., less than 4× whenℓ grows by 16×
from 8 to 128 bytes) because the other costs that are independent
ofℓ (e.g., generating the mappings) are better amortized. However,
after 2 KB, the slowdown becomes linear. This implies that the data
rate at which the encoder can process source symbols, measured in
bytes per second, stays constant. For example, when encoding for
𝑑 = 1000, the encoder can process source symbols at 124.8 MB/s.
The same analysis applies to decoding. In comparison, the encoding

ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia Lei Yang, Yossi Gilad, and Mohammad Alizadeh
101
102
103
104
105
106
100 101 102 103 104 105 10-2
10-1
100
101
102
103
Rateless IBLT time
throughput
Encoding Throughput (s -1)
Encoding Time (s)
Set Difference
(a)𝑁 = 1 000 000
103
104
105
106
100 101 102 103 10-4
10-3
10-2
10-1
PinSketch time
throughput
Encoding Throughput (s -1)
Encoding Time (s)
Set Difference (b)𝑁 = 10 000
Figure 8: Encoding throughput and time for sets of sizes 𝑁 = 1 000 000 and
𝑁 = 10 000. Solid lines show the throughput (left Y-axis), and dashed lines
show the encoding time (right Y-axis).
102
103
104
105
106
107
100 101 102 103 104 105 10-610-510-410-310-210-1100101102103
Rateless IBLT
PinSketch
Decoding Throughput (s -1)
Decoding Time (s)
Set Difference
Figure 9: Decoding throughput and
time. Solid lines show the throughput
(left Y-axis), and dashed lines show the
decoding time (right Y-axis).
10-4
10-2
100
102
103 104 105 106 107 108
Encoding Time (s)
Set Size
Figure 10: Encoding time of
1 000 differences and vary-
ing set size 𝑁 .
100
101
102
103
8 32 128 0.5K 2K 8K 32K
Slowdown
Item Size (bytes)
Figure 11: Slowdown when
encoding items of different
sizes.
complexity of PinSketch increases linearly withℓ, and the decoding
complexity increases quadratically [7, 38].
7.3 Application
We now apply Rateless IBLT to a prominent application, the Ethereum
blockchain. Whenever a blockchain replica comes online, it must
synchronize with others to get the latest ledger state before it can
validate new transactions or serve user queries. The ledger state is
a key-value table, where the keys are 20-byte wallet addresses, and
the values are 72-byte account states such as its balance. There are
230 million accounts as of January 4, 2024. Synchronizing the ledger
state is equivalent to reconciling the set of all key-value pairs, a
natural application of Rateless IBLT.
Ethereum (as well as most other blockchains) currently uses
Merkle tries (§ 2) to synchronize ledger states between replicas. It
applied a few optimizations: using a 16-ary trie instead of a binary
one, and shortening sub-tries that have no branches. The protocol is
called state heal and has been deployed in Geth [10], the implemen-
tation which accounts for 84% of all Ethereum replicas [31]. Variants
of Geth also power other major blockchains, such as Binance Smart
Chain and Optimism.
State heal retains the issues with Merkle tries despite the op-
timizations. To discover a differing key-value pair (leaf), replicas
must visit and compare every internal node on the branch from
the root to the differing leaf. This amplifies the communication,
computation, and storage I/O costs by as much as the depth of
the trie, i.e.,𝑂(log(𝑁)) for a set of𝑁 key-value pairs. In addition,
replicas must descend the branch in lock steps, so the process takes
𝑂(log(𝑁)) round trips. As a result, some Ethereum replicas have
reported spending weeks on state heal, e.g., [ 11]. In comparison,
Rateless IBLT does not have these issues. Its communication and
computation costs depend only on the size of the difference rather
than the entire ledger state, and it requires no interactivity between
replicas besides streaming coded symbols at line rate.
Setup. We compare state heal with Rateless IBLT in synchronizing
Ethereum ledger states. We implement a prototype in 1,903 lines of
Go code. The prototype is able to load a snapshot of the ledger state
from the disk, and synchronize with a peer over the network using
either scheme. For state heal, we use the implementation [12] in
Geth v1.13.10 without modification. For Rateless IBLT, we use our
implementation discussed in § 6. We wrap it with a simple network
protocol where a replica requests synchronization by opening a TCP
connection to the peer, and the peer streams coded symbols until
the requesting replica closes the connection to signal successful
decoding.
To obtain workload for experiments, we extract snapshots of
Ethereum ledger states as of blocks 18908312–18938312, correspond-
ing to a 100-hour time span between December 31, 2023 and January
4, 2024. Each snapshot represents the ledger state when a block was
just produced in the live Ethereum blockchain.6 For each experi-
ment, we set up two replicas: Alice always loads the latest snapshot
(block 18938312); Bob loads snapshots of different staleness and syn-
chronizes with Alice. This simulates the scenario where Bob goes
offline at some point in time (depending on the snapshot he loads),
wakes up when block 18938312 was just produced, and synchro-
nizes with Alice to get the latest ledger state. We run both replicas
on a server with two Intel Xeon E5-2698 v4 CPUs running FreeBSD
14.0. We use Dummynet [29] to inject a 50 ms one-way propagation
delay between the replicas and enforce different bandwidth caps of
10 to 100 Mbps.
Results. We first vary the state snapshot that Bob loads and mea-
sure the completion time and the communication cost for Bob to
synchronize with Alice. We fix the bandwidth to 20 Mbps. Fig. 12
shows the results. As Bob’s state becomes more stale, more up-
dates happen between his and the latest states, and the difference
between the two grows linearly. As a result, the completion time
6Ethereum produces a block every 12 seconds. Each block is a batch of transactions
that update the ledger state.

Practical Rateless Set Reconciliation ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
1/3 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
Rateless IBLT time
data
Merkle Trie time
data
Sync Completion Time (s)
Data Transmitted (MB)
Staleness (hour)
(a) Staleness between 20 minutes and 100 hours.
0
5
10
15
20
25
1 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
0
5
10
15
20
Sync Completion Time (s)
Data Transmitted (MB)
Staleness (minute)
(b) Staleness between 1 minute and 20 minutes.
Figure 12: Completion time and communication cost when
synchronizing Ethereum ledger states at different staleness
over a network link with 50 ms of propagation delay and 20
Mbps of bandwidth. A staleness of 𝑥 hours means the state
is𝑥-hours old when synchronization starts.
and the communication cost of both schemes increase linearly.
Meanwhile, Rateless IBLT consistently achieves 4.8–13.6× lower
completion time, and 4.4–8.6× lower communication cost com-
pared to state heal. As discussed previously, state heal has a much
higher communication cost because it requires transmitting the
differing internal nodes of the Merkle trie in addition to the leaves.
For example, this amplifies the number of trie nodes transmitted by
3.6× when Bob’s state is 30 hours stale. The higher communication
cost leads to proportionately longer completion time as the system
is throughput-bound.
In our experiments, state heal requires at least 11 rounds of in-
teractivity, as Alice and Bob descend from the roots of their tries
to the differing leaves in lock steps. Rateless IBLT, in comparison,
only requires half of a round because Alice streams coded symbols
without waiting for any feedback. This advantage is the most obvi-
ous when reconciling a small difference, where the system would
be latency-bound. For example, Rateless IBLT is 8.2× faster than
state heal when Bob’s ledger state is only 1 block (12 seconds) stale.
We quickly highlight the impact of interactivity. Fig. 13 shows
traces of bandwidth usage when synchronizing one block worth of
state difference. For Rateless IBLT, the first coded symbol arrives
at Bob in 1 round-trip time (RTT) after his TCP socket opens (0.5
RTT for TCP ACK to reach Alice, and another 0.5 RTT for the first
symbol to arrive). Subsequent symbols arrive at line rate, as the
peak at 1 RTT indicates. In comparison, for state heal, Alice and
0
5
10
15
20
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
1 RTT 11 RTT s
Rateless IBLT
Merkle Trie
Bandwidth (Mbps)
Time (s)
Figure 13: Time series of bandwidth usage when synchro-
nizing Ethereum ledger states that are 1 block (12 seconds)
stale. The network link has 50 ms of propagation delay and
20 Mbps of bandwidth. Time starts when Bob sees the TCP
socket open.
0
50
100
150
200
250
0 20 40 60 80 100
Rateless IBLT
Merkle Trie
Sync Completion Time (s)
Bandwidth (Mbps)
∞
Figure 14: Completion time when synchronizing Ethereum
ledger states that are 10 hours stale over a network link with
50 ms of propagation delay and different bandwidth.
Bob reach the bottom of their tries after 11 RTTs; before that, they
do not know the actual key-value pairs that differ, and the network
link stays almost idle.
Finally, we demonstrate that Rateless IBLT consistently outper-
forms state heal across different network conditions. We fix Bob’s
snapshot to be 10 hours stale and vary the bandwidth cap. Fig. 14
shows the results. Rateless IBLT is 4.8× faster than state heal at 10
Mbps, and the gain increases to 16× at 100 Mbps. Notice that the
completion time of state heal stays constant after 20 Mbps; it cannot
utilize any extra bandwidth. We observe that state heal becomes
compute-bound: Bob cannot process the trie nodes he receives fast
enough to saturate the network. The completion time does not
change even if we remove the bandwidth cap. In contrast, Rateless
IBLT is throughput-bound, as its completion time keeps decreasing
with the increasing bandwidth. If we remove the bandwidth cap,
Rateless IBLT takes 2.5 seconds to finish and can saturate a 170
Mbps link using one CPU core on each side.
Before ending, we quickly discuss a few other potential solutions
and how Rateless IBLT compares with them. When Bob’s state
is consistent with some particular block, he may request Alice to
compute and send the state delta from his block to the latest block,
which would be as efficient as an optimal set reconciliation scheme.
However, this is often not the case when Bob needs synchroniza-
tion, such as when he recovers from database corruption or he has
downloaded inconsistent shards of state snapshots from multiple

ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia Lei Yang, Yossi Gilad, and Mohammad Alizadeh
sources, routine when Geth replicas bootstrap [34]. Rateless IBLT
(and state heal) does not assume consistent states. Coded symbols in
traditional set reconciliation schemes like regular IBLT are tailored
to a fixed difference size (§ 3). Alice has to generate a new batch of
coded symbols for each peer with a different state. This would add
minutes to the latency for large sets like Ethereum, incur significant
computation costs, and create denial-of-service vulnerabilities.7 In
contrast, Rateless IBLT allows Alice to prepare a single stream of
coded symbols that is efficient for all peers. Because of linearity
(§ 4), Alice can incrementally update the coded symbols as her
ledger state changes. For an average Ethereum block, it takes 11 ms
to update 50 million coded symbols (7 GB) using one CPU core to
reflect the state changes.
8 Irregular Rateless IBLTs
When designing Rateless IBLTs (§ 4.1), the key task was to define
the mapping rule that decides whether a source symbol𝑥 should
be mapped to the𝑖-th coded symbol. Lemmas 4.1 and 4.2 showed
that the mapping rule cannot be uniform over coded symbols: the
probability that a random source symbol is mapped to the 𝑖-th
coded symbol must decrease with𝑖. In other words, different coded
symbols are statistically inequivalent. On average, a coded symbol
with a smaller index sees more source symbols mapped to it than
one with a larger index does.
However, the same is not true for source symbols in our design:
every subset of source symbols uses the same mapping probability
𝜌(𝑖) = 1
1+𝛼𝑖 with the same parameter 𝛼. This leaves a degree of
freedom which we did not explore. We may divide source symbols
into multiple subsets and use different𝜌(𝑖) (in particular, different
𝛼) for each subset. Similar techniques have successfully improved
the communication costs of regular IBLTs [15]. In this section, we
apply this technique on Rateless IBLTs and discuss the implications.
Concretely, we partition source symbols into𝑐 mutually exclu-
sive subsets, where𝑐 is a parameter. A random source symbol be-
longs to subset 𝑗 (0≤ 𝑗 <𝑐) with probability𝑤𝑗 , which is another
set of parameters. For a source symbol𝑥, we choose the subset it
belongs to based on its hash. For example, 𝑥 belongs to subset 𝑗
if ˝𝑗−1
𝑏=0𝑤𝑏≤ Hash(𝑥) < ˝𝑗
𝑏=0𝑤𝑏 assuming the hash is uniformly
distributed in[0, 1). For each subset 𝑗, we define a parameter 𝛼𝑗
and use mapping probability𝜌𝑗(𝑖) = 1
1+𝛼𝑗𝑖 when mapping source
symbols in this subset. In other words, we replace𝛼 with a subset-
specific𝛼𝑗 in the algorithm described in § 4.2. By convention, we
call this generalized design Irregular Rateless IBLTs. Rateless IBLTs
as discussed prior to this section is a special case where 𝑐 = 1,
𝑤0 = 1, and𝛼0 = 0.5.
As mentioned, the main benefit of Irregular Rateless IBLTs over
Rateless IBLTs is a lower communication cost. Unfortunately, the
density evolution analysis does not produce a closed-form result
like the one in Theorem 5.1. To find a good configuration of 𝑐,
𝑤𝑗 , and𝛼𝑗 that minimizes the overhead, we use brute force and
try different values in simulations. To limit the complexity of the
search, we set the number of subsets𝑐 to 3 and found the following
7These issues also apply to the aforementioned state delta solution to a lesser degree,
because Alice has to compute the state deltas on the fly.
1
1.5
2
2.5
100 101 102 103 104 105 106
Rateless IBLT
Irregular Rateless IBLT
Overhead (η*)
Set Difference (d)
Figure 15: Communication overhead of Rateless IBLTs and
Irregular Rateless IBLTs as the difference size changes. We
run 100 simulations for each data point and report the aver-
age.
optimal configuration
𝑐 = 3,
𝑤0,𝑤 1,𝑤 2 = 0.18, 0.56, 0.26,
𝛼0,𝛼 1,𝛼 2 = 0.11, 0.68, 0.82.
As shown in Fig. 15, the resulting communication overhead con-
verges to 1.10, which is 19% lower than Rateless IBLTs (§ 4) and
only 10% above the information-theoretic lower bound. Meanwhile,
encoding and decoding are 1.88 times slower than Rateless IBLTs.
As mentioned in § 4.2, the main reason is that computing mappings
when𝛼 ≠ 0.5 requires raising numbers to arbitrary non-integer
powers, while the case of𝛼 = 0.5 only requires computing square
roots, which is faster on modern hardware. We leave further op-
timizations of the parameters and the implementation to future
works.
9 Conclusion
We designed, mathematically analyzed, and experimentally evalu-
ated Rateless IBLT. To the best of our knowledge, Rateless IBLT is
the first set reconciliation solution with universally low computa-
tion cost and near-optimal communication cost across workloads.
The distinguishing feature is ratelessness: it encodes any set into
an infinitely long codeword, of which any prefix is capable of rec-
onciling a proportional number of differences with another set.
Ratelessness simplifies deployment as there is no parameter; re-
duces overhead as nodes can incrementally send longer prefixes
without over- or under-committing resources to fixed-sized code-
words; and naturally supports concurrent synchronization with
multiple nodes. We mathematically proved its asymptotic efficiency
and showed that the actual performance converges quickly with ex-
tensive simulations. We implemented Rateless IBLT as a library and
benchmarked its performance. Finally, we applied Rateless IBLT
to a popular distributed application and demonstrated significant
gains in state synchronization over the production system.
We point out a few interesting future directions: optimizing the
parameters and the implementation of Irregular Rateless IBLTs; con-
sidering scenarios where Alice and Bob’s sets change in the middle
of reconciliation; and designing efficient solutions for reconciliation
across more than two parties.

Practical Rateless Set Reconciliation ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia
Acknowledgments
We thank Francisco Lázaro for fruitful discussions. Lei Yang was
supported by a gift from the Ethereum Foundation. Yossi Gilad was
partially supported by the Alon Fellowship.
This work does not raise any ethical issues. Appendices are sup-
porting material that has not been peer-reviewed.
References
[1] Elli Androulaki, Artem Barger, Vita Bortnikov, Christian Cachin, Konstanti-
nos Christidis, Angelo De Caro, David Enyeart, Christopher Ferris, Gennady
Laventman, Yacov Manevich, Srinivasan Muralidharan, Chet Murthy, Binh
Nguyen, Manish Sethi, Gari Singh, Keith Smith, Alessandro Sorniotti, Chrysoula
Stathakopoulou, Marko Vukolić, Sharon Weed Cocco, and Jason Yellick. 2018.
Hyperledger fabric: a distributed operating system for permissioned blockchains.
In Proceedings of the Thirteenth EuroSys Conference (Porto, Portugal) (EuroSys ’18).
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 30, 15 pages.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3190508.3190538
[2] Jean-Philippe Aumasson and Daniel J. Bernstein. 2012. SipHash: A Fast Short-
Input PRF. In 13th International Conference on Cryptology in India (INDOCRYPT
2012) (Kolkata, India) (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 7668) . Springer,
New York, NY, USA, 489–508. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-34931-7_28
[3] Burton H. Bloom. 1970. Space/time trade-offs in hash coding with allowable errors.
Commun. ACM 13, 7 (jul 1970), 422–426. https://doi.org/10.1145/362686.362692
[4] R. C. Bose and Dwijendra K. Ray-Chaudhuri. 1960. On A Class of Error Correcting
Binary Group Codes. Inf. Control. 3, 1 (1960), 68–79. https://doi.org/10.1016/
S0019-9958(60)90287-4
[5] John W. Byers, Michael Luby, Michael Mitzenmacher, and Ashutosh Rege. 1998. A
digital fountain approach to reliable distribution of bulk data. InProceedings of the
ACM SIGCOMM ’98 Conference on Applications, Technologies, Architectures, and
Protocols for Computer Communication (Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada)
(SIGCOMM ’98). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
56–67. https://doi.org/10.1145/285237.285258
[6] Lucien Le Cam. 1960. An approximation theorem for the Poisson binomial
distribution. Pacific J. Math. 10, 4 (1960), 1181 – 1197.
[7] Yevgeniy Dodis, Rafail Ostrovsky, Leonid Reyzin, and Adam D. Smith. 2008. Fuzzy
Extractors: How to Generate Strong Keys from Biometrics and Other Noisy Data.
SIAM J. Comput. 38, 1 (2008), 97–139. https://doi.org/10.1137/060651380
[8] David Eppstein, Michael T. Goodrich, Frank Uyeda, and George Varghese. 2011.
What’s the difference? efficient set reconciliation without prior context. In Pro-
ceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM 2011 Conference (Toronto, Ontario, Canada) (SIG-
COMM ’11). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 218–229.
https://doi.org/10.1145/2018436.2018462
[9] Robert G. Gallager. 1962. Low-density parity-check codes. IRE Trans. Inf. Theory
8, 1 (1962), 21–28. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIT.1962.1057683
[10] The go-ethereum Authors. 2024. go-ethereum: Official Go implementation of the
Ethereum protocol. https://geth.ethereum.org.
[11] The go-ethereum Authors. 2024. State heal phase is very slow (not finished after
2 weeks). https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/issues/23191.
[12] The go-ethereum Authors. 2024. trie package - go-ethereum. https://pkg.go.dev/
github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/trie.
[13] Michael T. Goodrich and Michael Mitzenmacher. 2011. Invertible Bloom Lookup
Tables. In 49th Annual Allerton Conference on Communication, Control, and Com-
puting (Allerton 2011) (Monticello, IL, USA). IEEE, New York, NY, USA, 792–799.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ALLERTON.2011.6120248
[14] Yilin Han, Chenxing Li, Peilun Li, Ming Wu, Dong Zhou, and Fan Long. 2020.
Shrec: bandwidth-efficient transaction relay in high-throughput blockchain sys-
tems. In Proceedings of the 11th ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing (Virtual
Event, USA) (SoCC ’20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY,
USA, 238–252. https://doi.org/10.1145/3419111.3421283
[15] Francisco Lázaro and Balázs Matuz. 2021. Irregular Invertible Bloom Look-Up
Tables. In 11th International Symposium on Topics in Coding (ISTC 2021) (Montreal,
QC, Canada). IEEE, New York, NY, USA, 1–5. https://doi.org/10.1109/ISTC49272.
2021.9594198
[16] Francisco Lázaro and Balázs Matuz. 2023. A Rate-Compatible Solution to the
Set Reconciliation Problem. IEEE Trans. Commun. 71, 10 (2023), 5769–5782.
https://doi.org/10.1109/TCOMM.2023.3296630
[17] Michael Luby. 2002. LT Codes. In43rd Symposium on Foundations of Computer Sci-
ence (FOCS 2002) (Vancouver, BC, Canada). IEEE Computer Society, Los Alamitos,
CA, USA, 271. https://doi.org/10.1109/SFCS.2002.1181950
[18] Michael G. Luby, Michael Mitzenmacher, and M. Amin Shokrollahi. 1998. Analysis
of random processes via And-Or tree evaluation. In Proceedings of the Ninth
Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (San Francisco, California,
USA) (SODA ’98). Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, USA, 364–373.
[19] Yaron Minsky, Ari Trachtenberg, and Richard Zippel. 2003. Set reconciliation
with nearly optimal communication complexity. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 49, 9
(2003), 2213–2218. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIT.2003.815784
[20] Michael Mitzenmacher and Rasmus Pagh. 2018. Simple multi-party set reconcili-
ation. Distributed Comput. 31, 6 (2018), 441–453. https://doi.org/10.1007/S00446-
017-0316-0
[21] Michael Mitzenmacher and George Varghese. 2012. Biff (Bloom filter) codes: Fast
error correction for large data sets. In Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE International
Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2012) (Cambridge, MA, USA). IEEE, New
York, NY, USA, 483–487. https://doi.org/10.1109/ISIT.2012.6284236
[22] Satoshi Nakamoto. 2008. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system.
[23] Gleb Naumenko, Gregory Maxwell, Pieter Wuille, Alexandra Fedorova, and Ivan
Beschastnikh. 2019. Erlay: Efficient Transaction Relay for Bitcoin. In Proceedings
of the 2019 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security
(London, United Kingdom) (CCS ’19). Association for Computing Machinery,
New York, NY, USA, 817–831. https://doi.org/10.1145/3319535.3354237
[24] A. Pinar Ozisik, Gavin Andresen, Brian N. Levine, Darren Tapp, George Bis-
sias, and Sunny Katkuri. 2019. Graphene: efficient interactive set reconcil-
iation applied to blockchain propagation. In Proceedings of the ACM Special
Interest Group on Data Communication (Beijing, China) (SIGCOMM ’19) . As-
sociation for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 303–317. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3341302.3342082
[25] Neil Perry, Bruce Spang, Saba Eskandarian, and Dan Boneh. 2022. Strong
Anonymity for Mesh Messaging. arXiv:2207.04145 [cs.CR]
[26] Aravindh Raman, Sagar Joglekar, Emiliano De Cristofaro, Nishanth Sastry, and
Gareth Tyson. 2019. Challenges in the Decentralised Web: The Mastodon Case.
In Proceedings of the Internet Measurement Conference (Amsterdam, Netherlands)
(IMC ’19). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 217–229.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3355369.3355572
[27] Irving S. Reed and Gustave Solomon. 1960. Polynomial Codes Over Certain Finite
Fields. J. Soc. Indust. Appl. Math. 8, 2 (1960), 300–304. https://doi.org/10.1137/
0108018
[28] Thomas J. Richardson and Rüdiger L. Urbanke. 2001. The capacity of low-density
parity-check codes under message-passing decoding. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 47,
2 (2001), 599–618. https://doi.org/10.1109/18.910577
[29] Luigi Rizzo. 1997. Dummynet: a simple approach to the evaluation of network
protocols. SIGCOMM Comput. Commun. Rev. 27, 1 (jan 1997), 31–41. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/251007.251012
[30] Herbert Robbins. 1955. A remark on Stirling’s formula. The American mathemat-
ical monthly 62, 1 (1955), 26–29.
[31] Sonic. 2024. Ethereum Execution Client Diversity. https://execution-diversity.info
(retrieved January 22, 2024).
[32] J Michael Steele. 1994. Le Cam’s inequality and Poisson approximations. The
American Mathematical Monthly 101, 1 (1994), 48–54.
[33] E. Summermatter and C. Grothoff. 2022. Byzantine Fault Tolerant Set Reconcilia-
tion. https://lsd.gnunet.org/lsd0003/.
[34] Massimiliano Taverna and Kenneth G. Paterson. 2023. Snapping Snap Sync:
Practical Attacks on Go Ethereum Synchronising Nodes. In32nd USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Security 23) . USENIX Association, Anaheim, CA, 3331–3348.
https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity23/presentation/taverna
[35] Dennis Trautwein, Aravindh Raman, Gareth Tyson, Ignacio Castro, Will Scott,
Moritz Schubotz, Bela Gipp, and Yiannis Psaras. 2022. Design and evalua-
tion of IPFS: a storage layer for the decentralized web. In Proceedings of the
ACM SIGCOMM 2022 Conference (Amsterdam, Netherlands) (SIGCOMM ’22) .
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 739–752. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3544216.3544232
[36] Jianguo Wang, Chunbin Lin, Yannis Papakonstantinou, and Steven Swanson. 2017.
An Experimental Study of Bitmap Compression vs. Inverted List Compression.
In Proceedings of the 2017 ACM International Conference on Management of Data
(Chicago, Illinois, USA) (SIGMOD ’17). Association for Computing Machinery,
New York, NY, USA, 993–1008. https://doi.org/10.1145/3035918.3064007
[37] Gavin Wood. 2014. Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction
ledger.
[38] Pieter Wuille. 2018. Minisketch: a library for BCH-based set reconciliation.
https://github.com/sipa/minisketch.
[39] Cong Yue, Zhongle Xie, Meihui Zhang, Gang Chen, Beng Chin Ooi, Sheng Wang,
and Xiaokui Xiao. 2020. Analysis of Indexing Structures for Immutable Data. In
Proceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of
Data (Portland, OR, USA) (SIGMOD ’20). Association for Computing Machinery,
New York, NY, USA, 925–935. https://doi.org/10.1145/3318464.3389773
A Inflexibility of Regular IBLTs
We state and prove Theorems A.1 and A.2, which show that the
efficiency of regular IBLTs degrades exponentially fast when being
used to reconcile more or fewer differences than parameterized

ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia Lei Yang, Yossi Gilad, and Mohammad Alizadeh
for. We state the theorems with respect to generic sets of source
symbols. When using IBLTs for set reconciliation (§ 3), the sets are
𝐴△𝐵.
Theorem A.1. For a random set of 𝑛 source symbols and a cor-
responding regular IBLT with 𝑚 coded symbols, the probability that
the peeling decoder can recover at least one source symbol decreases
exponentially in𝑛/𝑚.
Proof. For the peeling decoder to recover at least one source
symbol, there must be at least one pure coded symbol at the begin-
ning. Otherwise, peeling cannot start, and no source symbol can
be recovered. We now calculate a lower bound on the probability
𝑝nopure that no pure coded symbol exists. Note that there is another
parameter for regular IBLTs,𝑘, which determines the number of
coded symbols each source symbol is mapped to (§ 3). However, it
can be shown that the probability that no pure coded symbol exists
increases with𝑘, so we set𝑘 = 1 to get a lower bound.
We consider the equivalent problem: if we throw𝑛 balls (source
symbols) uniformly at random into𝑚 bins (coded symbols), what is
a lower bound on the probability that no bin ends up having exactly
one ball? We compute the number of ways𝑓 such that at least one
bin has exactly one ball, which is the opposite of the event we are
interested in. We set aside one of the𝑚 bins which will get exactly
one ball, and assign one of the𝑛 balls to this bin. We then throw the
remaining𝑛− 1 balls into the remaining𝑚− 1 bins freely. Notice
that there are duplicates, so we get an upper bound
𝑓 ≤𝑚𝑛(𝑚− 1)𝑛−1.
The total number of ways to throw𝑛 balls into𝑚 bins is
𝑔 =𝑚𝑛.
Each way of throwing is equally likely to happen, so the probability
𝑝nopure that no bin ends up with exactly one ball has a lower bound
𝑝nopure = 1−𝑓/𝑔
≥ 1−𝑚𝑛(𝑚− 1)𝑛−1
𝑚𝑛
= 1−𝑛(𝑚− 1)𝑛−1
𝑚𝑛−1
= 1−𝑛

1− 1
𝑚
𝑛−1
We are interested in the event where peeling can start, which is
the opposite event. Its probability has an upper bound for𝑛/𝑚 > 1
𝑝haspure = 1−𝑝nopure
≤𝑛

1− 1
𝑚
𝑛−1
≤𝑛𝑒−𝑛−1
𝑚
=𝑜(1.5− 𝑛
𝑚).
□
The following theorem says that when dropping a fraction of a
regular IBLT to reconcile a smaller number of differences𝑛 with a
constant overhead𝜂 (the ratio between the number of used coded
symbols and the number of source symbols𝑛), the success proba-
bility decreases quickly as a larger fraction gets dropped.
Theorem A.2. Consider a random set of 𝑛 source symbols and a
corresponding regular IBLT with 𝑚 coded symbols, where each source
symbol is mapped to 𝑘 coded symbols. The peeling decoder tries to
recover all source symbols using the first 𝜂𝑛 coded symbols.𝑘 and𝜂
are constants, and𝜂𝑛≤𝑚. The probability that it succeeds decreases
exponentially in 1−𝜂𝑛/𝑚.
Proof. For the peeling decoder to succeed, each of the source
symbols must be mapped at least once to the first𝜂𝑛 coded symbols.
Because each source symbol is uniformly mapped to 𝑘 of the𝑚
coded symbols, the probability that one is only mapped to the
remaining𝑚−𝜂𝑛 coded symbols that the decoder does not use
(“missed”) is
𝑝missone =
𝑚−𝜂𝑛
𝑘

/
𝑚
𝑘

=(𝑚−𝜂𝑛)(𝑚−𝜂𝑛− 1)... (𝑚−𝜂𝑛−𝑘+ 1)
𝑚(𝑚− 1)... (𝑚−𝑘+ 1)
≈

1−𝜂𝑛
𝑚
𝑘
.
The last step approximates 𝑚−𝜂𝑛−𝑘+1
𝑚−𝑘+1 with 𝑚−𝜂𝑛
𝑚 . This does not
change the result qualitatively because𝑘 is a constant.
The probability that no source symbol is missed is
𝑝nomiss =(1−𝑝missone)𝑛
≤𝑒−𝑛𝑝missone
=𝑒−𝑛(1−𝜂𝑛
𝑚)
𝑘
.
□
B Calculation of 𝑃𝑔 and𝐶(𝑥)
In this section, we calculate𝑃𝑔 and𝐶(𝑥) as defined in § 4.2.
𝑃𝑔 =(1−𝜌(𝑖+ 1))( 1−𝜌(𝑖+ 2))... (1−𝜌(𝑖+𝑔− 1))𝜌(𝑖+𝑔)
= 1/𝛼
𝑖+𝑔+ 1/𝛼
𝑔−1Ö
𝑛=1
𝑖+𝑛
𝑖+𝑛+ 1/𝛼
= (𝑖+ 1)𝑔−1
𝛼(𝑖+ 1+ 1/𝛼)𝑔
.
Here,(𝑥)𝑛 is the Pochhammer symbol.8
Before proceeding to calculate𝐶(𝑥), we first prove a useful iden-
tity about quotients of Gamma functions,
Γ(𝑥)
Γ(𝑥+𝑦)≡ 1
𝑦− 1
 Γ(𝑥)
Γ(𝑥+𝑦− 1)− Γ(𝑥+ 1)
Γ(𝑥+𝑦)

.
We start from the right-hand side,
1
𝑦− 1
 Γ(𝑥)
Γ(𝑥+𝑦− 1)− Γ(𝑥+ 1)
Γ(𝑥+𝑦)

= 1
𝑦− 1
 (𝑥+𝑦− 1)Γ(𝑥)
(𝑥+𝑦− 1)Γ(𝑥+𝑦− 1)− Γ(𝑥+ 1)
Γ(𝑥+𝑦)

= 1
𝑦− 1
(𝑦− 1)Γ(𝑥)+ Γ(𝑥+ 1)
Γ(𝑥+𝑦) − Γ(𝑥+ 1)
Γ(𝑥+𝑦)

= Γ(𝑥)
Γ(𝑥+𝑦).
8(𝑥)𝑛 =𝑥(𝑥+ 1)... (𝑥+𝑛− 1).

Practical Rateless Set Reconciliation ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia
The identity immediately implies the following
𝑏∑︁
𝑥=𝑎
Γ(𝑥)
Γ(𝑥+𝑦)≡ 1
𝑦− 1
 Γ(𝑎)
Γ(𝑎+𝑦− 1)− Γ(𝑏+ 1)
Γ(𝑏+𝑦)

. (4)
We now calculate𝐶(𝑥).
𝐶(𝑥) =
𝑥∑︁
𝑔=1
𝑃𝑔
=
𝑥∑︁
𝑔=1
(𝑖+ 1)𝑔−1
𝛼(𝑖+ 1+ 1/𝛼)𝑔
=
𝑥∑︁
𝑔=1
Γ(𝑖+𝑔)Γ(𝑖+ 1+ 1/𝛼)
𝛼 Γ(𝑖+ 1)Γ(𝑖+ 1+𝑔+ 1/𝛼)
= Γ(𝑖+ 1+ 1/𝛼)
𝛼 Γ(𝑖+ 1)
𝑥∑︁
𝑔=1
Γ(𝑖+𝑔)
Γ(𝑖+𝑔+ 1+ 1/𝛼)
=
Γ(𝑖+ 1+ 1
𝛼)
Γ(𝑖+ 1)
 
Γ(𝑖+ 1)
Γ(𝑖+ 1+ 1
𝛼)
− Γ(𝑖+𝑥+ 1)
Γ(𝑖+𝑥+ 1+ 1
𝛼)
!
= 1−
Γ(𝑖+ 1+ 1
𝛼)Γ(𝑥+𝑖+ 1)
Γ(𝑖+ 1)Γ(𝑥+𝑖+ 1+ 1
𝛼)
.
The second last equality results from applying Eq. 4.
C Deferred Proofs
Lemma C.1 (Restatement of Lemma 4.1). For any𝜖 > 0, any
mapping probability𝜌(𝑖) such that𝜌(𝑖) = Ω  1/𝑖1−𝜖, and any𝜎 > 0,
if there exists at least one pure coded symbol within the first 𝑚 coded
symbols for a random set 𝑆 with probability𝜎, then𝑚 =𝜔(|𝑆|).
Proof. We need to show∀𝜂 > 0∃|𝑆|0 > 0∀|𝑆| >|𝑆|0 :𝑚 >𝜂|𝑆|.
Because𝜌(𝑖) = Ω  1/𝑖1−𝜖, there exists𝛿 > 0 and𝑖0 > 0, such that
𝜌(𝑖)≥ 𝛿/𝑖1−𝜖 for all𝑖 >𝑖0. Let𝜌0 be the smallest non-zero value
among𝜌(𝑖) for all 0≤𝑖≤𝑖0. Let
|𝑆|0 = max'›
«
𝜂1−𝜖
𝛿
 1
𝜖
, 1
𝜂
 𝛿
𝜌0
 1
1−𝜖
,|𝑆|∗“ﬁ
‹
where|𝑆|∗ is such that for all|𝑆| >|𝑆|∗,
𝑒·𝛿𝜂𝜖|𝑆|1+𝜖 exp

−𝛿|𝑆|𝜖
𝜂1−𝜖

<𝜎.
Note that exp
𝛿|𝑆|𝜖
𝜂1−𝜖

=𝜔  |𝑆|1+𝜖, so such|𝑆|∗ always exists.
For any𝑖≥ 0, the𝑖-th coded symbol is pure if and only if exactly
one source symbol is mapped to it, which happens with probability
𝑃𝑖 =|𝑆|𝜌(𝑖)( 1−𝜌(𝑖))|𝑆|− 1
≤𝑒·|𝑆|𝜌(𝑖)𝑒−|𝑆|𝜌(𝑖).
The inequality comes from the fact that(1−𝑥)𝑦≤𝑒−𝑥𝑦 for any
0≤𝑥≤ 1 and𝑦≥ 1.
By the definition of|𝑆|0, for any|𝑆| >|𝑆|0 and any 0≤𝑖≤𝜂|𝑆|,
either𝜌(𝑖) = 0, or𝜌(𝑖)≥ 𝛿
(𝜂|𝑆|) 1−𝜖 and|𝑆|𝜌(𝑖) > 1. In either case,
𝑃𝑖≤𝑒· 𝛿|𝑆|𝜖
𝜂1−𝜖 exp

−𝛿|𝑆|𝜖
𝜂1−𝜖

.
Recall that we want at least one pure symbol among the first
𝑚 coded symbols. Assume for contradiction that𝑚≤𝜂|𝑆|. Then,
failure happens with probability
𝑃fail =
𝑚−1Ö
𝑖=0
(1−𝑃𝑖)
≥
𝜂|𝑆|− 1Ö
𝑖=0
(1−𝑃𝑖)
≥

1−𝑒· 𝛿|𝑆|𝜖
𝜂1−𝜖 exp

−𝛿|𝑆|𝜖
𝜂1−𝜖
𝜂|𝑆|
≥ 1−𝑒·𝛿𝜂𝜖|𝑆|1+𝜖 exp

−𝛿|𝑆|𝜖
𝜂1−𝜖

> 1−𝜎.
□
We remark that a stronger result which only requires 𝜌(𝑖) =
𝜔(log𝑖/𝑖) can be shown with a very similar proof, which we omit
for simplicity and lack of practical implications. We may also con-
sider a generalization of this lemma, by requiring there to be at least
𝑘 coded symbols with at most𝑘 source symbols mapped to each,
for every𝑘≤| 𝑆|. (Lemma 4.1 is the special case of𝑘 = 1.) This may
lead to an even tighter bound on𝜌(𝑖), which we conjecture to be
𝜌(𝑖) =𝜔(1/𝑖).
Lemma C.2 (Restatement of Lemma 4.2). For any mapping
probability𝜌(𝑖) such that 𝜌(𝑖) = 𝑜(1/𝑖), and any 𝜎 > 0, if there
exist at least|𝑆| non-empty coded symbols within the first 𝑚 coded
symbols for a random set 𝑆 with probability𝜎, then𝑚 =𝜔(|𝑆|).
Proof. We need to show that∀𝜂 > 0∃|𝑆|0 > 0∀|𝑆| >|𝑆|0 :
𝑚 > 𝜂|𝑆|. First, note that for there to be |𝑆| non-empty symbols
within the first𝑚 coded symbols,𝑚 cannot be smaller than|𝑆|, so
the statement is trivially true for 0 <𝜂 < 1. We now prove for the
case of𝜂≥ 1.
For any𝜂≥ 1, let𝛿 = 1
4𝜂 . Because 𝜌(𝑖) = 𝑜(1/𝑖), there must
exist𝑖0 > 0 such that𝜌(𝑖) <𝛿/𝑖 for all𝑖 >𝑖0. Let
|𝑆|0 = max(2𝑖0, 4𝜂2(1− 2𝜂) log(𝜎)).
For all𝑖≥| 𝑆|/2, the𝑖-th coded symbol is non-empty with prob-
ability
𝑃𝑖 = 1−(1−𝜌(𝑖))|𝑆|
< 1−

1− 2𝛿
|𝑆|
|𝑆|
≤ 2𝛿.
The first inequality is because 𝜌(𝑖) < 𝛿/𝑖 for𝑖 ≥| 𝑆|/2, and the
second inequality is because(1−𝑥)𝑦≥ 1−𝑥𝑦 for any𝑥 < 1 and
𝑦≥ 1.
In order to get|𝑆| non-empty symbols among the first𝑚 coded
symbols, there must be at least |𝑆|/2 non-empty symbols from
index𝑖 =|𝑆|/2 to index𝑖 =𝑚− 1. To derive an upper bond on this
probability, we assume that each is non-empty with probability 2𝛿,
which, as we just saw, is strictly an overestimate. By Hoeffding’s

ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia Lei Yang, Yossi Gilad, and Mohammad Alizadeh
Source symbols 𝑥0 𝑥1 𝑥2 𝑥3
Coded symbols 𝑎0 𝑎1 𝑎2 𝑎3 𝑎4 𝑎5
Figure 16: Example of the bipartite graph representation
of a set of source symbols, 𝑥0,𝑥 1,𝑥 2,𝑥 3, and its first 6 coded
symbols,𝑎0,𝑎 1,...,𝑎 5.
inequality, the probability that there are at least|𝑆|/2 non-empty
symbols has an upper bound
𝑃succ < exp
 
(|𝑆|− 2𝑚)

2𝛿− |𝑆|
2𝑚−|𝑆|
2!
when𝑚≤( 1
4𝛿+ 1
2)|𝑆|, which is true for all𝑚≤𝜂|𝑆|.
Assume𝑚≤𝜂|𝑆| for contradiction. By the definition of𝛿, the
previous upper bound becomes
𝑃succ < exp
 |𝑆|
4𝜂2(1− 2𝜂)

.
The right hand side monotonically decreases with|𝑆|. So, by the
definition of|𝑆|0, for all|𝑆| >|𝑆|0,
𝑃succ < exp
 |𝑆|0
4𝜂2(1− 2𝜂)

≤𝜎.
□
Theorem C.3 (Restatement of Theorem 5.1). For a random set
of𝑛 source symbols, the probability that the peeling decoder success-
fully recovers the set using the first 𝜂𝑛 coded symbols (as defined in
§ 4) goes to 1 as 𝑛 goes to infinity. Here, 𝜂 is any positive constant
such that
∀𝑞∈( 0, 1] :𝑒
1
𝛼 Ei

− 𝑞
𝛼𝜂

<𝑞.
Before proving the theorem, we introduce the graph represen-
tation of a set of source symbols and the corresponding coded
symbols. Imagine a bipartite graph where each source or coded
symbol is a vertex in the graph, and there is an edge between a
source and a coded symbol if and only if the former is mapped to
the latter during encoding. Fig. 16 is an example. We define the de-
gree of a symbol as the number of neighbors it has in this bipartite
graph, i.e., its degree as in graph theory. For example, in Fig. 16,
source symbol𝑥0 has degree 4, and coded symbol𝑎1 has degree 2.
We also define the degree of anedge in the graph [15]. The source
degree of an edge is the degree of the source symbol it connects to,
and its coded degree is the degree of the coded symbol it connects
to. For example, for the edge connecting 𝑥3 and𝑎3 in Fig. 16, its
source degree is 5 because𝑥3 has degree 5, and its coded degree is
2 because𝑎3 has degree 2.
We remark that density evolution is a standard technique [18, 28]
of analyzing codes that are based on random graphs, such as LT [17]
and LDPC [9] codes. Our proof mostly follows these analysis, in
particular, [18, § 2] and [15, § III]. However, the mapping probability
𝜌(𝑖) in Rateless IBLTs is a function whose parameter 𝑖 goes to
infinity as the set size goes to infinity. This is a key challenge that
we solve in our analysis, which enables us to get the closed-form
expression in Theorem 5.1.
Proof. Consider𝑛 random source symbols and its first𝑚 coded
symbols. Let Λ be the random variable denoting the degree of a
random source symbol. Let Λ𝑢 (0≤𝑢≤𝑚) be the probability that
Λ takes value𝑢. Similarly, let Ψ be the random variable denoting
the degree of a random coded symbol. Let Ψ𝑣 (0≤ 𝑣≤ 𝑛) be the
probability that Ψ takes value𝑣. Define the probability generating
functions of Λ and Ψ,
Λ(𝑥) =
𝑚∑︁
𝑢=0
Λ𝑢𝑥𝑢,
Ψ(𝑥) =
𝑛∑︁
𝑣=0
Ψ𝑣𝑥𝑣.
We also consider the degree of a random edge. Let 𝜆 be the
random variable denoting the source degree of a random edge. Let
𝜆𝑢 (0≤ 𝑢≤ 𝑚) be the probability that 𝜆 takes value𝑢. It is the
fraction of edges with source degree𝑢 among all edges, i.e.,
𝜆𝑢 = Λ𝑢𝑢˝𝑚
𝑤=0 Λ𝑤𝑤
= Λ𝑢𝑢
E(Λ).
Let𝜆(𝑥) be the generating function of𝜆, defined as
𝜆(𝑥) =
𝑚∑︁
𝑢=0
𝜆𝑢𝑥𝑢−1
= 1
E(Λ)
𝑚∑︁
𝑢=0
Λ𝑢𝑢𝑥𝑢−1
= Λ′(𝑥)
E(Λ) .
Similarly, let𝜑 be the random variable denoting the coded degree
of a random edge. Let𝜑𝑣 (0≤𝑣≤𝑛) be the probability that𝜑 takes
value𝑣. It is the fraction of edges with coded degree𝑣 among all
edges, i.e.,
𝜑𝑣 = Ψ𝑣𝑣˝𝑛
𝑤=0 Ψ𝑤𝑤
= Ψ𝑣𝑣
E(Ψ).
Let𝜑(𝑥) be the generating function of𝜑, defined as
𝜑(𝑥) =
𝑛∑︁
𝑣=0
𝜑𝑣𝑥𝑣−1
= 1
E(Ψ)
𝑛∑︁
𝑣=0
Ψ𝑣𝑣𝑥𝑣−1
= Ψ′(𝑥)
E(Ψ) .
Let us now consider Ψ(𝑥). Recall that each of the 𝑛 random
source symbols is mapped to the𝑖-th coded symbol independently
with probability𝜌(𝑖). The degree of the𝑖-th coded symbol thus fol-
lows binomial distribution, which takes𝑣 with probability 𝑛
𝑣
𝜌𝑣(𝑖)( 1−
𝜌(𝑖))𝑛−𝑣. Because we are interested in a random coded symbol, its

Practical Rateless Set Reconciliation ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia
index𝑖 takes 0, 1,...,𝑚 − 1 with equal probability 1/𝑚. By the law
of total probability,
Ψ𝑣 = 1
𝑚
𝑚−1∑︁
𝑖=0
𝑛
𝑣

𝜌𝑣(𝑖)( 1−𝜌(𝑖))𝑛−𝑣.
Plugging it into the definition of Ψ(𝑥), we get
Ψ(𝑥) =
𝑛∑︁
𝑣=0
Ψ𝑣𝑥𝑣
=
𝑛∑︁
𝑣=0
1
𝑚
𝑚−1∑︁
𝑖=0
𝑛
𝑣

𝜌𝑣(𝑖)( 1−𝜌(𝑖))𝑛−𝑣𝑥𝑣
= 1
𝑚
𝑚−1∑︁
𝑖=0
𝑛∑︁
𝑣=0
𝑛
𝑣

(𝑥𝜌(𝑖))𝑣(1−𝜌(𝑖))𝑛−𝑣
= 1
𝑚
𝑚−1∑︁
𝑖=0
(1−( 1−𝑥)𝜌(𝑖))𝑛.
Here, the last step is because of the binomial theorem. Plugging it
into the definition of𝜑(𝑥), we get
𝜑(𝑥) = 𝑛
𝑚E(Ψ)
𝑚−1∑︁
𝑖=0
𝜌(𝑖)(𝜌(𝑖)(𝑥− 1)+ 1)𝑛−1.
By the handshaking lemma, which says the sum of the degree of
all source symbols should equal the sum of the degree of all coded
symbols,
𝑚E(Ψ) =𝑚
𝑛∑︁
𝑣=0
Ψ𝑣𝑣 =𝑛
𝑚∑︁
𝑢=0
Λ𝑢𝑢 =𝑛E(Λ).
So, we can further simplify𝜑(𝑥) as
𝜑(𝑥) = 1
E(Λ)
𝑚−1∑︁
𝑖=0
𝜌(𝑖)(𝜌(𝑖)(𝑥− 1)+ 1)𝑛−1.
Next, let us consider Λ(𝑥). For a random source symbol, it is
mapped to the𝑖-th coded symbol independently with probability
𝜌(𝑖). Its degree Λ is thus the sum of independent Bernoulli random
variables with success probabilities𝜌(0),𝜌(1),...,𝜌 (𝑚− 1), which
follows Poisson binomial distribution. By an extension [32, § 5] to
Le Cam’s theorem [6], we can approximate this distribution with
a Poisson distribution of rate ˝𝑚−1
𝑖=0 𝜌(𝑖), i.e., E(Λ), with the total
variation distance between the two distributions tending to zero as
𝑚 goes to infinity. That is,
∞∑︁
𝑢=0
Λ𝑢−(E(Λ))𝑢𝑒−E(Λ)
𝑢!
 < 2
E(Λ)
𝑚−1∑︁
𝑖=0
𝜌2(𝑖).
When𝜌(𝑖) = 1
1+𝛼𝑖 for any𝛼 > 0, the right hand side of the inequal-
ity goes to zero as𝑚 goes to infinity.
Recall that the probability generating function of a Poisson ran-
dom variable with rate E(Λ) is
Λ(𝑥) =𝑒E(Λ)(𝑥−1).
Plugging it into the definition of𝜆(𝑥), we get
𝜆(𝑥) =𝑒E(Λ)(𝑥−1).
Let𝑞 denote the probability that a randomly chosen edge con-
nects to a source symbol that is not yet recovered. As decoding
progresses,𝑞 is updated according to the following function [15, 18]
𝑓(𝑞) =𝜆(1−𝜑(1−𝑞))
=𝑒−E(Λ)𝜑(1−𝑞)
=𝑒− ˝𝑚−1
𝑖=0 𝜌(𝑖)( 1−𝑞𝜌(𝑖))𝑛−1
.
Let us consider𝑓(𝑞) when the number of source symbols𝑛 goes
to infinity, and the ratio of coded and source symbols is fixed, i.e.,
𝜂 = 𝑚/𝑛 where𝜂 is a positive constant. Recall that 𝜌(𝑖) = 1
1+𝛼𝑖 .
Notice that
𝑒−𝑛𝑞
𝛼𝑖 ≤( 1−𝑞𝜌(𝑖))𝑛−1≤𝑒−(𝑛−1)𝑞
1+𝛼𝑖
holds for all 𝑛 ≥ 1,𝑖 ≥ 0,𝛼 > 0, and 0≤ 𝑞 ≤ 1. We use this
inequality and the squeeze theorem to calculate the limit of the
exponent of𝑓(𝑞) when𝑛 goes to infinity.
We first calculate the lower bound.
lim𝑛→∞− ln(𝑓(𝑞)) = lim𝑛→∞
𝜂𝑛−1∑︁
𝑖=0
𝜌(𝑖)( 1−𝑞𝜌(𝑖))𝑛−1
≥ lim𝑛→∞
𝜂𝑛−1∑︁
𝑖=0
𝜌(𝑖)𝑒−𝑛𝑞/(𝛼𝑖)
= lim𝑛→∞
𝜂𝑛−1∑︁
𝑖=0
1
(1+𝛼𝑖)𝑒𝑛𝑞/(𝛼𝑖)
= lim𝑛→∞
1
𝑛
𝜂𝑛−1∑︁
𝑖=0
1
( 1
𝑛+𝛼· 𝑖
𝑛)𝑒
𝑞
𝛼·𝑛
𝑖
=
∫ 𝜂
0
1
𝛼𝑥𝑒
𝑞
𝛼𝑥
𝑑𝑥
=− 1
𝛼 Ei

− 𝑞
𝛼𝜂

.
Here, Ei(·) is the exponential integral function.
We then calculate the upper bound.
lim𝑛→∞− ln(𝑓(𝑞)) = lim𝑛→∞
𝜂𝑛−1∑︁
𝑖=0
𝜌(𝑖)( 1−𝑞𝜌(𝑖))𝑛−1
≤ lim𝑛→∞
𝜂𝑛−1∑︁
𝑖=0
𝜌(𝑖)𝑒−(𝑛−1)𝑞
1+𝛼𝑖
= lim𝑛→∞
𝜂𝑛−1∑︁
𝑖=0
1
(1+𝛼𝑖)𝑒
(𝑛−1)𝑞
1+𝛼𝑖
= lim𝑛→∞
1
(𝑛− 1)𝑞
𝜂𝑛−1∑︁
𝑖=0
1
1+𝛼𝑖
(𝑛−1)𝑞𝑒
(𝑛−1)𝑞
1+𝛼𝑖
= 1
𝛼
∫ 𝛼𝜂/𝑞
0
1
𝑥𝑒 1/𝑥𝑑𝑥
=− 1
𝛼 Ei

− 𝑞
𝛼𝜂

.

ACM SIGCOMM ’24, August 4–8, 2024, Sydney, NSW, Australia Lei Yang, Yossi Gilad, and Mohammad Alizadeh
By the squeeze theorem,
lim𝑛→∞− ln(𝑓(𝑞)) =− 1
𝛼 Ei

− 𝑞
𝛼𝜂

.
Plugging it into𝑓(𝑞), we have
lim𝑛→∞𝑓(𝑞) =𝑒
1
𝛼 Ei

− 𝑞
𝛼𝜂

.
By standard results [18, § 2][15, § III.B] of density evolution analysis,
if
𝑓(𝑞) <𝑞
holds for all𝑞∈( 0, 1], then the probability that all source symbols
are recovered when the decoding process terminates tends to 1 as𝑛
goes to infinity. Plugging in the closed-form result oflim𝑛→∞𝑓(𝑞),
we get the condition
𝑒
1
𝛼 Ei

− 𝑞
𝛼𝜂

<𝑞,
which should hold for all𝑞∈( 0, 1] for the success probability to
converge to 1. □
We refer readers to the literature [ 18] for a formal treatment
on density evolution, in particular the result [18, § 2.2] that∀𝑞∈
(0, 1] : 𝑓(𝑞) <𝑞 is a sufficient condition for the success probability
to converge to 1, which we use directly in our proof. Here, we give
some intuition. Recall that𝑞 is the probability that a random edge
in the bipartite graph connects to a source symbol that is not yet
recovered. Let𝑝 be the probability that a random edge connects
to a coded symbol that is not yet decoded, i.e., has more than one
neighbors that are not yet recovered. Density evolution iteratively
updates𝑞 and𝑝 by simulating the peeling decoder. For a random
edge with source degree𝑢, the source symbol it connects to is not
yet recovered if none of the source symbol’s other𝑢− 1 neighbors
is decoded. This happens with probability 𝑝𝑢−1. Similarly, for a
random edge with coded degree𝑣, the coded symbol it connects to
is not decoded if not all of the coded symbol’s other𝑣− 1 neighbors
are recovered. This happens with probability 1−( 1−𝑞)𝑣−1.
Because𝑞 and𝑝 are the probabilities with regard to a random
edge, we take the mean over the distributions of source and coded
degrees of the edge, and the results are the new values of𝑞 and𝑝
after one iteration of peeling. In particular, in each iteration [15, 18],
𝑝←
∑︁
𝑣
𝜑𝑣

1−( 1−𝑞)𝑣−1

,
𝑞←
∑︁
𝑢
𝜆𝑢𝑝𝑢−1.
By the definition of the generating functions of𝜑 and𝜆, the above
equations can be written as
𝑝← 1−𝜑(1−𝑞),
𝑞←𝜆(𝑝).
Combine the two equations, and we get
𝑞←𝜆(1−𝜑(1−𝑞)).
Notice that its right hand side is 𝑓(𝑞). Intuitively, by requiring
𝑓(𝑞) <𝑞 for all𝑞∈( 0, 1], we make sure that the peeling decoder
always makes progress, i.e., the non-recovery probability 𝑞 gets
smaller, regardless of the current𝑞. Conversely, if the inequality
has a fixed point 𝑞∗ such that 𝑓(𝑞∗) = 𝑞∗, then the decoder will
stop making progress after recovering(1−𝑞∗)-fraction of source
symbols, implying a failure.