BeeKEM: Decentralized, Secure and Efficient Group Key Agreement
Derek Yen∗,1, Andr ´es F ´abrega∗,2, Liangrun Da 3, Martin Kleppmann 4,
John Mumm 3, Sunoo Park 1, Brooklyn Zelenka 3
1New York University,{derek.yen, sunoo.park}@nyu.edu
2Cornell University,andresfg@cs.cornell.edu
3Ink & Switch,me@liangrunda.com,{john.mumm, brooklyn}@inkandswitch.com
4University of Cambridge,martin.kleppmann@cst.cam.ac.uk
Abstract—Group key agreement protocols are essential for
modern secure messaging. Most existing group key agreement
protocols assume a centralized model with a semi-trusted
service that mediates the communication. This is efficient, but
problematic for some important applications, since a central
service can be a choke point for surveillance and censorship.
There is a nascent literature ondecentralizedgroup key agree-
ment that avoids such reliance, but existing proposals either do
not scale, with update costs linear or quadratic in the group
size, or lack proofs of security. Centralized protocols can offer
much lower (logarithmic) cost.
We present BeeKEM, the first decentralized group key
agreement protocol with logarithmic update cost in the com-
mon case (degrading to linear in the worst case) and proofs
of security. We provide an open-source implementation and
demonstrate that it is competitive with OpenMLS. BeeKEM
opens the door for a range of communication and collaboration
applications offering not only end-to-end encryption, but also
metadata privacy and censorship resistance.
1. Introduction
Continuous group key agreement (CGKA) is the cryp-
tographic backbone of modern secure group messaging pro-
tocols, which are used by billions of people for their private
communications. For example, Messaging Layer Security
(MLS) [10] is an IETF standard adopted by RCS on iOS and
Android, Cisco Webex, Wire, and others [14], [22], [36]. A
CGKA protocol allows the members of a group to establish
shared keys for message encryption, to add or remove group
members, and to periodically update their keys to achieve
forward secrecy and post-compromise security [7].
Most popular messaging protocols, like MLS, rely on a
centralized delivery service through which all communica-
tion is routed. The central service maintains consistent state
between users by imposing a total order on past operations,
such as member addition, removal, or key update. This is
possible due to the service’s global view of network com-
munications. Conversely, an adversary who compromises the
*. These authors contributed equally to this work.
service can observe all communication patterns, selectively
delay or drop messages, and deny service. Although such an
adversary may not be able to read message contents if end-
to-end encrypted (as in MLS), the service is nonetheless a
potent choke point for censorship and metadata surveillance.
The potential for censorship and surveillance is lower in
peer-to-peer communication, but CGKA is designed for the
centralized setting. An emerging literature ondecentralized
CGKA (DCGKA) removes this dependence on a central
authority, allowing users’ devices to communicate via any
channel, including peer-to-peer or via anonymity networks.
Weidner et al. [34] recently introduced security definitions
and a state-of-the-art protocol construction for DCGKA.
Unfortunately, their approach is not scalable: key updates
incur a communication cost ofO(n)wherenis the number
of group members, while for MLS the cost isO(logn).
Prior work has shown that group chats with thousands of
members are used in practice, in contexts such as political
protests where censorship resistance can be essential [4], yet
O(n)overhead would be prohibitive in such contexts.
We introduce BeeKEM, the first DCGKA scheme with
proofs of security that matches MLS’sO(logn)update
cost in the common case. In the case of concurrent key
updates, BeeKEM’s performance degrades gracefully, in the
worst case reachingO(n), which is on par with Weidner
et al.’s protocol [34]. We give a formal specification of
BeeKEM and prove it secure under the existing DCGKA
security definitions [34]. We also provide an open-source,
production-ready implementation whose performance we
evaluate against OpenMLS (a popular MLS implementa-
tion) [30] and the original DCGKA implementation [34].
In more detail, our contributions are as follows.
•CONSTRUCTION: We introduceBeeKEM, a new
DCGKA schemewhere the communication and
computation cost of key updates isO(logn)when
updates are sequential, degrading gradually toO(n)
as the degree of concurrency increases (§4).
•MODELING: We define anew security property
for DCGKA (§3) calledcross-fork security, which
defends against a type of attack unique to the decen-
tralized setting. We also introducenew extensions

of existing DCGKA security definitions(§3).
•PROVABLESECURITY: We giverigorous security
proofsfor BeeKEM (§5 and Appendix B).
•IMPLEMENTATION: We provide anopen-source,
production-ready implementationof BeeKEM 1
that can support a wide range of decentralized end-
to-end encrypted collaboration applications.
•EVALUATION: We evaluate our performance with re-
spect to Weidner et al. [34] and OpenMLS [30] (§6).
BeeKEM performs competitively with OpenMLS
when connectivity is good. It also handles partitions
that would take MLS offline, at a cost in efficiency.
•EXTENSIONS: We sketch constructions called
BeeKEMPQ and BeeKEM FS which respectively
achieve post-quantum security and stronger forward
secrecy (§7).
Broader Impacts.BeeKEM can be used in any applica-
tion that requires end-to-end encryption (E2EE) for efficient
group communication. It is suitable for messaging, but it can
also support other group collaboration applications such as
collaborative calendars, text editors, spreadsheets, and more.
A core impact of building BeeKEM is to bring efficient
E2EE to a wide range of decentralizedlocal-first[26]
collaboration software. Applications such as an E2EE col-
laborative document editor Patchwork 2 have already been
built upon our work which would not be viable withO(n)
communication overhead in a group or organization with,
say, thousands of members.
2. Why Decentralize?
MLS [12] and other CGKA-based protocols assume a
centralized delivery service, as noted in Section 1. The
service may consist of one or more servers. This assumption
is suitable when all members of the communicating group
are able to reliably connect to a central service. If some
users are offline, CGKA protocols allow the users who are
online to continue communicating. The design of TreeKEM,
the CGKA underlying MLS [13], heavily relies on the
assumption of this ordering enforced by the central service.
The Problem.In centralized protocols, users may be
online, but unable to communicate with the delivery service,
and thus cut off from essential communication. For example,
what if a user can communicate with a subset of other users,
perhaps via a local network, but not with the service?
This type of scenario is of growing practical importance.
In early 2026, Iran enacted a months-long nationwide
Internet shutdown that allowed people inside the country
to access domestic Internet services, but limited access
to the international Internet to a few people with special
privileges [32]. Since 2026, Russia has imposed intermittent
Internet restrictions with the aim of pushing domestic users
1. https://github.com/inkandswitch/keyhive/tree/main/beekem
2. https://www.inkandswitch.com/project/patchwork/
towards a national messaging app that supports state surveil-
lance [33]. Some users circumvent such measures by use of
Starlink and similar satellite services, at great risk—being
caught with a Starlink terminal in Iran can mean death [32].
Protesters in Hong Kong have attempted to use mesh
networking apps to organize in spite of Internet shutdowns
in 2014 [9] and 2019 [4], but these apps were found to
have weak security [3]. Nevertheless, reliance on local net-
working technology, if implemented well, has the potential
to enable users to circumvent government censorship, and
secure communication based on mesh networking is an
important subject of ongoing research [23].
Anetwork partitionoccurs when a set of users is split
into two or more subsets such that communication within
each subset is possible, but communication across subsets
is not. In the example of Iran, the Internet shutdown creates
a network partition where one subset of users is inside the
country and the other subset is outside. With a centralized
protocol like MLS, the delivery service will sit on one side
of the partition or the other (or be rendered ineffective
by being split across the partition). Consider the impact
of a partition on a chat group including both international
journalists and sources within Iran: one of those two subsets
loses the ability to add/remove members, update keys, or to
communicate, while the Internet shutdown is in effect.
Beyond these specific examples, watchdog organisations
and the United Nations have expressed concern over the
recent global rise in Internet shutdowns, reporting a record
313 shutdowns across 52 countries just in 2025 (e.g., [1],
[29]). Moreover, even absent shutdowns, network unrelia-
bility remains a significant problem at a global scale [19].
The Solution.A decentralized protocol like BeeKEM
overcomes these limitations. During a network partition,
each subset of users can continue using the features of the
app as normal. Only users within the same subset will be
able to see each others’ messages while the partition lasts,
but once connectivity is restored, they are able to sync and
catch up on any activity that occurred in the other subsets.
The decentralized approach does not assume any par-
ticular network topology, so any communication channel
can be used. For example, in the case of a national Inter-
net shutdown, one option would be to have two delivery
services, one inside the country and one outside, enabling
communication among domestic and foreign users, respec-
tively. Communication between the two could occasionally
be bridged, for example, by those with privileged access to
both networks, or by volunteers willing to temporarily put a
satellite Internet terminal on their roof for an hour at night.
Another advantage of a decentralized architecture is
metadata privacy. Anonymity networks such as Tor [18] or
Loopix/Nym [31] allow one-to-one communication without
revealing to a network observer who is communicating, and
generalizations to group communication exist [21]. These
systems take great care to avoid any single node knowing
who is communicating, lest it be compromised. A central-
ized delivery service, even if accessed over an anonymity
network, can be a potent target for adversaries as it can see
2

all communication. A decentralized protocol can run over
an anonymity network without creating such a weakness.
3. Model and Definitions for DCGKA
Section 3.1 recalls syntax introduced by Weidner et
al. [34]. Section 3.2 introduces our communication model,
and Section 3.3 overviews security properties for DCGKAs,
including both prior definitions and our novel contributions.
3.1. DCGKA Syntax
A DCGKA scheme consists of a tuple of algorithms
that provide support for the basic functioning of a mes-
saging group, including initialization, membership changes,
and rotating secrets. The DCGKA abstraction modelslocal
operations run by group members, which compose into a
multi-party protocol. Each user is identified by some unique
identifieridthat belongs to a set of application-specific IDs
I(e.g., public keys, usernames, or phone numbers), and
each holds a local state, denoted byst. A DCGKA scheme
Πconsists of the algorithms listed below, which are run
locally by a useridwith statest(whom we call thecalling
user). All algorithms return acontrol message, which the
calling user broadcasts upon algorithm completion. 3
•Initialization:st 0 ←Π.Init(id)is invoked when the
calling user has just joined a group; it takes as input
idand returns an initial statest 0 for userid.
•Group Creation:(st ′,R,M,S)←Π.Create(st,I)
takes as inputstand a set of user IDsid∈I⊆I,
and returns an updated statest ′ for the calling user, a
control messageRto be broadcast to the other group
members, adirect message setM={(id ′,M)} id′∈I
(indicating messageMto be sent to userid ′ fromid),
and a newgroup secret 4 S∈S.
•Member Addition:(st ′,R,M,S)←Π.Add(st,id ′)
takes as input the calling user’s statestand the ID
id′ of the group member to be added, and returns
(st′,R,M,S)as defined underCreate.
•Member Removal:(st ′,R,M,S)←
Π.Remove(st,id)takes as inputstand the ID
id′ of the group member to be removed, and returns
(st′,R,M,S)as defined underCreate.
•Update:(st ′,R,M,S)←Π.Update(st)rotates
the group secret; it takes as inputstand returns
(st′,R,M,S)as defined underCreate.
•Message Processing:(st ′,R,M,S s,S r)←
Π.Process(st,id,R,M)is invoked when a new
control message is received; it takes as inputst, the
(authenticated) IDid ′ of the sender of the message,
the control messageR, and the direct messageM
fromid′ to the calling user (orεif there is no direct
3.Direct messages, in contrast, are “chat messages” sent between users.
4. This is also often referred to as theupdate secretin the (D)CGKA
literature; we use the termgroup secretas we find it more intuitively
contrasts withpersonal secretsheld by individual users.
message); and it returnsst,M,Mas defined under
Create, and new secretsS s,S r for the sender and
recipient of the control message, respectively.
Without loss of generality, our exposition considers a
single group. Multiple groups can be realized by multiple
single-group protocols run independently in parallel.
3.2. Authenticated Causal Broadcast (ACB)
We work in the communication model ofauthenticated
causal broadcast(ACB) [34]. In the decentralized setting,
there is no central authority to impose a global ordering
on messages; messages can arrive in different orders for
different users, e.g., due to a network partition. We therefore
do not assume that messages arrive in the same order for
all users, only that they arrive incausal order.
Definition 1(Causal order).Thecausal orderis a partial
order over operations, denoted≺. We have thata≺b(“a
causally precedesb” or “bcausally depends upona”) if:
•aandbwere each performed by the same group
member, who performedabeforeb; or
•the group member who performedbdid so after
having received the message corresponding toa; or
•(transitivity) there existscsuch thata≺candc≺b.
If neithera≺bnorb≺a, then we sayaandbare
concurrent, denoteda∼b. We call the causal ordering
between operations theircausal relationship.
An ACB has three properties. First, it delivers messages
to users in a causal order: ifa≺b, thenaalways arrives
beforeb. (There is no guarantee about concurrent opera-
tions, which may arrive in any order, and may be ordered
differently for different group members.) Second, an ACB
isreliable: messages eventually arrive. Third, it provides
authentication: a message’s receiver is assured of who sent
it and that the message was not modified in transit.
3.3. DCGKA Security Goals & Threat Model
The high-level objective of a DCGKA scheme is to
ensure the confidentiality of update secretsS. We target
the standard CGKA security properties of (1)Correctness,
(2)Forward Secrecy, and (3)Post-Compromise Security. We
additionally introduce and achieve a novel security property
unique to the decentralized setting, which we call (4)Cross-
Fork Security(CFS).
Intuitively, CFS considers attackers who can view group
state on both sides of a partition; such attackers can use
state from users compromised on one side of the partition
to attack the group secret on the other side of the partition.
This type of attack was first noted informally by Weidner et
al. [34], but they do not formally define it and their scheme
is not secure against it. Alwen et al. [8] develop a scheme
with security against this type of attack, which they call a
cross-fork attack, albeit in a different (centralized) setting
from DCGKA. BeeKEM is the first DCGKA scheme with
security against this type of attack; we formally define CFS
and prove that BeeKEM achieves a form of it.
3

Concurrency vs. Security in BeeKEM.BeeKEM’s ro-
bustness to concurrency and network unreliability across
long sequences of operations requires users to retain secrets
longer than is optimal for security, thus weakening Forward
Secrecy. Section 7 characterizes this tradeoff, explains why
it may be inherent for DCGKA schemes with sublinear
update costs, and describes an alternative system design
BeeKEMFS that strengthens BeeKEM’s security properties
to full Forward Secrecy (and Cross-Fork Security) at the
expense of robustness to concurrency.
The rest of this section informally defines our security
goals, later formalized in Figure 3 in §5. Forward Secrecy
and Post-Compromise Security as discussed below are gen-
eralizations of the respective standard definitions (e.g. [7])
to the decentralized setting, as presented in [34].
Terminology.A user’sviewcomprises i) the history of
operations; ii) group membership; and iii) the group secret
S(possiblyS=⊥). Users’ views evolve as they process
operations. Aforkoccurs when users diverge in their views
of operation history; users with the same view during a fork
belong to the samebranch.
1. Correctness.We define correctness for each DCGKA
operation. The below definitions state requirements follow-
ing an honest execution of each operation with calling user
id, assuming sequential operations in isolation. For concur-
rent operations, behavior is specified by amaterialization, a
function which dictates the effects of concurrent operations.
•Create : All users in the initial set of membersIcan
access all subsequent group secrets (until removed).
•Add ,Init : An added member, upon runningInit, can
access all subsequent group secrets (until removed).
•Remove : A removed user can no longer access group
secrets subsequent to their removal.
•Update : The group secret is well defined (S̸=⊥)
and accessible to all group members inid’s view.
•Process : Afteridprocesses the message of an op-
erationopbyid ′,idhas a view of the group in
which group membership and the group secretSare
identical toid ′ immediately after performingop.
We define an additional correctness property which we
callCorrectness Under Concurrency (CUC), which states
that if the group is partitioned and updates are performed
on separate branches, after the partition heals, each userid
can access every group secretSresulting from anUpdate
performed by a user whose view includesidas a member.
CUC can be in tension with the security properties below.
BeeKEM is parameterized by akey retention parameter
κ, where users retain theirκmost recent personal secrets,
in order to access group secrets from other branches. CUC
is only possible when users retain all personal secrets (κ=
∞). We define a weaker notionκ-CUC, which states that
a useridmay recover updates from branches that fork at
a point causally subsequent to theκ-th most recentUpdate
performed byid. Then,∞-CUC≡CUC.
2. Forward Secrecy (FS).Forward Secrecyin the decen-
tralized setting requires that: a given group secretScannot
be accessed by an attacker who has compromised a set of
users where each user has processed an update causally
subsequent to the update that establishedS.
BeeKEM achieves a parametrized form of FS adapted
for decentralized settings with high concurrency. It does not
achieve full FS for two reasons, both of which relate to
the fact that to support CUC, users retain personal secrets
for longer than is ideal for security. The first reason also
arises in centralized TreeKEM [7], and relates to users who
update infrequently. The second reason seems inherent to
the decentralized setting, and can be partially addressed by
tuning a tradeoff between CUC and FS with a choice of
parameter. Our alternative system design BeeKEM FS (§7)
fully addresses both issues at the cost of CUC.
The First Reason.Correctness requires a group member
who has not performed an update in a long time 5 to retain
access to all group secrets during that time. If such a user is
compromised, all those secrets may be exposed. The weaker
notion of FS achieved by TreeKEM is calledForward
Secrecy with Updates (FSU)[7], which weakens FS by
stipulating that, if a useridis compromised, the adversary
cannot access secrets prior to the most recent updateby
userid. By contrast, full FS protects secrets prior to the
most recent update byanyuser processed byid. 6
We adapt FSU to the decentralized setting: a group
secretSestablished by Updateopcannot be accessed by
an attacker who has compromised a set of users where each
user has performed an update causally subsequent toop.
The Second Reason.Consider a group where users per-
formUpdateoperations during a two-way partition. Users in
one half of the partition will produce group secrets which
are accessible to Alice. In the other half, updates will be
made to Alice’s last known secretsk old from before the fork.
When the partition heals, to catch up on the other partition’s
messages, Alice needs those group secrets, which she can
access only if she retainedsk old. If Alice did anUpdate
during the partition and deleted her old secretsk old for the
sake of FS, she would lose her ability to “catch up.”
Alwen et al. propose a change to TreeKEM in [7] which
strengthens its FSU to FS. Section 7 discusses an analogous
decentralized construction, BeeKEMFS, which has the draw-
back of restricting users’ ability to access group secrets on
forks. (Forks are not a concern in TreeKEM’s centralized
context.) We conjecture the tradeoff between CUC and FS
may be inherent in decentralized settings.
3. Post-Compromise Security (PCS).PCS requires: if an
attacker compromises the state of one or more users, if each
compromised user performs anUpdate, the attacker cannot
access any group secret causally after all suchUpdates.
5. By “long time,” we mean “over manyUpdateoperations.”
6. Note that FSU does not mention “processing” updates because a user
idinstantaneously processes their own update.
4

4. Cross-Fork Security (CFS).CFS is a novel security
property we introduce which is applicable in decentralized
settings. It formalizes security againstcross-fork attacks,
where state from a compromised user is used to attack the
group secret defined by a concurrent update [8]. We first
state CFS for a single compromised user to build intuition
before giving the full definition. CFS states that if the group
forks into branchesb 1,...,b m and the attacker compromises
a useridwho has performed an updateopon branchb ′,
the attacker cannot access the group secrets ofUpdate
operations on any branchb ∗ which diverged fromb ′ prior
toop. For example, if Alice and Bob concurrently perform
updates then an attacker obtains Alice’s state, CFS prevents
the attacker from obtaining Bob’s new group secret (or any
subsequent group secret established on Bob’s branch). CFS
only applies while a fork is active; compromises after a fork
heals are covered by FS.
For multiple compromised users, CFS states that if
the group forks into branchesb 1,...,b m and the attacker
compromises one or more usersid(across branchesB),
each with a most recent update operationop id, the attacker
cannot access any group secrets defined on a branchb ∗
which forked fromBcausally prior to each respectiveop id.
5.κ-FSU andκ-CFS.As discussed earlier, key reten-
tion is necessary for CUC. However, such key retention is
incompatible with FS and CFS. We define weaker security
notions for FS and CFS which we callκ-FSUandκ-CFS.
Both are parameterized byκand are equivalent to FSU and
CFS whenκ= 1; we define them with respect to a single
compromise for brevity, but the multi-compromise definition
extends the definitions of FSU and CFS in the natural way.
κ-FSU requires that: if an attacker compromises the
state of a userid, they cannot access update secrets from
update operations prior to theκ-th most recent update byid.
Likewise,κ-CFS requires: when the group state forks, if an
attacker compromises the state of a userid, the attacker
cannot access any group secrets defined on forks which
occurred before theκ-th most recent update byid.
When used with key retention parameterκ, BeeKEM
achievesκ-CUC,κ-FSU, andκ-CFS. Higher values ofκ
degrade the FS and CFS properties but offer greater access
to group secrets defined under forking (stronger CUC). Our
variant construction BeeKEM FS (§7) achieves full FS and
CFS, but has no support for accessing group secrets defined
under forking (i.e.,κ= 1). To summarize symbolically:
FSU:κ-FSU⇐···⇐1-FSU⇔FSU⇐FS
CFS:κ-CFS⇐···⇐1-CFS⇔CFS
Example.Figure 1 illustrates the three security properties.
Threat Model.We follow the standard threat model from
prior DCGKA literature [34], [35]. We assume users execute
the protocol honestly. We consider an adversary who may
compromise users of the group to obtain a snapshot of their
local state, and who may choose when the ACB delivers
messages (without interfering with ACB guarantees; see
id id id×
Figure 1. An example operation graph for BeeKEM withk= 2, showing
which group secrets are protected under which security properties when a
useridhas their state compromised at×. Nodes denoteUpdateoperations;
nodes labeledidrepresent updates performed byid; edges denote the
causal order (written left to right to follow time). Blue (solid) boxes are
protected under2-FSU; red (horizontal stripe) boxes under PCS; and orange
(vertical stripe) boxes under2-CFS. The group secrets of unboxed nodes
are accessible to the attacker.
§3.2). Control over the ACB implies the adversary can cause
arbitrary network partitions.
4. Our Construction: BeeKEM
Section 4.1 provides an initial overview of the BeeKEM
protocol and its basic operations. Section 4.2 discusses
cryptographic primitives and requirements of BeeKEM. Sec-
tion 4.3 describes the BeeKEM construction in detail.
4.1. Design Overview
The BeeKEM Tree.BeeKEM belongs to the Asyn-
chronous Ratcheting Trees (ART) family of protocols, which
also include the TreeKEM protocol used in MLS [7], [15].
As such, our scheme is underpinned by one primary data
structure: a binary tree that encodes group membership and
the current group secret, which we call theBeeKEM tree.
The BeeKEM treeBis a perfect binary tree that stores
the group secretSencrypted at the root. Each user keeps a
local copy of the tree, which they update as they perform and
receive operations. Each leaf is either empty or corresponds
to a group member, containing their unique user identifierid
and public keypk id. The associated secret keysk id is also
stored in the user’s local state. User IDs are fixed throughout
the protocol, but user keys can evolve. The core property of
the BeeKEM tree is given below.
Invariant 1.Access to the private key associated with a
nodev(leaf or inner node) is sufficient to decrypt the
encrypted private key of any nodeuon the direct path ofv.
In particular, Invariant 1 implies that possession of any
personal secretsk id suffices to access the group secretS
at the root. Thus, any group member can (locally, without
interaction) recoverSby starting at their leaf and moving up
the tree, iteratively decrypting inner-node secrets. We refer
to secret keys of inner nodes assubgroup secrets.
Next, we describe how BeeKEM implements the
DCGKA operations defined in Section 3.
Update & Process.For post-compromise security, group
members must periodically rotate their keys using the
Updateoperation (§3). AnUpdateoperation in BeeKEM
consists ofrotating all secrets in the path from a leaf to
the root. When a useridperforms an update, they first
generated=⌈log 2n⌉new public-private key pairs, one
5

per tree level; note that this leads to a new(pk id,sk id)and
a newS. They then overwrite each node in the path from
their leaf to the root by storing theℓ-th new key pair at
the node on theℓ-th level 7; as before, with public keys in
the clear, and private keys encrypted. Crucially, each secret
key is encrypted in a way that preserves Invariant 1. As
such, all group members retain access toSafter any update.
The updating user then broadcasts all new public keys and
ciphertexts (i.e. encrypted secret keys) to other members of
the group, who modify their local version of the tree on
these nodes accordingly (using theProcessoperation (§3)).
“Blanking” Nodes.When the tree is initialized or ex-
panded, its new nodes are “blank,” without any associated
data.AddandRemoveoperations can “blank” nodes by
removing their associated data. When aleafnode is blanked,
we call it atombstone, and it is given a special value indicat-
ing its former association with a certain user, distinguishing
it from an “empty” node that never had associated data.
Blanked inner nodes look like empty nodes.
Adding & Removing Members.TheAddandRemove
operations work similarly, by editing all of a leaf’s ancestors
up to the root every time a leaf is edited. For anAdd
operation, the calling useridassociates the new userid ′ with
an empty leaf of the tree,8 labeling the leaf withid′ and their
initial public keypk id′ (obtained through our assumed PKI).
Then, the calling userblanksthat leaf’s ancestor nodes, up to
and including the root. This is done to preserve Invariant 1:
at the start of theAddoperation, the ancestors of the leaf of
id′ contain secret keys whichid′ cannot access. By blanking
the leaf’s ancestors, the group secret becomes undefined
(S=⊥). The calling user then broadcasts these changes to
other members. ARemoveoperation works similarly: the
calling user blanks the leaf of the removed member and all
its ancestors, and broadcasts this. Immediately after anAdd
orRemoveoperation, the group secret is undefined; it will
be reestablished by the nextUpdateoperation. 9
Replaying Operations & Handling Concurrency.The
central challenge of the decentralized setting is that con-
current operations may be delivered in any order. After
a user performs an operation, they broadcast a message
containing the data necessary for other users to implement
corresponding changes to their copy of the BeeKEM tree.
In general, if different users receive operations in different
orders, they may end up with different trees. In contrast, our
construction carefully ensures all users who have received
the same set of operations arrive at the same local state.
BeeKEM handles concurrency by detecting concurrent
operations andreplayingthem in an order independent of
the order in which they were received. BeeKEM records
the entire history of operations in a second data structure, a
7. Leaves are at level0and the root is at leveld−1.
8. If there are no more empty leaves, the tree size is expanded. See §4.3.
9. In some CGKA schemes, the group secret is also defined afterCreate,
AddandRemove; it is possible to simulate this behavior in BeeKEM
by having the calling user immediately perform anUpdateafter these
other operations. BeeKEM is simpler to understand and analyze with group
secrets only defined byUpdateoperations.
directed acyclic graph (DAG) which encodes the causal rela-
tionships between operations and enables efficient detection
of concurrency. We call this data structure theoperation
graphand denote it byG. Each user maintains a local copy
ofG, which is extended whenever they perform a local op-
eration or process an operation message from another user.
Users traverseGto replay concurrent operations, such that
users observe a consistent ordering; §4.3 provides details.
4.2. Building Blocks
Notation.λ∈Nis a security parameter andnegldenotes
a negligible function (inλ). For brevity, we generally omit
the security parameter from algorithm inputs.
Assumptions.We assume a public key infrastructure
(PKI) which allows a useridto provide a public key
pkid which can later be obtained by another userid ′. The
PKI will be used when callingAddto include the targeted
user’s initial key in the group. We further assume a reliable
broadcast protocol (RBP) [27], such as a gossip network
that all users are part of.
Non-Interactive Key Exchange (NIKE).Anon-
interactive key exchangescheme allows two parties, given
knowledge of each other’s public keys, to establish a shared
symmetric key. It is “non-interactive” in the sense that, once
the public keys have been published, no further commu-
nication is necessary for the two users to compute their
shared key. Diffie-Hellman key exchange [17] is a notable
example of a NIKE scheme. In general, a NIKE is a pair of
algorithmsNIKE := (Kg,SharedKey)as follows:
•(pk,sk)← $ NIKE.Kg: A randomized algorithm that
takesλas implicit input and outputs a key pair(pk,sk).
•dk←NIKE.SharedKey(pk,sk): A deterministic algo-
rithm that takes as input a public key from one key
pair and a secret key from another, and returns a shared
secret key which we denotedk(for “derived key”).
TheNIKE.SharedKeyalgorithm has asymmetry property:
Pr
(pk1,sk1)
(pk2,sk2)
[SharedKey(pk1,sk 2) =SharedKey(pk 2,sk 1)] = 1,
for(pk 1,sk 1),(pk 2,sk 2)← $ NIKE.Kg. We will rely on
HKR-CKS security of NIKE schemes, which requires that
an attacker given a set of public keys cannot distinguish
between actual shared keys and keys randomly sampled
from the shared key keyspace. We refer readers to [20] for
a formal definition. At a high level, HKR-CKS adversaryA
has a user registration oracle (which returns the generated
public key), and a challenge/test oracle that takes as input
a pair of registered users and returns their shared key (in
the real world) or a freshly generated key (in the ideal
world). An adversary wins if they can tell which of the
two worlds they are in; we denoteA’s advantage in doing
so by Adv hkr-cks
NIKE (B).
6

Symmetric Encryption (SE).A symmetric encryption
scheme is a tuple of algorithmsSE := (Kg,Enc,Dec):
•sk← $ SE.Kg: A randomized algorithm that takesλas
implicit input and outputs a (symmetric) secret keysk.
•ct← $ SE.Enc(sk,m): A randomized algorithm that
takes as input a secret keyskand a messagem, and
returns a ciphertextct.
•m←SE.Dec(sk,ct): A deterministic algorithm that
takes as input a secret keyskand a ciphertextct.
We require standard correctness of SE: for any messagem,
Prsk←$ SE.Kg [SE.Dec(sk,SE.Enc(sk,m)) =m]>1−negl.
BeeKEM requires that the shared keys obtained from
the NIKE are compatible with the key space used in the
symmetric encryption scheme. That is, if one uses the NIKE
SharedKeyto furnish derived keysdkand uses them as
secret keysskfor encryption and decryption underSE, the
encryption and decryption algorithms of the scheme still
function correctly and securely. 10
We require standard multi-user IND-CPA [11] security
of SE, which requires that an attacker that can obtain en-
cryptions of chosen messages for any user cannot distinguish
the encryptions of any two challenge messages of the same
length for any user. Adv mu-cpa
SE (C)denotes the advantage of
adversaryAin the IND-CPA game.
Hash DAG.Ahash DAGis a directed acyclic graph
(DAG) in which nodes are (formatted) strings containing
hashes of other nodes, which are treated as their predeces-
sors in the graph. Hash DAGs may be used to represent a
history of events and the causal relationships between them,
where the event with nodeahas its hash contained in the
node of eventbifa≺b. Intuitively, being able to write
the hash ofain the description ofbrequires thataexisted
prior tob, thus implyinga≺bby the definition of causal
order (Definition 1 (Bullet 2)). More generally, there is a
path frombtoain a hash DAG if and only ifa≺b.
BeeKEM constructs its operation graphGas a hash
DAG. When a user performs an operation, they construct a
string representation of that operation, including its author,
the payload of data associated with that operation, and the
hashes of its predecessor operations. Users also track the
head operationsof their copy ofG, where theheadsof
a hash DAG are the nodes which have no successors; a
(nonempty) hash DAG always has one or more heads. Head
operations are the most recent operations a user is aware of.
ACB from Hash DAG over RBP.Our BeeKEM imple-
mentation uses a standard construction of an ACB from an
RBP (a weaker communication model) using a digital sig-
nature scheme and a hash DAG (the operation graph) [24],
[25]. Hence, while our proofs assume an ACB, our imple-
mentation only requires an RBP.
10. In our implementation of BeeKEM (see §6), we use Elliptic-Curve
Diffie-Hellman as the NIKE and ChaCha20-Poly1305 as the symmetric
encryption scheme.
Materialization Function.Recall again that the primary
challenge of the decentralized setting is managing concur-
rency. Concurrent messages may be received and processed
by users in any order, but users must converge upon the
same group state (i.e., BeeKEM tree) regardless of the order
messages arrive.
Formally, a user’s BeeKEM tree should be a function
only of their operation graph. This deterministic mapping
from sets of operation messages to BeeKEM trees is called
thematerializationfunction. Materialization is invoked dur-
ingProcess; we call the process of reconciling a batch of
concurrent operations amerge. BeeKEM’s materialization
function is designed to have the following properties:
•Strong convergence: Two users who have observed the
same set of operations compute identical tree state,
regardless of operations’ order of receipt. (Note that
this implies agreement not just on the current group
members but also their placement among the leaves.)
•Remove liveness: If a user is targeted for removal
in aRemoveoperation among a batch of concurrent
operations, that user is not present in the group after
the merge of those operations.
•Add liveness under Remove-wins: If a user is targeted
for addition in anAddoperation among a batch of
concurrent operations, that user is present in the group
after merge—unless that same user is targeted by a
concurrentRemove, which takes precedence.
•No secret after merge: There is no new group secret
defined after the merge of concurrent operations. (Only
anUpdatecan define a group secret.)
Readers familiar with conflict-free replicated data types
(CRDTs) may recognize concepts and vocabulary from that
literature here. BeeKEM is in fact a CRDT.
4.3. Detailed Description of BeeKEM
First, we introduce the two data structures BeeKEM
relies upon (§4.3.1); second, we describe how BeeKEM
implements the operations of a DCGKA scheme (§4.3.2);
and third, we explain how BeeKEM handles concurrency
(§4.3.3). BeeKEM’s complete specification in pseudocode
is in Fig. 6 and 7 in App. A.
4.3.1. BeeKEM’s Data Structures.BeeKEM is supported
by two primary data structures (introduced in §4.1): the
BeeKEM treeB, which encodes group membership and
the update secret; and the operation graphG, which stores
operation history and causal relationships.
BeeKEM Tree.The BeeKEM tree is a perfect binary tree
Bthat stores an encryption ofSat the root whenS̸=⊥.
Each group member maintains a local copy ofB.
We discuss the structure of a tree of depthd=⌈log 2n⌉.
A leaf stores(id,pk id)if it is associated with a group mem-
berid; or(id,⊥)ifidhas been removed from the group; or
∅if it is empty. An inner node either stores∅, if it is blank;
or one or moreversions. A version contains i) a public
7

key, and ii) one or more encryptions of the corresponding
private key. In the simplest case there is one version with
one ciphertext; we explain the simple case here then address
the general case when discussingUpdatein §4.3.2. Letv
denote an inner node with associated public-private key pair
(pkv,sk v)and childrenlandr. Invariant 1 requires that
skv can be computed given access to either child’s secret
key,sk l orsk r. BeeKEM achieves this by encryptingsk v
under a symmetric key shared between its children: using a
NIKE, we derive a shared keydk lr from the keys of both
children, which is used to encryptc v←$ SE.Enc(dklr,sk v);
then(pk v,c v)is stored atv. Given a child secret keysk l,
one can re-compute the shared key as
dklr←NIKE.SharedKey(pk r,sk l),(1)
using the siblingr’s public keypk r, which is stored in the
clear (and vice-versa for the other child’s secret). Having
thus computeddk lr, one can decryptc v and recoversk v.
With this structure holding throughout the tree, any group
member can access all subgroup secrets on their leaf’s path
to the root, recursively: for each levelℓ∈{0,...,d−2},
they can use their secret key from levelℓand its sibling
public key to derive a shared keydkas in (1) and usedk
to decrypt the level-(ℓ+ 1)ancestor’s subgroup secret.
Direct Paths & Co-Paths.A leaf’sdirect pathis the path
of nodes from that leaf to the root. A leaf’sco-pathis the
ordered set of nodes which are the siblings of each node in
that leaf’s direct path. By auser’s direct path, we mean the
user’s leaf’s direct path; likewise for theuser’s co-path.
Operation Graph.As aforementioned, the operation
graphGis a hash DAG which records the history of DCGKA
operations performed by the group. Each user stores a local
copy ofG, which encodes the operations processed by that
user so far and allows detection of causal order. When a
user performs a new operation, they broadcast a message
containing their current head operations as its predecessors.
Every node inGstores the type of operation (Create
Add,Remove, orUpdate) that it corresponds to, the ID of
the calling user thereof, the hashes of its predecessors in
G, and other operation-specific fields (e.g., for anAddor
Remove, theid ′ of the added or removed user).
4.3.2. BeeKEM’s Operations.
Group Creation.In BeeKEM, theCreateoperation ini-
tializes a group with only the calling user as a member. 11
This results in the calling user creating initial versions of
BandGin their local state as follows. The initial version
ofBis a two-level tree, containing only(id,pk id)for the
calling user in the first leaf, with the other two nodes (i.e.,
the second leaf and root nodes) empty. As such, there is
no group secret defined upon group creation. The initial
version ofGcontains a unique sink of the graph (similar to
11. While the DCGKA syntax in §3 allowsCreateto take as input a
set of user IDs to initialize the group with, BeeKEM restricts this set to
be empty. This is without loss of generality: group members can be added
immediately after via calls toAdd.
an “initial commit” in Git), which is the only node with no
predecessor. Looking ahead, this initial operation is always
a valid point for beginning a replay of the operation graph.
Finally, the user storessk id separately in their local state.
Adding a Member.When a useridperforms anAdd
operation to add a userid′, they first identify a fresh (empty)
leaf for the new user and annotate it withid ′ as its owner
and their public keypk id′. We assume this initial public
keypk id′ is obtained through a PKI external to BeeKEM,
which we treat as a black box. The fresh leaf is chosen as
the rightmost empty leaf in our implementation. 12 If there
are no empty leaves, then we expand the tree to the next
power of two to create more empty leaves (the old root
becomes the left child of the new root). Then, every node
on the direct path of the leaf forid ′ is blanked, including
the root. This is done to preserve Invariant 1, as those
nodes’ subgroup secrets (including the group secret) are
inaccessible to a member of their subtree after the tree-
expansion and before the blanking. Notice that there is no
defined group secret after anAdd; it is only established again
after a user performs an update. To conclude,idbroadcasts
(id′,pk id′)as a control message. Finally,Addruns in time
(logn), wherenis the group size.
Removing a Member.When useridperforms aRemove
operation to remove a userid ′, they identifyid ′’s leaf in
the BeeKEM tree 13 and blank that leaf and all nodes in its
direct path to the root. This is again to maintain Invariant 1:
before the blanking, the nodes of the direct path have a
subgroup secret accessible to a member no longer part of
the group.Removedoes not free up leaves formerly assigned
to a group member for use in futureAddoperations. These
leaves are instead kept astombstonesto help with concurrent
group changes; strategies to free up tombstones are an opti-
mization.14 To conclude member removal,idbroadcasts the
removedid′ as a control message to all the other members of
the group. As with additions, there is no defined group secret
immediately following aRemoveoperation; a subsequent
update operation is required to re-establish the update secret.
Removealso runs in timeO(logn).
Group Secret Updates.Before discussing theUpdate
algorithm, we conclude our description of the general struc-
ture of the BeeKEM tree. Recall that an inner node may
have more than one versions; and that a single version may
have more than one ciphertext. We first explain the cause of
multiple versions. Under concurrent updates, different forks
ascribe different public-private key pairs to the same node,
thus defining different versions. When partition heals, mem-
bers keep all versions of a node established by concurrent
operations; such a node is called aconflict node. A causally
subsequent update supersedes the conflict and establishes a
12. This is arbitrary; it does not matter which empty leaf is used, as long
as there is a deterministic way of finding the next fresh leaf to use.
13. We assume for simplicity of exposition thatAddonly ever targets
id′ not in the group and thatRemoveonly ever targetsid ′ in the group.
Our implementation aborts when these conditions do not hold.
14. Our implementation of BeeKEM frees up tombstones (turning them
into empty nodes) whenever they form a contiguous right edge.
8

1
2 3
4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
Figure 2. A BeeKEM tree showing different types of nodes. Dotted nodes
denote blank nodes, and the slashed node at 6 is a conflict node. (This tree
could arise if the users at leaves 12 and 13 concurrently performed updates,
then the partition healed and the user at leaf 14 was removed.) The user
at node 10 performs an update. When encrypting the subgroup secret for
node 2, the user will create a throwaway key pair (as node 4 has an empty
resolution). When encrypting the group secret at node 1, the user finds the
resolution of node 3, which is the greyed nodes 12, 13, and 15.
single version. If the root is a conflict node, we consider the
group secret undefined, i.e.S=⊥.
The cause of multiple ciphertexts explains something
readers may wonder: for a given inner node, why usedkto
encryptskrather than usedkitself as the subgroup secret?
This is because situations can arise where the sibling node
either is blank (and has no public key) or is a conflict node,
with no canonical public key. In such situations, BeeKEM
collects the nodes which “ought” to have had access to
the sibling’s subgroup secret, if it had one, and makessk
available to them by collecting theirpk, computing corre-
spondingdk, and encryptingskunder each. This creates
agreement on the subgroup secretskeven when there is
no agreement ondk. Formally, theresolutionof a non-
blank, non-conflict node is defined as just the node itself;
the resolution of a blank or conflict node is the set of its
highest descendants which are not blank or conflict nodes.
Figure 2 gives an example of a node resolution.
We now present the update algorithm. Letidbe the
updating user, and letv ℓ denote the level-ℓnode on their
direct path, forℓ∈ {0,...,d−1}. Thenv 0 isid’s leaf
andv d−1 is the root. First, useridgeneratesdfresh public-
private key pairs(pk ℓ,sk ℓ)← $ NIKE.Kg(). Theℓ-th key pair
(pkℓ,sk ℓ)replaces the keys associated withv ℓ. In particular,
(pk0,sk 0)are the new keys forid. The user updatesv 0 with
pk0, and storessk 0 locally. Useridthen travels up their
direct path iteratively, processing the new key pairs via an
analogous procedure to that given in (1) for accessing shared
secrets. For every inner nodev ℓ forℓ∈{1,...,d−1}, the
updating user enshrines the subgroup secret ofv ℓ as follows.
First,idtakes the resolution of the co-path sibling ofv ℓ−1
(said differently: the other child ofv ℓ). Then, for every node
uin the sibling’s resolution, 15 idtakes its public keypk u
ℓ−1
and computes
dku
ℓ−1←NIKE.SharedKey(pk u
ℓ−1,sk ℓ−1),
wheresk ℓ−1 denotes, as above, the secret key ofv ℓ−1
(whichidjust sampled). Then,idencrypts the new subgroup
secretsk ℓ under eachdk u
ℓ−1 asc u
ℓ←$ SE.Enc(dku
ℓ−1,sk ℓ).
15. In the edge case where the resolution set is empty,idgenerates a
“throwaway” key pair and publishes itspkat the sibling.
This creates a new version withpk ℓ and allc u
ℓ , whichid
publishes atv ℓ. Ultimately,S=sk d−1 is encrypted and
stored at the rootv d−1, becoming the new group secret.
(Accordingly, when a user decrypts the group secret in the
general case, they skip any blank or conflict nodes on their
direct path, going up their ancestors: some higher node
contains a ciphertext they can decrypt.)
The control message that results from an update contains
a list of the new versions for each node on the direct
path; and the set of public keys rendered obsolete by this
operation.Updateruns in timeO(logn)in the best case,
where each node of the co-path is non-blank and non-
conflict. Performance degrades with concurrency, which cre-
ates conflict nodes; in the worst case it decays toO(n), if
a resolution set containsO(n)nodes.
Processing Operations.As described, BeeKEM’s
Update,Add, andRemoveoperations only result in control
messages, which are broadcast from the calling user to all
other group members via an ACB (§3); BeeKEM does not
rely on direct messages. All three of BeeKEM’s control-
message types have the same structure: (1) the operation
that was performed, and (2) the new content for the nodes
modified by the operation (which updates, additions, and
blankings). Then,Processsimply involves updating the
user’s local copies ofGandBaccording to (1) and (2),
by replaying the operation that was received and appending
the operation to the operation graphG.
4.3.3. Handling Concurrency.Recall that BeeKEM can
detect concurrency using the operation graphG(§4.2).
When concurrent operations are processed, BeeKEMre-
playsthe entire history of operations from the initialCreate
operation,16 using the materialization function to determine
the effects of concurrent operations and guaranteeing con-
vergence between users.
Definition 2(Topological sort).LetGbe a DAG. Atopolog-
ical sortofGis an ordering of its nodes such that, if directed
edge(u,v)is inG, thenuprecedesvin the ordering.
To compute the materialization, the user first (deter-
ministically) topologically sorts 17 the operation graphG
with respect to the reverse of the hash edges; the resulting
topological sort respects the causal order over operations by
construction (see §4.2). In doing this, the user also identifies
whereGforks into separate branches; these periods of
concurrency are calledbatches, and they are also ordered
with respect to each other by the topological sort.
The user then applies each sequential operation and each
batch in the topological sort order. Sequential operations
are applied one-by-one in the expected way; but when
encountering a batch, the operations of the batch are applied
in a special way to handle their concurrency. Within a batch,
the user iterates over the sorted operations collecting two
16. An optimization is to periodically checkpoint to replay fewer op-
erations. In practice we find replaying the full history does not cause
performance issues.
17. A topological sort can be computed efficiently for a DAG [16].
9

sets: a setAof added members; and a setRof removed
members. The user applies each operation in the batch in the
topological sort order. When performing concurrentUpdate
operations, the different versions of a node are all kept
(unlike sequential updates, which supersede each other).
If the operation isAddorRemove, they add the targeted
user to the relevant set. At the end, the members inR
have their leaves’ direct paths (re-)blanked (as concurrent
Updates could have populated their direct paths). Then, the
members inA\Rare sorted in some deterministic way
(e.g. lexicographic ordering over IDs), removed from the
tree, then reinserted in that order. This reinsertion is done
because the same leaf may have been assigned to distinct
members on different branches.
BeeKEM Pseudocode.In App. A, we present the com-
plete BeeKEM protocol as pseudocode in Fig. 6 and 7.
5. Security Analysis of BeeKEM
We overview our security analysis of BeeKEM, which
rigorously demonstrates it achieves security properties from
§3.3. Full proofs are in App. B.
Security Definition.Our security and correctness notions
are captured in the key indistinguishability game introduced
by Weidner at al. [34], which formalizes the security goals
for DCGKA schemes (given in §3). Figure 8 in App. B
provides a full formal definition of the game.
Key Indistinguishability Game.The ki-DCGKA game
starts by initializing a CGKA schemeΠand variablesγto
track the flow of control and direct messages to be delivered.
After setup, the adversaryAruns with oracle access to
the operations ofΠand other oracles described below.Ahas
perpetual access to the list of (control and direct) messages
exchanged. Using oracles to interface withΠ,Amay create
a group, modify group membership (i.e., add or remove
users), trigger updates, and process messages. These oracles
call the corresponding algorithm inΠ, and add the resulting
control and direct messages to local variables maintained by
the game. These messages are delivered when the adversary
calls a dedicated delivery oracle, which results in each
receiving user processing the message. Due to the ACB, the
adversary cannot modify messages, deliver messages out of
casual order, or forge sender identities.
The adversary may compromise users of its choice via
a dedicated Compromise oracle, which reveals the chosen
users’ local state. In addition, the adversary may obtain any
user’s group secrets, either via the Reveal oracle (which
simply reveals the secret), or the Challenge oracle, which
returns either the real secret or a random string (of the same
length) depending on the value of a random challenge bit.
ki-DCGKA is parametrized by asafety predicateP,
which rules out sets of adversary queries that would lead
to “trivial wins” that do not violate any of our desired
security properties (e.g., compromising a member’s state and
immediately recovering their group secret).Pencodes the
bee-safeκ(q1, . . . , qn) :
∀
 
i, js.t.q i =CHALLENGE(id, c)for someid, cand
qj =COMPROMISE(id ′)for someid ′
, 
∃(u1, . . . , uκ)s.t.∀l, q ul =SENDUPDATE(id ′),/ /k-FSU
q2op(qi)≺q2op(q uκ )≺···≺q2op(q u1 )⪯q2op(q j)

∨
 
∃us.t.q u =SENDUPDATE(id ′),/ /PCS
q2op(qj)≺q2op(q u)⪯q2op(q i)

∨
 
∃(u1, . . . , uκ)s.t.∀l, q ul =SENDUPDATE(id ′),/ /k-CFS
(q2op(quκ )≺···≺q2op(q u1 )⪯q2op(q j))
∧(q2op(qi)∼q2op(q j))

Figure 3.bee-safepredicate, whereq 1,...,q n denote thenoracle queries
performed by the adversary andκis the parameter controlling the tradeoff
between fork tolerance and forward secrecy.a⪯bdenotesa≺b∨a=b.
precise PCS and FS guarantees that a scheme must have if
secure under the ki-DCGKA game with respect toP.
We define the advantage of adversaryAover DCGKA
schemeΠwith respect to safety predicatePas
Advki-dcgka
Π,P (A) = Pr

ki-DCGKAA
Π,P⇒1

.
BeeKEM Safety Predicate.Figure 3 formally defines the
safety predicatebee-safethat BeeKEM satisfies. The three
clauses of the disjunction correspond to the three security
properties achieved by BeeKEM:κ-FSU, PCS, andκ-CFS
(see §3.3).bee-safeis parameterized byκ; smaller values
ofκweaken the predicate, excluding more query sets.
Theorem 1.LetSEbe a symmetric encryption scheme,
NIKEbe a non-interactive key exchange scheme compat-
ible withSE, andΠ=BeeKEM[SE,NIKE]. LetAbe a
ki-DCGKAadversary that makes at mostcchallenge oracle
queries and at mostnmember additions. Then, we give
adversariesB, andCsuch that, for any integerk≥1,
Advki-dcgka
Π,bee-safek
(A)≤
c·⌈log 2n⌉·
 
Advhkr-cks
NIKE (B) +Adv mu-cpa
SE (C)

.
We present the full proof of this theorem in Appendix B.
Proof Sketch.We first use a standard hybrid argument to
bound the advantage of an adversary that performs multiple
challenge queries by the advantage of an adversary that
performs a single challenge query. This allows us to focus on
one challenge query thereafter, which simplifies the proof.
The core of the proof is then computing the advantage
of the single-query adversary. We do so via a hybrid ar-
gument over the nodes that are modified during the update
that preceded the challenge, which established the current
group secret at that time. For each node in the update path,
from the bottom up, we define a pair of hybrids: the first
replaces computations of NIKE shared keys with random
keys, invoking NIKE security; and the second replaces en-
cryptions of subgroup secrets with encryptions of all zeros,
invoking encryption security. Arguing that the NIKE and
IND-CPA adversaries can simulate the DCGKA adversary’s
environment, including DCGKA operation oracles, is non-
trivial; App. B gives details.
10

6. Implementation and Evaluation
We evaluate our implementation and compare it to two
existing systems: OpenMLS [30], a popular implementation
of MLS and its centralized TreeKEM protocol [7], and Wei-
dner et al.’s DCGKA scheme [34], which we call WKHB
based on the authors’ initials. Our implementation is open
source;
Our experiments explore two scenarios. In Section 6.1
we compare the three implementations in a setting where
the group members performAdd,Remove, andUpdate
operationssequentially, i.e., where one user’s operation is
received by the other users before the next operation is
generated. We show that in this setting, the cost of MLS
and BeeKEM grow logarithmically with the group size as
expected, whereas the cost of WKHB grows linearly.
In Section 6.2 we measure how BeeKEM’s performan-
ceis affected by operations performed during a network
partition, resulting in an operation graph containing con-
current operations. This experiment shows that the cost
of resolving conflict nodes in BeeKEM is approximately
proportional to the fraction of users who calledUpdateat
least once during the network partition, resulting in a worst-
case conflict resolution cost that is linear in the group size.
We perform our experiments by simulating all users,
and the network between them, on a single machine with
a 16-core AMD CPU and 128 GB of RAM. We run each
experiment 5 times and report the median. Run-to-run timing
is stable: the standard deviation across the 5 repetitions
stays below 1% of the median for slower (multi-millisecond)
operations. Greater variance (up to 16%) was observed only
on sub-millisecond operations where the absolute variance
is negligible. We therefore omit error bars from our graphs.
6.1. Best-Case Protocol Comparison
Sequential execution of operations with no concurrency
is the best case for BeeKEM, since it avoids introducing
conflict nodes that would require resolution. For MLS, this
sequential execution is the only possible mode of operation.
Fig. 4 shows the CPU time used by each of the three
systems for different operations at group sizes varying from
8 to 512 members. “Sender” refers to the cost for the user
who invokesAdd,Remove, orUpdate. “Recipient” refers to
the cost for an existing group member callingProcessafter
receiving the operation from another user. “New recipient”
refers to the cost ofProcessfor the new member being
added by anAddoperation.
For the sender, theO(n)cost ofUpdatein WKHB
is clearly visible in Fig. 4. BeeKEM has the lowest CPU
time for both senders and recipients of the three systems
we compared. We were surprised to see linear growth in
the OpenMLS CPU time at larger group sizes. On further
investigation, we found that although the core TreeKEM
construction in MLS hasO(logn)cost, OpenMLS addi-
tionally recomputes tree and parent hashes over the whole
ratchet tree, which hasO(n)cost and becomes a significant
contributor to CPU time at large group sizes.
All three systems have a higher cost for the new member
being added by anAddoperation, since this user needs
to download a welcome message and compute the current
group state. In OpenMLS this requiresO(n)work to verify
the leaf signatures of the whole ratchet tree; in WKHB the
cost is building the ratchet state for each of thenmembers;
and for BeeKEM the cost is replaying theO(n)operation
history. BeeKEM is the most expensive of the three on this
metric, though they are asymptotically similar. EachUpdate
grows the welcome message by2.5kB and increases the
Processtime for that message by 40 µs.
In order to separate the effects of implementation lan-
guage (BeeKEM and OpenMLS are written in Rust, WKHB
in Java) and other implementation details (such as Open-
MLS’s ratchet tree recomputation) from the core CGKA
cost, we additionally perform an asymptotic analysis whose
results are reported in Table 1. We instrument the three im-
plementations to count the number of invocations of public-
key cryptographic primitives (Diffie-Hellman, HPKE, signa-
tures, and asymmetric keypair generation), since these dom-
inate the runtime, whereas symmetric primitives (hashes,
KDFs, and AEADs) are comparatively fast. For recipients
we compute the average number of invocations per group
member who callsProcess. We then report which ofO(1),
O(logn),O(n),O(nlogn), orO(n 2)best fits the observed
invocation counts.We also measure the size of the network
messages and the size of data in persistent storage (in bytes),
and likewise map these to a big-O class.
6.2. BeeKEM Under Network Partitions
Next, we evaluate BeeKEM’s performance under net-
work partitions. We do not compare to other implementa-
tions: MLS cannot operate under partition, and WKHB’s
behavior under partition is largely the same as in §6.1.
The scenario we test is a group ofn= 64members
that is initially connected. A network partition then divides
it into four equal-sized subsets such that members within
each subset can communicate, but members across subsets
cannot. During the network partition,Updateis called by
Ugroup members, sampled uniformly without replacement.
IfU >n, once allngroup members have calledUpdate, a
new round begins and all members are again eligible to be
sampled. We then end the partition and allow all members
to communicate again.
Fig. 5 shows the result of varyingU∈[0,2n]and
measuring two aspects of post-partition recovery: (1) the
CPU time for the first group member (chosen randomly)
to callUpdateafter the end of the partition, and the size
of the message it generates; and (2) the cumulative CPU
time until all conflict nodes in the tree have been updated
through successiveUpdates, and the cumulative network
traffic this generates. The first metric captures the immediate
cost of resuming encrypted application traffic; the second
captures the recovery window before BeeKEM returns to
the sequential behavior examined in Section 6.1.
If no member updates during the partition, there are no
conflicts to resolve. As the fraction of members that have
11

8 16 32 64 128 256 512
group size N
100
101
102
median time (ms)
Sender
8 16 32 64 128 256 512
group size N
10 1
100
median time (ms)
Recipient
8 16 32 64 128 256 512
group size N
100
101
median time (ms)
New recipient
WKHB BeeKEM OpenMLS Update Add
Figure 4. Per-operation, per-user CPU cost as the group size grows. Solid lines are forUpdateoperations; dotted lines forAdd; andRemoveoperations
are not shown since their cost is very similar toUpdate.
TABLE 1. ASYMPTOTIC COST OF OPERATIONS PERFORMED SEQUENTIALLY. “SENDER PRIMITIVES”IS THE NUMBER OF PUBLIC-KEY PRIMITIVES
INVOKED BY THE USER CALLINGAdd/Remove/Update; “RECIPIENT PRIMITIVES”IS FOR A USER CALLINGProcessAFTER RECEIVING THE
OPERATION. HEREnIS THE GROUP SIZE,h B THE SIZE OF THE OPERATION HISTORY,ANDh D THE SIZE OFWKHB’S GROUP-MEMBERSHIP HISTORY.
System Operation Sender primitives Recipient primitives Message size Persistent storage
OpenMLS Update/Remove O(logn) O(1) O(logn)broadcast O(n)Add O(logn) O(1) O(logn)commit plus
O(n)welcome
BeeKEM Update/Remove
followed byUpdate
O(logn) O(1)existing recipient O(logn)broadcast O(n+h B )
Addfollowed by
Update
O(logn) O(1)existing recipient;
O(hB )new recipient
O(logn+h B )with
welcome history
WKHB Update/Remove O(n) O(1) O(n) O(n2 +hD)Add O(1) O(1) O(hD)welcome history
updated during the partition increases, Fig. 5 shows that the
total post-partition recovery cost increases linearly, but it
plateaus once each member has updated once, and further
updates add little further cost. The cost of the first post-
message update grows more slowly.
7. BeeKEM Extension Sketches
We sketch BeeKEM FS and BeeKEM PQ, variant pro-
tocols that respectively achieve FS and CFS; and post-
quantum security. We defer a full treatment to future work.
BeeKEMFS: a fully FS and CFS extension.The
BeeKEM protocol was designed for a setting where users
can define group secrets during partition, but re-encrypting
the data generated and encrypted during the partition may
be infeasible. Other contexts may feature constraints where
correctness under concurrency is not as important as more
robust security properties. We describe BeeKEM FS, a vari-
ant construction that achieves “full” (rather thanκ-) FS and
CFS at the expense of CUC: BeeKEM FS still tolerates and
resolves concurrent operations, but if a user performs an
Updateunder partition, they cannot later recover any group
secrets which were defined by members in other branches.
The key idea is analogous to the fix to TreeKEM in [7]:
we useUpdatable Public-Key Encryption(UPKE), which
(informally) ensures that a given public-private key pair is
only ever used to encrypt a single message. UPKE extends
standard PKE so thatUPKE.Encoutputs both a ciphertext
and a new public keypk ′; andUPKE.Decoutputs both the
message and a new corresponding secret keysk ′.
The BeeKEM FS tree has a similar structure to
BeeKEM’s: filled leaf nodes have an associatedidand
pkid; inner nodes have versions which contain apkand
several encryptions of the corresponding secret keyskunder
different public keys. To access the root secret: at levelℓ, the
user identifiestheirciphertext in the parent (encrypted under
pkℓ), decrypts the ciphertext undersk ℓ to obtainsk ℓ+1, and
also a new secret keysk ′
ℓ, which they retain in their local
state. The userimmediatelydeletes the old corresponding
secret keysk ℓ from their local state.
BeeKEMFS’sUpdateprocedure generates a payload
which contains changes to both the updating user’s direct
pathand to their co-path. First, the updating user gener-
12

0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75 2.00
Average updates per member while partitioned
0
5
10
15
20
25
30CPU wall-clock time (ms)
(a) Computation
first post-merge Update
recovery until conflict-free
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75 2.00
Average updates per member while partitioned
0
25
50
75
100
125
150Network message size (KiB)
(b) Communication
first post-merge Update
recovery until conflict-free
Figure 5. Cost of the first post-partitionUpdate(blue) and cumulative cost of resolving all conflict nodes in the BeeKEM tree (red). Left: CPU time,
right: network bandwidth.
ates a sequence ofdpublic-private key pairs(pk ℓ,sk ℓ)for
ℓ∈{0,...,d−1}, as before. They take(pk 0,sk 0)as their
new personal public-private key pair. Then, going up the
tree, at levelℓthey ascribe the key pair(pk ℓ+1,sk ℓ+1)
to the parent as follows. First, they collect all relevant
public keys from the sibling’s resolution in a setR; and
toRthey add their own public key at levelℓ,pk ℓ.
Then, for each public keypk u in the setR, they compute
ct,pk′
u←UPKE.Enc(pk u;sk ℓ+1), and storectunderpk u
at the parent, and also setpk ′
u as the new public key ofu.
Note that this includes the public key on the calling user’s
side, who then immediately updates the public key of their
direct path node frompk ℓ to somepk ′
ℓ; this is necessary to
preserve the symmetry of the tree. The root secret is thus
updated toS=sk d−1. Group creation, state initialization,
and membership changes are identical to BeeKEM. Lastly,
when a user receives anUpdatemessage, they immediately
decrypt the group secret and delete their old secret.
Intuitively, BeeKEM FS achieves FS and CFS because
users immediately delete their old personal secret upon
processing anUpdateoperation.
BeeKEMPQ: A Post-Quantum Extension.Building ef-
ficient messaging secure against quantum computers is an
area of active work [28]. Next, we describe BeeKEM PQ, a
variant DCGKA construction that can be built from crypto-
graphic primitives with practical, secure PQ instantiations.
BeeKEMPQ is built using key encapsulation mechanisms
(KEM), a PQ primitive [2]. We sketch its construction.
The basic idea is to change computations of shared
sibling keys from using a NIKE to using a KEM.
(All other cryptographic primitives remain unchanged, ex-
cept that we instantiate them with PQ constructions.) A
KEM is defined by three algorithms:Kg,Encap, and
Decap[2].(pk,sk)← $ Kg()generates a public-private key
pair.(c,dk)← $ Encap(pk)“encapsulates” an input public
key and returns a ciphertextcandderived keydk, which
can be “decapsulated” viadk←Decap(sk,c). Each node
in the BeeKEM PQ tree, instead of storing just a public key
and encrypted subgroup secret, additionally stores ciphertext
cgenerated byencapsulating the sibling public key, i.e.,
(c,dk)← $ Encap(pks)wherepk s is the sibling public key.
The sibling can recoverdkby decapsulatingcwith its
subgroup secret, i.e.,dk←Decap(sk,c). Keydkis then
used as the shared key between siblings as in BeeKEM.
BeeKEMPQ is thus able to achieve PQ security.
8. Related Work
DCGKA.Our work contributes to the literature ondecen-
tralizedcontinuous group key agreement. The state-of-the-
art DCGKA constructions are Causal TreeKEM [35] and the
WKHB scheme [34]. BeeKEM notably differs from both.
Our biggest innovation compared to WKHB is our
O(logn)update communication cost vsO(n); linear com-
plexity is not practical for large groups, which are an im-
portant use case for group messaging (see also §1). WKHB
achieves better FS than BeeKEM—akin to how TreeKEM
has worse FS than the naive, linear-time CGKA construction
via pairwise channels. On the other hand, BeeKEM achieves
better PCS than WKHB.
Causal TreeKEM also achievesO(logn)update com-
munication. Their protocol does not achieve FS for rea-
sons analogous to BeeKEM (retaining old update secrets
to handle concurrent updates which arrive later), and it
lacks formal security proofs and has no implementation. Its
PCS is also imperfect, as noted in [34]: if an adversary
compromises multiple users, if those users concurrently
perform an update, the adversary can compute the new group
secret that results when all users processes the new updates.
Causal TreeKEM also requires the additional assumption
that there exists a commutative/associative operation over
key pairs to combine updates, whereas BeeKEM relies on
standard cryptographic primitives.
A key difficulty faced by both WKHB and Causal
TreeKEM lies with maintaining PCS under concurrent up-
dates: indeed, both schemes suffer from attacks in which the
attacker can compute the new group secret if the compro-
mised users perform updates concurrently. BeeKEM avoids
these issues because of theNo secret after mergeproperty
13

(§4.2): there is no group secret defined via concurrent up-
dates.
Other CGKA Variants.While our focus is on DCGKA,
we briefly note other CGKA variants in prior work [5],
[6], [8]. Some of these share similar motivation to ours,
but in centralized settings. For example, concurrent CGKA
schemes support concurrent updates [5], [6], but they do not
support processing operations that occurred before the latest
processed update (a narrow form of concurrency).
Fork-resilient CGKA (FR-CGKA) [8] is also motivated
by the problem of key agreement over unreliable infrastruc-
ture. Unlike our serverless setting, which supports message
delivery over any medium (including, e.g., sneakernets), FR-
CGKA operates in the server-aided CGKA model, which
relies on a central (but possibly untrusted or unreliable)
infrastructure for message delivery. In FR-CGKA, users’
states and group secrets may diverge; accordingly, FR-
CGKA schemes also face the possibility of cross-fork at-
tacks [8], related to our notion of cross-fork security for
DCGKA. Like BeeKEM, there exist FR-CGKA schemes
with logarithmic communication cost and security against
cross-fork attacks [8], but these have not been accompanied
by an implementation (as far as we are aware, there are no
FR-CGKA schemes with available implementations). More
broadly, FR-CGKA and DCGKA have not been closely con-
nected in prior literature; an examination of the relationship
between the models would be interesting future work (in
particular, to what extent attacks and security techniques in
one model are applicable in the other).
9. Conclusion
We introduce BeeKEM, the first DCGKA scheme to
achieve logarithmic update costs, thus bringing DCGKA
performance up to par with that of centralized CGKA. We
prove the security of BeeKEM, and provide a production-
ready implementation as an open-source artifact. Our evalu-
ation shows that BeeKEM’s performance is comparable to,
and in some cases better than, state-of-the-art CGKA. Our
BeeKEM implementation enables E2EE in a wide range of
decentralizedlocal-firstcollaboration software; such appli-
cations have already been built on our work.
10. Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank Matthew Weidner and
Zachary DeStefano for providing feedback on an earlier
version of this paper. Brooklyn Zelenka, John Mumm, and
Martin Kleppmann are funded by the Advanced Research
+ Invention Agency (ARIA) through project code MSAI-
PR01-P043. Martin Kleppmann also gratefully acknowl-
edges his crowdfunding supporters including SoftwareMill.
References
[1] Access Now. Rising and resisting in the darkness: internet shutdowns
in 2025. Access Now, March 2026.
[2] Gorjan Alagic. Recommendations for key-encapsulation mechanisms.
Technical Report NIST SP 800-227 ipd, National Institute of Stan-
dards and Technology, 2025.
[3] Martin R. Albrecht, Jorge Blasco, Rikke Bjerg Jensen, and Lenka
Marekov´a. Mesh messaging in large-scale protests: Breaking
Bridgefy. InTopics in Cryptology – CT-RSA 2021: Cryptographers’
Track at the RSA Conference 2021, Virtual Event, May 17–20, 2021,
Proceedings, page 375–398, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2021. Springer-
Verlag.
[4] Martin R Albrecht, Jorge Blasco, Rikke Bjerg Jensen, and Lenka
Marekov´a. Collective information security in large-scale urban
protests: the case of Hong Kong. In30th USENIX Security Sym-
posium. USENIX, 2021.
[5] Jo ¨el Alwen, Benedikt Auerbach, Miguel Cueto Noval, Karen Klein,
Guillermo Pascual-Perez, and Krzyzstof Pietrzak. DeCAF: Decen-
tralizable CGKA with fast healing. InSecurity and Cryptography for
Networks: 14th International Conference, SCN 2024, Amalfi, Italy,
September 11–13, 2024, Proceedings, Part II, page 294–313, Berlin,
Heidelberg, 2024. Springer-Verlag.
[6] Jo ¨el Alwen, Benedikt Auerbach, Miguel Cueto Noval, Karen Klein,
Guillermo Pascual-Perez, Krzyzstof Pietrzak, and Michael Walter.
CoCoA: Concurrent continuous group key agreement. In Orr Dunkel-
man and Stefan Dziembowski, editors,Advances in Cryptology – EU-
ROCRYPT 2022, pages 815–844, Cham, 2022. Springer International
Publishing.
[7] Jo ¨el Alwen, Sandro Coretti, Yevgeniy Dodis, and Yiannis Tselekou-
nis. Security analysis and improvements for the IETF MLS standard
for group messaging. In Daniele Micciancio and Thomas Ristenpart,
editors,Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2020, pages 248–277,
Cham, 2020. Springer International Publishing.
[8] Jo ¨el Alwen, Marta Mularczyk, and Yiannis Tselekounis. Fork-
resilient continuous group key agreement. InAdvances in Cryptology
– CRYPTO 2023: 43rd Annual International Cryptology Conference,
CRYPTO 2023, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 20–24, 2023, Pro-
ceedings, Part IV, page 396–429, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2023. Springer-
Verlag.
[9] Jacob Aron and Aviva Rutkin. Hong Kong protesters use a mesh
network to organise.New Scientist, September 2014.
[10] Richard Barnes, Benjamin Beurdouche, Raphael Robert, Jon Millican,
Emad Omara, and Katriel Cohn-Gordon. The Messaging Layer
Security (MLS) protocol. IETF RFC 9420, https://www.rfc-editor.
org/rfc/rfc9420.html, July 2023.
[11] Mihir Bellare and Chanathip Namprempre. Authenticated encryption:
Relations among notions and analysis of the generic composition
paradigm.Journal of cryptology, 2008.
[12] Benjamin Beurdouche, Eric Rescorla, Emad Omara, Srinivas Inguva,
and Alan Duric. The Messaging Layer Security (MLS) architecture.
IETF RFC 9750, https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9750.html, April
2025.
[13] Karthikeyan Bhargavan, Richard Barnes, and Eric Rescorla.
TreeKEM: Asynchronous decentralized key management for large
dynamic groups. https://inria.hal.science/hal-02425247/, 2018.
[14] Cisco Webex. End-to-end encryption for Webex Meetings and
Webex Calling. https://help.webex.com/en-us/article/5h5d8ab/
End-to-end-encryption-for-Webex-Meetings-and-Webex-Calling#
section nbd hmq z5b, 2025.
[15] Katriel Cohn-Gordon, Cas Cremers, Luke Garratt, Jon Millican, and
Kevin Milner. On ends-to-ends encryption: Asynchronous group
messaging with strong security guarantees. InProceedings of the
2018 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, CCS ’18, page 1802–1819, New York, NY , USA, 2018.
Association for Computing Machinery.
[16] Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest, and
Clifford Stein.Introduction to Algorithms, chapter 20.4. MIT Press,
April 2022.
14

[17] Whitfield Diffie and Martin Hellman. New directions in cryptography.
IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 22(6):644–654, 1976.
[18] Roger Dingledine, Nick Mathewson, and Paul Syverson. Tor: The
second-generation onion router. Technical Report ADA465464, Naval
Research Laboratory, Washington DC, 2004.
[19] Mat Ford. Internet (un)reliability around the world. Internet Society
Pulse, Oct 2022.
[20] Eduarda S. V . Freire, Dennis Hofheinz, Eike Kiltz, and Kenneth G.
Paterson. Non-interactive key exchange. In Kaoru Kurosawa and
Goichiro Hanaoka, editors,Public-Key Cryptography – PKC 2013,
pages 254–271, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2013. Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
[21] Daniel Hugenroth, Martin Kleppmann, and Alastair R. Beresford.
Rollercoaster: An efficient group-multicast scheme for mix networks.
In30th USENIX Security Symposium, pages 3433–3450, 2021.
[22] IETF News. End-to-end encryption based on the IETF-developed
Messaging Layer Security set be used on 100s of millions of mobile
devices. https://www.ietf.org/blog/rcs-adopts-mls/, 2025.
[23] David Inyangson, Sarah Radway, Tushar M. Jois, Nelly Fazio, and
James Mickens. Amigo: Secure group mesh messaging in realistic
protest settings. In Chun-Ying Huang, Jyh-Cheng Chen, Shiuh-Pyng
Shieh, David Lie, and V ´eronique Cortier, editors,Proceedings of the
2025 ACM SIGSAC CCS 2025, Taipei, Taiwan, October 13-17, 2025,
pages 4244–4258. ACM, 2025.
[24] Martin Kleppmann. Making CRDTs Byzantine fault tolerant. In
Proceedings of the 9th Workshop on Principles and Practice of Con-
sistency for Distributed Data, PaPoC ’22, pages 8–15. Association
for Computing Machinery, 2022.
[25] Martin Kleppmann and Heidi Howard. Byzantine eventual consis-
tency and the fundamental limits of peer-to-peer databases.
[26] Martin Kleppmann, Adam Wiggins, Peter van Hardenberg, and Mark
McGranaghan. Local-first software: You own your data, in spite of
the cloud. In2019 ACM SIGPLAN International Symposium on New
Ideas, New Paradigms, and Reflections on Programming and Software
(Onward!), pages 154–178. ACM, October 2019.
[27] Jo ˜ao Leit ˜ao, Jos ´e Pereira, and Lu ´Is Rodrigues. Gossip-based broad-
cast. In Xuemin Shen, Heather Yu, John Buford, and Mursalin
Akon, editors,Handbook of Peer-to-Peer Networking, pages 831–860.
Springer US, 2010.
[28] Rohan Mahy and Richard Barnes. ML-KEM and Hybrid Cipher
Suites for Messaging Layer Security. Internet Draft draft-ietf-mls-
pq-ciphersuites-02, Internet Engineering Task Force, 2026. Work in
Progress.
[29] Vibhu Mishra. UN warns of rising internet shutdowns as digital
blackouts spread worldwide, Jan 2026.
[30] Phoenix R&D and Cryspen. OpenMLS, 2026. OpenMLS is a Rust
implementation of the Messaging Layer Security (MLS) protocol, as
specified in RFC 9420.
[31] Ania M Piotrowska, Jamie Hayes, Tariq Elahi, Sebastian Meiser, and
George Danezis. The Loopix anonymity system. InUSENIX Security
Symposium, 2017.
[32] The Economist. Iran’s regime walls off the internet.
https://www.economist.com/middle-east-and-africa/2026/03/26/
irans-regime-walls-off-the-internet, March 2026.
[33] The Economist. Russia wants to limit contact with the
outside world. https://www.economist.com/europe/2026/03/26/
russia-wants-to-limit-contact-with-the-outside-world, March 2026.
[34] Matthew Weidner, Martin Kleppmann, Daniel Hugenroth, and Alas-
tair R. Beresford. Key agreement for decentralized secure group mes-
saging with strong security guarantees. InACM SIGSAC Conference
on Computer and Communications Security (CCS), 2021.
[35] Matthew A Weidner. Group messaging for secure asynchronous
collaboration. Master’s thesis, University of Cambridge, 2019.
[36] Wire. Demystifying MLS: How a new standard is
redefining secure collaboration. https://wire.com/en/blog/
messaging-layer-security-mls-explained, 2025.
Appendix A.
BeeKEM pseudocode
We present BeeKEM as pseudocode in Figures 6 and 7.
Appendix B.
Details of Security Analysis
Proof of Theorem 1.Similar to [7], our proof will consist
of two steps: first, we bound the advantage of an adversary
that makesnchallenge queries by one that makes a single
challenge query; and second, we bound the advantage of an
adversary that performs a single challenge query.
Lemma 1.LetSEbe a symmetric encryption scheme,
NIKEbe a NIKE scheme compatible withSE, andΠ=
BeeKEM[SE,NIKE]. LetAbe aki-DCGKAadversary that
makescqueries to the challenge oracle. There exists a
ki-DCGKAadversaryA ′ that makes a single query to the
challenge oracle such that, for any integerk≥1,
Advki-dcgka
Π,bee-safek
(A)≤c·Adv ki-dcgka
Π,bee-safek
(A′).
We omit the proof of Lemma 1 as it follows from a
standard hybrid argument on challenge queries.
Theorem 2.Exactly the same as Theorem 1, except thatA
makesonly onechallenge oracle query.
Proof (Theorem 2).LetQ= (q 1,...,q e)be the queries
made byA, and letq ch :=CHALLENGE(id,c)be the
(unique) challenge query. LetBbe the BeeKEM tree stored
instates[id], the game variable that stores the local state of
each user at the timeq i is called. In BeeKEM, only update
operations generate new group secrets (§4.3). So,Bwas gen-
erated by the last queryq up∈Qperformed by the adversary
beforeq ch corresponding to an update processed byid. Let:
id∗ be the user that triggered the update (id∗ may beid);d≤
⌈log2n⌉be tree depth at the time of update; andv 0,...,v d
beid’s direct path.q up generates(pk 0,sk 0)← $ NIKE.Kg
forid∗ and storespk 0 atv 0; for everyj∈{1,...,d−1}
thereafter, it generates(pk j,sk j)← $ NIKE.Kg, computes
cj,u←SE.Enc(dk u
j,sk j)for alluin the sibling resolution,
wheredk u
j ←NIKE.SharedKey(sk j−1,pk u
j−1), and stores
(pkj,{c j,u})atv j.
We proceed via a hybrid argument over nodesv0,...,v d.
•Real world: Game G 0 corresponds to ki-DCGKA con-
ditioned on challenge bitb= 1.
•Forj∈[1,d]:
•NIKE hybrid: Game G 2j−1 is identical to game
G2j−2, except that alldk u
j during queryq up
are computed by sampling keys as random from
NIKE’s key space, as opposed to viaSharedKey.
•Encryption hybrid: Game G 2j is identical to game
G2j−1 except that allSE.Enc(dk u
j,sk j)during
queryq up are replaced bySE.Enc(dk u
j,0|skj|).
•Ideal world: The last game from the previous step, G 2d,
is equal to ki-DCGKA conditioned onb= 0, since the
root secret key is independent of the rest ofB.
15

Π.Create(st,I) :
/ /assumes user has calledΠ.Init(st,ε)first
assertst.G=ε∧I=∅
pk←PKI.Access(st.id)
Π.create-helper(st,id,pk)
op←"create"{public-key:pk}
st.G.record(op)
return{st:st,R:op,M:∅,S:⊥}
Π.create-helper(st,id,pk) :
st.root←B.buildBalancedTree(2)
st.leaf←B.getFreshLeaf(st.root)
B.setMember(st.leaf,id,pk)
st.G←G.create()
return
Π.Add(st,id ′) :
assertid ′ /∈st.root
ifshould-replay(st) :Π.replay(st)
pk←PKI.Access(id ′)
Π.add-helper(st,id ′,pk)
op←"add"{added-id:id ′,public-key:pk}
st.G.record(op)
return{st,R:op,M:∅,S:⊥}
Π.add-helper(st,id ′,pk) :
f←getFreshLeaf(st.root)
B.setMember(f,id ′,pk)
ifB.is-full(st.root) :st.r←doubleTree(st.root)
p←getParent(st.leaf)
blankPath(p,st.root)
return
Π.Remove(st,id ′) :
assertid ′∈st.root
ifshould-replay(st) :Π.replay(st)
removed-keys←Π.remove-helper(st,id ′)
op←"remove"{removed-id:id ′,
removed-keys:removed-keys}
st.G.record(op)
return{st,R:op,M:∅,S:⊥}
Π.remove-helper(st,id ′) :
l←getMemberNode(st.root,id ′)
removed-keys←blankPath(leaf,st.root)
returnremoved-keys
Π.Update(st) :
ifshould-replay(st) :Π.replay(st)
version-path←{}
removed-keys←∅
/ /update caller’s personal keypair
pk′
leaf,sk ′
leaf←Kg(1 λ)
st.sk←sk ′
leaf
removed-keys←getPks(st.leaf)
new-version←(pk ′
leaf,ε)
st.leaf.setVersions({new-version})
version-path[st.leaf]←{new-version}
/ /iteratively update direct path nodes
v←st.leaf
skv←st.sk
whilev̸=st.root:
p←getParent(v)
pk′
p,sk ′
p←Kg(1 λ)
sib←getSibling(v)
newCts←{}
forpku∈getResolutionPks(sib) :
dk′
u←NIKE.SharedKey(pku,skv)
ctu←SE.Enc(dk ′
u;sk ′
p)
newCts[pku]←ct u
removed-keys←removed-keys∪p.getPks
new-version←(pk ′
p,newCts)
p.setVersions({new-version})
version-path[p]←{new-version}
v←p
skv←sk ′
p
op←"update"{leaf:st.leaf,
version-path:version-path,
removed-keys:removed-keys}
st.G.record(o)
return{st:st,R:op,M:∅,S:sk v}
Π.update-helper(st,version-path) :
assertpath-is-valid(st.root,version-path)
for(v,new-version)∈version-path:
updated-versions←∅
/ /only keep versions whose public keys haven’t been removed
for(pkv,cts)∈v.getVersions() :
ifpk v /∈st.removed-keys:
updated-versions←updated-versions∪{(pk v,cts)}
updated-versions←updated-versions∪new-version
setVersions(v,updated-versions)
return
Figure 6. Full specification of the BeeKEM protocol, part 1.
We now analyze pairs of neighboring hybrids.
For NIKE Hybrids.We designBsuch that∀j∈[1,d],
 Pr [G 2j−1 = 1 ]−Pr [G 2j−2 = 1 ]≤Adv hkr-cks
NIKE (B)
.
AdversaryBrunsAand simulates the ki-DCGKA game,
but uses the challenge oracle in its own HKR-CKS [20]
game to to compute everydk u
j during queryq up. To do
so, duringq up,Bfirst computes(pk j,sk j)as usual, and
then calls the HKR-CKS registration oracleu+ 1times to
obtain(pk ∗
0,pk∗
1,...,pk ∗
u); keypk ∗
0 is used as the public
key for nodev j−1, and all other keys are used as the public
keys of the nodes in the sibling resolution. Then,Bcalls its
test oracleutimes with inputs(pk ∗
0,pk∗
i )i∈{1,...,u} to obtain
challenge keys(ck 1,ck 2,...,ck u); notice that all challenge
keys are either fresh keys, or computed viaSharedKey. Then
Busesck i to computec i
j←$ SE.Enc(cki,sk j), and stores
(pkj,{c i
j}i∈[u])inv j. Notice thatBcan compute nodes
above leveljand belowj−1by following the BeeKEM
protocol honestly.
16

Π.DecryptSecret(st) :
ifshould-replay(st) :Π.replay(st)
assertΠ.has-root-key(st)
/ /iteratively decrypt parent subgroup secret
v←st.leaf
skv←st.sk
whilev̸=st.root:
p←getParent(v)
ifisBlank(p)∨isConflict(p) :/ /skip such parents
v←p
continue
(pkp,ctMapp)←getVersions(p)[0]/ /parent has one version
sib←getSibling(v)
forpku∈getResolutionPks(sib) :
dku←NIKE.SharedKey(pku,skv)
ctu←ctMapp[pku]
skp←SE.Dec(dku;ctu)
ifsk p =⊥:continue
assertskp̸=⊥
v←p
skv←skp
returnskv
Π.Process(st,id,R,M) :
op←R
assertop.predecessors⊆G/ /opis in causal order
ifop.predecessors⊆G.head(G) :/ /operation is not concurrent
ifshould-replay(st) :
Π.replay(st)
Π.apply(st,op)
else:/ /operation is concurrent
ifst.pending-structural-ops:
st.G.record(op)
else ifop.τ="add"∨op.τ="remove":
st.pending-structural-ops←true
st.G.record(op)
else:
Π.apply(st,op)
S←Π.DecryptSecret(st)/ /possibly⊥
return{st:st,R:ε,M:ε,S s :S,S r :S}
Π.Init(id,G) :
st.id←id;st.G←G
st.pending-structural-ops←false
pk,sk←NIKE.Kg(1 λ)
PKI.Register(id,pk)
st.sk←sk
st.retainedKeys.register(pk,sk)
Π.replay(st)/ /restores user state
return
Π.has-root-key(st) :
return|st.root.getVersions()|= 1
Π.should-replay(st) :
heads←G.head(st.G)
returnst.pending-structural-ops∨(|heads|>1)
Π.replay(st) :
batches←topo-sort(st.G)
forbatch∈batches:
Π.apply-batch(st,batch)
st.pending-structural-ops←false
return
Π.apply-batch(st,ops) :
forop∈ops:
Π.apply(st,op)
removed-members←{op.id|op.τ="remove",op∈ops}
added-members←{op.id|op.τ="add",op∈ops}
added-members←added-members\removed-members
sort-added-leaves(st,added-members)
forid∈removed-members:
blankPath(st,op.id)
return
Π.apply(st,op) :
matchop.τ:
"add":Π.add-helper(st,op.id,op.pk)
"remove":Π.remove-helper(st,op.id)
"update":Π.update-helper(st,op.version-path)
"create":Π.create-helper(st,op.id,op.public-key)
return
Figure 7. Full specification of the BeeKEM protocol, part 2.
Let us discuss howBsimulates other queries forA.
ki-DCGKA queries that modify group membership modify
tree structure, but do not require cryptographic operations.
SoBcan execute the protocol honestly to simulate these.
Similarly, updates that are independent ofq up (i.e., which
did not establish or use anypk u
j−1), do not rely on anydk u
j ,
and soBcan also execute the protocol honestly to simulate
these. Future updates can be computed by following the
protocol honestly, sinceBknows all relevant public keys in
the update path ofq up.
Our remaining focus is thus on earlier updates from
sibling resolutions. First, consider each update operation
{qk
up}k∈[u] that precededq up and establishedpk k. A prob-
lem for our reduction approach above is that thepk ∗
k thatB
obtained from its game needs to be consistent with the public
key for thej-th node generated earlier duringq k
up. Fortu-
nately, by definition, the sibling of the updating leaf inq k
up
is theleaf in the challengedq up, so all keys in the co-path
of the updating nodes ofq k
up are available toB. Then, by
NIKEsymmetry,Bcan computedkusing thesecret key of
the sibling: inq k
up, computingdkasSharedKey(sk j−1,pk∗
k)
instead ofSharedKey(sk ∗
k,pk j−1).
For Encryption Hybrids.We designCs.t.∀j∈[1,d],
 Pr [G 2j = 1 ]−Pr [G 2j−1 = 1 ]≤Adv mu-cpa
SE (C)
.
AdversaryCrunsAand simulates the ki-DCGKA game, but
uses the challenge oracle in its own mu-CPA game to com-
17

ki-DCGKAA
Π[DGM],P :
forid∈I:states[id]←Π.Init(id)
ctr[·]←0
ctrM[·,·],dirM[·,·],scrts[·,·],addTrgt[·,·]←ε
needsRes[·,·],chal[·,·],dlvd[·,·,·]←false
b← ${0,1}
win←0
queries←()
b′←$AO(ctrM,dirM)
ifb ′ =b:win←1
ifP(queries) = 0 :win←0
returnwin
REVEAL(id,c) :
ifscrts[id,c] =ε:return⊥
ifchal[id,c]̸=false:return⊥
chal[id,c]←true
returnscrts[id,c]
CHALLENGE(id,c) :
ifscrts[id,c] =ε:return⊥
ifchal[id,c]̸=false:return⊥
S1←scrts[id,c];S 0←${0,1} |S0|
chal[id,c]←true
returnSb
COMPROMISE(id) :
returnstates[id]
CREATEGROUP(id 0,I) :
ifctrM[.,.]̸=ε:return⊥
ifid 0∈I:return⊥
(st,R,M,S)←Create(states[id 0],I)
ifR=ε∨S=ε:win←1
states[id0]←st;scrts[id 0,1]←S
ctrM[id0,1]←R;dirM[id 0,1]←M
ctr[id0]←1
needsRes[id0,1]←true
dlvd[id0,1,id 0]←true
MODUSER(id,id ′,Op) :
ifOp/∈{Add,Remove}:return⊥
if¬valid-member(id)∨id=id ′ :return⊥
ctr[id]←ctr[id] + 1;c←ctr[id]
(st,R,M,S)←Op(states[id],id ′)
ifR=ε∨S=ε:win←1
states[id]←st;scrts[id,c]←S
ctrM[id,c]←R;dirM[id,c]←M
ifOp=Add:addTrgt[id,c]←id ′
else:needsRes[id,c]←true
dlvd[id,c,id]←true
SENDUPDATE(id) :
if¬valid-member(id) :return⊥
ctr[id]←ctr[id] + 1;c←ctr[id]
(st′,R,M,S)←Update(states[id])
ifR=ε∨S=ε:win←1
states[id]←st;scrts[id,c]←S
ctrM[id,c]←R;dirM[id,c]←M
needsRes[id,c]←true
dlvd[id,c,id]←true
DELIVER(id,c,id ′) :
ifin-history(id,c,id ′) :return⊥
if¬should-receive(id,c,id ′) :return⊥
if¬casually-ready(id,c,id ′)
∧add-ready(id,c,id ′) :return⊥
ifctrM[id,c] =ε:return⊥
(st,R,M,S s,Sr)←
Process(states[id′],id,ctrM[id,c],ctrM[id,c,id ′])
states[id′]←st
ifshould-decrypt(id,c,id ′) :
ifS s̸=scrts[id,c] :win←1
else ifS s̸=ε:win←1
mustRes←
 
needsRes[id,c]∧
should-decrypt(id,c,id ′)

∨adds-member(id,c,id ′)
ifmustRes∧(R=ε∨S r =ε) :win←1
ifR̸=ε:
ctr[id′]←ctr[id ′] + 1;c ′←ctr[id ′]
ctrM[id′,c ′]←R;dirM[id ′,c ′]←M
scrts[id′,c ′]←S r;dlvd[id ′,c ′,id ′]←true
dlvd[id,c,id ′]←true
Figure 8. Key indistinguishability security for DCGKA schemes with respect to corrupted predicateP. AdversaryAhas access to oraclesO=
{REVEAL,CHALLENGE,COMPROMISE,CREATEGROUP,MODUSER,SENDUPDATE,DELIVER}.
pute everySE.Enc(dk u
j,sk j)during queryq up. Concretely,
Ccalls its key generation oracleutimes, and then calls
its challenge oracle (once per key index) with challenge
messagessk j and0 |skj|. Finally, it embeds the resulting
challenge ciphertext as the ciphertext inv j. Sincedk u
j is now
random from the previous hybrid transition,Bsimulates the
correct distribution forA.
The only place where node ciphertexts interact with
other operations are future update operations that require
decryption ofSE.Enc(dk u
j,sk j). However, such decryptions
will fail ifsk j is the all-zero string. So, to get around this,
Csimply maintains maintain a lookup table for subgroup
secretssk j, returning them whenever a node decryption is
performed, instead of runningSE.Dec. All other operations
can be simulated honestly, as they are independent ofsk j.
Combining all hybrid transitions, we thus get that
Advki-dcgka
Π,bee-safek
(A)≤⌈log 2n⌉·
 
Advhkr-cks
NIKE (B)+Advmu-cpa
SE (C)

Simulating Compromise Queries.We have not yet ex-
cluded the possibility thatAperforms a compromise query
whichB/Ccannot provide a convincing response for. We
now argue thatbee-safe(Figure 3) restrictsAsuch thatB
andCcan simulate responses to its compromises.
First consider the NIKE adversaryB. It answers some
of its update oracle queries with public keyspk ∗ obtained
from its HKR-CKS registration oracle (the corresponding
18

valid-member(id) :
∃(T∈ctrM) (dlvd[T, id])
in-history(id, c, id′) :
∃(T∈ctrM) (ctrM[id, c]⪯T∧dlvd[T, id ′])
should-decrypt(id, c, id′) :
id′∈DGM({T∈ctrM|T⪯ctrM[id, c]})
should-receive(id, c, id′) :
id′∈DGM({T∈ctrM|T⪯ctrM[id, c]
∨in-history(T, id′)})
casually-ready(id, c, id′) :
∀(T∈ctrM) (T≺ctrM[id, c] =⇒in-history(T, id ′))
add-ready(id, c, id′) :
(addTrgt[id, c] =id ′)∧∀(T∈ctrM)
 
(T≺ctrM[id, c]
∧should-decrypt(T, id ′)) =⇒dlvd[T, id ′]

adds-member(id, c, id′) :
letS={T∈ctrM|in-history(T, id ′)}in 
DGM(S∪{ctrM[id, c]})\DGM(S)̸=∅

Figure 9. Helper predicates for DCGKA security game (Figure 8). Deterministic functionDGMis adecentralized group membership function[34], which
takes as input a set of control messages and their casual relationships, and outputs the set of group members resulting from the scheme.
secret keys are unknown toB).Bassociates thesepk ∗ with
nodes which can access the group secret established byq up.
SupposeAperforms a compromise queryq c which would
obtain the personal secret of a leaf which is either (i) one
of these HKR-CKS keyssk ∗ or (ii) which is able to obtain
such an HKR-CKS key via Invariant 1. Such an adversary
Awould not satisfybee-safe, as by construction,q c obtains
key material which can access the challenged secretq up.
Therefore, any validAonly performs compromise queries
whichBcan faithfully simulate.
Now considerC.Csimulates the encryptions performed
during the updateq up by replacing the encryptions of
subgroup secretsSE.Enc(dk j,sk j)with encryptions from
its CPA challenge oracle on challenge pairs(sk j,0|skj|).
Suppose thatAperforms a compromiseq c which obtains
a personal secret which can access anydk j on the updated
path: the distribution of the ciphertexts, givendk j, would be
incorrect. Once again, such anAis excluded bybee-safe,
by construction ofq c. Hence, bothBandCsucceed in
simulating responses for anyAvalid underbee-safe.
19