SybilLimit: A Near-Optimal Social Network Defense against Sybil Attacks
Haifeng Yu
National University of Singapore
haifeng@comp.nus.edu.sg
Phillip B. Gibbons
Intel Research Pittsburgh
phillip.b.gibbons@intel.com
Michael Kaminsky
Intel Research Pittsburgh
michael.e.kaminsky@intel.com
Feng Xiao
National University of Singapore
xiaof@comp.nus.edu.sg
Abstract
Decentralized distributed systems such as peer-to-peer
systems are particularly vulnerable to sybil attacks, where
a malicious user pretends to have multiple identities (called
sybil nodes). Without a trusted central authority, defending
against sybil attacks is quite challenging. Among the small
number of decentralized approaches, our recent SybilGuard
protocol [43] leverages a key insight on social networks to
bound the number of sybil nodes accepted. Although its di-
rection is promising, SybilGuard can allow a large number
of sybil nodes to be accepted. Furthermore, SybilGuard as-
sumes that social networks are fast mixing, which has never
been conﬁrmed in the real world.
This paper presents the novel SybilLimit protocol that
leverages the same insight as SybilGuard but offers dramat-
ically improved and near-optimal guarantees. The number
of sybil nodes accepted is reduced by a factor of Θ( √n),
or around 200 times in our experiments for a million-node
system. We further prove that SybilLimit’s guarantee is at
most a log n factor away from optimal, when considering
approaches based on fast-mixing social networks. Finally,
based on three large-scale real-world social networks, we
provide the ﬁrst evidence that real-world social networks
are indeed fast mixing. This validates the fundamental as-
sumption behind SybilLimit’s and SybilGuard’s approach.
1. Introduction
Decentralized distributed systems (such as peer-to-peer
systems) are particularly vulnerable to sybil attacks [11],
where a malicious user pretends to have multiple identities
(called sybil identities or sybil nodes). In fact, such sybil at-
tacks have already been observed in the real world [19, 40]
in the Maze peer-to-peer system. Researchers have also
demonstrated [35] that it is surprisingly easy to launch sybil
attacks in the widely-used eMule system [12].
When a malicious user’s sybil nodes comprise a large
fraction of the nodes in the system, that one user is able
to “out vote” the honest users in a wide scope of collabora-
tive tasks. Examples of such collaborative tasks range from
Byzantine consensus [18] and voting schemes for email
spam [31] to implicit collaboration in redundant routing and
data replication in Distributed Hash Tables (DHTs) [7]. The
exact form of such collaboration and the exact fraction of
sybil nodes these collaborative tasks can tolerate may dif-
fer from case to case. However, a generic requirement is
that the number of sybil nodes (compared to the number of
honest users) needs to be properly bounded.
To defend against sybil attacks, simply monitoring each
node’s historical behavior is often insufﬁcient because sy bil
nodes can behave nicely initially, and then launch an attack.
Although a trusted central authority can thwart such attacks
by issuing credentials to actual human beings or requiring
payment [22], ﬁnding such a single entity that every user
worldwide is willing to trust can be difﬁcult or impossible
(especially if that entity requires users to provide sensit ive
information).
Without a trusted central authority, defending against
sybil attacks is much harder. Among the small number
of approaches, the simplest one perhaps is to bind identi-
ties to IP addresses or IP preﬁxes. Another approach is
to require every identity to solve puzzles that require hu-
man effort, such as CAPTCHAs [36]. Both approaches can
provide only limited protection—the adversary can readily
steal IP addresses with different preﬁxes in today’s Inter-
net [32], while CAPTCHAs can be re-posted on an adver-
sary’s website to be solved by users seeking access to that
site.
The SybilGuard approach. Recently, we proposed Sybil-
Guard [43], a new protocol for defending against sybil at-
tacks without relying on a trusted central authority. Sybil -
Guard leverages a key insight regarding social networks
(Figure 1). In a social network, the vertices (nodes) are iden-

Honest nodes Sybil nodes
Attack
Edges
Figure 1. The social network.
tities in the distributed system and the (undirected) edges
correspond to human-established trust relations in the rea l
world. The edges connecting the honest region (i.e., the re-
gion containing all the honest nodes) and the sybil region
(i.e., the region containing all the sybil identities creat ed
by malicious users) are called attack edges . SybilGuard
ensures that the number of attack edges is independent of
the number of sybil identities, and is limited by the number
of trust relation pairs between malicious users and honest
users. SybilGuard observes that if malicious users create
too many sybil identities, the graph will have a small quo-
tient cut—i.e., a small set of edges (the attack edges) whose
removal disconnects a large number of nodes (all the sybil
identities). On the other hand, “fast mixing” [26] social ne t-
works do not tend to have such cuts. SybilGuard leverages
the small quotient cut to limit the size of sybil attacks.
SybilGuard is a completely decentralized protocol and
enables any honest node V (called the veriﬁer ) to decide
whether or not to accept another node S (called the sus-
pect). “Accepting” means that V is willing to do collabo-
rative tasks with S. SybilGuard’s provable (probabilistic)
guarantees hold for (1 − ǫ)n veriﬁers out of the n honest
nodes, where ǫ is some small constant close to 0. (The re-
maining nodes get degraded, not provable, protection.) As-
suming fast-mixing social networks and assuming the num-
ber of attack edges is o(√n/ log n), SybilGuard guarantees
that any such veriﬁer, with probability at least 1 − δ (δ being
a small constant close to 0), will accept at mostO(√n log n)
sybil nodes per attack edge and at least (1 − ǫ)n honest
nodes.
While its direction is promising, SybilGuard suffers from
two major limitations. First, although the end guarantees
of SybilGuard are stronger than previous decentralized ap-
proaches, they are still rather weak in the absolute sense:
Each attack edge allows O(√n log n) sybil nodes to be
accepted. In a million-node synthetic social network, the
number of sybil nodes accepted per attack edge is nearly
2000 [43]. The situation can get worse: When the number
of attack edges g = Ω( √n/ log n) (or g > 15, 000 in the
million-node synthetic social network), SybilGuard can no
longer bound the number of accepted sybil nodesat all. Sec-
ond, SybilGuard critically relies on the assumption that so -
Number of attack edges g SybilGuard SybilLimit
(unknown to protocol) accepts accepts
o(√n/ log n) O(√n log n) O(log n)
Ω( √n/ log n) to
o(n/ log n) unlimited O(log n)
below ∼ 15, 000 ∼ 2000 ∼ 10
above ∼ 15, 000 and
below ∼ 100, 000 unlimited ∼ 10
Table 1. Number of sybil nodes accepted per
attack edge (out of an unlimited number of
sybil nodes), both asymptotically for n hon-
est nodes and experimentally for a million
honest nodes. Smaller is better.
cial networks are fast mixing, an assumption that had never
not been validated in the real world.
SybilLimit: A near-optimal protocol for real-world so-
cial networks. In this paper, we present a new protocol that
leverages the same insight as SybilGuard but offers dramat-
ically improved and near-optimal guarantees. We call the
protocol SybilLimit, because i) it limits the number of sybil
nodes accepted and ii) it is near-optimal and thus pushes
the approach to the limit. For any g = o(n/ log n), Sybil-
Limit can bound the number of accepted sybil nodes per
attack edge within O(log n) (see Table 1). This is a Θ( √n)
factor reduction from SybilGuard’s O(√n log n) guarantee.
In our experiments on the million-node synthetic social net-
work used in [43], SybilLimit accepts on average around 10
sybil nodes per attack edge, yielding nearly 200 times im-
provement over SybilGuard. Putting it another way, with
SybilLimit, the adversary needs to establish nearly 100,000
real-world social trust relations with honest users in orde r
for the sybil nodes to out-number honest nodes, as com-
pared to 500 trust relations in SybilGuard. We further prove
that SybilLimit is at most a log n factor from optimal in
the following sense: for any protocol based on the mixing
time of a social network, there is a lower bound of Ω(1)
on the number of sybil nodes accepted per attack edge. Fi-
nally, SybilLimit continues to provide the same guarantee
even when g grows to o(n/ log n), while SybilGuard’s guar-
antee is voided once g = Ω( √n/ log n). Achieving these
near-optimal improvements in SybilLimit is far from trivial
and requires the combination of multiple novel techniques.
SybilLimit achieves these improvements without compro-
mising on other properties as compared to SybilGuard (e.g.,
guarantees on the fraction of honest nodes accepted).
Next, we consider whether real-world social networks
are sufﬁciently fast mixing for protocols like SybilGuard
and SybilLimit. Even though some simple synthetic social
network models [17] have been shown [6, 14] to be fast
mixing under speciﬁc parameters, whether real-world so-
2

cial networks are indeed fast mixing is controversial [2].
In fact, social networks are well-known [3, 15, 24, 38]
to have groups or communities where intra-group edges
are much denser than inter-group edges. Such character-
istics, on the surface, could very well prevent fast mixing.
To resolve this question, we experiment with three large-
scale (up to nearly a million nodes) real-world social net-
work datasets crawled fromwww.friendster.com, www.
livejournal.com, and dblp.uni-trier.de. We
ﬁnd that despite the existence of social communities, even
social networks of such large scales tend to mix well within
a rather small number of hops (10 to 20 hops), and Sybil-
Limit is quite effective at defending against sybil attacks
based on such networks. These results provide the ﬁrst evi-
dence that real-world social networks are indeed fast mix-
ing. As such, they validate the fundamental assumption
behind the direction of leveraging social networks to limit
sybil attacks.
2. Related work
The negative results in Douceur’s initial paper on sybil
attacks [11] showed that sybil attacks cannot be prevented
unless special assumptions are made. Some researchers [9]
proposed exploiting the bootstrap graph of DHTs. Here,
the insight is that the large number of sybil nodes will all be
introduced (directly or indirectly) into the DHT by a small
number of malicious users. Bootstrap graphs may appear
similar to our approach, but they have the drawback that an
honest user may also indirectly introduce a large number of
other honest users. Such possibility makes it difﬁcult to di s-
tinguish malicious users from honest users. Instead of sim-
ply counting the number of nodes introduced directly and
indirectly, SybilLimit distinguishes sybil nodes from hon -
est nodes based on graph mixing time. It was shown [9]
that the effectiveness of the bootstrap graph approach dete -
riorates as the adversary creates more and more sybil nodes,
whereas SybilLimit’s guarantees hold no matter how many
sybil nodes are created. Some researchers [5] assume that
the attacker has only one or small number of network posi-
tions in the Internet. If such assumption holds, then all sybil
nodes created by the attacker will have similar network co-
ordinates [29]. Unfortunately, once the attacker has more
than a handful of network positions, the attacker can fabri-
cate arbitrary network coordinates.
In reputation systems, colluding sybil nodes may artiﬁ-
cially increase a (malicious) user’s rating (e.g., in Ebay) .
Some systems such as Credence [37] rely on a trusted cen-
tral authority to prevent this. There are existing distribu ted
defenses [8, 13, 33] to prevent such artiﬁcial rating in-
creases. These defenses, however, cannot bound the num-
ber of sybil nodes accepted, and in fact, all the sybil nodes
can obtain the same rating as the malicious user. Sybil at-
tacks and related problems have also been studied in sensor
networks [28, 30], but the approaches and solutions usually
rely on the unique properties of sensor networks (e.g., key
predistribution). Margolin et al. [23] proposed using cashre-
wards to motivate one sybil node to reveal other sybil nodes,
which is complimentary to bounding the number of sybil
nodes accepted in the ﬁrst place.
Social networks are one type of trust networks. There
are other types of trust networks, e.g., based on historical
interactions/transactions between users [8, 13, 37]. As in
LOCKSS [21], Ostra [25], and SybilGuard [43], SybilLimit
assumes a social network with a much stronger associated
trust than these other types of trust networks [8, 13, 37].
LOCKSS uses social networks for digital library mainte-
nance, and not as a general defense against sybil attacks. Os-
tra leverages social networks to prevent the adversary from
sending excessive unwanted communication. In compari-
son, SybilLimit’s functionality is more general: Because
SybilLimit already bounds the number of sybil nodes, it
can readily provide functionality equivalent to Ostra by al -
locating each node a communication quota. Furthermore,
different from Ostra, SybilLimit has strong, provable end
guarantees and has a complete design that is decentralized.
The relationship between SybilGuard and SybilLimit is dis-
cussed in more detail in Sections 4 and 5.3. Unlike many
other works [8, 13, 33, 37] on trust networks, SybilLimit
does not use trust propagation in the social network.
Mislove et al. [24] also studied the graph properties of
several online real-world social networks. But Mislove et
al. did not focus on mixing time properties or their appro-
priateness for defending against sybil attacks. Finally, apre-
liminary version of this work appeared as [41].
3. System model and attack model
SybilLimit adopts a similar system model and attack
model as SybilGuard [43]. The system has n honest human
beings as honest users, each with one honest identity/node.
Honest nodes obey the protocol. The system also has one
or more malicious human beings as malicious users, each
with one or more identities/nodes. To unify terminology, we
call all identities created by malicious users as sybil identi-
ties/nodes. Sybil nodes are byzantine and may behave arbi-
trarily. All sybil nodes are colluding and are controlled by
an adversary. A compromised honest node is completely
controlled by the adversary and hence is considered as a
sybil node and not as an honest node.
There is an undirected social network among all the
nodes, where each undirected edge corresponds to human-
established trust relations in the real world. The adversar y
may create arbitrary edges among sybil nodes in the social
network. Each honest user knows her neighbors in the so-
cial network, while the adversary has full knowledge of the
3

entire social network. The honest nodes have m undirected
edges among themselves in the social network. For exposi-
tory purposes, we sometimes also consider them undirected
edges as 2m directed edges. The adversary may eavesdrop
on any messages sent in the protocol.
Every node is simultaneously a suspect and a veriﬁer.
As in SybilGuard, we assume that each suspect S has a
locally generated public/private key pair, which serves to
prevent the adversary from “stealing” S’s identity after S
is accepted. When a veriﬁer V accepts a suspect S, V ac-
tually accepts S’s public key, which can be used later to
authenticate S. We do not assume a public key infrastruc-
ture, and the protocol does not need to solve the public key
distribution problem since the system is not concerned with
binding public keys to human beings or computers. A ma-
licious user may create multiple different key pairs for her
different sybil nodes.
4. Background: SybilGuard
To better understand the improvements of SybilLimit
over SybilGuard and the challenges involved, this section
provides a concise review of SybilGuard.
Random walks and random routes. SybilGuard uses a
special kind of random walk, called random routes, in the
social network. In a random walk, at each hop, the current
node ﬂips a coin on-the-ﬂy to select a uniformly random
edge to direct the walk (the walk is allowed to turn back).
For random routes, each node uses a pre-computed random
permutation, “ x1x2...xd” where d is the degree of the node,
as a one-to-one mapping from incoming edges to outgoing
edges. A random route entering via edge i will always
exit via edge xi. This pre-computed permutation, or rout-
ing table , serves to introduce external correlation across
multiple random routes. Namely, once two random routes
traverse the same directed edge, they will merge and stay
merged (i.e., they converge). Furthermore, the outgoing
edge uniquely determines the incoming edge as well; thus
the random routes can beback-traced. These two properties
are key to SybilGuard’s guarantees. As a side effect, such
routing tables also introduce internal correlation within a
single random route. Namely, if a random route visits the
same node more than once, the exiting edges will be corre-
lated. We showed [43] that such correlation tends to be neg-
ligible, and moreover, in theory it can be removed entirely
using a more complex design. Thus, we ignore internal cor-
relation from now on.
Without internal correlation, the behavior of a single
random route is exactly the same as a random walk. In
connected and non-bipartite graphs, as the length of a ran-
dom walk goes toward inﬁnity, the distribution of the last
node (or edge) traversed becomes independent of the start-
ing node of the walk. Intuitively, this means when the walk
is sufﬁciently long, it “forgets” where it started. This ﬁ-
nal distribution of the last node (or edge) traversed is called
the node (or edge) stationary distribution [26] of the graph.
The edge stationary distribution (of any graph) is always a
uniform distribution, while the node stationary distribut ion
may not be. Mixing time [26] describes how fast we ap-
proach the stationary distribution as the length of the walk
increases. More precisely, mixing time is the walk length
needed to achieve a certainvariation distance [26], ∆ , to the
stationary distribution. Variation distance is a value in[0, 1]
that describes the “distance” between two distributions—
see [26] for the precise deﬁnition. A small variation dis-
tance means that the two distributions are similar. For a
graph (family) with n nodes, we say that it is fast mixing
if its mixing time is O(log n + log 1
∆ ). In this paper, we
only care about ∆ = Θ( 1
n ), and we will simply say that a
fast mixing graph has O(log n) mixing time. The following
known result follows directly from the deﬁnition of mixing
time and a useful interpretation of variation distance (The -
orem 5.2 in [20]). This result is all we need in this paper
about mixing time:
Theorem 1 Consider any fast mixing graph with n nodes.
A random walk of length Θ(log n) is sufﬁciently long such
that with probability at least 1 − 1
n, the last node/edge tra-
versed is drawn from the node/edge stationary distribution
of the graph.
In SybilGuard, a random walk starting from an hon-
est node in the social network is called escaping if it ever
crosses any attack edge.
Theorem 2 (from [43]) In any connected social network
with n nodes and g attack edges, the probability of a length-
l random walk starting from a uniformly random honest
node being escaping is at most gl/n.
Accepting honest nodes. In SybilGuard, each node per-
forms a random route of length l = Θ( √n log n). A ver-
iﬁer V only accepts a suspect S if S’s random route in-
tersects with V ’s. Theorem 2 tells us that V ’s random
route will stay in the honest region with probability at least
1 − gl/n = 1 − o(1) for g = o(√n/ log n). Theorem 1
further implies that with high probability, a random route
Θ( √n log n) long will include Θ( √n) independent random
nodes drawn from the node stationary distribution. It then
follows from the generalized Birthday Paradox [1, 27] that
an honest suspect S will have a random route that intersects
with V ’s random route with probability 1 − δ for any given
(small) constant δ > 0.
Bounding the number of sybil nodes accepted. To inter-
sect with V ’s non-escaping random route, a sybil suspect’s
random route must traverse one of the attack edges. Con-
sider Figure 2 where there is only a single attack edge. Be-
cause of the convergence property, all the random routes
4

Sybil nodes  Honest nodes
intersection
Verifier
Figure 2. Routes over the same edge merge.
from all sybil suspects must merge completely once they
traverse the attack edge. All these routes differ only in how
many hops of the route remain after crossing the attack edge
(between 1 and l − 1 hops for a length-l route). Because the
remaining parts of these routes are entirely in the honest re-
gion, they are controlled by honest nodes. Thus, there will
be fewer than l = O(√n log n) random routes that emerge
from the sybil region. In general, the number of such routes
will be O(g√n log n) for g attack edges. SybilGuard is de-
signed such that only one public key can beregisteredat the
nodes on each random route. This means that the adversary
can register only O(g√n log n) public keys for all the sybil
nodes combined. In order to accept a suspectS, V must ﬁnd
an intersection between its random route and S’s random
route and then conﬁrm that S is properly registered at the in-
tersecting node. As a result, only O(√n log n) sybil nodes
will be accepted per attack edge. Forg = o(√n/ log n), the
total number of sybil nodes accepted is o(n).
Estimating the needed length of random routes. While
the length of the random routes is Θ( √n log n), the value
of n is unknown. In SybilGuard, nodes locally determine
the needed length of the random routes via sampling. Each
node is assumed to know a rough upper bound Z on the
mixing time. To obtain a sample, a node A ﬁrst performs a
random walk of length Z, ending at some node B. Next A
and B each perform random routes to determine how long
the routes need to be to intersect. A sample is bad (i.e.,
potentially inﬂuenced by the adversary) if any of the three
random walks/routes in the process is escaping. Applying
Theorem 2 shows that the probability of a sample being bad
is at most 3gl/n = o(1) for g = o(√n/ log n).
5. SybilLimit protocol
As summarized in Table 1, SybilGuard accepts
O(√n log n) sybil nodes per attack edge and further re-
quires g to be o(√n/ log n). SybilLimit, in contrast, aims
to reduce the number of sybil nodes accepted per attack
edge to O(log n) and further to allow for g = o(n log n).
This is challenging, because SybilGuard’s requirement on
g = o(√n/ log n) is fundamental in its design and is simul-
taneously needed to ensure:
• Sybil nodes accepted by SybilGuard. The total num-
ber of sybil nodes accepted, O(g√n log n), is o(n).
• Escaping probability in SybilGuard. The es-
caping probability of the veriﬁer’s random route,
O(g√n log n/n), is o(1).
• Bad sample probability in SybilGuard. When esti-
mating the random route length, the probability of a
bad sample, O(g√n log n/n), is o(1).
Thus to allow for larger g, SybilLimit needs to resolve all
three issues above. Being more “robust” in only one aspect
will not help.
SybilLimit has two component protocols, a secure ran-
dom route protocol(Section 5.1) and a veriﬁcation protocol
(Section 5.2). The ﬁrst protocol runs in the background and
maintains information used by the second protocol. Some
parts of these protocols are adopted from SybilGuard, and
we will indicate so when describing those parts. To high-
light the major novel ideas in SybilLimit (as compared to
SybilGuard), we will summarize these ideas in Section 5.3.
Later, Section 6 will present SybilLimit’s end-to-end guar -
antees.
5.1. Secure random route protocol
Protocol description. We ﬁrst focus on all the suspects
in SybilLimit, i.e., nodes seeking to be accepted. Fig-
ure 3 presents the pseudo-code for how they perform ran-
dom routes—this protocol is adapted from SybilGuard with
little modiﬁcation. In the protocol, each node has a pub-
lic/private key pair, and communicates only with its neigh-
bors in the social network. Every pair of neighbors share a
unique symmetric secret key (the edge key, established out-
of-band [43]) for authenticating each other. A sybil node
M1 may disclose its edge key with some honest node A to
another sybil node M2. But because all neighbors are au-
thenticated via the edge key, when M2 sends a message to
A, A will still route the message as if it comes from M1.
In the protocol, every node has a pre-computed random per-
mutation x1x2...xd (d being the node’s degree) as its rout-
ing table. The routing table never changes unless the node
adds new neighbors or deletes old neighbors. A random
route entering via edge i always exits via edge xi. A sus-
pect S starts a random route by propagating along the route
its public key KS together with a counter initialized to 1.
Every node along the route increments the counter and for-
wards the message until the counter reaches w, the length
of a random route. In SybilLimit, w is chosen to be the mix-
ing time of the social network; given a fast-mixing social
network, w = O(log n).
Let “ A→B” be the last (directed) edge traversed by S’s
random route. We call this edge thetail of the random route.
Node B will see the counter having a value of w and thus
5

Executed by each suspect S:
1. S picks a uniformly random neighbor Y ;
2. S sends to Y : ⟨1, S’s public key KS, MAC(1||KS)⟩with the MAC generated using the edge key between S and Y ;
Executed by each node B upon receiving a message ⟨i, KS, MAC⟩from some neighbor A:
1. discard the message if the MAC does not verify or i < 1 or i > w ;
2. if ( i = w) { record KS under the edge name “ KA→KB” where KA and KB are A’s and B’s public key, respectively;}
else {
3. look up the routing table and determine to which neighbor ( C) the random route should be directed;
4. B sends to C: ⟨i + 1, KS, MAC((i + 1)||KS)⟩with the MAC generated using the edge key between B and C;
}
Figure 3. Protocol for suspects to do random routes and regis ter their public keys.
reversed routes
A
K B
A B
S
K D
K C
K S 12
DC
V
2w 1
w
A
1
2
w
S
forward routes
B
reversed routes
K
Figure 4. (i) Suspect S propagates KS for w
hops in an s-instance. (ii) KA and KB propa-
gated back to suspect S in an s-instance. (iii)
KC and KD propagated back to a veriﬁer V in
a v-instance.
record KS under the name of that tail (more speciﬁcally,
under the name of “ KA→KB” where KA and KB are A’s
and B’s public key, respectively). Notice that B may poten-
tially overwrite any previously recorded key under the name
of that tail. When B records KS, we say that S registers
its public key with that tail. Our veriﬁcation protocol, de-
scribed later, requires that S know A’s and B’s public keys
and IP addresses. To do so, similar to SybilGuard, Sybil-
Limit invokes the protocol in Figure 3 a second time, where
every node uses a “reversed” routing table (i.e., a random
route entering via edge xi will exit via edge i). This enables
A and B to propagate their public keys and IP addresses
backward along the route, so that S can learn about them
(Figure 4).
Different from SybilGuard, SybilLimit invokes r inde-
pendent instances (called s-instances) of the previous pro-
tocol for the suspects. The value of r should be Θ( √m),
and later we will explain how nodes can automatically pick
the appropriate r. In every s-instance, each suspect uses the
protocol in Figure 3 to perform one random route and to
register its public key with the tail. Across all s-instances, a
suspect will thus register its public key with r tails. Addi-
tionally in every s-instance, SybilLimit invokes the protocol
a second time for each suspect using reversed routing tables,
so that the suspects know their tails. The routing tables used
in different s-instances are completely independent. Note ,
however, that all suspects share the same r s-instances—
this is critical to preserve the desirable convergence/bac k-
traceability property among their random routes in the same
s-instance.
Similarly, every veriﬁer performs r random routes. To
avoid undesirable correlation between the veriﬁers’ rando m
routes and the suspects’ random routes, SybilLimit uses an-
other r independent instances (called v-instances) for all
veriﬁers. Veriﬁers do not need to register their public keys —
they only need to know their tails. Thus in each v-instance,
SybilLimit invokes the protocol in Figure 3 once for each
veriﬁer, with reversed routing tables (Figure 4).
Performance overheads. While SybilLimit uses the same
technique as SybilGuard to do random routes, the overhead
incurred is different because SybilLimit uses multiple in-
stances of the protocol with a shorter route length. Inter-
estingly, using Θ( √m) instances of the random route pro-
tocol does not incur extra storage or communication over-
head by itself. First, a node does not need to store Θ( √m)
routing tables, since it can keep a single random seed and
then generate any routing table on the ﬂy as needed. Sec-
ond, messages in different instances can be readily com-
bined to reduce the number of messages. Remember that
in all Θ( √m) instances, a node communicates only with its
neighbors. Given that the number of neighbors d is usually
quite small on average (e.g., 20), a node needs to send only
d messages instead of Θ( √m) messages. Finally, the total
number of bits a node needs to send in the protocol is linear
with the number of random routes times the length of the
routes. Thus, the total number of bits sent in thed messages
in SybilLimit is Θ( √m log n), as compared to Θ( √n log n)
in SybilGuard.
All these random routes need to be performed only one
time (until the social network changes) and the relevant in-
formation will be recorded. Further aggressive optimiza-
tions are possible (e.g., propagating hashes of public keys
instead of public keys themselves). We showed [43] that
in a million-node system with average node degree be-
6

escaping
non−escaping escaping
Honest nodes Sybil nodes
Figure 5. Escaping and non-escaping tails.
ing 10, an average node using SybilGuard needs to send
400KBs of data every few days. Under the same parame-
ters, an average node using SybilLimit would send around
400 ×
√
10 ≈ 1300KB of data every few days, which is
still quite acceptable. We refer the reader to [43] for further
details.
Basic security properties. The secure random route pro-
tocol provides some interesting basic security guarantees .
We ﬁrst formalize some notions. An honest suspect S has
one tail in every s-instance, deﬁned as the tail of its random
route in that s-instance. We similarly deﬁne the r tails of
a veriﬁer. A random route starting from an honest node is
called escaping if it ever traverses any attack edge. The tail
of an escaping random route is called an escaping tail (Fig-
ure 5), even if the escaping random route eventually comes
back to the honest region. By directing the random route in
speciﬁc ways, the adversary can control/inﬂuence to which
directed edge an escaping tail corresponds. But the adver-
sary has no inﬂuence over non-escaping tails.
In any given s-instance, for every attack edge connecting
honest node A and sybil node M, imagine that we perform a
random route starting from the edge “M →A”, until either a
subsequent hop traverses an attack edge or the length of the
route reaches w. Because the adversary can fake a series of
routes that each end on one of the edges on this route, these
edges are called tainted tails. Intuitively, the adversary may
register arbitrary public keys with these tails. In a given s -
instance, one can easily see that the set of tainted tails is
disjoint from the set of non-escaping tails from honest sus-
pects. The reason is that random routes are back-traceable
and starting from a non-escaping tail, one can always trace
back to the starting node of the random route, encountering
only honest nodes. This means that an honest suspect will
never need to compete with the sybil nodes for a tail, as long
as its random route is non-escaping.
After the secure random route protocol stabilizes (i.e., all
propagations have completed), the following properties are
guaranteed to hold:
• In every s-instance, each directed edge in the honest
region allows only one public key to be registered.
• In every s-instance, an honest suspect S can always
register its public key with its non-escaping tail (if any)
in that s-instance.
• In every s-instance, among all the directed edges in
the honest region, sybil nodes can register their pub-
lic keys only with tainted tails. This is because nodes
communicate with only their neighbors (together with
proper authentication) and also because the counter in
the registration message is incremented at each hop.
• In every s-instance (v-instance), if an honest suspect S
(an honest veriﬁer V ) has a non-escaping tail “ A→B”,
then S (V ) knows A’s and B’s public keys.
User and node dynamics. Most of our discussion so far
assumes that the social network is static and all nodes are
online. All techniques in SybilGuard to efﬁciently deal with
user/node dynamics, as well as techniques to properly over-
write stale registration information for preventing certain at-
tacks [43], apply to SybilLimit without modiﬁcation. We
do not elaborate on these due to space limitations.
5.2. V eriﬁcation protocol
Protocol description. After the secure random route pro-
tocol stabilizes, a veriﬁer V can invoke the veriﬁcation pro-
tocol in Figure 6 to determine whether to accept a suspect
S. S must satisfy both the intersection condition (Step 2–
4 in Figure 6) and the balance condition (Step 5–7) to be
accepted.
The intersection condition requires that S’s tails and V ’s
tails must intersect (instance number is ignored when de-
termining intersection), with S being registered at the in-
tersecting tail. In contrast, SybilGuard has an intersecti on
condition on nodes (instead of on edges or tails). For the
balance condition, V maintains r counters corresponding to
its r tails (Figure 7). Every accepted suspect increments the
“load” of some tail. The balance condition requires that ac-
cepting S should not result in a large “load spike” and cause
the load on any tail to exceed h ·max(log r, a). Here a is
the current average load across all V ’s tails and h > 1 is
some universal constant that is not too small (we use h = 4
in our experiments). In comparison, SybilGuard does not
have any balance condition.
Performance overheads. The veriﬁcation protocol can be
made highly efﬁcient. Except for Steps 1 and 3, all steps in
the protocol involve only local computation. Instead of di-
rectly sending Θ( r) public keys in Step 1, S can readily use
a Bloom Filter [26] to summarize the set of keys. In Step 3,
for every intersecting tail inX, V needs to contact one node.
On average, the number of intersections between a veriﬁer
V and an honest suspect S in the honest region isO(1) with
r = Θ( √m), resulting in O(1) messages. The adversary
may intentionally introduce additional intersections in t he
sybil region between V ’s and S’s escaping tails. However,
if those extra intersecting nodes (introduced by the adver-
sary) do not reply,V can blacklist them. If they do reply and
7

1. S sends to V its public key KS and S’s set of tails {(j, KA, KB) | S’s tail in the jth s-instance is the edge “ A→B”
and KA (KB) is A’s (B’s) public key};
// Apply the intersection condition (the instance number is ignored when determining intersection)
2. V computes the set of intersecting tails X = {(i, KA, KB) | (i, KA, KB) is V ’s tail and (j, KA, KB) is S’s tail};
3. For every (i, KA, KB) ∈ X, V authenticates B using KB and asks B whether S is registered under “ KA→KB”
If not, remove (i, KA, KB) from X;
4. If X is empty then reject S and return;
// Apply the balance condition (ci is the counter for V ’s tail in the ith v-instance)
5. Let a = (1 +∑ r
i=1 ci)/r and b = h ·max(log r, a); // see text for description of h
6. Let cmin be the smallest counter among those ci’s corresponding to (i, KA, KB) that still remain in X
(with tie-breaking favoring smaller i);
7. If (cmin + 1 > b) then reject S; otherwise, increment cmin and accept S;
Figure 6. Protocol for V to verify S. V has r counters c1, ...cr initialized to zero at start-up time.
j, k,
20
15
11
S intersects with 3 of V’s 
tails: and . Tail  
has the smallest load, so V
increments its load, checking  
to make sure the load does
not exceed the threshold. 
V’s tails
10
1
iLoad (c ’s)
l j
 j
 k
l
 r
Figure 7. Balance condition example.
if V is overwhelmed by the overhead of such replies, then
the adversary is effectively launching a DoS attack. Notice
that the adversary can launch such a DoS attack against V
even if V were not running SybilLimit. Thus such attacks
are orthogonal to SybilLimit.
5.3. Key ideas in SybilLimit, vis­ `a­vis SybilGuard
This section highlights the key novel ideas in SybilLimit
that eventually lead to the substantial end-to-end improve -
ments over SybilGuard.
Intersection condition. To help convey the intuition, we
will assume g = 1 in the following. In SybilLimit, each
node uses r = Θ( √m) random routes of length w =
Θ(log n) instead of a single random route of length l =
Θ( √n log n) as in SybilGuard. 1 In SybilGuard, each node
along a random route corresponds to a “slot” for registering
the public key of some node. The adversary can fake l dis-
tinct random routes of lengthl that cross the attack edge and
enter the honest region. This means that the adversary will
have 1 + 2 + ... + l = Θ( l2) = Θ( n log2 n) slots for the
sybil nodes in SybilGuard.
In SybilLimit, the tail of each random route corresponds
to a “slot” for registration. In any given s-instance, the ad -
1As an engineering optimization, a degree- d node in SybilGuard can
perform d random routes of lengthΘ( √n log n), but this does not improve
SybilGuard’s asymptotic guarantees.
versary can fake w distinct random routes of length w that
cross the attack edge and enter the honest region. Notice
that here SybilLimit reduces the number of such routes by
using a w that is much smaller than l. Further, because we
are concerned only with tails now, in the given s-instance,
the adversary will have only w slots. With r s-instances,
the adversary will have r ·w = Θ( √m log n) such slots to-
tal, for all the sybil nodes. This reduction from Θ( n log2 n)
slots to Θ( √m log n) slots is the ﬁrst key step in SybilLimit.
But doing r random routes introduces two problems.
The ﬁrst is that it is impossible for a degree- d node to
have more that d distinct random routes, if we directly use
SybilGuard’s approach. SybilLimit observes that one can
use many independent instances of the random route pro-
tocol, while still preserving the desired convergence/bac k-
traceability property. The second problem is more seri-
ous. SybilGuard relies on the simple fact that the number
of distinct routes from the adversary is l. All slots on the
same route must have the same public key registered. This
ensures that the total number of sybil nodes registered is
l. In SybilLimit, there are r ·w distinct routes from the
adversary. Thus, a naive design may end up accepting
r ·w = Θ( √m log n) sybil nodes, which is even worse
than SybilGuard. SybilLimit’s key idea here is to perform
intersections on edges instead of on nodes. Because the
stationary distribution on edges is always uniform in any
graph, it ensures that the ﬂip-side of the Birthday Paradox
holds. Namely, Θ( √m) slots are both sufﬁcient and nec-
essary for intersection to happen (with high probability).
Together with earlier arguments on the number of slots in
SybilLimit, this will eventually allow us to prove that the
number of sybil nodes with tails intersecting with V ’s non-
escaping tails (more precisely, V ’s uniform non-escaping
tails—see later) is O(log n) per attack edge.
Balance condition. In SybilGuard, the veriﬁer’s random
route is either escaping or non-escaping, resulting in an “all-
or-nothing” effect. For SybilGuard to work, this single ran -
dom route must be non-escaping. Because of the large l of
8

Θ( √n log n), the escaping probability will be Ω(1) once g
reaches Ω( √n/ log n). Using much shorter random routes
of length w in SybilLimit decreases such escaping proba-
bility. But on the other hand, because a veriﬁer in Sybil-
Limit needs to do r such routes, it remains quite likely that
some of them are escaping. In fact, with r = Θ( √m) and
w = Θ(log n), the probability of at least one of the r routes
being escaping in SybilLimit is even larger than the prob-
ability of the single length- l random route being escaping
in SybilGuard. Thus, so far we have only made the “all-or-
nothing” effect in SybilGuard fractional.
SybilLimit relies on its (new) balance condition to ad-
dress this fraction of escaping routes. To obtain some intu-
ition, let us imagine the veriﬁer V ’s tails as bins that can
accommodate up to a certain load. When V accepts a sus-
pect S, out of all of V ’s tails that intersect with S’s tails, S
conceptually increments the load of the least loaded tail/bin.
Because of the randomness in the system, one would conjec-
ture that all of V ’s tails should have similar load. If this is
indeed true, then we can enforce a quota on the load of each
tail, which will in turn bound the number of sybil nodes ac-
cepted by V ’s escaping tails. Later, we will show that the
balance condition bounds the number within O(g log n).
Benchmarking technique. The SybilLimit protocol in Fig-
ures 3 and 6 assumes thatr = Θ( √m) is known. Obviously,
without global knowledge, every node in SybilLimit needs
to estimate r locally. Recall that SybilGuard also needs
to estimate some system parameter (more speciﬁcally, the
length of the walk). SybilGuard uses the sampling tech-
nique to do so, which only works for g = o(√n/ log n).
To allow any g = o(n/ log n), SybilLimit avoids sampling
completely. Instead, it use a novel and perhaps counter-
intuitive benchmarking technique that mixes the real sus-
pects with some random benchmark suspects that are al-
ready known to be mostly honest. The technique guaran-
tees that a node will never over-estimate r regardless of
the adversary’s behavior. If the adversary causes an under-
estimation for r, somewhat counter-intuitively, the tech-
nique can ensure that SybilLimit still achieves its end guar -
antees despite the under-estimated r. We will leave the de-
tailed discussion to Section 7.
6. Provable guarantees of SybilLimit
While the intersection and balance conditions are sim-
ple at the protocol/implementation level, it is far from ob-
vious why the designs provide the desired guarantees. We
adopt the philosophy that all guarantees of SybilLimit must
be proved mathematically, since experimental methods can
cover only a subset of the adversary’s strategies. Our
proofs pay special attention to the correlation among var-
ious events, which turns out to be a key challenge. We
cannot assume independence for simplicity because after
all, SybilLimit exactly leverages external correlation among
random routes. The following is the main theorem on Sybil-
Limit’s guarantee:
Theorem 3 Assume that the social network’s honest region
is fast mixing and g = o(n/ log n). For any given constants
(potentially close to zero) ǫ > 0 and δ > 0, there is a set of
(1 − ǫ)n honest veriﬁers and universal constants w0 and r0,
such that using w = w0 log n and r = r0
√m in SybilLimit
will guarantee that for any given veriﬁer V in the set, with
probability at least 1 − δ, V accepts at most O(log n) sybil
nodes per attack edge and at least (1 − ǫ)n honest nodes.
For the remaining small fraction of ǫn honest veriﬁers,
SybilLimit provides a degraded guarantee that is not prov-
able. Because of space limitations, we will provide mostly
intuitions in the following and leave formal/complete proofs
to our technical report [42].
6.1. Intersection condition
Preliminaries: Classifying tails and nodes. As prepara-
tion, we ﬁrst carefully classify tails and nodes. Table 2
summarizes the key deﬁnitions we will use. Consider a
given veriﬁer V (or suspect S) and a given v-instance (or s-
instance). We classify its tail into 3 possibilities: i) the tail
is an escaping tail (recall Section 5.1), ii) the tail is not es-
caping and is drawn from the (uniform) edge stationary dis-
tribution (i.e., a uniform tail), or iii) the tail is not escaping
and is drawn from some unknown distribution on the edges
(i.e., a non-uniform tail).2 In a given v-instance, the routing
tables of all honest nodes will entirely determine whether
V ’s tail is escaping and in the case of a non-escaping tail,
which edge is the tail. Thus, the adversary has no inﬂuence
over non-escaping tails.
Because we do not know the distribution of the non-
uniform tails, few probabilistic properties can be derived
for them. Escaping tails are worse because their distribu-
tion is controlled by the adversary. Assuming that the hon-
est region of the social network is fast mixing, our technical
report [42] proves the following:
Lemma 4 Consider any given constant (potentially close
to zero) ǫ > 0. We can always ﬁnd a universal constant
w0 > 0, such that there exists a set H of at least (1 − ǫ)n
honest nodes (called non-escaping nodes) satisfying the fol-
lowing property: If we perform a length- w random walk
starting from any non-escaping node with w = w0 log n,
then the tail is a uniform tail (i.e., a uniformly random di-
rected edge in the honest region) with probability at least
1 − O( g log n
n ).
2A ﬁnite-length random walk can only approach but never reach the
stationary distribution. Thus a small fraction of tails wil l be non-uniform
(also see Theorem 1).
9

Table 2. Terminology used in proofs (see text for precise deﬁ nitions)
escaping route random route from an honest node that traverses an attack edge
escaping tail tail of an escaping route
tainted tail any edge in the honest region on a length-w random route starting from an attack edge
uniform tail non-escaping tail from the uniform edge distribution
non-uniform tail non-escaping tail that is not a uniform tail
non-escaping node honest node such that a length-w random walk has a uniform tail with 1 − o(1) probability
escaping node honest node that is not a non-escaping node
uniform tail set the set of all uniform tails of a given honest node
tainted tail set set of all tainted tails
As a reminder, the probability in the above lemma is de-
ﬁned over the domain of all possible routing table states—
obviously, if all routing tables are already determined, th e
tail will be some ﬁxed edge.
It is still possible for the tail of a non-escaping node to
be escaping or non-uniform—it is just that such probabil-
ity is O( g log n
n ) = o(1) for g = o(n/ log n). An honest
node that is not non-escaping is called an escaping node .
By Lemma 4, we have at most ǫn escaping nodes; such
nodes are usually near the attack edges. Notice that given
the topology of the honest region and the location of the
attack edges, we can fully determine the probability of the
tail of a length-w random walk starting from a given nodeV
being a uniform tail. In turn, this means whether a node V
is escaping is not affected by the adversary. In the remain-
der of this paper, unless speciﬁcally mentioned, when we
say “honest node/veriﬁer/suspect”, we mean “non-escaping
(honest) node/veriﬁer/suspect”. We will not, however, ig-
nore escaping nodes in the arguments since they may poten-
tially disrupt the guarantees for non-escaping nodes.
For each veriﬁer V , deﬁne its tail set as:
{(i, e) | e is V ’s tail in the ith v-instance}. V ’s uniform
tail set U(V ) is deﬁned as:
U(V ) = {(i, e) | e is V ’s tail in the ith v-instance and
e is a uniform tail}
Notice that the distribution of U(V ) is not affected by the
adversary’s strategy. We similarly deﬁne the tail set and
uniform tail set for every suspect S. We deﬁne the tainted
tail set ∇ as: ∇ = ∪r
i=1∇i, where
∇i = {(i, e) | e is a tainted tail in the ith s-instance}
Again, the deﬁnition of ∇ is not affected by the behavior
of the adversary, as all these tails are in the honest region.
Further notice that in a given s-instance for each attack edge,
we can have at most w tainted tails. Thus |∇i| ≤ g × w and
|∇| ≤ rgw = O(rg log n).
With slight abuse of notation, we say that a tail set in-
tersects with a tail e as long as the tail set contains an ele-
ment (i, e) for some i. The number of intersections with e
is deﬁned to be the number of elements of the form (i, e).
We double count e in different instances because for every
element (i, e), an arbitrary public key can be registered un-
der the name of e in the ith s-instance. For two tail sets T1
and T2, we deﬁne the number of intersectionsbetween them
as: ∑
(j,e)∈T2 (# intersections between e and T1). For ex-
ample, {(1, e1), (2, e1)} and {(2, e1), (3, e1)} have 4 inter-
sections. T1 and T2 intersect if and only if the number of
intersection between them is larger than 0.
T ail intersection between the veriﬁer and honest sus-
pects. The intersection condition requires that for a veri-
ﬁer V to accept a suspect S, V ’s tail set and S’s tail set
must intersect with S being registered at some intersecting
tail. We claim that for any given constant δ > 0, a ver-
iﬁer V and an honest suspect S will satisfy the intersec-
tion condition with probability 1 − δ when r = r0
√m,
with r0 being an appropriately chosen constant. This is
true because with 1 − δ
2 probability, they will both have
(1 − O( g log n
n )) ·r = (1 − o(1))r > 0.5r uniform tails
when g = o(n/ log n). A straight-forward application of
the Birthday Paradox will then complete the argument. No-
tice that we are not able to make arguments on the distri-
bution of non-uniform tails and escaping tails, but uniform
tails by themselves are sufﬁcient for intersection to happe n.
T ail intersection between the veriﬁer and sybil suspects.
By deﬁnition, all uniform tails of V are in the honest region.
From the secure random route property, the tainted tail set∇
contains all tails that the sybil nodes can possibly have in the
honest region. We would like to bound the number of sybil
nodes with (tainted) tails intersecting withV ’s uniform tails.
V ’s non-uniform tails and escaping tails will be taken care
of later by the balance condition.
Each tail in ∇ allows the adversary to potentially regis-
ter a public key for some sybil node. The adversary has
complete freedom on how to “allocate” these tails. For ex-
ample, in one extreme, it may create |∇| sybil nodes each
with one tainted tail. In such a case, most likely not all these
|∇| sybil nodes will be accepted because each has only one
tainted tail. In the other extreme, it can create one sybil
node and register its public key with all tails in ∇.
10

We need to understand what is the adversary’s optimal
strategy for such an allocation. Interestingly, we can prov e
that regardless of what U(V ) is, to maximize the number of
sybil nodes with tails intersecting with U(V ), the adversary
should always create |∇| sybil nodes and allocate one tail
for each sybil node. To understand why, let random variable
X be the number of intersections between∇ and U(V ). It is
obviously impossible for more than X sybil nodes to have
tails intersecting with U(V ). On the other hand, with the
previous strategy, the adversary can always create X sybil
nodes with tails intersecting with U(V ).
With this optimal strategy (of the adversary), we know
that it sufﬁces to focus on the probabilistic property of X.
A tricky part in reasoning about X is that those tails in ∇
are neither uniformly random nor independent. For exam-
ple, they are more likely to concentrate in the region near
the attack edges. However, each tail in U(V ) is still uni-
formly random. From linearity of expectation, we know
that each tail in U(V ) has on expectation |∇|
2m = O( rg log n
m )
intersections with ∇. This in turn means:
E[X] ≤ r ·O( rg log n
m ) = O(g log n), for any r = O(√m)
A Markov inequality [26] can then show that for any given
constant δ > 0, with probability at least 1 − δ, X is
O(g log n).
6.2. Balance condition
In this section, for any veriﬁer V , we treat all of its
non-uniform tails as escaping tails. Obviously, this only
increases the adversary’s power and makes our arguments
pessimistic. The goal of the balance condition is to bound
the number of sybil nodes accepted by V ’s escaping tails,
without signiﬁcantly hurting honest suspects (who are sub-
ject to the same balance condition). While the condition is
simple, rigorously reasoning about it turns out to be quite
tricky due to the external correlation among random routes
and also adversarial disruption that may intentionally cause
load imbalance. This introduces challenges particularly f or
proving why most honest suspects will satisfy the balance
condition despite all these disruptions.
Effects on sybil suspects. We ﬁrst study how the bar of
b = h ·max(log r, a) (Steps 5–7 in Figure 6) successfully
bounds the number of sybil nodes accepted byV ’s escaping
tails. The argument is complicated by the fact that when
a > log r, the bar b is a ﬂoating one. Namely, as more
suspects are accepted, a and thus b will increase, allowing
further suspects to be accepted. If all n honest suspects are
accepted, the bar may rise to Θ( n
r ). We use such a ﬂoating
bar because n is unknown (otherwise we could directly set
the bar to be Θ( n
r )).
But on the other hand, it may also appear that as the es-
caping tails accept sybil nodes, the rising bar will allow fur-
ther sybil nodes to be accepted. The key observation here
is that, as shown by the previous section, the number of
sybil nodes accepted by V ’s uniform tails is always prop-
erly bounded (by the intersection condition). The fraction
of escaping tails is o(1) < 1
h. Thus, if the load on all these
escaping tails increases by some value x while the load on
all uniform tails remain unchanged, the bar will only rise
o(1) ·x. Following such argument, we will see that the
amount by which the bar rises each time is upper bounded
by a geometric sequence with a ratio of o(1). The sum of
this geometric sequence obviously converges, and in fact
is dominated by the very ﬁrst term in the sequence. This
prevents undesirable cascading/unbounded rising of the bar.
Our technical report [42] formally proves that under any
constant h, V ’s escaping tails will accept only O(g log n)
sybil nodes despite the ﬂoating bar.
Effects on honest suspects. Next, we brieﬂy sketch our
proof [42] that most non-escaping honest suspects will sat-
isfy the balance condition for a sufﬁciently large constant
h. We ﬁrst consider the load on V ’s uniform tails. By def-
inition, these tails are in the honest region. The load of a
uniform tail may increase when it intersects with:
1. Uniform tails of non-escaping honest suspects.
2. Non-uniform tails of non-escaping honest suspects.
For g = o(n/ log n), a tail of a non-escaping node is
non-uniform with O( g log n
n ) = o(1) probability. Thus,
with r s-instances and at most n non-escaping nodes,
the expected number of such tails is o(rn). By ap-
plying a Markov’s inequality, we obtain that there are
o(rn) such tails with probability at least 1 − δ for any
given constant δ > 0.
3. Uniform or non-uniform tails of escaping honest
suspects. By Lemma 4, there are at most ǫrn such
tails, where ǫ is a constant that can be made close to 0.
4. T ainted tails. As explained in Section 6.1, there are
O(rg log n) = o(rn) such tails for g = o(n/ log n).
Considering ﬁrst the load imposed by only the ﬁrst type
of tails in this list, we are able to prove [42] that with 1 − δ
probability, most non-escaping suspects will satisfy boththe
intersection condition and the balance condition and thus
will be accepted. This proof is fairly tricky/involved due t o
the external correlation among random routes. Harder still
is taking into account the load imposed by the last 3 types of
tails. In particular, the adversary has many different stra te-
gies for when to increase the load of which of V ’s tail, and
ﬁnding the optimal strategy of the adversary is challenging .
Fortunately, as argued above, the total number of tails from
suspects in the last 3 tail types is ǫ′rn for some small ǫ′.
We can apply a similar argument as in Section 6.1 to show
11

that with probability of 1 − δ, the number of intersections
between these ǫ′rn tails and U(V ) is at most ǫ′′n for some
small ǫ′′. This means that the total load imposed in the last
3 tail types is at most ǫ′′n. Finally, we prove that after dou-
bling the constant h obtained earlier, even if the adversary
completely controls where and when to impose theǫ′′n load,
the adversary can cause only ǫ′′n honest suspects to be re-
jected. Because ǫ′′ can be made small and close to 0, this
ensures that most non-escaping honest suspects will remain
accepted.
7. Estimating the number of routes needed
We have shown that in SybilLimit, a veriﬁer V will ac-
cept (1 − ǫ)n honest suspects with probability 1 − δ if
r = r0
√m. The constant r0 can be directly calculated
from the Birthday Paradox and the desired end probabilistic
guarantees. On the other hand, m is unknown to individual
nodes.3 Adapting the sampling approach from SybilGuard
(as reviewed in Section 4) is not possible, because that ap-
proach is fundamentally limited to g = o(√n/ log n).
Benchmarking technique. SybilLimit uses a novel and
perhaps counter-intuitive benchmarking technique to ad-
dress the previous problem, by mixing the real suspects with
some random benchmark nodes that are already known to
be mostly honest. Every veriﬁer V maintains two sets of
suspects, the benchmark set K and the test set T . The
benchmark set K is constructed by repeatedly performing
random routes of length w and then adding the ending node
(called the benchmark node) to K. Let K + and K − be the
set of honest and sybil suspects in K, respectively. Sybil-
Limit does not know which nodes in K belong to K +. But
a key property here is that because the escaping probability
of such random routes is o(1), even without invoking Sybil-
Limit, we are assured that |K −|/|K| = o(1). The test set T
contains the real suspects that V wants to verify, which may
or may not happen to belong to K. We similarly deﬁne T +
and T −. Our technique will hinge upon the adversary not
knowing K + or T + (see later for how to ensure this), even
though it may know K + ∪ T + and K − ∪ T −.
To estimate r, a veriﬁer V starts from r = 1 and then
repeatedly doubles r. For every r value, V veriﬁes all sus-
pects in K and T . It stops doubling r when most of the
nodes in K (e.g., 95%) are accepted, and then makes a ﬁnal
determination for each suspect in T .
No over-estimation. Once r reaches r0
√m, most of the
suspects in K + will indeed be accepted, regardless of the
behavior of the adversary. Further, because |K +|/|K| =
3SybilLimit also requires that the random route length w be the mix-
ing time of the graph, which is also unknown. However, as in Sy bil-
Guard [43], SybilLimit assumes that the nodes know a rough upper bound
on the graph’s mixing time. Such an assumption is reasonable because the
mixing time should be O(log n), which is rather insensitive to n.
1 − o(1), having an r of r0
√m will enable us to reach the
threshold (e.g., 95%) and stop doubling r further. Thus, V
will never over-estimate r (within a factor of 2).
Under-estimation will not compromise SybilLimit’s
guarantees. It is possible for the adversary to cause an
under-estimation of r by introducing artiﬁcial intersections
between the escaping tails of V and the escaping tails of
suspects in K +. This may cause the threshold to be reached
before r reaches r0
√m.
What if SybilLimit operates under an r < r 0
√m? Inter-
estingly, SybilLimit can bound the number of sybil nodes
accepted within O(log n) per attack edge not only when
r = r0
√m, but also forr < r 0
√m (see [42] for proofs). To
obtain some intuition, ﬁrst notice that the number of sybil
nodes with tails intersecting with V ’s uniform tails (Sec-
tion 6.1) can only decrease when r is smaller. Second, the
arguments regarding the number of sybil nodes accepted
by V ’s escaping tails and non-uniform tails (Section 6.2)
hinges only upon the fraction of those tails, and not the
value of r.
Using r < r 0
√m, however, will decrease the probabil-
ity of tail intersection between the veriﬁer and an honest
suspect. Here, we leverage a second important property of
the benchmark set. Namely, conditioned upon the random
routes for picking benchmark nodes being non-escaping,
the adversary will not know which nodes are picked as
benchmark nodes. (If the adversary may eavesdrop mes-
sages, we can readily encrypt messages using edge keys.)
As a result, given an honest suspect, the adversary cannot
tell whether it belongs to K + or T +. If most (e.g., 95%) of
the suspects in K are accepted, then most suspects in K +
must be accepted as well, since |K +|/|K| = 1 − o(1). If
most suspects in K + are accepted under r < r 0
√m, the
adversary must have intentionally caused intersection be-
tween V and the suspects in K +. Because the adversary
cannot tell whether an honest suspect belongs toK + or T +,
it cannot introduce intersections only for suspects in K +;
it must introduce intersections for suspects in T + as well.
Thus, most suspects in T + will be accepted as well under
the given r.
Further discussions. The benchmarking technique may ap-
pear counter-intuitive in two aspects. First, if SybilLimi t
uses an under-estimated r, it will be the adversary that helps
it to accept most of the honest nodes. While this is true,
SybilLimit is still needed to bound the number of sybil
nodes accepted and also to prevent r from growing beyond
r0
√m. Second, the benchmark set K is itself a set with
o(1) fraction of sybil nodes. Thus, it may appear that an
application can just as well use the nodes in K directly, and
avoid the full SybilLimit protocol. However, the set K is
constructed randomly and may not contain some speciﬁc
suspects that V wants to verify.
For a more rigorous understanding of the benchmarking
12

1. V starts with two sets of suspects, K and T ;
2. Let set A = ∅ and r = 1;
3. While ( |A ∩ K|/|K| < 95%) {
4. For every suspect S ∈ ((K ∪ T ) \ A), verify S
using the protocol in Figure 6;
5. If S is accepted, A = A ∪ {S};
6. Double r;
}
7. V accepts all suspects in A ∩ T , and
rejects all suspects in T \ A;
Figure 8. Pseudo-code for the benchmarking
technique.
technique, we can view the process as a sampling algorithm
for estimating the fraction of the suspects accepted in the set
T + ∪ K +. We take |K +| samples from the set and observe
that fraction f of the samples are accepted. Classic estima-
tion theory [4] tells us that if |K +| = Θ( 1
ǫ2 log 1
δ ), then the
fraction of the accepted suspects in T + is within f ± ǫ with
probability of at least 1 − δ. It is important to see that the
needed size of K + (and thus K) is independent of the size
of T . Simple simulation experiments show that |K| = 30
gives us an average ǫ of 0.0322.
Care must be taken when implementing the benchmark-
ing technique. The technique hinges on the fact that the
adversary cannot distinguish suspects in K + from suspects
in T +. A naive implementation would gradually increase r
and invoke the veriﬁcation protocol from Figure 6 multiple
times (under different r) for each suspect. This will leak
(probabilistic) information to the adversary. Namely, if t he
adversary notices that V still increases r even after a certain
honest suspect S is accepted, then the conditional probabil-
ity that S belongs to T + increases. Under the increased r,
the adversary may then favor other suspects inK +∪T + and
cause S to be rejected. This will then violate the assumption
that K + is a uniform sample of K + ∪ T +.
To ensure that K + is a uniform sample of K + ∪ T +,
we automatically consider a suspect S that is accepted un-
der a certain r to be accepted under larger r values, with-
out re-verifying this. Figure 8 presents the pseudo-code,
which maintains a set A including all suspects accepted so
far. Now imagine that the adversary notices that V still in-
creases r despite those suspects in A being accepted. This
tells the adversary that the suspects in A are less likely to
belong to K + than those suspects not in A. However, the
adversary can no longer reverse the determinations already
made for those suspects in A. The adversary can still inﬂu-
ence future determinations on those suspects not in A. But
all these suspects have the same probability of being inK +.
So it does not help the adversary to favor some over others.
8. Lower bound
SybilLimit bounds the number of sybil nodes accepted
within O(log n) per attack edge. A natural question is
whether we can further improve the guarantees. For exam-
ple, it may appear that SybilLimit does not currently have
any mechanism to limit the routing behavior of sybil nodes.
One could imagine requiring nodes to commit (cryptograph-
ically) to their routing tables, so that sybil nodes could no t
perform random routes in an inconsistent fashion. We will
show, however, that such techniques or similar techniques
can provide at most a log n factor of improvement, because
the total number of sybil nodes accepted is lower bounded
by Ω(1) per attack edge.
SybilLimit entirely relies on the observation that if the
adversary creates too many sybil nodes, then the resulting
social network will no longer have O(log n) mixing time.
Our technical report [42] proves that for any given constant
c, any g ∈ [1, n], and any graph G with n honest nodes and
O(log n) mixing time, it is always possible for the adversary
to introduce c ·g sybil nodes via g attack edges so that the
augmented graph’s mixing time is O(log n′) where n′ =
n + c ·g. There are actually many ways to create such an
augmented graph. One way (as in our proof) is to pick g
nodes arbitrarily from G and attach to each of them (using
a single attack edge) a group of c sybil nodes. It does not
matter how the c sybil nodes in a group are connected with
each other, as long as they are connected. Now because the
augmented graph has the same mixing time (i.e.,O(log n′))
as a “normal” social network with n′ nodes, as long as the
protocol solely relies on mixing time, we cannot distinguish
these sybil nodes from honest nodes. In other words, all
protocols based on mixing time will end up accepting Ω(1)
sybil nodes per attack edge.
9. Experiments with online social networks
Goal of experiments. We have proved that SybilLimit can
bound the number of sybil nodes accepted within O(log n)
per attack edge, which improved upon SybilGuard’s guar-
antee of O(√n log n). However, these provable guarantees
of SybilLimit (and SybilGuard as well) critically rely on the
assumption that social networks have small (i.e., O(log n))
mixing time. Our experiments thus mainly serve to vali-
date such an assumption, based on real-world social net-
works. Such validation has a more general implication be-
yond SybilLimit—these results will tell us whether the ap-
proach of leveraging social networks to combat sybil attacks
is valid. A second goal of our experiments is to gain bet-
ter understanding of the hidden constant in SybilLimit’s
O(log n) guarantee. Finally, we will also provide some
example numerical comparisons between SybilGuard and
13

SybilLimit. However, it is not our goal to perform a de-
tailed experimental comparison, because SybilLimit’s im-
provement over SybilGuard is already rigorously proved.
Social network data sets. We use three crawled online so-
cial network data sets in our experiments: Friendster, Live-
Journal, and DBLP (Table 3). They are crawls of http://
www.friendster.com, http://www.livejournal.
com, and http://dblp.uni-trier.de, respectively.
The DBLP data set is publicly available, but the other two
are not. We also experiment with Kleinberg’s synthetic so-
cial network [17], which we used [43] to evaluate Sybil-
Guard.
Strictly speaking, DBLP is a bibliography database and
not a social network. To derive the “social network” from
DBLP, we consider two people having an edge between
them if they have ever co-authored a paper. Because of
the closely clustered co-authoring relationships among re -
searchers, we expect such a social network to be more
slowly mixing than standard social networks. Thus, we use
DBLP as a bound on the worst-case scenario. Obviously,
DBLP is guaranteed to be free of sybil nodes. Although it
is theoretically possible for Friendster and LiveJournal to be
polluted with sybil nodes already, we expect such pollution
to be limited because of the lack of motivation to launch
large-scale sybil attacks in Friendster and LiveJournal.
Preprocessing of data sets. We preprocessFriendster, Live-
Journal, and DBLP in the following way before using them.
(Kleinberg does not need preprocessing.) First, the original
Friendster and LiveJournal data sets have directed edges be-
tween users instead of undirected edges, while SybilLimit
operates on an undirected graph. During the crawl to ob-
tain Friendster and LiveJournal, a directed edge A → B is
added to the graph if A lists B as its friend. For LiveJour-
nal, we consider that there is an undirected edge between
A and B if and only if there are two directed edges A→B
and B → A in the original data. For Friendster, we ﬁnd
on www.friendster.com that if A lists B as A’s friend,
then B must also lists A as B’s friend. In other words, the
friendship relation is always mutual. This does not necessar-
ily mean that the original Friendster data set must contain
both A → B and B → A, since it is possible that the crawl
stops after crawling A’s friend list but before crawling B’s
friend list. Thus for Friendster, if there is a directed edge
A → B, or B → A, or both, we consider that there is an
undirected edge between A and B.
The second step of our preprocessing limits the degree
of all nodes in the graph to be 100 or fewer. SybilLimit in-
herits the idea from SybilGuard that an honest node should
not have an excessive number of neighbors. This restriction
helps bound the number of additional attack edges the ad-
versary gets when an honest node is compromised. We pick
the limit 100 because this appears to be reasonable in the
real world: a typical human being is likely to have strong
social relationships with fewer than 100 people. We limit
the degree of the nodes by removing random edges from a
node if its degree is above 100.
Next we remove all nodes in the graph with degree
smaller than 5. This decision reﬂects our expectation that
a new user of SybilLimit will establish a minimum num-
ber of edges (e.g., 5) with existing users. This requirement
ensures that the new user has at least some reasonable con-
nectivity to the social network. Before the user establishe s
these edges, the user can still use other nodes as proxies to
verify suspects, except that it cannot be veriﬁed by other
nodes. The ﬁnal preprocessing step is to select the largest
connected component in the resulting graph. This largest
connected component is what we use in our experiments.
Table 3 presents the basic statistics of the four social net-
works after preprocessing (if needed).
Experimental methodology. We choose to use simulation
in all of our experiments for two important reasons. First,
we are mainly concerned with how the graph properties of
these real-world social networks affect SybilLimit’s end se-
curity guarantees. Performance is not the focus of our eval-
uation; as explained earlier, it is unlikely for SybilLimit to
incur excessive performance overheads. Second, simulation
allows us to study large (i.e., million-node) social networks.
All results are obtained after the secure random route proto-
col in SybilLimit has stabilized.
Exactly as in [43], we place the g attack edges in the
social networks in two different ways. In rand, we re-
peatedly pick uniformly random nodes in the graph and
mark them. In cluster, we start from a uniformly ran-
dom node and then perform a breadth-ﬁrst search from that
node. All nodes encountered are marked. In both rand
and cluster, those edges between marked nodes and un-
marked nodes are considered attack edges. We keep mark-
ing nodes until the total number of attack edges reaches our
target g. We ﬁnd that the results using cluster placement
are usually slightly better than using rand, under the same
g. Thus, all results presented below are the pessimistic re-
sults using rand.
We do not explicitly simulate the sybil nodes and the
edges among them. The reason is that in order to do so,
one needs to use the optimal strategy of the adversary to
maximize the effectiveness of the attack. This optimal strat-
egy may involve inﬁnite number of sybil nodes. Thus in-
stead, we design the experiments such that the experiments
are guaranteed to produce pessimistic results (i.e., no bet -
ter than the results under the optimal strategy). For exam-
ple, our experiments assume that the adversary always “sat-
urates” the balance condition (i.e., equivalent to creating in-
ﬁnite number of sybil nodes whose tails intersect with those
escaping tails of the veriﬁer).
Results: Mixing time of real-world social networks. In
SybilLimit, the only parameter affected by mixing time is
14

Data set Friendster LiveJournal DBLP Kleinberg
Data set source [34] [39] [10] [17]
Date crawled Nov-Dec 2005 May 2005 April 2006 not applicable
# nodes 932,512 900,822 106,002 1,000,000
# undirected edges 7,835,974 8,737,636 625,932 10,935,294
w used in SybilLimit 10 10 15 10
r used in SybilLimit 8,000 12,000 3,000 10,000
Table 3. Social network data sets.
 0
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 1.2
 1.4
 0  20  40  60  80  100
# of sybil nodes accepted/
number of honest nodes
# of attack edges in thousands
by non-escaping tails
by escaping tails
total
Figure 9. Friendster
 0
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 1.2
 1.4
 0  20  40  60  80  100
# of sybil nodes accepted/
number of honest nodes
# of attack edges in thousands
by non-escaping tails
by escaping tails
total
Figure 10. LiveJournal
 0
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 1.2
 1.4
 0  1  2  3  4  5
# of sybil nodes accepted/
number of honest nodes
# of attack edges in thousands
by non-escaping tails
by escaping tails
total
Figure 11. DBLP
 0
 0.2
 0.4
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 1.2
 1.4
 0  20  40  60  80  100
# of sybil nodes accepted/
number of honest nodes
# of attack edges in thousands
by non-escaping tails
by escaping tails
total
Figure 12. Kleinberg
the length of the random routes ( w). Namely, w should be
at least as large as the mixing time. It is not possible to
directly show that our data sets have O(log n) mixing time,
since O(log n) is asymptotic behavior. It is not necessary to
do so either, since all we need to conﬁrm is that rather small
w values are already sufﬁcient for SybilLimit to work well.
For Friendster and LiveJournal, we use w = 10 (see Ta-
ble 3). Random routes do not seem to reach good enough
mixing for SybilLimit with w values much smaller than 10
(e.g., 5) in these two social networks. We use w = 15
for DBLP. As expected, DBLP has a worse mixing property
than the other social networks. Our results will show that
these small w values are already sufﬁcient to enable good
enough mixing in our large-scale social networks (with 105
to around 106 nodes) for SybilLimit to work well.
It is worth noting that social networks are well-known
to have groups or communities where intra-group edges are
much denser than inter-group edges [3, 15, 24, 38]. In fact,
there are explicitly-deﬁned communities in LiveJournal for
users to join, while people in DBLP by deﬁnition form re-
search communities. Our results thus show that somewhat
counter-intuitively and despite such groups, the sparse inter-
group edges in these real-world social networks are sufﬁ-
cient to provide good mixing properties.
Results: SybilLimit’s end guarantees. We use the w val-
ues from Table 3 to simulate SybilLimit and determine the
number of sybil nodes accepted. Our simulator does not im-
plement the estimation process for r. Rather, we directly
use the r values from Table 3, which are obtained based
on the value of m and the Birthday Paradox. We use 4 for
the universal constant h in all our experiments. We have
observed (results not included) that h = 2.5 is already sufﬁ-
cient in most cases, while excessively large h (e.g., 10) can
unnecessarily weaken the guarantees (though not asymptot-
ically). We always simulate the adversary’s optimal strategy
(i.e., worst-case for SybilLimit).
Figures 9 to 12 present the number of sybil nodes ac-
cepted by a randomly chosen veriﬁer V (as a fraction of the
number of honest nodes n), in each social network. We
present a fraction to allow comparison across social net-
works with different n. We have repeated the experiments
from a number of veriﬁers, yielding similar results. For all
cases, we experiment with g up to the point where the num-
ber of sybil nodes accepted reaches n. The ﬁgures further
break down the sybil nodes accepted into those accepted by
V ’s non-escaping tails versus those accepted by V ’s escap-
ing tails. The ﬁrst component is bounded by the intersection
condition while the second is bounded by the balance con-
dition. In all ﬁgures, the number of sybil nodes accepted
grows roughly linearly with g. The asymptotic guarantee
of SybilLimit is O(log n) sybil nodes accepted per attack
edge. Figures 9 to 12 show that this O(log n) asymptotic
term translates to around between 10 (in Friendster, Live-
Journal, and Kleinberg) to 20 (in DBLP). As a concrete nu-
merical comparison with SybilGuard, SybilGuard [43] uses
random routes of length l = 1906 in the million-node Klein-
berg graph. Because SybilGuard accepts l sybil nodes per
attack edge, this translates to 1906 sybil nodes accepted per
15

attack edge for Kleinberg. Thus numerically in Kleinberg,
SybilLimit reduces the number of sybil nodes accepted by
nearly 200-fold over SybilGuard.
One can also view Figures 9 to 12 from another perspec-
tive. The three data sets Friendster, LiveJournal, and Klein-
berg all have roughly one million nodes. Therefore, in or-
der for the number of sybil nodes accepted to reach n, the
number of attack edges needs to be around 100,000. Put
it another way, the adversary needs to establish 100,000
social trust relationships with honest users in the system.
As a quick comparison under Kleinberg, SybilGuard will
accept n sybil nodes once g reaches around 500 (since
l = 1906). Some simple experiments further show that with
g ≥ 15, 000, the escaping probability of the random routes
in SybilGuard will be above 0.5 and SybilGuard can no
longer provide any guarantees at all. Finally,DBLP is much
smaller (with 100,000 nodes) and because of the slightly
larger w needed for DBLP, the number of sybil nodes ac-
cepted will reach n roughly when g is 5,000.
Finally, we have also performed experiments to inves-
tigate SybilLimit’s guarantees on much smaller social net-
works with only 100 nodes. To do so, we extract 100-node
subgraphs from our social network data sets. As a concise
summary, we observe that the number of sybil nodes ac-
cepted per attack edge is still around 10 to 20.
10. Conclusion
This paper presented SybilLimit, a near-optimal defense
against sybil attacks using social networks. Compared
to our previous SybilGuard protocol [43] that accepted
O(√n log n) sybil nodes per attack edge, SybilLimit ac-
cepts only O(log n) sybil nodes per attack edge. Fur-
thermore, SybilLimit provides this guarantee even when
the number of attack edges grows to o(n/ log n). Sybil-
Limit’s improvement derives from the combination of multi-
ple novel techniques: i) leveraging multiple independent in-
stances of the random route protocol to perform many short
random routes, ii) exploiting intersections on edges instead
of nodes, iii) using the novel balance condition to deal with
escaping tails of the veriﬁer, and iv) using the novel bench-
marking technique to safely estimate r. Finally, our results
on real-world social networks conﬁrmed their fast mixing
property, and thus validated the fundamental assumption be-
hind SybilLimit’s (and SybilGuard’s) approach. As future
work, we intend to implement SybilLimit within the context
of some real-world applications and demonstrate its utility.
Acknowledgments
We thank Jelle Roozenburg for allowing us to use his
Friendster data set and Rita Wouhaybi for allowing us to use
her LiveJournal data set. We thank Chris Lesniewski-Laas
and the anonymous reviewers for many helpful comments
on the paper. This work is partly supported by NUS grants
R-252-050-284-101 and R-252-050-284-133.
References
[1] I. Abraham and D. Malkhi. Probabilistic quorums for dy-
namic systems. In DISC, 2003.
[2] T. Anderson. SIGCOMM’06 public review on ‘Sybil-
Guard: Defending against sybil attacks via social net-
works’. http://www.sigcomm.org/sigcomm2006/
discussion/, 2006.
[3] L. Backstrom, D. Huttenlocher, J. Kleinberg, and X. Lan.
Group formation in large social networks: Membership,
growth, and evolution. In ACM KDD, 2006.
[4] Z. Bar-Yossef, R. Kumar, and D. Sivakumar. Sampling al-
gorithms: Lower bounds and applications. In ACM STOC,
2001.
[5] R. Bazzi and G. Konjevod. On the establishment of distinc t
identities in overlay networks. In ACM PODC, 2005.
[6] S. Boyd, A. Ghosh, B. Prabhakar, and D. Shah. Gossip al-
gorithms: Design, analysis and applications. In IEEE INFO-
COM, 2005.
[7] M. Castro, P. Druschel, A. Ganesh, A. Rowstron, and D. S.
Wallach. Secure routing for structured peer-to-peer overl ay
networks. In USENIX OSDI, 2002.
[8] A. Cheng and E. Friedman. Sybilproof reputation mecha-
nisms. In ACM P2PEcon, 2005.
[9] G. Danezis, C. Lesniewski-Laas, M. F. Kaashoek, and R. An-
derson. Sybil-resistant DHT routing. In ESORICS, 2005.
Springer-Verlag LNCS 3679.
[10] http://kdl.cs.umass.edu/data/dblp/
dblp-info.html .
[11] J. Douceur. The Sybil attack. In IPTPS, 2002.
[12] E-Mule. http://www.emule-project.net .
[13] M. Feldman, K. Lai, I. Stoica, and J. Chuang. Robust in-
centive techniques for peer-to-peer networks. In ACM Elec-
tronic Commerce, 2004.
[14] A. Flaxman. Expansion and lack thereof in randomly
perturbed graphs. Technical report, Microsoft Research,
2006. ftp://ftp.research.microsoft.com/pub/
tr/TR-2006-118.pdf .
[15] M. Girvan and M. E. J. Newman. Community structure in so-
cial and biological networks. Proc. of the National Academy
of Sciences, 99(12), 2002.
[16] V . Guruswami. Rapidly mixing markov chains: A
comparison of techniques. Technical report, MIT Lab-
oratory for Computer Science, May 2000. Avail-
able at http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/
venkat/pubs/papers/markov-survey.ps .
[17] J. Kleinberg. The small-world phenomenon: An algorith m
perspective. In ACM STOC, 2000.
[18] L. Lamport, R. Shostak, and M. Pease. The byzantine gen-
erals problem. ACM TOPLAS, 4(3), 1982.
[19] Q. Lian, Z. Zhang, M. Yang, B. Y . Zhao, Y . Dai, and X. Li.
An empirical study of collusion behavior in the Maze P2P
ﬁle-sharing system. In IEEE ICDCS, 2007.
[20] T. Lindvall. Lectures on the Coupling Method. Dover Publi-
cations, 2002.
16

[21] P. Maniatis, M. Roussopoulos, T. J. Giuli, D. S. H. Rosen -
thal, and M. Baker. The LOCKSS peer-to-peer digital preser-
vation system. ACM TOCS, 23(1), 2005.
[22] N. B. Margolin and B. N. Levine. Quantifying and discour -
aging sybil attacks. Technical report, U. Mass. Amherst,
Computer Science, 2005.
[23] N. B. Margolin and B. N. Levine. Informant: Detecting
sybils using incentives. In Financial Cryptography, 2007.
[24] A. Mislove, M. Marcon, K. P. Gummadi, P. Druschel, and
B. Bhattacharjee. Measurement and analysis of online social
networks. In ACM/USENIX IMC, 2007.
[25] A. Mislove, A. Post, K. Gummadi, and P. Druschel. Os-
tra: Leveraging trust to thwart unwanted communication. In
USENIX NSDI, 2008.
[26] M. Mitzenmacher and E. Upfal. Probability and Computing.
Cambridge University Press, 2005.
[27] R. Morselli, B. Bhattacharjee, A. Srinivasan, and M. Ma rsh.
Efﬁcient lookup on unstructured topologies. In ACM PODC,
2005.
[28] J. Newsome, E. Shi, D. Song, and A. Perrig. The Sybil attack
in sensor networks: Analysis & defenses. In ACM/IEEE
IPSN, 2004.
[29] T. S. E. Ng and H. Zhang. Predicting internet network dis -
tance with coordinates-based approaches. In IEEE INFO-
COM, 2002.
[30] B. Parno, A. Perrig, and V . Gligor. Distributed detecti on of
node replication attacks in sensor networks. In IEEE S & P,
2005.
[31] V . Prakash. Razor. http://razor.sourceforge.net.
[32] A. Ramachandran and N. Feamster. Understanding the
network-level behavior of spammers. In ACM SIGCOMM,
2006.
[33] M. Richardson, R. Agrawal, and P. Domingos. Trust man-
agement for the semantic web. In SWSA ISWC, 2003.
[34] J. Roozenburg. A literature survey on bloom ﬁlters. Unp ub-
lished Research Assignment, Delft Univ. of Technology, NL,
2005.
[35] M. Steiner, T. En-Najjary, and E. W. Biersack. Exploiti ng
KAD: Possible uses and misuses. ACM SIGCOMM CCR ,
37(5), 2007.
[36] L. von Ahn, M. Blum, N. J. Hopper, and J. Langford.
CAPTCHA: Telling humans and computers apart. In IACR
Eurocrypt, 2003.
[37] K. Walsh and E. G. Sirer. Experience with an object reput a-
tion system for peer-to-peer ﬁlesharing. In USENIX NSDI,
2006.
[38] S. Wasserman and K. Faust. Social Network Analysis. Cam-
bridge University Press, Cambridge, 1994.
[39] R. H. Wouhaybi. Trends and behavior in online social com -
munities. Unpublished Research, Intel Corporation, Hills -
boro, OR, USA, 2007.
[40] M. Yang, Z. Zhang, X. Li, and Y . Dai. An empirical study
of free-riding behavior in the Maze P2P ﬁle-sharing system.
In IPTPS, 2005.
[41] H. Yu, P. B. Gibbons, and M. Kaminsky. Brief announce-
ment: Toward an optimal social network defense against
sybil attacks. In ACM PODC, 2007.
[42] H. Yu, P. B. Gibbons, M. Kaminsky, and F. Xiao. Sybil-
limit: A near-optimal social network defense against sybil
attacks. Technical Report TRA2/08, National Univ. of Sin-
gapore, School of Computing, Mar. 2008. http://www.
comp.nus.edu.sg/ ∼yuhf/sybillimit-tr.pdf .
[43] H. Yu, M. Kaminsky, P. B. Gibbons, and A. Flaxman. Sybil-
Guard: Defending against sybil attacks via social networks .
In ACM SIGCOMM, 2006.
17

A. Proofs
The proofs in this appendix establish the asymptotic guaran tees of SybilLimit. For all constants used or derived in the
proofs, we aim for simplicity instead of pursuing the optima l. All results are for n sufﬁciently large, and assuming that the
honest region of the social network has O(log n) mixing time.
A.1. Preliminaries: Classifying Tails and Nodes
Lemma 5 Consider any given constant ǫ > 0. We can always ﬁnd a universal constant w0 > 0, such that there exists a set
H of at least (1 − ǫ)n honest nodes (called non-escaping nodes) where if we perform a length-w random walk starting from
any non-escaping node with w = w0 log n, then
• The tail is non-escaping with probability of at least 1 − O( g log n
n ).
• The tail is a uniformly random directed edge in the honest reg ion of the social network with probability of at least
1 − O( g log n
n ).
Proof: We let G denote the entire social network with all honest nodes and sy bil nodes. The sybil nodes in G may deviate
from the protocol in arbitrary way. We deﬁne G′ to be the social network with only honest nodes and edges betw een honest
nodes. G′ is not known by SybilLimit. According to our system model (Section 3), G′ has n nodes and m undirected edges.
We will later draw connections between random walks in G to random walks in G′.
To prove the lemma, it sufﬁces to show that we can ﬁnd two unive rsal constants c1 > 0 and c2 > 0 such that the
probability of the tail being non-escaping is at least 1 − c1
g log n
n and the probability of the tail being uniformly random is at
least 1 − c2
g log n
n . According to our assumption, G′ is fast mixing with O(log n) mixing time. This means that we can ﬁnd
a universal constant w0 such that random walks of length w = w0 log n in G′ is sufﬁcient to achieve a variation distance of
1
n or lower. We let c1 = w0/ǫ1 and c2 = 2c1 + 1.
We ﬁrst intend to ﬁnd a set of (1 − ǫ1)n nodes such that starting from any of them, a length- w random walk in G is
non-escaping with probability of at least 1 − gw
ǫ1n. Let pi be the probability of a length-w random walk being escaping if we
start the random walk from honest node i, for 1 ≤ i ≤ n. It has been proved [43] that p1 + p2 + . . . + pn ≤ gw. Among
all these pi’s, We claim that there must be at least (1 − ǫ1)n of them that are at most gw
ǫ1n. This is true because otherwise
there must be ǫ1n values that are larger than gw
ǫ1n, which will make the summation larger than gw. Without loss of generality,
we can thus assume pi ≤ gw
ǫ1n for 1 ≤ i ≤ (1 − ǫ)n. The set H is then constructed as the set containing node 1 through
node (1 − ǫ)n. Obvious |H| ≥ (1 − ǫ1)n and the probability of a length-w random walk starting from any node in H being
escaping is at most gw
ǫ1n = c1
g log n
n .
Consider any node V ∈ H, and we will draw a connection between the random walk starting from V in G and the random
walk starting from V in G′. In G′, let a′
i be the probability of V ’s tail being directed edge i for 1 ≤ i ≤ 2m. Given how we
picked w0 earlier, we know that the distribution a′
i has a variation distance of at most 1
n from the stationary distribution (i.e.,
the uniform distribution on the directed edges).
Now consider the graph G. For now let us assume that the adversary never allows any esc aping random walk to return
to the honest region. Let ai be the probability of the tail being directed edge i for 1 ≤ i ≤ 2m. Notice that we will have∑
i=1 2mai < 1 by deﬁnition. It is not difﬁcult to see that ai ≤ a′
i for all i and∑ 2m
i=1(a′
i − ai) ≤ c1g log n/n. Now if the
adversary does direct some escaping random walks back to the honest region, the probabilities may increase from ai to bi.
However, we must also have∑ 2m
i=1(bi − ai) ≤ c1g log n/n. Notice that there can still be random walks that do not return to
the honest region. We use b2m+1 ≤ c1g log n/n to denote such probability—this will make ∑ 2m+1
i=1 bi = 1.
We would like to eventually reason about the variation distance between the distribution of bi and the uniform distribution.
To do so, we deﬁne a′
2m+1 = 0. The variation distance between a′
i and bi is:
0.5
2m+1∑
i=1
|a′
i − bi| ≤ 0.5(c1
g log n
n +
2m∑
i=1
|a′
i − bi|)
≤ 0.5(c1
g log n
n +
2m∑
i=1
(|a′
i − ai| + |ai − bi|))
< 2c1
g log n
n
18

Finally, because the distribution a′
i has a variation distance of at most 1
n from the uniform distribution, the variation distance
between bi and the uniform distribution is at most 2c1
g log n
n + 1
n < c 2
g log n
n . From the property of variation distance [20],
we know that if we pick an edge from distributionbi, with at least probability of 1 − c2
g log n
n , the edge is a uniformly random
directed edge in the honest region. 2
Comment. It is important to notice that the honest region of the socialnetwork, together with the location of the attack edges,
uniquely determine which nodes are escaping and non-escaping. In other words, this is not affected by the routing tables.
Lemma 6 Consider any given non-escaping veriﬁer V (or suspect S) and its r tails in the r v-instances (or s-instances). For
any given constant δ > 0, with probability of at least 1 − δ:
• The number of escaping tails and non-uniform tails is O( g log n
n ) ·r.
• The number of uniform tails is (1 − O( g log n
n )) ·r.
Proof: The second claim directly follows from the ﬁrst claim. Let X be the total number of escaping and non-uniform
tails in all r instances. To prove the ﬁrst claim, it sufﬁces to show that th ere exists some universal constant c1, P r[X >
c1
g log n
n ·r] ≤ δ. Lemma 5 tells us that in any given instance, the probability of V ’s tail being escaping or non-uniform is at
most O( g log n
n ) < c 2
g log n
n for some universal constant c2. Let c1 = c2/δ. We thus have E[X] < c 2
g log n
n r = δc1
g log n
n r.
Invoking a Markov inequality on X will yield that P r[X > c 1
g log n
n r] ≤ δ. 2
Comment. We use Markov inequality instead of a Chernoff bound in the proof because we want the result to hold even for
small r values.
A.2. Why the Number of Accepted Sybil Nodes Is Properly Bound ed
We would like to prove these result for any r ≤ r0
√m, instead of only for r = r0
√m. This will allow us to use the
benchmarking technique described in Section 7 to estimate r.
Lemma 7 Consider any given constant r0 > 0, δ > 0, and any given honest veriﬁer V . Let w0 be from Lemma 5, w =
w0 log n, and r ≤ r0
√m. Then with probability of at least 1 − δ, the number of sybil nodes with tails intersecting with U(V )
is O(g log n).
Proof: Let X denote the number of intersections between U(V ) and the tainted tail set ∇. It sufﬁces to show that there exists
some universal constant c1, such that P r[X > c 1g log n] ≤ δ.
Consider any tail in U(V ). In each s-instance, there are at mostgw tainted tails. Because the tail from U(V ) is a uniformly
random edge, the probability of it intersecting with those tainted tails in the given s-instance is at most gw/(2m). With total
r s-instances, the expected number of intersections will be a t most rgw/(2m). Finally, we trivially have |U(V )| ≤ r and
thus E[X] ≤ r2gw/(2m) = r2
0w0g log n/2. Let c1 = r2
0w0/(2δ) and then invoke a Markov inequality on X. We will then
have P r[X > c 1g log n] ≤ δ. 2
Comment. Notice that Lemma 7 holds for both non-escaping veriﬁers and escaping veriﬁers.
Lemma 8 Consider any given constant r0 > 0, h > 0, δ > 0, and any given honest veriﬁer V . Let w0 be from Lemma 5,
w = w0 log n, and r ≤ r0
√m. Assume that g = o(log n/n). Then with probability of at least 1 − 2δ, the number of sybil
nodes accepted by V ’s non-uniform tails and escaping tails is O(g log n).
Proof: Deﬁne random variable Q to be the number of non-uniform tails and escaping tails that V has. From the balance
condition, we know that the number of sybil nodes accepted by V ’s non-uniform tails and escaping tails is at most Q ·h ·
max(log r, a), where a is the average number of suspects accepted by all tails of the veriﬁer. Lemma 6 tells us that with
probability of at least 1 − δ, Q is O( g log n
n ) ·r. Conditioned upon that Q = O( g log n
n ) ·r, we consider two cases:
• a ≤ log r: We have Q ·h·max(log r, a) = Qh log r = O((g log n) r log r
n ) = O((g log n) r0
√m log(r0
√m)
n ) = O(g log n)
(assuming √m log m = O(n)).
19

• a > log r: Let X be the number of suspects accepted by V ’s non-uniform tails and escaping tails. Let Y be the
number of suspects accepted by V ’s uniform tails. There are n honest suspects that can be accepted. Furthermore,
Lemma 7 tells us that with probability of at least 1 − δ, the number of sybil nodes accepted by these uniform tails is
O(g log n) = o(n) < n when g = o(n/ log n). Thus with probability of at least 1 − δ, Y ≤ 2n. The load on the
non-uniform tails and escaping tails must satisfy the balance condition, which implies:
X
Q ≤ h ·X + Y
r ≤ h ·X + 2n
r
⇒ X
O( g log n
n ) ·r
≤ h ·X + 2n
r
⇒ X ≤ (X + 2n) ·O( g log n
n )
⇒ X ≤ O(g log n)/(1 − O( g log n
n )) = O(g log n)/(1 − o(1)) = O(g log n)
2
A.3. Why Honest Suspects will Satisfy the Intersection Cond ition
Lemma 9 Assume that g = o(log n/n) and consider any give constant δ > 0. We can always ﬁnd a universal constant
r0 ≥ 1 such that if r = r0
√m, then for any given non-escaping veriﬁer V and any given non-escaping suspect S, U(V ) and
U(S) intersect with probability of at least 1 − δ.
Proof: Directly follows from Lemma 6 and the Birthday Paradox. 2
A.4. Why Honest Suspects Will Satisfy the Balance Condition
In this section, we prove why most honest suspects will satis fy the balance condition. Together with Lemma 9, this will
complete the proof for SybilLimit’s guarantee on the fracti on of honest nodes accepted. The proof in this section turns o ut
to be the most tricky among all our proofs. For better explanation, we will construct our proofs based on connections among
the following 4 cases on how the load of the veriﬁer’s tails ar e incremented. In all cases, we still require the load on ever y
tail to be no larger than h ·max(log r, a).
A Every accepted non-escaping honest suspect S increments the load of every tail in U(V ) that intersects with S’s uniform
tails. The load of V ’s tails does not increase in other cases. In other words, i) n o additional load is imposed on tails in
U(V ), and ii) those tails not in U(V ) (i.e., non-uniform tails and escaping tails) always have a load of 0.
B Every accepted non-escaping honest suspect S increments the load of one tail, out of all tails in U(V ) that intersect with
S’s uniform tails. We allow the adversary to determine the tai l picked. The load of V ’s tails does not increase in other
cases.
C Every accepted non-escaping honest suspect S increments the load of the least loaded tail (with tie breaki ng based on
instance number), out of all tails in U(V ) that intersect with S’s uniform tails. The load of V ’s tails does not increase in
other cases.
D Every accepted non-escaping honest suspect S increments the load of the least loaded tail (with tie breaki ng based on
instance number), among all tails in U(V ) that intersect with S’s tails (notice that it is “ S’s tails” instead of “ S’s
uniform tails”). Additionally, for tails in U(V ), the adversary may increase their load arbitrarily at any po int of time,
subject to the condition that the total increase load (for all tails in U(V ) combined) is ǫn for some small ǫ > 0. For tails
not in U(V ), the adversary may increase their load arbitrarily at any point of time with no restrictions.
The last case D captures SybilLimit’s behavior (pessimistically). The ﬁr st three cases are not “implementable”, but they serve
as stepping stones in our proofs and arguments.
20

A.4.1 Proofs for A, B, and C
Lemma 10 Suppose g = o(n/ log n). In A, consider any given set ofk honest non-escaping suspects and any given directed
edge in the honest region of the social network. Let Z denote the number of intersections that edge has with all the uniform
tail sets of the k suspects. Then with probability of at least 1 − 2−r/2, Z is lower bounded by some binomial distribution with
mean of rk/(16m) and upper bounded by some other binomial distribution with mean of rk/(2m).
Proof: Consider the ith s-instance and let random variableTi to be the number of uniform tails that thek suspects have in that
s-instance. Each of these Ti tails is a uniformly random edge, but they are potentially co rrelated. Despite such correlation,
let Xj (for 1 ≤ j ≤ Ti) be indicator random variable denoting th event that the (Xj)th tail intersect with the given directed
edge. Further deﬁne X to be the event that some tail from the Ti tails intersect with the given directed edge. Because of
the backtracability of the random routes within any given s- instance, at most one of all these Xi’s can be 1. Thus we have
X = X1 + X2 + ...XTi. From linearity of expectation, we know that E[X] = E[X1] + E[X2] + ... + E[XTi ] = Ti
2m. On
the other hand, because X is an indicator random variable, P r[X] = E[X] = Ti
2m.
Next we would like to study the distribution ofTi. Deﬁne indicator random variable Yj to denote the event that the tail from
the jth suspect in the given s-instance is a uniform tail, for 1 ≤ j ≤ k. Obviously, we have Ti =∑ k
j=1 Yj = k −∑ k
j=1 ¯Yj.
Since all the k suspects are non-escaping, we know from Lemma 5 that P r[ ¯Yj ] = o(1) < 1
8e when g = o(n/ log n).
Thus E[∑ k
j=1 ¯Yj] < k
8e. Invoking a Markov inequality and we have P r[∑ k
j=1 ¯Yj ≥ k
2 ] ≤ 1
4e. This in turn means that
P r[Ti < k
2 ] ≤ 1
4e .
We obviously have 0 ≤ Ti ≤ k for 1 ≤ i ≤ r. Deﬁne indicator random variable Wi to denote the event that Ti < k
2
for 1 ≤ i ≤ r. Obviously, we have P r[Wi] ≤ 1
4e for any i. Deﬁne W = ∑ r
i=1 Wi, where E[W ] < r
4e. Because all r
s-instances are independent, we can invoke a strong Chernof f bound on W , which will show that P r[W ≥ r
2 ] = P r[W ≥
(2e) ·E[W ]] < 2−r/2. This means that with probability of at least 1 − 2−r/2, there will be at least ( r
2 − 1) s-instances with
Ti ≥ k
2 . Thus the binomial distribution with mean of ( r
2 − 1) ·k/2
2m > rk/ (16m) (when n, and thus m and r, sufﬁciently
large) is a lower bound on Z.
To upper bound Z, notice that we have r s-instances and that Ti ≤ k for 1 ≤ i ≤ r. Thus the binomial distribution with
mean of r · k
2m = rk/(2m) upper bounds Z. 2
Comment. In the proofs below, we will invoke Chernoff bounds on the binomial distributions to bound the tail distribution
of Z. This is why we only care about the means of the binomial distributions.
Lemma 11 In B, assume g = o(n/ log n). For any given constant δ > 0, we can ﬁnd a universal constant r0 such that
let r = r0 ·√m will give us the following property. If we pick an arbitrary n on-escaping veriﬁer V and an arbitrary non-
escaping suspect S, construct a uniformly random permutation of all suspects (including honest and sybil suspects), and let
V verify the sequence one by one, then the probability of V accepting S is at least 1 − δ.
Proof: In B, only non-escaping honest suspects may affect the load onV ’s tails. Thus to simplify discussion in the following,
we delete all other nodes from the sequence. Based on Lemma 9, we can pick appropriate r0 such that for V and any non-
escaping suspect S′, U(V ) and U(S′) intersect with probability of at least 1 − δ2/64. We will prove that such r0 will satisfy
the requirement of the lemma.
Consider the set H of all non-escaping suspects. Let Y be the number of suspects in H whose uniform tail set does not
intersect with V ’s uniform tail set:
Y = |{S | S ∈ H and U(S) does not intersect with U(V )}|
Obviously we have E[Y ] ≤ δ2|H|/64. Invoke a Markov inequality and we have P r[Y ≥ δ|H|/8] ≤ δ/8. This means that
probability at least 1 − δ/8, the total number of non-escaping suspects with their uniform tail sets intersecting with U(V ) is
at least (1 − δ/8)|H|. Consider a uniformly random permutation of the |H| suspects. Let the ith suspect in the sequence be
Si for 1 ≤ i ≤ | H|. Suppose that S is the kth suspect in the sequence, where 1 ≤ k ≤ | H|. Obviously, with probability
1 − δ/4, k ≤ (1 − δ/4)|H|.
For 1 ≤ i ≤ k, deﬁne indicator random variable Xi to be the event that the combined load imposed by the ﬁrst i suspects
in the sequence satisﬁes the balance condition. Obviously, X1 means that the load imposed by the ﬁrst suspect satisﬁes the
balance condition. If the ﬁrst suspect also satisfy the inte rsection condition, it will be accepted. On the other hand, s ince
the veriﬁer veriﬁes the suspects sequentially, X2 by itself does not necessarily mean that the load imposed by t he second
21

suspect (after the ﬁrst suspect) will satisfy the balance co ndition, since the ﬁrst suspect could have been rejected if X1 is not
true. Thus X2 only means that the combined load of the ﬁrst and the second suspect satisﬁes the balance condition. However,
X1X2...Xk do indeed imply that all k suspects, when veriﬁed sequentially, satisfy the balance c ondition.
Considered upon Y ≤ δ|H|/8 and k ≤ (1 − δ/4)|H|, Lemma 12 below will prove that P r[X1X2...Xk] ≥ 1 − δ/2.
Notice that U(V ) and U(S) intersects with probability of at least 1 − δ2/64. A union bound then shows that S is accepted
with probability at least 1 − δ. 2
Lemma 12 In B, assume g = o(n/ log n). Let δ, r0, H, Si (for 1 ≤ i ≤ |H|), S, k, Y , and Xi (for 1 ≤ i ≤ k) be the same
as in the proof of Lemma 11. If Y ≤ δ|H|/8 and k ≤ (1 − δ/4)|H|, then using any constant h ≥ max(24, 4.8r2
0) in the
balance condition is sufﬁcient to ensure P r[X1X2...Xk] ≥ 1 − δ/2.
Proof: For 1 ≤ i ≤ k, we will prove that P r[Xi] ≥ 1 − δ/(2n). Let µ = ri/(2m):
• µ ≤ 10 log r: Notice that the load of a tail in B will never be larger than in A. Since Xi is about the combined load
imposed by the ﬁrst i suspects that are non-escaping, we can invoke Lemma 10 to rea son about the distribution for the
load. Notice that we are not yet discussing whether individual suspect will be accepted. Lemma 10 shows that in A, the
load of a tail in U(V ) is upper bounded by a binomial distribution with mean of µ . A Chernoff bound on the binomial
distribution will show that the probability of the load bein g larger than 24 log r is at most e−(19.6 log r)/4 < 1/r4. The
load on different tails are correlated. But a union bound can still show that the probability that all tails in U(V ) have a
load smaller than 24 log r is at least 1 − r ·1/r4 > 1 − 1/r3 = 1 − 1/(r3
0m1.5) > 1 − 1/n1.5 = 1 − o(1/n). On the other
hand, the bar is at least h log r > 24 log r which means that the balance condition must be satisﬁed with probability of
at least 1 − o(1/n) > 1 − δ/(2n).
• µ > 10 log r: Again the load of a tail in B will never be larger than in A. Lemma 10 shows that in A, the load of a tail
in U(V ) is upper bounded by a binomial distribution with mean of µ . A Chernoff bound will show that the probability
of the load being larger than 2.4µ is at most e−(1.96µ )/4 < e −(19.6 log r)/4 < 1/r4. A same union bound as before will
then show that the probability that all tails in U(V ) have a load smaller than 2.4µ is at least 1 − o(1/n).
On the other hand, deﬁne random variable Z to denote the number of non-escaping suspects before Si whose uniform
tail sets intersect with V ’s uniform tail set:
Z = |{Sj|1 ≤ j ≤ i and U(Sj ) intersect with U(V )}|
Conditioned upon Y ≤ δ|H|/8 and 1 ≤ j ≤ i ≤ k ≤ δ|H|/4, Lemma 13 will prove:
P r[Z ≥ i
4 ] ≥ 1 − exp(− i
16 )
From the conditions µ > 10 log r and µ = ri
2m, we have i > 20m log r
r =
20√m log(r0
√m)
r0
> 20 log r0
r0
√n. Therefore:
P r[Z ≥ i
4 ] ≥ 1 − exp
(
− i
16
)
> 1 − exp
(
− 20 log r0
16r0
√n
)
= 1 − o( 1
n )
Thus with at least 1 − o(1/n) probability, the total load across all tails is at least i/4, and the bar is at least:
h ·a ≥ 4.8r2
0 · i
4r = 4.8ir
4m = 2.4µ
A union bound then shows P r[Xi] ≥ 1 − δ/(2n).
Finally, k ≤ n and a simple union bound across all Xi’s ﬁnishes the proof. 2
Lemma 13 In B, assume g = o(n/ log n). Let δ, r0, H, Si (for 1 ≤ i ≤ | H|), S, k, Y , Xi (for 1 ≤ i ≤ k), and Z be the
same as in the proof of Lemma 12. Conditioned upon Y ≤ δ|H|/8 and 1 ≤ i ≤ k ≤ δ|H|/4, we have:
P r[Z ≥ i
4 ] ≥ 1 − exp(− i
16 )
22

Proof: Assume that all routing table contents are already known. Co nditioned upon Y ≤ δ|H|/8, deﬁne indicator random
variable Zj to denote the event that U(Sj) intersects with U(V ), for 1 ≤ j ≤ i. Notice that Zj is deﬁne over the domain
of all possible permutations (of the non-escaping suspects ) instead of over the domain of all possible routing table con tents.
Obviously, we haveZ = Z1 + Z2 + ... + Zi. In the remainder of the proof for this lemma, when we say a suspect “intersect”
with the veriﬁer, we mean the suspect’s uniform tail set inte rsects with the veriﬁer’s uniform tail set.
We already know that out of the |H| non-escaping suspects, only δ/4 fraction of them do not intersect with the veriﬁer.
A random permutation of the |H| suspects can be constructed in the following way: We ﬁrst pic k a (uniformly) random
suspect out of H (without replacement) as S1. Next we pick a (uniformly) random suspect out of the remaini ng nodes
(without replacement) as S2, and so on. Let Hj be the set of remaining suspects immediately before we pick Sj. For any
1 ≤ j ≤ i ≤ k ≤ δ|H|/4, the fraction of suspects in Hj that intersect with the veriﬁer is at least:
(1 − δ/8) |H| − (j − 1)
|H| − (j − 1) = 1 − δ|H|/8
|H| − j + 1 ≥ 1 − δ|H|/8
|H| − (1 − δ/4) |H| + 1 = 1 − δ|H|/8
δ|H|/4 + 1 > 0.5
This means that the event Zj occurs with probability at least 0.5, regardless of whether events Z1, Z2, .... Zj−1 occur or not.
Deﬁne random variable Z ′ as the sum ofi independent Bernoulli trials where each Bernoulli trial succeeds with probability
of 0.5. A Chernoff bound of Z ′ tells us that
P r[Z ′ ≤ i/4] = P r[Z ′ ≤ (1 − 0.5)E[Z ′]] ≤ exp (−E[Z ′]/8) = exp(−i/16)
Finally, it is obvious that P r[Z ≥ i/4] ≥ P r[Z ′ ≥ i/4] ≥ 1 − P r[Z ′ ≤ i/4] ≥ 1 − exp(−i/16). 2
Comment. C is actually a special case of B, thus Lemma 11, 12 and 13 for B directly carry over to C.
A.4.2 Proofs for D
D has two differences from C. First, in D, every accepted non-escaping honest suspect picks the leas t loaded tail out of all
intersecting tails (instead of out of those intersecting ta ils in U(V )). We deﬁne σ(V ) to denote all of V ’s tails not in U(V ).
Namely, these are V ’s non-uniform tails and escaping tails. Second, the advers ary may now interfere to cause honest nodes
to be rejected, by intentionally cause load imbalance.
We need to precisely model such interference from the advers ary. To do so, we start from a sequence S1S2... of non-
escaping honest suspects that were all accepted underC. We consider this sequence of honest suspects as a sequence of white
balls, each of which goes into some bin (tail) inU(V ) in C. In D, the adversary may interfere in the following two ways, with
the goal of causing some of suspects previously accepted to be now rejected:
1. The adversary may introduce sybil nodes with tails inters ecting with V ’s tails. If these sybil nodes are accepted, then
the load of V ’s tails will increase, potentially causing some previously accepted non-escaping honest suspects to be now
rejected. As a concrete example, imagine that previously in C, S5 only had a single intersection with all of V ’s tails
and the intersection is on V ’s uniform tail #12. So S5 conceptually placed a ball into bin 12. Now in D, before S5 is
veriﬁed, the adversary introduces a sybil node with tails in tersecting with tail 12. Further assume that after the sybil
node is accepted, tail 12’s load happens to reach the bar. Next when S5 is veriﬁed in D, S5 will no longer satisfy the
balance condition and thus be rejected.
We model this kind of interference from the adversary by allowing the adversary in D to insert red balls at any place in
the sequence of white balls. Each red ball corresponds to an a ccepted sybil node, and will increment the load of some
tail of V ’s.
Our later proof will prove that the “damage” caused by each red ball is limited, leveraging the following key observation
in the above example: After S5 is rejected, the load on tail 12 go back to “normal”. More prec isely, the sybil node
caused tail 12 to have one extra load than before. However, S5 should have incremented the load of tail 12. Now that
S5 is rejected, the load of tail 12 becomes the same as before (i. e., as in C). In other words, after S5 is rejected, the
inﬂuence of the adversary “disappears”. To cause the reject ion of another honest suspect, the adversary has to introduce
another red ball. The scenario can get more complex. Neverth eless, our proof later is based on a generalization of the
above intuition.
2. The adversary may register with some of V ’s tails the public key of some honest suspect previously acc epted under C.
This kind of interference is quite subtle and perhaps counte r-intuitive. As a concrete example, imagine that previousl y
23

in C, S5 only had a single intersection with all of V ’s tails and the intersection is on V ’s uniform tail #12. Now in D, the
adversary intentionally registers the public key of S5 with one of the tainted tails that intersect with V ’s tail #14. The
adversary can further fool S5 into believing that the tail is indeed one ofS5’s tail, as long as S5 has at least one escaping
tail. After all such manipulation from the adversary, S5’s tails now have two intersections with V ’s tails. Assume that
when S5 is veriﬁed, tail 14 has a lower load than tail 12. As a result, S5 will increment the load of tail 14 instead of
tail 12. It may seem at this point that the adversary almost helped us to achieve better balancing. However, imagine that
later tail 14 gets overloaded, and because the adversary caused tail 14 to have one extra load, some honest suspect (e.g.,
S16) may be rejected.
We model this second kind of interference from the adversary by allowing the adversary in D to replace some white
balls in the sequence with green balls. A green ball (in D) will go into a different bin from the bin that the replaced
white ball went into in C. In our example above, the green ball (corresponding to S5) goes into bin 14 in D, while the
corresponding white ball went into bin 12 in C.
Later we intend to prove that the “damage” caused by each gree n ball is limited. The intuition here is trickier than the
earlier intuition for red balls. Namely, here even after S16 is rejected, the load of the tails do not go back to “normal”.
For example, tail 12 still has one less load than before. Because our bar is ﬂoating with the average (and thus total load),
this may cause the bar to be too low. The key insight here is tha t to cause the total load to drop by one, at least one
honest suspect is accepted (S5 in the example). Thus the total load in D can never drop below half of the total load in C.
This in turn means that doubling the constant h used in C is sufﬁcient to prevent the bar from dropping and offset such
disruptive effect.
Finally, if some white balls in the sequence are now rejected in D (e.g., due to interference from the adversary), we say that
they are now black. By deﬁnition, it is impossible for a ball to be simultaneous ly black and green.
The total number of red balls and green balls that the adversa ry can use in bins (tails) in σ(V ) is potentially unlimited.
But for bins (tails) in U(V ), Section 6.2 explained that the total number of red balls and green balls the adversary can use is
within ǫ′′n for some small ǫ′′.
Lemma 14 Consider a sequence of honest non-escaping honest suspects that were all accepted under C (i.e., a sequence
of white balls). In D, we double the constant h in the balance condition from C. Suppose that in D by inserting red balls
and replacing some white balls with green balls, the adversary manages to prevent K of those suspects from being accepted
under D. Then the total number of red and green balls used in bins in U(V ) is at least K.
Proof: To avoid notation confusion, we let the bar inC be b = h ·max(log r, a) and the bar in D be b′ = h′ ·max(log r, a′),
where h′ = 2 h. Let the K non-escaping honest suspected rejected in D be S1, S2, ..., SK. We use induction to prove the
following two claims for 1 ≤ k ≤ K:
Claim 1 When verifying Sk, b′ ≥ b.
Claim 2 In D, before Sk is veriﬁed, the total number of red balls and green balls used in bins in U(V ) is at least k.
Induction base. For k = 1 , notice that when verifying S1, the total load of all the tails in D must be no smaller than in C.
This is because all white balls before S1 in the sequence are still accepted in D (since S1 is the very ﬁrst black ball), and
thus contribute to the total load. The total load in D can be larger because the adversary may insert additional red balls. As a
result, we have a′ ≥ a and thus b′ = h′ ·max(log r, a′) > h ·max(log r, a) = b.
Next we prove Claim 2 by showing that when verifying S1, if the total number of red and green balls in bins inU(V ) is 0,
then S1 must be accepted. Let the number of white balls before S1 in C be z. We will prove via an induction on z that when
verifying S1, for any tail in U(V ), its load in D is no larger than in C. If this is indeed correct, then together with the fact that
b′ ≥ b, we know that S1 must be accepted in D.
The case for z = 0 is trivial. Now assume that the previous argument holds for z and we consider z + 1. Let R be the
(z + 1)th white ball in C. Suppose that R goes into bin (tail) i in C and bin (tail) j in D. By deﬁnition of C, bin i must be in
U(V ). Obviously, we only need to consider the case where i ⁄= j and where bin j is in U(V ) as well. We ﬁrst consider the
case of i < j . Immediately before R is accepted, let the load of bin i be x and x′ in C and D, respectively. Similarly let the
load of bin j be y and y′. Because there are no green balls in bin i and bin j, it means that both bini and bin j are intersecting
tails in both C and D. Because R chooses bin i (over bin j) in C and bin j (over bin i) in D, we know that x ≤ y and x′ > y ′.
Induction hypothesis tells us that x′ ≤ x and y′ ≤ y. If y′ < y , then the claim still holds after R goes into bin j in D. If
y′ = y, we must have x′ > y ′ = y ≥ x ≥ x′, which is impossible. Finally, the case for i > j is similar.
24

Inductive step. Assume now that the previous two claims hold up to k. Namely,
1. For any 1 ≤ i ≤ k, when verifying Sk, b′ ≥ b.
2. In D, before Sk is veriﬁed, the total number of red balls and green balls used in tails in U(V ) is at least k.
To prove Claim 1 for k + 1, we compare the total load load in C immediately after Sk is accepted and the total load load′
in D immediately after Sk is rejected. Assume that the adversary has used x red balls and y green balls in tails in U(V ). We
know that:
• x + y ≥ k: From induction hypothesis.
• y ≤ load − k: Since each green ball corresponds to some distinct white ba ll in C and there are at most load − k white
balls so far.
• load′ = load + x − k: Each red ball increments the total load.
Given these relationships, Lemma 15 proves that load′/load ≥ 0.5. Now notice that by deﬁnition, all white balls between
Sk and Sk+1 are all accepted in both C and D. This means that when verifying Sk+1, we still have load′/load ≥ 0.5 and
thus a′ ≥ a/2. This in turn means that b′ = h′ ·max(log r, a′) ≥ 2h ·max(log r, a/2) ≥ h ·max(log r, a) = b.
To prove Claim 2 for k + 1, it sufﬁces to show that if the adversary only uses k red and green balls in bins in U(V ), it is
impossible for Sk+1 to be rejected. We deﬁne:
extra =
∑
bin i is in U(V )
max(0, bin i’s load in D− bin i’s load in C)
Obviously, if extra = 0 immediately before verifying Sk+1, then together with b′ ≥ b, we immediately know that Sk+1 will
be accepted. To prove extra = 0, we will show that:
extra ≤ number of red balls and green balls − number of black balls (1)
If the above inequality holds, then using only k red and green balls will leave us with extra ≤ 0, and Sk+1 will be accepted.
This will then complete the proof for the inductive step for Claim 2.
Consider the sequence of balls in D up to but not including Sk+1. We prove Inequality 1 via an induction on the length
z of the sequence. The induction base for z = 0 is trivial, since both sides of the inequality is 0. Now assum e the inequality
holds for z and we will prove that it holds for z + 1. We consider the color of the last ball in the sequence:
Black This means that the ball is Sk. Suppose the ball goes to bin i in C and increments the load of bin i from x to x + 1.
From Claim 1, b′ ≥ b. Thus if Sk is rejected in D, it must be because that bin i has a load of at least x + 1 before
verifying Sk in D. Since Sk is accepted in C and is rejected in D, it must decrease extra by 1. Thus Inequality 1 still
holds.
Red Obvious because extra can increase by at most 1 while the right-hand side of Inequality 1 is guaranteed to increase by
1.
Green Obvious because extra can increase by at most 1 while the right-hand side of Inequal ity 1 is guaranteed to increase
by 1.
White Suppose the white ball goes into bin i in C and bin j in D. By deﬁnition of C, bin i must be in U(V ). Obviously, we
only need to consider the case of i ⁄= j. If bin j is in σ(V ), then this white ball will either decrement extra or leave it
unchanged. Thus Inequality 1 will continue to hold.
Next we consider the case where binj is in U(V ) and where i < j . Immediately before the white ball is accepted, let the
load of bin i be x and x′ in C and D, respectively. Similarly let the load of bin j be y and y′. Because the ball is already
know to be white (instead of green), it means that both bini and bin j are intersecting tails in both C and D. Because the
white ball chooses bin i (over bin j) in C and bin j (over bin i) in D, we know that x ≤ y and x′ > y ′. If y′ < y , then
extra can never increase because of the white ball. On the other hand, if y′ ≥ y, we must have x′ > y ′ ≥ y ≥ x. Thus
the white ball will decrement extra on the behalf of bin i and increment extra on the behalf of bin j, again leaving
extra unchanged. Finally, the case where bin j is in U(V ) and where i > j is similar.
25

This ﬁnishes the proof for Inequality 1, which in turn, compl etes the inductive step for Claim 2. 2
Lemma 15 Consider arbitrary integers k ≥ 1, x ≥ 0, y ≥ 0, load ≥ 0, and load′ ≥ 0, where x + y ≥ k, y ≤ load − k,
and load′ = load + x − k. Then load′/load ≥ 0.5.
Proof:
load′/load ≥ 0.5
⇔ load ≥ 2k − 2x
⇐ y + k ≥ 2k − 2x
⇔ y + 2x ≥ k
⇐ y + x ≥ k
2
A.5. Proof for the main SybilLimit theorem—Theorem 3
Proof for Theorem 3:. To avoid notation collision, we will prove that “for any give n constant ǫ′ > 0 and δ′ > 0, we can
always ﬁnd a set of (1 − ǫ′)n honest veriﬁers and universal constants w0 and r0, such that using w = w0 log n and r = r0
√m
in SybilLimit will guarantee that for any given veriﬁer V in the set, with probability of at least 1 − δ′, V accepts at most
O(g log n) sybil nodes and at least (1 − ǫ′)n honest nodes”.
Lemma 5 tells us that there exist at least (1 − ǫ)n non-escaping veriﬁers. We let w0 to be the w0 as determined in
Lemma 5 and r0 to be the r0 as determined in Lemma 11. For number of sybil nodes accepted , Lemma 7 and 8 tells us that
a non-escaping veriﬁer V will accept at most O(log n) sybil nodes with probability of at least 1 − 3δ.
Next consider the number Q of honest nodes accepted. There are at most ǫn escaping honest suspects. Consider any
non-escaping honest suspects S and non-escaping veriﬁer V . In C for any ǫ > 0, we know from Lemma 11 thatV will accept
S with probability of at least 1 − ǫ. Let X be the number of non-escaping honest suspects rejected by V (out of the n honest
suspects). We have E[X] ≤ ǫn. Invoke a Markov inequality and we have P r[X ≥ ǫ
δ n] ≤ δ.
Next we consider the interference from the adversary on the balance condition. As from Section 6.2, the load on a uniform
tail of V ’s may increase when it intersects with:
1. Uniform tails of non-escaping honest suspects.
2. Non-uniform tails of non-escaping honest suspect. In each s-instance, Lemma 5 tells us that there are on expectation
o(n) < ǫn such tails.
3. Uniform or non-uniform tails of escaping honest suspects. There are at most ǫn such tails in each s-instance.
4. T ainted T ails.There are O(g log n) = o(n) < ǫn such tails in each s-instance.
In each s-instance, the expected number of tails in the last three cases is thus at most 3ǫn. We would like to prove in the next
that the number of intersections ( Y ) between U(V ) and these tails, in all s-instances, satisﬁes P r[Y > 1.5r2
0ǫ
δ n] < δ . The
proof is somewhat similar to the proof of Lemma 7. In a given s-instance, let random variable Z denote the number of tails in
the last three cases. Let pi = P r[Z = i]. We obviously have∑ pi ·i = E[Z] ≤ 3ǫn. Consider any tail in U(V ), and because
the tail is a uniform tail, we know that the expected number of intersections it has with those tails in the given s-instance is:
∑
pi · i
2m ≤ 3ǫn
2m
With total r s-instances, the expected number of intersections will be at most 3ǫrn
2m . Finally, we trivially have |U(V )| ≤ r and
thus E[Y ] ≤ r2·3ǫn
2m = 1.5r2
0ǫn. Invoke a Markov inequality on Y and we have P r[Y ≥ 1.5r2
0ǫ
δ n] ≤ δ.
26

Now from Lemma 14, we know that in D, Y is the maximum number of honest suspects that can be rejected due to
adversary’s interference. Thus with probability of at least 1 − 2δ, we have:
n − Q ≤ ǫn (escaping suspects) + ǫ
δ ·n (non-escaping suspects rejected under C)
+ 1.5r2
0ǫ
δ n (additional non-escaping suspected rejected when going from C to D)
= ( ǫ + ǫ
δ + 1.5r2
0ǫ
δ ) ·n
To ﬁnish the proof, we only need to ﬁnd constants ǫ > 0 and δ > 0 satisfying:
5δ ≤ δ′
ǫ ≤ ǫ′
ǫ + ǫ
δ + 1.5r2
0ǫ
δ ≤ ǫ′
One can easily verify the following constant ǫ and δ will satisfy the above inequalities:
δ = min(1 , δ′
5 )
ǫ = min( ǫ′, ǫ′ ·min(1, δ′
5 )
2 + 1.5r2
0
)
This then completes our proof. 2
A.6. Proof for the Ω( g) Lower Bound
Theorem 16 Consider any constant c > 0 and any g ∈ [1, n]. For any graph G with n nodes and O(log n) mixing time, we
can always ﬁnd another graph G′ with n′ = (n + c ·g) nodes where i) G is a subgraph of G′, ii) the number of edges between
nodes in G and nodes in G′ \ G is g, and iii) G′ has O(log n′) mixing time.
Proof: To prepare for the proof, we need to introduce the notion of conductance. Consider any given graph with vertex set
of V . For any S ⊆ V , we deﬁne ¯S = V \ S. For any X ⊆ V and Y ⊆ V , deﬁne function e(X, Y ) = |{(x, y) | x →
y is a directed edge of graph G and x ∈ X and y ∈ Y }|. The conductance Φ is deﬁned as:
Φ = min
S ⊆ V and e (S, S) + e
(
S, ¯S
)
≤ |E|
(
e
(
S, ¯S
)
e (S, S) + e
(
S, ¯S
)
)
= min
S ⊆ V and e (S, S) + e
(
S, ¯S
)
≤ |E|

 1
e(S,S)
e(S, ¯S) + 1


Classic theory [16] on graph mixing time tells us that Φ being lower bounded by a positive constant is a both sufﬁcien t and
necessary condition for O(log n + 1
∆ ) mixing time under ∆ = 1
n.
We obtain G′ in the following way. We ﬁrst pick an arbitrary connected gra ph F with c sybil nodes. Obviously, there are
many such F ’s. Next we pick arbitrary g nodes from G. For each node picked, we attach F to that node using a single edge.
We called that node as the introducer of all the nodes in F . It does not matter which node in F that edge is connected to.
Obviously, G′ has (n + c ·g) nodes and G is a subgraph of G′. Also, the number of edges between nodes in G and nodes
in G′ \ G is exactly g. We only need to prove that G′ has O(log n) mixing time as well. Let E be G’s undirected edge set.
Similarly deﬁne V ′ and E′ for G′. Let Φ and Φ ′ be the conductance of G and G′, respectively. We will prove thatΦ ′ is lower
bounded by a constant where
Φ ′ = min
S′ ⊆ V ′ and e (S′, S′) + e
(
S′, ¯S′)
≤ |E′|

 1
e(S′,S′)
e(S′, ¯S′) + 1

 (2)
27

S’3
S’1
S’2
S =Y2 2
S2
S’ S’
Y’
Y’
Y’
1
3
2
Figure 13. Deﬁnition of sets in G′ in the proof for Theorem 16.
Consider any S′ ⊆ V ′ (see Figure 13), from the deﬁnition of conductance, we have t he condition that e (S′, S′) +
e
(
S′, ¯S′)
≤ | E′| = 1
2
(
e (S′, S′) + e
(
S′, ¯S′)
+ e
( ¯S′, S′)
+ e
( ¯S′, ¯S′))
, and since e
(
S′, ¯S′)
= e
( ¯S′, S′)
, we get
e (S′, S′) ≤ e
( ¯S′, ¯S′)
. If we want to prove that Φ ′ is lower bounded by a positive constant, we only need to argue that
e(S′,S′)
e(S′, ¯S′) is upper bounded by a positive constant.
In S′, deﬁne the set S′
1 = {x | x ∈ S′ and x ⁄∈V and x’s introducer is not in S′}, S′
2 = S′ \ S′
1. Deﬁne the set
S′
3 = {x|x ∈ S′
2 and x /∈ V }, S2 = S′
2 \ S′
3 and ¯S2 = V \ S2. Similar to the deﬁnition of S′
1, S′
2, S′
3 and S2 in S′, deﬁne sets
Y ′
1, Y ′
2, Y ′
3 and Y2 respectively in ¯S′. Deﬁne Y ′
1 = {x | x ∈ ¯S′ and x /∈ V and x′s introducer is not in ¯S′}, Y ′
2 = ¯S′ \ Y1,
Y ′
3 = {x | x ∈ Y ′
2 and x /∈ V }, and Y2 = Y ′
2 \ Y ′
3. It is apparent that Y2 is the same set as ¯S2. Figure 13 shows the deﬁnition
of all these sets.
In order to prove that
e(S′,S′)
e(S′, ¯S′) is upper bounded by a positive constant, we can ﬁrst considerthe simple case thate( ¯S′, ¯S′)+
e( ¯S′, S′) ≤ k(e(Y ′
1 , Y ′
1 ) + e(Y ′
1 , S′)), k is some positive constant which is larger than one. Lemma 17 h as proved that in
this case e(S′,S′)
e( ¯S′,S′) is upper bounded by a positive constant. Without loosing generality, we set k to be 2 and we also have that
e(S′,S′)
e(S′, ¯S′) is upper bounded by 2c2 + 1 which is a positive constant.
Next, consider the case that e( ¯S′, ¯S′) + e( ¯S′, S′) ≥ 2(e(Y ′
1 , Y ′
1 ) + e(Y ′
1 , S′)). Lemma 19 can prove that in this case,
e(S′,S′)
e(S′, ¯S′) is also upper bounded by a positive constant.
Finally, we have that e(S′,S′)
e(S′, ¯S′) is upper bounded by a positive constant in either case and Φ ′ is lower bounded by a positive
constant. 2
Lemma 17 Let G, G′, Φ , Φ ′, V , S′, ¯S′, c, Y ′
1,e (X, Y ) and F be the same as in the proof of Theorem 16. Conditioned upon
that e( ¯S′, ¯S′) + e( ¯S′, S′) ≤ k(e(Y ′
1 , Y ′
1 ) + e(Y ′
1, S′)), k is a positive constant which is larger than one, we have that e(S′,S′)
e( ¯S′,S′)
is upper bounded by a positive constant.
Proof: Since e( ¯S′, ¯S′) + e( ¯S′, S′) ≤ k(e(Y ′
1 , Y ′
1) + e(Y ′
1, S′)), and it is shown in the proof of Theorem 16 that e(S′, S′) ≤
28

e( ¯S′, S′), we have:
e(S′, S′)
e( ¯S′, S′) ≤ e( ¯S′, ¯S′)
e( ¯S′, S′) ≤ k(e(Y ′
1 , Y ′
1 ) + e(Y ′
1 , S′))
e( ¯S′, S′) − 1
From the deﬁnition of Y ′
1, we have Y ′
1 ⊆ ¯S′. Therefore, e(Y ′
1 , S′) ≤ e( ¯S′, S′) and we can get:
e(S′, S′)
e( ¯S′, S′) ≤ k(e(Y ′
1 , Y ′
1 ) + e(Y ′
1 , S′))
e( ¯S′, S′) − 1
≤ k(e(Y ′
1 , Y ′
1 ) + e(Y ′
1 , S′))
e(Y ′
1 , S′) − 1
= k(e(Y ′
1 , Y ′
1 )
e(Y ′
1 , S′) + k − 1
Lemma 18 has proved that e(Y ′
1 ,Y ′
1 )
e(Y ′
1 ,S′) ≤ c2. Finally, we have e(S′,S′)
e( ¯S′,S′) ≤ kc2 + k − 1. Since k > 1, it is obvious that kc2 + k − 1
is a positive constant. 2
Lemma 18 Let G, G′, S′, ¯S′, c, Y ′
1, e (X, Y ) and F be the same as in the proof of Theorem 16. Then we have
e(Y ′
1 ,Y ′
1)
e(Y ′
1 ,S′) ≤ c2
Proof: Consider that Y ′
1 can be partitioned into l groups ω1, ω2, ω3,..., ωl, and all nodes in each group are in the same
connected graph F . Obviously, there is no edge between any two groups and |Y ′
1 | = |ω1| + |ω2| + |ω3| + ... + |ωl|. For any
1 ≤ i ≤ l , |ωi| ≤ c.
e (Y ′
1 , Y ′
1 ) < |ω1|2 + |ω2|2 + |ω3|2 + ...|ωl|2
≤ c ·(|ω1| + |ω2| + |ω3| + ... + |ωl|)
= c · |Y ′
1 |
Because for each group in Y ′
1, there is an edge connecting it to its nodes’ introducer in S′ or there are edges connecting
nodes in this group to those nodes not in this group but in the same F as this group, the number of edges between Y ′
1 and S′
is at least the number of groups l, so we have e (Y ′
1 , S′) ≥ l, and since each group contains at most c nodes, it is obvious that
l ≥ |Y ′
1 |
c . Then we have :
e (Y ′
1 , Y ′
1 )
e (Y ′
1 , S′) ≤ c · |Y ′
1 |
l ≤ c · |Y ′
1 |
|Y ′
1 |
c
= c2
2
Lemma 19 Let G, G′, Φ , Φ ′, V , S′, ¯S′, c, S′
1, S′
2, S′
3, S2, Y ′
1, Y ′
2, Y ′
3, Y2, e (X, Y ) and F be the same as in the proof of
Theorem 16. Conditioned upon that e( ¯S′, ¯S′) + e( ¯S′, S′) ≥ 2(e(Y ′
1 , Y ′
1 ) + e(Y ′
1 , S′)), we have e(S′,S′)
e(S′, ¯S′) is upper bounded by
a positive constant.
Proof: From the deﬁnition of S′
1 and S′
2, we can easily get the following equation:
e (S′, S′)
e
(
S′, ¯S′) = e (S′
1, S′
1) + e (S′
2, S′
2) + e (S′
1, S′
2) + e (S′
2, S′
1)
e
(
S′
1, ¯S′)
+ e
(
S′
2, ¯S′)
Since nodes in S′
1 are not in V and their introducers are not in S′, there will be no edge in S′ connecting them to V or to
other nodes not in V but whose introducers are in S′, thus there is no edge between S′
1 and S′
2. So we have e (S′
2, S′
1) =
e (S′
1, S′
2) = 0 . Then, the equation becomes:
e (S′, S′)
e
(
S′, ¯S′) = e (S′
1, S′
1) + e (S′
2, S′
2)
e
(
S′
1, ¯S′)
+ e
(
S′
2, ¯S′) (3)
29

In order to prove that
e(S′,S′)
e(S′, ¯S′) is upper bounded by a positive constant, we only need to argue that both
e(S′
1,S′
1)
e(S′
1, ¯S′) and
e(S′
2,S′
2)
e(S′
2, ¯S′) are upper bounded by some positive constant. Lemma 20 has proved that
e(S′
1,S′
1)
e(S′
1, ¯S′) is upper bounded by c2. Consider
e(S′
2,S′
2)
e(S′
2, ¯S′) . From the deﬁnition of S′
2, S2, S′
3 we get:
e (S′
2, S′
2) = e (S′
3, S′
3) + e (S2, S2) + e (S2, S′
3) + e (S′
3, S2)
Using the similar argument in the proof of Lemma 20, we can con sider that S′
3 can be partitioned into r groups ω1, ω2,
ω3,..., ωr and we have e (S′
3, S′
3) ≤ c · |S′
3|. Since each group in S′
3 connects to some distinct node in S2 and each group
contains at most c nodes, we have |S′
3| ≤ c · |S2|. Because the edges between S2 and S′
3 are those connecting a group in
S′
3 and a corresponding node, the introducer of all the nodes in t hat group, in S2, we get e (S2, S′
3) = e (S′
3, S2) ≤ | S2|.
Since S2 is a subset of S′
2, we have e
(
S2, ¯S′)
≤ e
(
S′
2, ¯S′)
. And from the deﬁnition of ¯S2, it is obvious that ¯S2 ⊆ ¯S′, thus
e
(
S2, ¯S2
)
≤ e
(
S2, ¯S′)
. Now we have:
e (S′
2, S′
2)
e
(
S′
2, ¯S′) ≤ e (S′
2, S′
2)
e
(
S2, ¯S′) ≤ e (S′
2, S′
2)
e
(
S2, ¯S2
)
= e (S′
3, S′
3) + e (S2, S2) + e (S2, S′
3) + e (S′
3, S2)
e
(
S2, ¯S2
)
≤ c2|S2| + e (S2, S2) + |S2| + |S2|
e
(
S2, ¯S2
)
=
(
c2 + 2
)
|S2|
e
(
S2, ¯S2
) + e (S2, S2)
e
(
S2, ¯S2
)
Lemma 21 can prove e(S2,S2)
e(S2, ¯S2) is upper bounded by some positive constant, say a1. Then, we have e(S2,S2)
e(S2, ¯S2) ≤ a1. Since
G is a connected graph and S2 ⊆ V , we have e
(
S2, ¯S2
)
+ e (S2, S2) ≥ |S2|. Therefore, we can get:
e (S′
2, S′
2)
e
(
S′
2, ¯S′) ≤
(
c2 + 2
)
|S2|
e
(
S2, ¯S2
) + e (S2, S2)
e
(
S2, ¯S2
)
≤
(
c2 + 2
)
(1 + a1) e
(
S2, ¯S2
)
e
(
S2, ¯S2
) + a1
=
(
c2 + 2
)
(1 + a1) + a1
Until now, we have that
e(S′
1,S′
1)
e(S′
1, ¯S′) ≤ c2 and
e(S′
2,S′
2)
e(S′
2, ¯S′) ≤
(
c2 + 2
)
(1 + a1) + a1. Then, we have:
e
(
S′, ¯S′)
e (S′, S′) = e (S′
1, S′
1) + e (S′
2, S′
2)
e
(
S′
1, ¯S′)
+ e
(
S′
2, ¯S′)
≤ max{ e (S′
1, S′
1)
e
(
S′
1, ¯S′) , e (S′
2, S′
2)
e
(
S′
2, ¯S′) }
=
(
c2 + 2
)
(1 + a1) + a1
Finally, we have that Φ ′ is lower bounded by 1
(c2+3)(1+a1), which is a positive constant. 2
Lemma 20 Let G, G′, S′, ¯S′, c, S′
1, e (X, Y ) and F be the same as in the proof of Theorem 16. Then we have
e(S′
1,S′
1)
e(S′
1, ¯S′) ≤ c2
Proof: Using the similar argument in the proof of Lemma 18, we can easily get the conclusion that
e(S′
1,S′
1)
e(S′
1, ¯S′) ≤ c2 2
30

Lemma 21 Let G, G′, Φ , Φ ′, V , S′, ¯S′, c, S′
1, S′
2, S′
3, S2, Y ′
1, Y ′
2, Y ′
3, Y2, e (X, Y ) and F be the same as in the proof of
Theorem 16. Conditioned upon that e( ¯S′, ¯S′) + e( ¯S′, S′) ≥ 2(e(Y ′
1 , Y ′
1 ) + e(Y ′
1 , S′)), we have e(S2,S2)
e(S2, ¯S2) is upper bounded by
some positive constant.
Proof: For convenience, we deﬁne the number of nodes in ¯S2 to be β and deﬁne x1 = e
( ¯S2, ¯S2
)
+ e
( ¯S2, S2
)
, x2 =
e (S2, S2) + e
(
S2, ¯S2
)
, x′
1 = e
( ¯S′, ¯S′)
+ e
( ¯S′, S′)
, x′
2 = e (S′, S′) + e
(
S′, ¯S′)
, and x′
3 = e (Y ′
1 , Y ′
1 ) + e (Y ′
1 , S′). As
shown in the proof of Theorem 16, we have e(S′, S′) ≤ e( ¯S′, ¯S′). Then we can get x′
1 ≥ x′
2. And from the condition that
e( ¯S′, ¯S′) + e( ¯S′, S′) ≥ 2(e(Y ′
1, Y ′
1 ) + e(Y ′
1 , S′)), we have x′
3 ≤ 1
2 x′
1. From the deﬁnition of x′
1 and all sets we have the
following equation:
x′
1 = e (Y ′
1 , Y ′
1 ) + e (Y ′
1 , S′) + e (Y ′
3 , Y ′
3) + e (Y ′
3 , S′) + e (Y2, Y2) + e (Y2, S′)
+e (Y ′
1 , Y ′
3) + e (Y ′
3 , Y ′
1 ) + e (Y ′
1 , Y2) + e (Y2, Y ′
1 ) + e (Y ′
3 , Y2) + e (Y2, Y ′
3 )
Using the similar argument in the proof of Lemma 19 for S′
1 and S′
2, we can get that there is no edge between Y ′
1 and Y ′
2.
Then we have e (Y ′
1 , Y ′
3 ) = e (Y ′
3, Y ′
1 ) = e (Y ′
1 , Y2) = e (Y2, Y ′
1 ) = 0 . It is easy to get that e (Y2, S′) = e
( ¯S2, S′)
=
e
( ¯S2, S2
)
+ e
( ¯S2, S′
1
)
. And the number of edges between ¯S2 and S′
1 should be less than the number of nodes in ¯S2, thus
e
( ¯S2, S′
1
)
≤ β. Using the similar reason mentioned above for S′
3 in the proof of Lemma 19 again, consider Y ′
3 can be
partitioned into p groups. It is obvious that p is less than β. For each group in Y ′
3, there exists only one kind of edges between
this group and S′. They are the edges that connect a node in the group and a node i n the same F as this group but belongs
to S′. Therefore, the sum of the number of the edges between this gr oup and S′ and the number of edges in each group
is less than the number of edges in each corresponding F . And since there is no edge between any two groups, we have:
e (Y ′
3 , Y ′
3 ) + e (Y ′
3 , S′) ≤ p ·c2 ≤ β ·c2. The number of edges between Y ′
3 and Y2 is also at most the number of nodes
contained in Y2, so we have e (Y ′
3 , Y2) = e (Y2, Y ′
3 ) ≤ β. Combined with all conditions above, we get:
x′
1 = e (Y ′
3 , Y ′
3) + e (Y ′
3 , S′) + e (Y2, Y2) + e (Y2, S′) + e (Y2, Y ′
3 ) + e (Y ′
3 , Y2) + x′
3
= e (Y ′
3 , Y ′
3) + e (Y ′
3 , S′) + e
( ¯S2, ¯S2
)
+ e
( ¯S2, S2
)
+ e
( ¯S2, S′
1
)
+ e (Y2, Y ′
3) + e (Y ′
3 , Y2) + x′
3
≤ e (Y ′
3 , Y ′
3) + e (Y ′
3 , S′) + x1 + β + e (Y2, Y ′
3 ) + e (Y ′
3 , Y2) + x′
3
≤
(
c2 + 3
)
β + x1 + x′
3
≤
(
c2 + 3
)
β + x1 + x′
1/2
From the deﬁnition of x′
2 and x2, we have x2 ≤ x′
2. Since G is a connected graph, we have β ≤ x1. Therefore,
x2 ≤ x′
2 ≤ x′
1 ≤ 2
(
c2 + 3
)
β + 2x1 ≤
(
2c2 + 8
)
x1.
Here, we need to use the condition that graph G has a O(log n) mixing time. Consider two different cases. In the ﬁrst
case x2 ≤ x1, which means that e (S2, S2) + e
(
S2, ¯S2
)
≤ | E|. Since the conductance being lower bounded by a positive
constant is a both sufﬁcient and necessary condition for O(log n) mixing time and graph G has a O(log n) mixing time, we
can get that e(S2,S2)
e(S2, ¯S2) is upper bounded by some positive constant directly. In the s econd case, x1 ≤ x2 ≤
(
2c2 + 8
)
x1. In
this case we have e
( ¯S2, ¯S2
)
+ e
( ¯S2, S2
)
≤ | E|. Using the same reason mentioned in the ﬁrst case, we have
e( ¯S2, ¯S2)
e(S2, ¯S2) is
upper bounded by some positive constant, say c1. Then x2/x1 =
e(S2,S2)+e(S2, ¯S2)
e( ¯S2, ¯S2)+e( ¯S2,S2) ≤ 2c2 + 8, and we get:
e (S2, S2)
e
(
S2, ¯S2
) ≤
(
2c2 + 7
)
+
(
2c2 + 8
) e
( ¯S2, ¯S2
)
e
(
S2, ¯S2
)
≤
(
2c2 + 7
)
+
(
2c2 + 8
)
c1
Finally, we have that e(S2,S2)
e(S2, ¯S2) is upper bounded by a positive constant in the second case. 2
31