Pacmann: Efficient Private Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search
Mingxun Zhou Giulia Fanti Elaine Shi
Carnegie Mellon University
Abstract
We propose a new private Approximate Nearest Neighbor (ANN) search scheme named
Pacmann that allows a client to perform ANN search in a vector database without revealing the
query vector to the server. Unlike prior constructions that run encrypted search on the server side,
Pacmann carefully offloads limited computation and storage to the client, no longer requiring
computationally-intensive cryptographic techniques. Specifically, clients run a graph-based ANN
search, where in each hop on the graph, the client privately retrieves local graph information from
the server. To make this efficient, we combine two ideas: (1) we adapt a leading graph-based ANN
search algorithm to be compatible with private information retrieval (PIR) for subgraph retrieval;
(2) we use a recent class of PIR schemes that trade offline preprocessing for online computational
efficiency. Pacmann achieves significantly better search quality than the state-of-the-art private
ANN search schemes, showing up to 2.5× better search accuracy on real-world datasets than
prior work and reaching 90% quality of a state-of-the-art non-private ANN algorithm. Moreover
on large datasets with up to 100 million vectors, Pacmann shows better scalability than prior
private ANN schemes with up to 62% reduction in computation time and 22% reduction in
overall latency.
1 Introduction
Today, most search systems require clients to send a plaintext query to the server, which performs
a search over the database and returns the most relevant document(s). This architecture poses a
serious privacy risk to users, whose search queries can leak privacy-sensitive information [ aol06, ?].
To this end, an important problem is that of private search: algorithms that allow a user to search
a database without revealing their query to the server in plaintext. To date, there have been
several proposed private search algorithms, which provide cryptographic privacy guarantees over
the user’s query [ HDCG+23, ABG+24, SSLD22].1 However, existing algorithms suffer from
poor tradeoffs between: (1) search quality and/or (2) efficiency. For example, consider
Tiptoe [ HDCG+23], the state-of-the-art private search algorithm with cryptographically strong
privacy guarantees. Tiptoe incurs a linear computation cost for the server per query; that is,
the server needs to at least scan through the entire database for each query. Although Tiptoe is
parallelizable, the linear computation cost may be a bottleneck for large-scale applications. At the
same time, Tiptoe’s search accuracy is limited. For example, it only achieves around 40% of the
non-private search accuracy in the MS-MARCO dataset.
Typical private search algorithms can be categorized by two main design choices: the search
algorithm and the privacy primitive. These two are closely intertwined: the search algorithm must
be chosen to be compatible with the privacy primitive, while also ensuring that information is not
leaked to the server and the search quality is not overly degraded. For example, Tiptoe makes
1Cryptographic privacy means that the server learns cryptographically negligible information about the query.
1

two design choices that limit its performance: (1) It uses a clustering-based approximate nearest
neighbor (ANN) algorithm that significantly limits the search quality. (2) Its privacy guarantees
are based on a preprocessed somewhat homomorphic encryption (SHE) scheme, which requires
significant computation linear in the dataset size.
1.1 Our Contribution
In this work, we present Pacmann (Privately ACcess More Approximate Nearest Neighbors), a
fully private nearest neighbor search algorithm that addresses the search quality-efficiency tradeoff.
We make the observation that the existing private search solutions fail to leverage the graph-
based ANN search algorithms [ MY18, JSDS+19, IM18] that have shown better quality-efficiency
tradeoffs compared to other families of ANN search algorithms (including Local-Sensitive Hashing
(LSH) [IM98, SSLD22] and clustering-based algorithms [ ABG+24, HDCG+23]). The core challenge
lies in the fact that graph-based ANN search algorithms are inherently iterative algorithms that
require multiple adaptive steps to find the results (See Figure 3). Implementing such algorithms
with generic privacy-preserving techniques like fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) [ Gen09] or
secure multi-party computation (SMPC) [CD +15] could incur high overheads.
Our key insight is that we can implement a graph-based ANN search algorithm by running the
iterative search locally on the client side, so that the computation can be done in plaintext and with
no privacy concerns. To achieve this without the client storing the whole graph structure, we let the
server store the graph structure and let the client dynamically fetch necessary information from the
server. We need to further use a cryptographic primitive named Private Information Retrieval (PIR)
to allow the client to retrieve the graph information from the server without revealing the access
pattern to the server. However, if we apply standard PIR schemes [ CGKS95] here, the computation
per graph access will be at least linear to the size of the whole graph 2, making the whole system
inefficient. We utilize a new sublinear PIR construction named Piano [ ZPSZ24] from the recently
popularized client-preprocessing PIR model [ ?] to address the efficiency issue. The Piano PIR
scheme allows the client to privately query the graph information with sublinear computation and
communication per-query costs after a one-time preprocessing phase with linear cost. Moreover,
the preprocessing phase can be shared for multiple ANN queries (each ANN query makes multiple
accesses to the graph), so the preprocessing cost can be amortized. Finally, we have to make further
customizations and optimizations to both the graph-based ANN search algorithm and the Piano
PIR to make the whole scheme efficient.
Contributions. We summarize our contributions as follows:
1. Algorithm Design. We present the design of Pacmann, which builds on a customized
graph-based ANN search algorithm and Piano PIR [ ZPSZ24]. In graph-based ANN search
algorithms [MY18, JSDS+19, IM18], each vertex in the graph represents a database vector and
is connected to multiple other vertices based on proximity in a vector (embedding ) space. Given
a query vector, the algorithms usually start from a given vertex and traverse the graph to find
ANNs. In each step of the traversal, the algorithms examine all connected vertices to the current
vertex and move to the next vertex that is closer to the query, until a stopping criterion is met.
To implement the graph traversal algorithm privately, Pacmann requires the client to locally
run graph traversal over carefully-selected subgraphs. To efficiently retrieve the appropriate
subgraph, we modify an existing, practically-efficient PIR scheme [ ZPSZ24] to handle batched
queries.
Figure 1 gives a high-level system overview of Pacmann.
2The lower bound is proved in [BIM00].
2

2. Empirical results. We empirically evaluate the performance ofPacmannin terms of search qual-
ity, query latency, communication, and storage costs. Our results show that Pacmann achieves
significantly better search quality than the clustering-based private ANN search algorithms used
by state-of-the-art Tiptoe [ HDCG+23] and Wally [ABG+24]. For example, our implementation
finds the most relevant result in around 63% of the queries on the MSMARCO dataset, compared
to 29% for clustering-based algorithms—a 2.1x improvement in search success rate. In the
100M SIFT dataset, our evaluation shows a 2.5x better recall@10 compared to Tiptoe. Figure
2 shows that Pacmann achieves 90% of the search quality of the leading non-private ANN
algorithm (NGT [IM18]), measured in mean reciprocal ranking (MRR) and recall. Pacmann
also has lower latency than linear computation cost algorithms, including Tiptoe [ HDCG+23]
and Preco [SSLD22] when the database is larger than 5M records in the LAN setting (i.e., when
the search engine and the database are co-located, so network round-trip latency is 5 ms), and
50M records in the WAN setting, respectively. For example, for a database with 100M records,
Tiptoe requires at least 4s of search latency, whereas Pacmann achieves 1.6s in the LAN setting
(a 60% reduction) and 3.1s in the WAN setting (a 22% reduction). Experimental details
can be found in Section 4.
1.2 Related Work
Private Information Retrieval (PIR) [ CGKS95, CG97, CMS99, Cha04, GR05] is a cryptographic
primitive that allows a user to retrieve information from a public database without revealing the
query to the service provider. On the practical side, most recent works that rely on Homomorphic
Encryption [MBFK16, AYA+21, MW22, HHCG+22] construct communication-efficient PIR schemes
with linear computation cost per query, resulting in large query latency for large databases. To
achieve sublinear computation cost per query, the “client-preprocessing PIR” model [ ?, SACM21,
CHK22, ?, LP22] introduces a preprocessing phase that allows the client to store sketched information
about the database. Early theoretical works already showed that this model can indeed achieve
sublinear (amortized) computation and communication cost per query. Towards concrete efficiency,
Server
𝑣!,𝑣",…,𝑣#
① Graph Building
Client
② PIR
Preprocessing 
Local 
Hints
③ ANN Queries
…… ④ PIR 
Graph
Accesses
Figure 1: The high-level overview of Pacmann. 1) The server builds a graph structure on the
database vectors. 2) The client and the server run the preprocessing protocol for the PIR scheme,
storing the local hint in the client’s storage. 3) The client makes ANN queries. 4) The client runs
the graph traversal algorithm locally, but uses the PIR scheme to access the graph information
remotely.
3

Tiptoe (simulated)
Non-private ANN
(a) Results on MS-MARCO dataset.
Tiptoe (simulated)
Tiptoe (simulated)
Non-private ANN (b) Results on SIFT-100M dataset.
Figure 2: Tradeoff between search quality and latency. “Linear Alg.” is an SIMD-optimized linear
algorithm that provides an lower bound on the latency of Tiptoe [ HDCG+23], the state-of-the-art
private search algorithm. As a safe lower bound, we do not include network latency for “Linear
Alg.”. “Cluster” is a clustering-based algorithm that provides an upper bound on the quality of
Tiptoe. The intersection of the two can be viewed as our (simulated) result for Tiptoe. We use
NGT, a state-of-the-art non-private ANN search algorithm [ IM18], to establish an upper bound on
the search quality. We plot Pacmann’s results in both the LAN (5ms RTT) and WAN (50ms RTT)
settings.
Zhou et al. [ ZPSZ24] and subsequent works [ GZS24, MIR23, NGH24] introduce practically efficient
preprocessing PIR schemes by making the following tradeoff: as long as the client can make a
streaming pass over the database in the preprocessing phase (with linear downloading cost but
sublinear storage cost), the PIR scheme can be constructed with minimal cryptographic assumptions
(from one-way functions) and can achieve the best known online query efficiency among all known
PIR schemes – taking only 10-100 milliseconds and a few kilobytes of communication cost per query
to a database with billions of records.
Most Private Information Retrieval (PIR) schemes are designed for the basic array-type access
where the client knows exactly the location of the record to query. There are some other works that
consider more advanced access pattern like key-value type of queries [ CGN97, PSY23, ?]. However,
ANN search usually requires a more sophisticated search algorithm and thus requires a more complex
access pattern.
Several existing works directly consider the private search problem. In addition to Tiptoe
[HDCG+23], Wally [ABG+24] improves the efficiency of Tiptoe by relaxing the privacy guarantee
to differential privacy, and relying on a large batch of anonymous queries to hide the privacy of an
individual query. Nonetheless, Tiptoe and Wally are based on a simple clustering-based algorithm
that partitions the vectors into roughly √n clusters, and only performs exhaustive search in one
particular cluster during the search phase. This simple algorithm is not competitive with the
state-of-the-art non-private ANN search algorithms. For example, when we evaluate this algorithm
on the MSMARCO dataset, its success rate to find the most relevant result is less than 30%, while a
non-private ANN search algorithm can have 75% of success rate or even higher. Preco [ SSLD22] is
another cryptographically private ANN search algorithm that utilizes a Locality Sensitive Hashing
(LSH) based search algorithm. Unfortunately, Preco makes a strong assumption that there must be
two non-colluding servers to store the database, which is not applicable in many practical scenarios.
4

Preco also requires a linear computation cost on both servers per query.
In an independent and concurrent work, Zhu et al.[ ZPZP24] also propose a privacy-preserving
ANN search algorithm under a different setting in that the database is provided by the client
and outsourced to the server while being encrypted. In that case, the server not only stores the
per-client encrypted database, but can also store per-client state to facilitate the search. Their
solution is based on the HNSW graph-based ANN indexing algorithm [ MY18] and Path Oblivious
RAM (ORAM) [ SvDS+18]. Our setting is different that we assume the database is public and
shared among all clients, while the server does not have any per-client storage.
2 Our Graph-based ANN Construction
As a starting point, we describe our ANN search algorithm construction without privacy con-
siderations. Our construction relies on a customized version of the graph-based ANN search
algorithm.
Figure 3: An illustration of the graph-based ANN search algorithm on a 2D space. The starting
vertex is located around the upper left part of the graph, and the query vector is shown as a blue
star. We highlight the path that the algorithm takes to reach the approximate nearest neighbor.
2.1 Preliminary: Generic Graph-based ANN Search Blueprint
Many popular graph-based ANN search algorithms such as NSW [ MPLK12], HNSW [ MY18],
DiskANN [JSDS+19], NGT [ IM18], and FINGER [ CCJ+23] follow the same technical blueprint:
the algorithm builds a graph based on the input vectors during the preprocessing phase, and then
performs a graph traversal algorithm to find the approximate nearest neighbors for a given query
vector. We provide a graphical illustration of this process in Figure 3 and a pseudocode description
in Figure 4.
Preprocessing. The preprocessing phase takes in n vectors DB ={v1,v 2,...,v n}∈ Rd×n from a
metric space and builds an indexing graph G where the n vertices represent the vectors. Different
algorithms may have different ways of selecting graph edges. One common approach (e.g., seen in
5

[JSDS+19]) is to connect each vertex vi to several nearest neighbors, i.e. vectors that are close to vi
in the metric space, as well as multiple distant neighbors to ensure the diversity of the neighbor list
[WXYW21]. Most recent ANN algorithms use more advanced structures on top of the indexing
graph (e.g. hierarchical structure in HNSW [ MY18] or auxiliary tree-structure in NGT [ IM18]) to
improve the search efficiency.
Query. Given a query vector q, the query algorithm performs a graph traversal algorithm on
the index graph G and outputs a vertex u∗ as the approximate nearest neighbor of q. The search
algorithm starts from an entry point ustart, often picked as the closest vertex to the centroid of DB.
We denote the set of neighbors of a node v as N(v). In each hop, the search algorithm greedily
moves from the current vertexv to its neighbor in N(v) that is the closest to the query vector q. The
algorithm terminates when the number of hops reaches a certain threshold or a local minimum is
met, i.e. none of the neighbors is closer to q than the current iterate. This can be easily extended to
outputting K approximate nearest neighbors by keeping track of the visited vertices and outputting
the top K nearest vertices in the visited set.
2.2 Our Graph Building Algorithm
To make graph-based ANN search private, Pacmann imposes two constraints: (1) We retain the
single graph structure, as opposed to adding auxiliary structures, as is done in the non-private
setting. This is done to facilitate the upgrade to the privacy-preserving version. (2) We enforce
regularity on the graph’s out-degree distribution. This prevents information leakage from the number
of neighbors accessed. These properties are not met by existing ANN algorithms, and we customize
the graph-building algorithm to meet them. We describe the high-level idea to build a regular C-out
directed indexing graph here and defer the formal description to Appendix B.
Start from an unbalanced graph. Our first observation is that we can take advantage of
existing ANN libraries to find nearby neighbors for all vectors in the database and treat them as
the candidate neighbors in the graph. Specifically, we find 2 C approximate nearest neighbors as
neighbor candidates for each vertex using an existing ANN library (e.g., NGT [ IM18]), then trim
the candidate list to C candidates with the sparse-neighborhood-graph (SNG) heuristic [ AM93].
Roughly, SNG sorts the candidates by their distance to the vertex and adds candidates to the
neighbor list one by one. It only adds a candidate if it is not too close to a neighbor already in
the list; this is done to ensure diversity (see Figure 7 for the details). We temporarily add directed
edges between each vertex and its C neighbor candidates in both directions to ensure the graph is
well-connected, i.e. so that each vertex has at least C inbound and C outbound directed edges.
Balancing the graph. We now have a graph that could be highly unbalanced in terms of the
degrees. We use a sampling technique to balance the graph. That is, for each directed edge ( x→y),
we keep it with a probability ofC/InboundDegree(y). This ensures that a vertex will have C inbound
edges in expectation after the sampling process. Then, we ensure that each vertex has exactly
C outbound edges. For those vertices with more than C outbound edges, we again use the SNG
heuristic to trim the outbounds to C. For those vertices with fewer than C outbound edges, we
connect them to vertices selected uniformly at random.
3 Pacmann: Private Graph-based ANN
We next describe how Pacmann protects query privacy over our customized graph-based ANN
search algorithm in Section 2. We start with a basic, inefficient construction, then show how
6

Pacmann optimizes it. Due to space constraints, we present the full construction of Pacmann
in Appendix C.
3.1 Inefficient Private Graph-based ANN Search with Classical PIR
As a strawman scheme, one could try to protect query privacy by implementing the search algorithm
with generic cryptographic primitives, such as fully homomorphic encryption [ Gen09]. and/or
multi-party computation [CD+15]. However, the search algorithm of graph-based ANN is inherently
iterative and adaptive in that during the graph traversal process, each hop’s vertex is dynamically
determined by both the previous hop’s vertex and also the query vector. Handling such (adaptive)
iteration is a common challenge in designing cryptographic protocols 3 as observed by previous
works [BFK+09, DdSGOTV22, CGG +24, GHAHJ22, HKP21]
Localized Searching. Our main idea is to perform the iterative graph traversal algorithm on the
client side, completely removing the privacy concern of performing iterative computation on the
server. Naively, this would require the client to store the whole indexing graph, which is impractical
in terms of storage cost. Instead, we let the client dynamically and privately retrieve subgraph
information from the server. Specifically, during search, the client can retrieve the neighbor list
N(vi) of the current vertex vi and also all vectors in the neighbor list from the server for each hop.
The client then computes the distances between the query vector q and all the neighbor vectors in
N(vi) locally, and chooses the closest neighbor within that set. This process is repeated until the
search terminates.
Protecting Retrieval Privacy with PIR. Even without directly observing the query vector, the
server can infer non-trivial information from the vertex indices retrieved by the client. For example,
if the server learns that the client retrieves many vertices whose underlying records represent
documents about food topics, the server can infer that the client is searching for information about
foods. Thus, the final challenge is how the client can retrieve the graph information (including the
neighbor lists and the vectors) without revealing which vertex it is retrieving.
We use a Private Information Retrieval (PIR) scheme for this purpose. Standard PIR [ CGKS95]
allows a client to retrieve one or multiple entries from a server-stored database of n entries without
revealing the indices of the entries to the server.
To integrate a PIR scheme into our private graph-based ANN search algorithm, we can run a
standard PIR protocol for a database storing all the vertex information in the graph, where each
entryi stores the vector vi and also the neighbor list N(i). Whenever the client needs to access
the graph, it issues a PIR query to retrieve the information privately. Notice that by merging the
vector information and also the neighbor information into a single database, we can finish each hop
in one round of communication.
Efficiency Issue. This construction runs into a major efficiency issue. It was formally proved by
Beimel, Ishai, and Malkin [ BIM00] that any PIR scheme requires Ω(n) computation cost if there
is no preprocessing, and if the server stores the database naively without encoding. Hence, if we
have a non-private graph-based ANN algorithm that proceeds for H hops, and each hop requires
the client to retrieve the information of C neighbors, the online computation cost of the scheme
3The standard FHE or MPC techniques are designed for the so-called circuit model, where the computation flow is
fixed and known in advance. Although the circuit model is indeed Turing-complete, it does not naturally support a
random-access memory and control flow operations like if-else conditions. In the context of graph-based ANN search,
we do need to (adaptively) read the graph from a random access memory, so the standard techniques are not directly
applicable.
7

will be Ω(HCn ), which is super-linear in n. This is worse than the prior linear-cost private ANN
schemes [HDCG+23, SSLD22].
3.2 Improving Efficiency with Preprocessing PIR
To address this efficiency limitation, we utilize a new paradigm of PIR schemes: client-side prepro-
cessing PIR [?]. Client-side preprocessing PIR achieves sublinear (amortized) query cost by allowing
a one-time preprocessing phase before the query phase in which the client will eventually store
useful information about the database. Specifically, we use a PIR scheme called Piano [ ZPSZ24]
that achieves practical efficiency for the single-server setting, matching our requirements. Given a
database with n entries, Piano achieves ˜O(√n) computation and communication per query with
˜O(√n) client storage after a one-time preprocessing phase that incurs linear computation and
communication costs. 4 Other alternatives of PIRs [ GZS24, MIR23] could also be used in our
construction for similar efficiency guarantees.
By applying the Piano PIR scheme to our private ANN construction, after a linear cost
preprocessing phase, each PIR query in the graph traversal algorithm will incur eO(√n) computation
and communication cost. Again, if we assume the search algorithm takes H hops and each hop
requires the client to retrieve the information of C neighbors, the overall running time of the scheme
will be eO(HC√n). As long as H·C iso(√n), the resulting scheme will have sublinear computation
cost, being more efficient than the prior private ANN schemes [HDCG +23, SSLD22].
Tradeoff and Practicality of Preprocessing. Despite significant online efficiency improvements,
the Piano PIR client must download the whole database (i.e., the indexing graph) in a streaming
fashion during the preprocessing phase. Here, streaming means that the client only stores a small
portion of the database to preprocess at a time, but the total amount of data the client has to
download is still the whole database. Therefore, our scheme is more suitable for a client with a
good network connection. In our evaluation where we assume a good network connection (1 Gbps),
the preprocessing phase takes around 5 minutes and 3 GB of client storage space for a database
with 100 million vectors, and the total download communication is around 60GB. An alternative
approach to reduce the preprocessing cost is to have a second server to preprocess the database
and directly provide the client with the preprocessed results, as suggested in many existing PIR
schemes [ZPSZ24, LP23, GZS24, KCG21].
3.3 Necessary Optimizations
In practice, we observe that the total number of visited vertices in the graph-based search algorithm
(that is, the product between max hop number H and the graph out-degree C) tends to be around
a few hundreds or thousands. We describe the necessary optimizations here and conduct an
ablation study in the evaluation section to show the effectiveness of these optimizations in Section 4.
Empirically, we observe that our optimizations reduce the concrete computation cost by 76%, and
the overall latency by nearly 70% (including the communication time).
Beam Search. The basic description of the graph-based ANN search algorithm Figure 4 traverses
the graph in a single path. In practice, we can explore m multiple paths in parallel. This approach
is used in other graph-based ANN algorithms [ JSDS+19]. Although doing so increases the query
cost per hop, we observe that beam search significantly reduces the total hops to reach a given
search quality, and is thus essential to reducing the overall latency.
4We use the notation eO(·) to hide polylogarithmic factors.
8

Fast Starting. Intuitively, if the starting vertex is already very close to the query vector q, we
can reach the approximate nearest neighbors with fewer hops. With fast starting, we let the client
store around O(√n) vertices’ information locally, and scan all these vertices to find those that are
already close to q to start the searching algorithm. We get this benefit for free, because Piano PIR
already requires the client to store ˜O(√n). vectors locally, which are selected uniformly at random.
Batched PIR Query. We observe that the PIR queries in each hop are parallel and can be handled
in a single batch. We can use a batching technique called partial batch retrieval (PBR) [ SSLD22] to
further improve the efficiency. We provide the details in Appendix C.2.
4 Evaluation
We evaluate Pacmann’s performance in terms of search quality and latency and compare it against
two baselines: a state-of-the-art private ANN search algorithm, Tiptoe [ HDCG+23], and a non-
private ANN search algorithm, NGT [ IM18]. Our evaluation results show that Pacmann achieves
better search quality with lower online query latency than Tiptoe in two real datasets, SIFT and
MS-MARCO. We provide more details in Appendix D, including a detailed breakdown of the
preprocessing, storage, and communication cost, and a discussion about quantization and the
alternative implementations.
4.1 Evaluation Setup
Our open-source implementation 5 uses Python for data preprocessing and Golang for the core
algorithm, including the graph ANN algorithm and the PIR scheme. Details of the implementation
are provided in Appendix D. The experiments are run on a single server with a 2.4GHz Intel Xeon
E5-2680 CPU and 256 GB of RAM. We evaluate the latency numbers on two simulated network
settings, the local area network (LAN) setting with 5ms round-trip-time (RTT) and the wide area
network (WAN) setting with 50ms RTT. Although our implementation supports multi-threading
optimization, we only use a single thread for all the experiments for a fair comparison.
Quality Metrics
Recall: Recall is the standard metric used in evaluating the quality of ANN algorithms [ ABF20].
For each query q, if the algorithm outputs a K-index set I, and the top K ground truth indices are
I∗, the recall@K is defined as: Recall@K = |I∗∩I|
K .
Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR): MRR is a standard quality metric for information retrieval sys-
tems [NRS+16]. Given a query q, assume there is a ground truth index i∗ such that DB[i∗] is the
most relevant entry. If the client outputs a list of indices that actually contains i∗ at the j-th rank
where j≤K, the reciprocal rank (denoted as RR@ K) score is 1/j. Otherwise, RR@K is 0. MRR
is defined as the average of RR@K over multiple queries.
Datasets
SIFT Dataset [ JTDA11] We use the first 100 million 128-dimensional vectors from the SIFT dataset
for our evaluation. We vary the database size by picking the first 2 million to 100 million vectors. We
test 1,000 top-10 queries in the query set for each configuration, and measure the average recall@10
(the top-10 ground truth nearest neighbors for each query are provided by the dataset).
MS-MARCO Dataset. [ NRS+16] The dataset contains 3.2 million text documents with more than
5000 test queries such that the top 1 relevant document is provided. We follow the same procedure
as in the Tiptoe paper [ HDCG+23] to process the dataset: 1) embed the documents and the queries
5https://github.com/wuwuz/Pacmann
9

into a 768-dimensional vector space with sentence-BERT [ RG19]; 2) reduce the dimensions to 192
with PCA. We follow the same quality evaluation metric as in the Tiptoe paper that we compute
the average MRR@100 for the first 1000 queries.
Baselines
Tiptoe (Simulated). We aim to compare our scheme against the state-of-the-art private ANN search
algorithm, Tiptoe [ HDCG+23]. Due to resource constraints, we were unable to run the full Tiptoe
system, in which the dominating cost comes from the clustering step that requires dozens of servers
running hundreds of core-hours as reported in the original paper. Hence, we simulated Tiptoe by
using two baselines as follows.
• Latency lower bound: Linear Algorithm. The Tiptoe algorithm computes n inner products per
query with preprocessed homomorphic encryption. As a latency lower bound, 6 we implement
a linear time algorithm that only computes the inner product between the query and each
database vector in plaintext. We optimized the implementation using AVX-512 instructions. The
throughput of this algorithm is approximately 11.9 GB/s, matching the memory bandwidth of the
machine. Finally, we do not include network latency for this baseline.
• Quality upper bound: Cluster. We replicate the clustering-based ranking algorithm used in Tiptoe
with full precision (32-bit) 7. We cluster the vectors into √n clusters offline. For each query, we
find the closest cluster centroid, and search for the nearest neighbor within the cluster.
NGT. NGT is one of the state-of-the-art non-private ANN search algorithms. We use the GoNGT
library [IM18]. We compare our scheme against NGT in terms of search quality.
4.2 Evaluation Results
Pacmann provides a favorable tradeoff between privacy, search quality, and latency.
We first measure the tradeoff between search quality and query latency. Specifically, by increasing
the number of rounds and the number of parallel queries in each round, our algorithm can achieve
higher search qualities at the cost of higher latency. The results are shown in Figure 2. We consider
a wide range of search quality requirements, where the lower bound is set by the cluster search
algorithm (replicating the Tiptoe search algorithm), and the upper bound is set by the non-private
ANN algorithm, NGT. We observe that our scheme provides a wide range of tradeoffs between
quality and latency, and can indeed achieve approximately 90% of NGT’s search quality. In the
SIFT-100M dataset, the advantage of our scheme is more significant, and even with 91% recall@10,
our scheme still has a lower latency than the linear algorithm baseline.
Scalability: Pacmann outperforms Tiptoe in latency and accuracy on datasets of at
least 2M-50M records. We next evaluate the scalability of our scheme by scaling the database
size up to 100 million vectors. We tune the parameters of our scheme to achieve 0.90 recall@10 for
each data point; that is, 9 out of 10 of the search results are indeed ground truth top-10 nearest
neighbors on average. The results are shown in Figure 5. We observe that in the LAN setting
where the computation time is dominant, our scheme beats the linear algorithm baseline when
the database size is larger than 5M. In the WAN setting where the communication time is more
dominant, our scheme beats the linear baseline when the database size is larger than 50M. We
6We compared the simulated online latency with the actual numbers reported in the original paper [ HDCG+23],
and the simulated latency is 8% less than the reported latency. See the detailed results in Appendix D.
7Our reimplementation of the clustering-based algorithm reached 0.15 MRR@100 on the MS-MARCO dataset,
better than the 0.13 MRR@100 reported in the Tiptoe paper [HDCG +23].
10

observe that the number of rounds to achieve a certain recall@10 increases roughly logarithmically
with the database size, and we know from the theoretical analysis that PIR cost scales with √n.
This suggests that the total latency of our scheme increases sublinearly with the database size.
Ablation study: Our optimizations give a 70% latency reduction. Finally, we conduct an
ablation study on the 10M subset of the SIFT dataset to evaluate the optimizations in Section 3.3:
1) Beam Search: The number of parallel paths in the beam search algorithm is increased from 1
to 3. 2) Fast Starting: The client starts the search by choosing the starting vertices from eO(√n)
preprocessed vertices. 3) Batched PIR: We enable the batch-mode PIR for each round of the search.
We compare four configurations in Figure 6, where we increase the number of rounds until the
quality reaches 0.90 recall@10. The beam search optimization significantly reduces the maximum
number of rounds needed to achieve the same quality by 3x. Adding the fast-start strategy furtuher
reduces the required rounds by 20%. When we enable the batch-mode PIR, we observe that the
computation time in each round is reduced by 4x, but, as we mentioned in Appendix C.1, we do
introduce some query failures, which we need to balance with the slight increase in the number of
rounds.
5 Conclusion
We present Pacmann, a new private ANN search scheme that allows clients to perform nearest
neighbor search queries over hundreds of millions of vectors while preserving the queries’ privacy.
Pacmann achieves significantly better search quality compared to the state-of-the-art private ANN
search schemes and has lower latency in large-scale datasets. Pacmann could be applied to a wide
range of applications including conventional search and retrieval-augmented generation.
Limitations. Pacmann inherits the drawbacks of the single-server preprocessing PIR schemes
and requires the client to download the whole indexing structure offline in a streaming manner.
Therefore, Pacmann will not be suitable for network-constrained scenarios. Pacmann also does
not naturally support dynamic updates to the database, which has been a challenging open problem
in the field of PIR. Finally, Pacmann is designed under the assumption that the database is public,
so we do not consider server-side privacy. We leave these questions as interesting future directions.
Acknowledgment
This work is in part supported by a grant from ONR, a grant from the DARPA SIEVE program under
a subcontract from SRI, a gift from Cisco, Samsung MSL, NSF awards under grant numbers 1705007,
2128519 and 2044679. In addition, this work is in part supported by NSF grant CCF-2338772,
as well as support from the Sloan Foundation, Intel, and Bosch. We thank Justin Zhang for his
contribution in the evaluations. We also thank Emma Munisamy for pointing out the configuration
and unit error in the MS-MARCO online communication entry of Table 1.
References
[ABF20] Martin Aum¨ uller, Erik Bernhardsson, and Alexander Faithfull. Ann-benchmarks:
A benchmarking tool for approximate nearest neighbor algorithms. Information
Systems, 87:101374, 2020.
11

[ABG+24] Hilal Asi, Fabian Boemer, Nicholas Genise, Muhammad Haris Mughees, Tabitha
Ogilvie, Rehan Rishi, Guy N Rothblum, Kunal Talwar, Karl Tarbe, Ruiyu Zhu,
et al. Scalable private search with wally. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.06761 , 2024.
[AM93] Sunil Arya and David M Mount. Approximate nearest neighbor queries in fixed
dimensions. In SODA, volume 93, pages 271–280. Citeseer, 1993.
[aol06] AOL search data release reveals a great deal. http://www.usatoday.com/tech/
columnist/andrewkantor/2006-08-17-aol-data_x.htm , 2006.
[AYA+21] Ishtiyaque Ahmad, Yuntian Yang, Divyakant Agrawal, Amr El Abbadi, and Trin-
abh Gupta. Addra: Metadata-private voice communication over fully untrusted
infrastructure. In 15th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and
Implementation, OSDI2021, July 14-16, 2021 , 2021.
[BFK+09] Mauro Barni, Pierluigi Failla, Vladimir Kolesnikov, Riccardo Lazzeretti, Ahmad-
Reza Sadeghi, and Thomas Schneider. Secure evaluation of private linear branch-
ing programs with medical applications. In Computer Security–ESORICS 2009:
14th European Symposium on Research in Computer Security, Saint-Malo, France,
September 21-23, 2009. Proceedings 14, pages 424–439. Springer, 2009.
[BIM00] Amos Beimel, Yuval Ishai, and Tal Malkin. Reducing the servers computation in
private information retrieval: Pir with preprocessing. In CRYPTO, pages 55–73,
2000.
[CCJ+23] Patrick Chen, Wei-Cheng Chang, Jyun-Yu Jiang, Hsiang-Fu Yu, Inderjit Dhillon,
and Cho-Jui Hsieh. Finger: Fast inference for graph-based approximate nearest
neighbor search. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2023, pages 3225–3235,
2023.
[CD+15] Ronald Cramer, Ivan Bjerre Damg˚ ard, et al.Secure multiparty computation. Cam-
bridge University Press, 2015.
[CG97] Benny Chor and Niv Gilboa. Computationally private information retrieval. In
STOC, 1997.
[CGG+24] Arka Rai Choudhuri, Sanjam Garg, Aarushi Goel, Sruthi Sekar, and Rohit Sinha.
Sublonk: Sublinear prover plonk. Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies,
2024.
[CGKS95] Benny Chor, Oded Goldreich, Eyal Kushilevitz, and Madhu Sudan. Private infor-
mation retrieval. In FOCS, 1995.
[CGN97] Benny Chor, Niv Gilboa, and Moni Naor. Private information retrieval by keywords.
1997.
[Cha04] Yan-Cheng Chang. Single database private information retrieval with logarithmic
communication. In ACISP, 2004.
[CHK22] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Alexandra Henzinger, and Dmitry Kogan. Single-server
private information retrieval with sublinear amortized time. In Eurocrypt, 2022.
12

[CMS99] Christian Cachin, Silvio Micali, and Markus Stadler. Computationally private
information retrieval with polylogarithmic communication. In EUROCRYPT, pages
402–414, 1999.
[DdSGOTV22] Cyprien Delpech de Saint Guilhem, Emmanuela Orsini, Titouan Tanguy, and Michiel
Verbauwhede. Efficient proof of ram programs from any public-coin zero-knowledge
system. In International Conference on Security and Cryptography for Networks ,
pages 615–638. Springer, 2022.
[DGM+24] Haya Diwan, Jinrui Gou, Cameron Musco, Christopher Musco, and Torsten Suel.
Navigable graphs for high-dimensional nearest neighbor search: Constructions and
limits. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.18680 , 2024.
[Gen09] Craig Gentry. Fully homomorphic encryption using ideal lattices. In Proceedings
of the forty-first annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing , pages 169–178,
2009.
[GHAHJ22] Aarushi Goel, Mathias Hall-Andersen, Aditya Hegde, and Abhishek Jain. Secure
multiparty computation with free branching. In Annual International Conference on
the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques , pages 397–426. Springer,
2022.
[GR05] Craig Gentry and Zulfikar Ramzan. Single-database private information retrieval
with constant communication rate. In ICALP, 2005.
[GZS24] Ashrujit Ghoshal, Mingxun Zhou, and Elaine Shi. Efficient pre-processing pir
without public-key cryptography. In Annual International Conference on the Theory
and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques , pages 210–240. Springer, 2024.
[HDCG+23] Alexandra Henzinger, Emma Dauterman, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, , and Nickolai
Zeldovich. Private web search with Tiptoe. In 29th ACM Symposium on Operating
Systems Principles (SOSP) , Koblenz, Germany, October 2023.
[HHCG+22] Alexandra Henzinger, Matthew M. Hong, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Sarah Meiklejohn,
and Vinod Vaikuntanathan. One server for the price of two: Simple and fast single-
server private information retrieval. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/949,
2022. https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/949.
[HKP21] David Heath, Vladimir Kolesnikov, and Stanislav Peceny. Masked triples: Amortiz-
ing multiplication triples across conditionals. In IACR International Conference on
Public-Key Cryptography, pages 319–348. Springer, 2021.
[IM98] Piotr Indyk and Rajeev Motwani. Approximate nearest neighbors: towards removing
the curse of dimensionality. STOC ’98. Association for Computing Machinery, 1998.
[IM18] Masajiro Iwasaki and Daisuke Miyazaki. Optimization of indexing based on k-
nearest neighbor graph for proximity search in high-dimensional data. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1810.07355, 2018.
[JSDS+19] Suhas Jayaram Subramanya, Fnu Devvrit, Harsha Vardhan Simhadri, Ravishankar
Krishnawamy, and Rohan Kadekodi. Diskann: Fast accurate billion-point nearest
neighbor search on a single node. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 32, 2019.
13

[JTDA11] Herv´ e J´ egou, Romain Tavenard, Matthijs Douze, and Laurent Amsaleg. Searching
in one billion vectors: re-rank with source coding. In 2011 IEEE International
Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) , pages 861–864.
IEEE, 2011.
[KCG21] Dmitry Kogan and Henry Corrigan-Gibbs. Private blocklist lookups with checklist. In
30th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 21) , pages 875–892. USENIX
Association, August 2021.
[Laa18] Thijs Laarhoven. Graph-based time-space trade-offs for approximate near neighbors.
In 34th International Symposium on Computational Geometry (SoCG 2018) . Schloss
Dagstuhl-Leibniz-Zentrum fuer Informatik, 2018.
[LMWY20] Kasper Green Larsen, Tal Malkin, Omri Weinstein, and Kevin Yeo. Lower bounds for
oblivious near-neighbor search. In Proceedings of the Fourteenth Annual ACM-SIAM
Symposium on Discrete Algorithms , pages 1116–1134. SIAM, 2020.
[LP22] Arthur Lazzaretti and Charalampos Papamanthou. Single server pir with sublinear
amortized time and polylogarithmic bandwidth. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2022/830, 2022. https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/830.
[LP23] Arthur Lazzaretti and Charalampos Papamanthou. Treepir: Sublinear-time and
polylog-bandwidth private information retrieval from ddh. In CRYPTO, 2023.
[MBFK16] Carlos Aguilar Melchor, Joris Barrier, Laurent Fousse, and Marc-Olivier Killijian.
Xpir: Private information retrieval for everyone. Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing
Technologies, pages 155–174, 2016.
[MIR23] Muhammad Haris Mughees, Sun I, and Ling Ren. Simple and practical amortized
sublinear private information retrieval. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/1072,
2023.
[MPLK12] Yury Malkov, Alexander Ponomarenko, Andrey Logvinov, and Vladimir Krylov.
Scalable distributed algorithm for approximate nearest neighbor search problem in
high dimensional general metric spaces. In Similarity Search and Applications: 5th
International Conference, SISAP 2012, Toronto, ON, Canada, August 9-10, 2012.
Proceedings 5, pages 132–147. Springer, 2012.
[MW22] Samir Jordan Menon and David J. Wu. Spiral: Fast, high-rate single-server PIR
via FHE composition. In IEEE S&P, 2022.
[MY18] Yu A Malkov and Dmitry A Yashunin. Efficient and robust approximate nearest
neighbor search using hierarchical navigable small world graphs. IEEE transactions
on pattern analysis and machine intelligence , 42(4):824–836, 2018.
[NGH24] Hoang-Dung Nguyen, Jorge Guajardo, and Thang Hoang. Client-efficient online-
offline private information retrieval. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2024/719,
2024.
[NRS+16] Tri Nguyen, Mir Rosenberg, Xia Song, Jianfeng Gao, Saurabh Tiwary, Rangan
Majumder, and Li Deng. Ms marco: A human-generated machine reading compre-
hension dataset. 2016.
14

[PS20] Liudmila Prokhorenkova and Aleksandr Shekhovtsov. Graph-based nearest neighbor
search: From practice to theory. In International Conference on Machine Learning ,
pages 7803–7813. PMLR, 2020.
[PSY23] Sarvar Patel, Joon Young Seo, and Kevin Yeo. {Don’t} be dense: Efficient keyword
{PIR} for sparse databases. In 32nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX
Security 23), pages 3853–3870, 2023.
[PY22] Giuseppe Persiano and Kevin Yeo. Limits of preprocessing for single-server PIR. In
SODA, pages 2522–2548. SIAM, 2022.
[RG19] Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. Sentence-BERT: Sentence embeddings using
Siamese BERT-networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference
on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) , 2019.
[SACM21] Elaine Shi, Waqar Aqeel, Balakrishnan Chandrasekaran, and Bruce Maggs. Punc-
turable pseudorandom sets and private information retrieval with near-optimal
online bandwidth and time. In CRYPTO, 2021.
[SSLD22] Sacha Servan-Schreiber, Simon Langowski, and Srinivas Devadas. Private ap-
proximate nearest neighbor search with sublinear communication. In 2022 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , pages 911–929. IEEE, 2022.
[SvDS+18] Emil Stefanov, Marten van Dijk, Elaine Shi, T.-H. Hubert Chan, Christopher W.
Fletcher, Ling Ren, Xiangyao Yu, and Srinivas Devadas. Path ORAM: an extremely
simple oblivious RAM protocol. J. ACM, 65(4):18:1–18:26, 2018.
[WXYW21] Mengzhao Wang, Xiaoliang Xu, Qiang Yue, and Yuxiang Wang. A comprehensive
survey and experimental comparison of graph-based approximate nearest neighbor
search. arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.12631 , 2021.
[ZPSZ24] Mingxun Zhou, Andrew Park, Elaine Shi, and Wenting Zheng. Piano: Extremely
simple, single-server pir with sublinear server computation. In IEEE S& P , 2024.
[ZPZP24] Jinhao Zhu, Liana Patel, Matei Zaharia, and Raluca Ada Popa. Compass: Encrypted
semantic search with high accuracy. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2024/1255,
2024. https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/1255.
15

A Formal Definitions
K-Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search (K-ANN). Assume a d-dimensional metric space
with a distance function ∆( ·,·). Given a database containing n vectors, denoted as DB =
{v1,v 2,...,v n}∈ Rd×n, and a query vector q∈ Rd such that a K-approximate nearest neigh-
bor search algorithm takes the database DB and the query vector q as input, and outputs an
index set I ={i1,...,i K} such that the distances between q and vi1,...,v iK are minimized, i.e.,
I ={i1,...,i K} is an approximation to the true K-nearest neighbors of q in DB. Specifically, we
use the recall or the mean reciprocal rank (MRR) to evaluate the quality of the approximation,
depending on the context.
Single Server (Preprocessing) Private K-ANN. A single-server preprocessing private ANN
protocol is run between a stateful client and a server. The protocol consists of two phases:
preprocessing phase and query phase.
1. Preprocessing: The preprocessing phase is run before the query phase and could involve the
communication between the client and the server. The server will receive the vector database
DB∈ Rd×n as input.
2. Queries: The query phase can include multiple (adaptive) queries from the client. Each query
is a vector q∈ Rd. The client and the server can have multiple rounds of communication for
each query. At the end, the client will output K indices where the corresponding vectors are
the K-approximate nearest neighbors of q in DB.
The privacy of a private ANN protocol requires that the server learns negligible information
about the query vector q. Formally, we use a simulation-based definition for the privacy of the
protocol, being consistent with prior work [HDCG +23].
Definition A.1. An ANN protocol is private if there exists a simulator Sim such that for any
probabilistic polynomial-time adversaryA acting as the server, the views of A in the following two
experiments are computationally indistinguishable w.r.t the security parameter λ:
• Real: the client interacts with A(1λ, DB) who acts as the server. In each query step, A may
adaptively choose the next query q for the client. The client is invoked with q as input.
• Ideal: the simulated client Sim(1λ,n ) interacts withA(1λ, DB) who acts as the server and A
still may adaptively choose the next query q for the client. However, the simulator is invoked
with only the knowledge of the size of the database, and without the information of the chosen
query q.
Throughout this paper, we assume the adversary is semi-honest. That is, the adversary follows
the server’s protocol specification but may try to learn additional information from the server’s
view. We leave the extension to malicious adversaries as future work.
B Details of Our Graph-based ANN Construction
We now provide a detailed description of our customized graph building algorithm in Figure 7.
16

C Detailed Construction Description
We include the full description of our algorithm in Figure 8. The algorithm further involves the
local caching optimization that the client will keep track of all queried vertices and avoid repetitive
queries.
C.1 Review on Piano PIR
We review the main idea of Pian PIR [ ZPSZ24] below. During the preprocessing phase, the client
will sample around √n logn random sets, each containing √n random indices in [ n]. For each
sampled set S, the client will store the random seed to generate S, and also the sum of the entires
indexed by S, denoted as sum(S) = P
i∈S DB[i]. The number of sets ensure the every entry in
DB is included in at least one set. Then, for each query x, the client will first find a local set S
that contains x. Since the client knows sum(S), if it can learn learn sum(S/{x}), it can recover
DB[x] by a simple subtraction. However, the client cannot query sum(S/{x}) by directly sending
those√n− 1 indices to the server, because the server will notice that all the indices it received
from the client are not x, which is a privacy issue. Piano fixes this issue by having the client
remember roughly ˜O(√n) random entries during the preprocessing phase, which are called the
“replcaments”. Then, instead of deleting x from S, the client will replace x with a replacement
entryy and query the server of sum(S/{x}∪{ y}) by sending all√n indices in this “edited” set to
the server. The server takes √n computation to compute the sum and returns the result to the
client. Since the client already knows the value of DB[y] in preprocessing, it can recover DB[x] by
calculating DB[x] = sum(S)− sum (S/{x}∪{ y}) + DB[y]. It is not hard to see this single-query
version of Piano is indeed private – the server only sees √n random indices that are independent of
the actual query index x. We omit the details of the multiple, adaptive-query version of Piano here
and refer the interested readers to the original paper [ZPSZ24].
Batched Piano PIR. We can use a technique called Partial Batched Retrieval to support multiple
queries in a single round of communication. The idea is to use a pseudorandom permutation to
permute the database upfront, and then partition the permuted database into B sub-databases
where each sub-database has n/B entries. On average, each sub-database will have Q/B queries
given a batch of Q queries (if we are using beam search, Q =mC). By doing this, each PIR query
will be issued to a sub-database of size n/B instead of the full database, saving the computation
and communication cost. To ensure privacy, the client has to issue a fixed number of queries for
each sub-database, say choosing the number T = 1.5Q/B. If fewer than T queries are in the
same sub-database, the client submits dummy queries. If more than T queries are in the same
sub-database, the client only submits the first T queries and discards the rest. For example, if we
have a batch size Q = 32 and set partition number B = 16 and T = 3, around 90% of the queries
in the batch will be successfully submitted in expectation. 8 Intuitively, if each vertex has 32
neighbors, our retrieval process can retrieve nearly 30 neighbors’ information with a single batched
query. Since the graph tends to be highly-connected, we observe that even with a mild query failure
probability, the algorithm still finds good results with more hops.
8We can approximate this process with randomly throwing Q balls into B bins, each with a maximum load of T ,
and calculate how many balls are discarded due to overflow in expectation. Given some fixed order of throwing the
balls, the probability that the i-th thrown ball is thrown into a fully-loaded bin is always Pr[Bin(i − 1, 1/B) ≥ T ].
Here, Bin(t, p) denotes the Binomial distribution – that is, the number of successful trials in t repeated, independent
trials where each trial has success probability of p. Then, the expected number of discarded balls (i.e., failed queries)
in total is PQ
i=1 Pr[Bin(i − 1, 1/B) ≥ T ].
17

In the algorithm description, we use the following syntax of to capture the Piano PIR functionality
with the batch-mode interface:
• hint← PIR.Prep(1λ, DB): given the security parameter 1 λ and the database DB, generate the
preprocessed PIR hint hint.
• msg← PIR.BatchQuery(hint, batch): given the PIR hint and a batch of query indices batch⊆
[n], the client generates the PIR query message msg.
• ans← PIR.BatchAnswer(DB, msg): upon receiving the batched PIR query message msg, the
server generates the batched answer ans.
• (β, hint′)← PIR.BatchRecover(hint, ans, batch): given the batched answer ans and the PIR
hint hint, recover the answers β and update the hint to hint′. Here, β is a set that includes all
the successful query indices and their corresponding answers. That is, β includes the tuples
(i, DB[i]) for all i∈ batch that are successfully queried.
C.2 Full Algorithm Description
Preprocessing. We use the same graph building algorithm as in Figure 7 to build a graph G from
the vectors DB. We then combine the neighbor list of each vertex with its vector to build a new
database DB′ ={(vi,N (i))}i∈[n]. Then, we randomly sample √n starting vertices u1
start,...,u
√n
start
from [n]. We then run the client-side preprocessing algorithm of Piano and let the client store the
hint hint. Further, we let the client download those starting vertices and their vectors and neighbor
lists from the server.
Query for K-approximate nearest neighbors of vector q∈ Rd. We generalize the search
algorithm to the following exploration process. The client can maintain two sets of vertices locally:
1) visited including all vertices that the client has already visited and stored their vectors and
neighbor lists, and 2) developed including all vertices that the client has already visited and retrieved
all their neighbors’ information. The client can maintain visited as a priority queue where the closer
vertices to q are at the front. Each time the client can pick multiple vertices from visited and fetch
their neighbors’ information in parallel. The client will move those picked vertices from visited to
developed, and add their neighbors to visited. We collect all those neighbors’ indices as batch and
issue a batched PIR query to the server. After receiving the batched answer, the client will recover
all the successful queries and push them to visited. The client also needs to update the local hint
hint after each query. We can repeat this process until the max hop number is reached. Finally, the
client can output the top K nearest vertices in visited and developed to the query vector q.
We summarize the main result in the following theorem.
Theorem C.1. Assume there exists one-way functions. Consider a database with n vectors in Rd.
Assuming a non-private graph-based ANN algorithm that preprocesses the database into a C-degree
graph, and searches for the approximate nearest neighbors with H hops in the graph. Then, by
applying the Piano PIR scheme, we can build a private ANN scheme with the following efficiency,
while achieving the same search quality as the non-private graph ANN:
• Preprocessing: ˜O(n(d +C)) client and server time and O(n(d +C)) communication;
• Query: ˜O(H·
√
Cn· (d +C)) client and server time and O(H·
√
Cn· (d +C)) communication.
• Storage: ˜O(√n· (d +C)) client storage and no additional server storage except the database.
18

Proof. The proof follows directly from the efficiency of the Piano PIR scheme when we consider a
database with n entries and each entry stores a vector in Rd and a neighbor list of size C. Moreover,
by applying the batched optimization we described in Section 3.3, we further reduce the computation
and communication cost of each PIR query by
√
C. The privacy proof is fairly straightforward, as
the server only sees multiple Piano PIR queries from the client. We can construct a simulator for
the Ideal experiment that simulates the server’s view by invoking the simulator of the Piano PIR
scheme for each query issued from the client. It follows from the privacy of the Piano PIR scheme
that the two views (the Real and the Ideal experiments) are computationally indistinguishable.
D Detailed Evaluation
D.1 Implementation Details
We describe our implementation of the two components below.
Graph-based ANN. The graph-based ANN algorithm can be divided into two parts: the graph
building part and the query part. The graph building part follows our description in Figure 7 and
sets the outbound number C = 32. The query part strictly follows our description in Figure 8.
Batched PIR. We implement a batch-mode version of the Piano PIR scheme [ ZPSZ24] by first
implementing the single-query version of the Piano PIR scheme with 128-bit security parameter,
then wrapping it with a batch-mode interface. The interface simply splits the whole database into
B partitions, and then runs a single-query Piano PIR scheme on each partition parallelly. Given
a batch of Q queries, we simply identify which partition each query belongs to, and then make
Q/B queries at each partition to ensure privacy. We choose B = 16 and Q = 32 in our evaluation.
Moreover, we implement the automatic maintenance for the client state. We keep track of the
consumed hints in the client’s space and automatically run another preprocessing phase when the
hints are exhausted.
D.2 Detailed Breakdown
Correction note. An earlier version of Table 1 reported the MS-MARCO online communication as
1.5 MB/query. The saved run reports 3150 KB/query, which rounds to 3.1 MB/query.
Finally, we provide a detailed breakdown of the costs of our scheme in Table 1. We pick two
representative parameter settings for the MS-MARCO dataset and the SIFT dataset, all achieving
90% of the quality of the state-of-the-art non-private ANN search algorithm. The graph building
time is significant for both datasets, taking 8.5 minutes for the MS-MARCO dataset and 343.5
minutes for the SIFT dataset. However, the graph building only happens once on the server
side. The PIR preprocessing is per-client, but it is relatively cheap, taking 9.1 seconds for the
MS-MARCO dataset and 271.6 seconds for the SIFT dataset. The most expensive part is that
during the preprocessing, the client has to scan over the whole index structure in a streaming
fashion, incurring large communication cost. For each online query, the latency and computation
time match our analysis in Section 4.2. Notably, the communication cost on the critical path is
relatively low, taking 3.1 MB for the MS-MARCO dataset and 14.4MB for the SIFT dataset. Notice
that the client has to update its local state after each query. We see that the maintenance time per
query is relatively cheap, but the communication cost is high, taking 60.1MB for the MS-MARCO
dataset and 399.4MB for the SIFT dataset. Theoretically, the client stores around eO(n) amount of
local state. Empirically, we see that the client stores 0.6GB of data for the MS-MARCO dataset
and 2.9GB of data for the SIFT dataset, and the scaling factor matches our theoretical analysis.
19

MS-MARCO (3M) SIFT (100M)
Preprocessing
Graph Buliding Time 8.5 min 343.5 min
PIR Preprocessing 9.1 s 271.6 s
Communication 2.7 GB 59.6 GB
Online per query
Latency 1.1 s 3.0 s
Computation Time 0.10 s 1.48 s
Online Communication 3.1 MB 14.4 MB
Rounds 20 32
Maintenance per query
Time 0.19 s 1.99 s
Communication 60.1 MB 399.4 MB
Client Storage 0.6 GB 2.9 GB
Table 1: Detailed breakdown of our results on different datasets in the WAN setting. We list the
preprocessing, online query, and maintenance costs. The graph-building cost happens only once.
The PIR preprocessing cost is incurred when each client joins the system. The online query cost is
the cost on the critical path of the search queries. Following each online query, there is a necessary
one-round maintenance to update the client state. We use 16 threads for the graph building and
one thread for other parts. The corresponding quality for the experiments is 0.266 MRR@100 for
MS-MARCO and 0.90 recall@10 for SIFT. The search width is m = 3 for MS-MARCO and m = 4
for SIFT. The number of exploration rounds is 20 for MS-MARCO and 32 for SIFT.
Discussion on quantization and comparing against Tiptoe. We noticed that the original
Tiptoe implementation uses 4-bit quantization for the vectors to further trade off the search quality
for the latency. In our evaluation, we use the full 32-bit precision for all the algorithms. Thus, the
quality of the clustering-based algorithm should be considered an upper bound for the actual Tiptoe
algorithm. For the latency, the “Linear Algorithm” baseline should be a good approximation of
the actual Tiptoe algorithm. As an example, if we extrapolate the reported numbers of Tiptoe’s
algorithm based on the Table 6 and Table 7 in the original paper [ HDCG+23] to the MS-MARCO
dataset, the latency will be around 0.27 seconds. 9
Alternative Implementations. As alternatives, one can indeed use other PIR schemes to
implement our graph-based ANN algorithm. As an example, using another recent single-server
PIR scheme, SimplePIR [ HHCG+22] (used also in Tiptoe [ HDCG+23]), comes with a tradeoff. In
the 10M SIFT dataset experiment, we can save the offline communication cost from roughly 6GB
to around 300MB, but this would increase the online latency from 1.5s to roughly 90s according
to our estimation as follows. We tested the throughput of the SimplePIR scheme on our server,
which is around 10 GB/s. Then, we are making in total 25 rounds of graph explorations where each
9The authors of Tiptoe reported the total core-second is 145 seconds for their experiment on a dataset with 360
million 192 dimensional vectors. The full Tiptoe system contains three parts: “preprocessing”, “ranking” and “URL”
where the “ranking” part corresponds to our ANN search experiment. According to Table 7 in the paper, it should
take about (1 .9/(6.5 + 1.9 + 0.6)) = 21% of the cost. Thus, an estimation of the time on a single-core for the 3.2M
size MS-MARCO dataset will be 145 × 21% × 3.2×106
360×106 ≈ 0.27s, which is close to our simulated “Linear Algorithm”
latency (0.25 seconds).
20

round having 96 parallel queries. The batching technique allows each individual query to be made
in a sub-database of 16 times smaller than the whole database (around 6GB). Therefore, the total
estimated time would be 25× 96× 6GB
16×10GB/s≈ 90s.
E Theoretical Implications
We focused on the practical aspects of our scheme in the main body. Although graph-based ANN
search has been empirically shown to be successful in practice, the theoretical understanding of the
graph-based ANN search is still very limited. Here, we provide some theoretical insights into the
graph-based private ANN search given the existing theoretical results.
Definition E.1 ((c,r )-Approximate Nearest Neighbor). Givenn vectors DB ={v1,v 2,...,v n}∈
Rd×n and a distance function ∆( ·,·), we say that an algorithm is a ( c,r )-approximate nearest
neighbor search algorithm if for any vector q∈ Rd such that the true minimal distance between q
and any vector in DB is at most r, the algorithm outputs an index i such that ∆(vi,q )≤c·r with
at least constant probability.
For the low-dimension case where d = Θ(logn), we refer the reader to Prokhorenkova and
Shekhovtsov [PS20] for the detailed discussion. Here, we will focus on the high-dimensional regime
(also known as the sparse data case) such that the dimension d = ω(logn), which is the most
common setting for ANN search (recall that most embedding spaces are at least 100-dimensional).
Two notable theoretical results can be leveraged to analyze the graph-based ANN search.
Laarhoven [Laa18] proves the following theorem:
Theorem E.2 (Laarhoven [Laa18]). Consider a database contains n independently random vectors
in the unit sphere in Sd−1 and the distance is measured by Euclidean distance. For c> 1, there exists
a (c,r )-graph-based ANN search algorithm with the O(n1+ρ+o(1)) space complexity and O(nρ+o(1))
query time complexity while taking only O(1) hops in the graph, where
ρ≥ c4
2c4− 2c2 + 1.
We call this setting the average case setting. Intuitively, we can think about nρ in the above
theorem roughly denoting the average degree of the graph. For example, if we aim to have a
2-approximation ANN, then ρ≈ 0.64. We see that with the approximation factor c getting worse,
limc→∞ρ(c) = 1
2.
On the other hand, Diwan et al. [ DGM+24] studied the problem of building a navigable graph.
On a high level, a navigable graph provides the guarantee for “in-distribution” queries for ANN
search, that is, when the query vector will be exactly some vector in the database. They showed the
following theorem:
Theorem E.3 ([DGM+24]). For any n vectors in Rd, it is possible to build a navigable graph
with average degree of at most 2
√
n lnn. Moreover, the “greedy-routing” strategy always succeeds in
finding the correct vector in the database with at most 2 hops.
The above two theorems provide the following theoretical insights: for the high-dimensional
regime, to achieve a strong guarantee on the ANN search, the average degree of the graph will be
roughly n
1
2 +o(1), and the query hop number will only be a constant. Therefore, if we use the same
PIR technique to make the graph-based ANN search private, the underlying graph-information
21

database is of size n
3
2 +o(1), where the total number of entries is n and each entry is of size n1/2+o(1).
It is interesting to see that this is not a typical setting of the PIR literature, because the entry
size is much larger than a constant. If we plug in the best parameters of the client-preprocessing
PIR [ZPSZ24, NGH24] into the Laarhoven’s algorithm, we will get the following result:
Theorem E.4. Assume the existence of one-way functions. For c> 1, there exists a (c,r )-graph-
based private ANN search algorithm for Euclidean distance in the average case setting (random
vectors on the unit sphere Sd−1) with the following properties:
• Preprocessing cost: ˜O(n1+ρ+o(1)) communication and computation cost;
• Query cost:
– ˜O(n1/2+ρ+o(1)) computation cost;
– ˜O(nρ+o(1)) communication cost;
• Storage cost:
– Client: ˜O(n1/2);
– Server: ˜O(n1+ρ+o(1)).
Here,
ρ≥ c4
2c4− 2c2 + 1.
Specifically, we need to use the new result in Nguyen et al. [ NGH24] for optimizing the client
storage. Notice that based on the existing client-specific preprocessing PIR lower bounds [ ?, PY22,
LMWY20], to privately access a data structure of size N, the product between the client storage
S and the online time T satisfies S×T = Ω(N). In this sense, the above theoretical result is
nearly tight in terms of the client storage and online query time if we follow the graph-based ANN
paradigm: the client storage is ˜O(n1/2) and the online query time is ˜O(n1/2+ρ+o(1)), while the
product matches the data structure size of n1+ρ+o(1).
Gap between Theory and Practice. Notably, the above theoretical results on graph-based ANN
algorithms are based on the analysis of “high-degree” graphs, where the average degree is Ω( √n),
and the query hop number is a small constant. In practice, we see a different combination: popular
graph-based ANN algorithm implementations usually pick a much smaller average degree, e.g., 32
or 64, while making the query hop number larger (e.g. scaling with the logarithm of the database
size). It remains an interesting open question whether there exists a strong theoretical result for
small-degree graphs with a search process invoking a large number of hops.
22

Figure 4: Description of the graph based ANN search algorithm including the optional optimizations.
The pseudocode can be read in the following two ways: 1) the non-highlighted part describes the
generic graph-based ANN search algorithm; 2) the full description, including the optimizations we
introduced in Section 3.3, describes our customized version of the algorithm. In the non-private
setting, the algorithm is run on the server. In the private setting, the client will run the query
algorithm locally, and use Batched Piano PIR to perform the information retrieval dynamically and
privately.
Graph-based ANN Search Algorithm
Preprocessing.
• Input: a set of n vectors DB ={v1,v 2,...,v n}∈ Rd×n.
• Output: a directed graph G with n vertices corresponding to the n vectors in DB, and entry
point(s) ustart, u1
start,...,u
√n
start.
1. G← ANN.BuildGraph(DB); // Description in Section 2.2
2. Let the closest vector to the centroid be the starting vertex ustart =
arg minu∈[n] ∆(vu, 1
n
P
j∈[n]vj).
3. Let the extra starting vertices be√n random vertices u1
start,...,u
√n
start sampled from [n].
Query.
• Parameters: H: max hop number; beam search width m: the number of parallel paths.
• Input: a query vector q∈ Rd.
• Output: an index u∗ such that vu∗ is recognized as an approximate nearest neighbor of q.
1. Let u =ustart.
2. Let u1,...,u m be the top m vertices in u1
start,...,u
√n
start that are closest to q.
3. For t = 1, 2,...,H :
• Update u as follows:
– Read the neighbor list N(u) from G and all vectors vj for j∈N(u) from DB.
– Let u′ = arg minj∈N (u) ∆(vj,q ).
– If ∆(u′,q )≤ ∆(u,q ), update u←u′.
• Similarly, update u1,...,u m.
4. Let u = arg minu′∈{u,u1,...,u√n} ∆(u′,q ).
5. Output u∗ =u.
23

Figure 5: Latency results on different database
sizes, sampled from the SIFT dataset. We tune
the parameters of our scheme to achieve 0.90
recall@10 for each data point; For each data
point, the total latency is the sum of the actual
computation time and the round-trip time of
the communication, multiplied by the number
of rounds. We plot both the LAN setting (5ms
rtt) and the WAN setting results (50ms rtt) in
this figure.
Figure 6: Ablation study on the 10M subset of
SIFT (WAN setting). Given a fixed configura-
tion, we increase the max number of rounds un-
til the quality reaches 0.90 recall@10. “No Opt”
means no optimizations are enabled. “Beam”
means the beam search optimization. “FS”
means the fast starting strategy. “Batch” means
we enable the batch-mode Piano PIR. Our full
implementation enables all the optimizations.
24

Our Graph Building Algorithm: ANN.BuildGraph.
Input: a set of n vectors DB ={v1,v 2,...,v n}∈ Rd×n and a target degree C.
Output: a directed regular C-out graph G with n vertices corresponding to the n vectors in
DB.
Subroutine: ANN.TrimNeighbors(u,L,C ). // Given a vertex u and a list of neighbors L,
return the picked C neighbors of u in L with the SNG heuristic.
1. Letw be the number of vertices in L and let (i1,...,i w) be the sorted indices in L according
to the distance to the vector vu (ascendingly).
2. Let Kept←∅ , Dscd←∅ .
3. For j =i1,...,i w:
(a) If ∃j′∈ Kept such that ∆(vj,vj′)< ∆(vj,vu), label j as discarded. // SNG heuristic
(b) If j is not discarded, insert j to Kept. Otherwise, insert j to Dscd.
(c) Terminate if |Kept| =C.
4. If |Kept|<C , insert the first C−| Kept| vertices in Dscd to Kept.
5. Return Kept.
Graph Building.
1. For each u∈ [n]:
(a) Let Nu be the set of 2C approximate neighbor indices to vu obtained by an underlying
ANN algorithm.
(b) Trim Nu to C neighbors: let Nu← ANN.TrimNeighbor(u,Nu,C ).
(c) For all u′∈N(u), add directed edges (u→u′) and edge (u′→u) to the graph G.
2. Fix InDegree(u) to be the in-degree of vertex u in the current graph G.
3. For each edge (i,j )∈G: keep the edge in G with probability C
InDegree(j).
4. For each u∈ [n]:
(a) Denote NG(u) be the set of outbounds of u in G.
(b) If |NG(u)|<C : add edges from u to random vertices in [n] until|NG(u)| =C.
(c) If |NG(u)|>C : let NG(u)← ANN.TrimNeighbor(u,NG(u),C ).
5. Output the graph G.
Figure 7: Description of our graph building algorithm ANN.BuildGraph.
25

Pacmann: Private Graph ANN with Preprocessing
Preprocessing.
• Server Side Preprocessing: Input: a set of n vectors DB ={v1,v 2,...,v n}∈ Rd×n.
– Runs G← BuildGraph(DB).
– Randomly sample√n starting vertices u1
start,...,u
√n
start from [n].
– Let DB′ ={(vi,N (i))}i∈[n] where N(i) is the neighbor list of i in G.
• Client Side Preprocessing:
– Stores hint← PIR.Prep(1λ, DB′). // Involving communication with the server.
– Downloads the representative indices u1
start,...,u
√n
start from the server.
– For allu∈{ui
start}i∈[√n], downloads DB′[u] = (vu,N (u)) from the server.
Query for K-approximate nearest neighbors of vector q∈ Rd.
• Parameters: max hop number H and beam search width m.
• Client Side Algorithm.
– Let visited ={ui
start}i∈[√n] be a priority queue where the closest vertices to q are at the
front.
– Let developed =∅.
– Fort = 1, 2,...,H :
∗ Let u1,...,u m be the top m indices in visited and move them from visited to developed.
∗ Let batch =∪i∈[m]N(ui) be the union of the neighbor lists of u1,...,u m.
∗ Remove those indices in batch that are already in visited∪ developed.
∗ Send msg← PIR.BatchQuery(hint, batch) to the server.
∗ Upon receiving ans from the server, run (β, hint′)← PIR.Recover(ans, hint). where β is a
set that includes all the successful query indices and their corresponding answers.
∗ For each successful query tuple (u, (vu,N (u)))∈β, add u to visited and store the vector
vu and neighbor list N(u) locally.
∗ Update the local PIR hint hint← hint′.
– Finally, for all u∈ visited∪ developed, compute the distance ∆(vu,q ). Output the k indices
with the smallest distances.
• Server Side Algorithm.
– Upon receiving a PIR batch query message msg from the client, run ans ←
PIR.BatchAnswer(DB′, msg) and return ans.
Figure 8: Our private ANN scheme with preprocessing.
26