Collaborative Content Moderation in the Fediverse
Haris Bin Zia
h.b.zia@qmul.ac.uk
QMUL
London, United Kingdom
Aravindh Raman
araram@cisco.com
Cisco ThousandEyes
London, United Kingdom
Ignacio Castro
i.castro@qmul.ac.uk
QMUL
London, United Kingdom
Gareth Tyson∗
gtyson@ust.hk
HKUST (GZ)
Guangzhou, China
ABSTRACT
The Fediverse, a group of interconnected servers providing a vari-
ety of interoperable services (e.g. micro-blogging in Mastodon) has
gained rapid popularity. This sudden growth, partly driven by Elon
Musk’s acquisition of Twitter, has created challenges for admin-
istrators though. This paper focuses on one particular challenge:
content moderation, e.g. the need to remove spam or hate speech.
While centralized platforms like Facebook and Twitter rely on au-
tomated tools for moderation, their dependence on massive labeled
datasets and specialized infrastructure renders them impractical
for decentralized, low-resource settings like the Fediverse. In this
work, we design and evaluate FedMod, a collaborative content mod-
eration system based on federated learning. Our system enables
servers to exchange parameters of partially trained local content
moderation models with similar servers, creating a federated model
shared among collaborating servers. FedMod demonstrates robust
performance on three different content moderation tasks: harm-
ful content detection, bot content detection, and content warning
assignment, achieving average per-server macro-F1 scores of 0.71,
0.73, and 0.58, respectively.
1 INTRODUCTION
The proliferation of social media has reshaped the landscape of
online communication, enabling individuals to connect, share, and
engage with a global audience. As these platforms have grown in
popularity, so has the challenge of content moderation [34]. Con-
tent moderation refers to the process of reviewing and regulating
user-generated content to uphold platform policies and community
standards. While traditional ‘centralized’ platforms like Twitter
and Facebook have long grappled with content moderation chal-
lenges [12, 15], the advent of the Fediverse — a decentralized net-
work of interconnected social media servers — has introduced a
unique set of new complexities to the content moderation land-
scape [3, 7].
The Fediverse is an ensemble of interconnected platform servers
used for micro-blogging (e.g. Mastodon [20] & Pleroma [29]), so-
cial networking (e.g. Diaspora [14]), and video sharing (e.g. Peer-
Tube [27]). Several unique features differentiate these platforms
from their centralized counterparts: ( i) They consist of indepen-
dently owned, operated, and moderated communities located on
independent lightweight servers known as “instances”; (ii) They
enable users to own their data — in fact, some users even choose to
∗Also with QMUL
fork their own instance to keep complete control over their data;
(iii) They allow users to interact locally (within instances) as well as
globally (across instances) via so-called federation — this involves
instances interconnecting in a peer-to-peer fashion, allowing their
users to communicate.
This decentralized architecture presents unique challenges for
content moderation. Typical centralized social networking plat-
forms rely on centrally trained large-scale models for automated
content moderation. For instance, Facebook relies on machine learn-
ing to identify 97% of the content that the platform removes for
violating its hate speech policies.1 This is infeasible in the Fediverse
though. Fediverse administrators are often volunteers with limited
time and computational resources who only control the data within
their specific instances. Thus, manual content moderation often
falls upon volunteers, who can quickly become overwhelmed [16].
We argue that addressing this issue is crucial to ensure the success
of Fediverse applications.
To overcome the above challenges, we explore the potential of
automated content moderation within the Fediverse. Our study
centers on the largest decentralized micro-blogging social network,
Mastodon. We collect data from 50 unique Mastodon instances, com-
prising 219,577 unique posts from 44,840 users. Our work examines
three key content moderation tasks. First, we investigate the poten-
tial for automated tools in identifying “toxic” or “harmful” material.
To create a ground truth dataset, we utilize the Perspective API [1]
to label all Mastodon posts, serving as a proxy for the actual labels
from instance administrators. However, a natural limitation of the
above is that it creates a single consistent label definition (as dic-
tated by Perspective). In a real scenario, each instance administrator
would have to label their own posts, potentially leading to subjec-
tivity in what is considered “toxic”. Thus, to better understand the
challenges of decentralized labeling, we study a second task using a
dataset of “content warning” posts instead. These are posts that are
self-labeled by their authors. These are not necessarily toxic, but
nevertheless may offend some users. Importantly, because they are
self-labeled, we can study the impact of inconsistent and subjective
training labels. The above two tasks focus on per-post issues. To
complement these tasks, we finally look at the detection of bot
accounts. Therefore, the third task attempts to automatically detect
bot posts, using a dataset of posts from self-declared Mastodon bot
accounts.
1https://about.fb.com/news/2021/02/update-on-our-progress-on-ai-and-hate-speech-
detection
arXiv:2501.05871v1  [cs.SI]  10 Jan 2025

Zia et al.
With these tasks in-mind, we first explore the potential of local
content moderation in each individual instance. We assess the abil-
ity of administrators to train their own local classification models
for automatically moderating content (§4). This involves either each
administrator annotating a set of their local instance’s posts (e.g.
for harmful content detection) or utilizing crowd-sourced labels
from the users of the instances ( e.g. for bot content detection or
content warning assignment) and training their own classifier. We
confirm that it is indeed possible to build such local models. The
local models achieve an average macro-F1 score of 0.63 for harmful
content detection and 0.69 for bot content detection. However, the
performance is quite poor for content warning assignment, with
a macro-F1 score of 0.53. Furthermore, the performance of these
local models varies significantly across instances. For example, for
harmful content detection, social.eiden.ch’s local model attains
a macro-F1 score of 0.76, whereas cryptodon.chat attains a score
of just 0.36. To make matters worse, these locally trained models
place a large burden on administrators who might need to label
thousands of posts. We argue that these problems emerge from a
missed opportunity: although instances share posts via federation,
they do not share content moderation knowledge.
To exploit this observation, we propose FedMod, a collaborative
content moderation system based on federated learning [ 19]. In
FedMod, instances exchange parameters of partially trained local
models to assist each other in a peer-to-peer fashion (§5). Col-
laborative moderation offers the advantage of implicitly sharing
knowledge across instances while preserving privacy by not re-
quiring administrators to disclose their local labeled posts. FedMod
operates a multi-step process. First, each instance utilizes its own
limited set of labeled posts to build a local content moderation
model (e.g. to classify harmful posts). Then, each instance searches
for peers that it considers sufficiently ‘similar’ to collaborate with.
Finally, the instances employ federated learning to exchange pa-
rameters of their local model between each other. Iteratively, this
process allows instances to co-train moderation models. We demon-
strate that compared to local models, FedMod improves automated
content moderation for all three tasks across all tested instances. It
improves harmful content detection by 12.69%, bot content detec-
tion by 5.79%, and content warning assignment by 9.43%, resulting
in average per-instance macro-F1 scores of 0.71, 0.73, and 0.58, re-
spectively. Although we test FedMod on three content moderation
tasks, our approach can also be applied to other classification tasks
(e.g. spam detection).
2 BACKGROUND & CHALLENGES
2.1 A Primer on the Fediverse
Fediverse. The Fediverse is a network of independently owned, op-
erated, moderated, and interconnected “Decentralised Web” servers
(known as “instances”). The architecture of the Fediverse is such
that no single entity operates the entire infrastructure. Instead,
instances collaborate (aka “federate”) in a peer-to-peer fashion to
collectively offer various types of services (e.g. micro-blogging, file
sharing, video streaming). This federation is performed using the
W3C ActivityPub [2] protocol, which allows instances to subscribe
to objects provided by each other. The nature of these objects varies
based on the specific application in question. For example, whereas
Mastodon (a micro-blogging platform) exchanges posts, PeerTube
(a video-sharing platform) exchanges video information. This al-
lows these instances to form a decentralized network of content
exchange.
Mastodon. The largest Fediverse platform is Mastodon,2 an open-
source micro-blogging service. Each unique Mastodon instance
works much like Twitter, allowing users to register new accounts
and share posts with their followers — equivalent to a tweet on
Twitter. Users can alsorepost others’ posts — equivalent to retweet
on Twitter. Instances can work in isolation, only allowing locally
registered users to follow each other. However, Mastodon instances
can also federate, whereby users registered on one instance can
follow users registered on another instance. This results in the
instance subscribing to posts performed on the remote instance,
such that they can be pushed across and presented to local users.
We refer to users registered on the same instance as local, and
users registered on different instances as remote.
2.2 Challenges of Content Moderation
Administration on Mastodon is decentralized: each instance ad-
ministrator(s) formulates and enforces their own local moderation
policy. This is a radical departure from prior centralized approaches
to moderation, where a single administrative entity has full control
(e.g. Twitter). Adding further complexity, the administrator of an
instance has limited control over the remote content. This is a fun-
damental difference with platforms such as Reddit: In Mastodon,
posts generated on one instance can easily spread to another in-
stance, even if those two instances have wildly different moderation
policies. A recent example of this occurred when the gab.social
instance joined the Fediverse, rapidly spreading hate speech to
other instances [11]. We argue that these challenges together with
the large scale of the Fediverse and the limited set of voluntary ad-
ministrators, make manual moderation infeasible. We believe that
addressing this problem is vital to ensure the success of Mastodon
and other Fediverse applications.
3 DATA & MOTIV ATION
3.1 Dataset
To underpin our work, we gather a large Mastodon dataset. Our
data collection process involves three main steps: (i) Discovering
a set of Mastodon instances; ( ii) Collecting the posts from each
instance; and (iii) Labeling posts for content moderation tasks. See
Appendix A.1 for our ethics discussion.
3.1.1 Discovering Instances. We crawl a list of Mastodon instances
from the Fediverse Observer,3 a comprehensive index that collects
statistics about Fediverse instances through both manual registra-
tion and automated web crawling. This yields a dataset of 11,516
unique instances, housing a total of 6,825,677 users, with an aver-
age of 1,162 users per instance. Recent research suggests that users
on Mastodon instances of different sizes (w.r.t. number of users)
exhibit distinct behaviors in terms of posting frequency [43]. Thus,
to capture a diverse range of users, we sample 25 random instances
with a user count above the average and another random 25 with a
2https://the-federation.info/#projects
3https://fediverse.observer

Collaborative Content Moderation in the Fediverse
user count below the average, totaling 50 instances for our analysis.
These 50 instances collectively have 2,437,140 registered users. We
limit ourselves to this set, as it would be infeasible to annotate posts
for all 11,516 servers.
3.1.2 Collecting Posts. Next, we retrieve all public posts from the
sampled instances using their Public Timeline API.4 This endpoint
returns all public posts on the instance, along with their associated
metadata, including number of likes, number of reports, language,
and timestamp. In total, we collect 219,577 unique posts authored
by 44,840 unique users between March 01, 2023, and June 21, 2023.
We report the number of posts on each instance in Figure 1. These
posts encompass 17 different languages, with English being the
most predominant at 75.29%, followed by German at 17.73%.
3.1.3 Labeling Posts. We next label Mastodon posts for three con-
tent moderation tasks:
Harmful Content Detection. We use the Perspective API [1] to
annotate the Mastodon posts as harmful vs. non-harmful.5 We ac-
knowledge that human labeling by real administrators would be
preferable [8], but this information is not available. Note, the Per-
spective API has undergone extensive evaluations across various
social media platforms [24, 25, 32] , demonstrating its effectiveness
in identifying harmful content. The Perspective API predicts the
perceived impact of each post on a conversation and provides a
score ranging from 0 to 1, with 1 being the most harmful (and 0
the least). This reflects six different emotional attributes, ranging
from TOXICITY to THREAT (for the definition of each attribute see
Appendix A.2). To capture a broad range of problematic content, we
regard harmful posts as those where their Perspective score for any
of the attributes is greater than 0.5 (and as non-harmful if it falls
below this threshold). This threshold (0.5) is a common choice in the
literature [24, 25, 32]. For completeness, we also repeat experiments
with a stricter 0.8 threshold [17], and find the results are similar
(see Appendix A.5). One limitation of this labeling methodology is
that each instance’s annotations are based on a consistent and stan-
dardized definition, as determined by the Perspective API. However,
in reality, administrators may make mistakes during the annota-
tion process or simply not exhibit consistent views. To address this
concern, we later introduce randomized noise into the labels on a
per-instance basis to account for discrepancies in annotations (§4).
Content Warning Assignment. Content warnings are special
(visible) tags that accompany posts that are judged to be sensitive
(e.g. NSFW). These are set by the post author themselves, and are
used to warn future viewers. Note, this is different to Perspective
labels that indicate toxicity (i.e. the presence of a warning does not
necessarily imply toxicity). Whether a post is marked sensitive or
not can be checked from the boolean “sensitive” parameter in its
metadata. We utilize these self-tagged, crowd-sourced labels for
content warning assignment. Overall, 11,074 unique posts are self-
tagged with content warnings by 3,905 unique users (post authors)
across 50 Mastodon instances.
Bot Content Detection. Mastodon users can declare themselves
as bots during profile creation, but not all do, making detection
4<instance.uri>/api/v1/timelines/public
5Refer to the Appendix A.3 for a discussion on why directly using the Perspective API
for content moderation in the Fediverse is not a sustainable solution.
Figure 1: Distribution of number of posts on each instance.
Note the log scale on the Y-axis.
challenging. This information is accessible in post metadata as a
boolean parameter indicating whether the post is made by a bot
account. We use these self-declared, crowd-sourced labels for bot
content detection. In our dataset, 42,566 unique posts are made by
3,371 unique bot accounts across 50 Mastodon instances.
3.2 Quantifying Need for Automated
Moderation
To motivate our work, we begin by validating the presence of
harmful content on Mastodon. Figure 1 shows the distribution of
harmful posts, the distribution of posts made by bot accounts, as
well as the distribution of posts tagged with content warnings,
across all instances.
Overall, 7.48% of all posts on Mastodon are classified as harmful,
with f-ckendehoelle.de having the highest proportion (19.43%)
when using a 0.5 threshold with the Perspective API. With a thresh-
old of 0.8, this value is 2.71%, and f-ckendehoelle.de still has
the highest percentage of harmful posts (7.92%). This underscores
the importance of automated content moderation because, in the
absence of built-in moderation tools, administrators are compelled
to manually moderate such content.
Furthermore, 19.38% of all posts are made by self-declared bot
accounts, with cryptodon.chat having the highest proportion
(45.65%). Despite 13 out of 50 instances in our dataset explicitly
disallowing bots in their content moderation policy (usually listed
on the instance’s about page), all instances contain posts made by
bot accounts. This further emphasizes the need for automated mod-
eration. Moreover, 5.04% of all posts are self-tagged with content
warnings, with kinky.business having the highest proportion
(20.16%). Posts tagged with content warnings serve to alert users
about potentially sensitive material, allowing them to make in-
formed decisions about their interaction with the content. However,
manual (voluntary) tagging by users can be inconsistent, expos-
ing users to unexpected or triggering material. This inconsistency
again underscores the necessity for automated tools that ensure
the consistent application of content warnings across instances.
4 POTENTIAL OF LOCAL MODELS
One intuitive solution is for each administrator to train their own
local content moderation model.

Zia et al.
Training & Testing Sets. To test the efficacy of this approach,
we first train local content moderation models separately for each
Mastodon instance using their respective labeled posts for each con-
tent moderation task. For each instance and each task, we perform
an 80:20 split of posts, stratified by their respective labels, between
the training and testing sets. However, considering the voluntary
nature of instance administrators, we do not utilize the entire train-
ing set — it would be infeasible for a volunteer administrator to
annotate hundreds or thousands of posts each day. Instead, we
adopt an online learning approach [39], using only a small number
of labeled posts at each training step. Specifically, we train models
for 8 steps using a randomly sampled set of 16 posts from the train-
ing set at each step. We thus train using a total of 128 labeled posts
per instance per task.6 We argue that this would be tractable even
for low-resource administrators.
Perturbed Training Set. Recall that we use consistent and stan-
dardized definition, as determined by the Perspective API, for the
harmful content detection task (see §3.1). However, in reality, in-
stance administrators may make mistakes when annotating posts.
Further, administrators may exhibit inconsistent views over time.
To assess the impact of such annotation inconsistency, we generate
a second training set for the harmful content detection task, which
we refer to as the perturbed training set. Here, we introduce noise
into the original training set by randomly flipping the labels of 25%
of the posts at each training step. Specifically, at each step, we flip
the labels of 4 out of 16 posts and repeat the training process. Note
that we still test using the same test set as before. Additionally, we
do not generate a perturbed training set for the bot content detec-
tion and content warning assignment tasks, as the labels for these
tasks are already crowd-sourced and contain inherent variation.
Classification Model. Using the training data, we then fine-tune
an (Encoder-only) Transformer Language Model for sequence clas-
sification, known for its data-efficient approach to text classifica-
tion [35]. Given the multilingual nature of Mastodon instances, we
use Multilingual BERT (mBERT) [13] (172M parameters) as the base
model due to its good cross-lingual knowledge transfers [28], and
also because it outperformed other similar sized models in our ini-
tial experiments (see Appendix A.4). The storage cost of mBERT is
714MB, making it suitable for deployment on Mastodon instances.
We use HuggingFace’s transformers library [40] for loading the
pre-trained mBERT model, and PyTorch [ 26] as the underlying
differentiation framework. Each model is trained for 2 epochs with
a learning rate of 5e−5 and a batch size of 16.7
Performance of Local Moderation Models. We now evaluate the
performance of these local content moderation models. Figure 2
shows the average macro-F1 scores for local content moderation
models across the Mastodon instances for each content moderation
task. To reflect the impact of varying annotation efforts, we plot
results after each training step, with 𝑁 denoting the number of
labeled posts used up to each step. We show results for both the
ground truth original training set and the perturbed training set
6Note, the choice of 8 training steps is arbitrary, and as with all machine learning
problems, we expect the performance to increase with an increase in the number of
training steps and the number of labeled posts. However, our objective here is to assess
the minimum number of posts a volunteer administrator must annotate to achieve
reasonably good performance.
7These hyper-parameters are suggested in the original BERT paper [13] for fine-tuning.
20 40 60 80 100 120
N
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80macro-F1
harmful content detection (original)
harmful content detection (perturbed)
bot content detection
content warning assignment
Figure 2: Average macro-F1 scores for local content modera-
tion models across all Mastodon instances after each training
step for each content moderation task.
with flipped labels. To estimate the statistical significance, we apply
the Wilcoxon test and list 𝑝-scores next to the results. Additionally,
we also plot bootstrapped 95% confidence intervals around the
average macro-F1.
As expected, we observe an increase in the average macro-F1
score as the number of labeled posts (𝑁 ) increases. The local models
trained for the bot content detection task achieve the best perfor-
mance, followed by the models trained for the harmful content
detection task. When 𝑁 = 128, the models trained for bot content
detection achieve an average macro-F1 score of 0.69, whereas the
models trained for harmful content detection using the original
training set achieve a modest average macro-F1 score of 0.63. How-
ever, the performance of these local models is quite poor for the con-
tent warning assignment task, achieving an average macro-F1 score
of 0.53 at 𝑁 = 128. This is likely due to significant inter-observer
variability, as different users perceive sensitivity differently, lead-
ing to uncertainty in labels for the content warning assignment
task. This issue is exacerbated when inspecting models for harmful
content detection built using the perturbed training set. Here, we
observe a notable decrease in the average macro-F1 score across all
instances at all values of 𝑁 compared to using the original training
set. At 𝑁 = 128, there is a 12.69% (𝑝 < 0.001) drop in the average
macro-F1 score when the perturbed training set is employed for
each instance.
This underscores the sensitivity of model performance to the
accuracy of labels. It also highlights the challenges inherent in local
content moderation, particularly in scenarios where there is sig-
nificant variability in labels due to annotation errors, inconsistent
views over time, or differences among administrators. Finding ways
to overcome these challenges is therefore vital. We argue these prob-
lems emerge from a missed opportunity. Instances share posts via
federation but do not share content moderation knowledge. Thus,
in the next section, we propose a system that can collaboratively
train moderation models, implicitly sharing content moderation
knowledge across the Fediverse.

Collaborative Content Moderation in the Fediverse
5 FedMod DESIGN
To improve automated content moderation and address the chal-
lenges associated with local content moderation, we next present
FedMod, a collaborative content moderation system where instances
work together via federated learning.
5.1 Overview of FedMod Design
FedMod is a federated learning based moderation system, in which
instances exchange information to collaboratively train their mod-
eration models. Here, we focus on classification models for harmful
content, bot content, and content warnings. However, we empha-
size that FedMod also works for other related classification tasks
(e.g. spam detection). Within FedMod, instances periodically ex-
change parameters of partially trained local content moderation
models to improve content moderation collectively. Our system
comprises three iterative steps:
Step 1 Model Initialization: Each instance initially uses its own
limited set of labeled posts to train a local content modera-
tion model.
Step 2 Peer Selection: Each instance then searches for 𝑘 suitable
peers (instances) based on its specific criteria.
Step 3 Parameter Exchange: The peer instances exchange pa-
rameters of their local models to build a federated commu-
nity model shared by the instance and its peers.
These steps are then re-executed at a configurable time interval,
𝑡, which by default is 24 hours. FedMod offers the advantage of im-
plicitly sharing linguistic patterns and annotations across instances
while safeguarding administrators’ privacy by not requiring them
to disclose their labeled posts. We detail the full process below.
Step 1: Model Initialization. First, each instance utilizes its lim-
ited set of labeled posts to train a local model for a specific modera-
tion task (e.g. bot content detection). We rely on the same model
setup as listed in §4. Specifically, we fine-tune mBERT [13] for se-
quence classification. We use HuggingFace’stransformers library [40]
for loading the pre-trained mBERT model, and PyTorch [26] as the
underlying differentiation framework.
Step 2: Peer Selection. Next, each instance must select other suit-
able peers to partner with. A clear challenge in the FedMod design
is identifying such peers. One obvious way for an instance is to ran-
domly pick 𝑘 other instances as its peers. However, our experience
suggests that pairing instances with similar content themes tends to
generate better results. Thus, we propose an alternative technique,
hashsim, to identify similar instances. In hashsim, each instance
periodically calculates the Jaccard similarity of its own trending
hashtags with all other instances and selects the most similar 𝑘
instances as its peers. We use the lightweight Trends API8 of each
instance to retrieve the weekly trending hashtag list. To motivate
this design, Figure 3 presents the hashsim similarity across the
instances as a heatmap. Indeed, we see that instance pairs exhibit
notable differences. We emphasize that FedMod’s modular design
allows for pluggable peer selection strategies or even the use of
multiple strategies in parallel.
Step 3: Parameter Exchange. Finally, each instance and its se-
lected peers exchange parameters of their partially trained local
8<instance.uri>/api/v1/trends/tags
mastodon.social
social.coletivos.org
toot.community
mstdn.science
kanoa.de
masto.pt
sigmoid.social
shakedown.social
social.a2.io
mstdn.social
schuppentier.social
bears.town
social.chinwag.org
mas.to
masto.ai
mstdn.party
hachyderm.io
lightborn.lansley.com
newsie.social
nerdculture.de
climatejustice.social
nrw.social
sueden.social
mastodon.gamedev.place
troet.cafe
socel.net
social.tchncs.de
ruhr.social
toot.gemeinschaffen.com
skynate.net
social.eiden.ch
extwitriates.com
wisskomm.social
biplus.social
social.euzilla.de
beppo.online
teslafans.social
aipi.social
f-ckendehoelle.de
cthonic.club
tacobelllabs.net
c64.social
chitter.xyz
woof.tech
kinky.business
social.netz.org
social.mkg20001.io
cubhub.social
mastodon.sketchwave.club
cryptodon.chat
mastodon.social
social.coletivos.org
toot.community
mstdn.science
kanoa.de
masto.pt
sigmoid.social
shakedown.social
social.a2.io
mstdn.social
schuppentier.social
bears.town
social.chinwag.org
mas.to
masto.ai
mstdn.party
hachyderm.io
lightborn.lansley.com
newsie.social
nerdculture.de
climatejustice.social
nrw.social
sueden.social
mastodon.gamedev.place
troet.cafe
socel.net
social.tchncs.de
ruhr.social
toot.gemeinschaffen.com
skynate.net
social.eiden.ch
extwitriates.com
wisskomm.social
biplus.social
social.euzilla.de
beppo.online
teslafans.social
aipi.social
f-ckendehoelle.de
cthonic.club
tacobelllabs.net
c64.social
chitter.xyz
woof.tech
kinky.business
social.netz.org
social.mkg20001.io
cubhub.social
mastodon.sketchwave.club
cryptodon.chat
0.525
0.550
0.575
0.600
0.625
0.650
0.675
0.700
Figure 3: Hashsim similarity across the instances.
content moderation models through federated learning [19]. Unlike
a traditional federated learning setup, there is no central entity in
our system to manage the parameter exchange and aggregation.
Instead, the Fediverse instances communicate in a peer-to-peer
fashion. After each local training step, each instance requests the
local model parameters from its selected𝑘 peers. Each instance then
locally employs FederatedAveraging [21] to create an aggregated
model. The process then repeats after 𝑡. We implement parame-
ter exchange using the Flower federated learning framework [6].
Flower provides the infrastructure to do federated learning in an
easy, scalable, and privacy-preserving manner. It also supports Dif-
ferential Privacy (DP) methods [4, 22] thus limiting an individual
instance’s influence on the aggregated model.
5.2 Scaling up Peer Selection
By default, for the hashsim peer selection, each instance selects
peers by calculating the Jaccard similarity of its trending hashtags
with all other instances. While this approach is straightforward, it
may lead to scalability issues. For example, just 10,000 instances
would require 100 million computations.
To tackle this challenge, we introduce the optional concept of
pre-sampling, which involves selecting a small subset of instances
for direct similarity calculation. This pre-sampling strategy is based
on the observation that instances with a high degree of federation
often exhibit high topical similarity. Thus, each instance locally
ranks all other instances it knows by the number of the other
instances’ users followed by its own users. It then picks the top 𝑖
instances. This estimates the amount of social engagement between
users of the two instances. Using this, each instance only computes
similarity with these 𝑖 instances. As before, we then select the top𝑘
most similar instances from this set of 𝑖 instances. While this may
potentially miss some similar instances, it significantly reduces the
number of computations and, consequently, the amount of data
exchanged between instances.

Zia et al.
20 40 60 80 100 120
N
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80macro-F1
collaboration with 2 other instances (random)
collaboration with 2 other instances (hashsim)
local
(a) harmful content detection
(original)
20 40 60 80 100 120
N
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80macro-F1
collaboration with 2 other instances (random)
collaboration with 2 other instances (hashsim)
local
(b) harmful content detection
(perturbed)
20 40 60 80 100 120
N
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80macro-F1
collaboration with 2 other instances (random)
collaboration with 2 other instances (hashsim)
local
(c) bot content detection
20 40 60 80 100 120
N
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80macro-F1
collaboration with 2 other instances (random)
collaboration with 2 other instances (hashsim)
local (d) content warning assignment
Figure 4: Average macro-F1 scores for FedMod based collaborative content moderation models across all Mastodon instances
after each training step, using both random and hashsim peer selection for each content moderation task. 𝑁 denotes the
number of labeled posts used up to each training step.
6 FedMod EV ALUATION
To evaluate FedMod, we first focus on its ability to improve upon
local content moderation. We then inspect the impact of our pre-
sampling strategy and the number of peers.
6.1 Overall Evaluation
Setup. We first evaluate FedMod with the number of peers (𝑘) set to
2, and then later analyze the impact of increasing𝑘 on performance
in §6.2. Initially, we use FedMod without the scalable pre-sampling
enabled. Figure 4 presents the average macro-F1 scores across all
Mastodon instances for FedMod using both random and hashsim
peer selection for each content moderation task.9 We plot results
after each training step, with 𝑁 denoting the number of labeled
posts used up to each step. For the sake of comparability, we also re-
plot the results of the local content moderation models, which serve
as our baseline (see §4). Furthermore, we present bootstrapped 95%
confidence intervals around the average macro-F1 scores and apply
the Wilcoxon test to assess the significance level of differences in
the performance.
Results. FedMod outperforms local content moderation using
either of the two peer selection strategies for all three content
moderation tasks. For instance, for harmful content detection at
𝑁 = 128, FedMod with hashsim achieves an average macro-F1
score that is 12.69% (𝑝 < 0.001) better than local content modera-
tion, while FedMod with random peer selection achieves a 9.52%
(𝑝 < 0.001) improvement. Interestingly, for content warning assign-
ment, where local content moderation performed poorly due to
significant variability in labels, FedMod with hashsim achieves an
average macro-F1 score that is 9.43% (𝑝 < 0.001) better than local
content moderation, while FedMod with random peer selection
achieves a 3.77% (𝑝 < 0.01) improvement. This demonstrates the
robustness of collaborative moderation in handling label variability.
Hashsim consistently demonstrates substantially better results com-
pared to random peer selection. For example, at 𝑁 = 128, FedMod
with hashsim reaches an average macro-F1 score of 0.73, whereas
FedMod with random peer selection achieves 0.70 (𝑝 < 0.05) for bot
content detection. This is likely attributed to hashsim’s tendency
9Note, in the case of random peer selection, each instance selects𝑘 = 2 other instances
10 times, each time with a different seed. We report the average results.
to find peers that share topical similarities, facilitating the sharing
of richer and more relevant linguistic patterns.
Similar performance patterns are observed when the perturbed
training sets are considered for harmful content detection, shown
in Figure 4b. At 𝑁 = 128, FedMod with hashsim significantly out-
performs local content moderation by 14.54% (𝑝 < 0.001) when a
perturbed training set is employed for each instance. This robust-
ness is due to the parameter exchange and averaging inherent in
FedMod, which mitigates the impact of individual administrators’
mistakes. This confirms that FedMod offers an advantage over local
content moderation, both in terms of performance and robustness.
For the remainder of the evaluation, we exclusively utilize FedMod
with hashsim due to its better performance compared to random
peer selection.
6.2 Impact of Number of Peers ( 𝑘)
Setup. Previously, we evaluated FedMod with 𝑘 = 2, i.e. each
instance selects two peers for federated parameter exchange. Next,
we analyze the performance impact of the number of peers by
varying the value of 𝑘. Specifically, we re-run the experiments
from §6.1, varying 𝑘 to 3 and 4, to see how well FedMod adapts to
gradual increases in the degree of collaboration. Additionally, we
run experiments with 𝑘 = 10 to assess the robustness of FedMod
under substantially larger collaborative scenarios.
Results. Figure 5 presents the macro-F1 scores of FedMod based
collaborative content moderation models for each content modera-
tion task across all Mastodon instances while varying numbers of
peers (𝑘). For all moderation tasks, we observe a gradual increase in
the average macro-F1 score with an increase in the number of peers.
However, the performance improvement is much more pronounced
when the number of labeled posts contributed by each instance
is small. For example, for harmful content detection at 𝑁 = 128,
increasing the number of peers from 2 to 10 results in an average
macro-F1 improvement of 4.22% (𝑝 < 0.001). In contrast, at 𝑁 = 16,
the same increase in the number of peers results in an average
macro-F1 improvement of 19.60% (𝑝 < 0.0001). This behavior aligns
with intuition: When each instance contributes a small number of
labeled posts, the global model, obtained by averaging parameters
shared by a large number of peers, captures more diverse patterns

Collaborative Content Moderation in the Fediverse
2 3 4 10
number of peers (k)
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8macro-F1
N = 16
N = 128
(a) harmful content detection (original)
2 3 4 10
number of peers (k)
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8macro-F1
N = 16
N = 128 (b) bot content detection
2 3 4 10
number of peers (k)
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8macro-F1
N = 16
N = 128 (c) content warning assignment
Figure 5: Macro-F1 scores of FedMod based collaborative moderation models for each content moderation task across all
Mastodon instances, while varying the number of peers ( 𝑘). 𝑁 denotes the number of labeled posts used up to each training
step.
than the one obtained with a small number of peers. Thus, we con-
clude that if the number of labeled posts per instance is small, it
is beneficial to engage in collaborative moderation with a larger
number of similar instances.
6.3 Impact of Scalable Pre-Sampling ( 𝑖)
Setup. Recall, we offer an optional scalable pre-sampling of in-
stances to accelerate the identification of suitable instances to peer
with. To assess the performance impact of our scalable pre-sampling
approach (§5.2), we re-evaluate FedMod using pre-sampling with
𝑖 ={5, 10} and compare the results with the prior approach of
calculating similarity with all instances.
Results. Figure 6 presents the average macro-F1 scores of FedMod
for each content moderation task across all instances with and
without pre-sampling. We plot results after each training step, with
𝑁 denoting the number of labeled posts used up to each step. We
observe only a slight degradation in average performance when
using the pre-sampling strategy compared to when peers are se-
lected from the entire pool of instances. For example, at 𝑁 = 128,
when peers are selected from the pre-sampled set of the top 5 most
federated instances, the average performance across all instances
decreases by only 2.81% (𝑝 = 0.11) for harmful content detection,
1.36% (𝑝 = 0.07) for bot content detection, and 1.72% ( 𝑝 = 0.73)
for content warning assignment. Furthermore, this comes with a
90% reduction in the number of hashtag similarity computations
(and associated data exchange). This can be attributed to the fact
that instances often federate with others who engage in discussions
about similar topics, thereby increasing the likelihood of finding
similar instances in the pre-sampled set. In fact, 56% of the instances
in our dataset have the most similar instance in their set of the top
5 most federated instances they pre-sampled.
6.4 Impact of Variation in Moderation Policies
Setup. Recall that different administrators may moderate their
instances differently (see §2.2). To evaluate the impact of these
variations on FedMod, we reconfigure our training and testing
sets for a subset of instances for harmful content detection task.10
For this subset, we use a higher Perspective threshold (0.8), and
only these severely harmful posts will be moderated. Specifically,
we randomly select 𝑥% of the instances where 𝑥 ={25, 50} and
change their threshold, such that their administrators only label a
post as harmful if its Perspective score exceeds 0.80. This creates
a subset of instances that are more tolerant of harmful posts than
the others that retain a threshold of 0.5. We then proceed to re-
evaluate FedMod with the same configurations as detailed in §6.1.
As a baseline comparison, we also rerun local content moderation
models for all instances with the same parameters as detailed in §4.
Results. Figure 7a plots the average macro-F1 scores for the sub-
set of instances that retain a threshold of 0.5. We present FedMod
results for both scenarios: (i) where x% of instances employ a 0.8
threshold; and (ii) when all instances utilize the same 0.5 threshold.
For reference, we also re-plot the results of local models when all
instances use the same Perspective API threshold. We observe only
a slight degradation in FedMod’s performance when a subset of in-
stances employ a different Perspective threshold compared to when
all instances use the same threshold. For example, in the former
scenario where 50% of instances use a 0.8 Perspective threshold,
at 𝑁 = 128, the average macro-F1 score for the remaining 50% of
instances that use a 0.5 threshold decreases by just 2.73% (𝑝 = 0.37).
It is also important to note that 68% of these 0.5 threshold instances
collaborate with at least one instance using a 0.8 threshold. We ar-
gue that FedMod maintains robust performance despite a subset of
instances using different thresholds because the type of moderated
content still overlaps significantly between instances.
Opposing Moderation Policies. The above emulates smaller varia-
tions in moderation policies. Therefore, we next test a hypothetical
scenario where instances have completely opposite moderation
policies. For a subset of x% of instances where 𝑥 ={25, 50}, we
completely flip their labels and annotate a post as harmful if the
score of any Perspective attribute is below 0.50 (and vice versa).
For the remaining instances, we retain the same definition. We
then re-evaluate FedMod and local content moderation, and report
10Note, we do not perform this evaluation for the bot content detection or content
warning assignment tasks, as the labels for these tasks are already crowd-sourced and
contain inherent variation.

Zia et al.
20 40 60 80 100 120
N
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80macro-F1
collaboration with 2 other instances
(hashsim with all 50 instances)
collaboration with 2 other instances
(hashsim with 10 most federated instances)
collaboration with 2 other instances
(hashsim with 5 most federated instances)
(a) harmful content detection (original)
20 40 60 80 100 120
N
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80macro-F1
collaboration with 2 other instances
(hashsim with all 50 instances)
collaboration with 2 other instances
(hashsim with 10 most federated instances)
collaboration with 2 other instances
(hashsim with 5 most federated instances) (b) bot content detection
20 40 60 80 100 120
N
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80macro-F1
collaboration with 2 other instances
(hashsim with all 50 instances)
collaboration with 2 other instances
(hashsim with 10 most federated instances)
collaboration with 2 other instances
(hashsim with 5 most federated instances) (c) content warning assignment
Figure 6: Average macro-F1 scores of FedMod based collaborative moderation models for each content moderation task across
all Mastodon instances after each training step with and without pre-sampling. 𝑁 denotes the number of labeled posts used up
to each training step.
20 40 60 80 100 120
N
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75macro-F1
FedMod - performance across 75% instances
when all instances use same threshold
FedMod - performance across 50% instances
when all instances use same threshold
local - performance across 75% instances
when all instances use same threshold
local - performance across 50% instances
when all instances use same threshold
FedMod - performance across 75% instances
when 25% instances use different threshold
FedMod - performance across 50% instances
when 50% instances use different threshold
(a)
20 40 60 80 100 120
N
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75macro-F1
FedMod - performance across 75% instances
when all instances have same policy
FedMod - performance across 50% instances
when all instances have same policy
local - performance across 75% instances
when all instances have same policy
local - performance across 50% instances
when all instances have same policy
FedMod - performance across 75% instances
when 25% instances have different policy
FedMod - performance across 50% instances
when 50% instances have different policy (b)
Figure 7: Average macro-F1 scores for local and FedMod based collaborative content moderation models across Mastodon
instances after each training step (a) with the varying Perspective API thresholds and (b) with the different moderation policies.
𝑁 denotes the number of labeled posts used up to each training step.
results in Figure 7b. This tests what happens when instances, who
have entirely opposite moderation policies, federate.
Unsurprisingly, we observe a significant drop in the performance
of FedMod when 25% of instances use an entirely opposite definition
of harmfulness. For example, at 𝑁 = 128, the average macro-F1
score for the remaining 75% of instances decreases by 8.21% (𝑝 <
0.01). That said, the average FedMod performance for these 75%
of instances is still 4.68% better than their local models (𝑝 < 0.05).
We observe a further decrease in FedMod performance when the
percentage of instances employing opposing policies increases to
50%, in which case it becomes less effective than local models.
This occurs because, when an instance collaborates with another
instance that has completely opposing moderation policies, the
resulting federated model fails to learn features that accurately
classify opposing views. Finding ways to overcome this issue forms
an interesting line of future work.
7 RELATED WORK
Moderation of user-generated harmful content, such as hate speech
[31], offensive language [30, 42], anti-Semitic [38], misogynous [23]
and Islamophobic [37] content has remained a key topic of research.
These works mostly attempt to build supervised machine learn-
ing classifiers for the automatic identification of harmful content.
Davidson et al. [10] train a multi-class logistic regression classi-
fier on a dataset of 25K labeled tweets to distinguish between hate
speech, offensive language, and neutral text. Badjatiya et al. [5] use
deep learning [18] methods to identify hate speech in text (using
16K annotated tweets). Wulczyn et al. [41] use 100K user labeled
comments from Wikipedia to identify the nature of online personal
attacks. A common aspect of these works is their reliance on a large
amount of labeled training data, which renders them impractical
for label-scarce scenarios such as the Fediverse.
There exist only a handful of works that discuss content mod-
eration in the Fediverse specifically. Anaobi et al. [16] highlight

Collaborative Content Moderation in the Fediverse
the challenges of instance administrators in the Fediverse and pro-
pose a tool to semi-automate policy generation [3]. Closest to our
work is [7], which proposed a system for content moderation on
Pleroma. In their system, instances share fully trained local content
moderation models with other instances. Their local models are
based on a logistic regression classifier with bag-of-words features,
requiring thousands of labeled samples to achieve reasonably good
performance. In contrast to FedMod, this places a significant man-
ual burden on administrators. Additionally, their system assumes
the existence of high-resource instances capable of training local
moderation models, which could then be shared with low-resource
instances lacking such resources. In contrast, FedMod facilitates
the exchange of parameters from partially trained local moderation
models among similar peers through federated learning, eliminat-
ing the need for reliance on high-resource instances.
8 CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK
In the Fediverse, individual instances define their own moderation
policies. This makes content moderation challenging, as it is diffi-
cult for individual administrators to train their own local models.
To address this problem, we propose FedMod, allowing instance
administrators to implement their own moderation policies and
collaborate with similar instances to enhance performance and re-
duce workload. FedMod demonstrates robust performance on three
different content moderation tasks: harmful content detection, bot
content detection, and content warning assignment, achieving aver-
age per-instance macro-F1 scores of 0.71, 0.73, and 0.58, respectively.
We also emphasize that our methodology is equally applicable to
other forms of content classification, such as spam detection.
While our design addresses some of the key challenges, other
interesting issues remain. Most notably, as demonstrated in §6.4,
FedMod’s performance degrades when instances with opposing
moderation policies collaborate. These experiments were purpose-
fully unrealistic, and in practice, it is unlikely that (m)any instances
would have extreme opposing policies like this. However, it is fea-
sible that malicious actors may purposefully do this to undermine
other instances. In the future, we plan to explore reputation schemes
and alternative peer selection strategies that could minimize such
risks. We are also keen to explore more longitudinal aspects of
collaborative moderation, e.g. how might models evolve over many
months of collaboration. Additionally, we hope to evaluate FedMod
by deploying it among instance administrators. Through this, we
hope to gain further evaluative insights into how FedMod can be
improved.
REFERENCES
[1] 2023. Perspective API. https://www.perspectiveapi.com/.
[2] ActivityPub. 2018. https://www.w3.org/TR/activitypub/.
[3] Ishaku Hassan Anaobi, Aravindh Raman, Ignacio Castro, Haris Bin Zia, Damilola
Ibosiola, and Gareth Tyson. 2023. Will Admins Cope? Decentralized Moderation
in the Fediverse. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2023 . 3109–3120.
[4] Galen Andrew, Om Thakkar, Brendan McMahan, and Swaroop Ramaswamy.
2021. Differentially private learning with adaptive clipping. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 34 (2021), 17455–17466.
[5] Pinkesh Badjatiya, Shashank Gupta, Manish Gupta, and Vasudeva Varma. 2017.
Deep learning for hate speech detection in tweets. In Proceedings of the 26th
international conference on World Wide Web companion . 759–760.
[6] Daniel J Beutel, Taner Topal, Akhil Mathur, Xinchi Qiu, Javier Fernandez-
Marques, Yan Gao, Lorenzo Sani, Kwing Hei Li, Titouan Parcollet, Pedro
Porto Buarque de Gusmão, et al . 2020. Flower: A friendly federated learning
research framework. arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.14390 (2020).
[7] Haris Bin Zia, Aravindh Raman, Ignacio Castro, Ishaku Hassan Anaobi, Emil-
iano De Cristofaro, Nishanth Sastry, and Gareth Tyson. 2022. Toxicity in the
decentralized web and the potential for model sharing. Proceedings of the ACM
on Measurement and Analysis of Computing Systems 6, 2 (2022), 1–25.
[8] Devin Coldewey. 2019. Racial bias observed in hate speech detection algorithm
from Google. https://techcrunch.com/2019/08/14/racial-bias-observed-in-hate-
speech-detection-algorithm-from-google/.
[9] Alexis Conneau, Kartikay Khandelwal, Naman Goyal, Vishrav Chaudhary, Guil-
laume Wenzek, Francisco Guzmán, Edouard Grave, Myle Ott, Luke Zettlemoyer,
and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. Unsupervised cross-lingual representation learning
at scale. arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.02116 (2019).
[10] Thomas Davidson, Dana Warmsley, Michael Macy, and Ingmar Weber. 2017.
Automated hate speech detection and the problem of offensive language. In
Proceedings of the international AAAI conference on web and social media , Vol. 11.
512–515.
[11] Decentralized social media platform Mastodon deals with an influx of Gab users.
2019. https://www.tsf.foundation/blog/decentralized-social-media-platform-
mastodon-deals-with-an-influx-of-gab.
[12] Fabio Del Vigna12, Andrea Cimino23, Felice Dell’Orletta, Marinella Petrocchi,
and Maurizio Tesconi. 2017. Hate me, hate me not: Hate speech detection on
facebook. In Proceedings of the first Italian conference on cybersecurity (ITASEC17) .
86–95.
[13] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. Bert:
Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805 (2018).
[14] Diaspora. 2010. https://diasporafoundation.org.
[15] Tarleton Gillespie. 2020. Content moderation, AI, and the question of scale. Big
Data & Society 7, 2 (2020), 2053951720943234.
[16] Anaobi Ishaku Hassan, Aravindh Raman, Ignacio Castro, Haris Bin Zia, Emiliano
De Cristofaro, Nishanth Sastry, and Gareth Tyson. 2021. Exploring content
moderation in the decentralised web: The pleroma case. InProceedings of the 17th
International Conference on emerging Networking EXperiments and Technologies .
328–335.
[17] Deepak Kumar, Jeff Hancock, Kurt Thomas, and Zakir Durumeric. 2023. Under-
standing the behaviors of toxic accounts on reddit. In Proceedings of the ACM
Web Conference 2023. 2797–2807.
[18] Yann LeCun, Yoshua Bengio, and Geoffrey Hinton. 2015. Deep learning. nature
521, 7553 (2015), 436–444.
[19] Tian Li, Anit Kumar Sahu, Ameet Talwalkar, and Virginia Smith. 2020. Federated
learning: Challenges, methods, and future directions. IEEE signal processing
magazine 37, 3 (2020), 50–60.
[20] Mastodon. 2016. https://joinmastodon.org.
[21] Brendan McMahan, Eider Moore, Daniel Ramage, Seth Hampson, and
Blaise Aguera y Arcas. 2017. Communication-efficient learning of deep net-
works from decentralized data. In Artificial intelligence and statistics . PMLR,
1273–1282.
[22] H Brendan McMahan, Daniel Ramage, Kunal Talwar, and Li Zhang. 2017.
Learning differentially private recurrent language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1710.06963 (2017).
[23] Endang Wahyu Pamungkas, Valerio Basile, and Viviana Patti. 2020. Misogyny de-
tection in twitter: a multilingual and cross-domain study. Information Processing
& Management 57, 6 (2020), 102360.
[24] Antonis Papasavva, Jeremy Blackburn, Gianluca Stringhini, Savvas Zannettou,
and Emiliano De Cristofaro. 2021. “Is it a qoincidence?”: An exploratory study
of QAnon on Voat. In Proceedings of the Web Conference 2021 . 460–471.
[25] Antonis Papasavva, Savvas Zannettou, Emiliano De Cristofaro, Gianluca Stringh-
ini, and Jeremy Blackburn. 2020. Raiders of the lost kek: 3.5 years of augmented
4chan posts from the politically incorrect board. InProceedings of the international
AAAI conference on web and social media , Vol. 14. 885–894.
[26] Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory
Chanan, Trevor Killeen, Zeming Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, et al. 2019.
Pytorch: An imperative style, high-performance deep learning library. Advances
in neural information processing systems 32 (2019).
[27] PeerTube. 2018. https://joinpeertube.org.
[28] Telmo Pires, Eva Schlinger, and Dan Garrette. 2019. How multilingual is multi-
lingual BERT? arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.01502 (2019).
[29] Pleroma. 2016. https://pleroma.social.
[30] Sara Rosenthal, Pepa Atanasova, Georgi Karadzhov, Marcos Zampieri, and
Preslav Nakov. 2020. SOLID: A large-scale semi-supervised dataset for offensive
language identification. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.14454 (2020).
[31] Paul Röttger, Debora Nozza, Federico Bianchi, and Dirk Hovy. 2022. Data-
Efficient Strategies for Expanding Hate Speech Detection into Under-Resourced
Languages. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.11359 (2022).
[32] Paul Röttger, Bertram Vidgen, Dong Nguyen, Zeerak Waseem, Helen Margetts,
and Janet B Pierrehumbert. 2020. HateCheck: Functional tests for hate speech
detection models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.15606 (2020).

Zia et al.
[33] Victor Sanh, Lysandre Debut, Julien Chaumond, and Thomas Wolf. 2019. Dis-
tilBERT, a distilled version of BERT: smaller, faster, cheaper and lighter.arXiv
preprint arXiv:1910.01108 (2019).
[34] Mohit Singhal, Chen Ling, Nihal Kumarswamy, Gianluca Stringhini, and Shirin
Nilizadeh. 2022. SoK: content moderation in social media, from guidelines to
enforcement, and research to practice. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.14855 (2022).
[35] Chi Sun, Xipeng Qiu, Yige Xu, and Xuanjing Huang. 2019. How to fine-tune
bert for text classification?. In Chinese Computational Linguistics: 18th China
National Conference, CCL 2019, Kunming, China, October 18–20, 2019, Proceedings
18. Springer, 194–206.
[36] Leanne Townsend and Claire Wallace. 2017. The ethics of using social media
data in research: A new framework. In The ethics of online research . Emerald
Publishing Limited, 189–207.
[37] Bertie Vidgen and Taha Yasseri. 2020. Detecting weak and strong Islamophobic
hate speech on social media. Journal of Information Technology & Politics 17, 1
(2020), 66–78.
[38] William Warner and Julia Hirschberg. 2012. Detecting hate speech on the world
wide web. In Proceedings of the second workshop on language in social media .
19–26.
[39] Wikipedia. 2023. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Online_machine_learning.
[40] Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement De-
langue, Anthony Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz,
et al. 2020. Transformers: State-of-the-art natural language processing. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2020 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing:
system demonstrations. 38–45.
[41] Ellery Wulczyn, Nithum Thain, and Lucas Dixon. 2017. Ex machina: Personal
attacks seen at scale. In Proceedings of the 26th international conference on world
wide web. 1391–1399.
[42] Marcos Zampieri, Shervin Malmasi, Preslav Nakov, Sara Rosenthal, Noura Farra,
and Ritesh Kumar. 2019. Predicting the type and target of offensive posts in
social media. arXiv preprint arXiv:1902.09666 (2019).
[43] Haris Bin Zia, Jiahui He, Aravindh Raman, Ignacio Castro, Nishanth Sastry, and
Gareth Tyson. 2023. Flocking to mastodon: Tracking the great twitter migration.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.14294 (2023).
A APPENDIX
A.1 Ethics
We exclusively collect publicly available posts, following well estab-
lished ethical procedures for social data [36]. We anonymize user
identifiers, and make no attempt to link activities to other accounts
or real-world identifies. We use the Perspective API solely to score
posts, and no data is stored on the Perspective API server (as we
set doNotStore to true). Data is stored securely within a univer-
sity silo, and no external access is given. We do not perform any
interactions with users and refrain from scraping full user profiles,
followers, or followees. We have obtained ethics approval from
the ethics committee at the author’s institution. We argue that our
work can help improve moderation practices in-the-wild, and has
key societal benefits.
A.2 Perspective API Attributes
Perspective is an API that uses machine learning to identify “harm-
ful” posts, making it easier to host better conversations online.
Perspective API is the product of a collaborative research effort
by Jigsaw and Google’s Counter Abuse Technology team. The API
predicts the perceived impact a post may have on a conversation by
evaluating that post across a range of emotional concepts, called at-
tributes. Table 1 presents the names and descriptions of Perspective
API attributes.
A.3 Direct use of Perspective API
While we initially utilize the Perspective API to label Mastodon
posts in offline mode to assess the technical feasibility of FedMod,
20 40 60 80 100 120
N
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65macro-F1
mBERT
DistilmBERT
XLM-R (base)
Figure 8: Average macro-F1 scores across all Mastodon in-
stances after each training step using different base language
models. 𝑁 denotes the number of labeled posts used up to
each training step.
using it directly for online content moderation within the Fediverse
presents notable challenges that FedMod avoids:
• Firstly, the Perspective API provides only a limited set of
attributes, potentially misaligning with the nuanced mod-
eration policies unique to individual instances. This limita-
tion hinders the precise enforcement of community-specific
guidelines, making it essential to have a more tailored and
adaptable solution like FedMod.
• Secondly, relying solely on the Perspective API would in-
crease the Fediverse’s dependence on a centralized service
managed by Jigsaw and Google’s Counter Abuse Technol-
ogy team. Many instance administrators would be unhappy
about having to upload all post data to a centralized ser-
vice. Thus, this contradicts the decentralized ethos of the
Fediverse, and it could pose concerns about potential over-
reliance and vulnerability to external factors beyond ad-
ministrator control.
• Thirdly, even though a limited use of the Perspective API
is currently provided free of charge, its Terms of Service
explicitly state that future tiers may incur charges. Many
Fediverse instances are crowdfunded, and these additional
costs would be very undesirable.
A.4 Initial Classifier Experiments
To select a base model for sequence classification, we initially ex-
perimented with multiple (Encoder-only) Multilingual Transformer
Language Models. Specifically, we fine-tuned mBERT [13] (172M pa-
rameters), DistilmBERT [33] (134M parameters) and XLM-R𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 [9]
(270M parameters) for harmful content detection using original
training set of each Mastodon instance. Figure 8 presents average
macro-F1 scores across all Mastodon instances after each training
step, with 𝑁 denoting the number of labeled posts used up to each
step. mBERT consistently outperformed both DistilmBERT and
XLM-R𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 . For instance, at 𝑁 = 128, mBERT achieves an average
macro-F1 score that is 8.62% (𝑝 < 0.001) better than DistilmBERT

Collaborative Content Moderation in the Fediverse
Table 1: Perspective API attributes and their descriptions.
Attribute Description
TOXICITY A rude, disrespectful, or unreasonable comment that is likely to make
people leave a discussion.
SEVERE_TOXICITY A very hateful, aggressive, disrespectful comment or otherwise very
likely to make a user leave a discussion.
IDENTITY_ATTACK Negative or hateful comments targeting someone because of their identity.
INSULT Insulting, inflammatory, or negative comment towards a person or
a group of people.
PROFANITY Swear words, curse words, or other obscene or profane language.
THREAT Describes an intention to inflict pain, injury, or violence against an
individual or group.
20 40 60 80 100 120
N
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7macro-F1
collaboration with 2 other instances (random)
collaboration with 2 other instances (hashsim)
local
(a) harmful content detection (original)
20 40 60 80 100 120
N
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7macro-F1
collaboration with 2 other instances (random)
collaboration with 2 other instances (hashsim)
local (b) harmful content detection (perturbed)
Figure 9: Average macro-F1 scores across all Mastodon instances for local content moderation and FedMod (using both random
and hashsim peer selection) for harmful content detection. 𝑁 denotes the number of labeled posts used up to each training step.
and 14.54% than XLM-R𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 (𝑝 < 0.001). Thus, we use mBERT for
our main body of experiments.
A.5 Additional Evaluation
Previously, we evaluated the harmful content detection on Mastodon
instances using 0.5 as a Perspective API threshold. For completeness,
we re-plot the results here with a higher threshold of 0.8.
Setup. We reconfigure our training and testing sets for all instances
using a higher Perspective API threshold of 0.80. Specifically, we
refer to a post as harmful if its score for any of the Perspective
attributes is greater than 0.8, and conversely, as non-harmful if it
falls below this threshold. We also regenerate the perturbed training
set to assess the impact of annotation inconsistency (see §3.1). We
then proceed to re-evaluate local content moderation and FedMod
with the same configurations as detailed in §4 and §6.1 respectively.
Results. Figure 9 shows the average macro-F1 scores across all
Mastodon instances for local content moderation and FedMod (us-
ing both random and hashsim peer selection) utilizing both the
original (Figure 9a) and perturbed (Figure 9b) training sets (now
with a Perspcetive threshold of 0.8). We plot results after each train-
ing step, with 𝑁 denoting the number of labeled posts used up
to each step. FedMod outperforms the local content moderation
using either of the two peer selection strategies. For instance, at
𝑁 = 128, FedMod with hashsim achieves an average macro-F1
score that is 21.81% (𝑝 < 0.001) better than local content modera-
tion, while FedMod with random peer selection achieves a 10.90%
(𝑝 < 0.001) improvement. Hashsim consistently demonstrates sub-
stantially better results compared to the random peer selection. At
𝑁 = 128, FedMod with hashsim reaches an average macro-F1 score
of 0.67, whereas FedMod with random peer selection achieves 0.61
(𝑝 < 0.05).
Similar performance patterns are observed when the perturbed
training sets are considered. At 𝑁 = 128, FedMod with hashsim
significantly outperforms local content moderation by 18.75% (𝑝 <
0.001) when a perturbed training set is employed for each instance.
These results emphasize that FedMod is an effective moderation
system irrespective of the labeling methodology.